He seized on her hand with an inarticulate murmur; but at the same moment a louder whistle
and the thunder of an approaching train reminded her of the impossibility of prolonging the
scene. She was ordinarily careless of appearances, but while she was Mrs. Amherst's guest she
did not care to be seen romantically loitering through the twilight with Stephen Wyant; and
she freed herself with a quick goodbye.

He gave her a last look, hesitating and imploring; then, in obedience to her gesture, he turned
away and strode off in the opposite direction.

As soon as he had left her she began to retrace her steps toward Lynbrook House; but instead
of traversing the whole length of the village she passed through a turnstile in the park fencing,
taking a more circuitous but quieter way home.

She walked on slowly through the dusk, wishing to give herself time to think over her conversation
with Wyant. Now that she was alone again, it seemed to her that the part she had played had
been both inconsistent and undignified. When she had written to Wyant that she would see him
on the morrow she had done so with the clear understanding that she was to give, at that meeting,
a definite answer to his offer of marriage; and during her talk with Bessy she had suddenly,
and, as it seemed to her, irrevocably, decided that the answer should be favourable. From the
first days of her acquaintance with Wyant she had appreciated his intelligence and had been
stimulated by his zeal for his work. He had remained only six months at Saint Elizabeth's,
and though his feeling for her had even then been manifest, it had been kept from expression
by the restraint of their professional relation, and by her absorption in her duties. It was
only when they had met again at Lynbrook that she had begun to feel a personal interest in
him. His youthful promise seemed nearer fulfillment than she had once thought possible, and
the contrast he presented to the young men in Bessy's train was really all in his favour. He
had gained in strength and steadiness without losing his high flashes of enthusiasm; and though,
even now, she was not in love with him, she began to feel that the union of their common interests
might create a life full and useful enough to preclude the possibility of vague repinings.
It would, at any rate, take her out of the stagnant circle of her present existence, and restore
her to contact with the fruitful energies of life.

All this had seemed quite clear when she wrote her letter; why, then, had she not made use
of their chance encounter to give her answer, instead of capriciously postponing it? The act
might have been that of a self-conscious girl in her teens; but neither inexperience nor coquetry
had prompted it. She had merely yielded to the spirit of resistance that Wyant's presence had
of late aroused in her; and the possibility that this resistance might be due to some sense
of his social defects, his lack of measure and facility, was so humiliating that for a moment
she stood still in the path, half-meaning to turn back and overtake him----

As she paused she was surprised to hear a man's step behind her; and the thought that it might
be Wyant's brought about another revulsion of feeling. What right had he to pursue her in this
way, to dog her steps even into the Lynbrook grounds? She was sure that his persistent attentions
had already attracted the notice of Bessy's visitors; and that he should thus force himself
on her after her dismissal seemed suddenly to make their whole relation ridiculous.

She turned about to rebuke him, and found herself face to face with John Amherst.

XVI

AMHERST, on leaving the train at Lynbrook, had paused in doubt on the empty platform. His return
was unexpected, and no carriage awaited him; but he caught the signal of the village cab-driver's
ready whip. Amherst, however, felt a sudden desire to postpone the moment of arrival, and consigning
his luggage to the cab he walked away toward the turnstile through which Justine had passed.
In thus taking the longest way home he was yielding another point to his reluctance. He knew
that at that hour his wife's visitors might still be assembled in the drawing-room, and he
wished to avoid making his unannounced entrance among them.

It was not till now that he felt the embarrassment of such an arrival. For some time past he
had known that he ought to go back to Lynbrook, but he had not known how to tell Bessy that
he was coming. Lack of habit made him inexpert in the art of easy transitions, and his inability
to bridge over awkward gaps had often put him at a disadvantage with his wife and her friends.
He had not yet learned the importance of observing the forms which made up the daily ceremonial
of their lives, and at present there was just enough soreness between himself and Bessy to
make such observances more difficult than usual.

There had been no open estrangement, but peace had been preserved at the cost of a slowly accumulated
tale of grievances on both sides. Since Amherst had won his point about the mills, the danger
he had foreseen had been realized: his victory at Westmore had been a defeat at Lynbrook. It
would be too crude to say that his wife had made him pay for her public concession by the private
disregard of his wishes; and if something of this sort had actually resulted, his sense of
fairness told him that it was merely the natural reaction of a soft nature against the momentary
strain of self-denial. At first he had been hardly aware of this consequence of his triumph.
The joy of being able to work his will at Westmore obscured all lesser emotions; and his sentiment
for Bessy had long since shrunk into one of those shallow pools of feeling which a sudden tide
might fill, but which could never again be the deep perennial spring from which his life was fed.

The need of remaining continuously at Hanaford while the first changes were making had increased
the strain of the situation. He had never expected that Bessy would stay there with him--had
perhaps, at heart, hardly wished it--and her plan of going to the Adirondacks with Miss Brent
seemed to him a satisfactory alternative to the European trip she had renounced. He felt as
relieved as though some one had taken off his hands the task of amusing a restless child, and
he let his wife go without suspecting that the moment might be a decisive one between them.
But it had not occurred to Bessy that any one could regard six weeks in the Adirondacks as
an adequate substitute for a summer abroad. She felt that her sacrifice deserved recognition,
and personal devotion was the only form of recognition which could satisfy her. She had expected
Amherst to join her at the camp, but he did not come; and when she went back to Long Island
she did not stop to see him, though Hanaford lay in her way. At the moment of her return the
work at the mills made it impossible for him to go to Lynbrook; and thus the weeks drifted
on without their meeting.

At last, urged by his mother, he had gone down to Long Island for a night; but though, on that
occasion, he had announced his coming, he found the house full, and the whole party except
Mr. Langhope in the act of starting off to a dinner in the neighbourhood. He was of course
expected to go too, and Bessy appeared hurt when he declared that he was too tired and preferred
to remain with Mr. Langhope; but she did not suggest staying at home herself, and drove off
in a mood of exuberant gaiety. Amherst had been too busy all his life to know what intricacies
of perversion a sentimental grievance may develop in an unoccupied mind, and he saw in Bessy's
act only a sign of indifference. The next day she complained to him of money difficulties,
as though surprised that her income had been suddenly cut down; and when he reminded her that
she had consented of her own will to this temporary reduction, she burst into tears and accused
him of caring only for Westmore.

He went away exasperated by her inconsequence, and bills from Lynbrook continued to pour in
on him. In the first days of their marriage, Bessy had put him in charge of her exchequer,
and she was too indolent--and at heart perhaps too sensitive--to ask him to renounce the charge.
It was clear to him, therefore, how little she was observing the spirit of their compact, and
his mind was tormented by the anticipation of financial embarrassments. He wrote her a letter
of gentle expostulation, but in her answer she ignored his remonstrance; and after that silence
fell between them.

The only way to break this silence was to return to Lynbrook; but now that he had come back,
he did not know what step to take next. Something in the atmosphere of his wife's existence
seemed to paralyze his will-power. When all about her spoke a language so different from his
own, how could he hope to make himself heard? He knew that her family and her immediate friends--Mr.
Langhope, the Gaineses, Mrs. Ansell and Mr. Tredegar--far from being means of communication,
were so many sentinels ready to raise the drawbridge and drop the portcullis at his approach.
They were all in league to stifle the incipient feelings he had roused in Bessy, to push her
back into the deadening routine of her former life, and the only voice that might conceivably
speak for him was Miss Brent's.

The "case" which, unexpectedly presented to her by one of the Hope Hospital physicians, had
detained Justine at Hanaford during the month of June, was the means of establishing a friendship
between herself and Amherst. They did not meet often, or get to know each other very well;
but he saw her occasionally at his mother's and at Mrs. Dressel's, and once he took her out
to Westmore, to consult her about the emergency hospital which was to be included among the
first improvements there. The expedition had been memorable to both; and when, some two weeks
later, Bessy wrote suggesting that she should take Miss Brent to the Adirondacks, it seemed
to Amherst that there was no one whom he would rather have his wife choose as her companion.

He was much too busy at the time to cultivate or analyze his feeling for Miss Brent; he rested
vaguely in the thought of her, as of the "nicest" girl he had ever met, and was frankly pleased
when accident brought them together; but the seeds left in both their minds by these chance
encounters had not yet begun to germinate.

So unperceived had been their gradual growth in intimacy that it was a surprise to Amherst
to find himself suddenly thinking of her as a means of communication with his wife; but the
thought gave him such encouragement that, when he saw Justine in the path before him he went
toward her with unusual eagerness.

Justine, on her part, felt an equal pleasure. She knew that Bessy did not expect her husband,
and that his prolonged absence had already been the cause of malicious comment at Lynbrook;
and she caught at the hope that this sudden return might betoken a more favourable turn of affairs.

"Oh, I am so glad to see you!" she exclaimed; and her tone had the effect of completing his
reassurance, his happy sense that she would understand and help him.

"I wanted to see you too," he began confusedly; then, conscious of the intimacy of the phrase,
he added with a slight laugh: "The fact is, I'm a culprit looking for a peace-maker."

"A culprit?"

"I've been so tied down at the mills that I didn't know, till yesterday, just when I could
break away; and in the hurry of leaving--" He paused again, checked by the impossibility of
uttering, to the girl before him, the little conventional falsehoods which formed the small
currency of Bessy's circle. Not that any scruple of probity restrained him: in trifling matters
he recognized the usefulness of such counters in the social game; but when he was with Justine
he always felt the obscure need of letting his real self be seen.

"I was stupid enough not to telegraph," he said, "and I am afraid my wife will think me negligent:
she often has to reproach me for my sins of omission, and this time I know they are many."

The girl received this in silence, less from embarrassment than from surprise; for she had
already guessed that it was as difficult for Amherst to touch, even lightly, on his private
affairs, as it was instinctive with his wife to pour her grievances into any willing ear. Justine's
first thought was one of gratification that he should have spoken, and of eagerness to facilitate
the saying of whatever he wished to say; but before she could answer he went on hastily: "The
fact is, Bessy does not know how complicated the work at Westmore is; and when I caught sight
of you just now I was thinking that you are the only one of her friends who has any technical
understanding of what I am trying to do, and who might consequently help her to see how hard
it is for me to take my hand from the plough."

Justine listened gravely, longing to cry out her comprehension and sympathy, but restrained
by the sense that the moment was a critical one, where impulse must not be trusted too far.
It was quite possible that a reaction of pride might cause Amherst to repent even so guarded
an avowal; and if that happened, he might never forgive her for having encouraged him to speak.
She looked up at him with a smile.

"Why not tell Bessy yourself? Your understanding of the case is a good deal clearer than mine
or any one else's."

"Oh, Bessy is tired of hearing about it from me; and besides--" She detected a shade of disappointment
in his tone, and was sorry she had said anything which might seem meant to discourage his confidence.
It occurred to her also that she had been insincere in not telling him at once that she had
already been let into the secret of his domestic differences: she felt the same craving as
Amherst for absolute openness between them.

"I know," she said, almost timidly, "that Bessy has not been quite content of late to have
you give so much time to Westmore, and perhaps she herself thinks it is because the work there
does not interest her; but I believe it is for a different reason."

"What reason?" he asked with a look of surprise.

"Because Westmore takes you from her; because she thinks you are happier there than at Lynbrook."

The day had faded so rapidly that it was no longer possible for the speakers to see each other's
faces, and it was easier for both to communicate through the veil of deepening obscurity.

"But, good heavens, she might be there with me--she's as much needed there as I am!" Amherst
exclaimed.

"Yes; but you must remember that it's against all her habits--and against the point of view
of every one about her--that she should lead that kind of life; and meanwhile----"

"Well?"

"Meanwhile, isn't it expedient that you should, a little more, lead hers?"

Always the same answer to his restless questioning! His mother's answer, the answer of Bessy
and her friends. He had somehow hoped that the girl at his side would find a different solution
to the problem, and his disappointment escaped in a bitter exclamation.

"But Westmore is my life--hers too, if she knew it! I can't desert it now without being as
false to her as to myself!"

As he spoke, he was overcome once more by the hopelessness of trying to put his case clearly.
How could Justine, for all her quickness and sympathy, understand a situation of which the
deeper elements were necessarily unknown to her? The advice she gave him was natural enough,
and on her lips it seemed not the counsel of a shallow expediency, but the plea of compassion
and understanding. But she knew nothing of the long struggle for mutual adjustment which had
culminated in this crisis between himself and his wife, and she could therefore not see that,
if he yielded his point, and gave up his work at Westmore, the concession would mean not renewal
but destruction. He felt that he should hate Bessy if he won her back at that price; and the
violence of his feeling frightened him. It was, in truth, as he had said, his own life that
he was fighting for. If he gave up Westmore he could not fall back on the futile activities
of Lynbrook, and fate might yet have some lower alternative to offer. He could trust to his
own strength and self-command while his energies had a normal outlet; but idleness and self-indulgence
might work in him like a dangerous drug.

Justine kept steadily to her point. "Westmore must be foremost to both of you in time; I don't
see how either of you can escape that. But the realization of it must come to Bessy through
you, and for that reason I think that you ought to be more patient--that you ought even to
put the question aside for a time and enter a little more into her life while she is learning
to understand yours." As she ended, it seemed to her that what she had said was trite and ineffectual,
and yet that it might have passed the measure of discretion; and, torn between two doubts,
she added hastily: "But you have done just that in coming back now--that is the real solution
of the problem."

While she spoke they passed out of the wood-path they had been following, and rounding a mass
of shrubbery emerged on the lawn below the terraces. The long bulk of the house lay above them,
dark against the lingering gleam of the west, with brightly-lit windows marking its irregular
outline; and the sight produced in Amherst and Justine a vague sense of helplessness and constraint.
It was impossible to speak with the same freedom, confronted by that substantial symbol of
the accepted order, which seemed to glare down on them in massive disdain of their puny efforts
to deflect the course of events: and Amherst, without reverting to her last words, asked after
a moment if his wife had many guests.

He listened in silence while Justine ran over the list of names--the Telfer girls and their
brother, Mason Winch and Westy Gaines, a cluster of young bridge-playing couples, and, among
the last arrivals, the Fenton Carburys and Ned Bowfort. The names were all familiar to Amherst--he
knew they represented the flower of week-end fashion; but he did not remember having seen the
Carburys among his wife's guests, and his mind paused on the name, seeking to regain some lost
impression connected with it. But it evoked, like the others, merely the confused sense of
stridency and unrest which he had brought away from his last Lynbrook visit; and this reminiscence
made him ask Miss Brent, when her list was ended, if she did not think that so continuous a
succession of visitors was too tiring for Bessy.

"I sometimes think it tires her more than she knows; but I hope she can be persuaded to take
better care of herself now that Mrs. Ansell has come back."

Amherst halted abruptly. "Is Mrs. Ansell here?"

"She arrived from Europe today."

"And Mr. Langhope too, I suppose?"

"Yes. He came from Newport about ten days ago."

Amherst checked himself, conscious that his questions betrayed the fact that he and his wife
no longer wrote to each other. The same thought appeared to strike Justine, and they walked
across the lawn in silence, hastening their steps involuntarily, as though to escape the oppressive
weight of the words which had passed between them. But Justine was unwilling that this fruitless
sense of oppression should be the final outcome of their talk; and when they reached the upper
terrace she paused and turned impulsively to Amherst. As she did so, the light from an uncurtained
window fell on her face, which glowed with the inner brightness kindled in it by moments of
strong feeling.

"I am sure of one thing--Bessy will be very, very glad that you have come," she exclaimed.

"Thank you," he answered.

Their hands met mechanically, and she turned away and entered the house.

XVII

BESSY had not seen her little girl that day, and filled with compunction by Justine's reminder,
she hastened directly to the school-room.

Of late, in certain moods, her maternal tenderness had been clouded by a sense of uneasiness
in the child's presence, for Cicely was the argument most effectually used by Mr. Langhope
and Mr. Tredegar in their efforts to check the triumph of Amherst's ideas. Bessy, still unable
to form an independent opinion on the harassing question of the mills, continued to oscillate
between the views of the contending parties, now regarding Cicely as an innocent victim and
herself as an unnatural mother, sacrificing her child's prospects to further Amherst's enterprise,
and now conscious of a vague animosity against the little girl, as the chief cause of the dissensions
which had so soon clouded the skies of her second marriage. Then again, there were moments
when Cicely's rosy bloom reminded her bitterly of the child she had lost--the son on whom her
ambitions had been fixed. It seemed to her now that if their boy had lived she might have kept
Amherst's love and have played a more important part in his life; and brooding on the tragedy
of the child's sickly existence she resented the contrast of Cicely's brightness and vigour.
The result was that in her treatment of her daughter she alternated between moments of exaggerated
devotion and days of neglect, never long happy away from the little girl, yet restless and
self-tormenting in her presence.

After her talk with Justine she felt more than usually disturbed, as she always did when her
unprofitable impulses of self-exposure had subsided. Bessy's mind was not made for introspection,
and chance had burdened it with unintelligible problems. She felt herself the victim of circumstances
to which her imagination attributed the deliberate malice that children ascribe to the furniture
they run against in playing. This helped her to cultivate a sense of helpless injury and to
disdain in advance the advice she was perpetually seeking. How absurd it was, for instance,
to suppose that a girl could understand the feelings of a married woman! Justine's suggestion
that she should humble herself still farther to Amherst merely left in Bessy's mind a rankling
sense of being misunderstood and undervalued by those to whom she turned in her extremity,
and she said to herself, in a phrase that sounded well in her own ears, that sooner or later
every woman must learn to fight her battles alone.

In this mood she entered the room where Cicely was at supper with her governess, and enveloped
the child in a whirl of passionate caresses. But Cicely had inherited the soberer Westmore
temper, and her mother's spasmodic endearments always had a repressive effect on her. She dutifully
returned a small fraction of Bessy's kisses, and then, with an air of relief, addressed herself
once more to her bread and marmalade.

"You don't seem a bit glad to see me!" Bessy exclaimed, while the little governess made a nervous
pretence of being greatly amused at this prodigious paradox, and Cicely, setting down her silver
mug, asked judicially: "Why should I be gladder than other days? It isn't a birthday."

This Cordelia-like answer cut Bessy to the quick. "You horrid child to say such a cruel thing
when you know I love you better and better every minute! But you don't care for me any longer
because Justine has taken you away from me!"

