     'By separation from other men, by loneliness, in continual silence
     shall the criminal be punished and benefited; on this account cell
     prisons are built. In Sweden there are many such, and new ones are
     building. I visited for the first time one in Marienstadt. The
     building lies in a beautiful landscape, close by the town, on a
     small stream of water, like a great villa, white and smiling, with
     window upon window. But one soon discovers that the stillness of
     the grave rests over the place; it seems as if no one dwelt here,
     or as if it were a dwelling forsaken during the plague. The gates
     of these walls are locked; but one opened and the jailor received
     us, with his bundle of keys in his hand. The court is empty and
     clean; even the grass between the paving stones is weeded out. We
     entered the 'reception room,' to which the prisoner is first taken;
     then the bath room, whither he is carried next. We ascend a flight
     of stairs, and find ourselves in a large hall, built the whole
     length and height of the building. Several galleries, one over
     another in the different stories, extend round the whole hall, and
     in the midst of the hall is the chancel, from which, on Sundays,
     the preacher delivers his sermon before an invisible audience. All
     the doors of the cells, which lead upon the galleries, are half
     opened, the prisoners hear the preacher, but they cannot see him,
     nor he them. The whole is a well-built machine for a pressure of
     the spirit. In the door of each cell there is a glass of the size
     of an eye; a valve covers it on the outside, and through this may
     the warden, unnoticed by the prisoners, observe all which is going
     on within; but he must move with soft step, noiselessly, for the
     hearing of the prisoner is wonderfully sharpened by solitude. I
     removed the valve from the glass very softly, and looked into the
     closed room--for a moment the glance of the prisoner met my eye. It
     is airy, pure, and clean within, but the window is so high that it
     is impossible to look out. The whole furniture consists of a high
     bench, made fast to a kind of table, a berth, which can be fastened
     with hooks to the ceiling, and around which there is a curtain.
     Several cells were opened to us. In one there was a young, very
     pretty maiden; she had lain down in her berth, but sprang out when
     the door was opened, and her first movement disturbed the berth,
     which it unclasped and rolled together. Upon the little table stood
     the water cask, and near it lay the remains of hard black bread,
     farther off the Bible, and a few spiritual songs. In another cell
     sat an infanticide; I saw her only through the small glass of the
     door, she had heard our steps, and our talking, but she sat still,
     cowered together in the corner by the door, as if she wished to
     conceal herself as much as she could; her back was bent, her head
     sunk almost into her lap, and over it her hands were folded. The
     unhappy one is very young, said they. In two different cells sat
     two brothers; they were paying the penalty of horse-stealing; one
     was yet a boy. In one cell sat a poor servant girl; they said she
     had no relations, and was poor, and they placed her here. I thought
     that I had misunderstood, repeated my question, Why is the maiden
     here? and received the same answer. Yet still I prefer to believe
     that I have misunderstood the remark. Without, in the clear, free
     sunlight, is the busy rush of day; here within the stillness of
     midnight always reigns. The spider, which spins along the wall, the
     swallow, which rarely flies near the vaulted window there above,
     even the tread of the stranger in the gallery, close by the door,
     is an occurrence in this mute, solitary life, where the mind of the
     prisoner revolves ever upon himself. One should read of the martyr
     cells of the holy inquisition, of the unfortunates of the Bagnio
     chained to each other, of the hot leaden chambers, and the dark wet
     abyss of the pit of Venice, and shudder over those pictures, in
     order to wander through the galleries of the cell prison with a
     calmer heart; here is light, here is air, here it is more human.
     Here, where the sunbeam throws in upon the prisoner its mild light,
     here will an illuminating beam from God Himself sink into the
     heart.'

Last we have

     'SALA.

     'Sweden's great king, Germany's deliverer, Gustavus Adolphus,
     caused Sala to be built. The small enclosed wood in the vicinity of
     the little town relates to us yet traditions of the youthful love
     of the hero king, of his rendezvous with Ebba Brahe. The silver
     shafts at Sala are the largest, the deepest and oldest in Sweden;
     they reach down a hundred and seventy fathoms, almost as deep as
     the Baltic. This is sufficient to awaken an interest in the little
     town; how does it look now? 'Sala,' says the guide book, 'lies in a
     valley, in a flat, and not very agreeable region.' And so it is
     truly; in that direction was nothing beautiful, and the highway led
     directly into the town, which has no character. It consists of a
     single long street with a knot and a pair of ends: the knot is the
     market; at the ends are two lanes which are attached to it. The
     long street--it may be called long in such a short town--was
     entirely empty. No one came out of the doors, no one looked out of
     the windows. It was with no small joy that I saw a man, at last, in
     a shop, in whose window hung a paper of pins, a red handkerchief,
     and two tea cans, a solitary, sedate apprentice, who leaned over
     the counter and looked out through the open house door. He
     certainly wrote that evening in his journal, if he kept one;
     'To-day a traveller went through the town; the dear God may know
     him, I do not!' The apprentice's face appeared to me to say all
     that, and he had an honest face.

     'In the tavern in which I entered, the same deathlike stillness
     reigned as upon the street. The door was indeed closed, but in the
     interior of the house all the doors stood wide open; the house cock
     stood in the midst of the sitting room, and crowed in order to give
     information that there was some one in the house. As to the rest,
     the house was entirely picturesque; it had an open balcony looking
     out upon the court--upon the street would have been too lively. The
     old sign hung over the door and creaked in the wind; it sounded as
     if it were alive. I saw it from my window; I saw also how the grass
     had overgrown the pavement of the street. The sun shone clear, but
     as it shines in the sitting room of the solitary old bachelor and
     upon the balsam in the pot of the old maid, it was still as on a
     Scottish Sunday, and it was Tuesday! I felt myself drawn to study
     Young's 'Night Thoughts.'

     'I looked down from the balcony into the neighbor's court; no
     living being was to be seen, but children had played there; they
     had built a little garden out of perfectly dry twigs; these had
     been stuck into the soft earth and watered; the potsherd, which
     served as watering pot, lay there still; the twigs represented
     roses and geranium. It had been a splendid garden--ah yes! We
     great, grown-up men play just so, build us a garden with love's
     roses and friendship's geranium, we water it with our tears and our
     heart's blood--and yet they are and remain dry twigs without roots.
     That was a gloomy thought--I felt it, and in order to transform the
     dry twigs into a blossoming Aaron's-staff, I went out. I went out
     into the ends and into the long thread, that is to say, into the
     little lanes and into the great street, and here was more life, as
     I might have expected; a herd of cows met me, who were coming home,
     or going away, I know not--they had no leader. The apprentice was
     still standing behind the counter; he bowed over it and greeted;
     the stranger took off his hat in return; these were the events of
     this day in Sala. Pardon me, thou still town, which Gustavus
     Adolphus built, where his young heart glowed in its first love, and
     where the silver rests in the deep shafts without the town, in a
     flat and not very pleasant country. I knew no one in this town, no
     one conducted me about, and so I went with the cows, and reached
     the graveyard; the cows went on, I climbed over the fence, and
     found myself between the graves, where the green grass grew, and
     nearly all the tombstones lay with inscriptions blotted out; only
     here and there, 'Anno' was still legible--what further? And who
     rests here? Everything on the stone was effaced, as the earth life
     of the one who was now earth within the earth. What drama have ye
     dead ones played here in the still Sala? The setting sun threw its
     beams over the graves, no leaf stirred on the tree; all was still,
     deathly still, in the town of the silver mines, which for the
     remembrance of the traveller is only a frame about the apprentice,
     who bowed greeting over the counter.'

Silence, stillness, quiet, solitude, loneliness, far-away-ness; hushed, calm, remote, out of
the world, un-newspapered, operaless, un-gossipped--was there ever a sketch which carried one
so far from the world as this of 'Sala'? That one shopboy--those going or coming cows--the
tombs, with wornout dates, every point of time vanishing--a living grave!

Contrast again, dear reader. Verily she is a goddess--and I adore her. Lo! she brings me back
again in Sala to the busy streets of this city, and the office, and the 'exchanges,' and the
rustling, bustling world, and the hotel dinner--to be in time for which I am even now writing
against time--and I am thankful for it all. Sala has cured me. That picture drives away longings.
Verily, he who lives in America, and in its great roaring current of events, needs but a glance
at Sala to feel that here he is on a darting stream ever hurrying more gloriously into the
world and away from the dull inanity--which the merest sibilant of aggravation will change
to insanity.

Reader, our Andersen is an artist--as most children know. But I am glad that he seldom gives
us anything which is so very much of a monochrome as Sala.

I wonder if Sala was the native and surnaming town of that other Sala whose initials are G.
A. S., and whose nature is 'ditto'? Did its dulness drive him to liveliness, even as an 'orthodox'
training is said to drive youth to dissipation? It may be so. The one hath a deep mine of silver--the
other contains inexhaustible mines of brass--and the name of the one as of the other, when
read in Hebrew-wise gives us 'alas!'

But I am wandering from the Northern pictures and fresh nature, and must close.

THE NEW RASSELAS.

... And Joseph, opening the drawing room, told me the postchaise was ready. My mother and my
sister threw themselves into my arms.

'It is still time,' said they, 'to abandon this scheme. Stay with us.'

'Mother, I am of noble birth, I am now twenty, I must have a name, I must be talked about in
the country, I must be getting a position in the army or at court.'

'Oh! but, Bernard, when you have gone, what will become of me?'

'You will be happy and proud when you hear of your son's success.'

'But if you are killed in some battle?'

'What of that! What's life? Who thinks about being killed? When one is twenty, and of noble
lineage, he thinks of nothing but glory. And, mother, in a few years you shall see me return
to your side a colonel, or a general, or with some rich office at Versailles.'

'Well, and what then?'

'Why, then I shall be respected and considered about here.'

'And then?'

'Why, everybody will take off their hat to me.'

'And then?'

'I'll marry Cousin Henrietta, and I'll marry off my young sisters, and we'll all live together
with you, tranquil and happy, on my estate in Brittany.'

'Now, why can't you commence this tranquil and happy life to-day? Has not your father left
us the largest fortune of all the province? Is there anywhere near us a richer estate or a
finer chateau than that of La Roche Bernard? Are you not considered by all your vassals? Doesn't
everybody take off their hat when they meet you? No, don't quit us, my dear child; remain with
your friends, with your sisters, with your old mother, whom, at your return, perhaps you may
not find alive; do not expend in vain glory, nor abridge by cares and annoyances of every kind,
days which at the best pass away too rapidly: life is a pleasant thing, my son, and Brittany's
sun is genial!'

As she said this, she showed me from the drawing-room windows the beautiful avenues of my park,
the old horse-chestnuts in bloom, the lilacs, the honeysuckles, whose fragrance filled the
air, and whose verdure glistened in the sun. In the antechamber was the gardener and all his
family, who, sad and silent, seemed also to say to me, 'Don't go, young master, don't go.'
Hortense, my eldest sister, pressed me in her arms, and Amélie, my little sister, who was in
a corner of the drawing room looking at the pictures in a volume of La Fontaine, came up to
me, holding out the book:

'Read, read, brother,' said she, weeping....

She pointed to the fable of the Two Pigeons!... I suddenly got up, and repelled them all. 'I
am now twenty, I am of noble blood, I want glory and honor.... Let me go.' And I ran toward
the courtyard. I was about getting into the postchaise, when a woman appeared on the staircase.
It was Henrietta! She did not weep ... she did not say a word ... but, pale and trembling,
it was with the utmost difficulty that she kept from falling. She waved the white handkerchief
she held in her hand, as a last good-by, and she fell senseless on the floor. I ran and took
her up, I pressed her in my arms, I pledged my love to her for life; and as she recovered consciousness,
leaving her in the hands of my mother and sister, I ran to my postchaise without stopping,
and without turning my head.

If I had looked at Henrietta, I should not have gone.

In a few moments afterward the postchaise was rattling along the highway. For a long time my
mind was completely absorbed by thoughts of my sisters, of Henrietta, of my mother, and of
all the happiness I left behind me; but these ideas gradually quitted me as I lost sight of
the turrets of La Roche Bernard, and dreams of ambition and of glory took the entire possession
of my mind. What schemes! What castles in the air! What noble actions I performed in my postchaise!!
I denied myself nothing: wealth, honors, dignities, success of every kind, I merited and I
awarded myself all; at the last, raising myself from grade to grade as I advanced on my journey,
by the time I reached my inn at night, I was duke and peer, governor of a province, and marshal
of France. The voice of my servant, who called me modestly Monsieur le Chevalier, alone forced
me to remember who I was, and to abdicate all my dignities. The next day, and the following
days, I indulged in the same dreams, and enjoyed the same intoxication, for my journey was
long. I was going to a chateau near Sedan the chateau of the Duke de C----, an old friend of
my father, and protector of my family. It was understood that he was to carry me to Paris with
him, where he was expected about the end of the month; he promised to present me at Versailles,
and to give me a company of dragoons through the credit of his sister, the Marchioness de F----,
a charming young lady, designated by public opinion as Madame de Pompadour's successor, whose
title she claimed with the greater justice as she had long filled its honorable functions.
I reached Sedan at night, and at too late an hour to go to the chateau of my protector. I therefore
postponed my visit until the nest day, and lay at the 'France's Arms,' the best hotel of the
town, and the ordinary rendezvous of all the officers; for Sedan is a garrison town, and is
well fortified; the streets have a warlike air, and even the shopkeepers have a martial look,
which seems to say to strangers, 'We are fellow countrymen of the great Turenne!' I supped
at the general table, and I asked what road I should take in the morning to go to the chateau
of the Duke de C----, which is situated some three leagues out of the town. 'Anybody will show
you,' I was told, 'for it is well known hereabouts: Marshal Fabert, a great warrior and a celebrated
man, died there.' Thereupon the conversation turned about Marshal Fabert. Between young soldiers,
this was very natural; his battles, his exploits, his modesty, which made him refuse the letters
patent of nobility and the collar of his orders offered him by Louis XIV, were all talked about;
they dwelt especially on the inconceivable fortune which had raised him from the rank of a
simple soldier to the rank of a marshal of France--him, who was nothing at all, the son of
a mere printer: it was the only example of such a piece of fortune which could then be instanced,
and which, even during Fabert's life, had appeared so extraordinary, the vulgar never feared
to ascribe his elevation to supernatural causes. It was said that from his youth he had busied
himself with magic and sorcery, and that he had made a league with the devil. Mine host, who,
to the stupidity inherent in all the natives of the province of Champagne, added the credulity
of our Brittany peasants, assured us with a great deal of sangfroid, that when Fabert died
in the chateau of the Duke de C----, a black man, whom nobody knew, was seen to enter into
the dead man's room, and disappear, taking with him the marshal's soul, which he had bought,
and which belonged to him; and that even now, every May, about the period of the death of Fabert,
the people of the chateau saw the black man about the house, bearing a small light. This story
made our dessert merry, and we drank a bottle of champagne to the demon of Fabert, craving
it to be good enough to take us also under its protection, and enable us to win some battles
like those of Collioure and La Marfee.

I rose early the next morning, and went to the chateau of the Duke de C----, an immense gothic
manor-house, which perhaps at any other moment I would not have noticed, but which I regarded,
I acknowledge, with curiosity mixed with emotion, as I recollected the story told us on the
preceding evening by the host of the 'France's Arms.' The servant to whom I spoke, told me
he did not know whether his master could receive company, and whether he could receive me.
I gave him my name, and he went out, leaving me alone in a sort of armory, decorated with the
attributes of the chase and family portraits.

I waited some time, and no one came. 'The career of glory and of honor I have dreamed commences
by the antechamber,' said I to myself, and impatience soon possessed the discontented solicitor.
I had counted over the family portraits and all the rafters of the ceiling some two or three
times, when I heard a slight noise in the wooden wainscoting. It was caused by an ill-closed
door the wind had forced open. I looked in, and I perceived a very handsome boudoir, lighted
by two large windows and a glazed door opening on a magnificent park. I walked into this room,
and after I had gone a short distance, I was stopped by a scene which I had not at first perceived.
A man was lying on a sofa, with his back turned to the door by which I came in. He got up,
and without perceiving me, ran abruptly to the window. Tears streamed down his cheeks, and
a profound despair was marked on his every feature. He remained motionless for some time, keeping
his face buried in his hands; then he began striding rapidly about the room. I was then near
him; he perceived me, and trembled; I, too, was annoyed and confounded at my indiscretion;
I sought to retire, muttering some words of excuse.

'Who are you? What do you want?' he said to me in a loud voice, taking hold of me by my arms.

'I am the Chevalier Bernard de la Roche Bernard, and I come from Brittany.'...

'I know, I know,' said he; and he threw himself into my arms, made me take a seat by his side,
spoke to me warmly about my father and all my family, whom he knew so well that I was persuaded
I was talking with the master of the chateau.

'You are Monsieur de C----?' I asked him.

He got up, looked at me wildly, and replied, 'I was he, I am he no longer, I am nothing;' and
seeing my astonishment, he exclaimed, 'Not a word more, young man, don't question me!'

'I must, Monsieur; I have been the involuntary witness of your chagrin and your grief, and
if my attachment and my friendship may to some degree alleviate'----

'You are right, you are right,' said he; 'you cannot change my fate, but at the least you may
receive my last wishes and my last injunctions ... it is the only favor I ask of you.'

He shut the door, and again took his seat by my side; I was touched, and tremblingly expected
what he was going to say: he spoke with a grave and solemn manner. His physiognomy had an expression
I had never seen before on any face. His forehead, which I attentively examined, seemed marked
by fatality; his face was pale; his black eyes sparkled, and occasionally his features, although
changed by pain, would contract in an ironical and infernal smile. 'What I am going to tell
you,' said he, 'will surprise you.' You will doubt me ... you will not believe me ... even.
I doubt it sometimes ... at the least, I would like to doubt it; but I have got the proofs
of it; and there is in everything around us, in our very organization, a great many other mysteries
which we are obliged to undergo, without being able to understand.' He remained silent for
a moment, as if to collect his ideas, brushed his forehead with his hand, and then proceeded:

'I was born in this chateau. I had two elder brothers, to whom the honors and the estates of
our house were to descend. I could hope nothing above the cassock of an abbé, and yet dreams
of ambition and of glory fermented in my head, and quickened the beatings of my heart. Discontented
with my obscurity, eager for fame, I thought of nothing but the means of acquiring it, and
this idea made me insensible to all the pleasures and all the joys of life. The present was
nothing to me; I existed only in the future; and that future lay before me robed in the most
sombre colors. I was nearly thirty years old, and had done nothing. Then literary reputations
arose from every side in Paris, and their brilliancy was reflected even to our distant province.
'Ah!' I often said to myself, 'if I could at the least command a name in the world of letters!
that at least would be fame, and fame is happiness.' The confidant of my sorrow was an old
servant, an aged negro, who had lived in the chateau for years before I was born; he was the
oldest person about the house, for no one remembered when he came to live there; and some of
the country people said that he knew the Marshal Fabert, and had been present at his death'--

My host saw me express the greatest surprise; he interrupted his narrative to ask me what was
the matter.

'Nothing,' said I; but I could not help thinking of the black man the innkeeper had mentioned
the evening before.

Monsieur de C---- went on with his story: 'One day, before Juba (such was the negro's name),
I loudly expressed my despair at my obscurity and the uselessness of my life, and I exclaimed:
'I would give ten years of my life to be placed in the first rank of our authors.' 'Ten years,'
he coldly replied to me, 'are a great deal; it's paying dearly for a trifle; but that's nothing,
I accept your ten years. I take them now; remember your promises: I shall keep mine!' I cannot
depict to you my surprise at hearing him speak in this way. I thought years had weakened his
reason; I smiled, and he shrugged his shoulders, and in a few days afterward I quitted the
chateau to pay a visit to Paris. There I was thrown a great deal in literary society. Their
example encouraged me, and I published several works, whose success I shall not weary you by
describing. All Paris applauded me; the newspapers proclaimed my praises; the new name I had
assumed became celebrated, and no later than yesterday, you, yourself, my young friend, admired
me.'

A new gesture of surprise again interrupted his narrative: 'What! you are not the Duke de C----?'
I exclaimed.

'No,' said he very coldly.

'And,' I said to myself, 'a celebrated literary man! Is it Marmontel? or D'Alembert? or Voltaire?'

He sighed; a smile of regret and of contempt flitted over his lips, and he resumed his story:
'This literary reputation I had desired soon became insufficient for a soul as ardent as my
own. I longed for nobler success, and I said to Juba, who had followed me to Paris, and who
now remained with me: 'There is no real glory, no true fame, but that acquired in the profession
of arms. What is a literary man? A poet? Nothing. But a great captain, a leader of an army!
Ah! that's the destiny I desire; and for a great military reputation, I would give another
ten years of my life.' 'I accept them,' Juba replied; 'I take them now; don't forget it.''

At this part of his story he stopped again, and, observing the trouble and hesitation visible
in my every feature, he said:

'I warned you beforehand, young man, that you could not believe me; this seems a dream, a chimera
to you!... and to me, too!... and yet the grades and the honors I obtained were no illusions;
those soldiers I led to the cannon's mouth, those redoubts stormed, those flags won, those
victories with which all France has rung ... all that was my work ... all that glory was mine.'...

While he strode up and down the room, and spoke with this warmth and enthusiasm, surprise chilled
my blood, and I said to myself, 'Who can this gentleman be?... Is he Coligny?... Richelieu?...
the Marshal Saxe?'...

From this state of excitement he had fallen into great depression, and coming close to me,
he said to me, with a sombre air:

'Juba spoke truly; and after a short time had passed away, disgusted with this vain bubble
of military glory, I longed for the only thing real and satisfactory and permanent in this
world; and when, at the cost of five or six years of life, I desired gold and wealth, Juba
gave them too.... Yes, my young friend, yes, I have seen fortune surpass all my desires; I
became the lord of estates, of forests, of chateaux. Up to this morning they were all mine;
if you don't believe me, if you don't believe Juba ... wait ... wait ... he is coming ... and
you will see for yourself, with your own eyes, that what confounds your reason and mine, is
unhappily but too real.'

He then walked toward the mantlepiece, looked at the clock, exhibited great alarm, and said
to me in a whisper:

'This morning at daybreak I felt so depressed and weak I could scarcely get up. I rang for
my servant. Juba came. 'What is the matter with me this morning?' I asked him. 'Master, nothing
more than natural. The hour approaches, the moment draws near!' 'What hour? What moment?' 'Don't
you remember? Heaven allotted sixty years as the term of your existence. You were thirty when
I began to obey you!' 'Juba,' said I, seriously alarmed, 'are you in earnest?' 'Yes, master;
in five years you have dissipated in glory twenty-five years of life. You gave them to me,
they belong to me; and those years you bartered away shall now be added to the days I have
to live.' 'What, was that the price of your services?' 'Others have paid more dearly for them.
You have heard of Fabert: I protected him.' 'Silence! silence!' I said to him; 'you lie! you
lie!' 'As you please; but get ready, you have only half an hour to live.' 'You are mocking
me; you deceive me.' 'Not at all; make the calculation yourself. You have really lived thirty-five
years; you have lost twenty-five years: total, sixty years.' He started to go out.... I felt
my strength diminishing; I felt my life waning away. 'Juba! Juba!' said I, 'give me a few hours,
only a few hours,' I screamed; 'oh! give me a few hours longer!' 'No, no,' said he, 'that would
be to diminish my own life, and I know better than you the value of life. There is no treasure
in this world worth two hours' existence!' I could scarcely speak; my eyes became obscured
by a thick veil, the icy hand of death began to freeze my veins. 'Oh!' said I, making an effort
to speak, 'take back those estates for which I have sacrificed everything. Give me four hours
longer, and I make you master of all my gold, of all my wealth, of all that opulence of fortune
I have so earnestly desired.' 'Agreed: you have been a good master, and I am willing to do
something for you; I consent to your prayer.' I felt my strength return; and I exclaimed: 'Four
hours are so little ... oh! Juba! ... Juba ... oh! Juba! give me yet four hours, and I renounce
all my literary glory, all my works, everything that has placed me so high in the opinion of
the world.' 'Four hours of life for that!' exclaimed the negro with contempt.... 'That's a
great deal; but never mind; you shan't say I refused your last dying request.' 'Oh! no! no!
Juba, don't say my last dying request.... Juba! Juba! I beg of you, give me until this evening,
give me twelve hours, the whole day, and may my exploits, my victories, my military fame, my
whole career be forever effaced from the memory of men!... may nothing whatever remain of them!...
if you will give me this day, only to-day, Juba; and I shall be too well satisfied.' 'You abuse
my generosity,' said he, 'and I am making a fool's bargain. But never mind, I give you until
sundown. After that, ask me for nothing more. Don't forget, after sundown I shall come for you!'

'He went away,' added my companion, with a tone of despair I can never forget, 'and this is
the last day of my life.' He then walked to the glazed door looking out on the park (it was
open), and he exclaimed:

'Oh God! I shall see no more this beautiful sky, these green lawns, these sparkling waters;
I shall never again breathe the balmy air of the spring! Madman that I was! I might have enjoyed
for twenty-five years to come these blessings God has showered on all, blessings whose worth
I knew not, and of which I am beginning to know the value. I have worn out my days, I have
sacrificed my life for a vain chimera, for a sterile glory, which has not made me happy, and
which died before me.... See! see there!' said he, pointing to some peasants plodding their
weary way homeward; 'what would I not give to share their labors and their poverty!... But
I have nothing to give, nothing to hope here below ... nothing ... not even misfortune!'...
At this moment a sunbeam, a May sunbeam, lighted up his pale, haggard features; he took me
by the arm with a sort of delirium, and said to me:

'See! oh see! how splendid is the sun!... Oh! and I must leave all this!... Oh! at the least
let me enjoy it now.... Let me taste to the full this pure and beautiful day ... whose morrow
I shall never see!'

He leaped into the park, and, before I could well comprehend what he was doing, he had disappeared
down an alley. But, to speak truly, I could not have restrained him, even if I would.... I
had not now the strength; I fell back on the sofa, confounded, stunned, bewildered by all I
had seen and heard. At length I arose and walked about the room to convince myself that I was
awake, that I was not dreaming, that....

At this moment the door of the boudoir opened, and a servant announced:

'My master, Monsieur le Duc de C----.'

A gentleman some sixty years old and of a very aristocratic appearance came forward, and, taking
me by the hand, begged my pardon for having kept me so long waiting.

'I was not at the chateau,' said he. 'I have just come from the town, where I have been to
consult with the physicians about the health of the Count de C----, my younger brother.'

'Is he dangerously ill?'

'No, monsieur, thank Heaven, he is not; but in his youth visions of glory and of ambition had
excited his imagination, and a grave fever, from which he has just recovered, and which came
near proving fatal, has left his head in a state of delirium and insanity, which persuades
him that he has only one day longer to live. That's his madness.'

Everything was explained to me now!

'Come, my young friend, now let us talk over your business; tell me what I can do for your
advancement. We will go together to Versailles about the end of this month. I will present
you at court.'

'I know how kind you are to me, duke, and I have come here to thank you for it.'

'What! have you renounced going to court, and to the advantages you may reckon on having there?'

'Yes.'

'But recollect, that aided by me, you will make a rapid progress, and that with a little assiduity
and patience ... say in ten years.'

'They would be ten years lost!'

'What!' exclaimed the duke with astonishment, 'is that purchasing too dearly glory, fortune,
and fame?... Silence, my young friend, we will go together to Versailles.'

'No, duke, I return to Brittany, and I beg you to accept my thanks and those of my family for
your kindness.'

'You are mad!' said the duke.

But thinking over what I had heard and seen, I said to myself: 'You are the same!'

The next morning I turned my face homeward. With what pleasure I saw again my fine chateau
de la Roche Bernard, the old trees of my park, and the beautiful sun of Brittany! I found again
my vassals, my sisters, my mother, and happiness, which has never quitted me since, for eight
days afterward I married Henrietta.

THE CHAINED RIVER.

  Home I love, I now must leave thee! Home I love, I now must go
  Far away, although it grieve me, through the valley, through the snow.

  By the night and through the valley, though the hail against us flies,
  Till we reach the frozen river--on its bank the foeman lies.

  Frozen river, mighty river!--wilt thou e'er again be free
  From the fountain through the mountain, from the mountain to the sea.

  Yes; though Freedom's glorious river for a time be frozen fast,
  Still it cannot hold forever--Winter's reign will soon be past.

  Still it runs, although 'tis frozen--on beneath the icy plain,
  From the mountain to the ocean--free as thought, though held in chain.

  From the mountain to the ocean, from the ocean to the sky,
  Then in rainy drops returning--lo the ice-chains burst and fly!

  And the ice makes great the river. Breast the spring-flood if you dare!
  Rivers run though ice be o'er them--GOD and Freedom everywhere!

HOW THE WAR AFFECTS AMERICANS.

At the outbreak of the present terrible civil war, the condition of the American people was
apparently enviable beyond that of any other nation. We say apparently, because the seeds of
the rebellion had long been germinating; and, to a philosophic eye, the great change destined
to follow the rebellion was inevitable, though it was then impossible for human foresight to
predict the steps by which that change would come. Unconscious of impending calamity, we were
proud of our position and character as American citizens. We were free from oppressive taxation,
and enjoyed unbounded liberty of speech and action. Revelling in the fertility of a virgin
continent, unexampled in modern times for the facilities of cultivation and the richness of
its return to human labor, it was a national characteristic to felicitate ourselves upon the
general prosperity, and boastingly to compare our growing resources and our unlimited and almost
spontaneous abundance, with the hard-earned and dearly purchased productions of other and more
exhausted countries. Our population, swollen by streams of immigration from the crowded continents
of the old world, has spread over the boundless plains of this, with amazing rapidity; and
the physical improvements which have followed our wonderful expansion have been truly magical
in their results, as shown by the decennial exhibits of the census, or presented in still more
palpable form to the eye of the thoughtful and observant traveller. Since the fall of the Roman
empire, no single government has possessed so magnificent a domain in the temperate regions
of the globe; and certainly, no other people so numerous, intelligent, and powerful, has ever
in any age of the world enjoyed the same unrestricted freedom in the pursuit of happiness:
accordingly, none has ever exhibited the same extraordinary activity in enterprise, or equal
success in the creation and accumulation of wealth. It was unfortunately true that our mighty
energies were mostly employed in the production of physical results; and although our youthful,
vigorous, and unrestricted efforts made these results truly marvellous, yet the moral and intellectual
basis on which we built was not sufficiently broad and stable to sustain the vast superstructure
of our prosperity. The foundations having been seriously disturbed, it becomes indispensable
to look to their permanent security, whatever may be the temporary inconvenience arising from
the necessary destruction of portions of the old fabric.

When the war began, the South was supplying the world with cotton--a staple which in modern
times has become intimately connected with the physical well-being of the whole civilized world.
At the same time, the Northwest was furnishing to all nations immense quantities of grain and
animal food, her teeming fields presenting a sure resource against the uncertainty of seasons
in those regions of the earth in which capital must supply the fertility which is still inexhaustible
here. While such were the occupations of the South and the West, the North and East were advancing
in the path of mechanical and commercial improvement, with a rapidity beyond all former example.
Agricultural and manufacturing inventions were springing up, full grown, out of the teeming
brain of the Yankees, and were fast altering the face of the world. New combinations of natural
forces were appearing as the agents of the human will, and were multiplying the physical capacity
of man in a ratio that seemed to know no bounds. Commercial enterprise kept pace with these
magnificent creations, and never failed, with liberal and enlightened spirit, to avail itself
of all the resources which industry produced or genius invented. Our tonnage surpassed that
of the greatest nations; the skill of our shipbuilders was unsurpassed; and the courage, industry,
and perseverance of our seamen were renowned all over the world. On every ocean and in every
important harbor of the earth were daily visible the emblems of our national power and the
evidences of our individual prosperity. But in one fatal moment, from a cause which was inherent
in our moral and political condition, all this prodigious activity of thought and work was
brought to a complete stand. Such a shock was never before experienced, because such a social
and material momentum had never before been acquired by any nation, and then been arrested
by so gigantic a calamity. It was as if the earth had been suddenly stopped on its axis, and
all things on its surface had felt the destructive impulse of the centrifugal force.

War itself is, unhappily, no uncommon condition of mankind. Wars on a gigantic scale have often
heretofore raged among the great nations, or even between sundered parts of the same people.
It is not the magnitude of the present contest which constitutes its greatest peculiarity.
It is rather the magnitude and importance of the interests it involves and the relations it
sunders, which give it the tremendous significance it bears in the eyes of the world. Never
has any war found the contending parties engaged in works of such world-wide and absorbing
interest, as those which occupied both sections of our people at the commencement of this rebellion.
No two people, connected by so many ties, enjoying such unlimited freedom of intercourse, so
mutually dependent each upon the other, and occupying a country so utterly incapable of natural
divisions, have ever been known to struggle with each other in so sanguinary a conflict. All
the circumstances of the case have been unexampled in history. Accordingly the influence of
the contest upon affairs on this continent, and indeed upon human affairs generally, has been
great and disastrous in proportion to the magnitude of the peaceful works which have been suspended
by it, and to the closeness of those brotherly relations which have heretofore existed between
the contending parties, now violently broken, and perhaps forever destroyed.

Almost the entire industry and commerce of the United States have been diverted into new and
unaccustomed channels. The most active and enterprising people in the world, in the midst of
their varied occupations, suddenly find all the accustomed channels of business blocked up
and the stream of their productions flowing back upon them in a disastrous flood, and stagnating
in their workshops and storehouses. They are compelled to find new issues for their enterprise
and to make a complete change in their habits and works. It is not merely in the cessation
of all intercourse between the two vast sections, North and South, that this mighty transformation
has taken place; but an equal alteration has been suddenly effected in the character of the
business and the nature of the occupations which the people have heretofore pursued in the
loyal States of the Union. Great branches of business, employing millions of capital, have
been utterly annihilated or indefinitely suspended. Vast amounts of capital have been sunk
and utterly lost in the deep gulf of separation which temporarily divides the States; or if
they are ever to be recovered, it will be only after the storm shall have completely subsided,
when some portions of the wrecks, which have been scattered in the fearful commotion, may be
thrown safely on to the shores of reunion. It was anticipated, especially by the rebels themselves,
that these incalculable losses, these tremendous shocks and sudden changes, would utterly overwhelm
the North with ruin and tear her to pieces with faction and disorder. But this anticipation
of accumulated disasters, in which the wish was father to the thought, has not been realized
to any appreciable extent. The pecuniary losses have been in a great measure compensated by
the immense demands of the war; and when faction has attempted to raise its head, it has been
compelled to retire before the patriotic rebuke of the people. And although the vast expenditures
of the war give present relief; by drawing largely on the resources of the future, yet the
strength we acquire is none the less real or less effectual in overthrowing the rebellion.

But this sudden and grand emergency, with all its appalling concomitants of lives sacrificed,
property destroyed, commercial disaster, and social derangement, has given a rare opportunity
for the testing of our national character, and of our ability to meet and overcome the most
tremendous difficulties and dangers. Perhaps the versatility of American genius and its ready
adaptation to the new circumstances, are even more wonderful than any other exhibition made
by our people in this great national crisis. There has never been any good reason to doubt
the capacity of any portion of American citizens for warlike occupations, nor their possession
of the moral qualities necessary to make them good soldiers. The long period of peace which
has blessed our country, with the industrial, educational, and moral improvement produced by
it, has rendered war justly distasteful to the Free States of the Union. They were slow to
recognize the necessity for it; and nothing but the most solemn convictions of duty would have
aroused them to the stern and unanimous determination with which they have entered on the present
struggle. Swift would have been our degeneration, if the spirit of our fathers had already
died out among us. But our history of less than a century since the Revolutionary war has fully
maintained the self-reliant character of Americans and demonstrated their military abilities;
and if the commercial and manufacturing populations of particular sections were supposed to
have become somewhat enervated by long exemption from the labors and perils of war, it was
certain that our large agricultural regions and especially our frontier settlements were peopled
with men inured to toil and familiar with danger, constituting the best material for armies
to be found in any country. Nor was it in fact true that any considerable portion of our people,
even those drawn from the stores and workshops of the cities, had become so far deteriorated
in vigor of body, or demoralized in spirit, as to be unfit for military service. The Southern
leaders looked with scorn upon our volunteer army only until they encountered it in battle.
They were then compelled to alter their preconceived opinions of the Yankee character, and
to change their contempt, real or pretended, into respect, if not admiration. Even when superior
numbers or better strategy enabled them to beat us, they have seldom failed to bear honorable
testimony to the unflinching courage and endurance of our troops. Nor do we need the admissions
of the enemy to establish this character for us; our own triumphs, on many glorious fields,
are the best evidences of our ability in war, and of themselves sufficiently attest the valor
and energy of our noble volunteers. In this aspect of the matter, we must not forget the peculiar
character and constitution of our vast army. It is indeed worthy to be called the wonder of
the world. It is virtually a voluntary association of the people for the purpose of putting
down a gigantic rebellion and saving their own government from destruction. This is a social
phenomenon never before known in history on a scale approaching the magnitude of our combinations--a
phenomenon which could only take place in a popular government, where the unrestricted freedom
of individual action promotes the virtues of personal independence, self-respect, and manly
courage. Even the Southern people, fighting on their own soil, in a war which, though actually
commenced by them, they now affect to consider wholly defensive--even they, with all their
boasted unanimity, and with the fierce passions engendered by slavery, have been compelled
to maintain their armies by a conscription of the most unexampled severity; while the loyal
States, fighting solely for union and nationality--interests of the most general nature, and
offering little of mere personal inducement--have so far escaped that necessity, and are now
just preparing to resort to it. After all, it must be acknowledged by every just and generous
mind, whether that of friend or foe, that there is a substratum of noble sentiment and manly
impulses at the foundation of the Yankee character. The vast movements of the Northern people
plainly show it. Their contributions for the support of soldiers' families and for the relief
of the wounded and disabled, are upon a gigantic scale. They raise immense sums for the payment
of bounties to volunteers, and thus, in every way, the burdens of the war are voluntarily assumed
by the people, and to some extent distributed among them, so that every one may participate
in the patriotic work. Nor is this large-hearted liberality confined solely to our own country.
The sufferers in other lands, who have felt the disastrous effects of our great civil war,
have not been forgotten. In the midst of a life-and-death struggle among ourselves, we have
found time and means to assist in relieving their wants--an exhibition of liberality peculiar,
and truly American in character.

Nor are these the only interesting features in the bearing of the American people at the present
crisis. Perhaps a still more remarkable one is the entire devotion of the national energies--of
intellect not less than of heart, of skill, not less than of capital--to the great purposes
of the war. This was the necessary result of our free institutions; of our untrammelled pursuits;
the mobility of our means and agencies of production; and the plastic character of all our
creations. The amount of thought expended on this subject has been prodigious and incalculable.
It would be difficult, if not impossible, to enumerate the ten thousand inventions and devices
of all kinds which have been presented for the purpose of increasing the efficiency of weapons
and of all the appliances of war, as well as for adding to the comfort and securing the health
of the soldier. Every imaginable instrument of usefulness in any of the operations of the camp,
or the march, or the field of battle, has been the subject of tentative ingenuity, such as
none but Yankees could display. The musket, the carbine, the pistol, have been constructed
upon numberless plans, apparently with every possible modification. The cartridge has been
covered with copper, impervious to water, instead of paper, and has its own fulminate attached
in various modes. Cannon shot and shells have been made in many new forms; and cannons themselves
have been increased in calibre to an extraordinary size with proportionate efficiency, and
have been constructed in various modes and forms never before conceived. The tent, the cot,
the chest, the chair, the knife and fork, the stove and bakeoven, each and every one of them,
have been touched by the transforming hand of homely genius, and have assumed a thousand unimaginable
forms of usefulness and convenience. India rubber and every other available material have been
made to perform new and appropriate parts in the general work. The result of all this unexampled
activity and ingenuity has not yet been fully eliminated. It would require years of experience
in war in order to bring American genius, as at present developed, to bear with all its extraordinary
force on the mechanical details of the military art. Beyond doubt, numberless devices, among
those presented, will prove to be utterly worthless; but many of them will certainly stand
the test of experience, will be ultimately approved and adopted, and will remain as monuments
of the enterprise and ingenuity aroused by the necessities of the country in this hour of its
sad calamity.

It would be a curious and interesting employment to estimate the number and character of these
inventions, due wholly to the existing civil strife. Only then should we be able to form some
adequate conception of the immense stimulus which has been applied to the national intellect,
and which has caused it to embrace within the boundless range of its investigations, the highest
moral and political problems, alike with the minutest questions of mechanical and economical
convenience. But we should be greatly disappointed in not finding this phenomenon even partially
comprehended by the powers that be. It is truly a melancholy thing to meet in the highest quarters
so little sympathy with the noblest efforts of the popular mind, and to witness the cold neglect
and even disdainful suspicion with which the most useful and valuable devices are often received,
or rather, we should say, haughtily disregarded and rejected. Seldom or never do we find these
inventions appreciated according to their merits. The Government is proverbially slow to adopt
improvements of any kind; and the army and navy, like all similar professional bodies, are
averse to every important change, and wedded to the instruments and processes in the use of
which they have been educated and trained. This peculiar indisposition to progressive movements,
in all the established institutions and organizations of society, has frequently been the subject
of remark and of regret. It is, however, only an exaggeration of the conservative principle,
which, when confined within proper limits, is wise and beneficial. Indeed, the actual progress
of society in any period, is neither more nor less than the result of the conflict between
the opposite tendencies, of retrogradation and advancement--a disposition to adhere to the
old, which has been tried and approved, and a tendency toward the new, which, however promising
and alluring, may yet disappoint and mislead. In the long run, however, the latter prevails,
and the progressive movement, more or less rapid, goes on continually. Improvements gradually
force themselves upon the attention of the most prejudiced minds, and eventually conquer opposition
in spite of professional immobility and aversion to change. Observation has shown that the
most important steps of progress usually originate outside of the professions, and are only
adopted when they can no longer be resisted with safety to the conservative body. To the volunteer
officer and soldier, or to those educated soldiers who have long been in civil life, will probably
be due the greater part of that accessibility to new ideas which will result in important advances
in the art of war. This assertion may seem to be paradoxical; but all experience proves that
ignorance of old processes is most favorable to the introduction of new ones. And though in
a thousand instances such ignorance may be disastrous, occasionally it finds the unprejudiced
intellect illuminated by flashes of original genius, and open to the entrance of valuable ideas
which would have been utterly excluded by all the old and established rules.

But the actual work of the unexampled mental activity of the present day, will not be fully
known and estimated until after the close of the war. Until then there will be neither time
nor opportunity to weigh and test the creations of the national ingenuity. In the midst of
campaigns and battles, with the absorbing interest of the great struggle, the instruments of
warfare cannot be easily changed, however important may be the improvement presented. The emergency
which arouses genius and brings forth valuable inventions, is by no means favorable to their
adoption and general use. On the contrary, by a sort of fatality which seems to be a law of
their existence, they are doomed to struggle with adversity and fierce opposition, and they
are left by the occasion which gave them birth as its repudiated offspring--a legacy to the
future emergency which will cherish and perfect them, make them available, and enjoy the full
benefit to be derived from them.

The navy has always justly been the pride of our country; and it was to be expected that it
would first feel the impulse of inventive genius. Confident in our strength and resources,
we had long remained comparatively sluggish, and regardless of those interesting experiments
which other great maritime powers had been carefully making with a view to render ships invulnerable.
We looked on quietly, observed the results, and waited for the occasion when we should be required
to put forth our strength in this direction. When the war commenced, we had not a single iron-clad
vessel of any description. It became necessary that the immense Southern coast of our country
should be subjected to the strictest blockade. This was a work of vast magnitude, and a very
large and sudden increase of the navy was demanded by the extraordinary emergency. Cities were
to be taken, and strong fortresses to be attacked. The rebels had managed to save some of the
vessels intended to be destroyed at Norfolk, and had converted the Merrimack into a formidable
monster, which in due time displayed her destructive powers upon our unfortunate fleet in Hampton
Roads, in that ever-memorable contest in which the Monitor first made her timely appearance.
The chief result of the vast effort demanded by the perilous situation of our country, was
the class of vessels of which the partially successful but ill-fated Monitor was the type.
These structures are certainly very far from being perfect as ships of war; nevertheless, they
constitute an interesting and valuable experiment, and mark an advance in naval warfare of
the very first importance. They establish the form in which defensive armor may perhaps be
most effectively disposed for the protection of men on board ships; but at the same time, it
must be conceded that they utterly fail in all the other requisites for men-of-war and sea-going
vessels. They are deficient in buoyancy and speed. In truth they are nothing more than floating
batteries, useful in the defence of harbors or the attack of forts. The melancholy end of the
Monitor shows too plainly that vessels of her character cannot be safely trusted to the fury
of the open sea. They may do well in favorable weather, or may escape on a single expedition;
but a repetition of long voyages will be almost certain to result in their loss.

We want lighter and swifter vessels to be equally formidable in ordnance, and alike invulnerable
to the attacks of any adversary. To combine all these requisites is not beyond the ingenuity
of American constructors. Most assuredly such vessels will soon make their appearance on the
ocean. Some new arrangement of the propelling apparatus, and lighter and more powerful machinery,
will accomplish this important end. And then, too, with greatly increased speed, and with a
construction suitable to the new function, the principle of the ram will be perfected; so that
the projectile thrown by the most powerful ordnance now existing or even conceived will be
insignificant compared with the momentum of a large steamer, going at the rate of thirty or
forty miles an hour, and herself becoming the direct instrument of destruction to her adversary.
Ordnance may possibly be devised which will throw shot or shell weighing each a thousand pounds;
but by the new principle, which is evidently growing in practicability and favor, the weight
of thousands of tons will be precipitated against vessels of war, and naval combats will become
a conflict of gigantic forces, in comparison with which the discharge of guns and the momentum
of cannon balls will be little more than the bursting of bubbles.

The exploits of the rebel steamer Alabama, so destructive to our commerce and so humiliating
to our pride as a great naval power, sufficiently attest the vital importance of the element
of speed in ships of war. Her capacity under steam is beyond that of our best vessels, and
she therefore becomes, at her pleasure, utterly inaccessible to anything we may send to pursue
her. We have built our steamers strong and heavy; but proportionately slow and clumsy. The
Alabama could not safely encounter any one of them entitled to the name of a regular cruiser;
but she does not intend to risk such a contest, and, most unfortunately for us, she cannot
be compelled to meet it. Of what real use are all the costly structures of our navy with the
tremendous ordnance which they carry, if this comparatively insignificant craft can go and
come when and where she will, and sail through and around our fleets without the possibility
of being interrupted? They are perfectly well suited to remain stationary and aid us in blockading
the Southern ports; but the frequent escape of fast steamers running the blockade, serves still
further to demonstrate the great and palpable deficiency in the speed of our ships of war.
We may start a hundred of our best steamers on the track of the Alabama, and, without an accident,
they can never overtake her. The only alternative is to accept the lesson which her example
teaches, and to surpass her in those qualities which constitute her efficiency and make her
formidable as a foe. This we must do, or we must quietly surrender our commerce to her infamous
depredations, and acknowledge ourselves beaten on the seas by the rebel confederacy without
an open port, and without anything worthy to be called a navy. The ability of our naval heroes,
and their skill and valor, so nobly illustrated on several occasions during the present war,
will be utterly unavailing against superior celerity of motion. Their just pride must be humbled,
and their patriotic hearts must chafe with vexation, so long as the terrible rebel rover continues
to command the seas, as she will not fail to do so long as we are unable to cope with her in
activity and speed. Nor is it certain we have yet known the worst. Ominous appearances abroad,
and thick-coming rumors brought by every arrival, indicate the construction in England of numerous
other ships like the Alabama, destined to run the blockade and afterward to join that renowned
cruiser in her work of destruction. Stores of cotton held in Southern ports offer a temptation
to the cupidity of foreign adventurers which will command capital to any amount, and the best
skill of English engineers and builders will be enlisted to make the enterprise successful--a
skill not embarrassed by bureaucratic inertia and stolidity.

Let the genius of American constructors and engineers be brought to bear on the subject, and
the important problem will be solved in sixty days. Indeed, there are plans in existence, at
this very hour, by which the desired end could be at once accomplished. But the inertia of
official authority, and especially of the bureaus in the Navy Department, is such that any
novel idea, however demonstrably good and valuable, is usually doomed to battle for years against
opposition of all kinds before it can hope to secure an introduction. In all probability, the
war will have been ended before anything of great importance ever can be accomplished through
those channels. The adoption of the Monitor principle was not due to the skill and intelligence
found in official quarters; it was forced upon the Navy Department from the outside. And like
the boa constrictor, after having swallowed its prey, the Department must sluggishly repose
until that meal is digested before another can be taken. One idea, of the magnitude of this,
is enough for the present crisis. We shall not have another, if the stubborn resistance and
fixity of ideas in the bureaus can prevent it. The invulnerability of the Monitors, and the
peculiar arrangement by which this important end is obtained, are but one of the items necessary
to make up the complete efficiency of war steamers. They are only one half what is required.
They accomplish one of the great desiderata in armaments afloat; but they leave another equally
important demand utterly unsatisfied. There is a counterpart to this achievement--its complement,
equally indispensable to the efficiency of the navy, and waiting to be placed by the side of
the recent improvement. It must and will be brought forth, whether the naval authorities assist
or oppose. American genius, only give it fair play, is equal to all emergencies.

The immense activity of thought and ingenuity elicited by the war, and extending to all the
departments of enterprise appropriate to the great crisis, is a phenomenon peculiar to the
American people. It could be exhibited nowhere else, to the same extent, among civilized nations,
because nowhere else is the same stimulus applied with equal directness to the popular masses.
The operation of this peculiar cause is conspicuously plain. The Government of the United States
is the people's Government; the war is emphatically the people's war. Every man feels that
he has a personal interest in it. He understands, more or less clearly, the whole question
involved, and has fixed opinions, and perhaps strong feelings, in regard to it. His friends
and neighbors and brothers are in the army, and they have gone thither voluntarily, perhaps
impelled by enlightened and conscientious convictions of duty. His sympathies follow them;
he ardently prays for their success; and he is stimulated to provide, as well as he can, for
their comfort. All other business being greatly interrupted, if not wholly suspended, he thinks
continuously of the mighty operations of the war. He dwells on them night and day, and in the
laboratory of his active mind, excited by the mighty stimulus of personal and patriotic feeling
natural to the occasion, he produces those extraordinary combinations which distinguish the
present era.

In addition to these impulses which operate so generally, there is the still more universal
and all-pervading love of gain which stimulates his inventive faculties, and causes them to
operate in the direction in which his hopes and sympathies are turned. Aroused by motives of
all kinds, the whole mind and heart of the country is absorbed in the great contest, and all
its energies are applied in every conceivable way to the work of war. The man who carries the
gun and uses it on the battle field is not more earnestly engaged in this work than he who
racks his brain and sifts his teeming ideas for the purpose of making the instrument more destructive.
Even the victims who fall in the deadly strife and give their mangled bodies to their country,
are not more truly martyrs to a glorious cause than the inventors who sometimes sacrifice themselves
in the course of their perilous experiments, or by the slower process of mental and physical
exhaustion during the long years of 'hope deferred,' while vainly seeking to make known the
value of their devices. A great power is at work, operating on the character and capacity of
each individual, and affecting each according to the infinite diversity which prevails among
men. A common enthusiasm, or, at least, a common excitement pervades the whole community to
its profoundest depths, and arouses all its energy and all its intellect, whatever that energy
and intellect may be capable of doing. It carries multitudes into the army full of patriotic
ardor; it inspires others with grand ideas, which they seek to embody in combinations of power,
useful and effective in the great work which is the task of the nation, and for the accomplishment
of which all noble hearts are laboring earnestly and incessantly.

But in this tempestuous hour, as in more peaceful times, good and bad ideas, valuable and worthless
devices, noble and generous as well as sinister and mercenary purposes are mingled in the vast
multitude of projects which are presented for acceptance and adoption. The power of the nation
is magnified by the impulse which arouses it; but in its exaltation it still retains its errors
and defects. It is the same people, with all their characteristic faults and virtues, stimulated
to mighty exertions in a sacred cause, who have been so often engaged in petty partisan contests,
swayed by dishonest leaders, and carried astray by the base intrigues of ambition and selfishness.
Yet, as the masses, at all times, have had no interest but that of the nation which they chiefly
constitute, and have sought nothing but what they at least considered to be the public good,
so even now, in these mad and perilous times, the predominating sentiment and purpose of the
people, in whatever sphere they move, are, on the whole, good and worthy of approval. Every
one must at least pretend to be controlled by honest and patriotic motives; and in such an
emergency hypocrisy cannot possibly be universal or even predominant. Although men may seek
chiefly their own interest and profit, they must do so through some effort of public usefulness.
They must commend themselves, their works, and ideas, as of superior importance to the cause
of the country; and in this universal struggle and competition--this mighty effervescence of
popular thought and action, it would be strange and unexampled, if some great, new conceptions
should not dawn upon us. The very condition, physical, social, and moral, of our twenty millions
of people in the loyal States is unlike all that has ever preceded it. Their general intelligence,
the result of universal education, makes available their unlimited freedom, and establishes
their capacity for great achievements. The present momentous occasion makes an imperative demand
upon all their highest faculties, and they cannot fail to respond in a manner which will satisfy
every just expectation.

What the Government has undertaken in this crisis is worthy of a great people and springs from
the large ideas habitual to Americans. The blockade of the whole Southern coast, with its vast
shore line, and its intricate network of inlets, harbors, and rivers; the controlling of the
mighty Mississippi from Cairo to the gulf; the campaigns in Virginia, Tennessee, and Arkansas;
and the pending attacks on Charleston and Savannah--these gigantic and tremendous operations
have something of that grandeur which is familiar to our thoughts--which, indeed, constitutes
the staple of the ordinary American speech, apparently having all the characteristics of exaggerated
jesting and idle boast. We frequently hear our enthusiastic countrymen talk of anchoring Great
Britain in one of our northern lakes. They speak contemptuously of the petty jurisdictions
of European powers contrasted with the magnificent domain of our States, and they sneer at
the rivers of the old continent as mere rills by the side of the mighty 'father of waters.'
The men whose very jests are on a scale of such magnitude, do not seem to find the extensive
military operations too large for their serious thoughts. No American considers them beyond
our power, or for one moment hesitates to admit their ultimate success. No difficulties discourage
us, no disasters appal. We move on with indomitable will and determination, looking through
all the obstacles to the grand result as already accomplished. Does slavery stand in the way,
and cotton seek to usurp the throne of universal empire, dictating terms to twenty millions
of freemen, and demanding the acquiescence of the world? The first is annihilated by a word
proclaiming universal liberation; the second is blockaded in his ports, surrounded by a wall
of fire, suffocated and strangled, and dragged helpless and insensible from his imaginary throne.
A proud and desperate aristocracy, rich and powerful, and correspondingly confident, undertake
to measure strength with the democratic millions whom they despise. These Northern people,
scorned and detested, have ideas--grand and magnificent as well as practical ideas, nurtured
by universal education and unlimited freedom of thought and act. The fierce and relentless
aristocracy rave in their very madness, and defy the people whom they seek to destroy; but
these bear down upon the haughty enemy, slowly and deliberately--awkwardly and blunderingly,
it may be, at first, but learning by experience, and moving on, through all vicissitudes, with
the certainty and solemnity of destiny to the hour of final and complete success. The confidence
in this grand result dominates every other thought. All ideas and all purposes revolve around
it as a centre. It is the internal fire which warms the patriotism, strengthens the purpose,
stimulates the invention, sustains the courage, and feeds the undying confidence of the nation,
in this, the hour of its desperate struggle for existence.

PROMOTED!

  'You will not bid me stay!' he said,
    'She calls for me--my native land!
  And stay? ah, better to be dead!
    A coward dare not ask your hand!

  'My crimson sash you'll tie for me,
    My belted sword you'll fasten, love!
  I swear to both I'll faithful be,
    To these below! to God above!

  'And if, perchance, my sword shall win
    A laurel wreath to crown your name,
  He will not count it as my sin,
    That I for you have prayed for fame!'

         *       *       *       *       *

  His name rings thro' his native land,
    His sword has won the hero's prize;
  Why comes he not to ask her hand?
    Dead on the battle field he lies.

HENRIETTA AND VULCAN.

Time, O well beloved, floweth by like a river; sweepeth on by turreted castles and dainty boat-houses,
great old forests and ruined cities. Tender, cool-eyed lilies fringe its rippling shores, straggling
arms of longing seaweeds are unceasingly wooing and losing its flying waves; and on its purple
bosom by night, linger merrily hosts of dancing stars. Bright under its limpid waters gleam
the towers of many a 'sunken city.' Strong and clear through the night-silence of eager listening,
ring the chimes of their far-off bells, the echoes of joyous laughter: and to waiting, yearning
ones come, ever and anon, deep glances from gleaming eyes, warm graspings from outstretched
hands. And well windeth the river into grim old caves, and even the merriest boat that King
Cole ever launched flitteth by the dark doors, intent only on the brilliant chateaux, that
shimmer above in the gorgeous sunlight of a brave Espagne. But laughing imps, with flying feet,
venture singly into these realms of the Unknown. Bright streameth the light there from carbuncles
and glowing rubies; but of the melodies that there bewilder them, no returning voice ever speaketh,
for are they not Eleusinian mysteries? But when thou meetest, O brother, sailing down the stream
under gay flags and rounding sails, some Hogarth or some Sterne, who playeth rouge et noir
with keen old Pharaohs, and battledore with Charlie Buff; who singeth brave Libiamos, and despiseth
not the Christmas plums of Johnny Horner; who payeth graceful court to the great and learned,
and warmeth the pale hearts of the shivering poor with his kind cheer and gentle words; who
sitteth with Socrates and Pericles at the feet of an ever-lovely Aspasia, and whispereth capricios
to Anna Maria at the opera; know then, O beloved, if thou hast ever trodden the mystic halls,
that this man is the brother of thy soul! Selah!

But the bravest stream that ever was born on a mountain side has its shoals and quicksands,
and far out in the sounding sea rise slowly coral reefs. Now, if on every green, growing isle
newly rising to the sunlight, the glorious jealousy of some Jove should toss a Vulcan, how
would our Venuses be suddenly charmed by the beauties of a South Sea Scheme! how would their
tiny shallops dot the curling waves, and what new flowers would spring upon the smiling shores
to greet their rosy feet!

'And why a Vulcan?' says the elegant Narcissus Hare, with a shiver; 'a great, grim, solemn,
limping monster, that Brummel would have spurned in disgust! And he to win our ladies with
their delicate loveliness! Faugh, sir! are you a Cyclops yourself?'

Alas! my Tinkler, do you remember that Salmasius began his vituperations of Milton with gratuitous
speculations upon his supposed ugliness, and that great was his grief when he was assured that
he contended with an ideal of beauty. Have you forgotten that the Antinöus won the distinguished
favor of his merry, courteous queen Christina, and that the satirist and man of 'taste' died
of obscurity in a year? Beware, my little Narcissus, lest the next autumn flowers bloom above
your grave in Greenwood, and your fair Luline be accepting bouquets and bonbons from me.

You, Roland, are pale from the very contemplation of such a catastrophe, such an unprecedented
hægira of dames! It is as if from every gay watering place, some softly tinkling bell should
summon the fair mermaids. Beplaided and betrowsered, with their little gypsy hats, would they
float out beyond the breakers, waving aside with farewell, airy kisses, the patent life boats
and the magical preservers, and pressing on, like Gebers, with their rosy faces and great,
hopeful eyes ever laughingly, merrily turned to the golden east--their Morgen Land!

Ah! but--have we no Vulcans among us? 'Fair Bertha, Beatrice, Alys,' come out of the Christmas
ecstatics of the dear old year that has just streamed out like a meteor among the stars;--you
know, fair ones, that the stars are only years, and the planets grave old centuries; lock away
the jewels and the lace sets--charming, I know--the glove boxes and the statuettes, the cream-leaved
books, and the fragile, graceful babioles; pull up the cushions, and group your bright selves
around the register--it's very cold to-day, you roses--and let us settle the question--have
we a Vulcan among us?

Magnificent essayists, O dearly beloved, have handled 'Our Husbands,' 'Our Wives,' 'Our Sons'
and 'Our Daughters' in a masterly style. Very praiseworthy, no doubt, but so unromantic! Why,
there's not a green leaf in the whole collection! The style is decidedly Egyptian, solid and
expressive, but dreadfully compact. No arabesques, those offshoots of lazy, dreamy hours and
pleasantly disconnected thoughts, disgrace the solemnly even tenor of these fathers of 'Ephemeral
Literature,' as some 'rude Iconoclast' has irreverently styled the butterfly journeyings of
our magazine age. But we, O merry souls and brave, are still young and frivolous: we still
look at pictures with as much zest as before our dimly remembered teens; and we belong to that
happy branch of the Scribbleri family, that prefer the sympathy of bright eyes and gay laughter,
to the approving shake of any D'Orsay's 'ambrosial curls,' or the most unqualified smile from
the grimmest old champion who even now votes in his secret heart against the New Tariff, or
charges with unparalleled bravery imaginary or windmill giants on the floor of a Platform or
of a Legislature.

But this, our paper, purporteth to be, in some wise, a disquisition on Beaux, and, by our faith,
we had well-nigh forgotten it. Retournons à nos moutons, as the ancient lawyers used to say
(and many a tyro, in the interim, hath said the same) when they grew so entangled in the mazes
of Jack Shepherd cases that they lost sight of their original designs. And lest I should grow
wearisomely prosaic, and see the yawn behind your white hand, belle Beatrice, let me make my
disquisition a half story, and point my moral, not as fairies do, with a pinch, but with the
shadow of a tale.

And here, signorina, though in courage I am a Cæsar, here I shrink. The birdseye view I would
take of a few leaves of beau-dom, should be from the standing point of your own unquiet, peering
eyes; and if even Cupid is blindfold, how may I, to whom you are all tormentingly delicious
enigmas, hope in my own unaided strength to enter the charmed citadel of your experiences?
Oh, no! But happy is the man, who, with an inquiring mind, has also a sister! Thrice happy
he whose sisters have just now flitted down the staircase, from their own inner sanctuaries,
into the little library, bearing with them in noisy triumph the Harry of all Goodfellows, the
truant Henrietta Ruyter! Ah! she is the key that will unlock for me those treasures of thought
and observation that I will shortly lay before you, O readers!

And now to you, O much-traduced star, that presided at my début into this vale of tears, may
the most glorious rocket ascend that Jackson ever said or sung, one that shall break out in
pæans of brilliant stars!--for, when I entered the charmed presence, the very ball that I had
been wishing to roll was upon the carpet. But of this I was unconscious as I admired Fanny's
new dress, the mysterious earrings of our stately Bertha, and ventured upon a slight compliment
to Henrietta, who lounged upon the divan. With admirable dexterity, the young lady caught the
fleurette upon her crochet needle, reviewed it carelessly, and finally decided to accept it;
an event that I had undoubtedly foreseen, for the compliment was a graceful and artistic one.
But brothers, as you, Gustav, my boy, have long since discovered, are not events, and I was
presently consigned to the 'elephant chair' in the corner, with a portfolio of sketches that
Henrietta had brought from over the sea--and the dames continued, in charming obliviousness
of my presence.

'Girls,' said Henrietta, having deposited my compliment snugly in her little workbasket, whence
it may issue to the delectation of some future young lady group, 'how are you going to entertain
me? Such a Wandering Jew as I am! A perfect Ahasuerus! What a novelty it will be that will
interest me!' and with a most laughingly wearied air, the pretty eyebrows were raised, and
waves of weariness floated over the golden hair in its scarlet net.

Fanny looked concerned. 'We may have a week of opera.'

'I've been--in--Milan,' returned Henrietta, with a well-counterfeited air of the disdain with
which Mrs. De Lancy Stevens views all republican institutions since her year in Europe. Bertha
laughed.

'You have grown literary, astronomical perhaps, with your star gazing, and Len has become such
a Mitchellite of late, that two shelves of his bookcase are filled with works on the heavenly
bodies. What a rapture you will be in at the sight!'

'Quite an Aquinas,' said Henrietta, with gravity.

'How so, Harry,' asked Fanny, after a pause, during which she had been deciding that her friend
meant--Galileo!

'Oh, he wrote about angels, you know; said these heavenly bodies were made of thick clouds,
and some other nonsense, of which I remember nothing.'

I, in my corner, was devoutly thankful that angels now assume more tangible shapes, which chivalric
sentiment, finding expression only in my eyes, was recognized but by Henrietta, who rewarded
me with a lightning smile.

'Bertha, my queen,' continued she, as that lady's serene countenance beamed upon her in apparently
immovable calmness, 'does anything ever arouse you? Have you forgotten, my impenetrable spirit,
the sad days of yore, when we sobbed out grand arias to the wretched accompaniment of Professor
Tirili, blistered our young fingers on guitar strings, waded unprofitably in oceans of Locke
and Bacon, and were oftener at the apex of a triangle than its comfortable base? And you always
as calm as though 'sailing over summer seas!' Come--I am absolutely blue;' and the half-fretful
belle, who had really exhausted her strength and amiability by a grand pedestrian tour in the
Central Park that morning, stretched out demurely her gaiter boots, and drew with an invisible
pencil on imaginary paper, the outline of her boldly arched instep.

'If Landon would only come,' sighed Fanny, musingly, counting the beads for the eye of the
Polyphemus she was embroidering on a cushion for that gentleman's sofa meditations, 'he would
entertain you, as well as the--one--two--three--witches in Macbeth.'

'No doubt of it,' said Henrietta.

'Five blues and two blacks,' said Fanny, not heeding the reply. 'See, girls,' and she held
up the glittering orb, 'what a lovely eye!'

The enthusiasm of her audience was delirious but subdued. I caught an occasional 'Such a love!'
'How sweet--how fierce!'

'Now,' said Henrietta, decidedly, 'if Medusa had but one eye, and this dear creature two, I
should die as miserably as the lady who loved the Apollo Belvidere. I have had oceans of knights
errant--but such! I think of writing a natural history like--Cuvier.'

'Yes,' said Bertha, quietly, 'or Peter Parley.'

'Suppose I read you the advance sheets some morning?'

'Charming,' said Fanny, with a little shrug of approaching delight.

'Mr. Landon Snowe, Miss Fanny,' said a crusty voice, and from under a tower of white turban,
Sibyl's face looked out--at the door.

'We will see him here, Sibyl,' said Fanny, brightly; 'and oh, Sibyl, ask Mott to make a macaroon
custard for dinner, for Miss Ruyter.'

'Excellent,' said that lady, again with the De Lancy Stevens air, 'I ate--those--in--Paris.
They actually flavor them there with Haut Brion! and they are delicious!' and Henrietta's lips
fairly quivered at the remembrance, that was by no means a recollection of the long-ago enjoyed
dainties.

'Such extravagance!' said Fanny, opening her eyes, and arranging sundry little points in her
attitude that were intended to be very piercing indeed to the gentleman, whose step was now
heard in the hall. 'Such extravagance, Harry! Your father, I suppose. You'll get nothing better
than Port here. Good morning, Mr. Snowe.'

'Talking of ports, ladies,' said that gentleman, airily, after he had prostrated himself, figuratively
as well as disfiguratively, before Miss Henrietta, bowed over Bertha's hand, and drew his chair
to Fanny's sewing stand, for the triple purpose of confusing her zephyrs, flirting at a side
table, and ascertaining whether Henrietta had fulfilled the luxuriant promise of her earlier
youth. Snowe was, womanly speaking, as you will see, 'a perfect love of a man.' 'Newport, for
example, and charming drives? Williamsport and the Susquehanna, Miss Fanny?'

Very statesmanly, O Landon G. Snowe, Esq., both the glance beneath which my poor little sister's
eyes fell, and the allusions twain to the scenes of many a pleasure past. But Fanny, though
not mistress of her blushes, can, at least, control her words.

'You are not a very good Oedipus, Mr. Snowe; we were discussing imports.'

'Such as laces and silks?'--

'And punch,' suggested Henrietta.

Mr. Snowe's eyeglass was here freshly adjusted, and his attention bestowed upon the young lady
who talked of punch, a thing unheard of in society! The prospect was refreshing. Henrietta
was stylish, piquant, and pretty. Fanny was uncertain, indifferent, but, for the moment, divine.
He magnanimously sacrificed himself to the impulse of the moment, and the courtesies of hospitality,
and walked courageously over to Henrietta, under cover of a huge book.

'They were views from the White Mountains, he believed. Had Miss Ruyter seen them? Allow him;'
and he wheeled her sofa nearer the table, and unfurled the book. Henrietta was charmed.

'The Schwartz Mountains? She had not understood. These are glaciers? How they glisten! And
these little flowers below are violets? Such pretty, modest, ladylike flowers. Had Mr. Snowe
a favorite among flowers?'

Mr. Snowe was prepared. He had answered the question exactly five hundred and ten times. To
Cecilia Lanner, who was almost a religieuse, and who wore her diamond cross from principle,
he was the very poet of a passion flower, such holy mysteries as its opening petals disclosed
to him! To Lucy Grey, who wore pensive curls, and had a sweet voice, he presented constantly
fragrant little sprays of mignonette, cunning moss baskets with a suspicion of heliotrope peeping
out, and crushed myrtle blossoms between the leaves of her most exquisitely bound books. To
Katy Lessing, who rowed a small green boat somewhere up the Hudson in the summer, he confided
the fact that water lilies were his admiration: he loved the limpid water; its restless waves
were like heart throbbings (this nearly overwhelmed poor Katy). All great and noble souls loved
the water;--he forgot the sacred fakirs, and the noble lord who preferred Malmsey wine! He
had repeatedly assured Regina Ward that the camelia was his flower, so proudly beautiful! His
soul was 'permeated with loveliness,' and asked no fragrance. Regina is a great white creature,
lovely to behold, and, perfectly conscious of her perfection, no more actively charming than
the Ino of Foley. He won Milly White's favor by applauding her love for wild flowers, declaring
that a field of buttercups reminded him of the 'spangled heavens,' and that on summer days
he was constantly envying the cool little Jacks in their green pulpits.

A pretended Lavater--and there have been such--would have convicted Snowe at once of the most
artful penetration, could he have seen the lowering curve of his brows as he watched the nervous
fluttering of Henrietta's hands over the pictures, and the decided but softly pleasant rounding
of her white chin. But it was the general unconsciously powerful indifference of manner, that
advised him to prefer, in reply to her question:

'The snapdragon, yes, beyond the shadow of a doubt. I have an odd fashion (very odd, Gustav!),
Miss Ruyter, of associating ladies with flowers, and that gorgeous three-bird snapdragon always
looks to me like some brilliant belle, who holds her glittering sceptre and wields it, capriciously
perhaps, but always charmingly.'

'A sort of Helen,' observed Henrietta, calmly.

'A witching, arbitrary, lovely Helen,' promptly returned Snowe, who had a vague idea of Greek
helmets and golden apples, wooden horses, a great war, and 'all for love.'

Henrietta heard the magnificent vagueness, and became so intently interested in a view, that
Snowe came softly over to my window, and looked into the garden. Lilly Brennan coming in just
then, the conversation became general, and presently Snowe accompanied her down the street.

'Fanny,' said Henrietta, with an inquisitorial air, after the girls had decided that the slides
on the bows of Lilly's dress were too small, and that her 'Bird of Paradise' was lovely enough
to fly away with them all, 'Fanny, are you the 'bright, particular star' of that man?'

'I believe so,' said Fanny, with a stare.

'Do you intend to beam on him for any length of time?' persisted Henrietta.

'I haven't decided,' said Fan, honestly. 'I love beauty, and Landon Snowe is magnificent.'

'So is the Venus de Medicis,' said Henrietta, fiercely; 'but look at her spine! What sort of
a brain do you think could flourish at the top of such a spine? Not that I suppose that man
to have the least fragment of one; don't suspect such a thing! Don't you observe his weak,
disjointed way of carrying his head, and the Pisan appearance of his sentences? I should dread
an earthquake for such a man as Mr. Snowe--you'd have nothing but remnants to remember him
by, Fanny.'

'But earthquakes are phenomena,' said Fanny, stoutly, 'and I'm not in the least like one. As
long as Landon never fails except spiritually, I am contented--and even in that light I never
knew him to trip,' and the child was as indignant as her indolent nature would permit.

'Trip! of course not,' echoed Henrietta, 'when he's buried like a delicate Sphinx up to his
shoulders in the sands of your good opinion, and the mummy cloths of his own conceit; but just
remove these, and you'll see a downfall. My dear FRANCESCA, this man is your CECCO, and he'd
far better retire into a monastery than hope to win you. Why, I'd rather marry you myself,
FRANCESCA! Such charms!' and Henrietta, with her own delicate perception and enjoyment of the
beautiful, kissed my sister's deprecatingly extended hand, and, as the dinner bell rang, waltzed
her out of the room.

'It's perfectly bewildering the interest some people take in music,' she resumed later, building
a little tent on the side of her plate with the débris of fish. 'There's Bartlett Browning,
telling me the other evening a melancholy story of some melodious fishes, off the coast of--Weiss
nicht wo; oysters, I suppose; conceive of it! the most phlegmatic of creatures. I suppose some
poor fisherman heard a merlady singing in her green halls, and fancied it the death song of
some of his shells. But that's nothing to some of Bartlett Browning's musical tales. The man's
a perfect B flat himself!'

'Well,' said Nelly, Phil's little girl, who had come around to show her new velvet basque,
'but shells do sing, for I've often listened to mamma's, and Bessy gives it to me at night
to put me to sleep. You know, Aunt Bertie, for you once made me learn what it said:

  'Oh, sweet and far, from cliff and scar,
    The horns of Elfland faintly blowing!'

'Fish-land, my beauty,' said Henrietta, playfully; 'let us hear your song, fishlet,' and she
held a little gleaming shrimp by his tail, and looked expectantly at his silent mouth. And
here I remember, with a smile of amusement and some astonishment, that Herman Melville, in
nervous fear of ridicule, apologized, most gracefully, of course, for his beauteous Fayaway's
primitive mode of carving a fish; but I fancy I hear myself, or you either, sir, begging the
community to shut its dear eyes, while Harry's little victim, all unconscious of his fate,
disappeared behind the walls, coral and white, of her lips and teeth.

Oh, isn't it perfectly delicious to meet a real, frank, merry, wise sort of a girl, who doesn't
wear spectacles or blue stockings, nor disdain the Lancers or a new frock with nineteen flounces?
Just fancy it, Gustav, my dear fellow, chatting with the Venus of Milo, in a New York dining
room, and she all done up in blue poplin, with cords and tassels and all that, with that lovely
hair tumbling about in a scarlet net, and such a splendid enjoyment of her own great grace,
and royal claiming of homage! Eating mashed potatoes too, and celery, and roast beef, to keep
up that magnificent physique of hers! Oh, it's rare!

But Henrietta couldn't forget Snowe, any more than Snowe could forget himself; so, after she
had gazed with delight at the red veins of wine that threaded the jelly-like custard, with
its imprisoned macaroons, looking like gold fish asleep in a globe of sun-dyed water, she went
on, as if the conversation had not been interrupted:

'Do you know, Fan, that he reminds me constantly of champagne. If there's anything on earth
or in a cellar that I do detest, its champagne; such smiling, brilliant-looking impudence,
that comes out fizz--bang! and that's the end of it; there's not so much as the quaver of an
echo. You drink it, and instead of seeing cool vineyards and purple waters and cataracts of
icicles in your glass, you find a pale, gaunt spectre, or a poor, half-drowned Bacchus, staring
at you. It's just so with your Landon Snowe. You, and other people, too, have a habit of admiring
him, a great creature with eyes of milky blue, who goes about disbursing his small coin like
some old Aladdin! Why, my dear children, the man, I don't doubt, is this moment congratulating
himself, in his solitude at Delmonico's, upon his great penetration. Didn't you see him studying
me with a great flourish of deference, and throwing his old, three-birded snapdragons into
my White Mountains? If he had been as ugly as a Scarron, now, and had known what he said, I
could have loved him for that, for, of all things, I do delight in dragons! Such sieges as
I have had at zoological gardens and menageries, from Dan to Beersheba, just to see one; and
ugly old lizards have been pointed out to me, and scorpions, and every imaginable object but
a dragon. But one day I dug a splendid old manuscript--a perfect fossil--out of some old library
in Spezia, and opening it, by the merest chance came upon a most lovely, illuminated, full-grown
dragon, the very one, I suppose, that Confucius couldn't find! I gazed in raptures, my dearest;
he perfectly sparkled with emeralds; his eyes were the most luminous opals. Dear, happy old
Indians, who had their dragons at the four corners of the earth, and could go and look over
at the lordly creatures whenever they felt melancholy. And besides, I have a little private
system of dragonology of my own, that approaches the equator more nearly. I've always worn
opals since that day on every possible occasion; I mean to be married in them.'

Hurra! belle Henriette! thou hast a weakness. At the end of a long aisle, shrouded in sumptuously
colored perfumed light, stands an altar, and white surplices gleam through the effulgence.--Thou
queen! and that thy crowning!

'Len,' said Fanny the next morning, as I sat, after breakfast, over the paper, 'don't you think
Harry is a little, just a little, satirical, and--well--not perfectly ladylike and kind, to
talk so dreadfully of one's friends?'

'Satirical!? Bless your little, tender heart, not the least mite in the world; she's quite
too straightforward for that. Unladylike! Why, my dear Fanny, don't you know 'the wounds of
a friend'? Did you never think, little sister, that some girls are sent into the world to perform
the office of crumb-scrapers for your serene highnesses, and themselves as well?'

'Like a lady, who gives a dinner party, jumping up and brushing off her own table,' said Fanny
with an amused laugh.

'Just so, dear; and as they go wandering about, not a fragment can be omitted. Now, a little
dwarf of a thing like you couldn't do that with any grace; but Harry could, you know, and make
everybody think it was charming. So, if fragments of poor Snowe fall under her unsparing hand,
and she brushes them off carelessly, don't let anybody's tears go rolling after, don't let
anybody's heart ache, for such a trifle; think of the dessert, Fanny, that is sure to follow.'

'Then you too, Len, you want me to give up Landon?'

'Yes, my dear, let Landon--slide.'

Fanny here boxed my ears with emphasis, and retreated, with an expression of great disgust
on her pretty face.

'Come back here, my child,' I said, pulling her down on my knee, 'and let me reason with you.'

Such an oracle as I am with the girls! There's nothing like it, Gustav; for every fan or bracelet
you give your sisters, you'll be amply rewarded by revelations and love; and it's something
to have a dear, white, undulating wreath of a girl in your arms, and rosy lips on yours, even
if it is your sister. Bless the sweet creatures!

'What do you want to marry Snowe for?'

'Well, you see, Len, it's so grand to have such a great beauty always at one's hand, and the
girls are all dying for him; and, you know, Len, the truth is,' (very low,) 'he loves me, as
you see, and--we girls are such silly creatures--and I suppose the compliment pleases me,'
and the frank, darling face crimsoned, and tears stood in the blue eyes. I kissed them both,
and laid her hands on my shoulders.

'Pet,' I said, earnestly, 'you are worth a gross of Landon Snowes. He loves you, of course--he'd
have been an icicle to have failed in so obvious a duty; but it's only a matter of pure admiration,
scarcely of any complicated feelings. Besides, dear, these whitewashed, sinewless, variable
fellows fade like the winter sun, without any twilight; their features go wandering off in
search of becoming expressions, and they would want a wife like a chameleon to satiate their
variety-loving natures. No, dear; give Landon to Henrietta, and when Napoleon comes back, I
will enter no protest, even Harry will be silent, and'--

'Oh, Len, what nonsense! couldn't you recommend me to the man in the moon, through a telescope?'

Fanny laughed, and we went again into the library, where Harry, as usual, was tapping her rings
with the carved handle of the crotchet needle, that was as ornamental, and about as useful,
as Cleopatra's.

'I am going to live in a new country,' said she, gravely, as we entered the room; 'I would
go sailing off like a squirrel on a piece of bark. I begin to have intense yearnings after
my double. Where do you suppose I'm to find him, the gorgeous, tropical anomaly?'

'In Pompeii, or the Cities of the Plain?' I suggested.

'Fanny,' she continued, laughingly, 'is very grave about her vanishing Snowe-flakes; but for
poor me, who have been persecuted by the most distressing men, she has no pity. Girls, I promised
you an inventory of these treasures.'

'Oh yes,' said Fan, gleefully; 'go out, Len, or you will never be able to endure Harry afterward,
for your counterpart will be peeping out, and then woe to your pride!'

'No danger,' said Henrietta, 'that's perfectly invulnerable. Lenox may remain; it will be a
wholesome discipline for him--a warning, you know, my hero; although, girls, Lenox is tolerably
faultless,

  'Little he loves but a Frau or a feast,
   Little he fears but a protest or priest.'

Praed altered. Sit down, disciple, at my feet if you will; I am in the oratorical mood to-day.
Hypatia, if you please, not Grace the Less.'

There was a pretty picture of the Immaculée Conception over the sofa, one of those lithographs
that you see in every bookstore, that Bertha fancied because it was 'sweet.' The Virgin, a
woman with a child-angel's face, and the mezzo-luna beneath her feet. That artist knew what
he was about, sir. I'd give more for a picture with a good, deep idea, boldly launched forth,
than for a thousand of your smiling, proper, natural 'studies,' and Bridal Scenes, and Dramatic
or Historical Snatches. If artists, now, were all poets and scholars, as they should be, it
would be the work and delirious rapture of a life to go through a gallery as large as our Dusseldorf.
Men would go there to write novels and histories, and women to learn to be good and beautiful--that
is, to learn to think. Oh, what a school for great and small! But when is this new era of the
real and the true in art to begin? You boy artists, who are just opening glad eyes to the glorious
light, the great world looks to you to inaugurate the new, to pour ancient lore and mystic
symbols and grand old art into the waiting crucible, and melt the whole, with your burning,
creative genius, into forms and conceptions before which, hearts shall be silent in very rapture.
But the time is not yet. One here and there cannot change the Iron to a Golden Age, and it
is to thoughts rather than their great embodiments that earnest art-worshippers now bow. And
yet men fancy they are artists, dream of a fame glorious as that of Phidias! Why there's young
Acajou, who chiselled a very respectable hound out of a stray lump of marble, stealthily, by
a candle, or more probably a spirit lamp, in his father's cellar--was discovered and straightway
heroized. I don't say the boy hasn't talent, genius if you will; but it isn't the genius that
will overflow his soul and etherealize his whole nature. Yet already he 'progresses like a
giantess,' has attracted some attention in the Academy, and will directly be sent to Rome.
But the idea! I know him too well! The other night I heard him criticizing Michael Angelo!
and when I gave him an engraving of that delicious Psyche of Theed's to admire, the creature
talked as if she were a manikin or a robed skeleton! Is there nothing due to the idea, Acajou?
'The idea!' dear me, why he didn't exactly know what the idea was! So he'll go trolling about
the Louvre and the Luxembourg gallery, the Pitti palace and all Rome, and his mind will be
as full of elbows and collar bones as the catacombs; he'll talk to you of the Grecian line
of beauty and of 'pose,' and sketch you such a glorious arm or ankle that you, fair lady, wouldn't
know it from your own! But do you see a single softened line in his own face? Has he ever drunk
deep draughts from old fountains of poesy? Has he ever thought of the Vatican library--even
though to long is all he may do? Oh no! He says mythology is a wornout dream, and insulting
to a Christian age; that it's all well enough to know Jupiter and Bacchus (Silenus too?) and
Venus and the head men back there, but this century wants originality, progress! Oh, pshaw!

Oh, but I was saying that Our Lady stood over the half moon, and Henrietta sat below it, with
that soft cashmere morning dress, fighting all around her to see which fold should cling most
lovingly to her graceful form. It was all a delicious poem to me, and if I were Horace, you
would have had a splendid ode. Oh, well!

'Why, what a Joseph he is!' said Henrietta, waking me out of this reverie.

'Oh,' said I, starting, 'how did you know that?'

'Only conjecture, my dear friend; but when we see a man with his eyes fixed in that ghostly
way, and his mustaches and all in perfect repose, we reasonably imagine that he's seeing visions;
and I suppose you'll come flaming out presently with some dreams that shall have, for remote
consequences, a throne in some Eastern paradise, and a princess, perhaps--who knows?'

'Who knows?' echoed I; 'but go on, Hypatia.'

'Oh yes! where shall I begin? Oh! there is Penhurst Lane, girls, you remember?'

'The raven?' said Bertha.

'No,' said Fanny, 'that is Mr. Rawdon. Penhurst Lane is an idealist.'

'A very idealist, just so,' returned Harry. 'Well, the way I've been a martyr to that man's
caprice is perfectly heart-rending. He came of some gorgeous family in the middle of Pennsylvania,
where all the tribes, like leaning towers, incline toward Germany. To be sure, you'd never
dream it from his looks, for he is a perfect Mark Antony in that respect. You needn't laugh.
Didn't he have bonnes fortunes as well as Alcibiades? Not that Penhurst had bonnes fortunes,
or ever dreamed of such things; but he always had such a proclivity toward any one who would
listen to his harangues; and I must say, just inter nos (the only bit of Latin I know, Lenox,
I got it from the English 'Don Giovanni'), that I have quite a talent for listening well. But
I'd as lief encounter a West India hurricane or a simoom. I used to feel him coming an hour
beforehand. Then I would read a little in Blair, take a peep at Sir Charles Grandison, swallow
half a page of Cowper's 'Task,' and look over the Grecian and Roman heroes; then I was fortified.
'Why didn't I take Shelley?' Oh my! why, he couldn't endure Shelley, said he was a poor, weak
creature, all gone to imagination! Then I would assume a Sontag and thick boots, if the weather
was cold, to appear sensible, you know, and await his coming; that is, if I didn't become exasperated
before that stage, and rush in to see Lil Brennan to avoid him. And his opinions, such an unfolding!
You never caught him looking with admiration, oh no! I might have laid a wilderness of charms
on the floor, at his very feet, and he would have brushed them all away with indifference.
His mind revolved around a weightier theme than any 'lady of fashion;' like a newly discovered
moon, he flew around the earth, and with miraculous speed. He stopped in China to say 'Confucius;'
in India, to say 'Brahma;' in Persia, to say 'Ormuzd;' and so on around. My dear Lenox, if
you had asked him whether Ormuzd was at peace with all the world, he would have retired into
himself, for he hadn't the faintest idea. As for music, or any fine art, he never approached
it but once, when he led me to the piano, begging for some native American melody, and not
a German romance. Well, I played him 'God save the Queen,' with extravagant variations, which
he took for 'Yankee Doodle.' No matter! I made a mistake when I spoke of his opinions; he hadn't
any. He was what some call 'well read,' that is, he had a distant desire to 'improve his mind,'
but his magnificent self so filled his little vision, that his great desire was obscured and
distorted. Like my beloved Jean Paul, he had once said to himself, Ich bin ein Ich (I am a
ME), and the noble consciousness overwhelmed him, and excluded all after thoughts on any minor
subject. He never heard Grisi, never saw Rachel; they were triflers, 'life was too grave, too
short;' but he escorted me occasionally to lectures and orations. I remember two or three of
these. A lecture on the 'Fossils of Humanity and Primeval Formations,' which was unintelligible,
consequently to him 'sublime;' one on 'the Exalted,' that soared out of sight and beyond the
empire of gravity, and one on 'Architecture,' by Dr. Vinton, a splendid production, the fruit
and evidence of years of study and rare talent, that sent me home with longings and unaccustomed
reverence for the Great in every form, and with grief that my own ignorance rendered it only
a half-enjoyed pleasure to me; while Penhurst talked as if it were only the echo of his own
thoughts; pretended to say it was very 'sensible!' But you've had enough of Mr. Lane, who was
never known to laugh except at his own wit, who patronized me because I was a 'solid' young
lady, and not given to flights. You may readily imagine that our interviews were generally
tête-à-têtes, for general society was to him a thing 'stale, flat, and unprofitable.' Of course
you know I only endured his visits because among the girls it was considered a compliment to
receive them, and they were all dying of envy. Besides and principally, it is neither politic
nor pleasant to offend any one, and I could not have denied myself to him, without doing this;
so'--

'But, Harry, he is married now.'

'Ah me! yes. He saw me in a cap and bells once with you, Lenox, and not many weeks afterward
married a damsel who reveres him as a Solon, this man, who said:

         ----'The wanderings
  Of this most intricate Universe
  Teach me the nothingness of things.
  Yet could not all creation pierce
  Beyond the bottom of his eye.'

'Are you done, Harry?'

'Yes, Lenox.'

'Then sing us Béranger's Grace à la fêve, je suis roi.'

She has such a delicious voice.

'And while I am on tiresome people, who think only of themselves, let me recall P. George Rawdon;
the Raven, Bertha; I always believed his first name was Pluto, because of the shades around
him. They say every one has a text book; his was neither the Bible, the Prayer Book, Thomas
à Kempis, La Nouvelle Héloise, or 'Queechy,' but Mrs. Crowe's 'Night Side of Nature.' Talk
of having a skeleton in the house! the most distressing ones that ever preceded Douglas and
Sherwood's were nothing to him! he reminded one constantly of an Egyptian feast. He looked
sadly at children, and gave little Henry Parsons, his godchild, a miniature dagger with a jewelled
handle, with which the child nearly destroyed his right hand. When poor Mary was married, he
walked mournfully up to the altar, and stared during the ceremony unmistakably at an imaginary
coffin, hanging, like Mohammed's, midway between the ceiling and the floor. Poor man, it's
really curious, but he contrives to be always in mourning, and everybody knows that he goes
only to see tragedies, and has the dyspepsia, like Regina and her diamond cross, from principle.
He composes epitaphs for all the ladies of his acquaintance, and presents them, like newspaper-carrier
addresses, on New Year's days. I have one in my writing desk in a very secret drawer; a soul-cheering
effusion, but not particularly agreeable to the physical humanity. This I intend to bequeath
to the British museum, where it will be in future ages as great a treat to the antiquary as
the Elgin marbles. What a doleful subject--pass him by!'

'Don't forget Leon Channing,' suggested Fanny, who was listening with great interest, and from
a natural dread of ghosts and vampires was glad to see that Mr. Rawdon had come to a crisis.

'Dear me, no!' said Henrietta, cheerily, 'it's quite refreshing to come to an individual who
creates a smile. I never was born for tears and lamentations, Bertha, any more than a lily
was made to be merry; and if it were not for Len Channing, I don't suppose I should ever have
been sharpened to such a dangerous degree; it's this constant friction, you know; well, as
some darling of a cosmopolite has said, 'We must allow for friction in the most perfect machinery--yes,
be glad to find it--for a certain degree of resistance is essential to strength. I like Leon
very well. No one is more safe in a parlor engagement, always in the right place at the right
tune, never embarrassed, never de trop; but then the queer consciousness, when he's giving
you a meringué or an ice, that if you were a 'real pretty,' graceful, conversible fawn or dove
he would be doing it with the same interest! Why? Oh, because he says women belong to a lower
order in the animal creation! Yes, veil your face, Mr. Lenox Raleigh, and be mournful that
you are a man! 'A lower order of humanity!' Well, of course, I'm always quarrelling with him.
To be sure he's a shallow kind of a philosopher, one of your rationalists; thinks Boston is
the linchpin of the whole universe; has autograph letters from Emerson and Longfellow, and
all that sort of thing. Now, I dare say it's very fine for a Schelling or a Hegel once in a
while to beam over the earth, but it always seems inharmonious to me to see little jets of
philosophers popping up in your face and then down again, all the time, thinking themselves
great things. That's the way with Leon. Let me tell you what happened when I saw him last;
and that was in Cologne, more than a year ago. I was sitting in our room with a great folio
of Retzsch's engravings before me, and father writing horrible notes in his journal at the
table, and wishing the eleven thousand virgins and all Cologne in the bottom of the Rhine,
when I looked up, and somehow there was Leon. Of course we were rejoiced to see him, it's always
so pleasant to meet friends abroad. After some talk, father went out to take another look at
the cathedral, and indulge in speculations and legends, and left Leon and me in the window.
It's as queer and horrible an old town, girls, as you ever dreamed of, and, as there was nothing
external very fascinating, Leon soon turned his gaze inward, and, after twanging several minor
strings, began to harp on his endless 'inferiority of woman.' I plied him, you may know; I
gave him Zenobias and Didos and de Staels and de Medicis--in an emergency Pope Joan, and finally
the Boston Margaret Fuller. Leon only stroked his beard and smiled.

''Miss Henrietta,' said he, at last, when I stopped in exultation, 'do you grant the Africans
the vigor or variety of intellect of the Europeans?'

''No,' said I.

''Yet you concede that there may be instances among them, where education and culture have
developed great results.'

''Yes,' I thought, 'there might be.'

''Just as I, bewildered by Miss Henrietta's keen shafts and graceful manoeuvres, yield that
a woman is, once in a century, gifted with a man's depth of thought and her sex's loveliness.'
The comparison was odious. What did I do? Oh, I (the swarthy Ethiop) only rose from my faded
arm chair, saluted Mr. Channing (the lordly European) as if I were his partner in a quadrille,
and brought out my cameos and mosaics to show him. In about half an hour the beauty of his
reasoning and comparison reached his brain, but mine was impenetrable to his most honeyed apologies;
as I very sweetly assured him, 'I couldn't understand, didn't see the drift, couldn't connect
the links.' Leon says ancient history is a fable, and Herodotus a myth, and all because a woman
sat upon the tripod at Delphi, and because a woman wore the helmet and carried the shield of
wisdom.'

'What's the matter, Harry?' asked Fanny, compassionately, as her small fingers were stretched
like infant grid-irons before her eyes, and a silence ensued.

'My new bonnet, Fanny dear, I am wondering what it shall be; we must go down this very morning
and decide.'

Did you ever think, Narcissus, and you, Gustav, and all of you boys, when you are engaged in
your small diplomacies and coups de main, and feeling like giants in intellect beside the dear
little girls who play polkas for you of evenings and sing sweet ballads, that pour bien juger
les grands, il faut les approcher? I thought so that morning, as I heard the animated discussion
that succeeded Henrietta's monologue; a discussion into which all sorts of delicate conceits
of lace and flowers entered largely, and which savored about as much of the preceding elements
as last night's Charlotte Russe of this morning's coffee.

Since Henrietta's oration, I am more than ever afraid of a Vulcan. It is very plain that our
most fashionably cut suits and most delicately perfumed billets are not all powerful,--that
the dear creatures are either waking or we have been asleep. Reveillons!

'Aux armes, citoyens!'

Now, while I was writing that last word, a heavy hand was laid on my shoulder, and looking
up, I saw--Nap. I love Nap. I have a girlish weakness (let some lady arraign me for this hereafter)
for him; so I shouted out and grasped his hands.

'How are the boys?'

'Flourishing. Come to stay?

'Yes, old fellow.'

'Stocks up?'

'To the sky.'

'The governor?'

'All right.'

I haven't any governor. Nap has; and one that saw fit to persecute him from twenty to thirty,
because he declined to take 'orders.' Per Bacco! Never mind, a fit of paralysis has shaken
the opposition out of the old gentleman at last, and Nap is in sunshine in consequence, and
rushes around Wall street like a veteran.

But I didn't promise to tell you about Nap, or the girls either; it was only a few rays of
light I had to dash over 'our beaux;' so where is your mother, belle Beatrice? I must make
my adieux.

What say you, little one? You like Henrietta; you want to see her again? You pull me back with
your wee white hands; I will talk to you for an hour longer, if I may hold the little kittens
in my own. I may? And kiss each finger afterward? Ah! you dear child! Well, then--

'Are you going to Van Wyck's to-night, Lenox?' asked Bertha of me, as we rose from dinner,
a month afterward.

'Yes, after the opera. And you? I fancy--yes--from your eyes.'

Bertha did not answer, and I strolled up stairs into the little back drawing room. From the
library above I could hear Fanny's merry voice and the ring of Nap's cheery replies. Such a
comfort as it was to me to see those two so fond of each other. You see I am, in a way, Fanny's
father, and took no very great credit to myself when she half laid her hand in the extended
one of Snowe. How curiously that witch Harry managed the thing, though! Dear little Fan; she
stood in more than one twilight by the garden window, and whispered over: 'Addio, FRANCESCA!
addio, CECCO!' and Snowe faded in the returning spring of her heart, and into the blooming
vista of their separation, hopefully walked Nap, and was welcomed with many smiles.

This afternoon, I walked over to the garden window, and there was Harry, scrawling an old,
bearded hermit on the glass with her diamond ring. We both looked out--nothing much to see--a
New York garden, thirty feet square, with the usual gorgeousness of our winter flowers!

'You are thinking of Shiraz, Harry.'

'Yes,' said she, dreamily, 'I am thinking of Shiraz!'

She didn't say it, but don't you suppose I knew just as well that she was wishing for her Vulcan
and a great rose garden? I began to sing the 'Last Man,' but didn't succeed admirably; then
I lighted my pipe--Harry didn't mind, you know, indeed she only looked at it wishfully.

'In my rose garden,' said she, with a laugh, 'I shall smoke to kill the rosebugs.'

'Don't wait,' said I, taking down a dainty écume de mer (the back drawing room was my peculiar
'study,' and the repository of several gentlemanly 'improprieties'), and I adjusted the amber
mouth piece to the cherry stem, 'Don't wait for Persia, make your rose garden here.'

Harry shook her head: 'You know, Len,' she said, 'that my roses would grow like so many witches
in a Puritan soil. I always thought that story of the Norwegians' taking rosebuds for bulbs
of fire, and being terrified, was a very delicate and poetical satire upon all superstition.'

'Are you going to wash away all superstition?' I asked hastily.

'No,' said she, with a smile at my fierceness; 'no, I like to see the sun shine on the dew
drops that the webs catch and swing between the tops of the grasses.'

I looked at her as she laid her head back against the curtains. My nonchalance was as striking
as hers, and--as genuine! We were no children to be awkward in any event. I took her hand;
it was a glowing pulse--and mine? She wore one of those curious little cabal rings; there were
the Hebrew characters for Faith, traced as with a gold pen dipped in melted pearls on black
enamel. My seal was an emerald, Faith also, impaled. I snatched it up and laid it by the ring
on her hand. She smiled--such a smile! intensest sympathy, deepest! Could it be? to love the
same old symbols, the same weird music? I caught her close, and bent over her lips. The gold
hair waved over my shoulder; the great, glittering eyes foamed into mine, then melted and swam
into deep, quivering seas of dreams. I whispered, 'Zoe mou!' Oh, the quick, golden whisper,
the flash of genial heartiness, the daring--oh, how tender! 'Sas agapo.' I held her off, radiant,
glowing, fragrant, and Bertha's dress rustled up the stairs.

Henrietta stooped to pick up the seal, which had fallen; she balanced it on the tip of her
finger--the nervy Titan queen! and drew Bertha down by her side on the sofa. It was growing dark.

'I must be off, girls, and get your camelias. What will you have, Bertha? a red or a white,
you've a moment to decide?'

'Neither, Len; I do not go.'

'Why, Bertha? Oh! I remember, it is your anniversary,' and I kissed her.

'And you, princess!' I turned to Henrietta.

'Only roses, good my liege.'

What was the opera that night? Pshaw! what a rhetorical affectation this question! as if I
could ever forget! Die Zauberflöte, and it rang pure and clear through my thrilled heart. It
followed me around to Van Wyck's, where I found Henrietta and Fanny. A compliment to madame,
a German with mademoiselle, and home again. A great light streamed out of the drawing room.
I pushed the door open. With a cry of joy, Fan rushed into the arms of the grave, fair man
who put Bertha off his knee to welcome her. Nap, who had followed us in, for a moment stood
transfixed, and Henrietta, more quiet, stood by their side, saying: 'Here is Harry, Fred, when
you choose to see her.' And he did choose, her own brother, whom she had not seen for three years!

'Come in, Nap,' I said. 'Fred Ruyter.'

'Nap and Fanny,' I whispered; Fred smiled invisibly.

And Bertha? Oh, you know, of course, that she's Bertha Ruyter, and that Fred is her husband,
just home from six months in Rio, and exactly a year from his wedding night! Oh, Lionardo!
what mellow, transparent, flowing shades drowned us all that night!

'Harry,' I said, the next morning, before I went down town, as I lounged over her sofa, 'you
have my emerald?'

'Yes!' and her bright face turned up to mine.

'You will keep it, and take me also, dear?'

'Ma foi! oui,' was the sweet, smiling reply.

'I'm not quite ugly enough for a Vulcan, I know; but after a while, if you are patient, who
knows? What sayest thou, Venus?'

'I will try you, bon camarade.'

'Your hand upon it, Harry.'

She gave it; I kissed the gold hair that waved against my lips. Fanny rushed impetuously upon
us, with half-opened eyes, and stifled us with caresses.

'Such a proposal,' said she musingly, after she had returned to her wools and beads, '14° above
zero!'

'And the Polyphemus, Fanny?'

'Is for Nap,' and Fanny blushed and laughed. She was wondering if that great event, an 'engagement,'
always came about in so prosaic a way. But looking at Bertha, I caught the bright, long, gravely
humorous gleam from her dark eyes, and walked upon it all the way down to Exchange Place.

Adieu, little Beatrice; my story hath at last an ending. Keep the little hands and little heart
warm for somebody brave by and by. Go shining about and dancing, and smiling, Hummingbird;
may sweetest flowers always bloom around you; may you dwell in a fragrant rose garden of your
own, mignonne! Adieu.

ETHEL.

FITZ FASHION'S WIFE.

  Take the diamonds from my forehead--their chill weight but frets my brow!
  How they glitter! radiant, faultless--but they give no pleasure now.

  Once they might have saved a Poet, o'er whose bed the violet waves:
  Now their lustre chills my spirit, like the light from new-made graves.

  Quick! unbind the braided tresses of my coroneted hair!
  Let it fall in single ringlets such as I was wont to wear.

  Take that wreath of dewy violets, twine it round their golden flow;
  Let the perfumed purple blossoms fall upon my brow of snow!

  Simple flowers, ye gently lead me back into the sunny years,
  Ere I wore proud chains of diamonds, forged of bitter, frozen tears!

  Bring the silver mirror to me! I am changed since those bright days,
  When I lived with my sweet mother, and a Poet sang my praise.

  My blue eyes are larger, dimmer; thicker lashes veil their light;
  Upon my cheek the crimson rose fast is fading to the white.

  I am taller, statelier, slighter, than I was in days of yore:--
  If his eyes in heaven behold me, does he praise me as before?

  Proudly swells the silken rustle--all around is wealth and state,--
  Dearer far the early roses twining round the wicker gate,

  Where my mother came at evening with the saint-like forehead pale,
  And the Poet sat beside her, conning o'er his rhythmed tale.

  As he read the linked lines over, she would sanction, disapprove:
  Soft and musical the pages, but he never sang of love.

  I had lived through sixteen summers, he was only twenty-one,
  And we three still sat together at the hour of setting sun.

  Lowly was the forest cottage, but the sweetbrier wreathed it well;
  'Mid its violets and roses, bees and robins loved to dwell.

  Wilder forms of larch and hemlock climbed the mountain at its side;
  Fairy-like a rill came leaping where the quivering harebells sighed.

  Glittering, bounding, singing, dancing, ferns and mosses loved its track;
  Lower in it dipped the willows, as to kiss the cloudland's rack.

  Soon there came a stately lover,--praised my beauty, softly smiled:
  'He would make my mother happy,'--I was but a silly child!

  Came a dream of sudden power--fairest visions o'er me glide--
  Wider spheres would open for me;--dazzled, I became a bride:

  Fondly deemed my lonely mother would be freed from sordid care;
  Splendor I might pour around her, every joy with her might share.

  Then the Poet, who had never breathed one word of love to me,--
  We might shape his life-course for him, give him culture wide and free.

  How I longed to turn the pages, with a husband's hand as guide,
  Of the long-past golden ages, art and science at my side!

  To my simple fancy seemed it almost everything he knew--
  Ah! he might have won affection, faithful, fervent, trusting, true!

  I was happy, never dreaming wealth congeals the human soul,
  Freezing all its generous impulse--I but saw its wide control.

  Years have passed--a larger culture poured strange knowledge through
    my mind--
  I have learned to read man's nature: better I were ever blind!

  How can I take upon me what I look upon with scorn,
  Or learn to brook my own contempt, or trample the forlorn?

  I cannot live by rote and rule; I was not born a slave
  To narrow fancies; I must feel, although a husband rave!

  I cannot choose my friends because I know them rich, or great;
  My heart elects the noble,--what cares love for wealth or state?

  Very lovely are my pictures, saints and angels throng my hall--
  But with shame my cheek is flushing, and my quivering lashes fall:

  Can I gaze on pictured actions, daring deeds, and emprise high,
  And not feel my degradation while these fetters round me lie?

  Once the Poet came to see me, but it gave me nought but pain;
  I was glad to see the Gifted go, ne'er to return again.

  For my husband scorning told me: 'True, his lines were very sweet,
  But his clothes, so worn and seedy--scarce for me acquaintance meet!

  Artists, poets, men of genius, truly should be better paid,
  But not holding our position, cannot be our friends,' he said.

  'As gentlemen to meet them were a very curious thing;
  They were happier in their garrets--there let them sigh or sing.

  There were Travers and De Courcy--could he ask them home to dine,
  At the risk of meeting truly such strange fellows o'er their wine?'

  Then he said, 'My cheeks were peachy, lips were coral, curls were gold,
  But he liked them braided crown-like, and with pearls and diamonds
    rolled.

  I was once a little peasant; now I stood a jewelled queen--
  Fitter that a calmer presence in his stately wife were seen!'

  Then he gave a gorgeous card-case; set with rubies, Roman gold,
  Handed me a paper with it, strands of pearls around it rolled;

  Names of all his wife should visit I would find upon the roll:--
  Found I none I loved within it--not one friend upon the scroll!

  And my mother, God forgive me! I was glad to see her go,
  Ere the current of her loving heart had turned like mine to snow.

  Must I still seem fair and stately, choking down my bosom's strife,
  Because 'all deep emotions were unseemly in his wife'?

  Must I gasp 'neath diamonds' glitter--walk in lustrous silken sheen--
  Leaving those I love in anguish while I play some haughty scene?

  I am choking! closer round me crowds convention's stifling vault--
  Every meanness's called a virtue--every virtue deemed a fault!

  Every generous thought is scandal; every noble deed is crime;
  Every feeling's wrapped in fiction, and truth only lives in rhyme!

  No;--I am not fashion's minion,--I am not convention's slave!
  If 'obedience is for woman,' still she has a soul to save.

  Must I share their haughty falsehood, take my part in social guile,
  Cut my dearest friends, and stab them with a false, deceitful smile?

  Creeping like a serpent through me, faint, I feel a deadly chill,
  Freezing all the good within me, icy fetters chain my will.

  Do I grow like those around me? will I learn to bear my part
  In this glittering world of fashion, taming down a woman's heart?

  Must I lower to my husband? is it duty to abate
  All the higher instincts in me, till I grow his fitting mate?

  Shall I muse on noble pictures, turn the poet's stirring page,
  And grow base and mean in action, petty with a petty age?

  I am heart-sick, weary, weary! tell me not that this life,
  Where all that's truly living must be pruned by fashion's knife!--

  I can make my own existence--spurn his gifts, and use my hands,
  Though the senseless world of fashion for the deed my memory brands.

  Quick! unbraid the heavy tresses of my coroneted hair--
  Let its gold fall in free ringlets such as I was wont to wear.

  I am going back to nature. I no more will school my heart
  To stifle its best feelings, play an idle puppet's part.

  I will seek my banished mother, nestle closely on her breast;
  Noble, faithful, kind, and loving, there the tortured one may rest.

  We will turn the Poets' pages, learn the noblest deeds to act,
  Till the fictions in their beauty shall be lived as simple fact.

  I will mould a living statue, make it generous, strong, and high,
  Humble, meek, self-abnegating, formed to meet the Master's eye.

  Oh, the glow of earnest culture! Oh, the joy of sacrifice!
  The delight to help another! o'er all selfish thoughts to rise!

  Farewell, cold and haughty splendor--how you chilled me when a bride!
  Hollow all your mental efforts; meanness all your dazzling pride!

  Put the diamonds in their caskets! pearls and rubies, place them there!
  I shall never sigh to wear them with the violets in my hair.

  Freedom! with no eye upon me freezing all my fiery soul;
  Free to follow nature's dictates; free from all save God's control.

  I am going to the cottage, with its windows small and low,
  Where the sweetbrier twines its roses and the Guelder rose its snow.

  I will climb the thymy mountains where the pines in sturdy might
  Follow nature's holy bidding, growing ever to the light;

  Tracking down the leaping streamlet till the willows on it rise,
  Watch its broad and faithful bosom strive to mirror back the skies.

  Through the wicker gate at evening with my mother I will come,
  With a little book, the Poet's, to read low at set of sun.

  'Tis a gloomy, broken record of a love poured forth in death,
  Generous, holy, and devoted, sung with panting, dying breath.

  By the grassy mound we'll read it where he calmly sleeps in God,--
  My gushing tears may stream above--they cannot pierce the sod!

  Hand in hand we'll sit together by the lowly mossy grave--
  Oh, God! I blazed with jewels, but the noble dared not save!

  I am going to the cottage, there to sculpture my own soul,
  Till it fill the high ideal of the Poet's glowing roll.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Stay, lovely dream! I waken! hear the clanking of my chain!
  Feel a hopeless vow is on me--I can ne'er be free again!

  His wife! I've sworn it truly! I must bear his freezing eye,
  Feel his blighting breath upon me while all nobler instincts die!

  Feel the Evil gain upon me as the weary moments glide,
  Till I hiss, a jewelled serpent, fit companion, at his side.

  Vain is struggle--vain is writhing--vain are sobs and stifled gasps--
  I must wear my brilliant fetters though my life-blood stain their clasps!

  Hark! he calls! tear out the violets! quick! the diamonds in my hair!
  There's a ball to-night at Travers'--'tis his will I should be there.

  Splendid victim in his pageant, though my tortured head should ache,
  Yet I must be brilliant, joyous, if my throbbing heart should break!

  I shudder! quick! my dress of rose, my tunic of point lace--
  If fine enough, he will not read the anguish in my face!

  I know one place he dare not look--it is so still and deep--
  He dare not lift the winding sheet that veils my last, long sleep!

  He dreads the dead! the coffin lid will shield me from his breath--
  His eye no more will torture----Joy! I shall be free in death!

  Free to rest beside the Poet. He will shun the lowly grave:
  There my mother soon will join us, and the violets o'er us wave.

THE SKEPTICS OF THE WAVERLEY NOVELS.

It is remarkable that while, in a republic, which is the mildest form of government, respect
for law and order are most highly developed, there is in an aristocracy (which is always the
most deeply based form of tyranny) a constant revolt against all law. Puritanism in England,
Pietism in Germany, and Huguenotism in France, were all directly and strongly republican and
law-abiding in their social relations; while for an example of the contrary we need only glance
at our own South. Aristocracy--a regularly ordered system of society into ranks--is the dream
of the slaveholder, and experience is showing us how extremely difficult it is to uproot the
power of a very few wicked men who have fairly mudsilled the majority; and yet, despite this
strength, there was never yet a country claiming to be civilized, in which the wild caprices
and armed outrages of the individual were regarded with such toleration.

Republicanism is Christian. When will the world see this tremendous truth as it should, and
realize that as there is a present and a future, so did the Saviour lay down one law whereby
man might progress in this life, and another for the attainment of happiness in the next, and
that the two are mutually sustaining? There was no real republicanism before the Gospels, and
there has been no real addition to the doctrine since. The instant that religion or any great
law of truth falls into the hands of a high caste, and puts on its livery, it becomes--ridiculous.
What think you of a shepherd's crook of gold blazing with diamonds?

It is interesting to trace an excellent illustration of the natural affinity between the fondness
for feudalism and the love of law-breaking in Sir WALTER SCOTT. Whatever his head and his natural
common sense dictated (and as he was a canny Scot and a shrewd observer, they dictated many
wise truths), his heart was always with the men of bow and brand; with dashing robbers, moss
troopers, duellists, wild-eagle barons, wild-wolf borderers, and the whole farrago of autocratic
scoundrelism. With his soul devoted to dreams of feudalism, his fond love of its romance was
principally based on the constant infractions of law and order to which a state of society
must always be subject in which certain men acquire power out of proportion to their integrity.
The result of this always is a lurking sympathy with rascality, a secret relish for bold selfishness,
which is in every community the deadliest poison of the rights of the poor, and all the disinherited
by fortune.

It is very remarkable that Walter Scott, a Tory to the soul, should, by his apparently contradictory
yet still most consistent love of the outré, have had a keen amateur sympathy for outlaws.
It is much more remarkable, however, that, still retaining his faith in king and nobles, Church
and State, he should have pushed his appreciation of such men to the degree of marvellously
comprehending--nay, enjoying--certain types of skepticism which sprang up in fiercest opposition
to authority; urged into existence by its abuses, as germs of plants have been thought to be
electrified into life by sharp blows. And it is most remarkable of all, that he did this at
a time when none among his English readers seem to have had any comprehension whatever of these
characters, or to have surmised the fact that to merely understand and depict them, the writer
must have ventured into fearful depths of reflection and of study. In treating these characters,
Walter Scott seems to become positively subjective--and I will venture to say that it is the
only instance of the slightest approach to anything of the kind to be found in all his writings.
Unlike Byron, who was painfully conscious, not of the nature of his want in this respect, but
of something wanting, Scott nowhere else betrays the slightest consciousness of his continual
life under limitations, when, plump! we find him making a headlong leap right into the very
centre of that terrible pool whose waters feed the forbidden-fruit tree of good and of evil.

The characters to which I particularly refer in Sir Walter Scott's novels are those of the
Templar, Brian de Bois Guilbert, in 'Ivanhoe;' of the gypsy Hayraddin Maugrabin in 'Quentin
Durward;' of Dryfesdale, the steward, in 'The Abbot;' and of the 'leech' Henbane Dwining, in
'The Fair Maid of Perth.' There are several others which more or less resemble these, as, for
instance, Ranald Mac Eagh, the Child of the Mist, in 'Montrose,' and Rashleigh, in 'Rob Roy;'
but the latter, considered by themselves, are only partly developed. In fact, if Scott had
given to the world only one of these outlaws of faith, there would have been but little ground
for inferring that his mind had ever taken so daring a range as I venture to claim for him.
It is in his constant, wistful return, in one form or the other, to that terrible type of humanity--the
man who, as a matter of intensely sincere faith, has freed himself from all adherence to the
laws of man or GOD--that we find the clue to the real nature of the author's extraordinary
sympathy for the most daring, yet most subtle example of the law-breaker. In comparing these
characters carefully, we find that each by contrast appears far more perfect than when separate--as
the bone, which, however excellent its state of preservation may be, never seems to the eye
of the physiologist so complete as when in its place in the complete skeleton. And through
this contrast we learn that Scott, having by sympathy and historical-romantic study, comprehended
the lost secret of all illuminée mysteries--that of human dependence on nought save the laws
of a mysterious and terrible Nature--could not refrain from ever and anon whispering the royal
secret, though it were only to the rustling reeds and rushes of fashionable novels. Having
learned, though in an illegitimate way, that the friend of PAN, the great king of the golden
touch, had ass's ears, he must tell it again, though in murmurs and whispers:

             'Qui cum ne prodere visum
  Dedecus auderet, cupiens efferre sub auras,
  Nec posset reticere tamen, secedit, humumque
  Effodit: et domini quales aspexerit aures,
  Vox refert parva; terræque immurmurat haustæ.'[10]

It is to be remarked, in studying collectively these outlaws as set forth by Scott, that while
the same characteristic lies at the basis of each, there is very great variety in its development,
and that the author seems to have striven to present it in as many widely differing phases
as he was capable of doing. When we reflect that Scott himself could not be fairly said to
be perfectly at home in more than half a dozen departments of history, and yet that he has
taken pains to set forth as many historical varieties of minds absolutely emancipated from
all faith, and finally, when we recall that at the time when he wrote, the great proportion
of the characteristics of these dramatis personæ were utterly unappreciated, and that by even
the learned they were simply reviewed as 'infidels,' we cannot but smile at the care with which
(like the sculptor in the old story) he carved his images, and buried them to be dug up at
a future day by men who, as he possibly hoped, would appreciate more fully than did his contemporaries
his own degree of forbidden knowledge. I certainly do not exaggerate the importance of these
characters when speaking in this manner. They could not have been conceived without a very
great expenditure of study and of reflection. They are, as I said, subjective, and such portraits
of humanity always involve a vastly greater amount of penetrative and long-continued thought,
than do the mere historical and social photographs which constitute the bulk of Scott's, as
of all novels, and form the favorites of the mass of readers for entertainment.

First among these characters, and most important as indicating direct historical familiarity
with the obscure subject of the Oriental heresies of the Middle Ages in Europe, I would place
that of the Templar, Brian de Bois Guilbert, who is generally regarded by readers as simply
'a horrid creature,' who chased 'that darling Rebecca' out of the window to the verge of the
parapet; or at best as a knightly ruffian, who, like most ruffianly sinners, quieted conscience
by stifling it with doubt. Very different, however, did the Templar appear to Scott himself,
who, notwithstanding the poetic justice meted to the knight, evidently sympathized in secret
more warmly with him than with any other character in the gorgeous company of 'Ivanhoe.' Among
them all he is the only one who fully and fairly appreciates the intellect of Rebecca, and,
seen from the stand-point of rigid historical probability which Scott would not violate, all
allowance being made for what the Templar was, he appears by far the noblest and most intelligent
of all the knightly throng. I say that though a favorite, Scott would not to favor him, violate
historical probability. Why should he? It formed no part of his plan to give the public of
his day lessons in illuminée-ism. Had he done so he would have failed like 'George Sand' in
'Consuelo;' but a very small proportion indeed of whose readers retain a recollection of the
doctrines which it is the main object of the book to set forth. I trust there is no slander
in the remark, but I must believe it to be true until I see that the majority of the readers
of that work have also taken to zealously investigating the sources of that most forbidden
lore, which has most certainly this peculiarity, that no one can comprehend it ever so little
without experiencing an insatiable, never-resting desire to exhaust it, like everything which
is prohibited. There is no such thing as knowing it a little. As one of its sages said of old,
its knowledge rushes forth into infinite lands.

It was, I believe, some time before 'Ivanhoe' appeared, that Baron von Hammer Purgstall had
published his theory that the Knights Templars were, although most unjustly treated, still
guilty, in a certain sense, of the extraordinary charges brought against them. It seems at
least to be tolerably certain that during their long residence in the East they had acquired
the Oriental secrets of initiation into societies which taught the old serpent-lore of eritis
sicut Deus, and positive knowledge; the ultimate secret, being the absolute nothingness of
all faith, creeds, laws, ties, or rules to him who is capable of rising above them and of drawing
from Nature by an 'enlightened' study of her laws the principles of action, of harmony with
fellow men, and of unlimited earthly enjoyment. Such had been for ages the last lessons of
all the 'mysteries' of the East--mysteries which it was the peculiar destiny of the Hebrew
race to resist through ages of struggle. It was through the teaching of such mysteries of pantheistic
naturalism that, as the unflinching Jewish deists and anthropomorphists believed, man fell,
and their belief was set forth in their very first religious tradition--the history of the
apple, the serpent, and the Fall. And it is to the very extraordinary nature of the Hebrew
race, by which they presented for the first time in history the spectacle of a people resisting
nature-worship, that they owe their claim to be a peculiar people.

The Templars, under the glowing skies of the East, among its thousand temptations, those of
superior knowledge not being the least; in an age when the absurdities of the Roman church
were, to an enlightened mind, at their absurdest pitch, fell readily into 'illumination.' Whether
they literally worshipped the Oriental Baphomet, a figure with two heads, male and female,
girt with a serpent, typifying the completest abnegation of all moral relations, and the rights
of knowledge, no one can say now--it is, however, significant that this symbol, which they
undoubtedly used, actually found its way under the freemasons into the Christian churches of
the West, as a type of 'prudence' among the representations of Christian virtues. When we remember
that the Gnostics taught that prudence alone was virtue,[11] we have here a coincidence which
sufficiently explains the meaning of this emblem of 'the baptism of mind.'

Nothing is more likely than that a portion of the Knights Templars were initiated in the mysteries
of such Oriental sects as those of the House of Wisdom of Al Hakem, the seventh and last degree
of which at first 'inculcated the vanity of all religion, and the indifference of actions which
are neither visited with recompense nor chastisement here or hereafter.' At a later age, when
the doctrines of this society had permeated all Islam, it seems to have labored very zealously
to teach both women and men gratuitously all learning, and give them the freest use of books.
At this time it was in the ninth degree that the initiate 'learnt the grand secret of atheism,
and a code of morals, which may be summed up in a few words, as believing nothing and daring
everything.'[12]

Bearing this in mind, Walter Scott may be presumed to have studied with shrewd appreciation
the character of the Templars, and to have conjectured with strange wisdom their great ambition,
when we find Brian de Bois Guilbert declaring to Rebecca that his Order threatened the thrones
of Europe, and hinting at tremendous changes in society--'hopes more extended than can be viewed
from the throne of a monarch.' For it was indeed the hope--it must have been--for the proud
and powerful brotherhood of the Temple to extend their secret doctrines over Europe, regenerate
society, and overthrow all existing powers, substituting for them its own crude and impossible
socialism, and for Christianity the lore of the serpent. That it was jointly dreaded by Church
and State appears from the excessive, implacable zeal with which it was broken up by Philip
the Fair and Pope Clement the Fifth--a zeal quite inexplicable from the motives of avarice
usually attributed to them by the modern freemasonic defenders of the Knights of the Temple.
I may well say modern, since in a freemasonic document bearing date 1766, reprinted in a rare
work,[13] we find the most earnest protest and denial that freemasonry had anything in common
with the Templars. But the Order did not die unavenged. It is by no means improbable that the
secret heresies which, bearing unmistakable marks of Eastern origin, continually sprang up
in Europe, and finally led the way to Huss and the Reformation, were in their origin encouraged
by the Templars.

Certain it is that the character of Bois Guilbert as drawn by Scott--his habitual oath 'by
earth and sea and sky!' his scorn of 'the doting scruples which fetter our free-born reason,'
and his atheistic faith that to die is to be 'dispersed to the elements of which our strange
forms are so mystically composed,' are all wonderful indications of insight into a type of
mind differing inconceivably from the mere infidel villain of modern novels, and which could
never have been attributed to a knight of the superstitious Middle Ages without a strong basis
of historical research. Very striking indeed is his fierce love for Rebecca--his intense appreciation
of her great courage and firmness, which he at once recognizes as congenial to his own daring,
and believes will form for him in her a fit mate. There is a spirit of reality in this which
transcends ordinary conceptions of what is called genius. To deem a woman requisite aid in
such intellectual labor--for so we may well call the system of the Templars--would at that
era have been incomprehensibly absurd to any save the worshippers of the bi-sexed Baphomet
and the disciples of the House of Wisdom, with whom the equal culture of the sexes was a leading
aim. The extraordinary tact with which Scott has contrived to make Bois Guilbert repulsive
to the mass of readers, while at the same time he really--for himself--makes him undergo every
sacrifice of which the Templar's nature is consistently capable, is perhaps the most elaborately
artistic effort in his works. To have made Bois Guilbert sensible to the laws of love and of
chivalry, which in his mystical freedom he despised, to rescue her simply from death, which
in his view had no terrors beyond short-lived pain, would not have agreed with his character
as Scott very truly understood it. Himself a sacrifice to fate, he was willing that she, whom
he regarded as a second self, should also perish. This reserving the true comprehension of
a certain character to one's self by a writer is not, I believe, an uncommon thing in romance
writing. 'Blifil' was the favorite child of his literary parent, and was (it is to be hoped)
seen by him from a stand-point undreamed of by nearly all readers.

Closely allied in the one main point of character to Bois Guilbert, and to a certain degree
having his Oriental origin, yet differing in every other detail, we have Hayraddin Maugrabin,
the gypsy, in 'Quentin Durward.'

When Walter Scott drew the outlines of this singular subordinate actor in one of the world's
greatest mediæval romances, so little was known of the real condition of the 'Rommany,' that
the author was supposed to have introduced an exaggerated and most improbable character among
historical portraits which were true to life. The more recent researches of George Borrow and
others have shown that, judged by the gypsy of the present day, Hayraddin is extremely well
drawn in certain particulars, but improbable in other respects. He has, amid all his villany,
a certain firmness or greatness which is peculiar to men who can sustain positions of rank--a
marked Oriental 'leadership,' which Scott might be presumed to have guessed at. Yet all of
this corresponds closely to the historical account of the first of these wanderers, who in
1427 came to Europe, 'well mounted,' and claiming to be men of the highest rank, and to the
condition and character of certain men among them in the Slavonian countries of the present
day. If we study carefully all that is accessible both of the present and the past relative
to this singular race, we shall find that Scott, partly from knowledge and partly by poetic
intuition, has in this gypsy produced one of his most marvellous and deeply interesting studies.

Like Bois Guilbert, Hayraddin is a man without a God, and the
peculiarity of his character lies in a constant realization of the fact
that he is absolutely free from every form or principle of faith,
every conventional tie, every duty founded on aught save the most
natural instincts. He revels in this freedom; it is to him like magic
armor, making him invulnerable to shafts which reach all around
him--nay, which render him supremely indifferent to death itself.
Whether this extreme of philosophical skepticism and stoicism could be
consistently and correctly attributed to a gypsy of the fifteenth
century, will be presently considered. Let me first quote those passages
in which the character is best set forth. I
     have spoken the last word that mortal ears shall listen to!'

That such a strain as this would be absurd from 'Mr. Petulengro,' or any other of the race
as portrayed by Borrow, is evident enough. Whether it is inappropriate, however, in the mouth
of one of the first corners of the people in Europe, of direct Hindustanee blood, is another
question. Let us examine it.

In his notes to 'Quentin Durward,' Scott declares his belief that there can be little doubt
that the first gypsies consisted originally of Hindus, who left their native land when it was
invaded by Timur or Tamerlane, and that their language is a dialect of Hindustanee. That the
gypsies were Hindus, and outcast Hindus or Pariahs at that, could be no secret to Scott. That
he should have made Hayraddin in his doctrines marvellously true to the very life to certain
of this class, indicates a degree either of knowledge or of intuition (it may have been either)
which is at least remarkable.

The reader has probably learned to consider the Hindu Pariah as a merely wretched outcast,
ignorant, vulgar, and oppressed. Such is not, however, exactly their status. Whatever their
social rank may be, the Pariahs--the undoubted ancestors of the gypsies--are the authors in
India of a great mass of philosophy and literature, embracing nearly all that land has ever
produced which is tinctured with independence or wit. In confirmation of which I beg leave
to cite the following passages from that extremely entertaining, well-edited, and elegantly
published little work, the 'Strange Surprising Adventures of the Venerable Goroo Simple and
his Five Disciples':

     'The literature of the Hindoos owes but little to the hereditary
     claimants to the sole possession of divine light and knowledge. On
     the contrary, with the many things which the Brahmins are forbidden
     to touch, all science, if left to them alone, would soon stagnate,
     and clever men, whose genius cannot be held in trammels, therefore
     soon become outcasts and swell the number of Pariars in
     consequence of their very pursuit of knowledge. * * * To the
     writings of the Poorrachchameiyans, a sect of Pariars odious in
     the eyes of a Brahman, the Tamuls owe the greater part of works on
     science. * * * To the Vallooran sect of Pariars, particularly
     shunned by the Brahmans, Hindoo literature is indebted almost
     exclusively for the many moral poems and books of aphorisms which
     are its chief pride.

     'This class of literature' (satiric humor and fables) 'emanated
     chiefly from those despised outcasts, the Pariars, the very men who
     (using keener spectacles than Dr. Robertson, our historian of
     Ancient India, did, who singularly became the panegyrist of Gentoo
     subdivisions) saw that to bind human intellect and human energy
     within the wire fences of Hindoo castes is as impossible as to shut
     up the winds of heaven in a temple built by man's hand, and boldly
     thought for themselves.'

Of the literary Vallooran Pariah outcasts and scientific Poorrachchameiyans, we know from the
best authority--Father Beschi--that they form society of six degrees or sects, the fifth of
which, when five Fridays occur in a month, celebrate it avec de grandes abominations, while
the sixth 'admits the real existence of nothing--except, perhaps, GOD.' This last is a mere
guess on the part of the good father. It is beyond conjecture that we have here another of
those strange Oriental sects, 'atheistic' in its highest school and identical in its nature
with that of the House of Wisdom of Cairo, and with the Templars; and if Scott's gypsy Hayraddin
Maugrabin is to be supposed one of that type of Hindu outcasts, which were of all others most
hateful to the orthodox Moslem invader, we cannot sufficiently admire the appropriateness with
which doctrines which were actually held by the most deeply initiated among the Pariahs were
put into his mouth. To have made a merely vulgar, nothing-believing, and as little reflecting
gypsy, as philosophical as the wanderer in 'Quentin Durward,' would have been absurd. There
is a vigor, an earnestness in his creed, which betrays culture and thought, and which is marvellously
appropriate if we regard him as a wandering scion of the outcast Pariah illuminati of India.

Did our author owe this insight to erudition or to poetic intuition? In either case we discover
a depth which few would have surmised. It was once said of Scott, that he was a millionaire
of genius whose wealth was all in small change--that his scenes and characters were all massed
from a vast collection of little details. This would be equivalent to declaring that he was
a great novelist without a great idea. Perhaps this is true, but the clairvoyance of genius
which seems to manifest itself in the two characters which I have already examined, and the
cautious manner in which he has treated them, would appear to prove that he possessed a rarer
gift than that of 'great ideas'--the power of controlling them. Such ideas may make reformers,
critics, politicians, essayists--but they generally ruin a novelist--and Scott knew it.

A third character belonging to the class under consideration, is Henbane Dwining, the 'pottingar,'
apothecary or 'leech,' in the novel of 'The Fair Maid of Perth.'

This man is rather developed by his deeds than his words, and these are prompted by two motives,
terrible vindictiveness and the pride of superior knowledge. He is vile from the former, and
yet almost heroic from the latter, for it is briefly impossible to make any man intensely self-reliant,
and base this self-reliance on great learning in men and books, without displaying in him some
elements of superiority. He is so radically bad that by contrast one of the greatest villains
in Scottish history, Sir John Ramorney, appears rather gray than black; and yet we dislike
him less than the knight, possibly because we know that men of the Dwining stamp, when they
have had the control of nations, often do good simply from the dictates of superior wisdom--the
wisdom of the serpent--which, no Ramorney ever did. The skill with which the crawling, paltry
leech controls his fierce lord; the contempt for his power and pride shown in Dwining's adroit
sneers, and above all, the ease with which the latter casts into the shade Ramorney's fancied
superiority in wickedness, is well set forth--and such a character could only have been conceived
by deep study of the motives and agencies which formed it. To do so, Scott had recourse to
the same Oriental source--the same fearful school of atheism which in another and higher form
gave birth to the Templar and the gypsy. I err, strictly speaking, therefore, when I speak
of this as the same Oriental school, though in a certain sense it had a common origin--that
of believing in the infinite power of human wisdom. Both are embraced indeed in the beguiling
eritis sicut Deus, 'ye shall be as GOD,' uttered by the serpent to Eve.

Quite subordinate as regards its position among the actors of the novel, yet extremely interesting
in a historical point of view, is the character of Jasper Dryfesdale the steward of the Douglas
family, in 'The Abbot.' In this man Scott has happily combined the sentiment of absolute feudal
devotion to his superiors with a gloomy fatalism learned 'among the fierce sectaries of Lower
Germany.' If carefully studied, Dryfesdale will be found to be, on the whole, the most morally
instructive character in the entire range of Scott's writings. In the first place, he illustrates
the fact, so little noted by the advocates of loyalty, aristocracy, 'devoted retainers,' and
'faithful vassals,' that all such fidelity carried beyond the balance of a harmony of interests,
results in an insensibility to moral accountability. Thus in the Southern States, masters often
refer with pride to the fact that a certain negro, who will freely pillage in other quarters,
will 'never steal at home.' History shows that the man who surrenders himself entirely to the
will of another begins at once to cast on his superior all responsibility for his own acts.
Such dependence and evasion is of itself far worse than the bold unbelief which is to the last
degree self-reliant; which seeks no substitute, dreads no labor, scorns all mastery, and aims
at the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. Such unbelief may possibly end in
finding religious truth after its devious errors, but what shall be said of those who would
have men sin as slaves?

Singularly and appropriately allied to a resignation of moral accountability from feudal attachment,
is the contemptible and cowardly doctrine of fatalism, which Dryfesdale also professes. It
is not with him the philosophic doctrine of the concurring impulses of circumstance, or of
natural laws, but rather the stupendously nonsensical notion of the Arabian kismet, that from
the beginning of time every event was fore-arranged as in a fairy tale, and that all which
is, is simply the acting out of a libretto written before the play began--a belief revived
in the last century by readers of Leibnitz, who were truer than the great German himself to
the consequences of his doctrine, which he simply evaded.[15] In coupling this humiliating
and superstitious means of evading moral accountability with the same principle as derived
from feudal devotion, Scott, consciously or unconsciously, displayed genius, and at the same
time indirectly attacked that system of society to which he was specially devoted. So true
is it that genius instinctively tends to set forth the truth, be the predilections of its possessor
what they may. And indeed, as Scott nowhere shows in any way that he, for his part, regarded
the blind fidelity of the steward as other than admirable, it may be that he was guided rather
by instinct than will, in thus pointing out the great evil resulting from a formally aristocratic
state of society. Such as it is, it is well worth studying in these times, when the principles
of republicanism and aristocracy are brought face to face at war among us, firstly in the contest
between the South and the North, and secondly in the rapidly growing division between the friends
of the Union, and the treasonable 'Copperheads,' who consist of men of selfish, aristocratic
tendencies, and their natural allies, the refuse of the population.

It is very unfortunate that the term 'Anabaptists' should have ever been applied to the ferocious
fanatics led by John of Leyden, Knipperdolling, and Rothmann, since it has brought discredit
on a large sect bearing the same name with which it had in reality even less in common than
the historians of the latter imagine. It is not a difficult matter for the mind familiar with
the undoubted Oriental origin of the 'heresies' of the middle ages, to trace in the origin
at least of the fierce and licentious socialists of Münster the same secret influence which,
flowing from Gnostic, Manichæan, or Templar sources, founded the Waldense and Albigense sects,
and was afterward perceptible in a branch of the Hussites. At the time of the Reformation their
ancient doctrines had subsided into Biblical fanaticism; but the old leaven of revolt against
the church, and against all compulsion--keenly sharpened by their experiences, in the recent
Peasant's War--was as hot as ever among them. They had no great or high philosophy, but were
in all respects chaotic, contradictory, and stormy. Unable to rise to the cultivated and philanthropic
feelings which accompanied the skepticism of their remote founders, they based their denial
of moral accountability--as narrow and vulgar minds naturally do--on a predestination, which
is as insulting to GOD as to man, since it is consistently comprehensible only by supposing
HIM a slave to destiny. Among such vassals to a worse than earthly tyranny, the man who as
'a Scottish servant regarded not his own life or that of any other save his master,' would
find doctrines congenial enough to his grovelling nature. The four which I have examined are
each a curious subject for study, and indicate, collectively and compared, a train of thought
which I believe that few have suspected in Scott, notwithstanding his well-known great love
for the curious and occult in literature. That he perfectly understood that absurd and vain
character, the so-called 'infidel,' whose philosophy is limited to abusing Christianity, and
whose real object is to be odd and peculiar, and astonish humble individuals with his wickedness,
is most amusingly shown in 'Bletson,' one of the three Commissioners of Cromwell introduced
into 'Woodstock.' Scott has drawn this very subordinate character in remarkable detail, having
devoted nearly seven pages to its description,[16] evidently being for once carried away by
the desire of rendering the personality as clearly as possible, or of gratifying his own fancy.
And while no effort is ever made to cast even a shadow of ridicule on the Knight Templar, on
Dryfesdale, on the gypsy, or even on the crawling Dwining, he manifestly takes great pains
to render as contemptible and laughably absurd as possible this type of the very great majority
of modern infidels, who disavow religion because they fear it, and ridicule Christianity from
sheer, shallow ignorance. Our own country at present abounds in 'Bletsons,' in conceited, ignorant
'infidel' scribblers of many descriptions, in of all whom we can still trace the cant and drawl
of the old-fashioned fanaticism to which they are in reality nearly allied, while they appear
to oppose it. For the truth is, that popular infidelity--to borrow Mr. Caudle's simile of tyrants--is
only Puritanism turned inside out. We see this, even when it is masked in French flippancy
and the Shibboleth of the current accomplishments of literature--it betrays itself by its vindictiveness
and conceit, by its cruelty, sarcasms, and meanness--with the infidel as with the bigot. The
sincere seeker for truth, whether he wander through the paths of unbelief or of faith, never
forgets to love, never courts notoriety, and is neither a satirical court-fool nor a would-be
Mephistopheles.

In reflecting on these characters, I am irresistibly reminded of an anecdote illustrating their
nature. A friend of mine who had employed a rather ignorant fellow to guide him through some
ruins in England, was astonished, as he entered a gloomy dungeon, at the sudden remark, in
the hollow voice of one imparting a dire confidence, of: 'I doan't believe in hany GOD!' 'Don't
you, indeed?' was the placid reply. 'Noa,' answered the guide; 'H'I'm a HINFIDEL!' 'Well, I
hope you feel easy after it,' quoth my friend.

There is yet another skeptic set forth by Scott, whose peculiarities may be deemed worthy of
examination. I refer to Agelastes, the treacherous and hypocritical sage of 'Count Robert of
Paris.' In this man we have, however, rather the refined sensualist and elegant scholar who
amuses himself with the subtleties of the old Greek philosophy, than a sincere seeker for truth,
or even a sincere doubter. A contempt for the vulgar, or at best a selfish rendering of life
agreeable to themselves, is all that is gathered from such systems of doubt--and this was in
all ages the reproach of all Greek philosophy. It was not meant for the multitude nor for the
barbarian. It embraced no hope of benefiting all mankind, no scheme for even freeing them from
superstition. Such ideas were only cherished by the Orientals, and (though mingled with errors)
subsequently and fully by the early Christians. It was in the East that the glorious doctrine
of love for all beings, not only for enemies, but for the very fiends themselves, was first
proclaimed as essential to perfect the soul--as shown in the beautiful Hindu poem of 'The Buddha's
Victory,'[17] in which the demon Wassywart, that horror of horrors, whose eyes are clots of
blood, whose voice outroars the thunder, who plucks up the sun from its socket the sky, defies
the great saint-god to battle:

  'The unarmed Buddha mildly gazed at him,
  And said in peace: 'Poor fiend, even thee I love.'
  Before great Wassywart the world grew dim;
  His bulk enormous dwindled to a dove. * * *
  --Celestial beauty sat on Buddhas face,
  While sweetly sang the metamorphosed dove:
  'Swords, rocks, lies, fiends, must yield to moveless love,
  And nothing can withstand the Buddha's grace.'

And again, in 'The Secret of Piety'--the secret 'of all the lore which angelic bosoms swell'--we
have the same pure faith:

  'Whoso would careless tread one worm that crawls the sod,
  That cruel man is darkly alienate from God;
  But he that lives embracing all that is in love,
  To dwell with him God bursts all bounds, below, above.'

The Greek philosophy knew nothing of all this, and the result is that even in the atheism which
sprang from the East, and in its harshest and lowest 'tinctures,' we find a something nobler
and less selfish than is to be found in the school of Plato himself. And however this may be,
the reader will admit, in examining the six skeptics set forth by Scott, that each is a character
firmly based in historical truth; that all, with the exception of 'Bletson,' are sketched with
remarkable brevity; and that a careful comparative analysis of the whole gives us a deeper
insight into the secret tendencies of the author's mind, and at the same time into the springs
of his genius, than the world has been wont to take. And the study of the subject is finally
interesting, since we may learn from it that even in the works of one who is a standard poetic
authority among those who would, if possible, subject all men to feudalism, we may learn lessons
of that highest social truth--republicanism.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: OVID. Metamorphoseon, lib. xi. v. 183.]

[Footnote 11: Hæc autem erat Gnosticorum doctrina ethica, quod omnem virtutem in prudentia
sitim esse credebant, quam Ophitæ per Metem (Sophiam) et Serpentem exprimebant, desumpto iterum
ex Evangelii præcepto; estote prudentes ut serpentes,--ob innatem hujus animalis astutiam?--VON
HAMMER, Fundgruben des Orients, tom. vi. p. 85.]

[Footnote 12: New Curiosities of Literature. By GEO. SOANE, London, 1849.]

[Footnote 13: Developpement des Abus introduits dans la Franc Maçonnerie. Ecossois de Saint
ANDRÉ d'Écosse, &c., &c. Paris, 1780.]

[Footnote 14: London. Trübner &. Co., No. 60 Paternoster Row. 1861.]

[Footnote 15: 'Tota hæc humanæ vitæ fabula, quæ universitatem naturæ et generis humani historiam
constituit tota prius in intellectu divino præconcepta fuit cum infinitis aliis.'--LEIBNITZ,
Theodicæa, part 11, p. 149.]

[Footnote 16: Tickner and Fields' edition of Waverley Novels, Boston, 1858.]

[Footnote 17: The Poetry of the East. By WILLIAM ROUNSEVILLE ALGER. Boston. Whittemore, Niles
& Hall, 1856.]

A CHORD OF WOOD.

  Well, New York, you've made your pile
  Of Wood, and, if you like, may smile:
  Laugh, if you will, to split your sides,
  But in that Wood pile a nigger hides,
  With a double face beneath his hood:
  Don't hurra till you're out of your Wood.

A MERCHANT'S STORY.

  'All of which I saw, and part of which I was.'

CHAPTER XIX.

The moon and the stars were out, and the tall, dark pines cast long, gloomy shadows over the
little rows of negro houses which formed the rearguard to Preston's mansion. They were nearly
deserted. Not a solitary fire slumbered on the bare clay hearths, and not a single darky stood
sentry over the loose pork and neglected hoecakes, or kept at bay the army of huge rats and
prowling opossums which beleaguered the quarters. Silence--death's music--was over and around
them. The noisy revelry of the dancers had died away in the distance, and even the hoarse song
of the great trees had sunk to a low moan as they stood, motionless and abashed, in the presence
of the grim giant who knocks alike at the palace and the cottage gate.

A stray light glimmered through the logs of a low hut, far off in the woods, and, making our
way to it, we entered. A bright fire lit up the interior, and on a rude cot, in one corner,
lay the old preacher. His eyes were closed; a cold, clammy sweat was on his forehead--he was
dying. One of his skeleton hands rested on the tattered coverlet, and his weazened face was
half buried in a dilapidated pillow, whose ragged casing and protruding plumage bespoke it
a relic of some departed white sleeper.

An old negress, with gray hair and haggard visage, sat at the foot of the bed, wailing piteously;
and Joe and half a dozen aged saints stood around, singing a hymn, doleful enough to have made
even a sinner weep.

Not heeding our entrance, Joe took the dying man by the hand, and, in a slow, solemn voice, said:

'Brudder Jack, you'm dyin'; you'm gwine ter dat lan' whence no trabeller returns; you'm settin'
out fur dat country which'm lit by de smile ob de Lord; whar dar ain't no sickness, no pain,
no sorrer, no dyin'; fur dat kingdom whar de Lord reigns; whar trufh flows on like a riber;
whar righteousness springs up like de grass, an' lub draps down like de dew, an' cobers de
face ob de groun'; whar you woan't gwo 'bout wid no crutch; whar you woan't lib in no ole cabin
like dis, an' eat hoecake an' salt pork in sorrer an' heabiness ob soul; but whar you'll run
an' not be weary, an' walk an' not be faint; whar you'll hab a hous'n builded ob de Lord, an'
sit at His table--you' meat an' drink de bread an' de water ob life!

'I knows you's a sinner, Jack; I knows you's lub'd de hot water too much, an' dat it make you
forgit you' duty sometime, an' set a bad 'zample ter dem as looked up ter you fur better tings;
but dar am mercy wid de Lord, Jack; dar am forgibness wid Him; an' I hopes you'm ready an'
willin' ter gwo.'

Old Jack opened his eyes, and, in a low, peevish tone, said:

'Joe, none ob you' nonsense ter me! I'se h'ard you talk dis way afore. You can't preach--you
neber could. You jess knows I ain't fit ter trabble, an' I ain't willin' ter gwo, nowhar.'

Joe mildly rebuked him, and again commenced expatiating on the 'upper kingdom,' and on the
glories of 'the house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens;' but the old darky cut him
short, with--

'Shet up, Joe! no more ob dat. I doan't want no oder hous'n but dis--dis ole cabin am good
'nuff fur me.'

Joe was about to reply, when Preston stepped to the bedside, and, taking the aged preacher's
hand, said:

'My good Jack, master Robert has come to see you.'

The dying man turned his eyes toward his master, and, in a weak, tremulous voice, exclaimed:

'Oh! massa Robert, has you come? has you come ter see ole Jack? Bress you, massa Robert, bress
you! Jack know'd you'd neber leab him yere ter die alone.'

'No, my good Jack; I would save you if I could.'

'But you can't sabe me, massa Robert; I'se b'yond dat. I'se dyin', massa Robert. I'se gwine
ter de good missus. She tell'd me ter get ready ter foller har, an' I is. I'se gwine ter har
now, massa Robert!'

'I know you are, Jack. I feel sure you are.'

'Tank you, massa Robert--tank you fur sayin' dat. An' woan't you pray fur me, massa Robert--jess
a little pray? De good man's prayer am h'ard, you knows, massa Robert.'

All kneeling down on the rough floor, Preston prayed--a short, simple, fervent prayer. At its
close, he rose, and, bending over the old negro, said:

'The Lord is good, Jack; His mercy is everlasting.'

'I knows dat; I feels dat,' gasped the dying man. 'I lubs you, massa Robert; I allers lub'd
you; but I'se gwine ter leab you now. Bress you! de Lord bress you, massa Robert' I'll tell
de good missus'--

He clutched convulsively at his master's hand; a wild light came out of his eyes; a sudden
spasm passed over his face, and--he was 'gone whar de good darkies go.'

CHAPTER XX.

On the following day Frank and I were to resume our journey; and, in the morning, I suggested
that we should visit Colonel Dawsey, with whom, though he had for many years been a correspondent
of the house in which I was a partner, I had no personal acquaintance.

His plantation adjoined Preston's, and his house was only a short half mile from my friend's.
After breakfast, we set out for it through the woods. The day was cold for the season, with
a sharp, nipping air, and our overcoats were not at all uncomfortable.

As we walked along I said to Preston:

'Dawsey's 'account' is a good one. He never draws against shipments, but holds on, and sells
sight drafts, thus making the exchange.'

'Yes, I know; he's a close calculator.'

'Does he continue to manage his negroes as formerly?'

'In much the same way, I reckon.'

'Then he can't stand remarkably well with his neighbors.'

'Oh! people round here don't mind such things. Many of them do as badly as he. Besides, Dawsey
is a gentleman of good family. He inherited his plantation and two hundred hands.'

'Indeed! How, then, did he become reduced to his present number?'

'He was a wild young fellow, and, before he was twenty-five, had squandered and gambled away
everything but his land and some thirty negroes. Then he turned square round, and, from being
prodigal and careless, became mean and cruel. He has a hundred now, and more ready money than
any planter in the district.'

A half hour's walk took us to Dawsey's negro quarters--a collection of about thirty low huts
in the rear of his house. They were not so poor as some I had seen on cotton and rice plantations,
but they seemed unfit for the habitation of any animal but the hog. Their floors were the bare
ground, hardened by being moistened with water and pounded with mauls; and worn, as they were,
several inches lower in the centre than at the sides, they must have formed, in rainy weather,
the beds of small lakes. So much water would have been objectionable to white tenants; but
negroes, like their friends the alligators, are amphibious animals; and Dawsey's were never
known to make complaint. The chimneys were often merely vent-holes in the roof, though a few
were tumble-down structures of sticks and clay; and not a window, nor an opening which courtesy
could have christened a window, was to be seen in the entire collection. And, for that matter,
windows were useless, for the wide crevices in the logs, which let in the air and rain, at
the same time might admit the light. Two or three low beds at one end, a small pine bench,
which held half a dozen wooden plates and spoons, and a large iron pot, resting on four stones,
over a low fire, and serving for both washtub and cook-kettle, composed the furniture of each
interior.

No one of the cabins was over sixteen feet square, but each was 'home' and 'shelter' for three
or four human beings. Walking on a short distance, we came to a larger hovel, in front of which
about a dozen young chattels were playing. Seven or eight more, too young to walk, were crawling
about on the ground inside. They had only one garment apiece--a long shirt of coarse linsey--and
their heads and feet were bare. An old negress was seated in the doorway, knitting. Approaching
her, I said:

'Aunty, are not these children cold?'

'Oh! no, massa; dey'm use' ter de wedder.'

'Do you take care of all of them?'

'In de daytime I does, massa. In de night dar mudders takes de small 'uns.'

'But some of them are white. Those two are as white as I am!'

'No, massa; dey'm brack. Ef you looks at dar eyes an' dar finger nails, you'll see dat.'

'They're black, to be sure they are,' said young Preston, laughing; 'but they're about as white
as Dawsey, and look wonderfully like him--eh, aunty Sue?'

'I reckons, massa Joe!' replied the woman, running her hand through her wool, and grinning widely.

'What does he ask for them, aunty?'

'Doan't know, massa, but 'spect dey'm pooty high. Dem kine am hard ter raise.'

'Yes,' said Joe; 'white blood--even Dawsey's--don't take naturally to mud.'

'I reckons not, massa Joe!' said the old negress, with another grin.

Joe gave her a half-dollar piece, and, amid an avalanche of blessings, we passed on to Dawsey's
'mansion'--if mansion it could be called--a story-and-a-half shanty, about thirty feet square,
covered with rough, unpainted boards, and lit by two small, dingy windows. It was approached
by a sandy walk, and the ground around its front entrance was littered with apple peelings,
potato parings, and the refuse of the culinary department.

Joe rapped at the door, and, in a moment, it opened, and a middle-aged mulatto woman appeared.
As soon as she perceived Preston, she grasped his two hands, and exclaimed:

'Oh! massa Robert, do buy har! Massa'll kill har, ef you doan't.'

'But I can't, Dinah. Your master refuses my note, and I haven't the money now.'

'Oh! oh! He'll kill har; he say he will. She woan't gib in ter him, an' he'll kill har, shore.
Oh! oh!' cried the woman, wringing her hands, and bursting into tears.

'Is it 'Spasia?' asked Joe.

'Yas, massa Joe; it'm 'Spasia. Massa hab sole yaller Tom 'way from har, an' he swar he'll kill
har 'case she woan't gib in ter him. Oh! oh!'

'Where is your master?'

'He'm 'way wid har an' Black Cale. I reckon dey'm down ter de branch. I reckon dey'm whippin'
on har now!'

'Come, Frank,' cried Joe, starting off at a rapid pace; 'let's see that performance.'

'Hold on, Joe; wait for us. You'll get into trouble!' shouted his father, hurrying after him.
The rest of us caught up with them in a few moments, and then all walked rapidly on in the
direction of the small run which borders the two plantations.

Before we had gone far, we heard loud screams, mingled with oaths and the heavy blows of a
whip. Quickening our pace, we soon reached the bank of the little stream, which there was lined
with thick underbrush. We could see no one, and the sounds had subsided. In a moment, however,
a rough voice called out from behind the bushes:

'Have you had enough? Will you give up?'

'Oh! no, good massa; I can't do dat!' was the half-sobbing, half-moaning reply.

'Give it to her again, Cale!' cried the first voice; and again the whip descended, and again
the piercing cries: 'O Lord!' 'Oh, pray doan't!' 'O Lord, hab mercy!' 'Oh! good massa, hab
mercy!' mingled with the falling blows.

'This way!' shouted Joe, pressing through the bushes, and bounding down the bank toward the
actors in this nineteenth-century tournament, wherein an armed knight and a doughty squire
were set against a weak, defenceless woman.

Leaning against a pine at a few feet from the edge of the run, was a tall, bony man of about
fifty. His hair was coarse and black, and his skin the color of tobacco-juice. He wore the
ordinary homespun of the district; and long, deep lines about his mouth and under his eyes
told the story of a dissipated life. His entire appearance was anything but prepossessing.

At the distance of three or four rods, and bound to the charred trunk of an old tree, was a
woman, several shades lighter than the man. Her feet were secured by stout cords, and her arms
were clasped around the blackened stump, and tied in that position. Her back was bare to the
loins, and, as she hung there, moaning with agony, and shivering with cold, it seemed one mass
of streaming gore.

The brawny black, whom Boss Joe had so eccentrically addressed at the negro meeting, years
before, was in the act of whipping the woman; but with one bound, young Preston was on him.
Wrenching the whip from his hand, he turned on his master, crying out:

'Untie her, you white-livered devil, or I'll plough your back as you've ploughed hers!'

'Don't interfere here, you d--d whelp!' shouted Dawsey, livid with rage, and drawing his revolver.

'I'll give you enough of that, you cowardly hound!' cried Joe, taking a small Derringer from
his pocket, and coolly advancing upon Dawsey.

The latter levelled his pistol, but, before he could fire, by a dexterous movement of my cane,
I struck it from his hand. Drawing instantly a large knife, he rushed on me. The knife was
descending--in another instant I should have 'tasted Southern steel,' had not Frank caught
his arm, wrenched the weapon from his grasp, and with the fury of an aroused tiger, sprung
on him and borne him to the ground. Planting his knee firmly on Dawsey's breast, and twisting
his neckcloth tightly about his throat, Frank yelled out:

'Stand back. Let me deal with him!'

'But you will kill him.'

'Well, he would have killed you!' he cried, tightening his hold on Dawsey's throat.

'Let him up, Frank. Let the devil have fair play,' said Joe; 'I'll give him a chance at ten paces.'

'Yes, let him up, my son; he is unarmed.'

Frank slowly and reluctantly released his hold, and the woman-whipper rose. Looking at us for
a moment--a mingled look of rage and defiance--he turned, without speaking, and took some rapid
strides up the bank.

'Hold on, Colonel Dawsey!' cried Joe, elevating his Derringer; 'take another step, and I'll
let daylight through you. You've just got to promise you won't whip this woman, or take your
chance at ten paces.'

[I afterward learned that Joe was deadly sure with the pistol.]

Dawsey turned slowly round, and, in a sullen tone, asked:

'Who are you, gentlemen, that interfere with my private affairs?'

'My name, sir, is Kirke, of New York; and this young man is my son.'

'Not Mr. Kirke, my factor?'

'The same, sir.'

'Well, Mr. Kirke, I'm sorry to say you're just now in d--d pore business.'

'I have been, sir. I've done yours for some years, and I'm heartily ashamed of it. I'll try
to mend in that particular, however.'

'Well, no more words, Colonel Dawsey,' said Joe. 'Here's a Derringer, if you'd like a pop at me.'

'Tain't an even chance,' replied Dawsey; 'you know it.'

'Take it, or promise not to whip the woman. I won't waste more time on such a sneaking coward
as you are.'

Dawsey hesitated, but finally, in a dogged way, made the required promise, and took himself off.

While this conversation was going on, Preston and the negro man had untied the woman. Her back
was bleeding profusely, and she was unable to stand. Lifting her in their arms, the two conveyed
her to the top of the bank, and then, making a bed of their coats, laid her on the ground.
We remained there until the negro returned from the house with a turpentine wagon, and conveyed
the woman 'home.' We then returned to the plantation, and that afternoon, accompanied by Frank
and Joe, I resumed my journey.

By way of episode, I will mention that the slave woman, after being confined to her bed several
weeks, recovered. Then Dawsey renewed his attack upon her, and, from the effects of a second
whipping, she died.

CHAPTER XXI.

Returning from the South a few weeks after the events narrated in the previous chapter, Frank
and I were met at Goldsboro by Preston and Selma, when the latter accompanied us to the North,
and once more resumed her place in David's family.

On the first of February following, Frank, then not quite twenty-one, was admitted a partner
in the house of Russell, Rollins, & Co., and, in the succeeding summer, was sent to Europe
on business of the firm. Shortly after his return, in the following spring, he came on from
Boston with a proposal from Cragin that I should embark with them and young Preston in an extensive
speculation. Deeming any business in which Cragin was willing to engage worthy of careful consideration,
I listened to Frank's exposition of the plan of operations. He had originated the project,
and in it he displayed the comprehensive business mind and rare blending of caution and boldness
which characterized his father. As the result of this transaction had an important influence
on the future of some of the actors in my story, I will detail its programme.

It was during the Crimean war. The Russian ports were closed, and Great Britain and the Continent
of Europe were dependent entirely on the Southern States for their supply of resinous articles.
The rivers at the South were low, and it was not supposed they would rise sufficiently to float
produce to market before the occurrence of the spring freshets, in the following April or May.
Only forty thousand barrels of common rosin were held in Wilmington--the largest naval-store
port in the world; and it was estimated that not more than two hundred thousand were on hand
in the other ports of Savannah, Ga., Georgetown, S. C., Newbern and Washington, N. C., and
in New York, Boston, and Philadelphia. Very little was for sale in London, Liverpool, or Glasgow,
the largest foreign markets for the article; and Frank thought that a hundred and fifty thousand
barrels could be purchased. That quantity, taken at once out of market, would probably so much
enhance the value of the article, that the operation would realize a large profit before the
new crop came forward. The purchases were to be made simultaneously in the various markets,
and about two hundred thousand dollars were required to carry through the transaction. One
hundred thousand of this was to be furnished in equal proportions by the parties interested;
the other hundred thousand would be realized by Joseph Preston's negotiating 'long exchange'
on Russell, Rollins & Co.

I declined to embark in the speculation, but the others carried it out as laid down in the
programme; the only deviation being that, at Frank's suggestion, Mr. Robert Preston was apprised
of the intended movement, and allowed to purchase, on his own account, as much produce as could
be secured in Newbern. He bought about seven thousand barrels, paid for them by drawing at
ninety days on Russell, Rollins, & Co., and held them for sale at Newbern, agreeing to satisfy
his drafts with the proceeds. These drafts amounted to a trifle over eighty-two hundred dollars.

About a month after this transaction was entered into, our firm received the following letter
from Preston:

     'GENTLEMEN: An unfortunate difference with my son prevents my
     longer using him as my indorser. I have not, as yet, been able to
     secure another; and, our banks requiring two home names on time
     drafts, I have to beg you to honor a small bill at one day's sight.
     I have drawn for one thousand dollars. Please honor.'

To this I at once replied:

     'DEAR SIR: We have advice of your draft for one thousand dollars.
     To protect your credit, we shall pay it; but we beg you will draw
     no more, till you forward bills of lading.

     'You are now overdrawn some five thousand dollars, which, by the
     maturing of your drafts, has become a cash advance. The death of
     our senior, Mr. Randall, and the consequent withdrawal of his
     capital, has left us with an extended business and limited means.
     Money, also, is very tight, and we therefore earnestly beg you to
     put us in funds at the earliest possible moment.'

No reply was received to this letter; but, about ten days after its transmission, Preston himself
walked into my private office. His clothes were travel stained, and he appeared haggard and
careworn. I had never seen him look so miserably.

He met me cordially, and soon referred to the state of his affairs. His wife, the winter before,
had agreed to reside permanently at Newbern, and content herself with an allowance of three
thousand dollars annually; but at the close of the year he found that she had contracted debts
to the extent of several thousand more. He was pressed for these debts; his interest was in
arrears, and he could raise no money for lack of another indorser. Ruin stared him in the face,
unless I again put my shoulder to the wheel, and pried him out of the mire. The turpentine
business was not paying as well as formerly, but the new plantation was encumbered with only
the original mortgage--less than six thousand dollars--and was then worth, owing to an advance
in the value of land, fully twenty thousand. He would secure me by a mortgage on that property,
but I must allow the present indebtedness to stand, and let him increase it four or five thousand
dollars. That amount would extricate him from present difficulties; and, to avoid future embarrassments,
he would take measures for a legal separation from his wife.

I heard him through, and then said:

'I cannot help you, my friend. I am very sorry; but my own affairs are in a most critical state.
I owe over a hundred thousand dollars, maturing within twenty days, and my present available
resources are not more than fifty thousand. I have three hundred thousand worth of produce
on hand, but the market is so depressed that I cannot realize a dollar upon it. The banks have
shut down, and money is two per cent. a month in the street. What you owe us would aid me wonderfully;
but I can rub through without it. That much I can bear, but not a dollar more.'

He walked the room for a time, and was silent; then, turning to me, he said--each separate
word seeming a groan:

'I have cursed every one I ever loved, and now I am bringing trouble--perhaps disaster--upon
you, the only real friend I have left.'

'Pshaw! my good fellow, don't talk in that way. What you owe us is only a drop in the bucket.
We have made twice that amount out of you; so give yourself no uneasiness, if you never pay it.'

'But I must pay it--I shall pay it;' and, continuing to pace the room silently for a few moments,
he added, giving me his hand: 'Good-by; I'm going back to-night.'

'Back to-night!--without seeing Selly, or my wife? You are mad!'

'I must go.'

'You must not go. You are letting affairs trouble you too much. Come, go home with me, and
see Kate. A few words from her will make a new man of you.'

'No, no; I must go back at once. I must raise this money somehow.'

'Send money to the dogs! Come with me, and have a good night's rest. You'll think better of
this in the morning. And now it occurs to me that Kate has about seven thousand belonging to
Frank. He means to settle it on Selly when they are married, and she might as well have it
first as last. Perhaps you can get it now.'

'But I might be robbing my own child.'

'You can give the farm as security; it's worth twice the amount.'

'Well, I'll stay. Let us see your wife at once.'

While we were seated in the parlor, after supper, I broached the subject of Preston's wants
to Kate. She heard me through attentively, and then quietly said:

'Frank is of age--he can do as he pleases; but I would not advise him to make the loan. I once
heard my father scout at the idea of taking security on property a thousand miles away. I would
not wound Mr. Preston's feelings, but--his wife's extravagance has led him into this difficulty,
and her property should extricate him from it. Her town house, horses, and carriages should
be sold. She ought to be made to feel some of the mortification she has brought upon him.'

Preston's face brightened; a new idea seemed to strike him. 'You are right. I will sell everything.'
His face clouded again, as he continued: 'But I cannot realize soon enough. Your husband needs
money at once.'

'Never mind me; I can take care of myself. But what is this trouble with Joe? Tell me, I will
arrange it. Everything can go on smoothly again.'

'It cannot be arranged. There can be no reconciliation between us.'

'What prevents? Who is at fault--you, or he?'

'I am. He will never forgive me!'

'Forgive you! I can't imagine what you have done, that admits of no forgiveness.'

He rose, and walked the room for a while in gloomy silence, then said:

'I will tell you. It is right you should know. You both should know the sort of man you have
esteemed and befriended for so many years;' and, resuming his seat, he related the following
occurrences:

'Everything went on as usual at the plantation, till some months after Rosey's marriage to
Ally. Then a child was born to them. It was white. Rosey refused to reveal its father, but
it was evidently not her husband. Ally, being a proud, high-spirited fellow, took the thing
terribly to heart. He refused to live with his wife, or even to see her. I tried to reconcile
them, but without success. Old Dinah, who had previously doted on Rosey, turned about, and
began to beat and abuse her cruelly. To keep the child out of the old woman's way, I took her
into the house, and she remained there till about two months ago. Then, one day, Larkin, the
trader, of whom you bought Phylly and the children, came to me, wanting a woman house-servant.
I was pressed for money, and I offered him--a thing I never did before--two or three of my
family slaves. They did not suit, but he said Rosey would, and proposed to buy her and the
child. I refused. He offered me fifteen hundred dollars for them, but I still refused. Then
he told me that he had spoken to the girl, and she wished him to buy her. I doubted it, and
said so; but he called Rosey to us, and she confirmed it, and, in an excited way, told me she
would run away, or drown herself, if I did not sell her. She said she could live no longer
on the same plantation with Ally. I told her I would send Ally away; but she replied: 'No;
I am tired of this place. I have suffered so much here, I want to get away. I shall go; whether
alive or dead, is for you to say.' I saw she was in earnest; I was hard pressed for money;
Larkin promised to get her a kind master, and--I sold her.'

'Sold her! My God! Preston, she was your own child!'

'I know it,' he replied, burying his face in his hands. 'The curse of GOD was on it; it has
been on me for years.' After a few moments, he added: 'But hear the rest, and you will curse
me, too.'

Overcome with emotion, he groaned audibly. I said nothing, and a pause of some minutes ensued.
Then, in a choked, broken voice, he continued:

'The rosin transaction had been gone into. I had used up what blank indorsements I had. Needing
more, and wanting to consult with Joe about selling the rosin, I went to Mobile. It was five
weeks ago. I arrived there about dark, and put up at the Battle House. Joe had boarded there.
I was told he had left, and gone to housekeeping. A negro conducted me to a small house in
the outskirts of the town. He said Joe lived there. Wishing to surprise him, I went in without
knocking. The house had two parlors, separated by folding doors. In the back one a young woman
was clearing away the tea things; in the front one, Joe was seated by the fire, with a young
child on his knee. I put my hand on his shoulder, and said: 'Joe, whose child have you here?'
He looked up, and laughingly said: 'Why, father, you ought to know; you've seen it before!'
I looked closely at it--it was Rosey's! I said so. 'Yes, father,' he replied; 'and there's
Rosey herself. Larkin promised she should have a kind master, and--he kept his word.' The truth
flashed upon me--the child was his! My only son had seduced his own sister! I staggered back
in horror. I told him who Rosey was, and then'--no words can express the intense agony depicted
on his face as he said this--'then he cursed me! O my God! HE CURSED ME!'

I pitied him, I could but pity him; and I said:

'Do not be so cast down, my friend. I once heard you say: 'The Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting!''

'But he cannot have mercy on some!' he cried. 'My sins have been too great; they cannot be
blotted out. I embittered the life of my wife; I have driven my daughter from her home; sold
my own child; made my generous, noble-hearted boy do a horrible crime--a crime that will haunt
him forever. Oh! the curse of God is on me. My misery is greater than I can bear.'

'No, my friend; God curses none of his creatures. You have reaped what you have sown, that
is all; but you have suffered enough. Better things, believe me, are in store for you.'

'No, no; everything is gone--wife, children, all! I am alone--the past, nothing but remorse;
the future, ruin and dishonor!'

'But Selly is left you. She will always love you.'

'No, no! Even Selly would curse me, if she knew all!'

No one spoke for a full half hour, and he continued pacing up and down the room. When, at last,
he seated himself, more composed, I asked:

'What became of Rosey and the child?'

'I do not know. I was shut in my room for several days. When I got out, I was told Joe had
freed her, and she had disappeared, no one knew whither. I tried every means to trace her,
but could not. At the end of a week, I went home, what you see me--a broken-hearted man.'

The next morning, despite our urgent entreaties, he returned to the South.

       *       *       *       *       *

The twenty days were expiring. By hard struggling I had met my liabilities, but the last day--the
crisis--was approaching. Thirty thousand dollars of our acceptances had accumulated together,
and were maturing on that day. When I went home, on the preceding night, we had only nineteen
thousand in bank. I had exhausted all our receivables. Where the eleven thousand was to come
from, I did not know. Only one resource seemed left me--the hypothecation of produce; and a
resort to that, at that time, before warehouse receipts became legitimate securities, would
be ruinous to our credit. My position was a terrible one. No one not a merchant can appreciate
or realize it. With thousands upon thousands of assets, the accumulations of years, my standing
among merchants, and, what I valued more than all, my untarnished credit, were in jeopardy
for the want of a paltry sum.

I went home that night with a heavy heart; but Kate's hopeful words encouraged me. With her
and the children left to me, I need not care for the rest; all might go, and I could commence
again at the bottom of the hill. The next morning I walked down town with a firm spirit, ready
to meet disaster like a man. The letters by the early mail were on my desk. I opened them one
after another, hurriedly, eagerly. There were no remittances! I had expected at least five
thousand dollars. For a moment my courage failed me. I rose, and paced the room, and thoughts
like these passed through my mind: 'The last alternative has come. Pride must give way to duty.
I must hypothecate produce, and protect my correspondents. I must sacrifice myself to save
my friends!

'But here are two letters I have thrown aside. They are addressed to me personally. Mere letters
of friendship! What is friendship, at a time like this?--friendship without money! Pshaw! I
wouldn't give a fig for all the friends in the world!'

Mechanically I opened one of them. An enclosure dropped to the floor. Without pausing to pick
it up, I read:

     'DEAR FATHER: Mother writes me you are hard pressed. Sell my U. S.
     stock--it will realize over seven thousand. It is yours. Enclosed
     is Cragin's certified check for ten thousand. If you need more,
     draw on him, at sight, for any amount. He says he will stand by
     you to the death.

                                   'Love to mother.
                                              FRANK.'

     'P. S.--Fire away, old fellow! Hallet is ugly, but I'll go my pile
     on you, spite of the devil.
                                             CRAGIN.'

'SAVED! saved by my wife and child!' I leaned my head on my desk. When I rose, there were tears
upon it.

It wanted some minutes of ten, but I was nervously impatient to blot out those terrible acceptances.
I should then be safe; I should then breathe freely. As I passed out of my private office,
I opened the other letter. It was from Preston. Pausing a moment, I read it:

     'MY VERY DEAR FRIEND: I enclose you sight check of Branch Bank of
     Cape Fear on Bank of Republic, for $10,820. Apply what is needed to
     pay my account; the rest hold subject to my drafts.

     'I have sold my town house, furniture, horses, etc., and the
     proceeds will pay my home debts. I shall therefore not need to draw
     the balance for, say, sixty days. God bless you!'

'Well, the age of miracles is not passed! How did he raise the money?'

Stepping back into the private office, I called my partner:

'Draw checks for all the acceptances due to-day; get them certified, and take up the bills
at once. Don't let the grass grow under your feet. I shall be away the rest of the day, and
I want to see them before I go. Here is a draft from Preston; it will make our account good.'

He looked at it, and, laughing, said:

'Yes, and leave about fifty dollars in bank.'

'Well, never mind; we are out of the woods.'

When he had gone, I sat down, and wrote the following letter:

     'MY DEAR FRANK: I return Cragin's check, with many thanks. I have
     not sold your stock. My legitimate resources have carried me
     through.

     'I need not say, my boy, that I feel what you would have done for
     me. Words are not needed between us.

     'Tell Cragin that I consider him a trump--the very ace of hearts.

     'Your mother and I will see you in a few days.'

In half an hour, with the two letters in my pocket, I was on my way home. Handing them to Kate,
I took her in my arms; and, as I brushed the still bright, golden hair from her broad forehead,
I felt I was the richest man living.

       *       *       *       *       *

Within the same week I went to Boston. I arrived just after dark; and then occurred the events
narrated in the first chapter.

WAR.

[J. G. PERCIVAL.]

  For war is now upon their shores,
    And we must meet the foe,
  Must go where battle's thunder roars,
    And brave men slumber low;
  Go, where the sleep of death comes on
    The proudest hearts, who dare
  To grasp the wreath by valor won,
    And glory's banquet share.

A CHAPTER ON WONDERS.

  'Obstupui! steteruntque comæ, et vox faucibus hæsit.'

There is a certain portion of mankind ever on the alert to see or hear some wonderful thing;
whose minds are attuned to a marvellous key, and vibrate with extreme sensitiveness to the
slightest touch; whose vital fluid is the air of romance, and whose algebraic symbol is a mark
of exclamation! This sentiment, existing in some persons to a greater degree than in others,
is often fostered by education and association, so as to become the all-engrossing passion.
Children, of course, begin to wonder as soon as their eyes are opened upon the strange scenes
of their future operations. The first thing usually done to develop their dawning intellect,
is to display before them such objects as are best calculated to arrest their attention, and
keep them in a continual state of excitement. This course is succeeded by a supply of all sorts
of toys, to gratify the passion of novelty. These are followed by wonderful stories, and books
of every variety of absurd impossibilities;--which system of development is, it would seem,
entirely based upon the presumption, that the faculty of admiration must be expanded, in order
that the young idea may best learn how to shoot. It is therefore quite natural, that--the predisposition
granted--a faculty of the mind so auspiciously nurtured under the influence of exaggeration
should mature in a corresponding degree.

Thus we have in our midst a class, into whose mental economy the faculty of wonder is so thoroughly
infused, that it has inoculated the entire system, and forms an inherent, inexplicable, and
almost elementary part of it. These persons sail about in their pleasure yachts, on roving
expeditions, under a pretended 'right of search,' armed to the teeth, and boarding all sorts
of crafts to obtain plunder for their favorite gratification. They are most uneasy and uncomfortable
companions, having no ear for commonplace subjects of conversation, and no eye for ordinary
objects of sight.

When such persons approach each other, they are mutually attracted, like two bodies charged
with different kinds of electricity--an interchange of commodities takes place, repulsion follows,
and thus reënforced, they separate to diffuse the supply of wonders collected.

By this centripetal and centrifugal process, the social atmosphere is subjected to a continual
state of agitation. Language is altogether too tame to give full effect to their meaning, and
all the varieties of dumb show, of gesticulation, shrugs, and wise shakes of the head, are
called into requisition, to effectually and unmistakably express their ideas. The usages of
good society are regarded by them as a great restraint upon their besetting propensity to expatiate
in phrases of grandiloquence, and to magnify objects of trivial importance. They are always
sure to initiate topics which will afford scope for admiration; they delight to enlarge upon
the unprecedented growth of cities, villages, and towns; upon the comparative prices of 'corner
lots' at different periods; and to calculate how rich they might have been, had they only known
as much then as now.

They experience a gratification when a rich man dies, that the wonder will now be solved as
to the amount of his property; and when a man fails in business, that it is now made clear--what
has so long perplexed them--'how he managed to live so extravagantly!' See them at an agricultural
fair, and they will be found examining the 'mammoth squashes' and various products of prodigious
growth--or they will install themselves as self-appointed exhibiter of the 'Fat Baby,' to inform
the incredulous how much it weighs! See them at a conflagration, and they wonder what was the
cause of the fire, and how far it will extend?

They long to travel, that they may visit 'mammoth caves' and 'Giant's Causeways.' We talk of
the 'Seven Wonders of the World,' while to them there is a successive series for every day
in the year--putting to the blush our meagre stock of monstrosities--making 'Ossa like a wart.'
Nothing gratifies them more than the issuing from the press of an anonymous work, that they
may exert their ingenuity in endeavoring to discover the author; and, when called on for information
on the subject, prove conclusively to every one but themselves, that they know nothing whatever
about the matter.

The ocean is to them only wonderful as the abode of 'Leviathans,' and 'Sea Serpents,' 'Krakens,'
and 'Mermaids'--abounding in 'Mäelstroms' and sunken islands, and traversed by 'Phantom Ships'
and 'Flying Dutchmen' in perpetual search for some 'lost Atlantis;'--all well-attested incredibilities,
certified to by the 'affidavits of respectable eye-witnesses,' and, we might add, by 'intelligent
contrabands,'--and all in strict conformity with the convenient aphorism 'Credo quia impossibile
est.' They are ever ready to bestow their amazement upon a fresh miracle as soon as the present
has had its day--like the man who, being landed at some distance by the explosion of a juggler's
pyrotechnics, rubbed his eyes open, and exclaimed, 'I wonder what the fellow will do next!'

If a steamboat explodes her boiler, or the walls of a factory fall, burying hundreds in the
ruins, their hearts--rendered callous by the constant stream of cold air pouring in through
their ever-open mouths--are not shocked at the calamity, but they wonder if it was insured!

The increase of population in this country affords a most prolific and inexhaustible fund for
statistical astonishment, as an interlude to the entertainment, while something more appalling
is being prepared.

The portentous omens so often relied on by the credulous believers in signs, have so frequently
proved 'dead failures,' that one would suppose these votaries would at length become disheartened.
But this seems not to be the case--like a quack doctor when his patient dies, their audacity
is equal to any emergency, and, with the elasticity of india rubber, they come out of a 'tight
squeeze' with undiminished rotundity. With stupid amazement, hair all erect, and ears likewise,
they pass through life as through a museum, ready to exclaim with Dominie Sampson at all they
cannot understand, 'Pro--di--gi--ous!'

It matters little, perhaps, in what form this principle is exhibited,
while it exists and flourishes in undiminished exuberance. Why so it would have done
  At the same season, if your mother's cat had
  But kittened, though yourself had ne'er been born.'

Glendower naturally enough flouts this rather impertinent comment, and 'repeats the story of
his birth' with still greater improvements, till Hotspur gives him a piece of advice which
will do for his whole race of the present day, viz., 'tell the truth, and shame the devil.'

The English people of this generation are rather more phlegmatic than their explosive neighbors
across the channel, and neither the injustice of black slavery abroad, nor the starvation of
white slaves at home, can shake them from their lop-sided neutrality, so long as money goes
into their pocket. The excitable French, on the contrary, require an occasional coup d'état
to arouse their conjectures as to the next imperial experiment in the art of international
diplomacy.

The press of the day teems with all sorts of provisions to satisfy the cravings of a depraved
imagination, and even the most sedate of our daily papers are not above employing 'double-leaded
Sensations,' and 'display Heads' as a part of their ordinary stock in trade; while from the
hebdomadals, 'Thrilling Tales,' 'Awful Disclosures,' and 'Startling Discoveries,' succeed each
other with truly fearful rapidity. Thus he who wastes the midnight kerosene, and spoils his
weary eyes in poring over the pages of trashy productions, so well designed to murder sleep,
may truly say with Macbeth, 'I have supp'd full with horrors.'

It is certainly remarkable (as an indication of the pleasure the multitude take in voluntarily
perplexing themselves), how eagerly they enter into all sorts of contrivances which conduce
to bewilderment and doubt. In 'Hampton Court' there is a famous enclosure called the 'Maze,'
so arranged with hedged alleys as to form a perfect labyrinth. To this place throngs of persons
are constantly repairing, to enjoy the luxury of losing themselves, and of seeing others in
the same predicament.

Some persons become so impatient of the constant demand upon their admiration, that they resist
whatever seems to lead in that direction. Washington Irving said he 'never liked to walk with
his host over the latter's ground'--a feeling which many will at once acknowledge having experienced.
A celebrated English traveller was so annoyed by the urgent invitations of the Philadelphians
to visit the Fairmount Water Works, that he resolved not to visit them, so that he might have
the characteristic satisfaction of recording the ill-natured fact. The most remarkable and
prominent wonders in the natural world seldom meet the expectation of the beholder, because
he looks to experience a new sensation, and is disappointed; and so with works of art, as St.
Peter's at Rome--

    ----'its grandeur overwhelms thee not,
  And why? it is not lessen'd; but thy mind,
  Expanded by the genius of the spot,
  Has grown colossal.'

Wonder is defined as 'the effect of novelty upon ignorance.' Most objects which excite wonder
are magnified by the distance or the point of view, and their proportions diminish and shrink
as we approach them. It is a saying as old as Horace, 'ignotum pro magnifico est': we cease
to wonder at what we understand. Seneca says that those whose habits are temperate are satisfied
with fountain water, which is cold enough for them; while those who have lived high and luxuriously,
require the use of ice. Thus a well-disciplined mind adjusts itself to whatever events may
occur, and not being likely to lose its equanimity upon ordinary occasions, is equally well
prepared for more serious results.

'Let us never wonder,' again saith Seneca, 'at anything we are born to; for no man has reason
to complain where we are all in the same condition.' But notwithstanding all the precepts of
philosophers, the advice of all men of sense, and the best examples for our guides, we go on,
with eyes dilated and minds wide open, to see, hear, and receive impressions through distorted
mediums, leading to wrong conclusions and endless mistakes.

'Wonders will never cease!' Of course they will not, so long as there are so many persons engaged
in providing the aliment for their sustenance; so long as the demand exceeds the supply; so
long as mankind are more disposed to listen to exaggeration rather than to simple truths, and
so long as they shall tolerate the race of wonder-mongers, giving them 'aid and comfort,' regardless
of their being enemies of our peace, and the pests of our social community.

THE RETURN.

  July,--what is the news they tell?
    A battle won: our eyes are dim,
  And sad forbodings press the heart
    Anxious, awaiting news from him.
  Hour drags on hour: fond heart, be still,
    Shall evil tidings break the spell?
  A word at last!--they found him dead;
    He fought in the advance, and fell.

  Oh aloes of affliction poured
    Into the wine cup of the soul!
  Oh bitterness of anguish stored
    To fill our grief beyond control!
  At last he comes, awaited long,
    Not to home welcomes warm and loud,
  Not to the voice of mirth and song,
    Pale featured, cold, beneath a shroud.

  Oh from the morrow of our lives
    A glowing hope has stolen away,
  A something from the sun has fled,
    That dims the glory of the day.
  More earnestly we look beyond
    The present life to that to be;
  Another influence draws the soul
    To long for that futurity.

  Pardon if anguished souls refrain
    Too little, grieving for the lost,
  From thinking dearly bought the gain
    Of victory at such fearful cost.
  Teach us as dearest gain to prize
    The glory crown he early won;
  Forever shall his requiem rise:
    Rest thee in peace, thy duty done.

THE UNION.

VI.

VIRGINIA AND PENNSYLVANIA COMPARED.

And yet, there are desperate leaders of the Peace party of Pennsylvania, desecrating the name
of Democrats, but, in fact, Tories and traitors, who would separate that glorious old commonwealth
from the North, and bid her sue in abject humiliation for admission as one of the Slave States
of the rebel confederacy. Shades of Penn and Franklin, and of the thousands of martyred patriots
of Pennsylvania who have fallen in defence of the Union from 1776 to 1863, forbid the terrible
degradation.

DOWN IN TENNESSEE.

Sultry and wearisome the day had been in that Tennessee valley, and after drill, we had laid
around under the trees--tall, noble trees they were--and the fresh grass was green and soft
under them as on the old 'Campus,' and we had been smoking and talking over a wide, wide range
of subjects, from deep Carlyleism--of which Carlyle doubtless never heard--to the significance
of the day's orders. It was not an inharmonious picture--Camp Alabama, so we had named it--for
it was with a 'here we rest' feeling that a dozen days before we had marched in at noon. The
ground sloped to the eastward--a single winding road of yellow sand crept over the slope into
the horizon, a mile or more away; north, a hill rose with some abruptness; south and west,
a grove of wonderful beauty skirted the valley. A single building--an old but large log farmhouse--stood
near the tent, whose fluttering banner indicated headquarters. This old house was well filled
with commissary stores, and, following that incomprehensible Tennessee policy, four companies
of our regiment, the twenty-third, had been detached to guard them under Major Fanning--'a
noble soldier he, but all untried.' We had never yet seen active service, and our tents were
still white and unstained. The ground had been once the lawn of the deserted house--in the
long ago probably the home of a planter of some pretension; and, as we lay there under the
trees watching the boys over the fires, kindled for their evening meal, the blue smoke curling
up among the trees, it made, as I have said, a most harmonious picture.

That fair June evening! I can never forget it, and I wish I were an artist that I could show
you the sloping valley, the white tents, flushing like a girl's cheek to the good-night kisses
of the sun, the curling smoke wreaths, and far, far above the amethystine heaven, from which
floated over all a dim purple tint. I was the youngest commissioned officer in the regiment,
having been promoted to a vacancy a week or two before through Major Fanning's influence.

We were all invited that evening to supper with our commanding officer and his wife--who had
been with him for a few days. A fresh breeze stirred the trees at sunset, and, after slight
attention to our toilette, we dropped by twos and threes into the neighborhood of the major's
tent. A little back from the rows of other tents, a few fine oaks made a temple in front, worthy
even of its presiding genius, Grace Fanning--but I am not going to rhapsodize. She was a fair,
modest, young thing, with the girl rose yet fresh on her wife's cheek. I had known her from
childhood; very nearly of the same age, and the children of neighbors, we had been inseparable;
of course in my first college vacation, finding her grown tall and womanly, I had entertained
for her a devoted boyish passion, and had gone from her presence, one August night, mad with
rejection, and wild with what I called despair. But that passed, and we had been good friends
ever since--she the confidential one, to whom I related my varied college love affairs, listening
ever with a tender, genial sympathy. I had no sister, and Grace Jones (I am sorry, but her
name was Jones) was dear to me as one. Two years of professional study had kept me away from
my village home, and a few words came once in a long while, in my mother's letters 'to assure
me of Grace's remembrance and regard.' A little of the elder sister's advising tone amused
my one and twenty years and my incipient moustache amazingly; and I resolved, when I saw her,
to convince her of my dignity--to patronize her. But the notes that called me home were too
clarion-like for a relapse into puppyism. My country spoke my name, and I arose a man, and
'put away childish things.' I came home to say farewell. A regiment was forming there, I enlisted,
and a few days before our departure, I stood in the village church, looking and listening while
Grace promised eternal fidelity to Harry Fanning. I was a stranger to him. He had come to Danville
after my departure, winning from all golden opinions, and from Grace a woman's priceless heart.
She gave him freely to his country, and denied not her hand to his parting prayer. I had had
time only to say farewell to her, and the old footing had not been restored, but I think she
spoke to the major of me, for he soon sought me, giving me genial friendship and sympathy,
and procuring for me, as I have related, my commission. I had seen her but once since she came
to Camp Alabama, and she gave me warm and kindly welcome as I came in, the last of the group,
having found in my tent some unexpected employment. Being a soldier, I shall not shock my fair
readers if I confess that it was--buttons. Ah! me, I am frivolous. But I linger in the spirit
of that happy hour. Grace's chair was shaded by a gracefully draped flag; the major stood near
her, his love for her as visible in his eye as his cordial kindness for us. To me, in honor
of my 'juniority,' as Mrs. Fanning said, was assigned a place near her. The others had choice
between campstools and blankets on the grass. And the oddest but most respectable of contrabands
served us soon with our supper, so homelike that we suspected 'Mrs. Major's' fair hands of
interference.

It was a happy evening. Merry laughter at our camp stories rang silverly from her fair lips.
Or we listened eagerly to her as she told us of the homes we had left, and the bonny maidens
there, sobered since our departure into patriotic industry. Stories of touching self-denial,
with a wholesome pathos, and sometimes from her dainty musical talk she dropped, pebble-like,
a name, as 'Fanny,' 'Carry,' 'Maggie,' and responsive blushes rippled up over sunburned, honest
faces, and a soft mist brightened for a second resolute eyes. Presently the band--a part only
of the regiment's--began to play soft, well-known tunes. Through a few marches and national
airs, I looked and listened as a year before, in the village church at home. And as the 'Star-Spangled
Banner' rose inspiringly, I felt the coincidence strangely, and could scarcely say which scene
was real: the church aisle and the bridal party, in white robes and favors, with mellow organ-tones
rising in patriotic strains concerning the 'dear old flag,' or the group under the oaks; the
young wife in her gray travelling dress, and the uniformed figures gathered around her; the
moon-rise over the hill, lighting softly the drooping flag, the major's dark hair, and Mrs.
Fanning's sunny braids, the wild notes of the same beloved melody overswelling all. But voices
near aroused me, and we joined in the chorus, and in the following tune, 'Sweet Home,' the
usual finale of our evening programme. Then, as the tones died, Grace lifted her voice and
sang with sweet, pure soprano tones, an old-time ballad of love and parting and reunion.

We had a wild little battle song in 'Our Mess,' written by Charlie Marsh, our fair-haired boy-poet
soldier, speaking of home, and the country's need, and victory, and possible deaths in ringing
notes. We sang it there in the light of the slowly rising moon. The chorus was like this:

  'Our country's foe before us,
  Our country's banner o'er us,
  Our country to deplore us,
    These are a soldier's needs.'

As we closed, Grace caught the strain, and with soft, birdlike notes sang:

  'Your country's flag above you,
  Your country's true hearts love you--
  So let your country move you
    To brave, undying deeds.'

More songs followed, and happy words of cheer in distress, of self-consecration, of past and
future victory; but Major Fanning was unusually silent. Hardly sad, for he flung into our conversation
occasional cheerful words; but gravely quiet, his dark eye following every motion of his fair
young wife. Finally we called on Captain Carter, our 'oldest man,' a grave bachelor of forty-five,
and to our surprise, who knew him harsh and sometimes profane, he sang, with a voice not faultless,
but soft and expressive, that exquisite health of Campbell's:

  'Drink ye to her that each loves best,
    And if you nurse a flame
  That's told but to her mutual breast,
    We will not ask her name.

  'And far, far hence be jest or boast,
    From hallowed thoughts so dear;
  But drink to her that each loves most,
    As she would love to hear.'

Then silence for a little space; and the moonlight full and fair in soldiers' faces, young
and old, but all firm and true, and fair and full on Grace Fanning's fresh, young brow. Then
'good-nights,' mingled with expressions of enjoyment, and plans for the morrow. I left them last.

'I am glad you are here, Robert,' said the major; 'Grace would not be all alone, even if I'--

Her white hand flashed to his lips, where a kiss met it, and laughingly we parted. A few rods
away, I paused and turned. They stood there under the flag. Her bright head on his bosom, his
arms about her, and the silver moonlight over all. Fair Grace Fanning! Have I named my story
wrongly, pretty reader? I called it 'Camp Sketch,' and it reads too like a love story. 'Ah!
gentle girl, seeking adventure in fiction, but shrinking really from even a cut finger, there
is enough of battle even in my little story, though you slept peacefully and happily that fair
June night, or waltzed yourself weary to the sound of the sea at the 'Ocean House.'

A few 'good nights' commendatory of our hostess and our evening greeted me as I sought my tent
and made ready for sleep. I was very happy, no memory of our talk was sullied by coarse or
unlovely thought; pure as herself had been our enjoyment of Mrs. Fanning's society, and I slept
sweetly.

The long roll! None but those who have heard it when it means instant danger and possible death,
can conceive the thrill with which I sprang from deep slumber, and made hasty preparation for
action. Quick as I was, others had been before me, and I found the half-dressed men drawn up
in battle line before the encampment. I took my place.

Behind us lay the camp, a wide, street-like space, fringed with a double row of tents--at its
foot the old log mansion; near that, a little in front, but at one side, the flag of headquarters--this
behind. Before us the major--the western wood, and the flashing sabres of a band of hostile
cavalry. They came on heedless of the fast-emptying saddles, on, on, and more following from
the wood, the moon in the mid heaven, clear like day.

A gallant charge--a firm repulse. Major Fanning's clear voice on the night air, rallying the
men to attack the furious foe. They sweep their horses around to left, but calmly the major
wheels his battalion, still unflanked; again those fierce steeds try the first point of attack;
again we front them undaunted. In our turn, with lifted level bayonets we charge; the enemy
falls back--a shout threads along our lines, changing suddenly into a wail, for, calling us
on, our leader falls. Pitiless to his noble valor, a well-aimed carbine-shot lays him low.
They lift him, some brave soldiers near; and, his young face bathed in blood, they bear him
to his waiting bride; he opens his eyes, as he passes.

'Courage! victory! my boys!' he calls; then, seeing me: 'Go! tell her, Robert.'

I call my orderly to my place, and before they have pierced our lines with their beloved burden,
I am at the tent door. She stands there waiting, a little pistol in her hand--a light wrapper
about her, and her fair hair streaming over her shoulders. I look at her mutely; she knows
there is something terrible for her, and while I seek words, her eye goes on, resting where
down the moonlit trees they are bringing him. A moment, she is by his side, and tearless and
white, her hand on his unanswering heart, she moves beside him. The soldiers lay their leader
on the ground under his flag, and her imperious gesture sends them back to their places in
the battle. And then she, sinking beside him, cries out:

'Oh, Robert! will he never speak to me again? Help him!'

My two years at lectures had not been passed in vain, and surgery had been my hobby. I knelt
and strove to aid him. It was a cruel wound. I asked for bandages. She tore them from her garments
wildly. I stilled the trickling crimson stream, and going into the tent, found some restoratives.
I poured the wine down his throat, and, soon opening his eyes, he spoke:

'Grace!'

I stepped away--near enough for call, not near enough for intrusion. Looking at the lines of
dark forms topped by the light glimmer of stray bayonets, I saw with dismay that our men were
retreating before those heavy charges; in thick, dense masses they moved back, nearing us.
I thought of our soldier chief, crushed under those wild hoofs; I thought of Grace, unprotected
in her youth and widowed, desolate beauty, and sprang to her side, ready with my life for her.

The major saw it all, and, faint as he was, rose on his elbow, watching. Charge after charge,
wild and impetuous, break the slowly retreating battalions. In vain I heard Carter's stern
oaths (may the angel of tears forgive him!), and Charlie Marsh's boyish calls. The men are
facing us. The enemy, cheering, and in the background huge torches flaming with pitch, are
ready for incendiarism.

'Grace! Grace! I must rally them, let me go!' and I see Major Fanning straggling in her arms.
I clasp him also.

'It is certain death,' I say to her, mad with fright and misery.

'And this is worse, worse, Grace; you might better kill me!' his voice was harsh--cruel even.

Suddenly she was gone, and I held him alone; catching his sword, she sprang like a flash of
lightning into the open space before the log house, and, lifting the bare blade with naked,
slender arm, its loose sleeve floating from her shoulder like a wing, she faced those panic-stricken
men.

'For shame!' she cried; but her weak voice was lost; then, stern as the angel of death, she
stepped forward.

'The first man that passes me shall die!' and she swung the flashing blade up, ready to fall.
A moment's halt, and then, she spoke to them with wonderful strange words. I cannot recall
them; with inspired eloquence she spoke, a slight, white-robed figure in the clear moonlight,
and the rout was stayed, and they turned bravely to meet the foe. Then she came faint and weak
to her husband's side again. He looked up with glad, eager eyes.

'Darling!'

Infinite love, soul-recognition, shone on both faces, and then blank unconsciousness crept
over his. Firmly our boys met the charging steeds now. That moment had restored to them their
courage. Emptied saddles were frequent, but still fresh forces dashed from the wood. Is there
no hope for us? Must we be overpowered? Is all this valor vain? Grace from her husband's side
looks mutely up to heaven. I find my place among the men. Little hope remains. Some one calls
'retreat.' 'Just once more,' cries Charlie, and falls before us. But listen; above the battle
din comes a new, an approaching sound from the eastward.

Along the yellow road pours swiftly a force of cavalry, behind the rumble of cannon almost
flying over the ground, and high in air, reeling from the swift motion of its bearer's steed,
the banner of the free. We are saved! A wild shout rings along our lines. Among the enemy,
frightened consultation followed by flight; another second, and our friends are with us and
beyond us in hot pursuit.

Brief question and answer told us of the friendly warning in the distant camp, the hasty march
to aid us. The rest we saw. Then, 'A surgeon for Major Fanning.' The man of the green sash
had not grown callous. There were tears in his eyes as he rose from his vain endeavors, saying
only:

'I can do nothing here; I am needed elsewhere.'

Our young hero was dead!

They composed his limbs, laying him on a blanket under the trees, and Grace sat down beside
him, tearless still, but pale as her dress, or the white hand lying cold over the soldier's
pulseless heart.

'Robert, send them away,' she said to me, as sympathizing strangers pressed round; and they
left us alone with the dead. I spoke at last the commonplaces of consolation, suggested and
modified by the hour and my soldier feelings.

'Yes, Robert,' she answered, 'I gave him long ago. GOD will comfort me for my hero--in time.
Do not speak to me just yet. Do not let any one come.'

The tears came now, and she wept bitterly, silently, under the starry banner, beside the dead.
I heard the hum of many voices, and now and then a cry of pain, and knew they were all helping
the sufferers. Then I turned to her again. Her streaming hair swept the ground, golden in the
light. Her fair face was hidden on the cold dead face. And I dared not speak to her. Oh, that
picture! Poor Grace Fanning! and the silver, silver moonlight over all.

POETRY AND POETICAL SELECTIONS.

  'Oh, deem not in this world of strife,
    An idle art the Poet brings;
      Let high Philosophy control,
  And sages calm the stream of life;
    'Tis he refines its fountain springs,
      The nobler passions of the soul.'

In the annals of literature, Poetry antedates Prose. Creation precedes Providence, not merely
in the order of sequence, but what is usually called intellectual and physical grandeur. So
in genius and taste, Poetry transcends prose. In the work of Creation the Almighty broke the
awful stillness of Eternity, by His first creative fiat, and angels were the first-born of
God. They took their thrones in the galleries of the universe, and in silent contemplation
sat. They spoke not; for words, as signs of thought or will or emotion, were not then conceived,
and, consequently, then unborn. They gazed in rapture on one another, and in solemn silence
thought. Their emotions bodied forth the Anthem of Creation.

Human words being created breath, and breath being air in motion, prior to these language was
impossible. And as the deaf are always dumb, language, like faith, comes by hearing. But hearing
itself is a pensioner, waiting upon a speaker; consequently, it must ever be contingent on
a cause alike antecedent and extrinsic of itself. It is, therefore, equally an oracle of reason
and of faith that, however God may have communicated to angels, to man He spoke in articulate
sounds, before man articulated a thought, a feeling, or an emotion of his soul. And as an emotional
soul is but a harp of many strings, a hand there must have been to play upon its chords, before
melody and harmony, twins-born of Heaven, had either a local habitation or a name.

But, it may be asked--Is there not in the regions of Poetry an æolian harp, found in the cave
of Æolus, on which the winds of heaven played many a celestial symphony, without the skill
or touch of human hand? Grant all that the Poetic Muse assumes, and then we ask--Who made the
harp? And whence directed came the musing sylvan Zephyrus and his choir? Came they not from
a land of images and dreams?

But we are inquiring for originals. Images and originals are the poles apart. An original without
an image is possible; but an image without an original is alike impossible and inconceivable.
Hence, alike philosophically and logically, we conclude that neither man nor angel addressed
each other until they themselves had been addressed by their Creator. Then they intercommunicated
thought, sentiment, and emotion with one another as God had communicated to them.

The mystery of language and Poetry is insoluble but on the admission of a revelation or communication
of some sort, unconceived by the human mind, unexecuted by the human hand. If invention and
creation be the grand characteristics of the Poet, Moses, if uninspired, was a greater Poet
than Homer, or Milton, or Shakspeare, on the hypothesis that he invented the drama which he
wrote. The first chapter of Genesis is the greatest and most splendid Poem ever conceived by
human imagination, or written by human hand.

All Poets, ancient and modern, are mere plagiarists, if Moses was uninspired. We prove his
Divine Legation by the intrinsic and transcendent merits of the Poem which he wrote. Imagination
originates nothing absolutely new. It merely imitates and combines. It is regarded as the creative
faculty of man; but its material is already furnished. The portrait of an unreal Adam is as
conceivable as a child without a father, or an effect without a cause.

Thus we are obliged, by an inseparable necessity, to admit the credibility of the Poem which
he wrote. And what does Moses say? Nothing more than that God spoke, and the universe was!
This is the sublime of true Poetry. This is more than the logic of the proposition, God was,
therefore we are! It is more than the philosophy, ex nihilo, nihil fit! or than, that nothing
cannot be the parent of something.

But we must place our foot on a higher round of the ladder, before we can stand on such an
eminence as to see, in all its fair proportions, the column on which the Muses perch themselves.

Job, and not Moses, shall be our guide, and the oracle alike of our reason and our imagination.
But who is Job? There is not much poetry in the name, Job. But Rome and its vulgate vulgarized
this hallowed name, and Britain followed Rome. His name in Chaldee, Syriac, and Arabic, is
Jobab. There is more poetry in this. There is no metre, no poetry in a monotone or monosyllable.
Born among rocks and mountains, the proper theatre of a heaven-inspired Muse--not in Arabia
the Happy, but in Arabia the Rocky--he was a heart-touching, a soul-stirring, emotional Bard.
In such a case the clouds that overshadow the era of the man only enhance the genius and inspiration
of the Poet.

In internal and external evidence, according to our calendar of the Muses, he is the first-born
of the Poets that yet survive the wasteful ravages of hoary Time. He sings not, indeed, of
Chaos and Eternal Night. Hence we argue, that Poetry is not only prior to prose, but that language,
its intellectual and emotional embodiment, is heaven-conceived, and heaven-born.

But in a short essay it would be out of place and in bad taste to attempt a discourse upon
the broad field of ancient or modern Poetry. We merely attempt to suggest one idea on this
rich and lofty theme. Our radical conception of the essential and differential attribute of
Poetry, as contradistinguished from prose, however chaste, pure, beautiful, and philosophic,
is not mere art, nor science, but creation.

The universe itself is a grand Heroic Poem. Hence its instrument is that power usually called
Imagination. But human imagination is not first, second, or third in rank on the scale of the
universe. God Himself imagined the universe before He created it. His imagination is infinite.
The Cherubim and Seraphim have wings that elevate them above our zenith. And angels, too, excel
us in this creative faculty, and therefore veil their faces before the Majesty of heaven and
earth. Still, man has an humble portion of it, and can turn it to a good account.

But there is another idea essential to the character of Poetry, as good or evil in its spirit
and adornings. We need scarcely say, for we are anticipated by every reflecting mind, that
this is the spirit of the Poem. Poetry, in the abstract, is not necessarily good or evil. It
may be Christian, Jewish, Pagan, or Infidel in its spirit and tendencies. It may corrupt or
purify the heart. It may save or ruin the reader in fortune or in fame. Hence, as Poetry is
powerful to elevate or degrade, to purify or to corrupt a people, much depends on the spirit
of the Poetry which they may put into the hands of the youth of a country; as well observed
by an eminent moralist: 'Let me write the poems or ballads of a people, and I care but little
who enacts their laws.'

The genius of a Poet is a rare genius. And most happily it is so; for elevated taste and high-toned
morality are not, by any means, the common heritage of man. Anacreon and Burns were genuine
Poets. They uttered, in fine style, many truths; and were not merely fluent in their respective
languages, but affluent. But, perhaps, like some other men of mighty parts and grand proportions,
better for mankind they had never been born. A Cowper and a Byron, in their whole career of
song, will exert a very different influence, not only on earth, but in eternity, on the destiny
of their amateurs. We need not argue this position as though, among a Christian people, it
were a doubtful or debatable position. If the evil spirit, or the melancholy demon, that fitfully
possessed the first king of Israel, was expelled by the skilful hand of his successor, even
when his youthful fingers awoke the melodies of the lyre, how much more puissant the exquisite
Odes of the sweet Psalmist, inspired as they were with sentiments and views alike honorable
to God and man, to elevate the conceptions, purify the heart, ennoble the aspirations, and
adorn the life of man!

As the cask long retains the odor of the wine put into it, so the moral and religious fragrance
of many a fine poetic effusion, securely lodged in the recesses of memory, may yield, and often
does yield, a rich repast of pleasurable associations and emotions which, beside their opportune
recurrence in some trying or tempting hour or season of adversity, do often energize our souls
with a moral heroism to deeds of nobler daring, which result in enterprises full of blessings
to ourselves, and not unfrequently to our associates in the walks of life, and radiate through
them salutary light for generations to come.

Imagination, like every other faculty, is to be cultivated. But here we are interrogated--'What
is Imagination?'

No distinction has given critics more trouble, in the way of definition, than that between
Imagination and Fancy. Fancy, it is held, is given to beguile and quicken the temporal part
of our nature; Imagination to incite and support the eternal.

It would be vain to enumerate the various definitions of this term, or to attempt to give even
an abstract of the diversity of views entertained by philosophers respecting the nature and
extent of its operations. It is regarded by some writers as that power or faculty of the mind
by which it conceives and forms ideas of things communicated to it by the organs of sense.
So defines our encyclopædias. Bacon defined it to be the 'representation of an individual thought.'
But Dugald Stewart more philosophically defines it as the 'power of modifying our conceptions,
by combining the parts of different ones so as to form new wholes of our own creation.' The
Edinburgh Encyclopædia, not satisfied with this, says Webster defines it to be the will working
on the materials of memory, selecting parts of different conceptions, or objects of memory,
to form some new whole.

This has long been our cherished view of Imagination. It creates only as a mechanic creates
a chest of drawers, a sideboard, a clock, or a watch. It originates not a single material of
thought, volition, or action. But, mechanic-like, it works by plumb and rule on all the materials
found in the warehouse of memory; and manufactures, out of the same plank of pine, or bar of
iron, or wedge of gold, or precious stone, some new utensil, ornament, or adornment never found
in Nature. In its present form it is the offspring of the art and contrivance of man. Hence
our invulnerable position against Atheism or Deism. No one could have created the idea of a
God or of a Christ, without a special inspiration, any more than he could create a gold watch
without the metal called gold.

The deaf are necessarily dumb. The blind cannot conceive of color. A Poet cannot work without
language, any more than the nightingale could sing without air. Language and prototypes precede
and necessarily antedate writing and prose. Hence the idea of Poetry is preceded by the idea
of Prose, as speaking by the idea of hearing. There was reason, and an age of reason, without,
and antecedent to, rhyme; and therefore we sometimes find rhyme without reason, as well as
reason without rhyme.

Rhyme, however, facilitates memory and recollection. Memory, indeed, is but a printed tablet,
and recollection the art and mystery of reading it. Poetry, therefore, is both useful and pleasing.
It aids recollection, and soothes and excites and animates the soul of man. It makes deeper,
more pungent, more stimulating, more exciting, and more enduring impressions on the mind than
prose; and, therefore, greatly facilitates both the acquisition and retention of ideas and
impressions. Of it Horace says ('Ars Poetica'):

  'Ut pictura, poesis; erit, quæ, si propius stes,
  Te capiet magis, et quædam, si longius abstes.
  Hæc amat obscurum; volet hæc sub luce videri,
  Judicis argutum quæ non formidat acumen:
  Hæc placuit semel, hæc decies repetita placebit.'

No one ever attained to what is usually called good taste who has not devoted a portion of
his time and study to the whole science and art of Poetry. We do not mean good taste in relation
to any one manifestation of it.

There is a general as well as a special good taste, but they are distinguishable only as genus
and species. There is, it may be alleged, a native as well as an acquired taste. This may also
be conceded. There is in some persons a greater innate susceptibility of deriving pleasure
from the works of Nature and of Art than is discoverable in others. Still we cannot imagine
any one gifted with reason and sensibility to be entirely destitute of it. It is an element
of reason and of sense peculiar to man. As a fabulist once represented a cock in quest of barleycorns,
scraping for his breakfast, saying to himself, on discovering a precious and brilliant gem:
'If a lapidary were in my place he would now have made his fortune; but as for myself, I prefer
one grain of barley to all the precious stones in the world.'

But what man, so feeling and thinking, would not 'blush and hang his head to think himself
a man'? Apart from the value of the gem, every man of reason or of thought has pleasure in
the contemplation of the beautiful diamond, whether on his own person or on that of another.
Taste seems to be as inseparable from reason as Poetry is from imagination. It is not wholly
the gift of Nature, nor wholly the gift of Art. It is an innate element of the human constitution,
designed to beautify and beatify man. To cultivate and improve it is an essential part of education.
The highest civilization known in Christendom is but the result or product of good taste. Even
religion and morality, in their highest excellence, are but, so far as society is concerned,
developments and demonstrations of cultivated taste. There may, indeed, be a fictitious or
chimerical taste without Poetry or Religion; but a genuine good taste, in our judgment, without
these handmaids, is unattainable.

But as no interesting landscape--no mountain, hill, or valley, no river, lake or sea--affords
us all that charms, excites or elevates our imagination viewed from any one point of vision,
so the poetic faculty itself can neither be conceived of nor appreciated, contemplated out
of its own family register.

There is in all the 'Fine Arts' a common paternity, and hence a family lineage and a family
likeness. To appreciate any one of them we must form an acquaintance with the whole sisterhood--Poetry,
Music, Painting, and Sculpture.

And are not all these the genuine offspring of Imagination? Hence they are of one paternity,
though not of one maternity. The eye, the ear, and the hand, has each its own peculiar sympathetic
nerve. For, as all God's works are perfect, when and where He gives an eye to see or an ear
to hear, He gives a hand to execute. This is the law; and as all God's laws are universal as
perfect, there is no exception save from accident, or from something poetically styled a lusus
naturæ--a mere caprice or sport of Nature.

But the philosophy of Poetry is not necessary to its existence any more than the astronomy
of the heavens is to the brilliancy of the sun or to the splendors of a comet. A Poet is a
creator, and his most perfect creature is a portraiture of any work of God or man; of any attribute
of God or man in perfect keeping with Nature or with the original prototype, be it in fact
or in fiction, in repose or in operation.

Imitation is sometimes regarded as the test of poetic excellence. But what is imitation but
the creation of an image! Alexander Pope so well imitates Homer, that, as an English critic
once said, in speaking of his translation of that Prince of Grecian Poets--'a time might come,
should the annals of Greece and England be confounded in some convulsion of Nature, when it
might be a grave question of debate whether Pope translated Homer, or Homer Pope.'

For our own part, we have never been able to decide to our own entire satisfaction, which excels
in the true Heroic style. Not, perhaps, for the elegant diction and sublime imagery of his
PARADISE LOST, but for his grand conceptions of Divinity in all its attributes, and of humanity
in all its conditions, past, present, and future.

We Americans have a peculiar respect for Lyric Poetry. We have not time for the Epic. If anything
with us is good, it is superlatively good for being brief. Short sermons, short prayers, short
hymns, and short metre are peculiarly interesting. We are, too, a miscellaneous people, and
we are peculiarly fond of miscellanies. The age of folios and quartos is forever past with
Young America. Octavos are waning, and more in need of brushing than of burnishing. But still
we must have Poetry--good Poetry; for we Americans prefer to live rather in the style of good
lyric than in that of grave, elongated hexameter. Variety, too, is with us the spice of life.
We are not satisfied with grand prairies, rivers, and cataracts, and even cascades and jet d'eaus!

Collections of miscellaneous Poetry seem alike due to the Poetic Muse and to the American people.
We love variety. It is, as we have remarked, the spice of American life; and our country will
ever cherish it as being most in harmony with itself. It is, moreover, more in unison with
the conditions of human nature and human existence. There is, too, as the wisest of men and
the greatest of kings has said, 'a time for every purpose and for every work.' No volume of
Poetry or of Prose can, therefore, be popular or interesting to such a nation as we are, that
does not adapt itself to the versatile genius of our people, and to the ever-varying conditions
of their lives and fortunes.

There is, therefore, a propriety in getting up good selections, because a greater advantage
is to be derived from well selected specimens of the Poetic Muse than from the labors of any
one of the great masters of the Lyre! Who would not rather visit a rich and extensive museum
of the products and arts of civilized life--some well assorted repository of its scientific
or artistic developments, than to traverse a whole state or kingdom in pursuit of such knowledge
of the wisdom, talents, and contrivances of its population?

Of all kinds of composition, Poetry is that which gives to the lovers of it the greatest and
most enduring pleasure. Poetry appeals to the universal sympathies of mankind. With the contemplative
writers, we can indulge our pensive and thoughtful tastes. With the describers of natural scenery,
we can delight in the beauties and glories of the external universe. With the great dramatists,
we are able to study all the phases of the human mind, and to take their fictitious personages
as models or beacons for ourselves. With the great creative Poets, we can go outside of all
these, and find ourselves in a region of pure Imagination, which may be as true to our higher
instincts--perhaps more so--than the shows which surround us.

If it be as truthfully as it has been happily expressed by the prince of dramatic Poets, that

  'He who has no music in his soul
  Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils,'

it should be a paramount duty with every one who loves his species, and cultivates a generous
philanthropy, to patronize every effort to diffuse widely through society, Poetry of genuine
character, and to cultivate a taste for it as an element of a literary, religious, and moral
education. We commend, as a standard of appreciation of the true character of the gifts of
the Poetic Muse, the following critique from Sheffield, Duke of Buckingham:

  ''Tis not a flash of fancy, which sometimes,
  Dazzling our minds, sets off the slightest rhymes,
  Bright as a blaze, but in a moment done;
  True wit is everlasting, like the sun,
  Which, though sometimes behind a cloud retired,
  Breaks out again, and is by all admired.
  Number and rhyme, and that harmonious sound
  Which not the nicest ear with harshness wound,
  Are necessary, yet but vulgar arts;
  And all in rain these superficial parts
  Contribute to the structure of the whole,
  Without a genius too--for that's the soul;
  A spirit which inspires the work throughout,
  As that of Nature moves the world about;
  A flame that glows amidst conceptions fit;
  E'en something of divine, and more than wit;
  Itself unseen, yet all things by it shown,
  Describing all men, but described by none.'

We neither intend nor desire to institute any invidious comparisons between Old Britain and
Young America. We are one people--one in blood, one literature, one faith, one religion, in
fact or in profession. Our language girdles the whole earth. Our science and our religion more
or less enlighten every land, as our sails whiten every sea, and our commerce, in some degree,
enriches every people. There is a magnanimity, a benevolence, a philanthropy, in English Poetry,
whether the Muse be English, Scotch, Irish, or American, that thrills the social nerve and
warms the kindred hearts of all who think, or speak, or dream in our vernacular. The pen of
the gifted Bard is more puissant than the cannon's thundering roar or the warrior's glittering
sword; and the soft, sweet melodies of English Poetry, gushing from a Christian Muse, are Heaven's
sovereign specifics for a wounded spirit and an aching heart!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 18:

  [Greek: Mênin aeide, thea, Pêlêiadeô, Achilêos,
  Oulomenên, hê myri' Achaiois alge' ethêken,
  Pollas d' iphthimous psychas Aidi proiapsen
  Hêrôôn, autous de helôria teuche kynessin

  K.T.L.]]

PATRIA SPES ULTIMA MUNDI.

FLAG OF OUR UNION.

National Song.

BY HON. ROBERT J. WALKER

Dedicated to the Union Army and Navy.

  The day our nation's life began,
  Dawned on the sovereignty of man,
  His charter then our Fathers signed,
  Proclaiming Freedom for mankind.
  May Heaven still guard her glorious sway,
  Till time with endless years grows gray.

        Flag of our Union! float unfurled,
        Thy stars shall light a ransomed world.

  Americans, your mighty name,
  With glory floods the peaks of fame;
  Ye whom our Washington has led,
  Men who with Warren nobly bled,
  Who never quailed on land or sea,
  Your watchword, Death or Liberty!

  It was the Union made us free,
  Its loss, man's second fall would be.
  States linked in kindred glory save,
  Till the last despot finds a grave;
  And angels hasten here to see
  Man break his chains, the whole earth free!

  Ye struggling brothers o'er the sea,
  Who spurn the chain of tyranny,
  Like brave Columbus westward steer,
  Our stars of hope will guide you here,
  Where States still rising bless our land,
  And freedom strengthens labor's hand.

  Hail! Union Army, true and brave,
  And dauntless Navy on the wave.
  Holy the cause where Freedom leads,
  Sacred the field where patriot bleeds;
  Victory shall crown your spotless fame,
  Nations and ages bless your name.

A FANCY SKETCH.

I am a banker, and I need hardly say I am in comfortable circumstances. Some of my friends,
of whom I have a good many, are pleased to call me rich, and I shall not take it upon myself
to dispute their word. Until I was twenty-five, I travelled, waltzed, and saw the best foreign
society; from twenty-five to thirty I devoted myself to literature and the art of dining; I
am now entered upon the serious business of life, which consists in increasing one's estate.
At forty I shall marry, and as this epoch is nine years distant, I trust none of the fair readers
of this journal will trouble themselves to address me notes which I really cannot answer, and
which it would give me pain to throw in the fire.

Some persons think it beneath a gentleman to write for the magazines or papers. This is a low
and vulgar idea. The great wits of the world have found their best friends in the journals;
there were some who never learned to write,--who ever hears of them now? I write anonymously
of course, and I amuse myself by listening to the remarks that society makes upon my productions.
Society talks about them a great deal, and I divide attention with the last novelist, whether
an unknown young lady of the South, or a drumhead writer of romances. People say, 'That was
a brilliant article of so and so's in the last ----, wasn't it?' You will often hear this remark.
I am that gentleman--I wrote that article--it was brilliant, and, though I say it, I am capable
of producing others fully equal to it.

Many persons imagine that business disqualifies from the exercise of the imagination. This
is a mistake. Alexander was a business man of the highest order; so was Cæsar; so was Bonaparte;
so was Burr; so am I. To be sure, none of these distinguished characters wrote poetry; but
I take it, poetry is a low species of writing, quite inferior to prose, and unworthy one's
attention. Look at the splendid qualities of these great men, particularly in the line in which
the imaginative faculties tend. See how they fascinated the ladies, who it is well known adore
a fine imagination. How well they talked love, the noblest of all subjects--for a man's idle
hours. Then observe the schemes they projected. Conquests, consolidations, empires, dominion,
and to include my own project, a bullion bank with a ten-acre vault. It appears that a lack
of capital was at the bottom of all their plans. Alexander confessed that he was bankrupt for
lack of more worlds, and is reputed to have shed tears over his failure, which might have been
expected from a modern dry-goods jobber, but not from Alexander. Cæsar and Bonaparte failed
for the want of men: they do not seem to have been aware of the existence of Rhode Island.
I think Burr failed for the lack of impudence--he had more than all the rest of the world together,
but he needed much more than that to push his projects ahead of his times. As for myself, when
I have doubled my capital, I shall found my bullion bank in the face of all opposition. The
ten-acre lot at the corner of Broadway and Wall street is already selected and paid for, and
I shall excavate as soon as the present crop is off.

There is no question that the occupation of banking conduces to literary pursuits. When I take
interest out of my fellow beings, I naturally take interest in them, and so fall to writing
about them. I have in my portfolio sketches of all the leading merchants of the age, romantically
wrought, and full of details of their private lives, hopes, fears, and pleasures. These men
that go up town every day have had, and still have, little fanciful excursions that are quite
amusing when an observer of my talent notes them down. I know all about old Boscobello, the
Spanish merchant, of the house of Boscobello, Bolaso & Co. My romance of his life from twenty
to forty fills three volumes, and is as exciting as the diaries of those amusing French people
whom Bossuet preached to with such small effect. Boscobello has sobered since forty, and begs
for loans as an old business man ought to. I think he sees the error of his ways, and is anxious
to repair his fortunes to the old point, but it is easier to spend a million than to make it.
My cashier reports his account overdrawn the other day, and not made good till late next afternoon.
This is a sign of failing circumstances, and must be attended to.

When Boscobello comes in about half past two of an afternoon for the usual loan of a hundred
dollars to enable him to go on, I amuse myself by talking to him while I look over his securities.
He has two or three loans to pay up before three o'clock, in different parts of the town, and
we cannot blame him for being in a hurry, but this is no concern of mine. If he will get into
a tight place, one may surely take one's time at helping him out: and really it does require
some little time to investigate the class of securities he brings, and which are astonishingly
varied. For instance, he brought me to-day as collateral to an accommodation, a deed to a South
Brooklyn block, title clouded; a Mackerelville second mortgage; ten shares of coal-oil stock;
an undivided quarter right in a guano island, and the note of a President of the Unterrified
Insurance Company. 'How much was the cartage, Bos?' said I, for you see my great mind descends
to the smallest particulars, and I was benevolent enough to wish to deduct his expenses from
the bonus I was about to charge him for the loan. 'Never mind the cartage,' said he, 'that's
a very strong list, and will command the money any day in Wall street, but I have a particular
reason for getting it of you.' 'The particular reason being,' said I, 'that you can't get it
anywhere else. Jennings,' I continued to my cashier, 'give Mr. Boscobello ninety-five dollars
Norfolk or Richmond due-bills, and take his check payable in current funds next Saturday for
a hundred.'

Poor old Boscobello! A man at forty ought not to look old, but Bos had often seen the sun rise
before he went to bed, and he had been gay, so all my aunts said. Some stories Bos has told
me himself, o' nights at my house, after having in vain endeavored to induce me to take shares
in the guano island, or 'go into' South Brooklyn water lots. 'I'm too old for that sort of
a thing, Bos,' I say; 'it's quite natural for you to ask me, and I don't blame you for trying
it on, but you must find some younger man. Tell me about that little affair with the mysterious
Cuban lady; when you only weighed a hundred and forty pounds, and never went out without a
thousand dollars in your pocket--in the blooming days of youth, Bos, when you went plucking
purple pansies along the shore.'

Boscobello weighs over two hundred now, and would have a rush of blood to the head if he were
to stoop to pluck pansies. Mysterious Cuban ladies, in fact ladies of any description, would
pass him by as a middle-aged person of a somewhat distressed appearance, and the dreams of
his youth are quite dreamed out. Nevertheless, when he warms with my white Hermitage, the colors
of his old life come richly out into sight, and the romantic adventures of wealth and high
spirits overpower, though in the tame measures of recital, all the adverse influences of the
present hour. But as the evening wanes, the colors fade again; his voice assumes a dreary tone;
and I once more feel that I am with a man who has outlived himself, and who, having never learned
where the late roses blow, is now too old to learn.

The reader will perceive I am sorry for Boscobello. If I am remarkable for anything, it is
for my humanity, consideration, and sympathy.

These qualities of my constitution lead me to enter into the affairs of my clients with feeling
and sincerity, but I fear I am sometimes misunderstood. Not long ago I issued an order to my
junior partners to exercise more compassion for those unfortunate men with whom we decline
business, and not to tumble them down the front steps so roughly. Let six of the porters attend
with trestles, I said, and carry them out carefully, and dump them with discretion in some
quiet corner, where, as soon as they recover their faculties, they may get up and walk away.
I put it to the reader if this was not a very humane idea, and yet there are those who have
stigmatized it as heartless.

I wish I was better acquainted with the way in which common people live. I can see how I have
made mistakes in consequence of not understanding the restricted means and the exigencies of
these people, who are styled respectable merchants. Thus when Boscobello has made some more
than ordinarily piteous application, I have said, 'Boscobello, dismiss about fifty of your
servants;' or, 'Boscobello, sell a railroad and put the money back again into your business;'
or, 'Boscobello, my good friend, limit your table, say, to turtle soup, champagne, and truffles;
live more plainly, and don't take above ten quarts of strawberries a day during the winter,--the
lower servants don't really need them;' or, 'Boscobello, if you are really short, send around
a hundred or so of your fast trotters to my stables, and I'll pay you a long figure for them,
if they are warranted under two minutes.' Boscobello has never made any very definite replies
to such advice, and I have attributed his silence to his nervousness; but I begin to suspect
he has'nt quite understood me on such occasions. Then again, when Twigsmith declared he was
a ruined man, in consequence of my refusal of further advances, and that he should be unable
to provide for his family, I said: 'Why, Twigsmith, retire to one of your country seats, and
live on the interest of some canal or other, or discount bonds and mortgages for the country
banks.' Actually, I heard Twigsmith mutter as he went out, that it wasn't right to insult a
man's poverty. Now I hadn't the remotest idea of injuring Twigsmith's feelings, for he was
a very clever fellow, and we made a good thing out of him in his time, but it seems that my
advice might not have been properly grounded.

It begins to occur to me that there may be such a case as that a man may want something, and
not be able to get it; and again, that at such a time a weak mind may complain, and grow discouraged,
and make itself disagreeable to others.

There is a set of old fellows who call themselves family men, and apply for discounts as if
they had a right to them, by reason of their having families to provide for. I have never yet
been able to see the logical sequence of their conclusions, and so I tell them. What right
does it give anybody to my money that he has a wife, six children, and lives in a large house
with three nursery-maids, a cook, and a boy to clean the knives? 'Limit your expenses,' I say
to these respectable gentlemen, 'do as I do. When Jennings comes to me on Monday morning, and
reports that the receipts of the week will be eighty millions, exclusive of the Labrador coupons,
which, if paid, will be eighty millions more, I say, 'Jennings, discount seventy, and don't
encroach upon the reserves; you may however let Boscobello have ten on call.' This is true
philosophy; adapt your outlay to your income, and you will never be in trouble, or go begging
for loans. If the Bank of England had always managed in this way, they wouldn't have been obliged
to call on our house for assistance during the Irish famine.'

These family men invite me to their wives' parties, constantly, unremittingly. The billets
sometimes reach my desk, although I have given orders to put them all into the waste basket
unopened. I went to one of these parties, only one, I give you my honor as a gentleman, and
after Twigsmith and his horrid wife had almost wrung my hand off, I was presented to a young
female, to whom Nature had been tolerably kind, but who was most shamefully dressed. In fact
her dress couldn't have cost over a thousand dollars--one of my chambermaids going to a Teutonia
ball is better got up. This young person asked me 'how I liked the Germania?' Taking it for
granted that such a badly dressed young woman must be a school teacher, with perhaps classical
tastes, I replied that it was one of the most pleasing compositions of Tacitus, and that I
occasionally read it of a morning. 'Oh, it's not very taciturn,' she replied; 'I mean the band.'
'Very true,' said I, 'he says agmen, which you translate band very happily, though I might
possibly say 'body' in a familiar reading.' 'Oh dear,' she replied, blushing, 'I'm sure I don't
know what kind of men they are, nor anything about their bodies, but they certainly seem very
respectable, and they play elegantly; oh, don't you think so?' 'I am glad you are pleased so
easily,' I answered; 'Tacitus describes their performances as indeed fearful, and calculated
to strike horror into the hearts of their enemies. But,' continued I, endeavoring to make my
retreat, for I began to think I was in company with an inmate of a private lunatic hospital,
'they were devoted to the ladies.' 'Indeed they are,' said she,'and the harpist is so gallant,
and gets so many nice bouquets.' It then flashed across my mind that she meant the Germania
musicians. 'They might do passably well, madame,' said I, 'for a quadrille party at a country
inn, but for a dress ball or a dinner you would need three of them rolled into one.' 'Oh, you
gentlemen are so hard to please,' she replied; and catching sight of the Koh-i-noor on my little
finger, she began to smile so sweetly that I fled at once.

