The Irish mail leaving London at shortly after seven A.M., it was timed in 1868 to make the
distance to Chester, one hundred and sixty-six miles, in four hours and eighteen minutes; from
Chester to Holyhead is eighty-five miles, for running which the space of one hundred and twenty-five
minutes was allowed.  Abergele is a point on the seacoast in North Wales, nearly midway between
these two places.  On the 20th of August, 1868, the Irish mail left Chester as usual.  It was
made up of thirteen carriages in all, which were occupied—as the carriages of that train usually
were—by a large number of persons whose names, at least, were widely known.  Among these, on
this particular occasion, were the Duchess of Abercorn, wife of the then Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland, with five children.  Under the running arrangements of the London and North-Western
line a goods train left Chester half-an-hour before the mail, and was placed upon the siding
at Llanddulas, a station about a mile-and-a-half beyond Abergele, to allow the mail to pass.
From Abergele to Llanddulas the track ascended by a gradient of some sixty feet to the mile.
On the day of the accident it chanced that certain wagons between the engine and the rear end
of the goods train had to be taken out to be left at Llanddulas, and, in doing this, it became
necessary to separate the train and to leave five or six of the last wagons in it standing
on the main line, while those which were to be left were backed on to a siding.  The employé
whose duty it was to have done so, neglected to set the brake on the wagons thus left standing,
and consequently when the engine and the rest of the train returned for them, the moment they
were touched, and before a coupling could be effected, the jar set them in motion down the
incline toward Abergele.  They started so slowly that a brakeman of the train ran after them,
fully expecting to catch and stop them, but as they went down the grade they soon outstripped
him, and it became clear that there was nothing to check them until they should meet the Irish
mail, then almost due.  It also chanced that the wagons thus loosened were oil wagons.

The mail train was coming up the line at a speed of about thirty miles an hour, when its engine-driver
suddenly perceived the loose wagons coming down upon it around the curve, and then but a few
yards off.  Seeing that they were oil wagons, he almost instinctively sprang from his engine,
and was thrown down by the impetus and rolled to the side of the road-bed. Picking himself
up, bruised but not seriously hurt, he saw that the collision had already taken place, that
the tender had ridden directly over the engine, that the colliding wagons were demolished,
and that the front carriages of the train were already on fire.  Running quickly to the rear
of the train, he succeeded in uncoupling six carriages and a van, which were drawn away from
the rest before the flames extended to them by an engine which most fortunately was following
the train.  All the other carriages were utterly destroyed, and every person in them perished.

The Abergele was probably a solitary instance, in the record of railway accidents, in which
but one single survivor sustained any injury.  There was no maiming.  It was death or entire
escape.  The collision was not a particularly severe one, and the engine driver of the mail
train especially stated that at the moment it occurred the loose wagons were still moving so
slowly that he would not have sprung from his engine had he not seen that they were loaded
with oil.  The very instant the collision took place, however, the fluid seemed to ignite and
to flash along the train like lightning, so that it was impossible to approach a carriage when
once it caught fire.  The fact was that the oil in vast quantities was spilled upon the track
and ignited by the fire of the locomotive, and then the impetus of the mail train forced all
of its leading carriages into the dense mass of smoke and flame.  All those who were present
concurred in positively stating that not a cry, nor a moan, nor a sound of any description
was heard from the burning carriages, nor did any one in them apparently make an effort to escape.

Though the collision took place before one o’clock, in spite of the efforts of a large gang
of men who were kept throwing water on the line, the perfect sea of flame which covered the
line for a distance of some forty or fifty yards could not be extinguished until nearly eight
o’clock in the evening, for the petroleum had flowed down into the ballasting of the road,
and the rails were red-hot.  It was, therefore, small occasion for surprise that when the fire
was at last gotten under, the remains of those who lost their lives were in some cases wholly
undistinguishable, and in others almost so.  Among the thirty-three victims of the disaster,
the body of no single one retained any traces of individuality; the faces of all were wholly
destroyed, and in no case were there found feet or legs or anything approaching to a perfect
head.  Ten corpses were finally identified as those of males, and thirteen as those of females,
while the sex of ten others could not be determined.  The body of one passenger, Lord Farnham,
was identified by the crest on his watch, and, indeed, no better evidence of the wealth and
social position of the victims of this accident could have been asked for than the collection
of articles found on its site.  It included diamonds of great size and singular brilliancy;
rubies, opals, emeralds; gold tops of smelling bottles, twenty-four watches—of which but two
or three were not gold—chains, clasps of bags, and very many bundles of keys.  Of these, the
diamonds alone had successfully resisted the intense heat of the flame; the settings were nearly
all destroyed.

RAILWAY DESTROYERS IN THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR.

One obvious means of hampering the military operations of the Germans was the cutting of railroads,
so as to interrupt and overthrow on-coming trains.  This method was resorted to by bands of
volunteers, calling themselves “The Wild Boars of Ardennes,” and “Railway Destroyers.”  Here
again the invaders incurred great odium by announcing that, on the departure of a train in
the disaffected districts, the mayor and principal inhabitants should be made to take their
places on the engine, so that if the peasants chose to upset the conveyance, their surest victims
would be their own compatriots.

                                                 —Annual Register, 1870.

FRIGHTENED AT A RED LIGHT.

A driver, not on duty, had been drinking, and was, in company with his fireman, walking in
the vicinity of the Edgware Road, when he suddenly started violently, and seizing his mate’s
arm, shouted—

“Hold hard, mate—hold hard!”

“What’s the matter?” cried the fireman.

“Matter!” roared the driver, “why, you’re a-running by the red light;” and he pointed to the
crimson glare which streamed through a glass bottle in a chemist’s window.

“Come along; that’s nothing,” said the fireman, trying to drag him on.

“What, run by the red light, and go afore Dannel in the morning?” retorted the driver, and
no persuasion could or did get him to pass the shop.  He was a Great Western man, and the “Dannel”
whom he held in such wholesome awe was the celebrated engineer, now Sir Daniel Gooch, and chairman
of that line.  He was then the locomotive chief, and renowned above all other things for maintaining
discipline among his staff, while they cherished a feeling for him very much akin to what we
hear of the clannish enthusiasm of the ancient Scotch.

THE DECOY TRUNK.

August 27, 1875.  The Metropolitan magistrates have had before them a case which seems likely
to show how some, at least, of the robberies at railway stations are accomplished.  Some ingenious
persons, it appears, have devised a way by which a trunk can be made to steal a trunk, and
a portmanteau to annex a portmanteau.  The thieves lay a trunk artfully contrived on a smaller
trunk; the latter clings to the former, and the owner of the larger carries both away.  The
decoy trunk is said to be fitted with a false bottom, which goes up when it is laid on a smaller
trunk, and with mechanism inside which does for the innocent trunk what Polonius recommended
Laertes to do for his friend, and grapples it to its heart with hooks of steel.  In fact, the
decoy duck—we do not know how better to describe it—is made to perform an office like that
of certain flowers, which suddenly close at the pressure of a fly or other insect within their
cup and imprison him there.

                                                 —Annual Register, 1875.

DRIVING A LAST SPIKE.

There are now two lines crossing the American continent.  The western section of the new route
goes through on the thirty-parallel—far enough south from the Rocky Mountains for the current
of the train’s own motion to be acceptable even in December, and to be a grateful relief in
June. Beginning at San Francisco, the additional line runs south through California to Fort
Yuma on the Colorado river; thence along the southern border of the territories of Arizona
and New Mexico, and across the centre of Kansas, until it joins the lines connecting the Southern
States with New York.  The undertaking is a vast one, and has been one of some difficulty;
but its completion has been the occasion of very little display.  Never was a great project
of any kind brought to a successful result with so much of active work and so little of actual
talk.  A cable message a line in length told the story a month ago to European readers, and
none of the American papers appear to have dealt with the matter as anything out of the ordinary
run of daily events.

Far otherwise was it with the finishing touch twelve years ago to the other Transcontinental
line.  The whole world heard of what was then done.  All the bells in all the great cities
of the United States rang out jubilant peals as the last stroke sent home the last spike on
the last rail of the new highway of travel.  The news was flashed by telegraph everywhere throughout
the Union, and that there might be no delay in its transmission and no hindrance to its simultaneous
reception, a certain pre-arranged signal was given and all the wires were for the time being
kept free of other business.  There were cases in which, to save time in ringing out the glad
news, the message was conveyed on special wires right up to the bell towers; and everywhere
there was a feeling that a great victory had been won.  Preceding the consummation, there had
been some wonderful feats in railroad construction.  From the Missouri river on the one side
and from the Sacramento on the other, the two companies—the Union Pacific and the Central Pacific—advanced
against each other in friendly rivalry.  The popular idea was that the length of the line of
each company would be measured to the point at which it joined rails with the other.  This
was hardly the case; but an arrangement was come to after the completion of the work which
has given this notion the strength of a tradition.  The greater part of the Union Pacific route
was over comparatively even ground, and it was not until the Salt Lake region was being approached
that any serious constructive difficulties presented themselves.  It was otherwise with the
company advancing eastward.  The line had to be carried over the Sierra Nevada, the ascent
beginning almost from the starting point, and rising seven thousand feet in a hundred miles.
On the other side of the mountain range, the descent was in turn formidable.  Over this part
of the road it was impossible to proceed rapidly.  The work was surrounded with difficulties,
and there were competent engineers who had no confidence that it could be carried out.  Progress
could only be made at the outset at the rate of about twenty miles each year; but in this slow
work there was time to profit by experience, so that eventually, when it became a question
simply of many hands, the platelayer went forward with the swing of an army on the march. 
Then it was that the two companies went vigorously into the race of construction.  In one day,
in 1868, the Union men were able to inform the Central men by telegraph that they had laid
as many as six miles since morning.  A few days afterwards the response came from the Central
men that they had just finished as their day’s work a stretch of seven miles.  Spurred to fresh
activity by this display, the Union men next reported to the other side a complete stretch
for a day’s work of seven and a half miles!  The answer came back in the extraordinary announcement
that the workers for the Central Company were prepared to lay ten miles in one day!  The Union
people were inclined to regard this as mere boasting, and the Vice-President of the company
implied as much when he made an offer to bet ten thousand dollars that in one day such a stretch
of railroad could not be well and truly laid.  It is not on record that the bet was taken up.
But the fact remains that it was made, that the Central army of workers heard of it, and that
they determined to make good the pledge given in their name.  So a day was fixed for the attempt.
From the Union side men came to take note of the work and to measure it, and their verdict
at the close of the day’s toil was that not only had the promised ten miles been constructed,
but that the measurement showed two hundred feet over!  And this, on the words of an authority,
is how it was done:—When the car loaded with rails came to the end of the track, the two outer
rails on either side were seized with iron nippers, hauled forward off the car, and laid on
the ties by four men who attended exclusively to this work.  Over these rails the cars were
pushed forward and the process repeated.  Then came a gang of men who half-drove the spikes
and screwed on the fish-plates on the dropped rails.  At a short interval behind these came
a gang of Chinamen, who drove home the spikes already inserted and added the rest.  A second
squad of Chinamen followed, two deep, on each side of the single track, the inner men carrying
shovels and the outer men wielding picks, their duty being to ballast the track.  Every movement
was thus carefully arranged, and there was no loss of time.  The average rate of speed at which
the work was done was 1 min. 47½ secs. to every 240 feet of perfected track.  There was, of
course, an army of disciplined helpers, whose duty it was to bring up the materials.  In this
great feat of construction more than four thousand men found employment in various capacities.
When they had carried their line four miles further east, the Central and the Union men met
each other, the point of connection being known as Promontory.  Afterwards the two companies
made an arrangement whereby the Union Pacific relinquished fifty-three miles of road to the
Central, thus fixing on Ogden as the western terminus of the one line and the eastern terminus
of the other.  The popular belief is that the fifty-three miles were obtained by the Central
Pacific directors as an acknowledgement of the greater engineering difficulties they had to
overcome in laying their part of the track, and that they served a handicapping purpose at
the end of this wonderful railroad competition.

The placing of the final tie on the Pacific lines, as has been hinted, was a ceremonious undertaking.
The event took place on Monday, March 10th, 1869.  Representatives were present from almost
every part of the Union, and the construction parties, not yet wholly dispersed, made up a
greater crowd than had been seen at Promontory before or is likely ever to be seen there again—for,
with the fixing of the termini at another point, the glory of the place has departed.  The
connecting tie had been made of California laurel.  It was beautifully polished, and bore a
series of inscribed silver plates.  The tie was carefully placed, and over it the rails were
laid by picked men on behalf of each company.  The spikes were then inserted—one of gold, silver,
and iron, from Arizona; another of silver, from Nevada; and a third of gold, from California.
President Stanford, of the Central Pacific, armed with a hammer of solid silver, drove the
last spike, the blow falling precisely at noon, and the news of the completion of the road
being flashed abroad as it fell.  Then the two locomotives, one from the west and the other
from the east, drew up to each other on the single line, coming into gentle collision, that
they in their way, in the pleasing conceit of their drivers, might symbolise the fraternisation
that went on.  It does not spoil the story of the ceremony to state that the laurel tie, with
its inscriptions and its magnificent mountings, was only formally laid, and that it became
from that day a relic to be officially cherished; and it should be added that the more serviceable
tie which replaced it was cut into fragments by men eager to have some memento of the occasion.
Other ties for a time shared the same fate, until splinters of what was claimed to be “the
last tie laid” became as common as pieces of the Wellington boots the great commander is said
to have left behind him at Waterloo.

With the junction of the two lines, it became possible to make safely in one week an overland
journey that not many years before required months in its execution, and was attended by many
hardships and dangers.  It was, however, a route better known even in the days when the legend
of the pilgrims over it was “Pike’s Peak or bust!” than is the region crossed by the new southern
line.  This line opens up what is practically an undiscovered and an unsettled country, but
the region traversed has been ascertained to be so rich in resources as to fully justify the
heavy expenditure involved in the construction of the line.  In another year the line will
become a powerful agent in the development of the Union, for it will then be connected with
the lines that run through Texas into Louisiana, and New Orleans and San Francisco will be
brought into direct communication with each other.  This, in fact, has been a prominent object
in the undertaking.  The effect of it will be to cheapen the tariff on goods from the Pacific
Coast to Europe, and will, it is believed, have the effect of controlling a large share of
the Asiatic trade.

                                       —Leeds Mercury, April 23rd, 1881.

MARRIAGE AND RAILWAY DIVIDENDS.

Marriage would not seem to have any close connection with railroad traffic, but we find an
officer of an East Indian railroad company explaining a falling off in the passenger receipts
of the year (1874) by the fact that it was a “twelfth year,” which is regarded by the Hindoos
as so unfavourable to marriage that no one, or scarcely any one, is married.  And, as weddings
are the great occasions in Hindoo life when there is great pomp and a general gathering together
of friends, they cause a great deal of travelling.

SECURITY FOR TRAVELLING.

A civil engineer, of long experience in connection with railways, gives some reassuring statements
as to the precautions taken in keeping the lines in order.  The majority of accidents occur,
not from defects in the line, but from imperfections in the living agents who have charge of
the signals and other arrangements of trains in transit.  The engineer says:—“To begin at the
bottom, we have the ganger of the ‘beat,’ a man selected from the waymen after several years’
service for his aptitude and steadiness, whose duty it is to patrol his length of two or three
miles every morning, and to make good fastenings, etc., afterwards superintending his gang
in packing, replacing rails, sleepers, and other necessary repairs.  Over the ganger is the
inspector of permanent way, responsible for the gangers doing their duty, who generally goes
over all his district once a day on the engine, and walks one or more gangers’ beats.  The
inspectors, again, are under the district superintendent or engineer, who makes frequent inspections
both by walking and on the engine.  The ganger, if in want of men or materials, reports to
his inspector, who, if they are required, sends a requisition to the engineer, keeping a small
stock at his head-quarters to supply urgent demands.  The engineer in his turn keeps the whole
in harmony, sanctioning the employment of the necessary men, and ordering the materials, the
only check upon the number of men or quantity of materials being the total half-yearly expenditure.
Directors never within my experience grudge an outlay necessary to keep the line in good order;
but, should they limit the expenditure from financial motives, it would then clearly be the
duty of the engineer to recommend a reduction of speed to a safe point.  Occasionally, idle
gangers are met with, who are always asking for more men, and as naturally meeting with refusal.

THE NUMBER ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY.

Lord Lymington, M.P., relates the following amusing tale of his experience with an inquiring
and hospitable gentleman in Arkansas:—“He introduced himself to me very kindly on learning
that I was a traveller and an Englishman, and offered me the hospitalities of the town.  It
was very obliging of him, but unfortunately I could not stay, so we had a chat while I was
waiting for the train.  During this chat his eye fell on a portmanteau of mine which I had
caused to be marked, for convenience sake and easy identification, with the cabalistic figures
120.  This he scanned for some time with ill-concealed curiosity, and finally, turning to me,
said rather abruptly, ‘If I am not mistaken, you are a nobleman, are you not?’  I admitted
that such was my unhappy lot.  ‘Then,’ he said, ‘I presume that number there on your valise
is what they call in the nobility armorial bearings, is it not—in fact, your crest?’  ‘Hardly
that,’ I modestly replied.  ‘A number is only borne as a crest, I believe, by much more illustrious
persons—for example, the Beast in the Apocalypse.’  ‘Oh!’ he replied, and then, after meditating
a moment or two, asked, ‘Have your family been long in England?’  ‘Yes,’ I said, ‘they have
been there for some time.  But why do you ask?’  ‘Perhaps the number refers,’ he replied, ‘to
the number of generations, just as they recite them in the Old Testament, you know?’  ‘Yes,’
I unhesitatingly and with prompt mendacity replied, ‘that is exactly it, and I don’t see how
you hit it so cleverly.’  He smiled all over with delight as the train rushed up, and waved
kind farewells to me as long as we were in sight.”

ENGINE DRIVING.

But the regulator once in his hand, the engine-driver has only begun his experience.  He goes
through an apprenticeship with different varieties of engines.  He must pick up what knowledge
he can himself, and he must always be on the alert to benefit from the experience of others.
The locomotive in its varying “moods” must be his constant study, and he must work it so that
he shall not infringe more than an average share of a multiplicity of rules and regulations.
The best position in the service, apart from that of superintendence, is in the driving of
an express engine, and the greatest honour that can be conferred on an engine-driver is to
select him to take charge of the locomotive on a Royal train.  Only the best men are picked
out to drive the Queen, and the best engine on the road is detailed for the Royal service;
and although on those occasions railway officials, who are the superiors of the driver, get
on the foot-boards, the latter is for the time being master of the situation.  Should the locomotive
superintendent dictate to him, it would be to confess that the driver was unworthy of his high
trust, and so the superintendent is content to look on; but it is the contentment born of the
conviction that he has chosen for the task a driver whose experience is great, and whose watchfulness
and care and knowledge of enginery have given him a claim to the chief service his company
has for him.  Not that there is any more risk in running the Queen’s train than in running
an ordinary passenger express.  In fact, the risk is reduced to a minimum. A pilot engine has
gone before to keep the way clear.  The pilot engine is fifteen minutes in advance of the Royal
carriages at every station, and the space travelled over in that fifteen minutes is kept free
and unobstructed.  The speed of the train is carefully regulated, and amongst other provisions
for security the siding points are for the moment spiked.  Every crossing gate is guarded from
the time of the passage of the advance engine until the train follows in its wake.  Everything
is done to make the Royal journey over a railroad a safe one.  Such arrangements, however,
if they add to the responsibility, heighten also the pride a man feels in being the Queen’s driver.

So far as the companies are concerned, it may be said that there is a fair field and no favour
all the way from the fire-box in the cleaning-shed up to the footboard on the locomotive that
takes Her Majesty from Windsor to Ballater.  Promotion comes practically as a result of competitive
examination.  The mistake of a weak appointment is soon rectified, and the precautions taken
to test a man’s capacity in one grade before raising him to another are an absolute barrier
to incompetence.  But there are circumstances under which a man’s chances are weakened.  His
responsibilities make him liable for the faults of others, and mistakes of this kind go to
his discredit.  Then if he is not companionable, or is over-confident, tricks may be played
which will prevent his going forward as rapidly as he otherwise would.  Mr. Reynolds tells
the story of a driver who had come to a dead stop on a journey because he was short of steam.
The cause was a mystery.  There appeared to be nothing wrong with the engine or the fire, and
apparently the boiler was also in trim.  It was eventually found that some one had put soft
soap in the tender, and the water there being hot, the soap was gradually dissolved and introduced
into the boiler, with the result that the grease covered the tubes, and together with the suds
prevented the transmission of heat to the water.  An enemy had done this, but under the rules
the driver was responsible for his engine, and he was suspended; only, however, to be reinstated
when once the mischief was traced to the perpetrator.  Even an act which to the ordinary spectator
is a marvellous example of presence of mind may, interpreted by the company’s rules, be an
offence on the part of the engine-driver.  An engine attached to a train broke from the tender
in the course of its journey, and became separated.  Noticing the mishap, the driver slackened
speed, allowed the tender and carriages to come up, and while the train was still in motion
he and the fireman adroitly secured the runaway, and no harm was done. The men interested did
not think it advisable to report the occurrence. But the clever management of the engine had
been noticed by a peasant in a field, and Hodge, in his wonderment, began to talk about the
affair all round the country-side.  Then the story found its way to a station master, and thence
to headquarters, and an inquiry brought the matter to light, and ended in the two men being
advised not to do the same thing again.  It was held that under the circumstances the train
should have been stopped.

ENGINE DRIVERS’ PRESENCE OF MIND.

An able writer upon railway topics remarks:—“I have alluded to a driver’s coolness and resolution
in an accident, but no chronicle ever has or ever will be written which will tell one tithe
of the accidents which the courage and presence of mind of these men have averted.  A railway
ran over a river—indeed, it might be called an arm of the sea: as it was the inlet to an important
harbour, provision was obliged to be made for the shipping, and so the piece of line which
crossed the water, at a height of seventy feet, was, in fact, a bridge which swung round when
large vessels had to pass.  I need hardly say that such a point was carefully guarded.  At
each end, at a fitting distance, a man was placed specially to indicate whether the bridge
was open or shut.  One day, as the express was tearing along on its up journey, the driver
received the usual ‘all right’ signal; but to his horror, on coming in full sight of the bridge,
he found it was wide open, and a gulf of fatal depth yawning before him. He sounded his brake-whistle,
that deep-toned scream which signals the guard, and he and his fireman held on, as before described,
to the brake and regulator.  The speed of the train was, of course, checked; but so short was
the interval, so great had been the impetus, that it seemed almost impossible to prevent the
whole train from going over into the chasm.  Had the rails been in the least degree slippery,
any of the brakes out of order, or the driver less determined, there would then have occurred
the most fearful railway accident ever known in England; but by dint of quick decision and
cool courage the danger was averted; the train was brought to a standstill when the buffers
of the engine absolutely and literally overhung the chasm.  Three yards more, and a different
result might have had to be chronicled.

“Some of my readers may remember an incident in railway history which dates back to our first
great Exhibition.  I mention it here for its singularity, and for my having known the driver
whose coolness was so marked.  In ascending a very long gradient, the hindmost carriages of
the train snapped their couplings when at the top; the engine rattled on with the remainder,
while these ran down the slope, which was several miles in length, with a velocity which, of
course, increased every moment.  To make matters worse, the next train on the same line was
comparatively close behind, and, in fact, shortly came in sight.  The driver of this second
train, a watchful and experienced hand, saw the carriages rushing towards him, and divined
that they were on the same line.  If he continued steaming on, of course, in a couple of minutes
he would come into direct collision with them, while, on the other hand, if he ran back, the
carriages would probably gather such way that they would leap from the bank.  So, with great
presence of mind and wonderful judgment of speed, he ran back at a pace not quite as fast as
the carriages were approaching, so that eventually they overtook him, and struck his moving
engine with a blow that was scarcely more perceptible than the jar usually communicated by
coupling on a fresh carriage.  When this was done, all the rest was easy; he resumed his down
journey, and pushed the frightened passengers safely before him until they reached their destination,
where the officials, as may readily be supposed, were in a state of frantic despair at the
loss of half the train.”

A SMUGGLING LOCOMOTIVE.

A singular adaptation of the locomotive has just been made in Russia. Information having been
given to the authorities at Alexandrovo, on the Polish frontier, that the locomotive of the
express leaving that station for Warsaw had been ingeniously converted into a receptacle for
smuggled goods, it was carefully examined during its sojourn at the station. Though nothing
was found wrong, it was deemed advisable that a custom-house official should accompany the
train to its destination, when the engine furnace and boiler were emptied and deliberately
taken to pieces.  In the interior was discovered a secret compartment containing one hundred
and twenty-three pounds of foreign cigars and several parcels of valuable silk.  Several arrests
were made, including that of the driver; but his astonishment at finding the engine to which
he had been so long accustomed converted into a hardened offender against the laws was so genuine
that he was released and allowed to return to his duties.

THE CUSTOM OF THE COUNTRY.

An English lady accustomed to travelling abroad, and able to converse fluently in the languages
of the countries she visited, recently found herself alone in a railway carriage in Germany,
when two foreigners entered with pipes in their mouths, smoking strong tobacco furiously. She
quietly told them in their own language that it was not a smoking carriage, but they persisted
in continuing to smoke, remarking that it was “the custom of the country,” upon which the lady
took from her pocket a pair of gloves and commenced cleaning them with benzoline.  Her fellow-passengers
expressed their disgust at the nauseous effluvium, when she remarked that it was the custom
of her country.  She was soon left in the sole possession of the carriage.

                                                                 —Truth.

AN INSULTED WOMAN.

Any one wanting a fair and yet amusing account of what really occurs to a person travelling
in America should read G. A. Sala’s book called America Revisited.  He speaks of a gentleman
from the Eastern States whom he met in the train across the continent, and who thus held forth
upon the difference between reality and guide-books:—

“There ain’t no bottling up of things about me.  This overland journey’s a fraud, and you oughter
know it.  Don’t tell me.  It’s a fraud.  This Ring must be busted up.  Where are your buffalers?
Perhaps you’ll tell me that them cows is buffalers.  They ain’t.  Where are your prairie dogs?
They ain’t dogs to begin with, they’re squirrels.  Ain’t you ashamed to call the mean little
cusses dogs?  But where are they?  There ain’t none.  Where are your grizzlies?  You might
have imported a few grizzlies to keep up the name of your railroad.  Where are your herds of
antelopes scudding before the advancing train?  Nary an antelope have you got for to scud.
Rocky Mountains, sir?  They ain’t rocky at all—they’re as flat as my hand.  Where are your
savage gorges?  I can’t see none. Where are your wild injuns?  Do you call them loafing tramps
in dirty blankets, injuns?  My belief is that they are greasers looking out for an engagement
as song and dance men.  They’re ‘beats,’ sir, ‘dead beats,’ they’re ‘pudcocks,’ and you oughter
be told so.”

Another passenger in the train with Mr. Sala was of a poetic mind, and he softly sang to himself
during the whole journey over the Rocky Mountains the following effusion:—

          Beautiful snow,
          Beautiful snow,
          B-e-e-e-eautiful snow,
    How I’d like to have a revolver and go
    For the beast that wrote about beautiful snow.

COPY OF A NOTICE.

The following is a verbatim copy of a notice exhibited at Welsh railway station.  It is, perhaps,
only a little more incomprehensible than Bradshaw.  “List of Booking: You passengers must careful.
For have them level money for ticket and to apply at once for asking tickets when will booking
window open.  No tickets to have after the departure of the trains.”

SNOWED UP ON THE PACIFIC RAILWAY.

A writer in the Leisure Hour remarks:—“It is no joke when a town like New York or London is
blocked up for a few hours by snow.  Both labour and capital have then to submit to a strike
from nature; but it is a more serious matter when a man is snowed up in the middle of the Pacific
Railway.  He is not then kept at home, but kept away from it; he is not in the midst of comforts,
but most unpleasantly out of their reach.  He may, too, have to endure his privations and annoyances
for a week, or even a month. . .  Avalanches, in spite of snow-sheds and galleries, spring
into ravines which the trains have to cross. . . .  It was, however, with some little alarm
that the writer found himself caverned for a considerable time under one of these dark snow-sheds.
The difficulty of running through the snow impediments had so exhausted the fuel that it was
necessary to go to a wood-station in the mountains.  As it was the favourite resort of avalanches,
the prudent conductor of our train directed the pilot to back the carriages into a snow-shed,
and then be off the more quickly with engine and tender for a supply of fuel.  It was bitterly
cold and in the dead of night.  The snow was piled up around the gallery, and had in many places
penetrated through the crevices.  The silence was profound.  The sense of utter loneliness
and desolation was complete.  The return of the engine after a lengthened absence was a relief,
like the spring sun following an arctic winter.

“The first parties snowed up were wholly unprepared.  They had had their dollar meal at the
last station, and were far enough from the next when fixed in the bank.  It was, however, a
rare harvest for the nearest store.  The necessity of some was the opportunity of others. 
Food of inferior quality brought fabulous prices.  A dispute, involving a heavy wager, arose
about one article of fare.  Was it antelope or not?  The vendor admitted that a very lean old
cow had been sacrificed on the pressing occasion.

“For a little while some fun was got out of the trouble of snowed-up trains.  Delicate attentions
were tendered by gentlemen as cooks’ mates to the ladies.  Oyster-cans were converted into
culinary utensils, and telegraph wire proved excellent material for gridirons.  Many a joke
was passed in the train kitchen, and hearty was the appetite for the rude viands thus rudely
dressed.  But when the food grew more difficult to obtain, and the wood supply became less
and less, the mirth was considerably slackened.  It is true that despatches were sent off for
help, and cargoes of provisions were steamed up as near as the snow would permit; but it was
hard work to carry over the snow, and insufficient was the supply.  Frightful growlings arose
from the men and sad lamentations from the women.  Short allowance of food, with intense cold,
could not be positively enjoyed any time; but to be cooped up within snow walls in such a desolate
region, far from expecting friends or urgent business, was most annoying.  One spoke of absolute
necessity to be at his office within the week, as heavy bills had to be prepared for.  Another
was going about an important speculation, which would utterly break down if he were detained
three days.  Alas! he was there above three weeks.

“The sorrows of the heart were worse.  A mother was there hastening to nurse a sick daughter.
A father had been summoned to the dying bed of his son.  A husband was hoping to clasp again
a wife from whom a long voyage had separated him.  One poor fellow was an especial object of
sympathy.  He was hastening to an anxiously waiting bride.  He had to cool the ardour of his
passion in the snow-bound car, and pass the day appointed for his wedding in shivering reflections.
In one of the snow depths was detained an interesting couple who had casually met on the western
side and were obeying the mandate of the heart and of friends in proceeding to the east to
effect their happy union.  The three weeks they were compelled to pass together, under these
cold and trying circumstances, must have given them a famous insight into each other’s character,
and this before the knot was tied.

“The story is told of one resolute man who, though but newly married, had been compelled to
take a business journey.  He was most impatient to return home, and was awhile confounded with
his unfortunate imprisonment. When he found that little chance existed for an early escape,
his heart prompted him to a bold enterprise.  He was still two hundred miles from home.  He
had no guide before him but the telegraph posts.  He could expect little provision on the way,
as the stations were frozen up; but, sustained by conjugal affection, the good fellow set off
on his lonely walk over the snow.  Notwithstanding terrible sufferings, and some free fighting
with wolves, he did his march in five days only.  What a greeting he deserved!

“Those who had not his courage and strength were compelled to endure the cars.  Americans are
not folks to whine about a trouble; they succeed so often that their faith is strong.  Though
the most luxurious of people, the men—and the women too—can bear reverses nobly.  But they
never dream of Oriental submissiveness.  They struggle hard to rise, and make the best of things
till a change comes.  So with those in the cars.  They soon found amusements; they chatted
and laughed, played games and sang; the best jokes were recollected and repeated, and the liveliest
tales were told; charades were acted; a judge and jury scene afforded much amusement; lectures
were given to approving assemblies.  The Sundays were decently observed, and services were
held morning and evening; reading was dispensed with, and the sermons were extempore perforce.

“The worst part of their sufferings came when for forty-eight hours they were under a snow-shed
without light, and with the stoves empty.  As, for the maintenance of warmth, every crevice
in the cars was stopped, the misery of close and unwholesome atmosphere was added to their
sorrows. The writer, as an old traveller, has had some experience of odd sleeping dens, and
has been obliged at times to inhale a pestiferous air, though he has never endured so much
from this discomfort as in his winter passage on the Pacific Railway.  For hours in the long
nights, as well as in the day, he preferred standing outside on the platform, with the thermometer
from fifteen to twenty-five below zero, rather than encounter the foul atmosphere and stifling
heat within.

“Meanwhile the brave Chinamen were summoned to the rescue.  They are capital fellows to withstand
the cold, and work with a will to clear a passage.  For a distance of two hundred miles the
blockade existed, and several trains were thus caught on the way.  Eight hundred freight wagons
were detained at Cheyenne.  At one period the cold was 30° below zero. The worst part of the
road was toward Sherman, 8,252 feet above the sea. Wyoming and West Nebraska were the coldest
regions.

“In this great blockade, strange to say, the mortality was but small. Three died during the
imprisonment, and two in consequence of cold.  But an interesting compensation was made, for
five births took place in this season of trial.  The principal sufferers were those in the
second-class carriages.  Room, however, was made for the more delicate in the already crowded
first-class cars.”

A SELL.

The Indianapolis News is responsible for the following story.  A railroad official of Indianapolis
had, among other passes, one purporting to carry him freely over the Warren and Tonawanda Narrow-Gauge
Railway. Happening to be near Warren, he thought he would use this pass.  Now, it appears that
some enterprising citizens of Pennsylvania once proposed to lay a pipe-line for petroleum between
Warren and Tonawanda.  The Legislature having refused to sanction their scheme, they “engineered”
a bill for building a narrow-gauge line, which passed, the oil capitalists not conceiving that
they had any interest in opposing it.  It is needless to say the narrow-gauge line was the
“desiderated pipe-line.”  The enterprising citizens carried their joke so far as to issue annual
passes over the road, receiving others in return.  When the traveller sought for the Warren
station on this line he found a chimney, and for the narrow-gauge an iron-lined hole in the
ground.  It is hardly surprising that now he is moved to anger at the slightest reference to
the “Warren and Tonawanda Narrow Gauge.”

AT FAULT.

It is rather a serious matter that our public companies, and especially our railway companies,
are doing their best to degrade our language.  I am not going to be squeamish and object strongly
to the use of the word Metropolitan, though I think it indefensible.  Still, it is too bad
of them to persist in using the word bye-laws for by-laws—so establishing solidly a shocking
error.  The word bye has no existence in England except as short for be with you, in the phrase
Good-bye. The so called by-laws are simple laws by the other laws, and have nothing to do with
any form of salutation.  In a bill of the Great Western Railway I find the announcement that
tickets obtained in London on any day from December 20th to 24th will be available for use
on either of those days—this either meaning the five days from the 20th December to the 24th
inclusive.  Either of five!  After this I am not surprised that, in a contribution of my own
to a daily paper, the editor gravely altered the phrase the last-named, applied to one of three
people, to latter. In a railway advertisement I read a day or two ago, “From whence.”  Now,
what is the good of such fine words as whence and thence if they are thus to be ill-used? 
Surely the railway companies might have some one capable of seeing that their grammar has some
pretence to correctness.

                                                  —Gentleman’s Magazine.

A WIDOW’S CLAIM FOR COMPENSATION.

Some time ago a railway collision on one of the roads leading out of New York killed, among
others, a passenger living in an interior town.  His remains were sent home, and a few days
after the funeral the attorney of the road called upon the widow to effect a settlement.  She
placed her figures at twenty thousand dollars.  “Oh! that sum is unreasonable,” replied the
attorney.  “Your husband was nearly fifty years old.”  “Yes, sir.”  “And lame?”  “Yes.”  “And
his general health was poor?”  “Quite poor.”  “And he probably would not have lived over five
years?” “Probably not, sir.”  “Then it seems to me that two or three thousand dollars would
be a fair compensation.”  “Two or three thousand!” she echoed.  “Why, sir, I courted that man
for ten years, run after him for ten more, and then had to chase him down with a shotgun to
get him before a preacher!  Do you suppose that I’m going to settle for the bare cost of shoe
leather and ammunition?”

THE LADY AND HER LAP-DOG.

The following scene occurred at the high-level Crystal Palace line:—“A newspaper correspondent
was amused at the indignation of a lady against the porters who interfered to prevent her taking
her dog into the carriage.  The lady argued that Parliament had compelled the companies to
find separate carriages for smokers, and they ought to be further compelled to have a separate
carriage for ladies with lap-dogs, and it was perfectly scandalous that they should be separated,
and a valuable dog, worth perhaps thirty or forty guineas, should be put into a dog compartment.
I have some of the B stock of the railway, upon which not a penny has ever been paid, and I
could not help comparing my experience of this particular line of railway with that of my fellow-traveller,
and wondering what sort of a train that would be which would provide accommodation for all
the wants and wishes of railway travellers.”

WHAT IS PASSENGERS’ LUGGAGE?

A gentleman removing took with him on the Great Western railway articles consisting of six
pairs of blankets, six pairs of sheets, and six counterpanes, valued at £16, belonging to his
household furniture.  They were in a box, which was put in the luggage van and lost.  The question
at law was whether these articles came within the definition, “ordinary passengers’ luggage,”
for which, if lost, the passenger could claim damages from the Company.

The judges of the Court of Queen’s Bench sitting in Banco have decided that such is not personal
luggage.

“Now,” (said the Lord Chief Justice) “although we are far from saying that a pair of sheets
or the like taken by a passenger for his use on a journey might not fairly be considered as
personal luggage, it appears to us that a quantity of articles of that description intended,
not for the use of the traveller on the journey, but for the use of his household, when permanently
settled, cannot be held to be so.”

                             —Herepath’s Railway Journal, Jan. 10, 1871.

CONVERSION OF THE GAUGE.

The conversion of the gauge on the South Wales section of the Great Western railway in 1872
was of the heaviest description, the period of labour lasting from seventeen to eighteen hours
a day for several successive days.  It was the greatest work of its kind, and nothing exactly
like it will ever be done in England again.  The lines of rail to be connected would have made
about 400 miles in single length, the number of men employed was about 1500; and the time taken
was two weeks nearly. Oatmeal and barley water was made into a thin gruel and given to the
men as required.  It was the only drink taken during the day.  I had not a single case of drunkenness
or illness.  I have often heard these men speak with great approbation of the supporting power
of oatmeal drink.

                                                —J. W. Armstrong, C.E.

FOURTH-OF-JULY FACTS.

At a banquet in Paris attended by Americans in celebration of the late Fourth of July, Mr.
Walker’s speech in reply to the toast of the material prosperity of the United States and France,
and the establishment of closer commercial relations between them, was especially striking
and interesting.  He remarked, “In 1870 the cost of transporting food and merchandise between
the Western and Eastern States was from a cent-and-a-half to two cents a ton a mile.  I well
remember a conversation which I had in 1870 or 1871 with Mr. William B. Ogden, of Chicago,
one of the modest railway kings of that primitive period.  In a vein of sanguine prophecy,
Mr. Ogden exclaimed to me, ‘Mr. Walker, you will live to see freight brought from Chicago to
New York at a cent a ton a mile!’  ‘Perhaps so,’ I replied; ‘but I fear this result will not
be reached in my time.’  In 1877 or 1878 the cost had fallen to three-eighths of a cent a ton
a mile, and although this price was not remunerative, I was told by one of the highest authorities
in railway matters that five-eighths of a cent would be perfectly satisfactory.  The effect
of this reduction in the cost of transportation is precisely as though the unexhaustible grain
fields and pastures across the Mississippi had been moved bodily eastward to the longitude
of Ohio and Western New York.  It is estimated that it takes a quarter of a ton of bread and
meat to feed a grown man in Massachusetts for a year.  The bread and meat come to him from
the far west, and I have no doubt that it will astonish you to be told, as it lately astonished
me, that a single day of this man’s labour, even if it be of the commonest sort, will pay for
transporting his year’s subsistence for a thousand miles.”

TAY BRIDGE ACCIDENT.

Dec. 28, 1879.  A fearful disaster occurred in Scotland.  As the train from Edinburgh to Dundee
was crossing the bridge, two miles in length, which spans the mouth of the Tay, a terrible
hurricane struck the bridge, about four hundred yards of which was, with the train, dashed
into the sea below.  About seventy persons were in the train, of whom not one escaped, nor,
when the divers were able to descend, could a single body be found in the carriages, or among
the bridge girders, and some days elapsed before any were recovered.  No conclusive evidence
could be produced to show whether the train was blown off the rails and so dragged the girders
down, or whether the bridge was blown away and the train ran into the chasm thus made.  The
night was intensely dark, and the wind more violent than had ever been known in the country.

                                                  Annual Register, 1879.

AN EXTRAORDINARY WAIF.

The following is a translation from the Norwegian newspaper Morgenbledet, dated Feb. 20th:—“By
private letter from Utsue, an island on the western coast of Norway, is communicated to Dapposten
the intelligence that on the 12th inst. some fishermen pulled on the Firth to haul their nets,
and had hardly finished their labour when they sighted an extraordinary object some distance
further out.  The superstitious fears of sea monsters which have been written a good deal about
lately held them back for some time, but their curiosity made them approach the supposed sea
monster, and, to their great surprise, they found that it was something like a building.  As
the sea was calm they immediately commenced to tow it to shore, where it was hauled up on the
beach, and was then found to be a damaged railway wagon.  The wheels were off, the windows
smashed, and one door hanging on its hinges.  By the name on it, “Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway,”
it was at once surmised that it must have been one of the wagons separated from the train which
met with the disaster on the Tay Bridge.  In the carriage was a portmanteau containing garments,
some of them marked ‘P.B.’  The wagon was sent, on the 14th, to Hangesund, to be forwarded
thence to Bergen.”

A RAILWAY SLEEPER.

A railway pointsman, caught napping at his post and convicted of wilful negligence, said to
the gaoler who was about to lock him up, “I always supposed that the safety of a railroad depended
on the soundness of its sleepers?”  “So it does,” replied the gaoler, “but such sleepers are
never safe unless they are bolted in.”

NOT TO BE CAUGHT.

The following incident is said to have occurred on the North London Railway:—Some time ago
a passenger remarked, in the hearing of one of the company’s servants, how easy it was to “do”
the company, and said, “I often travel from Broad Street to Dalston Junction without a ticket—anyone
can do it—I did it yesterday.”  When he alighted he was followed by the official, who asked
him how it was done.  For a consideration he agreed to tell him.  This being given, “Now,”
said the inquirer, “how did you go from Broad Street to Dalston Junction yesterday without
a ticket?”  “Oh,” was the reply, “I walked.”

THE DOCTOR AND THE OFFICERS.

The following is rather a good story from the Emerald Isle:—A doctor and his wife got into
a train near—well, we will not say where.  In the same carriage with the doctor were two strange
officers.  The doctor’s wife got into another compartment of the same train, the doctor not
having seen his wife in the hurry, neither knew that they were travelling by the same train
until both had got into different carriages.  Said one of the officers to his companion, “That
is the ugliest woman I ever saw.”  “She is,” replied the Son of Mars.  “I should not like to
be obliged to kiss her,” responded the first speaker.  “I should not mind doing it,” sullenly
said the doctor.  “You never would, sir, think of such a thing,” said the officer.  “I’ll bet
you a sovereign I will,” answered the man of “pills and potions.”  “Done,” said the officer.
So when they all got out at the station, the doctor went forward and kissed his wife, and won
his sovereign—the easiest-earned fee he had ever received.  The officers looked rather astonished
when he presented his wife to them.

THE BOTHERED QUEEN’S COUNSEL.

Mr. Merewether, Q.C., got into the train one morning with a whole batch of briefs and a talkative
companion.  He wanted to go through his briefs, but his companion would not let him work. 
He tried silence, he tried grunting, he tried sarcasm.  At length, when they came to Hanwell,
the gossip hit upon the unfortunate remark, “How well the asylum looks from the railway!” 
“Pray, sir,” replied Mr. Merewether, “how does the railway look from the asylum?”  The man
was silent.

A BRAVE ENGINE DRIVER.

An American contemporary says:—“John Bull, of Galion (Ohio), ought to have his name recorded
in an enduring way, for few have ever behaved so nobly as that engine driver of the New York,
Pennsylvania, and Ohio railroad.  As he was driving a passenger train last month he found that,
through somebody’s blunder, a freight train was approaching on the same track, and a collision
was inevitable.  He could have saved his own life by leaping from the engine, but, dismissing
all thoughts of himself, he resolved to try and save the passengers committed to his care.
So he reversed the engine and set the air-brakes, and then put on full steam, started the locomotive
ahead, broke the coupling attached to the train, and dashed on to receive the shock of the
collision.  The passengers escaped all injury, while the brave engineer was so badly hurt that
he died in a few hours.  Such heroism as this should not go unnoticed.”  The Cincinnati Inquirer
says: “He remained in the car until the engine leaped into the air and was dashed into the
ditch, when he attempted to spring to the ground, but had his foot caught between the frames
of the engine and tender, striking his head on the ground and causing the fatal injuries. 
Railroad men say that the act of detaching the engine as he did, not even derailing the baggage
car with his engine at the high rate of speed, and all in 150 feet, is without parallel in
railroading.  A purse of 500 dollars was raised by the grateful passengers.  The body has been
shipped to Galion for burial.”

AN INDUSTRIOUS BISHOP.

In noticing the “Life of the Rt. Rev. Samuel Wilberforce, D.D., Lord Bishop of Oxford, and
afterwards of Winchester,” a writer in the Athenæum remarks:—“Busy he was, both in Oxford and
in London, and his correspondence with all kinds of people was unusually large.  A large proportion
of his letters were written in the railway train, and dated from ‘near’ this town, or ‘between’
this and that.  We remember to have heard from one who was his companion in a railway carriage
that before the journey was half-finished the adjoining seat was littered with envelopes of
letters which he had read, and with the answers he had written since he started.  All this
undeniably shows energy and determination, and power to work.”

COOL IMPUDENCE AND DISHONESTY.

Some days since, the trains of the North London Railway were all late, and consequently every
platform was crowded.  At one of the stations an unfortunate passenger attempted to enter an
already over-crowded first-class compartment, but one of the occupants stoutly resisted the
intrusion.  Thereupon, the unfortunate one said, “I will soon settle this,” and called the
guard to the carriage door.  He then requested the official to ask two of the occupants to
produce their tickets, which proved to be third-class ones.  In spite of the delinquents protesting
there was no room in the train elsewhere, they were ejected, and the unfortunate one took their
place.  The other passengers were naturally rather indignant; and, seeing this, the successful
intruder quietly said, “I am very sorry to have had to turn those two gentlemen out, especially
as I have heard them say they were already late for an important engagement in the city; and
I am all the more sorry, seeing that I only hold a third-class ticket myself.”

                                                                 —Truth.

THE BOOKING-CLERK AND BUCKLAND.

Mr. Frank Buckland had been in France and was returning via Southampton, with an overcoat stuffed
with natural history specimens of all sorts, dead and alive.  Among them was a monkey, which
was domiciled in a large inside breast-pocket.  As Buckland was taking his ticket, Jocko thrust
up his head and attracted the attention of the booking-clerk, who immediately—and very properly—said,
“You must take a ticket for that dog, if it’s going with you.”  “Dog,” said Buckland, “it’s
no dog, it’s a monkey.”  “It is a dog,” replied the clerk.  “It’s a monkey,” retorted Buckland,
and proceeded to show the whole animal, but without convincing the clerk, who insisted on five
shillings for the dog-ticket to London. Nettled at this, Buckland plunged his hand into another
pocket and produced a tortoise, and laying it on the sill of the ticket window said, “Perhaps
you’ll call that a dog too.”  The clerk inspected the tortoise. “No,” said he, “we make no
charge for them—they’re insects.”

REMARKABLE RESCUE OF A CHILD.

An engineer on a locomotive going across the western prairie day after day, saw a little child
come out in front of a cabin and wave to him, so he got in the habit of waving back to the
child, and it was the day’s joy to see this little one come out in front of the cabin door
and wave to him while he answered back.  One day the train was belated, and it came on to the
dusk of the evening.  As the engineer stood at his post he saw by the headlight that little
girl on the track, wondering why the train did not come, looking for the train, knowing nothing
of her peril.  A great horror seized upon the engineer.  He reversed the engine.  He gave it
in charge of the other man, and then he climbed over the engine, and he came down on the cowcatcher.
He said though he had reversed the engine, it seemed as though it were going at lightning speed,
faster and faster, though it was really slowing up, and with almost supernatural clutch he
caught the child by the hair and lifted it up, and when the train stopped, and the passengers
gathered around to see what was the matter, there the old engineer lay, fainted dead away,
the little child alive and in his swarthy arms.

FEMALE FRAGILITY.

There was a time when American women prided themselves on their fragility.  To be healthy,
strong or plump was thought to be the height of vulgarity, and refinement was held to be inseparable
from leanness and consumption.  These views still obtain—so it is said—in Boston, and especially
in Bostonian literary circles; but elsewhere the American woman is growing plump and healthy,
and is actually proud of it.  While wise men are heartily glad of this change in female sentiment
and tissue, it must be admitted that there is one form of feminine fragility which has its
value.  There is a rare condition of the bony system in which the bones are so fragile that
the slightest blow is sufficient to break them. A baby thus afflicted cannot be handled, even
by the most experienced mother, without danger; and a man with fragile bones is so liable to
be broken, that there is sometimes no safety for him outside of a glass case.  The late Mrs.
Baker—for that was her latest name—was not so fragile that she could not be handled by a careful
man, but still a very light blow would usually break her.  She did not share the Bostonian
opinion of the vulgarity of strength, but she was, nevertheless, very proud of her fragility,
and by its aid her husband managed to amass a comfortable fortune within three years after
their marriage.  She is perhaps the only fragile woman on record of whom it can be said that
her whole value consisted in her fragility, but, as her story shows, her fragility was the
sole capital invested in her husband’s business.  In January, 1870, Mrs. Baker—then a single
woman, as to whose maiden name there is some uncertainty—was married to Mr. Wheelwright—James
G. Wheelwright, of Worcester, Mass.  Her husband married her on account of her well-known fragility,
but he treated her with such kindness that in the whole course of their married life he never
once broke her, even by accident.  In February, 1870, the Wheelwrights removed to Utica, N.Y.,
and one day Mr. Wheelwright took his wife to the railway station, and had her break her leg
in a small hole on the platform.  He at once sued the railway company for 10,000 dols., being
the value set by himself on his wife’s leg, and ten days afterwards accepted 5,000 dols. as
a compromise, and withdrew the suit The Wheelwrights left Utica in June, 1870, and in the following
August the dutiful Mrs. Wheelwright, who now called herself Mrs. Thomas, broke her other leg
in a hole in the platform of the railway station at Pittsburg.  Again her husband sued the
railway company for 15,000 dols., and compromised for 6,500 dols.  The leg was mended successfully,
and in July, 1871, we find the Thomases, now passing under the name of Mr. and Mrs. Smiley,
at Cincinnati, where Mr. Smiley, after long searching, discovered a piece of ragged and uneven
sidewalk, upon which his wife made a point of falling and breaking her right arm.  This time
the city was sued for 15,000 dols., and Mr. Smiley proved that his wife was a school teacher
by profession, and that the breaking of her arm rendered it impossible for her to teach, for
there as on that she could not wield a rod or even a slipper.  The city paid the 15,000 dols.
and the Smileys, having by honest industry thus made 26,500 dols., removed to Chicago, and
entered their names on the hotel register as Mr. and Mrs. McGinnis, of Portland, Me.  On the
second day after their arrival at the hotel, Mr. McGinnis found an eligible place on the piazza
for Mrs. McGinnis to break another leg, which that excellent woman promptly did. The usual
suit of 15,000 dols. was brought, and the hotel-keeper, fearing that the notoriety of the suit
would injure his hotel, was glad to compromise by paying 8,000 dols.  By this time, it is understood,
Mrs. McGinnis was willing to retire from business, but her husband had set his heart on making
50,000 dols., and like a good wife she consented to break some more bones.  It should be said
that there was very little pain attending a fracture of any one of the lady’s bones, and that
she did not in the least mind the monotony of lying in bed while the broken bones knitted themselves
together.  There can, therefore, be no charge of cruelty brought against her husband.  Indeed,
she herself entered with a hearty goodwill into the scheme of making a living with her bones,
and would go out to break a leg with as much cheerfulness as if she was going to a theatre.
In March, 1872, Mrs. Wilkins—hitherto known as Mr. McGinnis—walked into an open trench in a
street in St. Louis and broke another leg.  This time the suit brought by Mr. Wilkins against
the city did not succeed, and the inquiries which were put on foot as to the antecedents of
the Wilkinses fairly frightened them out of the city. They turned up a month later in Detroit,
where the weather was still cold, and much snow had recently fallen.  There were still 16,000
dollars to be made before the industrious pair would have the whole of their desired 50,000
dollars, and it was decided that Mrs. Wilkins—who had changed her name to Mrs. Baker—should
fall on the icy pavement and break both arms.  This, it was estimated, would be worth at least
8,000 dols., and it was hoped that the subsequent judicious breakage of two legs on the premises
of a Canadian railway would bring in 8,000 dols. more, after which the Bakers intended to retire
from business.  Early one morning Mr. Baker took his wife out and had her fall on a nice piece
of ice, where she broke both arms.  Unfortunately, she fell more heavily than was necessary,
and, in addition, broke her neck and instantly expired.  The grief of Mr. Baker naturally knew
no bounds, and he sued for 25,000 dols., all of which he recovered.  He had thus made 59,500
dols. by the aid of his fragile wife, and demonstrated that as a source of steady income a
woman who breaks easily is almost priceless.  Still, nothing could console him for the loss
of his beloved partner, and he is to-day a lonely and unhappy man.

                                                        —New York Times.

TAKING HIM DOWN A PEG.

A guard of a railway train, upon the late occasion of a hitch, which detained the passengers
for some time, gave himself so much importance in commanding them, that one old gentleman took
the wind out of his sails by calling him to the carriage door, and saying, “May I take the
liberty, sir, of asking you what occupation you filled previous to being a railway guard?”

A REMARKABLE NOTICE.

On a certain railway, the following notice appeared:—“Hereafter, when trains moving in opposite
directions are approaching each other on separate lines, conductors and engineers will be required
to bring their respective trains to a dead halt before the point of meeting, and be very careful
not to proceed till each train has passed the other.”

FLUTTER CAUSED BY THE MURDER OF MR. BRIGGS.

My vocations led me to travel almost daily on one of the Great Eastern lines—the Woodford Branch.
Every one knows that Müller perpetrated his detestable act on the North London Railway, close
by.  The English middle class, of which I am myself a feeble unit, travel on the Woodford branch
in large numbers.  Well, the demoralization of our class,—which (the newspapers are constantly
saying it, so I may repeat it without vanity) has done all the great things which have ever
been done in England,—the demoralization of our class caused, I say, by the Bow tragedy, was
something bewildering.  Myself a transcendentalist (as the Saturday Review knows), I escaped
the infection; and day after day I used to ply my agitated fellow-travellers with all the consolations
which my transcendentalism and my turn for French would naturally suggest to me. I reminded
them how Julius Cæsar refused to take precautions against assassination, because life was not
worth having at the price of an ignoble solicitude for it.  I reminded them what insignificant
atoms we all are in the life of the world.  Suppose the worse to happen, I said, addressing
a portly jeweller from Cheapside,—suppose even yourself to be the victim, il n’y a pas d’homme
nécessaire.  We should miss you for a day or two on the Woodford Branch; but the great mundane
movement would still go on, the gravel walks of your villa would still be rolled, dividends
would still be paid at the bank, omnibuses would still run, there would still be the old crush
at the corner of Fenchurch street. All was of no avail.  Nothing could moderate in the bosom
of the great English middle class their passionate, absorbing, almost blood-thirsty clinging
to life.

                                  —Matthew Arnold’s Essays in Criticism.

AN EXTRAORDINARY BLUNDER.

A correspondent, writing from Amélia les Bains, says:—A very singular blunder was committed
the other day by the officials of a railway station between Prepignan and Toulon.  A gentleman
who had been spending the winter here with his family, left last week for Marseilles, taking
with him the body of his mother-in-law, who died six weeks ago, and who had expressed a wish
to be buried in the family vault at Marseilles.  When he reached Marseilles and went with the
commissioner of police—whose presence is required upon these occasions—to receive the body
from the railway officials, he noticed to his great surprise that the coffin was of a different
shape and construction from that which he had brought from here.  It turned out upon further
inquiry that a mistake had been committed by the officials, who had sent on to Toulon the coffin
containing his mother-in-law’s body, believing that it held the remains of a deceased admiral,
which was to be embarked for interment in Algeria, while the coffin awaiting delivery was the
one which should have been sent on.  The gentleman who was placed in this awkward predicament,
having requested the railway officials to communicate at once with Toulon by telegraph, proceeded
thither himself with the coffin of the admiral, but the intimation had arrived too late.  He
ascertained when he got there that the first coffin had been duly received, taken on board,
amid “the thunder of fort and of fleet,” the state vessel which was waiting for it, and despatched
to Algeria.  He at once called upon the maritime prefect of Toulon, and explained the circumstances
of the case, but though a despatch-boat was sent in pursuit, the other vessel was not overtaken.
He is now at Toulon awaiting her return, and I believe that he declines to give up the coffin
containing the deceased admiral until he regains possession of his mother-in-law’s remains.

A CURIOUS RACE.

In July, 1877, a carrier-pigeon tried conclusions with a railway train. The bird was a Belgian
voyageur, bred at Woolwich, and “homed” to a house in Cannon Street, City.  The train was the
Continental mail-express timed not to stop between Dover and Cannon Street Station.  The pigeon,
conveying an urgent message from the French police, was tossed through the railway carriage
window as the train moved from the Admiralty Pier, the wind being west, the atmosphere hazy,
but the sun shining.  For more than a minute the bird circled round till it attained an altitude
of about half-a-mile, and then it sailed away Londonwards.  By this time the engine had got
full steam on, and the train was tearing away at the rate of sixty miles an hour; but the carrier
was more than a match for it. Taking a line midway between Maidstone and Sittingbourne, it
reached home twenty minutes before the express dashed into the station; the train having accomplished
seventy-six-and-a-half miles to the pigeon’s seventy, but being badly beaten for all that.

                                                    —All the Year Round.

A GREENLANDER’S FIRST RAILWAY RIDE.

Hans Hendrik, a native of Greenland, thus describes his first journey by rail in America:—“Then
our train arrived and we took seats in it.  When we had started and looked at the ground, it
appeared like a river, making us dizzy, and the trembling of the carriage might give you headache.
In this way we proceeded, and whenever we approached houses they gave warning by making big
whistle sound, and on arriving at the houses they rung a bell and we stopped for a little while.
By the way we entered a long cave through the earth, used as a road, and soon after we emerged
from it again.  At length we reached our goal, and entered a large mansion, in which numbers
of people crowded together.”  He likens the people going out of the railway-station to a “crowd
of church-goers, on account of their number.”

                                               —Good Words, April, 1880.

A NOVEL ACTION.

Will bad table manners vitiate legal grounds of action?  A collision recently occurred while
an Italian commercial traveller was eating a Bologna sausage in a railway train.  The shock
of the collision drove the knife so violently against his mouth as to widen it.  He brought
suit for damages.  The defence was that the injuries were caused by the knife; that the knife
should never be carried to the mouth, and that the plaintiff, having injured himself by reason
of his bad habit of eating, must take the consequences and pay his own doctor’s bill.  The
case is not yet finally decided.

                                                 —Echo, Oct. 1st., 1880.

A KISS IN THE DARK.

On one of the seats in a railway train was a married lady with a little daughter; opposite,
facing them, was another child, a son, and a coloured “lady” with a baby.  The mother of these
children was a beautiful matron with sparkling eyes, in exuberant health and vivacious spirits.
Near her sat a young lieutenant, dressed to kill and seeking a victim.  He scraped up an acquaintance
with the mother by attentions to the children.  It was not long before he was essaying to make
himself very agreeable to her, and by the time the sun began to decline, one would have thought
they were old familiar friends.  The lieutenant felt that he had made an impression—his elation
manifested it.  The lady, dreaming of no wrong, suspecting no evil, was apparently pleased
with her casual acquaintance. By-and-by the train approached a tunnel.  The gay lieutenant
leaned over and whispered something in the lady’s ear.  It was noticed that she appeared as
thunderstruck, and her eyes immediately flamed with indignation.  A moment more and a smile
lighted up her features.  What changes?  That smile was not one of pleasure, but was sinister.
It was unperceived by the lieutenant.  She made him a reply which apparently rejoiced him very
much.  For the understanding properly this narrative, we must tell the reader what was whispered
and what was replied.  “I mean to kiss you when we get into the tunnel!” whispered the lieutenant.
“It will be dark; who will see it?” replied the lady.  Into earth’s bowels—into the tunnel
ran the train.  Lady and coloured nurse quickly change seats.  Gay lieutenant threw his arms
around the lady sable, pressed her cheek to his, and fast and furious rained kisses on her
lips. In a few moments the train came out into broad daylight.  White lady looked amazed—coloured
lady, bashful, blushing—gay lieutenant befogged. “Jane,” said the white lady, “what have you
been doing?”  “Nothing!” responded the coloured lady.  “Yes, you have,” said the white lady,
not in an undertone, but in a voice that attracted the attention of all in the carriage.  “See
how your collar is rumpled and your bonnet smashed.” Jane, poor coloured beauty, hung her head
for a moment, the “observed of all observers,” and then, turning round to the lieutenant, replied:
“This man kissed me in the tunnel!”  Loud and long was the laugh that followed among the passengers.
The white lady enjoyed the joke amazingly.  Lieutenant looked like a sheep-stealing dog, left
the carriage at the next station, and was seen no more.

                                                            —Cape Argus.

THE GRAVEDIGGER’S SUGGESTION.

The Midland Railway, on being extended to London, was the occasion of the removal of a vast
amount of house property, also it interfered to a certain extent with the graveyard belonging
to Old St. Pancras Church. The company had purchased a new piece of ground in which to re-inter
the human remains discovered in the part they required.  Amongst them was the corpse of a high
dignitary of the French Romish Church.  Orders were received for the transmission of the remains
to his native land, and the delicate work of exhuming the corpse was entrusted to some clever
gravediggers.  On opening the ground they were surprised to find, not bones of one man, but
of several.  Three skulls and three sets of bones were yielded by the soil in which they had
lain mouldering.  The difficulty was how to identify the bones of a French ecclesiastic amid
so many.  After much discussion, the shrewdest gravedigger suggested that, being a Frenchman,
the darkest coloured skull must be his.  Acting upon this idea, the blackest bones were sorted
and put together, until the requisite number of rights and lefts were obtained.  These were
reverently screwed up in a new coffin, conveyed to France, and buried with all the pomp and
circumstance of the Roman Catholic Church.

AN AMUSING INCIDENT.

An American correspondent writes:—“I have just finished reading a most amusing incident, and,
as it occurs in a book not likely to fall into the hands of many of the members, I am tempted
to relate it, although it might prove to be ‘stale.’  Well, to begin: It tells of a maiden
lady, who, having arrived at the mature age of 51 without ever having seen a railway train,
decides to visit New York.  The all-important day having arrived, she seats herself calmly
on the platform of the country station, and gazes with amazement as the train draws up, takes
on its passengers, and pursues its journey.  As she stares after it the stationmaster asks
her why she did not get on if she wishes to go to New York.  ‘Get on,’ says Miss Polly, in
surprise, ‘get on!  Why, bless me, if I didn’t think this whole concern went!’  Being placed
on the next train, she proceeds on her way, when, finally, having seen so many wonderful things,
she concluded not to be astonished, whatever may happen.  A collision occurs and the gentleman
next to her is thrown to the end of the car among a heap of broken seats.  She supposes it
to be the usual manner of stopping, and quietly remarks: ‘Ye fetch up rather sudden, don’t ye?’”

A LITTLE BOY’S COOLNESS.

The suit of William O’Connor against the Boston and Lowell Railroad at Lawrence has resulted
in a verdict for the plaintiff in $10,000, one-half the amount sued for.  This suit grew out
of an accident which occurred August 27th, 1880.  The plaintiff was the father of a child then
between five and six years old.  He and his brother, three years older, were crossing a private
way maintained by the railroad for the Essex Company, and the younger boy, while walking backward,
stepped between the rail and planking of the roadway inside and was unable to extricate his
foot.  At that moment the whistle of a train was heard within a few hundred feet and out of
sight around a curve, and it appeared from the evidence that the older brother, finding himself
unable to relieve his brother, ran down the track toward the train; but finding that he could
not attract the attention of the trainmen to his brother’s condition, and that he must be run
over, ran back to him, and, telling him to lie down, pulled him outward and down and held him
there until the train had passed.  Both feet of the little fellow were cut off or mangled so
that amputation was necessary.  The theory of the defence was that the boy was not caught,
but while running across the track, fell and was run over.  But the testimony of the older
brother was unshaken in every particular.  It would be difficult to match the nerve, thoughtfulness,
and disregard of self displayed by this boy, who at that time was less than nine years old.

PHOTOGRAPHING AN EXPRESS TRAIN.

An interesting application of the instantaneous method of photography was recently made by
a firm of photographers at Henley-on-Thames.  These artists were successful in photographing
the Great Western Railway express train familiarly known as the “Flying Dutchman,” while running
through Twyford station at a speed of nearly sixty miles an hour.  The definition of this lightning-like
picture is truly wonderful, the details of the mechanism on the flying locomotive standing
out as sharply as the immovable telegraph posts and palings beside the line.  The photographers
are now engaged, we believe, in constructing a swift shutter for their camera which will reduce
the period of exposure of the photographic plate to 1-500th of a second.  The same artists
have also executed some charming pictures of the upper Thames, with floating swans and moving
boats, which cannot but win the admiration of artists and all lovers of the picturesque.

                                  —Cassell’s Family Magazine, Nov. 1880.

NERVOUSNESS.

Surely people are far more nervous now than they used to be some generations back.  The mental
cultivation and the mental wear which we have to go through tends to make that strange and
inexplicable portion of our physical construction a very great deal too sensitive for the work
and trial of daily life.  A few days ago I drove a friend who had been paying us a visit over
to our railway station.  He is a man of fifty, a remarkably able and accomplished man.  Before
the train started, the guard came round to look at the tickets.  My friend could not find his;
he searched his pockets everywhere, and although the entire evil consequence, had the ticket
not turned up, could not possibly have been more than the payment a second time of four or
five shillings, he got into a nervous tremor painful to see.  He shook from head to foot; his
hand trembled so that he could not prosecute his search rightly, and finally he found the missing
ticket in a pocket which he had already searched half-a-dozen times.  Now contrast the condition
of this highly-civilized man, thrown into a painful flurry and confusion at the demand of a
railway ticket, with the impassive coolness of a savage, who would not move a muscle if you
hacked him in pieces.

                                                     —Fraser’s Magazine.

A PROFITABLE RAILWAY.

The shortest and most profitable railway in the world is probably to be seen at Coney Island,
the famous suburban summer resort of New York. This is the “Marine Railway,” which connects
the Manhattan Beach Hotel and the Brighton Beach Hotel.  It is 2,000 feet in length, is laid
with steel rails, and has a handsome little station at each end.  Its equipment consists of
two locomotives and four cars, open at the sides, and having reversible seats; and a train
of two cars is run each way every five minutes.  The cost of this miniature road, including
stations and equipment, was 27,000 dols., and it paid for itself in a few weeks after it was
opened for business.  The operating expenses are 30 dols. a day, and the average receipts are
450 dols. a day the entire season, 900 dols. being sometime taken in.  The fare charged is
five cents.  The property paid a profit last year of 500 dols. per cent on its cost.

THE POLITE BRAHMIN.

Owing to the various dialects in the South of India, as a matter of convenience the English
language is much used for personal communication by the natives of different parts of the Presidency
of Madras.  Mr. Edward Lear, who has travelled much in that part of the country, gives the
following interesting account of a journey:—“I was in a second-class railway carriage going
from Madras to Bangalore.  There was only one other passenger beside myself and servant, and
he was a Brahmin, dressed all in white, with the string worn over the shoulder, by which you
may always recognise a Brahmin.  He had a great many boxes and small articles, which took up
a great deal of room in the compartment, and when at the next station the door was opened for
another passenger to get in, the guard said:—

“‘You cannot have all those boxes inside the carriage; some of them must be taken out.’

“‘Oh, sir,’ said the Brahmin in good English, ‘I assure you these articles are by no means
necessary to my comfort, and I hope you will not hesitate to dispose of them as you please.’

“Accordingly, therefore, the boxes were taken away.  Then the newcomer stepped in; he was also
a native, but dressed in quite a different manner from the Brahmin, his clothing being blue,
green, red, and all the colours of the rainbow, so that one saw at once the two persons were
from different parts of India.  Presently he surprised me by saying to the Brahmin,

“‘Pray, sir, excuse me for having given you the trouble of removing any part of your luggage;
I am really quite sorry to have given you any inconvenience whatever.’

“To which the Brahmin replied, ‘I beg sir, you will make no apologies; it is impossible you
can have incommoded me by causing the removal of those trifling articles; and, even if you
have done so, the pleasure of your society would afford me perfect compensation.’”

MR. FRANK BUCKLAND AND HIS BOOTS.

Mr. Spencer Walpole furnishes some interesting and amusing gossip about the late Mr. Frank
Buckland, describing some of his many eccentricities, and telling many stories relative to
his peculiar habits.  He had, it seems, a great objection to stockings and boots and coats,
his favourite attire consisting of nothing else than trousers and a flannel shirt. Boots were
his special aversion, and he never lost an opportunity of kicking them off his feet.

“On one occasion,” we are told, “travelling alone in a railway carriage, he fell asleep with
his feet resting on the window-sill.  As usual, he kicked off his boots, and they fell outside
the carriage on the line. When he reached his destination the boots could not, of course, be
found, and he had to go without them to his hotel.  The next morning a platelayer, examining
the permanent way, came upon the boots, and reported to the traffic manager that he had found
a pair of gentleman’s boots, but that he could not find the gentleman.  Some one connected
with the railway recollected that Mr. Buckland had been seen in the neighbourhood, and, knowing
his eccentricities, inferred that the boots must belong to him.  They were accordingly sent
to the Home Office, and were at once claimed.”

DRINKING FROM THE WRONG BOTTLE.

An incident has occurred on one of the suburban lines which will certainly be supposed by many
to be only ben trovato, but it is a real fact.  A lady, who seemed perfectly well before the
train entered a tunnel, suddenly alarmed her fellow-passengers during the temporary darkness
by exclaiming, “I am poisoned!”  On re-emerging into daylight, an awkward explanation ensued.
The lady carried with her two bottles, one of methylated spirit, the other of cognac.  Wishing,
presumably, for a refresher on the sly, she took advantage of the gloom; but she applied the
wrong bottle to her lips.  Time pressed, and she took a good drain. The consequence was she
was nearly poisoned, and had to apply herself honestly and openly to the brandy bottle as a
corrective, amidst the ironical condolence of the passengers she had previously alarmed.

                                                           —Once a Week.

HORSES VERSUS RAILWAYS.

A horse for every mile of road was the allowance made by the best coachmasters on the great
routes.  On the corresponding portions of the railway system the great companies have put a
locomotive engine per mile. If a horse earned a hundred guineas a year, out of which his cost
had to be defrayed, he did well.  A single locomotive on the Great Northern Railway (and that
company has 611 engines for 659 miles of line) was stated by John Robinson, in 1873, to perform
the work of 678 horses—work, that is, as measured by resistance overcome; for the horses, whatever
their number, could not have reached the speed of fifty miles an hour, at which the engines
in questions whirled along a train of sixteen carriages, weighing in all 225 tons.  There are
now upwards of 13,000 locomotives at work in the United Kingdom, each of them earning on the
average, £4,750 per annum.  But we have at the same time more horses employed for the conveyance
of passengers than we had in 1835.  In omnibus and station work—waiting upon the steam horse—there
is more demand for horseflesh than was made by our entire coaching system in 1835.

A SLIGHT MISTAKE.

An Irish newspaper is responsible for the following:—“A deaf man named Taff was run down and
killed by a passenger train on Wednesday morning. He was injured in a similar way about a year
ago.”

EXPENSIVE CONTRACTS.

An interesting glimpse into the inner working of State, and especially Russian, Government
railways was afforded in a recent discussion on railway management in Russia, published by
the Journal of the German Railroad Union.  During this debate it appears that the details were
published of the famous contract of the late American Winans with the Government concerning
the Nicholas Railroad.  By the use of considerable money, Winans succeeded in making a contract,
to extend from July 1st, 1866, for eight years, by which the Government was to pay him for
oiling cars and small car repairs at an agreed rate per passenger and per ton mile.  In addition
to this he received a fixed sum of about £15,000 (78,000 dols.) per year for painting and maintaining
the interior of the passenger cars; £6,000 for keeping up the shops, and finally £8,000 yearly
for renewing what rolling stock might be worn out.  The St. Nicholas line was eventually taken
over by the Great Russian Company, which in 1872 succeeded in making the Government annul the
contract by paying Winans a penalty of £750,000, which the Great Russian Company paid back
with interest within four years.  If the contract had been continued it would have cost the
company more than one-third of its net earnings, since the saving amounts to nearly £523,000
per annum.  Another contract which the Government had made for the same road with a sleeping-car
company was settled shortly afterward by the Government taking from the company the few cars
it had on hand, and paying £75,000 for them and £10,000 a year for the unexpired seven years
of the contract.

MR. BRASSEY’S STRICT ADHERENCE TO HIS WORD.

The following is one of such stories, illustrative of one phase of Mr. Brassey’s character—his
strict adherence to his word, under all circumstances.

When the “Sambre and Meuse” was drawing towards completion, Mr. Brassey came along as usual
with a staff of agents inspecting the progress of the work.  Stopping at Olloy, a small place
between Mariembourg and Vireux, near a large blacksmith’s shop, the man, a Frenchman or Belgian,
came out, and standing up on the bank, with much gesticulation and flourish, proceeded to make
Mr. Brassey a grand oration.  Anxious to proceed, Mr. Brassey paid him no particular attention,
but good naturedly endeavoured to cut the matter short, with “Oui, oui, oui,” and at length
got away, the Frenchman apparently expressing great delight.

“Well, gentlemen, what are you laughing at, what is the joke?” said he to his staff as they
went along.

“Why, sir, do you know what that fellow said, and for what he was asking?”

“No, indeed, I don’t; I supposed he was complimenting me in some way, or thanking me for something.”

“He was complimenting you, sir, to some tune, and asking, as a souvenir of his happy engagement
under the Great Brassey, that you would of your goodness make him a present of the shop, iron,
tools, and all belonging!”

“Did he, though!  I did not understand that.”

“No sir, but you kept on saying, ‘Oui, oui, oui,’ and the fellow’s delighted, as he well may
be, they’re worth £50 or £60.”

“Oh, but I didn’t mean that, I didn’t mean that.  Well, never mind, if I said it, he must have
them.”

It must be borne in mind, that at that time, at best, Mr. Brassey knew very little French,
and his staff were well aware of the fact.”

Sep. 13, 1872.

                                                                     S. S.

EXTRAORDINARY ACCIDENT.

In a leading article in the Birmingham Post, Nov. 12th, 1880, the writer remarks:—“The report
of Major Marindin on the collision which took place between two Midland trains, in Leicestershire,
about a month ago, has just been published, but it adds nothing to the information given at
the time when the accident happened.  The case was, as the report says, one of a remarkable,
if not unprecedented nature, for the collision arose from a passenger train running backwards
instead of forwards nearly half-a-mile, without either driver or stoker noticing that its movement
was in the wrong direction.  Shortly after the train had passed the village station of Kibworth,
where it was not timed to stop, the driver observed a knocking sound on his engine.  He pulled
up the train in order to ascertain the cause of this, and finding that nothing serious was
the matter, proceeded on his journey again, or rather intended to do so, for, by an extraordinary
mistake, he turned the screw the wrong way, so as to reverse the action of the engine, and
to direct the train back to Kibworth.  There, a mineral train was making its way towards Leicester,
and as the line was on a sharp incline the result might have been a most destructive collision.
It was, however, reduced to one of a comparatively mild description by the promptness and efficiency
with which the brakes were applied to both the trains.  Had not the mineral train been pulled
up, and the passenger train lowered from a speed of twenty to three or four miles an hour,
probably the whole of the passengers would have been crushed between the two engines.  The
passengers, therefore, owed their safety to the excellent brake-power which was at command.
The excuse offered by the driver of the passenger train for turning the engine backwards was
the shape of the reversing screw, which was of a construction not commonly used on the Midland
line, though many of the company’s engines were so fitted.  The fireman had also his apology
for making the same oversight.  He said he was at the time stooping down to adjust the injector.
Major Marindin, though admitting that the men were experienced, careful, and sober, refuses
to accept either of these excuses; but he can supply no better reason himself for the amazing
oversight they committed.  The only satisfactory part of the report is that in which the working
of the brake mechanism is spoken of.  The passenger train had the Westinghouse brake fitted
to all the carriages, and such was its efficiency that, had it extended to the engine and tender
as well, Major Marindin believes the accident would have been entirely prevented.”

REMARKABLE MEMORY FOR SOUNDS.

Among strange mental feats the strangest perhaps yet recorded are the following singular feats
of memory for sound, related in the Scientific American.  In the city of Rochester, N. Y.,
resides a boy named Hicks, who, though he has only lately removed from Buffalo to Rochester,
has already learned to distinguish three hundred locomotive engines by the sound of their bells.
During the day the boy is employed so far from the railway that he seldom hears a passing train;
but at night he can hear every train, his house being near the railroad.  To give an idea of
his wonderful memory for sounds (and his scarcely less wonderful memory for numbers also) take
the following cases.  Not long ago young Hicks went to Syracuse, and while there, he, hearing
an engine coming out of the round-house, remarked to a friend that he know the bell, though
he had not heard it for five years: he gave the number of the engine, which proved to be correct.
Again, not long since, an old switch-engine, used in the yards at Buffalo, was sent to Rochester
for some special purpose. It passed near Hicks’ house, and he remarked that the engine was
number so and so, and that he had not heard the bell for six years.  A boarder in the house
ran to the railroad, and found the number given by Hicks was the correct one.  To most persons
the bells on American locomotives seem all much alike in sound and timbre, though, of course,
a good ear will readily distinguish differences, especially between bells which are sounded
within a short interval of time.  But that anyone should be able in the first place to discriminate
between two or three hundred of these bells, and in the second place to retain the recollection
of the slight peculiarities characterising each for several years, would seem altogether incredible,
had we not other instances—such as Bidder’s and Colburn’s calculating feats, Morphy’s blindfold
chess-play, etc.—of the amazing degree in which one brain may surpass all others in some special
quality, though perhaps, in other respects, not exceptionally powerful, or even relatively
deficient.

                                      —Gentleman’s Magazine, March 1880.

A DISINGENUOUS BISHOP.

Max. O’Rell, the French author, in his book John Bull at Home, writes English people are very
great on words; lying is unknown.  I was travelling by rail one day with an English bishop.
There were five in our compartment.  On arriving at a station we heard a cry, “Five minutes
here!”  My lord bishop, with the greatest haste, set to work to spread out travelling-bag,
hat-box, rug, papers, &c.  A lady appeared at the door, and asked, “Is there room here?”  “Madam,”
replied the bishop, “all the seats are full.”  When the poor lady had been sent about her business,
we called his lordship’s attention to the fact that there were only five of us in the carriage,
and that, consequently all the seats were not taken.  “I did not say that they were,” answered
my lord; “I said that they were full.”

DROPPING THE LETTER “L.”

In an advertisement by a railway company of some unclaimed goods, the “l” dropped from the
word “lawful,” and it reads now, “People to whom these packages are directed are requested
to come forward and pay the awful charges on the same.”

THE SAFEST SEAT IN A RAILWAY CARRIAGE.

The American Engineer, as the result of scientific calculations and protracted experience,
says the safest seat is in the middle of the last car but one.  There are some chances of danger,
which are the same everywhere in the train, but others are least at the above-named place.

RAILWAYS A JUDGMENT.

In White’s Warfare of Science there is an account of a worthy French Archbishop who declared
that railways were an evidence of the divine displeasure against innkeepers, inasmuch that
they would be punished for supplying meat on fast days by seeing travellers carried by them
past their doors.

CLAIM FOR GOODWILL FOR COW KILLED ON THE RAILWAY.

A farmer living near the New York Central lost a cow by a collision with a train on the line;
anxious for compensation he waited upon the manager and after stating his case, the manager
said, “I understand she was thin and sick.”  “Makes no difference,” replied the farmer.  “She
was a cow, and I want pay for her.”  “How much?” asked the manager.  “Two hundred dollars!”
replied the farmer.  “Now look here,” said the manager, “how much did the cow weigh?”  “About
four hundred, I suppose,” said the farmer.  “And we will say that beef is worth ten cents a
pound on the hoof.”  “It’s worth a heap more than that on the cow-catcher!” replied the indignant
farmer.  “But we’ll call it that, what then?  That makes forty dollars, shall I give you a
cheque for forty dollars?”  “I tell you I want two hundred dollars,” persisted the farmer.
“But how do you make the difference?  I’m willing to pay full value, forty dollars.  How do
you make one hundred and sixty dollars?”  “Well, sir,” replied the farmer, waxing wroth, “I
want this railroad to understand that I’m going to have something special for the goodwill
of that cow!”

THE INSURANCE AGENT.

An agent of an accident insurance company entered a smoking car on a western railroad train
a few days ago, and, approaching an exceedingly gruff old man, asked him if he did not want
to take out a policy.  He was told to get out with his policy, and passed on.  A few minutes
afterwards an accident occurred to the train, causing a fearful shaking to the cars. The old
man jumped up, and seizing a hook at the side of the car to steady himself, called out, “Where
is that insurance man?”  The question caused a roar of laughter among the passengers, who for
the time forgot their dangers.

                                        —Harper’s Weekly, May 8th, 1880.

TOUTING FOR BUSINESS AND FRAUDS.

Sir Edward Watkin observed at the half-yearly meeting of the South Eastern Railway Company,
January, 1881:—“The result of this compensating law under which the slightest neglect makes
the company liable, and the only thing to be considered is the amount of damages—the effect
of this unjust law is to create a new profession compounded of the worst elements of the present
professions—viz., expert doctors, expert attorneys, and expert witnesses.  You will get a doctor
to swear that a man who has a slight knock on the head to say that he has a diseased spine,
and will never be fit for anything again, and never be capable of being a man of business or
the father of a family.  The result of that is all we can do is to get some other expert to
say exactly the contrary.  Then you have a class of attorneys who get up this business.  We
had an accident, I may tell you, at Forrest-hill two years ago.  Well, there was a gentleman—an
attorney in the train.  He went round to all the people in the train and gave them his card;
and, having distributed all the cards in his card-case, he went round and expressed extreme
regret to the others that he could not give them a card; but he gave them his name as ‘So and
So,’ his place was in ‘Such a street,’ and the ‘No, So and So’ in the City. That was touting
for business.  Now, there is a very admirable body called the “Law Association.”  Why does
not the Law Association take hold of cases of that kind?  Well, you saw in the paper the case
of Roper v. the South Eastern.  Now that was a peculiar thing.  Roper declared that from an
injury he had received in a slight accident at the Stoney-street signal box, outside Cannon-street
he was utterly incapacitated, and that, for I don’t know how many weeks and months, he was
in bed without ceasing.  The doctors, I believe, put pins and needles into him, but he never
flinched, and when the case came before the court we found that some of the medical experts
declared that it was just within the order of Providence that in twenty years he might get
better; but these witnesses thought that the chances were against it, and that he would be
a hopeless cripple.  So evidence was given as to his income; and the idea was to capitalise
it at £8,000.  That man had paid 4d. for his ticket I think—I forget the exact amount.  Our
counsel, the Attorney-General, went into the thing, with the very able assistance of Mr. Willis,
who deserves every possible credit.  We also had Mr. Le Gros Clarke, the eminent consulting
surgeon of the company, and Dr. Arkwright from the north of England, and they told us that
in their opinion it was a swindle.  And it was a swindle.  The result of it was, the Attorney-General
put his foot down upon it, and declared that it was a swindle, and the jury unanimously non-suited
Mr. Roper.  Well, singularly enough, when I say he had paid 4d., I think it was not absolutely
proved that he was in the train at all.  But although this was a case in which the jury said
there was no case, and where the Judge summed up strongly that it was a fraud, and where the
most eminent surgeon said it was an absolute delusion altogether, and where, in point of fact,
justice was done entirely to you as regards the verdict, you have £2,300 to pay for costs of
one kind or another in defending a case of swindling, because when you try to recover the costs
the man becomes bankrupt, and you won’t get a farthing; and I do mean to say I have described
a state of the law and practice that ought to excite the reprobation of every honest man in
England.”

HEROISM OF A DRIVER.

An engine-driver on the Pennsylvania Railway yesterday saved the lives of 600 passengers by
an extraordinary act of heroism.  The furnace door was opened by the fireman to replenish the
fire while the train was going at thirty-five miles an hour.  The back draught forced the flames
out so that the car of the locomotive caught fire, and the engine-driver and the fireman were
driven back over the tender into the passenger car, leaving the engine without control.  The
speed increased, and the volume of flame with it.  There was imminent danger that all the carriages
would take fire, and the whole be consumed.  The passengers were panic-stricken.  To jump off
was certain death; to remain was to be burned alive.  The engine-driver saw that the only way
to save the passengers was to return to the engine and stop the train.  He plunged into the
flames, climbed back over the tender, and reversed the engine.  When the train came to a standstill,
he was found in the water-tank, whither he had climbed, with his clothes entirely burnt off,
his face disfigured, his hands shockingly burned, and his body blistered so badly that the
flesh was stripped off in many places.  Weak and half-conscious he was taken to the hospital,
where his injuries were pronounced serious, with slight chance of recovery.  As soon as the
train stopped the flames were easily extinguished.  The unanimous testimony of the passengers
is that the engine-driver saved their lives.  His name is Joseph A. Sieg.

                                           —Daily News, Oct. 24th, 1882.

IT’S CROYDON.

As an early morning train drew up at a station, a pleasant looking gentleman stepped out on
the platform, and, inhaling the fresh air, enthusiastically observed to the guard, “Isn’t this
invigorating?”  “No, sir, it’s Croydon,” replied the conscientious employé.

YOUR TICKET.

On a Georgia railroad there is a conductor named Snell, a very clever, sociable man, fond of
a joke, quick at repartee, and faithful in the discharge of his duties.  One day as his train
well filled with passengers, was crossing a low bridge over a wide stream, some four or five
feet deep, the bridge broke down, precipitating the two passenger cars into the stream.  As
the passengers emerged from the wreck they were borne away by the force of the current.  Snell
had succeeded in catching hold of some bushes that grew on the bank of the stream, to which
he held for dear life.  A passenger less fortunate came rushing by.  Snell extended one hand,
saying, “Your ticket, sir; give me your ticket!”  The effect of such a dry joke in the midst
of the water may be imagined.

                                                     —Harper’s Magazine.

AN OLD SCOTCH LADY ON THE LOSS OF HER BOX.

A gentleman was travelling by rail from Breslau to Oppeln and found himself alone with a lady
in a second-class compartment.  He vainly endeavoured to enter into conversation with the other
occupant of the carriage; her answers were invariably curt and snappish.  Baffled in his attempts,
he proceeded to light a cigar to while away the time.  Then the lady said to him: “I suppose
you have never travelled second-class before, else you would know better manners.”  Her travelling
companion quietly rejoined: “It is true, I have hitherto only studied the manners of the first
and third-classes.  In the first-class the passengers are rude to the porters, in the third-class
the porters are rude to the passengers.  I now discover that in the second-class the passengers
are rude to each other.”

A BRAVE GIRL.

Kate Shelley, to whom the Iowa Legislature has just given a gold medal and $200, is fifteen
years old.  She lives near Des Moines, at a point where a railroad crosses a gorge at a great
height.  One night during a furious storm the bridge was carried away.  The first the Shelleys
knew of it was when they saw the headlight of a locomotive flash down into the chasm.  Kate
climbed to the remains of the bridge with great difficulty, using an improvised lantern.  The
engineer’s voice answered her calls, but she could do nothing for him, and he was drowned.
As an express train was almost due, she then started for the nearest station, a mile distant.
A long, high bridge over the Des Moines River had to be crossed on the ties—a perilous thing
in stormy darkness.  Kate’s light was blown out, and the wind was so violent that she could
not stand, so she crawled across the bridge, from timber to timber, on her hands and knees.
She got to the station exhausted, but in time to give the warning, though she fainted immediately.

                                    —Detroit Free Press, May 13th, 1882.

SHUT UP IN A LARGE BOX.

The Merv correspondent of the Daily News in a letter dated the 30th of April, 1881, remarks,
“I was very much amused by the description given me by some Tekkés of the Serdar’s departure
for Russia.  It seems that my informants accompanied him up to the point where the trans-Caspian
railway is in working order.  ‘They shut Tockmé Serdar and two others in a large box (sanduk)
and locked him in, and then dragged him away across the Sahara.  And,’ added the speakers,
‘Allah only knows what will happen to them inside that box.’  The box, I need hardly say, was
a railway carriage.”

AWFUL DEATH ON A RAILROAD BRIDGE.

A man commonly known as “Billy” Cooper, of the town of Van Etten, was walking on the railroad
track at a point not far distant from his home. In crossing the railroad bridge he made a miss-step,
and, slipping, fell between the ties, but his position was so cramped that he was unable to
get out of the way of danger.  There, suspended in that awful manner, with the body dangling
below the bridge, he heard a train thundering along in the distance, approaching every moment
nearer and nearer.  No one will ever know the struggles for life which the poor fellow made,
but they were futile; with arms pinioned to his sides he was unable to signal the engineer.
The train came sweeping on upon its helpless victim until within a few feet of the spot, when
the engineer saw the man’s head and endeavoured to stop his heavy train.  But too late; the
moving mass passed over, cutting his head from the shoulders as clean as it could have been
done by the guillotine itself.  Cooper was 60 years of age.

                                               —Ithaca (N.Y.) Journal.

THAT ACCURSED DRINK.

An English traveller in Ireland, greedy for information and always fingering the note-book
in his breast pocket, got into the same railway carriage with a certain Roman Catholic archbishop.
Ignorant of his rank, and only perceiving that he was a divine, he questioned him pretty closely
about the state of the country, whisky drinking, etc.  At last he said, “You are a parish priest,
yourself, of course.”  His grace drew himself up.  “I was one, sir,” he answered, with icy
gravity.  “Dear, dear,” was the sympathizing rejoinder.  “That accursed drink, I suppose.”

RAILWAY UP VESUVIUS.

This railway, the last new project in mountain-climbing, is now finished. It is 900 metres
in length, and will enable tourists to ascend by it to the very edge of the crater.  The line
has been constructed with great care upon a solid pavement, and it is believed to be perfectly
secure from all incursions of lava.  The mode of traction is by two steel ropes put in motion
by a steam engine at the foot of the cone.  The wheels of the carriages are so made as to be
free from any danger of leaving the rails, besides which each carriage is furnished with an
exceedingly powerful automatic brake, which, should the rope by any chance break, will stop
the train almost instantaneously.  One of the chief difficulties of the undertaking was the
water supply; but that has been obviated by the formation of two very large reservoirs, one
at the station, the other near the observatory.

                                                   —Railway Times, 1879.

EXTRAORDINARY ESCAPE OF BALLOONISTS.

Yesterday evening, Aug. 6th, 1883, a special train of “empties,” which left Charing-cross at
5.55 to pick up returning excursionists from Gravesend, had some extraordinary experiences,
such as perhaps had hardly ever occurred on a single journey.  On leaving Dartford, where some
passengers were taken up, the train was proceeding towards Greenhithe, when the driver observed
on the line a donkey, which had strayed from an adjoining field.  An endeavour was made to
stop the train before the animal was reached, but without success, and the poor beast was knocked
down and dragged along by the firebox of the engine.  The train was stopped, and with great
difficulty the body of the animal, which was killed, was extricated from beneath the engine.
While this was in progress, a balloon called the “Sunbeam,” supposed to come either from Sydenham
or Tunbridge Wells, passed over the line, going in the direction of Northfleet.  The two æronauts
in the car were observed to be short of gas, and were throwing out ballast, but, notwithstanding
this, the balloon descended slowly, and when some distance ahead of the train was, to the horror
of the passengers, seen to drop suddenly into the railway cutting two or three hundred yards
only in advance of the approaching train.  The alarm whistle was sounded, and the brakes put
on, and as the balloon dragged the car and its occupants over the down line there seemed nothing
but certain death for them; but suddenly the inflated monster, now swaying about wildly, took
a sudden upward flight, and, dragging the car clear of the line, fell into an adjoining field
just when the train was within a hundred yards of the spot.  The escape was marvellous.

PULLING A TOOTH BY STEAM.

“Dummy,” is a deaf mute newsman on the Long Island Railroad.  Lately he had suffered much in
mind and body from an aching tooth.  He did not like dentists, but he resolved that the tooth
must go.  He procured a piece of twine, and tied one end of it to the tooth and the other end
to the rear of an express train.  When the train started, Dummy ran along the platform a short
distance, and then dropped suddenly on his knees.  The engine whistled, and dummy cried, but
the train took the tooth.

A HEAVY SLEEPER.

It happens, in numerous instances, that virtuous resolves are made overnight with respect to
early rising, which resolves, when put to the test, are doomed only to be broken.  Some years
ago a clergyman, who had occasion to visit the West of England on very important business,
took up his quarters, late at night, at a certain hotel adjacent to a railway, with a view
of starting by the early train on the following morning. Previous to retiring to rest, he called
the “boots” to him, told him that he wished to be called for the early train, and said that
it was of the utmost importance that he should not oversleep himself.  The reverend gentleman
at the same time confessed that he was a very heavy sleeper, and as there would be probably
the greatest difficulty in awakening him, he (the “boots”) was to resort to any means he thought
proper in order to effect his object.  And, further, that if the business were effectually
accomplished, the fee should be a liberal one.  The preliminaries being thus settled, the clergyman
sought his couch, and “boots” left the room with the air of a determined man.  At a quarter
to five on the following morning, “boots” walked straight to “No. twenty-three,” and commenced
a vigorous rattling and hammering at the door, but the only answer he received was “All right!”
uttered in a very faint and drowsy tone.  Five minutes later, “boots” approached the door,
placing his ear at the keyhole, and detecting no other sound than a most unearthly snore, he
unceremoniously entered the room, and laying his brawny hands upon the prostrate form of the
sleeper, shook him violently and long.  This attack was replied to by a testy observation that
he “knew all about it, and there was not the least occasion to shake him so.”  “Boots” thereupon
left the room, somewhat doubtingly, and only to return in a few minutes afterwards and find
the Rev. Mr. — as sound asleep as ever.  This time the clothes were stripped off, and a species
of baptismal process was adopted, familiarly known as “cold pig.”  At this assault the enraged
gentleman sat bolt upright in bed, and with much other bitter remark, denounced “boots” as
a barbarous follow.  An explanation was then come to, and the drowsy man professed he understood
it all, and was about to arise.  But the gentleman who officiated at the — hotel, having had
some experience in these matters, placed no reliance upon the promise he had just received,
and shortly visited “No. twenty-three” again.  There he found that the occupant certainly had
got up, but it was only to replace the bedclothes and to lie down again.  “Boots” now felt
convinced that this was one of those cases which required prompt and vigorous handling, and
without more ado, therefore, he again stripped off the upper clothing, and seizing hold of
the under sheet, he dragged its depository bodily from off the bed.  The sleeping man, sensible
of the unusual motion, and dreamily beholding a stalwart form bent over him, became impressed
with the idea that a personal attack was being made upon him, probably with a view to robbery
and murder.  Under this conviction, he, in his descent, grasped “boots” firmly by the throat,
the result being that both bodies thus came to the floor with a crash.  Here the two rolled
about for some seconds in all the agonies of a death struggle, until the unwonted noise and
the cries of the assailants brought several persons from all parts of the hotel, and they,
seeing two men rolling frantically about in each other’s arms, and with the hand of each grasping
the other’s throat, rushed in and separated them.  An explanation was of course soon given.
The son of the church was effectually awakened, he rewarded the “boots,” and went off by the train.

Fortune subsequently smiled upon “boots,” and in the course of time he became proprietor of
a first-rate hotel.  In the interval the Rev. Mr. — had risen from a humble curate to the grade
of a dean.  Having occasion to visit the town of —, he put up at the house of the ex-boots.
The two men saw and recognized each other, and the affair of the early train reverted to the
mind of both.  “It was a most fortunate circumstance,” said the dean, “that I did not oversleep
myself on that morning, for from the memorable journey that followed, I date my advancement
in the Church. But,” he continued, with an expression that betokened some tender recollection,
“if I ever should require you to wake me for an early train again, would you mind placing a
mattress or feather-bed on the floor?”

                                    —The Railway Traveller’s Handy Book.

A MAD ENGINE-DRIVER.

A startling event happened at an early hour yesterday morning (Jan. 8th, 1884), in connection
with the mail train from Brest, which is due in Paris at ten minutes to five o’clock.  Whilst
proceeding at full speed the passengers observed the brakes to be put on with such suddenness
that fears were entertained that a collision was imminent, especially as the spot at which
the train was drawn up was in utter darkness.  Upon the guard reaching the engine he found
the stoker endeavouring to overpower the driver, who had evidently lost his reason.  After
blocking the line the guard joined the stoker, and succeeded in securing the unfortunate man,
but not until he had offered a desperate resistance.  The locomotive was then put in motion,
the nearest station was reached without further misadventure, and the driver was placed in
custody.  The train ultimately arrived in Paris after two hours’ delay.

A MEXICAN CHIEF’S RAILWAY IMPRESSIONS.

Steam and gunpowder have often proved the most eloquent apostles of civilization, but the impressiveness
of their arguments was, perhaps, never more strikingly illustrated than at the little railway
station of Gallegos, in Northern Mexico.  When the first passenger train crossed the viaduct,
and the Wizards of the North had covered the festive tables with the dainties of all zones,
the governor of Durango was not the most distinguished visitor; for among the spectators on
the platform the natives were surprised to recognise the Cabo Ventura, the senior chief of
a hill-tribe, which had never formally recognised the sovereignty of the Mexican Republic.
The Cabo, indeed, considered himself the lawful ruler of the entire Comarca, and preserved
a document in which the Virey Gonzales, en nombre del Rey—in the name of the King—appointed
him “Protector of all the loyal tribes of Castro and Sierra Mocha.”  His diploma had an archæological
value, and several amateurs had made him a liberal offer, but the old chieftain would as soon
have sold his scalp. His soul lived in the past.  All the evils of the age he ascribed to the
demerits of the traitors who had raised the banner of revolt against the lawful king; and as
for the countrymen of Mr. Gould, the intrusive Yangueses, his vocabulary hardly approached
the measure of his contempt when he called them herexes y combusteros—heretics and humbugs.

“But it cannot be denied,” Yakoob Khan wrote to his father, “that it has pleased Allah to endow
those sinners with a good deal of brains;” and the voice of nature gradually forced the Cabo
to a similar conclusion, till he resolved to come and see for himself.

When the screech of the iron Behemoth at last resounded at the lower end of the valley, and
the train swept visibly around the curve of the river-gap, the natives set up a yell that waked
up the mountain echoes; men and boys waved their hats and jumped to and fro, in a state of
the wildest excitement.  Only the old Cabo stood stock-still.  His gaze was riveted upon the
phenomenon that came thundering up the valley; his keen eye enabled him to estimate the rate
of speed, the trend of the up-grade, the breadth, the length, the height of the car.  When
the train approached the station, the crowd surged back in affright, but the Cabo stood his
ground, and as soon as the cars stopped he stepped down upon the track.  He examined the wheels,
tapped the axles, and tried to move the lever; and when the engine backed up for water, he
closely watched the process of locomotion, and walked to the end of the last car to ascertain
the length of the train.  He then returned to the platform and sat down, covering his face
with both hands.

Two hours later the Governor of Durango found him in still the same position.

“Hallo, Cabo,” he called out, “how do you like this?  What do you think now of America Nueva?”
(“New America,” a collective term for the republics of the American continent).

The chieftain looked up.  “Sabe Dios—the gods know—Senor Commandante, but I know this much:
With Old America it’s all up.”

“Is it?  Well, look here: would you now like to sell that old diploma?  I still offer you the
same price.”

The Cabo put his hand in his bosom, drew forth a leather-shrouded old parchment, and handed
it to his interlocutor.  “Vengale, Usted—it’s worthless and you are welcome to keep it.”  Nevertheless,
he connived when the Governor slipped a gold piece into the pouch and put it upon his knees,
minus the document.

But just before the train started, the Governor heard his name called, and stepped out upon
the platform of the palace-car, when he saw the old chieftain coming up the track.

“I owe you a debt, senor,” said he, “y le pagarè en consejo, I want to pay it off in good advice:
Beware of those strangers.”

“What strangers?”

“The caballeros who invented this machine.”

“Is that what you came to tell me?” laughed the Governor as the train started.

The old Cabo waved his hand in a military salute.  “Estamos ajustade, Senor Commandante, this
squares our account.”

                                          —Atlantic Monthly, Jan., 1884.

MY ORDERS.

“Ticket, sir!” said an inspector at a railway terminus in the City to a gentleman, who, having
been a season ticket holder for some time, believed his face was so well known that there was
no need for him to show his ticket.  “My face is my ticket,” replied the gentleman a little
annoyed.  “Indeed!” said the inspector, rolling back his wristband, and displaying a most powerful
wrist, “well, my orders are to punch all tickets passing on to this platform.”

LUGGAGE IN RAILWAY CARRIAGES.

The question of the liability of railway companies in the event of personal accident through
parcels falling from a rack in the compartments of passenger trains has been raised in the
Midlands.  In December last, a tailor named Round was travelling from Dudley to Stourbridge,
and, on the train being drawn up at Round Oak Station, a hamper was jerked from the racks and
fell with such force as to cause him serious injury.  Certain medical charges were incurred,
and Mr. Round alleged that he was unable to attend to his business for five weeks in consequence
of the accident. He therefore claimed £50 by way of compensation.  Sir Rupert Kettle, before
whom the case was tried, decided that the company was not liable, and could not be held responsible
for whatever happened in respect to luggage directly under the control of passengers.  The
case is one of some public interest, inasmuch as a parcel falling from a rack is not an uncommon
incident in a railway journey.  Moreover, the hamper in question belonged, not to the plaintiff,
but to a glass engraver, and contained four empty bottles, two razors, and a couple of knives.

                                          —Daily News, March 29th, 1884.

EFFECTS OF CONSTANT RAILWAY TRAVELLING.

A writer in Cassell’s Magazine remarks:—“We hear individuals now and then talking of the ease
with which the season-ticket holder journeys backwards and forwards daily from Brighton.  By
the young, healthy man, no doubt, the journey is done without fatigue; but, after a certain
time of life, the process of being conveyed by express fifty miles night and morning is anything
but refreshing.  The shaking and jolting of the best constructed carriage is not such as we
experience in a coach on an ordinary road; but is made up of an infinite series of slight concussions,
which jar the spinal column and keep the muscles of the back and sides in continued action.”
Dr. Radcliff, who has witnessed many cases of serious injury to the nervous system from this
cause, contributed the following conclusive case some years ago to the pages of the Lancet:—“A
hale and stout gentleman, aged sixty-three, came to me complaining of inability to sleep, numbness
in limbs, great depression, and all the symptoms of approaching paralytic seizure.  He was
very actively engaged in large monetary transactions, which were naturally a source of anxiety.
He had a house in town; but, having been advised by the late Doctor Todd to live at Brighton,
he had taken a house there, and travelled to and fro daily by the express train.  The symptoms
of which he complained began to appear about four months after taking up his residence at Brighton,
and he had undergone a variety of treatment without benefit, and was just hesitating about
trying homæopathy when I saw him.  I advised him to give up the journey for a month, and make
the experiment of living quietly in town.  In a fortnight his rest was perfectly restored,
and the other symptoms rapidly disappeared, so that at the end of the month he was as well
as ever again.  After three months, he was persuaded to join his family at Brighton, and resumed
his daily journeys.  In a few days his rest became broken and in two months all the old symptoms
returned.  By giving up the journeys and again residing in town, he was once more perfectly
restored; but, it being the end of the season, when the house at Brighton could not readily
be disposed of, and yielding to the wishes of his family, he again resumed his journeys.  In
a month’s time he was rendered so seriously unwell that he hesitated no longer in taking up
his permanent abode in town; and since that time—now more than two years ago—he has enjoyed
perfect health.”

AN ELECTRIC TRAMWAY INCIDENT.

The following appeared in the Irish Times (Dublin, 1884): “It is not generally known that the
country people along the line of the electric railway make strange uses of the insulated rails,
which are the medium of electricity on this tramway, in connection with one of which an extraordinary
and very remarkable occurrence is reported.  People have no objection to touch the rail and
receive a smart shock, which is, however, harmless, at least so far.  On Thursday evening a
ploughman, returning from work, stood upon this rail in order to mount his horse.  The rail
is elevated on insulators 18 inches above the level of the tramway.  As soon as the man placed
his hands upon the back of the animal it received a shock, which at once brought it down, and
falling against the rail it died instantly.  The remarkable part is, that the current of electricity
which proved fatal to the brute must have passed through the body of the man and proved harmless
to him.”

DUTY IN DISGUISE.

A gate-keeper in the employ of the Hessian Railway Company was recently the hero of an amusing
incident.  His wife being ill, he went himself to milk the goat; but the stubborn creature
would not let him come near it, as it had always been accustomed to have this operation performed
by its mistress.  After many fruitless efforts, he at length decided to put on his wife’s clothes.
The experiment succeeded admirably; but the man had not time to doff his disguise before a
train approached, and the gatekeeper ran to his accustomed post.  His appearance produced quite
a sensation among the officials of the passing train.  The case was reported and an inquiry
instituted, which however resulted in his favour, as the railway authorities granted the honest
gate-keeper a gratuity of ten marks for the faithful discharge of his duties.

THE MARQUIS OF HARTINGTON ON GEORGE STEPHENSON.

The Marquis of Hartington, when laying the foundation stone of a public hall to be erected
in memory of the inventor and practical introducer of railway locomotion, expressed himself
as follows:—“That almost all the progress which this country has made in the last half-century
is mainly due to the development of the railway system.  All the other vast developments of
the power of steam, all the developments of manufacturing and mining industry would have availed
but little for the greatness and prosperity of this country—in fact they could hardly have
existed at all if there had been wanting those internal communications which have been furnished
by the locomotive engine to railways brought into use by Stephenson.  The changes which have
been wrought in the history of our country by the invention, the industry, and perseverance
of one man are something that we may call astounding.  There are some things which exceed the
dreams of poetry and romance.  We are justly proud of our imperial possessions, but the steam
engine, and especially the locomotive steam-engine, the invention of George Stephenson—has
not only increased the number of the Queen’s subjects by millions, but has added more millions
to her Majesty’s revenues than have been produced by any tax ever invented by any statesman.
Comfort and happiness, prosperity and plenty, have been brought to every one of her Majesty’s
subjects by this invention in far greater abundance than has ever been produced by any law,
the production of the wisest and most patriotic Parliament.  The results of the career of a
man who began life as a herd boy, and who up to eighteen did not know how to read or write,
and yet was able to confer such vast benefits upon his country and mankind for all time, is
worthy of a national and noble memorial.”

THE STEPHENSON CENTENARY.

Of all celebrations in the North of England there was never the like of the centenary of the
birth-day of George Stephenson, June 9th, 1881.  The enthusiastic crowds of people assembled
to honour the occasion were never before so numerous on any public holiday.  Sir William Armstrong,
C.B., in his speech at the great banquet remarked:—“The memory of a great man now dead is a
solemn subject for a toast, and I approach the task of proposing it with a full sense of its
gravity.  We are met to celebrate the birth of George Stephenson, which took place just 100
years ago—a date which nearly coincides with that at which the genius of Watt first gave practical
importance to the steam-engine.  Up to that time the inventive faculties of man had lain almost
dormant, but with the advent of the steam-engine there commenced that splendid series of discoveries
and inventions which have since, to use the words of Dr. Bruce, revolutionised the state of
the world.  Amongst these the most momentous in its consequences to the human race is the railway
system—(cheers)—and with that system including the locomotive engine as its essential element,
the name of George Stephenson will ever be pre-eminently associated.  In saying this, I do
not mean to ignore the important parts played by others in the development of the railway system;
but it is not my duty on this occasion to review the history of that system and to assign to
each person concerned his proper share of the general credit. To do this would be an invidious
task, and out of place at a festival held in honour of George Stephenson only.  I shall, therefore,
pass over all names but his, not even making an exception in favour of his distinguished son.
(Cheers.)  It seldom or never happens that any great invention can be exclusively attributed
to any one man; but it is generally the case that amongst those who contribute to the ultimate
success there is one conspicuous figure that towers above all the rest, and such is the figure
which George Stephenson presents in relation to the railway system.  (Cheers.)  To be sensible
of the benefits we have derived from railways and locomotives let us consider for a moment
what would be our position if they were taken from us.  The present business of the country
could not be carried on, the present population could not be maintained, property would sink
to half its value—(hear, hear)—and instead of prosperity and progress we should have collapse
and retrogression on all sides.  (Cheers.)  What would Newcastle be if it ceased to be a focus
of railways?  How would London be supplied if it had to fall back upon turnpike roads and horse
traffic?  In short, England as it is could not exist without railways and locomotives; and
it is only our familiarity with them that blunts our sense of their prodigious importance.
As to the future effects of railways, it is easy to see that they are destined to diffuse industrial
populations over those vast unoccupied areas of the globe that abound in natural resources,
and only wait for facilities of access and transport to become available for the wants of man.
There is yet scope for an enormous extension of railways all over the world, and the fame of
Stephenson will continue to grow as railways continue to spread.  (Loud cheers.)  But I should
do scant justice to the memory of George Stephenson if I dwelt only on the results of his achievements.
Many a great reputation has been marred by faults of character, but this was not the case with
George Stephenson.  His manly simplicity and frankness, and his kindly nature won for him the
respect and esteem of all who knew him both in the earlier and later periods of his career—(cheers)—but
the prominent feature in his character was his indomitable perseverance, which broke down all
obstacles, and converted even his failures and disappointments into stepping stones to success.
It was not the desire for wealth that actuated him in the pursuit of his objects, but it was
a noble enthusiasm, far more conducive to great ends than the hope of gain, that carried him
forward to his goal.  Unselfish enthusiasm such as his always gives a tone of heroism to a
character, and heroism above all things commands the homage of mankind. Newcastle may well
be proud of its connection with George Stephenson, and the proceedings of this day testify
how much his memory is cherished in this his native district.  Any memorial dedicated to him
would be appropriate to this occasion, and if such memorial were connected with scientific
instruction it would be in harmony with his well-known appreciation of the value of scientific
education, and of the sacrifices he made to give his son the advantage of such an education.
(Cheers.)  I now, gentlemen, have to propose to you the toast which has been committed to me,
and which is ‘Honour to the memory of George Stephenson, and may the college to be erected
to his memory prove worthy of his fame.’  I must ask you to drink this toast standing; and
consider that the birth of Stephenson is a subject of jubilation.  I think that although he
is dead we may drink that toast with hearty cheering.  (Hear, hear, and loud cheers.)

Mr. George Robert Stephenson, who was warmly cheered on rising to respond to the toast, said:
“Mr. Mayor and gentlemen,—Let me, in the first place thank Sir William Armstrong for the many
kind words he has uttered in honour of the memory of George Stephenson.  It is true that he
was, as Sir William said, one of the most kind-hearted and unselfish men that ever lived; but
I suppose that no man has had a more up-hill struggle during the present century.  (Cheers).
I have now in my possession documents that would show in his early life the extraordinary and
peculiar nature of the opposition that was brought against him as a poor man.  He was opposed
by many of the leading engineers of the day; some of these men using language which, it is
not incorrect to say, was not only injurious but wicked.  This is not the proper occasion to
weary you with a long speech, but with the view of showing the peculiar mode of engineers reporting
against each other, I could very much wish, with your permission, to read a few sentences from
documents that I have in my possession, dating back to 1823.  (Hear, hear).  This, gentlemen,
will clearly show the sort of opposition I have alluded to.  It occurs at the end of a report
by an opponent upon some projected work on which the four brothers were engaged:—‘But we cannot
conclude without saying that such a mechanic as Mr. Stephenson, who can neither calculate,
nor lay his designs on paper, or distinguish the effect from the cause, may do very well for
repairing engines when they are constructed, but for building new ones, he must be at great
loss to his employers, from the many alterations that will take place in engine-building, when
he goes by what we call the rule of thumb.’  In a preceding sentence he is taunted with being
like the fly going round on a crank axle, and shouting ‘What a dust I am kicking up.’  Gentlemen,
the dust that George Stephenson kicked up formed itself into a cloud, and in every part of
the globe to which it reached it carried with it and planted the seeds of civilization and
wealth.  Notwithstanding the hard and illiberal treatment to which he was exposed, he was not
beaten; on the contrary, by his genius and his never-failing spirit, he raised himself above
the level of the very men who opposed every effort he made towards the advancement of engineering
science—efforts which have resulted in a vast improvement of our means for extracting the valuable
products of the earth, and also of our means of conveying them at a cheap rate to distant markets.
It is not too much to say that George Stephenson headed a movement by which alone could employment
have been found for an ever-increasing population.”

In the town of Chesterfield the Centenary was celebrated most befittingly.  It was there the
father of railways spent his latter days, and there he died.  Although there was not such a
flood of oratory as at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, many interesting speeches were delivered in connection
with the event.  We give some extracts from an address delivered by the Rev. Samuel C. Sarjant,
B.A., Curate-in-Charge at that time—delivered at Holy Trinity Church, Chesterfield.  An address
which, for ability, nice discrimination of thought, and true appreciation of the subject, would
not disgrace any pulpit in Christendom:—

“We meet to-day for the highest of all purposes, the worship of Almighty God.  But we also
meet to show our regard for the memory of one of the great and gifted dead.  It is no small
distinction of this town that the last days of George Stephenson were spent in it.  And it
adds to the interest of this church that it contains his mortal remains.  With little internally
to appeal to the eye, or to gratify taste, this church has yet a spell which will draw visitors
from every part of the world.  Men will come hither from all lands to look with reverence upon
the simple resting place of him who was the father of the Locomotive and of the Railway system.
And perhaps the naked simplicity which marks that spot is in keeping with a life, the grandeur
of which was due solely to the man himself, and not to outward helps and circumstances . . .

“Toil has its roll of heroes, but few, if any, of them are greater than he whose birth we commemorate
to-day.  He was pre-eminently a self-made man, one who ‘achieved’ greatness by his own exertions.
Granting that he was gifted with powers of body and mind above the average, these were his
only advantages.  The rest was due to hard work, patient, persistent effort.  He had neither
wealth, schooling, patrons, nor favouring circumstances.  He comes into the arena like a naked
athlete to wrestle in his own strength with the difficulties before him.  And these were many
and great!

“I need not dwell upon the details of a life which is so well known to most, and to some present
so vividly, from personal intercourse and friendship.  We all know what a battle he fought,
how nobly and well, first striving by patient plodding effort to remove his own ignorance,
cheerfully bending himself to every kind of work that came in his way, and seeking to gain
not only manual expertness, but a mastery of principles.  We know how he went on toiling, observing,
experimenting, saying little—for he was never given to the ‘talk of the lips’—but doing much,
letting slip no chance of getting knowledge, and of turning it to practical account.  He was
one of those, who

    While his companions slept
    Was toiling upwards in the night.

And in due time his quiet work bore fruit.  He invented a safety-lamp which alone should have
entitled him to the gratitude of posterity.  He then set himself to improve the locomotive,
and fit it for the future which his prescient mind discerned, and on a fair field he vanquished
all competitors.  He then sought to adapt the roadway to the engine and make it fit for its
new work.  And then, hardest task of all, he had to convince the public that railway travelling
was a possible thing; that it could he made safe, cheap, and rapid.  In doing this he was compelled
to design, plan, and execute almost everything with his own mind and hand. All classes and
interests were against him, the engineers, the land owners, the legislature, and the public.
He had to encounter the phantoms of ignorance and fear, the solid resistance of vested interests,
and the bottomless quagmires of Chat Moss.  But he triumphed!  And it was a well-earned reward
as he looked down from his pleasant retreat at Tapton upon the iron bands which glistened below,
to know that they were part of a network which was spreading over the whole land and becoming
the one highway of transit and commerce.  Nor was this all his satisfaction.  He knew that
Europe and America were welcoming the railway, and that it was promising to link together the
whole civilized world.

“Of the ‘profit’ of his labours to humanity I scarcely venture to speak, since it cannot possibly
be told in a few words.  The railway system has revolutionised society.  It has powerfully
affected every class, every interest and department of life.  It has given an incredible impulse
to commerce, quickened human thought, created a new language, new habits, tastes and pleasures.
It has opened up fields of industry and enterprise inaccessible and unknown before.  It has
cheapened the necessaries and comforts of life, enhanced the value of property, promoted the
fellowship of class with class, and brought unnumbered benefits and advantages within the reach
of all.  And it is yet, as to the world at large, but in the infancy of its development.

“How much, then, do we owe, under God, to George Stephenson.  How much, not merely to his energy
and diligence, but to his courage, patience, and uprightness?  For these qualities, quite as
much as gifts of genius and insight, contributed to his final success.  He was crowned because
he strove ‘lawfully.’  His patience was as great in waiting as his energy in working.  He did
not work from greed or self-glorification; and therefore the hour of success, when it came,
found him the same modest, self-restrained man as before.  He neither overrated the value of
the system which he had set up, nor made it a means of speculation and gambling.  He was a
man of sterling honesty and uprightness—of self-control, simple in his habits and tastes, given
to plain living and high thinking.  And yet he was most kindly, genial, and cheery, of strong
affections, considerate of his workpeople, tender to his family, full of love to little children
and pet animals, brimming with fun and good humour.  He had the gentleness of all noble natures,
the largeness of mind and heart which could recognise ability and worth in others, and give
rivals their due.  For the young inventor, or for such of his helpers as showed marked diligence
or promise, he had ready sympathy and aid.  Nor ought we to pass unnoticed his love of nature
and of natural beauty.  Strong throughout his whole life, this was especially conspicuous at
its close.  Such leisure as his last days brought was spent amidst flowers and fruits, gardens
and greeneries which he had planned and filled, and from the midst of whose treasures he could
look forth over venerable trees and green fields upon a wide and varied landscape.  And yet,
even in this relaxation, the old energy and earnestness of purpose asserted themselves.  He
toiled and experimented, watching the growth of his plants and flowers with more than professional
pains.  Nor is it improbable that the ardour which led him to confine himself for hours together
in a heated and unhealthy atmosphere led to his fatal illness.

“We are bound, then, to mark and admit how much the moral element in the worker contributed
to his success, and to the freshness of the regard which is felt for his memory and name. 
England is proud of his works, but prouder still of the man who did them.  Far different would
have been the result if impatience, ungenerousness, and love of greed had marred his life and
work.  The tributes of respect which we gladly lay upon his tomb to-day, would probably have
been placed elsewhere.”

REMARKABLE COINCIDENCES.

Many years ago the editor of this book and an elderly lady, the widow of a well-known farmer,
took tickets from Little Bytham for Edenham in Lincolnshire.  They were the only passengers,
and as the railway passed for nearly two miles through Grimsthorpe park, she asked the driver
if he would stop at a certain spot which would have saved us both perhaps half-a-mile’s walk.
The request was politely refused.  After going a good distance the train was suddenly pulled
up.  I opened the window and found it had stopped at the very spot we desired.  The stoker
came running by with a fine hare which the train had run over.  I said we can get out now and
he said, Oh yes.  And so through this strange misadventure to poor pussy our walk was much
shortened.

Some years before the above occurrence I was travelling by the early morning mail train from
the Midlands to the West of England.  At Taunton I perceived a crowd of persons gathered at
the front of the train.  I went forward and saw a corpse was being removed from the van to
a hearse outside the station.  On reading the inscription on the coffin plate I was somewhat
taken aback to find my own name.  So Richard Pike living and Richard Pike dead had been travelling
by the same train.  Perhaps rarely, if ever, have two more singular circumstances occurred
in connection with railway travelling.

LOSS OF TASTE.

Serjeant Ballantine in his Experiences of a Barrister’s Life, says:—“There was a singular physical
fact connected with him (Sir Edward Belcher), he had entirely lost the sense of taste; this
he frequently complained of, and could not account for.  A friend of mine, an eminent member
of the Bar, suffers in the same way, but is able to trace the phenomenon to the shock that
he suffered in a railway collision.”

INGENIOUS SWINDLING.

A party of gentlemen who had been to Doncaster to see the St. Leger run, came back to the station
and secured a compartment.  As the train was about to start, a well-dressed and respectable
looking man entered and took the only vacant seat.  Shortly after they had started, he said,
“Well, gentlemen, I suppose you have all been to the races to-day?”  They replied they had.
“Well,” said the stranger, “I have been, and have unfortunately lost every penny I had, and
have nothing to pay my fare home, but if you promise not to split on me, I have a plan that
I think will carry me through.”  They all consented.  He then asked the gentleman that sat
opposite him if he would kindly lend him his ticket for a moment; on its being handed to him
he took it and wrote his own name and address on the back of the ticket and returned it to
the owner.  Nothing more was said until they arrived at the place where they collected tickets;
being the races, the train was very crowded, and the ticket-collector was in a great hurry;
the gentlemen all pushed their tickets into his hands.  The collector then asked the gentleman
without a ticket for his, who replied he had already given it him.  The collector stoutly denied
it.  The gentleman protested he had, and, moreover, would not be insulted, and ordered him
to call the station-master.  On the station-master coming, he said he wished to report the
collector for insulting him.  “I make a practice to always write my name and address on the
back of my ticket, and if your man looks at his tickets he will find one of that description.”
The man looked and, of course, found the ticket, whereupon he said he must have been mistaken,
and both he and the stationmaster apologised, and asked him not to report the case further.

DANGEROUS LUGGAGE.

Complaints are sometimes made of the want of due respect paid on the part of porters to passengers’
luggage.  It appears that occasionally a like lack of caution is manifested by owners to their
own property.  It is said that on a train lately on a western railway in America, some passengers
were discussing the carriage of explosives.  One man contended that it was impossible to prevent
or detect this; if people were not allowed to ship nitro-glycerine or dynamite legitimately,
they’d smuggle it through their baggage.  This assertion was contradicted emphatically, and
the passenger was laughed at, flouted, and ignominiously put to scorn.  Rising up in his wrath,
he produced a capacious valise from under the seat, and, slapping it emphatically on the cover,
said, “Oh, you think they don’t, eh?  Don’t carry explosives in cars?  What’s this?” and he
gave the valise a resounding thump, “Thar’s two hundred good dynamite cartridges in that air
valise; sixty pounds of deadly material; enough to blow this yar train and the whole township
from Cook County to Chimborazo.  Thar’s dynamite enough,” he continued; but he was without
an auditor, for the passengers had fled incontinently, and he could have sat down upon twenty-two
seats if he had wanted to.  And the respectful way in which the baggage men on the out-going
trains in the evening handled the trunks and valises was pleasant to see.

The neglect of carefulness appears, in one instance at least, to have involved inconvenience
to the offending official.  “An unknown genius,” says an American periodical, “the other day
entrusted a trunk, with a hive of bees in it, to the tender mercies of a Syracuse ‘baggage-smasher.’
The company will pay for the bees, and the doctor thinks his patient will be round in a fortnight
or so.”

                                             —Williams’s Our Iron Roads.

STUMPED.

Several Sundays ago a Philadelphia gentleman took his little son on a railway excursion.  The
little fellow was looking out of the window, when his father slipped the hat off the boy’s
head.  The latter was much grieved at his supposed loss, when papa consoled him by saying that
he would “whistle it back.”  A little later he whistled and the hat reappeared.  Not long after
the little lad flung his hat out of the window, shouting, “Now, papa, whistle it back again!”
A roar of laughter in the car served to enhance the confusion of perplexed papa.  Moral: Don’t
attempt to deceive little boys with plausible stories.

EXCURSIONISTS PUT TO THE PROOF.

A good story is told of the Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincoln Railway Company.  A week or
two since, the company ran an excursion train to London and back, the excursion being intended
for their workmen at Gorton and Manchester.  There was an enormous demand for the tickets;
so enormous that the officials began, to use an expressive term, “to smell a rat.”  But the
sale of the tickets was allowed to proceed.  The journey to London was made, and a considerable
number of the passengers congratulated themselves upon the remarkably cheap outing they were
having.  But on the return journey they made a most unpleasant discovery. Their tickets were
demanded at Retford, and then the ticket-collectors insisted upon the holder of every ticket
proving that he was in the employ of the company.  The result can be imagined.  There were
more persons in the train who had no connection with the company than there were of the company’s
employés; and the former had either to pay a full fare to and from London, or to give their
names and addresses preparatory to being summoned.  We hear, from a reliable source, that the
fares thus obtained amount to about £300.

                                                  —Echo, Sept. 23, 1880.

A MONKEY SIGNALMAN.

We learn from the Colonies that a monkey signalman manages the railway traffic at Witenhage,
South Africa.  The human signalman has had the misfortune to lose both his legs, and has trained
a baboon to discharge his duties.  Jacky pushes his master about on a trolly, and, under his
directions, works the lever to set the signals with a most ludicrous imitation of humanity.
He puts down the lever, looks round to see that the correct signal is up, and then gravely
watches the approaching train, his master being at hand to correct any mistake.

A CURIOUS CLASSIFICATION.

The guard of an English railway carriage recently refused to allow a naturalist to carry a
live hedgehog with him.  The traveller, indignant, pulled a turtle from his wallet and said,
“Take this too!”  But the guard replied good naturedly, “Ho, no, sir.  It’s dogs you can’t
carry; and dogs is dogs, cats is dogs, and ’edge’ogs is dogs, but turtles is hinsects.”

PULLMAN’S CARRIAGES.

In the discussion on Mr. C. Douglas Fox’s recent paper on the Pennsylvania railway, Mr. Barlow,
the engineer of the Midland, observed that there was a certain attractive power about a Pullman’s
carriage, which ought not to be overlooked, a power which brought passengers to it who would
not otherwise travel by railway.  A Pullman’s carriage weighed somewhere about twenty tons.
The cost of hauling that weight was about 1½d. per mile; that was the sum which the Midland
Company proposed to charge for first-class passengers, so that one first-class passenger would
pay the haulage of the carriage.  If the attractive power of the carriage brought more than
one first-class passenger it would of course pay itself.

                              Herepath’s Railway Journal, Jan. 23, 1875.

PROFITABLE DAMAGES.

The Springfield Republican, of 1877, is responsible for the following story:—“The industry
of railroading has developed some thrifty characters, among whom a former employé of the New
York, New Haven, and Hartford road deserves high rank.  He was at one time at work in the Springfield
depot, and while taking a trunk out of a baggage car from Boston he was thrown over and hurt,
the baggage-smashing art being for a time reversed.  The injured employé suffered terribly,
and crawled around on crutches until the Boston and Albany and the New Haven roads united and
gave him 6000 dollars.  He was cured the next day.  Shortly afterwards a man on the Boston
and Albany road was killed, and the Company gave his widow 3,000 dollars.  The former cripple,
who had scored 6,000 dollars already, soon married her, and thus counted 9,000 dollars. He
recovered his health so completely that he was able again to work on the railroad, but finally,
not being hurt again within a reasonable time, he retired to a farm which he had bought with
a part of the proceeds of his former calamities.”

RAILWAY ENTERPRISE.

It would be difficult to close this series of Railway Anecdotes more appropriately than in
the words of George Stephenson’s celebrated son Robert at a banquet given to him at Newcastle-upon-Tyne,
in August, 1850. “It was but as yesterday,” he said, “that he was engaged as an assistant in
tracing the line of the Stockton and Darlington Railway.  Since that period, the Liverpool
and Manchester, the London and Birmingham, and a hundred other great works had sprung into
vigorous existence.  Works had been scattered over the face of our country, bearing testimony
to the indomitable enterprise of the nation and the unrivalled skill of its artists.  In referring
thus to the railway works, he must refer also to the improvement of the locomotive engine.
This was as remarkable as the other works were gigantic.  They were, in fact, necessary to
each other.  The locomotive engine, independent of the railway, would be useless.  They had
gone on together, and they now realized all the expectations that were entertained of them.
It would be unseemly, as it would be unjust, if he were to conceal the circumstances under
which these works had been constructed.  No engineer could succeed without having men about
him as highly-gifted as himself.  By such men he had been supported for many years past; and,
though he might have added his mite, yet it was to their co-operation that all his success
was owing.”