March 16th. It cleared off very pleasant this morning. Had breakfast of hard-tack and coffee.
We had orders to march, about three o'clock in the afternoon. We marched about ten miles and
went into camp on the bank of the Mississippi River. We managed to get some fence rails, build
a fire and dry off, I was so drenched it took me nearly all day to get thoroughly dry. I felt
much happier upon this old cotton plantation, for it was about as pleasant a place as I had
seen in Louisiana. We were situated on a high bluff overlooking the Mississippi River, which
spread out before us like a broad lake. The banks were lined with live-oak, and back of us
were dense forests. Hardly had we arrived when I was detailed to go on guard duty. Pretty rough
on a fellow who hadn't slept any for about forty-eight hours, but most of us were in the same
predicament. We were a pretty sleepy set to go on guard but we had to stand it, two hours on
and four off, until morning, when our cavalry were driven back upon us without loss. At three
o'clock, I was relieved and lying down on the ground I slept like a stone till eight o'clock
when the new guard came on. Here let me say, that the thunder storm we had on a Sunday afternoon
was very likely the means of saving many lives, as the Confederates, when they found that we
were retreating, turned out infantry, cavalry and artillery and pressed hard upon us but the
rain Providentially deterred them. The Thirteenth and Twenty-fifth Connecticut Regiments covered
the retreating column.

March 17th found us still in Camp Alden, for so we had named our new camp ground. In the afternoon
a half dozen of us went out on a foraging expedition. We spotted a cow, which a bullet soon
laid low. When we got her dressed, we started for a sugar plantation, a short distance away.
We found it entirely deserted but lots of sugar and molasses, as this had not been confiscated
by the United States government. We helped ourselves and managed to get a small quantity of
the sweetening ingredient up to camp, where we received a warm reception. We were all out of
sugar for our coffee and also meat for soup. That was about all the old cow was fit for. We
held dress parade at sunset in marching costume. I was quite ragged by this time, having torn
the legs nearly off my trousers, and my blouse had been badly torn while skirmishing through
the woods and cane brakes.

March 18th. Spent most of the forenoon mending the holes in my breeches. In the afternoon visited
the Twelfth Connecticut regiment for the first time in Louisiana. Saw some of the Hartford
boys and had a good time generally. After dress-parade went out on a foraging expedition, with
several others, after fence rails, as we had to have a fire to keep warm, also to make coffee
and soup. I am sure the Rebs had good reason to bring "railing accusations" against us, for
I am quite certain there wasn't a rail left within several miles of Baton Rouge.

March 19th. There was an order for inspection of arms this morning. While waiting I, with several
others, was detailed to go out foraging after corn. Went out a short distance and got all that
we could bring into camp. We received marching orders at nine o'clock in the evening.

March 20th. We were up early and on our way at four o'clock this morning. After a weary, hot
march we reached our old camp-ground at Baton Rouge at seven o'clock. As we marched past General
Banks' headquarters he came out and saluted, while the bands of the different regiments played
and we marched past at shoulder arms. That night we lay on the ground again for it was too
late and the men were too tired to pitch the tents.

March 21st. In the morning we pitched our tents, cleaned up and put our old Camp Grover in
order once more.

