The teachers of religion in none of these institutions are professionally trained. They are
usually laymen who are teaching in the other departments of the institution. The time given
varies but averages fifty-five minutes per week each. Their attitude toward the subject of
religious education is optimistic. The very fact that all of them are volunteers save three
shows that there is an interest in the process.

Four State colleges offer Teacher Training courses but they are all elective as might be expected
since they are State colleges. In all cases these colleges would have to make the most of these
courses elective in order to avoid a conflict with State constitutions. Note, however, that
Florida Agricultural and Mechanical College offer courses in social service, which are required.
Of the 325 college students enrolled in these six State institutions 165 of these are enrolled
in the religious education courses. This is more than one-third of the entire number, a larger
proportion than in the private institutions.

The State colleges have voluntary religious organizations, but none of the conductors are professionally
trained. These courses are of the same type as those found in the private institutions, except
for the denominational features.

Alcorn A. and M. College has five men in the mission study class and five in the Bible study
class. Florida A. and M. College has eight in the Bible study class and three in the mission
study. The Georgia State College has twenty in the Bible and the Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical
College sixteen. The Agricultural and Technical College of Greensboro, North Carolina, reports
none in the Bible and mission study classes.

Religious services are not foreign to the State institutions for Negroes. They are the daily
chapel exercises, Sunday morning preaching, Sunday School, Sunday afternoon or evening services,
and the weekly prayer meeting. The chapel exercises are made compulsory for the students. The
nature of the service is very much like that in the denominational and private institutions
described above.

The Sunday services are as conspicuous in these State colleges for Negroes as they are in the
private and denominational institutions. Attendance is required by every one of the State institutions
being considered. Two of these have chaplains: the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Alabama
and Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College of Mississippi. In two instances the students
attend neighboring churches and have preachers from the outside to minister unto them. Sunday
School is conducted at each of the State colleges and attendance is required. Each has on Sunday
evening some kind of meeting which the students are required to attend.

The prayer meeting in Negro colleges, State as well as private and denominational, is a permanent
organization. Each of these State colleges report that the students are required to attend
the prayer meeting. As there are 187 boarding students in the State colleges of college rank,
this means a fair attendance at Sunday services and prayer in these institutions. The other
188 attend service promiscuously.

The week of prayer for colleges is observed by all, and all regard it a valuable asset to the
religious life of their student bodies. In 1916-1917 prior to the week of prayer 119 of the
325 students of college rank enrolled in these State colleges were not professed Christians.
Subsequent to the week of prayer 24 of the one hundred nineteen were left. Thus before the
week of prayer there was 63.3 per cent professed Christians. The week of prayer was instrumental
in reducing the percentage of non-confessors. After the week of prayer 92.6 per cent of all
of the students were professors of Christianity.

Here as in the other institutions the morning and evening devotions are daily for terse periods.
They precede breakfast, in the dining halls and at the close of the study periods. The services
of the Y. M. C. A., the Y. W. C. A., and the temperance societies are very much like the services
of these organizations in the denominational and private colleges and universities. The students
in State colleges have feelings similar to those in private colleges about religious services.
Very few are defenders of the weekly prayer meetings.

Expressional activities at State colleges are not wanting. The six colleges report service
rendered in the college church and voluntary religious organizations. Seventy-seven teach Sunday
School. Five of these colleges are situated in the rural districts and there are students who
serve the rural communities in church work. All of them do some extension work of a religious
nature. Periodically the students are sent out to investigate conditions among the poor and
to offer services to relieve these conditions. Under this social service are lectures and demonstrations
portraying ideals which are genuinely religious. The great majority of the students of college
grade are assistants to the professors in this work. Five do special social service work during
three holidays, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day. They take food, fuel, clothes and
money to the needy of their communities.

THE CONCEPTION OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES

An exhaustive psychological analysis of the conception of religious education is not the aim
of this part of the study. But from certain data which has come out of the study one is able
to obtain ideas concerning the view of the educators on the aim of religious education and
the degree in which this aim is being attained. We note in the first place that all of those
who answered the questionnaires were cognizant of the religious motives in education. Perhaps
a few typical quotations will emphasize that. "I think much personal good is done. The student
gets a clearer idea of the Bible and its value in the world today." "I regard the course in
religion as vital and essential to any thorough education." "The religious value of the course
given is inestimable." "The religious training through these courses gives education the impetus
which pushes it on to its goal." "The religious courses are regarded as valuable adjuncts to
the educational institutions." "I have abundant data from graduates of this institution and
other individuals of our constituency confirming our opinion of the abiding gains for character
and efficiency through the influence of these courses and their expression in service." "Experience
is the basis of the conclusion that the religious work in the colleges gives sympathetic training
for efficient service. More attention must be given to our curricula in this respect." "The
students who are most exemplary in worthwhile endeavor are prominent in these courses and organizations."
"I have a high estimate of the actual work done by these students and of the development of
their own character."

An examination of the statements concerning the religious aims and privileges published in
the catalogues of these schools show that, theoretically at least, they have begun their task
in directing the educative process with a consciousness of the choice place of moral and spiritual
culture in the task. To illustrate, let us note the following: "The aim of all the religious
work in our institution is to build up a strong Christian character, to develop the spirit
of service, and to train in the methods and the habit of religious work." "This work aims at
teaching colored young people how to want the best things in life, and at training them in
ability to get those things by skill of hand and power of mind. Character and efficiency are
thus the twin essentials of the ideal. It would enable its pupils to make a sufficient living,
teach them to live efficient lives, and inspire them to render society sufficient service.
To hold such an aim thoroughgoingly is to be positively Christian." "To all who are inclined
to respect the Christian religion and its institutions, the welcome hand will be heartily extended;
but to those whose influence will be prejudicial to religion and good morals, no protracted
stay can be allowed; since the success of an educational institution is strictly proportional
to its moral tone." "Self-mastery, symmetrical character, high ideals and purposes are regarded
as the chief ends of education. Special attention is given to the spiritual needs of the students.
In the life and discipline of the school, constant effort is made to inculcate Christian principles."
These are some of the typical statements published in catalogues, announcements and in other
college advertising media.

One will note that although the great majority of these colleges and universities are sectarian
they have refrained, theoretically at least, from obtruding sectarianism in the religious education.
They have made sectarianism take at least a secondary place. This is further strengthened by
the fact that there are in these denominational schools 36 Catholics who apparently have met
no offensive media of instruction.

The results justify the following statement concerning the conception of religious education
in Negro colleges and universities: They conceive religious education to be no quantum of doctrine
but a life lived efficiently, being animated by the social service motive. Thus religious education
is social evolution, and ninety-nine per cent of those in charge of these institutions have
conceptions of religious education becoming more efficient than it now is. As proof of this,
I may cite the results of their answers to question; fifteen in the general questionnaire.
This question is: "In your opinion are the Negro colleges meeting the needs of definite religious
training?" Every one's answer except one might be summarized thus: Some good has been accomplished
but we are far from the real goal. We need reconstruction and a new impetus.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an essential in the process
of religious education does seem to indicate that they regard self activity. Wherever the social
service was very scant the one reporting felt it his duty to give an apology for the actual
conditions and express a hope of better results in the future. This showed that they felt it
the vital factor in the progressive socialization of the individuals. The place of prominence
given to worship, to religious services on Sunday and in the week is either an index to their
conception concerning the value of worship or else an index of their habit toward orthodoxy.
Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former for the larger number of these
institutions.

SOME CURRENT CONCEPTIONS OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN RELATION TO GENERAL EDUCATION

Religious education is considered a part of general education and is included under that genus.
What is general education? For a long time education was defined in terms of intellect, but
that ground is no longer tenable. Spencer said: "Education is the preparation for complete
living." Modern educators reject this as an inadequate statement of education. Education does
not merely prepare for something in the future. It endeavors to fill one full of life, and
human experience during the educative process. Education must be expressed in social terms.
James describes education as the organization of acquired habits of conduct and tendencies
to behavior. This emphasizes the psychological side.

It was thought that the aim of education could be expressed in purely individual terms. It
was said to be the harmonious development of all the powers of the individual. Dewey attacks
this definition showing that there is no criterion for telling what is meant by the terms used.
There is nothing in the make-up of human beings, taken in any isolated way which furnishes
controlling ends and serves to mark out powers. Unless we have the aim supplied by social life
we have only the old faculty psychology to furnish us with ideas of powers in general or the
specific powers.[3] Dewey defines education as the regulation of the process of coining to
share in the social consciousness. And the majority of educators use social terms to define
education. Soares has this conception in mind when he gives the following definition of education.
"Education is a scientifically directed process of developing progressive socialized personality."
But to achieve personality one must achieve sympathy and sympathy is one of the concerns of
religion. Hence all true education involves religion.

What is religion? Wright in the American Journal of Theology, Volume XVI, page 385, quotes
Leuba as defining religion as a belief in a psychic superhuman power. Wright has objections
to this definition on the ground of its narrowness. He attempts to add breadth to the definition
in: "Religion is the endeavor to secure the conservation of socially recognized values, through
specific actions that are believed to evoke some agency different from the ordinary ego of
the individual or from other merely human beings, and that imply a feeling of dependence upon
this agency. Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment." This is not
synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies. Creeds and ceremonies have to do
with ecclesiasticism not with religion per se. Creeds are developments of theology and dogma
is an outgrowth of religion and not religion. Modes of worship developed into rites and ceremonies
are ecclesiastical means of fostering the religious spirit but not religion. Religion is not
a feeling to be imposed from without. Religion is a life and a life-long process. "The religious
life is the response the heart of man makes to God, as the heart of the universe. The religious
person is one who is conscious of his divinity because of his kinship with the universe through
God, and who because of this consciousness seeks fellowship with God and the Godly."

Having arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion which are given by some
of the most representative students of the subjects, let us ascertain some conceptions of religious
education. As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded
as a separate entity. It is a part of the process of efficient education. The human organism
is a unit. Life is a whole and connects physical, mental and religious phases. The whole personality
is the object for consideration for the educator. The emphasis in education varies from physical
to mental and from mental to religious, or social. When the emphasis is placed on the social
or religious phase the procedure may be properly called religious education.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion. He says: "Religious
education is the process by which the individual in response to a controlled environment, achieves
a progressive, conscious social[4] order based on regard for the worth and destiny of every
individual." Professor Peabody states the matter in the following words:[5] "Religious education
is the drawing out of the religious nature, the clarifying and strengthening of religious ideals,
the enriching and rationalizing of the sense of God.... The end of religious education is service...."
Dewey's idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions of religious education. The
standard of each is found in the functional relationship of each to society. Modes of expression
and emphasis may vary but the ideals for both are the same. Dr. Haslett[7] has given an unique
representation of this conception. "Religious education," says he, "is closely related to secular
education and is largely dependent upon it. The fundamental laws and principles of psychology
and of education require to be recognized as central." Professor Coe[8] reminds us, however,
that "religious education is not and cannot be a mere application of any generalities in which
the university departments of education deal. It is not a mere particular that gets its meaning
or finds its test in the general." Religious education deals with original data and with specific
problems that rarely appear in the instruction that is called 'general' and that grow out of
the specific nature of our educational purpose. In the analysis of these data and in the determination
of the method, we can and must use matter contained in general courses of education. But the
field of study of religious education is not exhausted there, but is so specific and yet so
broad as properly to constitute a recognized branch of educational practice. The religious
purpose in religious education yields the point of view and the principles of classification
that are important for religious educators.

The conceptions of religious education just passed in review warrant certain deductions. Any
institution which meets adequately the requirements of religious education must have genuinely
religious men and women in the entire teaching and official force. Such persons will determine
the atmosphere and spirit of the institution. These teachers should have clear conceptions
of the ideals of religious education. The blind cannot lead the blind. The students must be
trained along three fundamental lines, of the religious life. First, he must have some of the
intellectual value of religion. He must have social knowledge. He must have the opportunity
of expressing the devotional attitude in worship. He must have the outlet of religious energy
in social service. The duty of the college will be far from discharged unless it makes provision
for laboratory religion where there is a working place for each member. Religion is a life
and the college should be a society where this life may be lived in its fullest extent, encouraging
practical altruism and giving the protection which an ideal society affords against demoralization.

EVOLUTION OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES

The problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real. On the basis of the investigation
we are able to point out some prominent phases of the problem. The first element of this problem
is the teacher. There are in Negro colleges, 22 teachers of religious education who have had
no professional training for the work. This means that one-fourth of the entire corp of teachers
of religion in these institutions are without the prestige, at least, of even the semblance
of professional training. Two main causes account for this. These institutions have not those
who are professionally trained on their faculties and they lack funds to procure the service
of such persons. In the next place they think it is not necessary.

One observation here is important. These services seem to be significant in proportion to the
participation in them by the students themselves. The Sunday School and the Young People's
meetings are the most popular services for the students. They do the things in which they have
a volitional interest. We cannot thrust our religious experiences upon the students from without.
They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with the environment in which they
live. The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow a program which was effective
for those who lived in another civilization.