In general, then, transfer of training will occur to the extent that the two responses use
the same bonds--to the extent, then, that there is identity of some sort. This identity which
makes transfer possible may be of all degrees of generality and of several different types.
First, there may be identity of content. For instance, forming useful connections with six,
island, and, red, habit, Africa, square root, triangle, gender, percentage, and so on, in this
or that particular context should be of use in other contexts and therefore allow of transfer
of training. The more common the particular responses are to all sorts of life situations,
the greater the possibility of transfer. Second, the identity may be that of method or procedure.
To be able to add, to carry, to know the method of classifying an unknown flower, to have a
definite method of meeting a new situation in hand-work, to know how to use source material
in history, to have gained the technique of laboratory skill in chemistry, to know how to study
in geography, should be useful in other departments where the same method would serve. Some
of these methods are, of course, of much more general service than others. In establishing
skill in the use of these various procedures, two types of responses are needed. The learner
must form connections of a positive nature, such as analyzing, collecting material, criticizing
according to standard, picking out the essential and so on, and he must also form connections
of a negative character which will cause him to neglect certain tendencies. He must learn not
to accept the first idea offered, to neglect suggestions, to hurry or to leave half finished,
to ignore interruptions, to prevent personal bias to influence criticism, and so on. These
connections which result in neglecting certain elements are quite as important as the positive
element, both in the production of the particular procedure and in the transfer to other fields.
Third, the identity may be of still more general character and be in terms of attitude or ideal.
To learn to be thorough in connection with history, accurate in handwork, open-minded in science,
persistent in Latin, critical in geometry, thorough in class and school activities; to form
habits of allegiance to ideals of truth, coöperation, fair play, tolerance, courage, and so
on, may help the learner to exhibit these same attitudes in other situations in life. Here
again the connections of neglect are important. To neglect selfish suggestions, to ignore the
escape from consequences that falsehood might make possible, to be dead to fear, to ignore
bodily aches and pains, are quite as necessary in producing conduct that is generous, truthful,
and courageous as are the positive connections made in building up the ideal.

In the discussion of transfer because of identity, it was emphasised that the presence of identity
of various types explained cases of transfer that exist and made transfer possible. In no case
must it be understood, however, that the presence of these identical elements is a warrant
of transfer. Transfer may take place under such conditions, but it need not do so. Transfer
is most sure to occur in cases of identity of substance and least likely in cases of identity
of attitude or ideals. To have useful responses to six, above, city, quart, and so on, in one
situation will very likely mean responses of a useful nature in almost all situations which
have such elements present. It is very different with the ideals. A child may be very accurate
in handwork, and yet almost nothing of it show elsewhere; he may be truthful to his teacher
and lie to his parents; he may be generous to his classmates and the reverse to his brothers
and sisters. Persistence in Latin may not influence his work in the shop, and the critical
attitude of geometry be lacking in his science. Transfer in methods holds a middle ground.
It seems that the more complex and the more subtle the connections involved, the less is the
amount and the surety of the transfer.

In order to increase the probability of transfer when connections of method or attitudes are
being formed, first, it should be made conscious, and second, it should be put into practice
in several types of situations. There is grave danger that the method will not be differentiated
from the subject, the ideal from the context of the situation. To many children learning how
to study in connection with history, or to be critical in geometry, or to be scientific in
the laboratory, has never been separated from the particular situation. The method or the ideal
and the situation in which they have been acquired are one--one response. The general elements
of method or attitude have never been made conscious, they are submerged in the particular
subject or situation, and therefore the probability of transfer is lessened. If, on the other
hand, the question of method, as an idea by itself, apart from any particular subject, is brought
to the child's attention; if truth as an ideal, independent of context, is made conscious,
it is much more likely to be reacted to in a different situation, for it has become a free
idea and therefore crystallized. Then having freed the general somewhat from its particular
setting, the learner should be given opportunity to put it in practice in other settings. To
simply form the method connections or the attitude responses in Latin and then blindly trust
that they will be of general use is unsafe. It is the business of the educator to make as sure
as he can of the transfer, and that can only be done by practicing in several fields. These
two procedures which make transfer more sure, i.e., making the element conscious and giving
practice in several fields, are not sharply divided, but interact. Practice makes the idea
clearer and freer, and this in turn makes fresh practice profitable. It is simply the application
of the law of analysis by varying concomitants.

In all this matter of transfer it must be borne in mind that a very slight amount of transfer
of some of these more general responses may be of tremendous value educationally, provided
it is over a very wide field. If a boy's study of high school science made him at all more
scientific in his attitude towards such life situations as politics, morals, city sanitation,
and the like, it would be of much more value than the particular habit formed. If a girl's
work in home economics resulted in but a slight transfer of vital interest to the actual problems
of home-making, it would mean much to the homes of America. If a boy's training in connection
with the athletics of his school fosters in him an ideal of fair play which influences him
at all in his dealings with men in business, with his family, with himself, the training would
have been worth while. To discount training simply because the transfer is slight is manifestly
unfair. The kind of responses which transfer are quite as important as the amount of the transfer.

The idea that every subject will furnish the same amount of discipline provided they are equally
well taught is evidently false. Every school subject must now be weighed from two points of
view,--first, as to the worth of the particular facts, responses, habits, which it forms, and
second, as to the opportunity it offers for the formation of connections which are of general
application. The training which educators are sure of is the particular training offered by
the subject; the general training is more problematic. Hence no subject should be retained
in our present curriculum whose only value is a claim to disciplinary training. Such general
training as the subject affords could probably be gained from some other subject whose content
is also valuable. Just because a subject is difficult, or is distasteful, is no sign that its
pursuit will result in disciplinary training. In fact, the psychology of play and drudgery
make it apparent that the presence of annoyance, of distaste, will lessen the disciplinary
value. Only those subjects and activities which are characterized by the play spirit can offer
true educational development. The more the play spirit enters in, the greater the possibility
of securing not only special training, but general discipline as well. Thorndike sums up the
present attitude towards special subjects by saying, "An impartial inventory of the facts in
the ordinary pupil of ten to eighteen would find the general training from English composition
greater than that from formal logic, the training from physics and chemistry greater than that
from geometry, and the training from a year's study of the laws and institutions of the Romans
greater than that from equal study of their language. The grammatical studies which have been
considered the chief depositories of disciplinary magic would be found in general inferior
to scientific treatments of human nature as a whole. The superiority for discipline of pure
overapplied science would be referred in large measure to the fact that pure science could
be so widely applied. The disciplinary value of geometry would appear to be due, not to the
simplicity of its conditions, but to the rigor of its proofs; the greatest disciplinary value
of Latin would appear in the case, not of those who disliked it and found it hard, but of those
to whom it was a charming game."

QUESTIONS

1. It has been experimentally determined that the ease with which one memorizes one set of
facts may be very greatly improved without a corresponding improvement in ability to memorize
in some other field. How would you use this fact to refute the argument that we possess a general
faculty of memory?

2. How is it possible for a man to reason accurately in the field of engineering and yet make
very grave mistakes in his reasoning about government or education?

3. What assurance have we that skill or capacity for successful work developed in one situation
will be transferred to another situation involving the same mental processes of habit formation,
reasoning, imagination, and the like?

4. What are the different types of identity which make possible transfer of training?

5. How can we make the identity of methods of work most significant for transfer of training
and for the education of the individual?

6. Why do ideals which seem to control in one situation fail to affect other activities in
which the same ideal is called for?

7. Under what conditions may a very slight amount of transfer of training become of the very
greatest importance for education?

8. Why may we not hope for the largest results in training by compelling children to study
that which is distasteful? Do children (or adults) work hardest when they are forced to attend
to that from which they derive little or no satisfaction?

9. Which student gets the most significant training from his algebra, the boy who enjoys work
in this field or the boy who worries through it because algebra is required for graduation
from the high school?

10. Why may we hope to secure more significant training in junior high schools which offer
a great variety of courses than was accomplished by the seventh and eighth grades in which
all pupils were compelled to study the same subjects?

11. Why is Latin a good subject from the standpoint of training for one student and a very
poor subject with which to seek to educate another student?

       *       *       *       *       *

XIII. TYPES OF CLASSROOM EXERCISES

The exercises which teachers conduct in their classrooms do not commonly involve a single type
of mental activity. It is true, however, that certain lessons tend to involve one type of activity
predominantly. There are lessons which seek primarily to fix habits, others in which thinking
of the inductive type is primarily involved, and still others in which deductive thinking or
appreciation are the ends sought. As has already been indicated in the discussion of habit,
thinking, and appreciation in the previous chapters, these types of mental activity are not
to be thought of as separate and distinct. Habit formation may involve thinking. In a lesson
predominantly inductive or deductive, some element of drill may enter, or appreciation may
be sought with respect to some particular part of the situation presented. These different
kinds of exercises, drills, thinking (inductive or deductive), and appreciation are fairly
distinct psychological types.

In addition to the psychological types of exercises mentioned above, exercises are conducted
in the classroom which may be designated under the following heads: lecturing, the recitation
lesson, examination and review lessons. In any one of these the mental process involved may
be any of those mentioned above as belonging to the purely psychological types of lessons or
a combination of any two or more of them. It has seemed worth while to treat briefly of both
sorts of lesson types, and to discuss at some length, lecturing, about which there is considerable
disagreement, and the additional topic of questioning, which is the means employed in all of
these different types of classroom exercises.

The Inductive Lesson. It has been common in the discussion of the inductive development lesson
to classify the stages through which one passes from his recognition of a problem to his conclusion
in five steps. These divisions have commonly been spoken of as (1) preparation; (2) presentation;
(3)comparison and abstraction; (4) generalization; and (5) application. It has even been suggested
that all lessons should conform to this order of procedure. From the discussions in the previous
chapters, the reader will understand that such a formal method of procedure would not conform
to what we know about mental activity and its normal exercise and development. There is some
advantage, however, in thinking of the general order of procedure in the inductive lesson as
outlined by these steps.

The step of preparation has to do with making clear to the pupil the aim or purpose of the
problem with which he is to deal. It is not always possible in the classroom to have children
at work upon just such problems as may occur to them. The orderly development of a subject
to be taught requires that the teacher discover to children problems or purposes which may
result in thinking. The skill of the teacher depends upon his knowledge of the previous experiences
of the children in the class and his skill in having them word the problem which remains unsolved
in their experience in such a way as to make it attractive to them. Indeed, it may be said
that children never have a worthy aim unless it is one which is intellectually stimulating.
A problem exists only when we desire to find the answer.

The term "presentation" suggests a method of procedure which we would not want to follow too
frequently; that is, we may hope not simply to present facts for acceptance or rejection, but,
rather, we want children to search for the data which they may need in solving their problem.
From the very beginning of their school career children need, in the light of a problem stated,
to learn to utilize all of the possible sources of information available. Their own experience,
the questions which they may put to other people, observations which they may undertake with
considerable care, books or other sources of information which they may consult, all are to
be thought of as tools to be used or sources of information available for the solution of problems.
It cannot be too often reiterated that it is not simply getting facts, reading books, performing
experiments, which is significant, but, rather, which of these operations is conducted in the
light of a problem clearly conceived by children.

The step of presentation, as above described, is not one that may be begun and completed before
other parts of the inductive lesson are carried on. As soon as any facts are available they
are either accepted or rejected, as they may help in the solution of the problem; comparisons
are instituted, the essential elements of likeness are noticed, and even a partial solution
of the problem may be suggested in terms of a new generalization. The student may then begin
to gather further facts, to pass through further steps of comparison, and to make still further
modifications of his generalization as he proceeds in his work. At any stage of the process
the student may stop to apply or test the validity of a generalization which has been formed.
It is even true that the statement of the problem with which one starts may be modified in
the light of new facts found, or new analyses instituted, or new elements of likeness which
have been discovered.

In the conduct of an inductive lesson it is of primary importance that the teacher discover
to children problems, the solutions of which are important for them, that he guide them in
so far as it is possible for them to find all of the facts necessary in their search for data,
that he encourage them to discuss with each other, even to the extent of disagreeing, with
respect to comparisons which are instituted or generalizations which are premature, and above
all, that he develop, in so far as it is possible, the habit of verifying conclusions.

The Deductive Lesson. The interdependence of induction and deduction has been discussed in
the chapter devoted to thinking. The procedure in a deductive lesson is from a clear recognition
of the problem involved, through the analysis of the situation and abstraction of the essential
elements, to a search for the laws or principles in which to classify the particular element
or individual with which we are dealing, to a careful comparison of this particular with the
general that we have found, to our conclusion, which is established by a process of verification.
Briefly stated, the normal order of procedure might be indicated as follows: (1) finding the
problem; (2) finding the generalization or principles; (3) inference; (4) verification. It
is important in this type of exercise, as has been indicated in the discussion of the inductive
lesson, that the problem be made clear. So long as children indulge in random guesses as to
the process which is involved in the solution of a problem in arithmetic, or the principle
which is to be invoked in science, or the rule which is to be called to mind in explaining
a grammatical construction, we may take it for granted that they have no very clear conception
of the process through which they must pass, nor of the issues which are involved. In the search
for the generalization or principle which will explain the problem, a process of acceptance
and rejection is involved. It helps children to state definitely, with respect to a problem
in arithmetic, that they know that this particular principle is not the one which they need.
It is often by a process of elimination that a child can best explain a grammatical construction,
either in English or in a foreign language. Of course the elimination of the principle or law
which is not the right one means simply that we are reducing the number of chances of making
a mistake. If out of four possibilities we can immediately eliminate two of them, there are
only two left to be considered. After children have discovered the generalization or principle
involved, it is well to have them state definitely the inference which they make. Just as in
the inductive process we pass almost immediately from the step of comparison and abstraction
to the statement of generalization, so in the deductive lesson, when once we have related the
particular case under consideration to the principle which explains it, we are ready to state
our inference. Verification involves the trying out of our inference to see that it certainly
will hold. This may be done by proposing some other inference which we find to be invalid,
or by seeking to find any other law or principle which will explain our particular situation.
Here again, as in the inductive lesson, the skillful teacher makes his greatest contribution
by having children become increasingly careful in this step of verification. Almost any one
can pass through the several stages involved in deductive thinking and arrive at a wrong conclusion.
That which distinguishes the careful thinker from the careless student is the sincerity of
the former in his unwillingness to accept his conclusions until they are verified.

The Drill Lesson. The drill lesson is so clearly a matter of fixing habits that little needs
to be added to the chapter dealing with this subject. If one were to attempt to give in order
the steps of the process involved, they might be stated as follows: (1) establishing a motive
for forming the habit; (2) knowing exactly what we wish to do, or the habit or skill to be
acquired; (3) recognition of the importance of the focusing of attention during the period
devoted to repetitions; (4) variation in practice in order to lessen fatigue and to help to
fix attention; (5) a recognition of the danger of making mistakes, with consequent provision
against lapses; (6) the principle of review, which may be stated best by suggesting that the
period between practice exercises may only gradually be lengthened.

Possibly the greatest deficiency in drill work, as commonly conducted, is found in the tendency
upon the part of some teachers to depend upon repetition involving many mistakes. This is due
quite frequently to the assignment of too much to be accomplished. Twenty-five words in spelling,
a whole multiplication table, a complete conjugation in Latin, all suggest the danger of mistakes
which will be difficult to eliminate later on. The wise teacher is the one who provides very
carefully against mistakes upon the part of pupils. He assigns a minimum number of words, or
a number of combinations, or a part of a conjugation, and takes care to discover that children
are sure of themselves before indulging in that practice which is to fix the habit.

In much of the drill work there is, of course, the desirability of gaining in speed. In this
field successful teachers have discovered that much is gained by more or less artificial stimuli
which seem to be altogether outside of the work required to form a habit. In drill on column
addition successful work is done by placing the problem on the board and following through
the combinations by pointing the pointer and making a tap on the board as one proceeds through
the column. Concert work of this sort seems to have the effect of speeding up those who would
ordinarily lag, even though they might get the right result. The most skillful teachers of
typewriting count or clap their hands or use the phonograph for the sake of speeding up their
students. They have discovered that the same amount of time devoted to typewriting practice
will produce anywhere from twenty-five to one hundred per cent more speed under such artificial
stimulation as they were in the habit of getting merely by asking the students to practice.
These experiences, of course, suggest that drill work will require an expenditure of energy
and an alertness upon the part of teachers, and not merely an assignment of work to be done
by pupils.

Appreciation Lesson. The work which the teacher does in securing appreciation has been suggested
in a previous chapter. It will suffice here briefly to state what may be thought of as the
order of procedure in securing appreciation. It is not as easy in this case to state the development
in terms of particular steps or processes, since, as has already been indicated in the chapter
on appreciation, the student is passive rather than active, is contemplating and enjoying,
rather than attacking and working to secure a particular result. The work of the teacher may,
however, be organized around the following heads: (1) it is of primary importance that the
teacher bring to the class an enthusiasm and joy for the picture, music, poetry, person, or
achievement which he wishes to present; (2) children must not be forced to accept nor even
encouraged to repeat the evaluation determined by teachers; (3) spontaneous and sincere response
upon the part of children should be accepted, even though it may not conform to the teacher's
estimate; (4) children should be encouraged to choose from among many of the forms or situations
presented for their approval those which they like best; (5) the technique involved in the
creation of the artistic form should be subordinated to enjoyment in the field of the fine
arts; (6) throughout, the play spirit should be predominant, for if the element of drudgery
enters, appreciation disappears.

Teachers who get good results in appreciation secure them mainly by virtue of the fact that
they have large capacity for enjoyment in the fields which they present to children. A teacher
who is enthusiastic, and who really finds great joy in music, will awaken and develop power
of appreciation upon the part of his pupils. The teacher who can enter into the spirit of the
child poetry, or of the fairy tale, will get a type of appreciation not enjoyed by the teacher
who finds delight only in adult literature. It is of the utmost importance to recognize the
fact that children only gradually grow from an appreciation or joy in that which is crude to
that which represents the highest type of artistic production. It is important to have children
try themselves out in creative work; but the influence of a teacher may be far greater than
that of the attempts of the children to produce in these fields.

Lecturing. Among the various types of methods used in teaching there is probably no one which
has received such severe criticism as the so-called lecture method. The result of this criticism
has been, theoretically at least, to abolish lecturing from the elementary school and to diminish
the use of this method in the high school, although in the colleges and universities it is
still the most popular method. Although it is true that the lecture method is not the best
one for continual use in elementary and high school, still its entire disuse is unfortunate.
So is its blind use by those who still adhere to the old ways of doing things.

The chief criticisms of the method are, first, that it makes of the learner a mere recipient
instead of a thinker; second, that the material so gained does not become part of the mental
life of the hearers and so is not so well remembered nor so easily applied as material gained
in other ways; third, that the instructor has no means of determining whether his class is
getting the right ideas or wholly false ones; fourth, the method lacks interest in the majority
of cases. Despite the truth of these criticisms, there are occasions when the lecture or telling
method is the best one--in fact the only one that can accomplish the desired result.

First, the lecture method may sometimes take the place of books. Often, even in the elementary
school, there is need for the children to get facts,--information in history or geography or
literature,--and the getting of these facts from books would be too difficult or too wasteful.
In such a case telling the facts is certainly the best way to give them. A teacher in half
a period can give material that it might take the children hours to find. By telling them the
facts, he not only saves waste of time, but also retains the interest. Very often discouragement
and even dislike results from a prolonged search for a few facts. Of course in the higher schools,
when the material to be given is not in print, when the professor is the source of certain
theories, methods, and explanations, lecturing is the only way for students to get the material.
It must be borne in mind that human beings are naturally a source of interest, particularly
to children, and therefore having the teacher tell, other things being equal, will make a greater
impression than reading it in a book.

Second, the lecture method is valuable as a means of explanation. Despite the fact that the
material given may be adapted to the child's level of development, still it often happens that
it is not clear. Then, instead of sending the child to the same material again, an explanation
by teacher or fellow pupil is much better. It may be just the inflection used, or the choice
of different words, that will clear up the difficulty.

Third, the telling method should be used for illustration. Very often when illustration is
necessary the lecture method is supplemented by illustrative material of various types--objects,
experiments, pictures, models, diagrams, and so on. None of this material, however, is used
to its best advantage unless it is accompanied by the telling method. It is through the telling
that the essentials of the illustrative material gain the proper perspective. Without such
explanation some unimportant detail may focus the attention and the value of the material be
lost. It has been customary to emphasize the need for and the value of this concrete illustrative
material. Teachers have felt that if it was possible to have the actual object, it should be
obtained; if that was not possible, why then have pictures, but diagrams and words should only
be used as a last resort. There can be no doubt as to the value of the concrete material, especially
with little children--but its use has been carried to an extreme because it has been used blindly.
For instance, sometimes the concrete material because of its general inherent interest, or
because of its special appeal to some instinct, attracts the attention of the child in such
a way that the point which was to be illustrated is lost sight of. Witness work in nature study
in the lower grades, and in chemistry in the high school. The concrete material may be so complex
that again the essential point is lost in the mass of detail. No perspective can be obtained
because of the complexity--witness work with principles of machines in physics and the circulation
of the blood in biology. Sometimes the diagram or word explanation with nothing of the more
concrete material is the best type of illustration. A fresh application of the principle or
lesson by the teacher is another means of illustration and one of the best, for it not only
broadens the student's point of view and gives another cue to the material, but it may also
make direct connection with his own experience. Illustrations in the book often fail to do
this, but the teacher knowing his particular class can make the application that will mean
most. Telling a story or incident is another way of illustration. The personal element is nearly
always present in this means, and is a valuable spur to interest.

Illustrations of all kinds, from the concrete to the story form, have been grossly misused
in teaching, so that to-day teachers are almost afraid to use any. The difficulty has been
that illustrations have been used as a means of regaining wandering attention. It has been
the sugar-coating. The illustration, then, has become the important thing and the material
nonimportant. The class has watched the experiment or listened to the story, but when that
was over the attention was gone again. Illustrations should not be the means of holding the
attention; that is the function of the material itself. If the lesson cannot hold the interest,
illustrations are worse than useless. Illustrations, then, of all kinds must be subordinated
to the material--they are only a means to an end, and that end is a better understanding of
the material. Illustrations, further, should have a vital, necessary connection with the point
they are used to make clearer. Illustrations that are dragged in, that are not vitally connected
with the point, are entirely out of place. If illustrations always truly illustrated, then
children would not remember the illustration and forget the point, for remembering the illustration
they would be led directly to the point because of the closeness of the connection.

Fourth, telling or lecturing is the best way to get appreciation. This was discussed in the
chapter on appreciation, so need only be mentioned here. The interpretation by the teacher
of the character, the picture, the poem, the policy, or what not, not only increases the understanding
of the listener, but also calls up feeling responses. It is in this telling that the personality
of the teacher, his experiences, his ideals, make themselves felt. One can often win appreciation
of and allegiance to the best in life by the use of the telling method in the appropriate situations.

Fifth, the lecture method should sometimes be used as a means of getting the desired mental
attitude. The general laws of learning emphasize the importance of the mind's set as a condition
to readiness of neurone tracts. Five or ten minutes spent at the beginning of a subject, or
a new section of work, in introducing the class to it, may give the keynote for the whole course.
A whole period may be profitably be spent this way. Not only will the telling method used on
such occasions give the right emotional attitude towards a subject, but also the right intellectual
set as well.

It is evident then that the lecture or telling method has its place in all parts of the educational
system, but its place should be clearly and definitely recognized. The danger is not in using
it, but in using it at the wrong time, and in overusing it. Bearing in mind the dangers that
adhere to its use, it is always well, whether the method is used in grades or in college, to
mix it with other methods or to follow it by another method that will do the things that the
lecture method may have left undone.

The Recitation Lesson. As has been suggested in the opening of this chapter, the recitation
lesson is not a type involving any particular psychological process. It is, rather, a method
of procedure which may involve any of the other types of work already discussed. When the recitation
lesson means merely reciting paragraphs from the book with little or no reference to problems
to be solved or skill to be developed, it has no place in a schoolroom. When, however, the
teacher uses the recitation lesson as an exercise in which he assures himself that facts needed
for further progress in thinking have been secured, or that habits have been established, or
verbatim memorization accomplished, this type of exercise is justified. It is well to remember
that the thought process involved in the development of a subject, or the solution even of
a single problem, may extend over many class periods. The recitation lesson may be important
in organizing the material which is to be used in the larger thought whole. Again, this type
of exercise may involve the presentation of material which is to be used as a basis for appreciation
in literature, in music, in art, in history, and the like. The organization of experiences
of children, whether secured through observations, discussions, or from books, around certain
topics may furnish a most satisfactory basis for the development of problems or of the gathering
of the material essential for their solution. A better understanding of the conditions which
make for success in habit formation, in thinking, and the development of appreciation, will
tend to eliminate from our schools that type of exercise in which teachers ask merely that
children recite to them what they have been able to remember from the books which they have
read or the lectures which they have heard.

The Examination and Review Lessons. In the establishment of habits, the development of appreciation,
or the growth in understanding which we seek to secure through thinking, there will be many
occasions for checking up our work. Successful teaching requires that the habit that we think
we have established be called for and additional practice given from time to time in order
to be certain that it is fixed. In like manner, the development of our thought in any field
is not something which is accomplished without respect to later neglect. We, rather, build
a system of thought with reference to a particular field or subject as a result of thinking,
and rethinking through the many different situations which are involved. In like manner, in
the field of appreciation the very essence of our enjoyment is to be found in the fact that
that which we have enjoyed we recall, and strengthen our appreciation through the revival of
the experience. The review is, of course, most successful when it is not simply going over
the whole material in exactly the same way. In habit formation it is often advisable to arrange
in a different order the stimuli which are to bring the desired responses, for the very essence
of habit formation is found in the fact that the particular response can be secured regardless
of the order in which they are called for. In thinking, as a subject is developed, our control
is measured by the better perspective which we secure. This means, of course, that in review
we will not be concerned with reviving all of the processes through which we have passed, but,
rather, in a reorganization quite different from that which was originally provided.

The examination lesson is classified here as of the same type as the review because a good
examination involves all that has been suggested by review. The writer has no sympathy with
those who argue against examinations. The only proof that we can get of the success or failure
of our work is to be found in the achievement of pupils. It is not desirable to set aside a
particular period of a week devoted entirely to examinations, because examinations in all subjects
cannot to best advantage be given during the same period. There are stages in the development
of our thinking, or in the acquiring of skill, or in our understanding and appreciation which
occur at irregular intervals and which call for a summing up of what has gone before, in order
that we may be sure of success in the work which is to follow. It is, of course, undesirable
to devote a whole week to examinations on account of the strain and excitement under which
children labor. It is entirely possible to know of the achievements of children through examinations
which have been given at irregular intervals throughout the term. It would be best, probably,
never to give more than one examination on any one day, and, as a rule, to devote only the
regular class period to such work. In another chapter the discussion of more exact methods
of measuring the achievements of children will be discussed at some length.

In all of the lesson types mentioned above, one of the most important means employed by teachers
for the stimulation of pupils is the question. It seems wise, therefore, to devote some paragraphs
to a consideration of questioning as determining skill in teaching.

Questioning. The purpose of a question is to serve as a situation which shall arouse to activity
certain nerve connections and thus bring a response. Questions, oral or written, are the chief
tools used in schools to gain responses. In some situations it is the only means a teacher
may have of arousing the response. Psychologically, then, the value of the question must be
judged by the response.

Questions may be considered from the point of view of the kind of response they call for. Probably
the most common kind of question is the one that calls for facts as answers. It involves memory--but
memory of a rote type. It does not require thinking. All drill questions are of this type.
The connections aroused are definitely final in a certain order, and the question simply sets
off the train of bonds that leads directly to the answer. Another type of question involving
the memory process is the one which initiates recall, but here thought is active. The answer
cannot be gained in a mechanical way, but selection and rejection are involved. The answer
is to be found by examining past experience, but only in a thoughtful way. Questions which
call for comparison form another type. These may vary from those which involve the comparison
of sense material to those which involve the comparison of policies or epochs. Words, characters,
plots, definitions, plans, subjects--everything with which intellectual life deals is open
to comparison. Comparison is one of the steps in the process of reasoning, and hence questions
of this type are extremely important. Then there are the questions which arouse the response
of analysis. These questions vary among themselves according to the type of analysis needed,
whether piecemeal attention or analysis due to varying concomitants. The former drives the
thinker through gradual recognition and elimination of the known elements to a consciousness
of the only partly known. The latter, by attracting the attention to unvarying factors in the
changing situations, forces out the new and until then unknown element. Some questions require
judgment as a response. The judgment may be one concerning relationships, or concerning worth
or value, or be merely a matter of definition--all questions calling for criticism are of this
type. In any case this type of question involves the thought element at its best. The question
requiring organization forms another type. There is no sharp line of division between these
types of questions. No one of them should be used exclusively. Some of them imply operations
of a simple type as well as the particular response demanded by that form. For instance, some
of the questions involving analysis imply comparison and recalling. A judgment question might
call for all the simple processes noted above and others as well. The responses then vary in
complexity and difficulty. The order of advance in both complexity and difficulty of the response
is from the mere drill question to the judgment question.

Another type of question is the one which desires appreciation as a response. This question
is one of the most difficult to frame, for it must tend to inhibit the critical attitude and
by means of the associations it arouses or its own suggestive power get the appreciative response.
Questions of this type often call for constructive imagery as a means to the desired end. Some
questions are directive in their tendency. They require as response an attitude or set of the
mind. They set the child thinking in this direction rather than that. In a sense they are suggestive,
but they suggest the line of search rather than the response. A final type of question is akin
to the one just discussed--the question whose response is further questions. Here again the
response desired is an attitude, but in this case it is more than an attitude, it is also a
definite response that shall come in the form of questions. The questions of a good teacher
should result in students asking questions both of people and of books. These last three types
of questions are perhaps the most difficult of all. Because of their complexity and subtlety
they often miss fire and fail of their purpose. Properly handled they are among the most powerful
tools a teacher has. The type of question used must vary, not only with the particular group
of children, and the type of lesson, but also with the subject. Questions that would be the
best type in mathematics might not be so good for an art lesson. The kinds of questions used
must be adapted to the particular situation.

Psychologically a question is valuable not only in accordance with the kind of response it
gets, but also in proportion to the readiness of the response. A question that is of such a
character that the response is hazy, stumbling, hesitating--a question that brings no clear-cut
response because the child does not understand what is wanted, is a poor question. This does
not at all mean that the right response must always come immediately. Some of the best questions
are put with the intention of forcing the child to realize that he can't answer--that he doesn't
know. If that type of response comes to that question, it is the best possible answer. Nor
need the whole answer come immediately. For instance, in many of the judgment questions the
thinking process aroused may take some time before the judgment is reached, and meanwhile several
partial answers may be given. But if the question asked started the process, without waste
of time in trying to find out what it meant, the question is good. With these explanations,
then, the second qualification of a good question is that it secures the appropriate response
readily. In order to do this, these factors must be considered: First, the principle of apperception
must be recognized. Every question must deal with material that is on a level with the stage
of development of the one questioned. Not only so, but the question must connect somewhere
with the learner's experience. This means a recognition also of individual differences. The
question must also be couched in language that can be understood easily by the one questioned.
To have to try to understand the language of the question as well as the question, results
in divided attention and delayed responses. Second, the question should be clear and definite.
A question that has these characteristics will challenge the attention of the class. It is
directed straight at the point at issue, and no time will be lost in wondering what the question
means, or in trying two or three tentative answers. Third, the younger the child, the simpler
the question must be. With little children, to be good a question may involve only one idea,
or relationship. The amount involved in the question, its scope and content, must be adapted
to the mental development of the learner. It is only a mature thinker who can carry simultaneously
two or three points of issue, or possibilities. Fourth, the question to gain a ready response
must be interesting. Not only must the lesson as a whole be interesting, but the questions
themselves must have the same quality. Dull questions can kill an otherwise good lesson. The
form of the question is thus a big factor in gaining a ready response. All the qualities which
gain involuntary attention can be used in framing an interesting question--novelty, exaggeration,
contrast, life, color, and so on.

The third point to be considered in determining a good question is whether or not it satisfies
the demands of economy. This demand is a fair one both from the standpoint of the best use
of the time at the disposal of the learner, and also from the standpoint of the best means
of gaining the greatest development on the part of the learner in a given time. The number
of questions asked thus enters in as a factor. When a teacher asks four or five questions when
one would serve the same purpose, she is not only wasting time, but the child is not getting
the opportunity to do any thinking and therefore is not developing. Recent studies on the actual
number of questions asked in a recitation point to the conclusion that economy both of time
and in development is being seriously overlooked. Economy in response may also be brightened
by preserving a logical sequence between questions. It is a matter of fact in psychology that
associations are systematized about central ideas; it is also a fact that the set of the mind,
in this direction rather than that, is characteristic of all work. Logical sequence, then,
makes use of both these facts--both of the systematization of ideas and of the mental attitude.

The fourth test of good questioning is the universality of its appeal. Some questions which
are otherwise good appeal but to comparatively few in the class. This, of course, means that
responses are being gained but from few. The best questioning stimulates most of the class;
all members of the class are working. In order to secure this result the questions must be
properly distributed over the class. The bright pupils must not be allowed to do all the work;
or, on the other hand, all the attention of the teachers must not be given to the dull pupils.
Not only should the questions be well distributed, but they must vary according to the individual
ability of the particular child. This has already been emphasized in dealing with readiness
of response. Many a lesson has been unsuccessful because the teacher gave too difficult a question
to a dull child, and while she was struggling with him, she lost the rest of the class. The
reverse is also true, to give a bright child a question that requires almost no thinking means
that a mechanical answer will be given and no further activity stimulated. The extent to which
all the class are mentally active is one measure of a good question.

QUESTIONS

1. Give an example of a lesson which you have taught which was predominantly inductive. Show
how you proceeded from the discovery of the problem to your pupils to the solution attained.

2. What is involved in the "step" of presentation?

3. Why may we not consider the several "steps" of the inductive lesson as occurring in a definite
and mutually exclusive sequence?

4. In what respect is the procedure in a deductive lesson like that which you follow in an
inductive lesson?

5. Show how verification is an important element in both inductive and deductive lessons.

6. Give illustrations of successful drill lessons and make clear the reason for the degree
of success achieved.

7. What measures have you found most advantageous in securing speed in drill work?

8. What are the elements which make for success in an appreciation lesson?

9. Upon what grounds and to what extent can lecturing be defended as a method of instruction?

10. What may be the relation between a good recitation lesson and the solution of a problem?
Growth in power of appreciation?

11. For what purposes should examinations be given? When should examinations be given?

12. When are questions which call for facts justified?

13. Why are questions which call for comparisons to be considered important?

14. Why is it important to phrase questions carefully?

15. Why should a teacher ask some questions which cannot be answered immediately?

16. What criteria would you apply in testing the questions which you put to your class?

17. Write five questions which in your judgment will demand thinking upon some topic which
you plan to teach to your class.

       *       *       *       *       *

XIV. HOW TO STUDY

The term study has been used very loosely by both teachers and children. As used by teachers
it frequently meant something very different from what children had in mind when they used
it. Further, teachers themselves have often used the term in connection with mental activities
which, technically speaking, could not possibly come under that head. Much confusion and lack
of efficient work has been the result. Recently various attempts have been made to give the
term study a more exact meaning. McMurry defines it as "the work that is necessary in the assimilation
of ideas"--"the vigorous application of the mind to a subject for the satisfaction of a felt
need." In other words, study is thinking. Psychologically, what makes for good thinking makes
for good study. Study is controlled mental activity working towards the realization of a goal.
It is the adaptation of means to end, in the attempt to satisfy a felt need. It involves a
definite purpose or goal, which is problematic, the selection and rejection of suggestions,
tentative judgments, and conclusion. The mind of the one who studies is active, vigorously
active, not in an aimless fashion, but along sharply defined lines. This is the essential characteristic
of all study.

There are, however, various types of study which differ materially from each other according
to the subject matter or to the type of response required. Some study involves comparatively
little thinking. The directed activity must be present, but the choice, the judgment, may need
to be exercised only in the beginning when methods of procedure need to be selected, and later
on, perhaps, when successes or failures need to be noted and changes made in the methods accordingly.
Another type of study needs continual thinking of the most active sort all the way through
the period. Just the proportion of the various factors involved in thinking which is present
at any given study period must be determined by the response. A type of study which would be
completely satisfactory for one subject needing one response, would be entirely inadequate
for another subject needing another response. To illustrate, in some cases the study must deal
with habit formation. The need felt is to learn a mechanical response of a very definite nature
to this situation; the problem is to get that response. The thinking would come in in deciding
upon the method, in watching for successes, in criticizing progress, and in judging when the
end was obtained. A large part of the time spent in study would, however, need to be spent
in repetition, in drill. Of such character is study of spelling, of vocabularies, of dates;
study in order to gain skill in adding, or speed in reading, or to improve in writing or sewing.
Much of habit formation goes on without study--in fact, to some it may seem to be ludicrous
to use the word "study" in connection with the formation of habits. It is just because the
study elements in connection with responses of this type have been omitted that there has been
such a tremendous waste of time in teaching children to form right habits. This omission also
explains the poor results, for the process has been mechanical and blind on the part of the
student. At the other extreme in types of study is that which can be used in science and mathematics,
in geography and history, when the major part of the time is given to selecting and rejecting
suggestions and seems required by the goal. In this type the habituation, the fixing of the
material, comes largely as a by-product of the factors used in the thinking.

Study may, then, be classified according as the response required is physical habit, memory,
appreciation, or judgment. These types overlap, no one of them can exist absolutely alone,
but it is possible to name them according to the response. Study may also be classified into
supervised study, or unsupervised study, into individual or group study. We might also classify
study as it has to do with books, with people, or with materials. The term has been rather
arbitrarily applied to activities that dealt with books, but surely much study is accomplished
when people are consulted instead of books, and also when the sources of information or the
standards are flowers, or rocks, or textiles.

Study, then, is a big term, including many different varieties of activities, of varying degrees
of difficulty and responsibility. It cannot possibly be taught all at once, according to one
method, at one spot in the school curriculum. Power to study is of very gradual growth. It
must proceed slowly, from simple to complex types. From easy to difficult problems, from situations
where there is close supervision and direction to situations where the student assumes full
responsibility. Knowing how to study is not an inborn gift--it does not come as a matter of
intuition, nor does it come in some mysterious way when the child is of high school age. It
is governed by the laws of learning, or readiness, exercise, and effect, just as truly as any
other ability is. If adults are to know how to study, if they are to use the technique of the
various kinds of study efficiently, children must be taught how. Nor can we expect the upper
grammar grade or the high school teachers to do this. Habits of study must be formed just as
soon as the responses to which it leads are needed. Beginning down in the kindergarten with
study in connection with physical and mental habits, the child should be taught how to study.
The type must gradually become more complex; he must pass from group to individual study, from
supervised to unsupervised, but it must all come logically, from step to step. True, it is
not easy to teach how to study. A careful analysis of the various types with their peculiar
elements should be a help. First, however, there are some general principles that underlie
all study which must be discussed.

Study must have, as has already been stated, a purpose. The individual, in order to exercise
his mind in a controlled way, must have an aim. The clearer and more definite the aim, whether
it be little or big, the better the study will be. From the beginning, then, children must
be taught to make sure they know what they are going to do before beginning to study. It may
be necessary to teach them in the early grades to say to themselves or to the class just what
they are going to accomplish in the study. Teach them when the lesson is assigned to write
down in their books just what the problem for study is. Warn them never to begin study without
definitely knowing the aim--if they don't know it, make them realize that the first thing to
do is to find out the purpose by asking some one else. Better no study at all than aimless
or misdirected activity, because of lack of purpose.

No study worthy of the name can be carried on without interest. The child who studies well
must be brought to realize this. The value of interest can be brought home to him by having
him compare the work he does, the time he spends, and how he feels when studying something
in which he has a vital interest with the results when the topic is uninteresting. Of course,
as will be pointed out later, much of the gaining of interest lies in the hands of the teacher
necessarily, but if the child realizes the need of it in efficient study, some responsibility
will rest on him to find an interest if it is not already there. No matter how expert the teacher
may be, because of individual differences no problem will be equally interesting to all pupils
in itself, and no incentive will have an equal appeal to all children. Therefore children should
be taught to find interest for themselves. Certain devices can be suggested, such as working
with another child and competing with him, "making believe" in study, and finding some connection
with something in which he is interested, working against his own score, and the like.

Not only do the demands of economy require that the topic of study receive concentrated attention,
but the results themselves are better when such is the case. Half an hour of concentrated work
gives much better results than an hour of study with scattered attention. An hour spent when
half an hour would do is thus not only wasteful of time, but is productive of poorer results
and bad habits of study as well. Children need to be taught this from the beginning. Much time
is wasted even by mature university students when they suppose themselves to be studying. Children
can be taught to ignore distractions--to train themselves to keep their eyes on the book, despite
the fact that the door is opened, or a seat mate is looking for a book. They should be encouraged
to set themselves time limits in various subjects and adhere to them. It is economical to follow
a regular schedule in study--either in the school or at home. Let each child make out his study
schedule and keep to it. Teach children that the best work is done when they are calm and steady.
That either excitement or worry is a hindrance. Therefore they should avoid doing their studying
under those conditions, and should do all they can to remove such conditions. Training children
to do their best and then not to worry would not only improve the health of many upper grammar
grade and high school children, but would also improve their work.

Study requires a certain critical attitude, a checking up of results against the problem set.
In order to be efficient in study a child should know when he has reached the solution, when
the means have been adapted to the end, when he has reached the goal. This checking up, of
course, means habits of self-criticism and standards. Sometimes all that is necessary is for
the child to be made conscious of this fact so that he can test himself, for instance, in memory
work, or in solving a problem in mathematics. On the other hand, sometimes he will have to
compare his work with definite standards, such as the Thorndike Handwriting Scale, or the Hillegas
Composition Scale.[19] In other instances, he will have to search for standards. He will need
to know what his classmates have accomplished, what other people think, what other text-books
say, and so on. Gradually he must be made conscious that study is a controlled activity, and
unless it reaches the goal, and the correct one, it is useless. He must be made to feel that
the responsibility to see that such results are reached rests on him.

These, then, are the general factors involved in all types of study, and therefore are fundamental
to good habits of study: a clear purpose; vital interest of some kind; concentrated attention,
and a critical attitude. There are further additional suggestions which are peculiar to the
special type of study.

In study which is directed to habit formation, the student should be taught the danger of allowing
exceptions. He should know the possibility of undoing much good work through a little carelessness.
Preaching won't bring this home to him--it must come through having his attention attracted
to such an occurrence in his own work or in that of his mates. After that knowledge of the
actual experiences of others, athletes, musicians, and others will help to intensify the impression.
The value of repetition as one of the chief factors in habit formation must be emphasized.
The child should be encouraged to make opportunities for practice both in free minutes during
the school program, and outside of school. He must be taught in habit formation to practice
the new habit in the way it is to be used: practicing the sounds of letters in words, the writing
movements in writing words, swimming movements in the water, and so on. Practicing the whole
movements, not trying to gain perfection in parts of it and then putting it together. It is
important also that the learner be taught to keep his attention on the result to be obtained,
instead of the movements. He should attend to the swing of the club, the lightness of the song,
the cut the saw is making, the words he is writing, instead of the muscle movements involved.
In breaking up bad habits it is sometimes necessary to concentrate on a part or a movement,
when that is the crux of the error, but in general it is a bad practice when forming a new
habit. The child must also learn to watch the habit of skill he is forming for signs of improvement
and then to try to find out the reason for it. It has been proved experimentally that much
of the improvement in habits of skill comes unconsciously to the learner, and necessarily so,
but that in order for the improvement to continue and be effective, it must become conscious.
Of course, at the beginning and for a long time it must be the teacher's duty to point out
the improvement and to help the child to think out the reasons for it, but if he is to learn
to study by himself the child must finally come to habits of self-criticism which will enable
him to recognize success or failure in his own work. In all this discussion of teaching children
to study it must be constantly borne in mind that it is a gradual process--and only very slowly
does the child become conscious of the technique. Which elements can be made conscious, how
much he can be left to himself, must depend on his maturity and previous training. In time,
however, he should be able to apply them all--for only by so doing will he become capable of
independent study.

When the study is primarily concerned with memory responses, all the elements which have just
been discussed in connection with habit apply, for, after all, memory is but mental habit.
There are other factors which enter into and which should be used in this type of study. First,
the child should realize the need for understanding the material that is to be learned, before
beginning to memorize it. He will then be taught to read the entire assignment through--look
up difficult words and references, master the content, whether prose or poetry, whether the
learning is to be verbatim or not, before doing anything further. Second, he will need to know
the value of the modified whole method of learning, as well as its difficulties. If in the
supervised periods of study and in class work, this method has been followed, it is very easy
to make him conscious of it and willing to adopt it when he comes to do independent study.
Third, he must be taught to distribute his time so that he does not devote too long a stretch
to one subject. The value of going over work in the morning, after having studied the night
or two nights before, should be emphasized. Also the value of beginning on assignments some
time ahead, even if there is not time to finish them. Fourth, the child should be taught not
to stop his work the minute he can give it perfectly. The need for overlearning, for permanent
retention, must be made clear. How much overlearning is necessary, each child should find out
for himself. Fifth, the value of outlining material as a means of aiding memory must be stressed.
Sixth, the child should be taught to search for associations, connections of all types, in
order to help himself remember facts. He might even be encouraged to make up some mnemonic
device as an aid if these measures fail. If instead of simply trying to hammer material in
by mere repetition children had been taught in their study to consciously make use of the other
elements in a good memory, much time would be saved. But the responsibility should rest finally
on the child to make use of these helps. The teacher must make him conscious of them, sometimes
from their value by experiment, and then teach him to use them himself.

Much less can be done as a matter of conscious technique when the occasion of study is to further
appreciation. A few suggestions might be offered. First, the child should be taught the value
of associating with those who do appreciate in the line in which he is striving for improvement.
He should be encouraged to consciously associate with them when opportunities for appreciation
come. Second, he should know the need for coming in contact with the objects of appreciation
if true feeling is to be developed. It is only by mingling with people, reading books, listening
to music, that appreciation in those fields can be developed. Third, the value of concrete
imagery and of connections with personal experience in arousing emotional tone should be emphasized.
The child might be encouraged to consciously call up images and make connections with his own
experience during study.

Study, when the object is to arrive at responses of judgment, is the type which has received
most attention. This type of study includes within itself several possibilities. Although judgment
is the only response that can solve the problem, still the problem may be one of giving the
best expression in art or music or drama. It may be the analysis of a course of action or of
a chemical compound. It may be the comparison of various opinions. It may be the arriving at
a new law or principle. It is to one of these types of thinking that the term "study" is usually
applied. Important as it is, the other three types already discussed cannot be neglected. If
children are taught to study in connection with the simpler situations provided by the first
two types, they will be the better prepared to deal with this complex type, for this highest
type of study involves habit formation often and memory work always.

In the type of study involving reasoning, because of its complexity, and because the individual
must work more independently, the child must learn the danger of following the first suggestion
which offers itself. He must learn to weigh each suggestion offered with reference to the goal
aimed at. Each step in the process must be tested and weighed in this manner. To go blindly
ahead, following out a line of suggestions until the end is reached, which is then found to
be the wrong one, wastes much time and is extremely discouraging. No suggestion of the way
to adapt means to end should be accepted without careful criticism. The pupil should gradually
be made conscious of the technique of reasoning, analysis, comparison, and abstraction. He
must know that the first thing to do is to analyze the problem and see just what it requires.
He must know that the abstraction depends upon the goal. The learner should be taught the sources
of some of the commonest mistakes in judgment. For instance, if he knows of the tendency to
respond in terms of analogy, and sees some of the errors to which accepting a minor likeness
between two situations as identity lead, he will be much more apt to avoid such mistakes than
would otherwise be true. If he knows how unsafe it is to form a judgment on limited data,--if
from his own and his classmates' thinking first, and later from the history of science, illustrations
are drawn of the disastrous effect of such thinking, he will see the value of seeking sources
of information and several points of view before forming his own judgment. In his study the
child should be taught not to be satisfied until he has tested the correctness of his judgment
by verifying the result. This is a very necessary part of studying. He should check up his
own thinking by finding out through appeal to facts if it is so; by putting the judgment into
execution; by consulting the opinion of others, and so on.

Study may be considered from the point of view of the type of material which is used in the
process. The student may be engaged on a problem which involves the use of apparatus or specimens
of various kinds, or he may need to consult people, or he may have to use books. So far as
the first type is concerned, it is obviously unwise to have a student at work on a problem
which involves the use of material, unless the technique of method of use is well known. Until
he can handle the material with some degree of facility it is waste of time for him to be struggling
with problems which necessitate such use. Such practice results in divided attention, poor
results from the study, and often bad habits in technique as well. Gaining the technique must
be in itself a problem for separate study.

Children should be taught to ask questions which bear directly on the point they wish to know.
If they in working out some problem are dependent on getting some information from the janitor,
or the postman, or a mason, they must be able to ask questions which will bring them what they
want to know. Much practice in framing questions, having them criticized, having them answered
just as they are asked, is necessary. Children should be aware of the question as a tool in
their study and therefore they must know how to handle it. In connection with this second type
of material, the problem of the best source of information will arise. Children must then be
made conscious of the relative values of various persons as sources of a particular piece of
information. Training in choice of the source of information is very important both when that
source is people and also when it is books.

Teaching children to use books in their study is one of the big tasks of the teacher. They
must learn that books are written in answer to questions. In order to thoroughly understand
a book, students must seek to frame the questions which it answers. They must also know how
to use books to answer their own questions. This means they must know how to turn from part
to part, gleaning here or there what they need. It means training in the ability to skim, omitting
unessentials and picking out essentials. It means the ability to recognize major points, minor
points, and illustrative material. Children must be taught to use the table of contents, the
index, and paragraph headings. They must, in their search for fuller information or criticism,
be able to interpret different authors, use different language, and attack from different angles,
even when treating the same object. Children must in their studying be taught to use books
as a means to an end--not an infallible means, but one which needs continual criticism, modification,
and amplification.

Study may be supervised study, or unsupervised study. To some people the requirements in learning
to study may seem too difficult to be possible, but it should be remembered that the process
is gradual--that one by one these elements in study are taught to the children in their supervised
study periods. These periods should begin in the primary grades, and require from the teacher
quite as much preparation as any other period. Many teachers have taught subjects, but not
how to study subjects. The latter is the more important. The matter of distributed learning
periods, of search for motive, of asking questions, of criticizing achievement, of use of books;
each element is a topic for class discussion before it is accepted as an element in study.
Even after it is accepted, it may be raised by some child as a source of particular difficulty
and fresh suggestions added. Very often with little children it is necessary for the teacher
to study the lesson with them. Teachers need much more practice in doing this, for one of the
best ways to teach a child to study is to study with him. Not to tell him, and do the work
for him, but to really study with him. Later on the supervised study period is one in which
each child is silently engaged upon his own work and the teacher passes from one to the other.
In order to do this well, the teacher needs to be able to do two things. First, to find out
when the child is in difficulty and to locate it, and second, to help him over the trouble
without giving too much assistance. Adequate questioning is needed in both cases. It is probably
true that comparatively little new work should be given for unsupervised study. There is too
much danger of error as well as lack of interest unless a start is given under supervision.

Studying, especially unsupervised, may be done in groups or individually. The former is a stepping-stone
to the latter. There is a greater chance for suggestions, for getting the problem worded, for
arousing interest and checking results, when a group of children are working together than
when a child is by himself. Two things must be looked after. First, that the children in the
group be taught not to waste time, and second, that the personnel of the group be right. It
is not very helpful if one child does all the work, nor if one is so far below the level of
the group that he is always tagging along behind. More opportunities for group study in the
grammar grades would be advantageous.

When it comes to individual study, the student then assumes all responsibility for his methods
of study. He should be taught the influence of physical conditions or mental reactions. He
will therefore be responsible for choosing in the home and in the school the best possible
conditions for his study. He will see to it that, in so far as possible, the air and light
are good, that there are no unnecessary distractions, and that he is as comfortable bodily
as can be. He must think not only in terms of the goal to be reached, but also with respect
to the methods to be employed. He should be asked by the teacher to report his methods of work
as well as his results.

QUESTIONS

1. Are children always primarily engaged in thinking when they study?

2. What type of study is involved in learning a multiplication table, a list of words in spelling,
a conjugation in French?

3. How would you teach a pupil to study his spelling lesson?

4. In what sense may one study in learning to write? In acquiring skill in swimming?

5. How would you teach your pupils to memorize?

6. Show how ability to study may be developed over a period of years in some subject with which
you are familiar. Reading? Geography? History? Latin translation?

7. Is the boy who reads over and over again his lesson necessarily studying?

8. Can one study a subject even though he may dislike it? Can one study without interest?

9. How can you teach children what is meant by concentration of attention?

10. How have you found it possible to develop a critical attitude toward their work upon the
part of children?

11. Of what factors in habit formation must children become conscious, if they are to study
to best advantage in this field?

12. How may we hope to have children learn to study in the fields requiring judgment? Why will
not consciousness of the technique of study make pupils equally able in studying?

13. What exercises can you conduct which will help children to learn how to use books?

14. How can a teacher study with a pupil and yet help him to develop independence in this field?

15. How may small groups of children work together advantageously in studying?

       *       *       *       *       *

XV. MEASURING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF CHILDREN

The success or failure of the teacher in applying the principles which have been discussed
in the preceding chapters is measured by the achievements of the children. Of course, it is
also possible that the validity of the principle which we have sought to establish may be called
in question by the same sort of measurement. We cannot be sure that our methods of work are
sound, or that we are making the best use of the time during which we work with children, except
as we discover the results of our instruction. Teaching is after all the adaptation of our
methods to the normal development of boys and girls, and their education can be measured only
in terms of the changes which we are able to bring about in knowledge, skill, appreciation,
reasoning, and the like.

Any attempt to measure the achievements of children should result in a discovery of the progress
which is being made from week to week, or month to month, or year to year. It would often be
found quite advantageous to note the deficiencies as well as the achievements at one period
as compared with the work done two or three months later. It will always be profitable to get
as clearly in mind as is possible the variation among members of the same class, and for those
who are interested in the supervision of schools, the variation from class to class, from school
to school, or from school system to school system. For the teacher a study of the variability
in achievement among the members of his own class ought to result in special attention to those
who need special help, especially a kind of teaching which will remove particular difficulties.
There should also be offered unusual opportunity and more than the ordinary demand be made
of those who show themselves to be more capable than the ordinary pupils.

The type of measurement which we wish to discuss is something more than the ordinary examination.
The difficulties with examinations, as we have commonly organized them, has* been their unreliability,
either from the standpoint of discovering to us the deficiencies of children, or their achievements.
Of ten problems in arithmetic or of twenty words in spelling given in the ordinary examination,
there are very great differences in difficulty. We do not have an adequate measure of the achievements
of children when we assign to each of the problems or words a value of ten or of five per cent
and proceed to determine the mark to be given on the examination paper. If we are wise in setting
our examinations, we usually give one problem or one word which we expect practically everybody
to be able to get right. On the other hand, if we really measure the achievements of children,
we must give some problems or some words that are too hard for any one to get right. Otherwise,
we do not know the limit or extent of ability possessed by the abler pupils. It is safe to
say that in many examinations one question may actually be four or five times as hard as some
other to which an equal value is assigned.

Another difficulty that we have to meet in the ordinary examination is the variability among
teachers in marking papers. We do not commonly assign the same values to the same result. Indeed,
if a set of papers is given to a group of capable teachers and marked as conscientiously as
may be by each of them, it is not uncommon to find a variation among the marks assigned to
the same paper which may be as great as twenty-five per cent of the highest mark given. Even
more interesting is the fact that upon re-marking these same papers individual teachers will
vary from their own first mark by almost as great an amount.

Still another difficulty with the ordinary examination is the tendency among teachers to derive
their standards of achievement from the group itself, rather than from any objective standard
by which all are measured. It is possible, for example, for children in English composition
to write very poorly for their grade and still to find the teacher giving relatively high marks
to those who happen to belong to the upper group in the class. As a result of the establishment
of such a standard, the teacher may not be conscious of the fact that children should be spurred
to greater effort, and that possibly he himself should seek to improve his methods of work.

Out of the situation described above, which includes on the one hand the necessity for measurement
as a means of testing the success of our theories and of our practice, and on the other hand
of having objective standards, has grown the movement for measurement by means of standard
tests and scales. A standard test which has been given to some thousands of children classified
by grades or by ages, if given to another group of children of the same grade or age group
will enable the teacher to compare the achievement of his children with that which is found
elsewhere. For example, the Courtis tests in arithmetic, which consist of series of problems
of equal difficulty in addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division may be used to discover
how far facility in these fields has been accomplished by children of any particular group
as compared with the achievements of children in other school systems throughout the country.
In these tests each of the problems is of equal difficulty. The measure is made by discovering
how many of these separate problems can be solved in a given number of minutes.[20]

A scale for measuring the achievements of children in the fundamental operations of addition,
subtraction, multiplication, and division has been derived by Dr. Clifford Woody,[21] which
differs from the Courtis tests in that it affords opportunity to discover what children can
achieve from the simplest problem in each of these fields to a problem which is in each case
approximately twice as difficult as the problems appearing on the Courtis tests. The great
value of this type of test is in discovering to teachers and to pupils, as well, their particular
difficulties. A pupil must be able to do fairly acceptable work in addition before he can solve
one problem on the Courtis tests. Considerable facility can be measured on the Woody tests
before an ability sufficient to be registered on the Courtis tests has been acquired. In his
monograph on the derivation of these tests Mr. Woody gives results which will enable the teacher
to compare his class with children already tested in other school systems. In the case of all
of these standard tests, school surveys and superintendents' reports are available which will
make it possible to institute comparisons among different classes and different school systems.
One form of the Woody tests is as follows:

       *       *       *       *       *

                            SERIES A
                          ADDITION SCALE
                         BY CLIFFORD WOODY

    Name......................
    When is your next birthday?......   How old will you be?.....
    Are you a boy or girl?.......    In what grade are you?......

    (1)  (3)  (5)   (7)     (9) (10) (11) (12) (13)  (15) (16)
     2   17   72   3+1=     20   21   32   43   23   100    9
     3    2   26            10   33   59    1   25    33   24
    --   --   --             2   35   17    2   16    45   12
                            30   --   --   13   --   201   15
    (2)  (4)  (6)   (8)     25             --         46   19
     2   53   60   2+5+1=   --                       ---   --
     4   45   37                          (14)
     3   --   --                         25+42=
    --

    (17)  (19)    (21)   (22)     (23)        (26)     (29)
    199  $ .75   $8.00    547   1/3+1/3=      121/2      4 3/4
    194   1.25    5.75    197                 621/2      2 1/4
    295    .49    2.33    685     (24)        121/2      5 1/4
    156  -----    4.16    678    4.0125       371/2      -----
    ---            .94    456    1.5907       ---
                  6.32    393    4.10                   (30)
    (18)   (20)  -----    525    8.673       (27)       2 1/2
    2563  $12.50          240    ------  1/8+1/4+1/2=   6 3/8
    1387   16.75          152                           3 3/4
    4954   15.75          ---                           -----
    2065  ------                    (25)             (28)
    ----                      3/8+5/8+7/8+1/8=      3/4+1/4=

      (31)        (33)      (34)     (35)       (36)      (37)
    113.46         .49   1/6+3/8=  2ft. 6in.  2yr. 5mo.  16 1/3
     49.6097       .28             3ft. 5in.  3yr. 6mo.  12 1/8
     19.9          .63             4ft. 9in.  4yr. 9mo.  21 1/2
      9.87         .95             ---------  5yr. 2mo.  32 3/4
       .0086      1.69                        6yr. 7mo. 1ft. 6in.
     3.49              49178036  5 3/4  12 5/8  2yd. 2ft. 3in.
    -----              --------  -----  ------  --------------

        (27)           (28)       (29)         (30)
    5yd. 1ft. 4in.    10-6.25    75 3/4    9.8063-9.019=
    2yd. 2ft. 8in.               52 1/4
    --------------               ------

        (31)            (32)           (33)      (34)      (35)
    7.3-3.00081=   1912 6mo.  8da.  5/12-2/10=  6 1/8  3 7/8-1 5/8=
                   1910 7mo. 15da. 8 oz.  8)5856               68)2108

       (18)      (19)         (20)      (21)      (22)
         248 ÷ 7 =               
    13)65065               2.1)25.2   25)9750   2)13.50

      (23)         (24)          (25)           (26)

    23)469     75)2250300     2400)504000     12)2.76

        (27)           (28)        (29)         (30)
    7/8 of 624 =          3 1/2 ÷ 9 =    3/4 ÷ 5 =
                   .003).0936

       (31)                 (32)                (33)
    5/4 ÷ 3/5 =        9 5/8 ÷ 3 3/4 =          
                                              52)3756

         (34)                (35)               (36)
    62.50 ÷ 1 1/4 =                  
                          531)37722       9)69 lbs. 9 oz. 5in.  21/4 × 41/2 × 11/2 =  .0963 1/8  8ft. 91/2in.
     25      5                        .084         9
    ----  ---------                  ---------  ----------

       *       *       *       *       *

A series of problems in reasoning in arithmetic which were given in twenty-six school systems
by Dr. C.W. Stone furnish a valuable test in this field, as well as an opportunity for comparison
with other schools in which these problems have been used.[22] A list of problems follows.

     Solve as many of the following problems as you have time for;
     work them in order as numbered:

     1. If you buy 2 tablets at 7 cents each and a book for 65
     cents, how much change should you receive from a two-dollar
     bill?

     2. John sold 4 Saturday Evening Posts at 5 cents each. He kept
     1/2 the money and with the other 1/2 he bought Sunday papers
     at 2 cents each. How many did he buy?

     3. If James had 4 times as much money as George, he would have
     $16. How much money has George?

     4. How many pencils can you buy for 50 cents at the rate of 2
     for 5 cents?

     5. The uniforms for a baseball nine cost $2.50 each. The shoes
     cost $2 a pair. What was the total cost of uniforms and shoes
     for the nine?

     6. In the schools of a certain city there are 2200 pupils; 1/2
     are in the primary grades, 1/4 in the grammar grades, 1/8 in
     the High School, and the rest in the night school. How many
     pupils are there in the night school?

     7. If 3-1/2 tons of coal cost $21, what will 5-1/2 tons cost?

     8. A news dealer bought some magazines for $1. He sold them
     for $1.20, gaining 5 cents on each magazine. How many
     magazines were there?

     9. A girl spent 1/8 of her money for car fare, and three times
     as much for clothes. Half of what she had left was 80 cents.
     How much money did she have at first?

     10. Two girls receive $2.10 for making buttonholes. One makes
     42, the other 28. How shall they divide the money?

     11. Mr. Brown paid one third of the cost of a building; Mr.
     Johnson paid 1/2 the cost. Mr. Johnson received $500 more
     annual rent than Mr. Brown. How much did each receive?

     12. A freight train left Albany for New York at 6 o'clock. An
     express left on the same track at 8 o'clock. It went at the
     rate of 40 miles an hour. At what time of day will it overtake
     the freight train if the freight train stops after it has gone
     56 miles?

A different type of measurement is accomplished by using Thorndike's scale for measuring the
quality of handwriting.[23] A typical distribution of the scores which children receive on
the handwriting scale reads as follows: For a fourth grade one child writes quality four, two
quality six, five quality seven, seven quality eight, eight quality nine, three quality ten,
two quality eleven, two quality twelve, one quality thirteen, one quality fourteen. In a table
the distributions of scores in penmanship for a large number of papers selected at random show
the following results:

    ============================================================
                |                 GRADES
    SCORES      +------+------+------+------+------+------+-----
                |   2  |   3  |   4  |   5  |   6  |   7  |   8
    ------------+-------------+------+------+------+------+-----
    0           |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --
    1           |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --
    2           |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --
    3           |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --
    4           |   5  |   2  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --
    5           |  22  |   2  |   3  |   3  |  --  |   1  |  --
    6           |  21  |  21  |  16  |   3  |   2  |  --  |   1
    7           |  29  |  44  |  24  |  12  |   1  |   3  |   3
    8           |  28  |  86  |  42  |  56  |  20  |  15  |   7
    9           |  42  |  41  |  55  |  61  |  25  |  29  |  11
    10          |   7  |   8  |  20  |  16  |   9  |  11  |   1
    11          |  29  |  13  |  21  |  17  |  32  |  25  |  23
    12          |   5  |   2  |  15  |  15  |  44  |  12  |  21
    13          |   7  |   2  |   2  |   6  |  17  |  19  |   9
    14          |  --  |  --  |   3  |   4  |  10  |  16  |   9
    15          |  --  |  --  |   1  |  --  |   9  |   6  |  15
    16          |   1  |  --  |  --  |   1  |  10  |  12  |  17
    17          |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |   6  |   2  |   3
    18          |  --  |  --  |  --  |  --  |   3  |   1  |  --
    ------------+------+------+------+------+------+------+-----
    Total papers|  196 | 221  | 202 |  194  | 188  | 152  | 124
    ============================================================

       *       *       *       *       *

A SCALE FOR HANDWRITING OF CHILDREN IN GRADES 5-8

The Unit of the Scale Equals approximately One-Tenth of the Difference between the Best and
Worst of the Formal Writings of 1,000 Children in Grades 5-8. The Differences 16-15, 15-14,
14-13, etc., represent Equal Fractions of the Combined Mental Scale of Merit of from 23-55
Competent Judges.

Sample 140, representing zero merit in handwriting. Zero merit is arbitrarily defined as that
of a handwriting, recognizable as such, but yet not legible at all and possessed of no beauty.

Quality 4.

Quality 5.

Quality 6.

Quality 7.

Quality 8.

Quality 9.

Quality 10.

Quality 11.

Quality 12.

Quality 13.

Quality 14.

Quality 15.

Quality 16.

Quality 17.

Quality 18.

       *       *       *       *       *

This table reads as follows: Quality four was written by five children in the second grade
and two in the third grade, quality five was written by twenty-two children in the second grade,
two children in the third grade, three in the fourth grade, three in the fifth grade, none
in the sixth grade, one in the seventh grade, and none in the eighth grade, and so on for the
whole table.[24]

A scale for measuring ability in spelling prepared by Dr. Leonard P. Ayres arranges the thousand
words most commonly used in the order of their difficulty. From this sheet it is possible to
discover words of approximately the same difficulty for each grade. A test could therefore
be derived from this scale for each of the grades with the expectation that they would all
do about equally well. There would also be the possibility of determining how well the spelling
was done in the particular school system in which these words were given as compared with the
ability of children as measured by an aggregate of more than a million spellings by seventy
thousand children in eighty-four cities throughout the United States. Such a list could be
taken from the scale for the second grade, which includes words which have proved to be of
a difficulty represented by a seventy-three percent correct spelling for the class. Such a
list might be composed of the following words: north, white, spent, block, river, winter, Sunday,
letter, thank, and best. A similar list could be taken from the scale for a third, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth grade. For example, the words which have approximately the
same difficulty,--seventy-three percent to be spelled correctly by the class for the sixth
grade,--read as follows: often, stopped, motion, theater, improvement, century, total, mansion,
arrive, supply. The great value of such a measuring scale, including as it does the thousand
words most commonly used, is to be found not only in the opportunity for comparing the achievements
of children in one class or school with another, but also in the focusing of the attention
of teachers and pupils upon the words most commonly used.[25]

One of the fields in which there is greatest need for measurement is English composition. Teachers
have too often thought of English composition as consisting of spelling, punctuation, capitalization,
and the like, and have ignored the quality of the composition itself in their attention to
these formal elements. A scale for measuring English composition derived by Dr. M.B. Hillegas,[26]
consisting of sample compositions of values ranging from 0 to 9.37, will enable the teacher
to tell just how many pupils in the class are writing each different quality of composition.
The use of such a scale will tend to make both teacher and pupil critical of the work which
is being done not only with respect to the formal elements, but also with respect to the style
or adequacy of the expression of the ideas which the writer seeks to convey. Probably in no
other field has the teacher been so apt to derive his standard from the performance of the
class as in work in composition. Even though some teachers find it difficult to evaluate the
work of their pupils in terms of the sample compositions given on the scale, much good must
come, it seems to the writer, from the attempt to grade compositions by such an objective scale.
If such measurements are made two or three times during the year, the performance of individual
pupils and of the class will be indicated much more certainly than is the case when teachers
feel that they are getting along well without any definite assurance of the amount of their
improvement.

