Contents:
   Introduction
   The Lady of the Fountain
   Peredur the Son of Evrawc
   Geraint the son of Erbin
   Kilhwch and Olwen
   The dream of Rhonabwy
   Pwyll Prince of Dyved
   Branwen the daughter of Llyr
   Manawyddan the son of Llyr
   Math the son of Mathonwy
   The dream of Maxen Wledig
   The story of Lludd and Llevelys
   Taliesin

INTRODUCTION

Whilst engaged on the Translations contained in these volumes, and on the Notes appended to
the various Tales, I have found myself led unavoidably into a much more extensive course of
reading than I had originally contemplated, and one which in great measure bears directly upon
the earlier Mediaeval Romance.

Before commencing these labours, I was aware, generally, that there existed a connexion between
the Welsh Mabinogion and the Romance of the Continent; but as I advanced, I became better acquainted
with the closeness and extent of that connexion, its history, and the proofs by which it is
supported.

At the same time, indeed, I became aware, and still strongly feel, that it is one thing to
collect facts, and quite another to classify and draw from them their legitimate conclusions;
and though I am loth that what has been collected with some pains, should be entirely thrown
away, it is unwillingly, and with diffidence, that I trespass beyond the acknowledged province
of a translator.

In the twelfth and thirteenth centuries there arose into general notoriety in Europe, a body
of "Romance," which in various forms retained its popularity till the Reformation.  In it the
plot, the incidents, the characters, were almost wholly those of Chivalry, that bond which
united the warriors of France, Spain, and Italy, with those of pure Teutonic descent, and embraced
more or less firmly all the nations of Europe, excepting only the Slavonic races, not yet risen
to power, and the Celts, who had fallen from it.  It is not difficult to account for this latter
omission.  The Celts, driven from the plains into the mountains and islands, preserved their
liberty, and hated their oppressors with fierce, and not causeless, hatred.  A proud and free
people, isolated both in country and language, were not likely to adopt customs which implied
brotherhood with their foes.

Such being the case, it is remarkable that when the chief romances are examined, the name of
many of the heroes and their scenes of action are found to be Celtic, and those of persons
and places famous in the traditions of Wales and Brittany.  Of this the romances of Ywaine
and Gawaine, Sir Perceval de Galles, Eric and Enide, Mort d'Arthur, Sir Lancelot, Sir Tristan,
the Graal, &c., may be cited as examples.  In some cases a tendency to triads, and other matters
of internal evidence, point in the same direction.

It may seem difficult to account for this.  Although the ancient dominion of the Celts over
Europe is not without enduring evidence in the names of the mountains and streams, the great
features of a country, yet the loss of their prior language by the great mass of the Celtic
nations in Southern Europe (if indeed their successors in territory be at all of their blood),
prevents us from clearly seeing, and makes us wonder, how stories, originally embodied in the
Celtic dialects of Great Britain and France, could so influence the literature of nations to
whom the Celtic languages were utterly unknown.  Whence then came these internal marks, and
these proper names of persons and places, the features of a story usually of earliest date
and least likely to change?

These romances were found in England, France, Germany, Norway, Sweden, and even Iceland, as
early as the beginning of the thirteenth and end of the twelfth century.  The Germans, who
propagated them through the nations of the North, derived them certainly from France. Robert
Wace published his Anglo-Norman Romance of the Brut d'Angleterre about 1155.  Sir Tristan was
written in French prose in 1170; and The Chevalier au Lion, Chevalier de l'Epee, and Sir Lancelot
du Lac, in metrical French, by Chrestien de Troyes, before 1200.

From these facts it is to be argued that the further back these romances are traced, the more
clearly does it appear that they spread over the Continent from the North-west of France. 
The older versions, it may be remarked, are far more simple than the later corruptions.  In
them there is less allusion to the habits and usages of Chivalry, and the Welsh names and elements
stand out in stronger relief.  It is a great step to be able to trace the stocks of these romances
back to Wace, or to his country and age.  For Wace's work was not original.  He himself, a
native of Jersey, appears to have derived much of it from the "Historia Britonum" of Gruffydd
ab Arthur, commonly known as "Geoffrey of Monmouth," born 1128, who himself professes to have
translated from a British original.  It is, however, very possible that Wace may have had access,
like Geoffrey, to independent sources of information.

To the claims set up on behalf of Wace and Geoffrey, to be regarded as the channels by which
the Cymric tales passed into the Continental Romance, may be added those of a third almost
contemporary author. Layamon, a Saxon priest, dwelling, about 1200, upon the banks of the upper
Severn, acknowledges for the source of his British history, the English Bede, the Latin Albin,
and the French Wace.  The last-named however is by very much his chief, and, for Welsh matters,
his only avowed authority.  His book, nevertheless, contains a number of names and stories
relating to Wales, of which no traces appear in Wace, or indeed in Geoffrey, but which he was
certainly in a very favourable position to obtain for himself.  Layamon, therefore, not only
confirms Geoffrey in some points, but it is clear, that, professing to follow Wace, he had
independent access to the great body of Welsh literature then current.  Sir F. Madden has put
this matter very clearly, in his recent edition of Layamon.  The Abbe de la Rue, also, was
of opinion that Gaimar, an Anglo-Norman, in the reign of Stephen, usually regarded as a translator
of Geoffrey of Monmouth, had access to a Welsh independent authority.

In addition to these, is to be mentioned the English version of Sir Tristrem, which Sir Walter
Scott considered to be derived from a distinct Celtic source, and not, like the later Amadis,
Palmerin, and Lord Berners's Canon of Romance, imported into English literature by translation
from the French.  For the Auntours of Arthur, recently published by the Camden Society, their
Editor, Mr. Robson, seems to hint at a similar claim.

Here then are various known channels, by which portions of Welsh and Armoric fiction crossed
the Celtic border, and gave rise to the more ornate, and widely-spread romance of the Age of
Chivalry.  It is not improbable that there may have existed many others.  It appears then that
a large portion of the stocks of Mediaeval Romance proceeded from Wales.  We have next to see
in what condition they are still found in that country.

That Wales possessed an ancient literature, containing various lyric compositions, and certain
triads, in which are arranged historical facts or moral aphorisms, has been shown by Sharon
Turner, who has established the high antiquity of many of these compositions.

The more strictly Romantic Literature of Wales has been less fortunate, though not less deserving
of critical attention. This contains, besides poems, the prose romances known as Mabinogion.
The Black Book of Caermarthen, preserved at Hengwrt, and considered not to be of later date
than the twelfth century, is said to contain poems only. {1}

The Mabinogion, however, though thus early recorded in the Welsh tongue, are in their existing
form by no means wholly Welsh.  They are of two tolerably distinct classes.  Of these, the
older contains few allusions to Norman customs, manners, arts, arms, and luxuries. The other,
and less ancient, are full of such allusions, and of ecclesiastical terms.  Both classes, no
doubt, are equally of Welsh root, but the former are not more overlaid or corrupted, than might
have been expected, from the communication that so early took place between the Normans and
the Welsh; whereas the latter probably migrated from Wales, and were brought back and re-translated
after an absence of centuries, with a load of Norman additions.  Kilhwch and Olwen, and the
dream of Rhonabwy, may be cited as examples of the older and purer class; the Lady of the Fountain,
Peredur, and Geraint ab Erbin, of the later, or decorated.

Besides these, indeed, there are a few tales, as Amlyn and Amic, Sir Bevis of Hamtoun, the
Seven Wise Masters, and the story of Charlemagne, so obviously of foreign extraction, and of
late introduction into Wales, not presenting even a Welsh name, or allusion, and of such very
slender intrinsic merit, that although comprised in the Llyvr Coch, they have not a shadow
of claim to form part of the Canon of Welsh Romance.  Therefore, although I have translated
and examined them, I have given them no place in these volumes.

There is one argument in favour of the high antiquity in Wales of many of the Mabinogion, which
deserves to be mentioned here.  This argument is founded on the topography of the country.
It is found that Saxon names of places are very frequently definitions of the nature of the
locality to which they are attached, as Clifton, Deepden, Bridge-ford, Thorpe, Ham, Wick, and
the like; whereas those of Wales are more frequently commemorative of some event, real or supposed,
said to have happened on or near the spot, or bearing allusion to some person renowned in the
story of the country or district.  Such are "Llyn y Morwynion," the Lake of the Maidens; "Rhyd
y Bedd," the Ford of the Grave; "Bryn Cyfergyr," the Hill of Assault; and so on.  But as these
names could not have preceded the events to which they refer, the events themselves must be
not unfrequently as old as the early settlement in the country.  And as some of these events
and fictions are the subjects of, and are explained by, existing Welsh legends, it follows
that the legends must be, in some shape or other, of very remote antiquity.  It will be observed
that this argument supports REMOTE antiquity only for such legends as are connected with the
greater topographical features, as mountains, lakes, rivers, seas, which must have been named
at an early period in the inhabitation of the country by man. But there exist, also, legends
connected with the lesser features, as pools, hills, detached rocks, caves, fords, and the
like, places not necessarily named by the earlier settlers, but the names of which are, nevertheless,
probably very old, since the words of which they are composed are in many cases not retained
in the colloquial tongue, in which they must once have been included, and are in some instances
lost from the language altogether, so much so as to be only partially explicable even by scholars.
The argument applies likewise, in their degree, to camps, barrows, and other artificial earth-works.

Conclusions thus drawn, when established, rest upon a very firm basis.  They depend upon the
number and appositeness of the facts, and it would be very interesting to pursue this branch
of evidence in detail.  In following up this idea, the names to be sought for might thus be
classed:-

I.  Names of the great features, involving proper names and actions.

Cadair Idris and Cadair Arthur both involve more than a mere name. Idris and Arthur must have
been invested with heroic qualifications to have been placed in such "seats."

II.  Names of lesser features, as "Bryn y Saeth," Hill of the Dart; "Llyn Llyngclys," Lake
of the Engulphed Court; "Ceven y Bedd," the Ridge of the Grave; "Rhyd y Saeson," the Saxons' Ford.

III.  Names of mixed natural and artificial objects, as "Coeten Arthur," Arthur's Coit; "Cerrig
y Drudion," the Crag of the Heroes; which involve actions.  And such as embody proper names
only, as "Cerrig Howell," the Crag of Howell; "Caer Arianrod," the Camp of Arianrod; "Bron
Goronwy," the Breast (of the Hill) of Goronwy; "Castell mab Wynion," the Castle of the son
of Wynion; "Nant Gwrtheyrn," the Rill of Vortigern.

The selection of names would demand much care and discretion.  The translations should be indisputable,
and, where known, the connexion of a name with a legend should be noted.  Such a name as "Mochdrev,"
Swine-town, would be valueless unless accompanied by a legend.

It is always valuable to find a place or work called after an individual, because it may help
to support some tradition of his existence or his actions.  But it is requisite that care be
taken not to push the etymological dissection too far.  Thus, "Caer Arianrod" should be taken
simply as the "Camp of Arianrod," and not rendered the "Camp of the silver circle," because
the latter, though it might possibly have something to do with the reason for which the name
was borne by Arianrod herself, had clearly no reference to its application to her camp.

It appears to me, then, looking back upon what has been advanced:-

I.  That we have throughout Europe, at an early period, a great body of literature, known as
Mediaeval Romance, which, amidst much that is wholly of Teutonic origin and character, includes
certain well-marked traces of an older Celtic nucleus.

II.  Proceeding backwards in time, we find these romances, their ornaments falling away at
each step, existing towards the twelfth century, of simpler structure, and with less encumbered
Celtic features, in the works of Wace, and other Bards of the Langue d'Oil.

III.  We find that Geoffrey of Monmouth, Layamon, and other early British and Anglo-Saxon historians,
and minstrels, on the one hand, transmitted to Europe the rudiments of its after romance, much
of which, on the other hand, they drew from Wales.

IV.  Crossing into Wales we find, in the Mabinogion, the evident counterpart of the Celtic
portion of the continental romance, mixed up, indeed, with various reflex additions from beyond
the border, but still containing ample internal evidence of a Welsh original.

V.  Looking at the connexion between divers of the more ancient Mabinogion, and the topographical
nomenclature of part of the country, we find evidence of the great, though indefinite, antiquity
of these tales, and of an origin, which, if not indigenous, is certainly derived from no European
nation.

It was with a general belief in some of these conclusions, that I commenced my labours, and
I end them with my impressions strongly confirmed.  The subject is one not unworthy of the
talents of a Llwyd or a Prichard.  It might, I think, be shown, by pursuing the inquiry, that
the Cymric nation is not only, as Dr. Prichard has proved it to be, an early offshoot of the
Indo-European family, and a people of unmixed descent, but that when driven out of their conquests
by the later nations, the names and exploits of their heroes, and the compositions of their
bards, spread far and wide among the invaders, and affected intimately their tastes and literature
for many centuries, and that it has strong claims to be considered the cradle of European Romance.

C. E. G. DOWLAIS, August 29th, 1848.  And if it should be said that there was a porter at Arthur's
palace, there was none.  Glewlwyd Gavaelvawr was there, acting as porter, to welcome guests
and strangers, and to receive them with honour, and to inform them of the manners and customs
of the Court; and to direct those who came to the Hall or to the presence-chamber, and those
who came to take up their lodging.  And the King went to sleep.  And Kynon the son of Clydno
asked Kai for that which Arthur had promised them.  "I, too, will have the good tale which
he promised to me," said Kai. "Nay," answered Kynon, "fairer will it be for thee to fulfill
Arthur's behest, in the first place, and then we will tell thee the best tale that we know."
"Now," said Kai, "it is time for you to give me my story."  "Kynon," said Owain, "do thou pay
to Kai the tale that is his due."  "Truly," said Kynon, "thou are older, and art a better teller
of tales, and hast seen more marvellous things than I; do thou therefore pay Kai his tale."
"Begin thyself," quoth Owain, "with the best that thou knowest."  I said I was glad to find
that there was some one who would discourse with me, and that it was not considered so great
a crime at that Court for people to hold converse together.  He is not smaller in size than
two of the men of this world. He has but one foot; and one eye in the middle of his forehead.
And he has a club of iron, and it is certain that there are no two men in the world who would
not find their burden in that club.  And there was I three times more astonished at the number
of wild animals that I beheld, than the man had said I should be.  And the black man was there,
sitting upon the top of the mound.  Huge of stature as the man had told me that he was, I found
him to exceed by far the description he had given me of him.  As for the iron club which the
man had told me was a burden for two men, I am certain, Kai, that it would be a heavy weight
for four warriors to lift; and this was in the black man's hand.  And he only spoke to me in
answer to my questions.  Then I asked him what power he held over those animals. 'I will show
thee, little man,' said he.  And he took his club in his hand, and with it he struck a stag
a great blow so that he brayed vehemently, and at his braying the animals came together, as
numerous as the stars in the sky, so that it was difficult for me to find room in the glade
to stand among them.  There were serpents, and dragons, and divers sorts of animals.  And he
looked at them, and bade them go and feed; and they bowed their heads, and did him homage as
vassals to their lord.

"Then the black man said to me, 'Seest thou now, little man, what power I hold over these animals?'
Then I inquired of him the way, and he became very rough in his manner to me; however, he asked
me whither I would go?  And when I told him who I was and what I sought, he directed me.  With
the thunder there will come a shower so severe that it will be scarce possible for thee to
endure it and live.  And the shower will be of hailstones; and after the shower, the weather
will become fair, but every leaf that was upon the tree will have been carried away by the
shower.  Then a flight of birds will come and alight upon the tree; and in thine own country
thou didst never hear a strain so sweet as that which they will sing.  If thou fleest from
him he will overtake thee, and if thou abidest there, as sure as thou art a mounted knight,
he will leave thee on foot.  For not one of those hailstones would be stopped, either by the
flesh or by the skin, until it had reached the bone.  And thus I withstood the shower. When
I looked on the tree there was not a single leaf upon it, and then the sky became clear, and
with that, behold the birds lighted upon the tree, and sang.  And truly, Kai, I never heard
any melody equal to that, either before or since.

"Now," quoth Owain, "would it not be well to go and endeavour to discover that place?"

"By the hand of my friend," said Kai, "often dost thou utter that with thy tongue which thou
wouldst not make good with thy deeds."  And their beauty and their comeliness seemed to Owain
far greater than Kynon had represented to him.  And when Owain looked at the tree, there was
not one leaf upon it.  "Truly," said the damsel, "it is very sad that thou canst not be released,
and every woman ought to succour thee, for I never saw one more faithful in the service of
ladies than thou.  As a friend thou art the most sincere, and as a lover the most devoted.
Nor did he ever see so excellent a display of meat and drink, as there.  And there was not
one vessel from which he was served, that was not of gold or of silver.  And Owain ate and
drank, until late in the afternoon, when lo, they heard a mighty clamour in the Castle; and
Owain asked the maiden what that outcry was.  "They are administering extreme unction," said
she, "to the Nobleman who owns the Castle."  And Owain went to sleep.

The couch which the maiden had prepared for him was meet for Arthur himself; it was of scarlet,
and fur, and satin, and sendal, and fine linen.  In the middle of the night they heard a woful
outcry.  "What outcry again is this?" said Owain.  "The Nobleman who owned the Castle is now
dead," said the maiden.  And a little after daybreak, they heard an exceeding loud clamour
and wailing.  And it seemed to Owain that the sky resounded with the vehemence of their cries,
and with the noise of the trumpets, and with the singing of the ecclesiastics.

And with that the maid arose, and kindled a fire, and filled a pot with water, and placed it
to warm; and she brought a towel of white linen, and placed it around Owain's neck; and she
took a goblet of ivory, and a silver basin, and filled them with warm water, wherewith she
washed Owain's head.  Then she opened a wooden casket, and drew forth a razor, whose haft was
of ivory, and upon which were two rivets of gold.  And she shaved his beard, and she dried
his head, and his throat, with the towel.  Then she rose up from before Owain, and brought
him to eat.  And truly Owain had never so good a meal, nor was he ever so well served.

When he had finished his repast, the maiden arranged his couch. "Come here," said she, "and
sleep, and I will go and woo for thee."  That was wrong in thee."  "I will do so," quoth she.

It befell that as Gwalchmai went forth one day with King Arthur, he perceived him to be very
sad and sorrowful.

Then Arthur and the men of his household prepared to go and seek Owain, and their number was
three thousand, besides their attendants.  And such a thunderstorm they had never known before,
and many of the attendants who were in Arthur's train were killed by the shower.  And Kai came
to Arthur, and spoke to him:  "My lord," said he, "though I was overthrown yesterday, if it
seem good to thee, I would gladly meet the Knight again to-day."  "Thou mayst do so," said
Arthur.  And Kai went towards the Knight.  And on the spot he overthrew Kai, and struck him
with the head of his lance in the forehead, so that it broke his helmet and the head-piece,
and pierced the skin and the flesh, the breadth of the spear-head, even to the bone.  And Kai
returned to his companions.

After this, all the household of Arthur went forth, one after the other, to combat the Knight,
until there was not one that was not overthrown by him, except Arthur and Gwalchmai.  And Arthur
armed himself to encounter the Knight.  Then Owain said, "My lord Gwalchmai, I did not know
thee for my cousin, owing to the robe of honour that enveloped thee; take my sword and my arms."

One day the Countess and her maidens went forth to walk by a lake, that was in the middle of
the park.  And they saw the form of a man. And they were terrified.  Nevertheless they went
near him, and touched him, and looked at him.  And they saw that there was life in him, though
he was exhausted by the heat of the sun.  And he crept forward till he was able to draw the
garments to him from off the saddle.  And he clothed himself, and with difficulty mounted the
horse.  Then the damsel discovered herself to him, and saluted him.  And he was rejoiced when
he saw her, and inquired of her, what land and what territory that was.  "Truly," said the
maiden, "a widowed Countess owns yonder Castle; at the death of her husband, he left her two
Earldoms, but at this day she has but this one dwelling that has not been wrested from her
by a young Earl, who is her neighbour, because she refused to become his wife."  "That is pity,"
said Owain.  And he and the maiden proceeded to the Castle; and he alighted there, and the
maiden conducted him to a pleasant chamber, and kindled a fire and left him.

And the maiden came to the Countess, and gave the flask into her hand.  "Ha! maiden," said
the Countess, "where is all the balsam?" "Have I not used it all?" said she.  "Oh, maiden,"
said the Countess, "I cannot easily forgive thee this; it is sad for me to have wasted seven-score
pounds' worth of precious ointment upon a stranger whom I know not.  However, maiden, wait
thou upon him, until he is quite recovered."

And the maiden did so, and furnished him with meat and drink, and fire, and lodging, and medicaments,
until he was well again.  And in three months he was restored to his former guise, and became
even more comely than he had ever been before.

One day Owain heard a great tumult, and a sound of arms in the Castle, and he inquired of the
maiden the cause thereof.  "The Earl," said she, "whom I mentioned to thee, has come before
the Castle, with a numerous army, to subdue the Countess."  And Owain inquired of her whether
the Countess had a horse and arms in her possession.  "She has the best in the world," said
the maiden.  "Wilt thou go and request the loan of a horse and arms for me," said Owain, "that
I may go and look at this army?"  "I will," said the maiden.

And she came to the Countess, and told her what Owain had said.  And the Countess laughed.
"Truly," said she, "I will even give him a horse and arms for ever; such a horse and such arms
had he never yet, and I am glad that they should be taken by him to-day, lest my enemies should
have them against my will to-morrow.  Yet I know not what he would do with them."  And Owain
armed himself, and mounted the horse, and went forth, attended by two pages completely equipped,
with horses and arms.  And when they came near to the Earl's army, they could see neither its
extent nor its extremity.  And Owain asked the pages in which troop the Earl was.  "In yonder
troop," said they, "in which are four yellow standards.  Two of them are before, and two behind
him."  "Now," said Owain, "do you return and await me near the portal of the Castle." So they
returned, and Owain pressed forward until he met the Earl. And Owain drew him completely out
of his saddle, and turned his horse's head towards the Castle, and though it was with difficulty,
he brought the Earl to the portal, where the pages awaited him.  And in they came.  And Owain
presented the Earl as a gift to the Countess.  And said to her, "Behold a requital to thee
for thy blessed balsam."

The army encamped around the Castle.  And the Earl restored to the Countess the two Earldoms
he had taken from her, as a ransom for his life; and for his freedom he gave her the half of
his own dominions, and all his gold, and his silver, and his jewels, besides hostages.

And Owain took his departure.  And the Countess and all her subjects besought him to remain,
but Owain chose rather to wander through distant lands and deserts.  The rest of the buck he
gave to the lion to devour.  While he was doing this, he heard a deep sigh near him, and a
second, and a third.  And Owain called out to know whether the sigh he heard proceeded from
a mortal; and he received answer that it did.  "Who art thou?" said Owain.  "Truly," said the
voice, "I am Luned, the handmaiden of the Countess of the Fountain." "And what dost thou here?"
said Owain.  "I am imprisoned," said she, "on account of the knight who came from Arthur's
Court, and married the Countess.  And he stayed a short time with her, but he afterwards departed
for the Court of Arthur, and has not returned since.  And he was the friend I loved best in
the world.  And two of the pages in the Countess's chamber traduced him, and called him a deceiver.
And I told them that they two were not a match for him alone.  And the next morning Owain inquired
of the damsel, if there was any place where he could get food and entertainment for that night.
"There is, Lord," said she; "cross over yonder, and go along the side of the river, and in
a short time thou wilt see a great Castle, in which are many towers, and the Earl who owns
that Castle is the most hospitable man in the world.  There thou mayst spend the night."

Never did sentinel keep stricter watch over his lord, than the lion that night over Owain.

And Owain accoutred his horse, and passed across by the ford, and came in sight of the Castle.
And he entered it, and was honourably received.  And his horse was well cared for, and plenty
of fodder was placed before him.  Then the lion went and lay down in the horse's manger; so
that none of the people of the Castle dared to approach him.  The treatment which Owain met
with there was such as he had never known elsewhere, for every one was as sorrowful as though
death had been upon him.  And they went to meat; and the Earl sat upon one side of Owain, and
on the other side his only daughter.  And Owain had never seen any more lovely than she.  Then
the lion came and placed himself between Owain's feet, and he fed him with every kind of food
that he took himself.  And he never saw anything equal to the sadness of the people.

In the middle of the repast the Earl began to bid Owain welcome. "Then," said Owain, "behold,
it is time for thee to be cheerful." "Heaven knows," said the Earl, "that it is not thy coming
that makes us sorrowful, but we have cause enough for sadness and care."  "What is that?" said
Owain.  "I have two sons," replied the Earl, "and yesterday they went to the mountains to hunt.
Now there is on the mountain a monster who kills men and devours them, and he seized my sons;
and to-morrow is the time he has fixed to be here, and he threatens that he will then slay
my sons before my eyes, unless I will deliver into his hands this my daughter.  He has the
form of a man, but in stature he is no less than a giant."

"Truly," said Owain, "that is lamentable.  And which wilt thou do?" "Heaven knows," said the
Earl, "it will be better that my sons should be slain against my will, than that I should voluntarily
give up my daughter to him to ill-treat and destroy."  Then they talked about other things,
and Owain stayed there that night.

The next morning they heard an exceeding great clamour, which was caused by the coming of the
giant with the two youths.  And the Earl was anxious both to protect his Castle and to release
his two sons. Then Owain put on his armour and went forth to encounter the giant, and the lion
followed him.  And when the giant saw that Owain was armed, he rushed towards him and attacked
him.  And the lion fought with the giant much more fiercely than Owain did.  "Truly," said
the giant, "I should find no difficulty in fighting with thee, were it not for the animal that
is with thee."  Upon that Owain took the lion back to the Castle and shut the gate upon him,
and then he returned to fight the giant, as before.  And the lion roared very loud, for he
heard that it went hard with Owain.  And he climbed up till he reached the top of the Earl's
hall, and thence he got to the top of the Castle, and he sprang down from the walls and went
and joined Owain.  And the lion gave the giant a stroke with his paw, which tore him from his
shoulder to his hip, and his heart was laid bare, and the giant fell down dead.  Then Owain
restored the two youths to their father.

The Earl besought Owain to remain with him, and he would not, but set forward towards the meadow
where Luned was.  And when he came there he saw a great fire kindled, and two youths with beautiful
curling auburn hair were leading the maiden to cast her into the fire.  "We will," said the
youths, "by him who made us."  And when he went thence he took the Countess with him to Arthur's
Court, and she was his wife as long as she lived.

And then he took the road that led to the Court of the savage black man, and Owain fought with
him, and the lion did not quit Owain until he had vanquished him.  And when he reached the
Court of the savage black man he entered the hall, and beheld four-and-twenty ladies, the fairest
that could be seen.  And the garments which they had on were not worth four-and twenty pence,
and they were as sorrowful as death. And Owain asked them the cause of their sadness.  And
they said, "We are the daughters of Earls, and we all came here with our husbands, whom we
dearly loved.  And we were received with honour and rejoicing.  And we were thrown into a state
of stupor, and while we were thus, the demon who owns this Castle slew all our husbands, and
took from us our horses, and our raiment, and our gold, and our silver; and the corpses of
our husbands are still in this house, and many others with them.  And this, Chieftain, is the
cause of our grief, and we are sorry that thou art come hither, lest harm should befall thee."

And Owain was grieved when he heard this.  And he went forth from the Castle, and he beheld
a knight approaching him, who saluted him in a friendly and cheerful manner, as if he had been
a brother.  And this was the savage black man.  "In very sooth," said Owain, "it is not to
seek thy friendship that I am here."  "In sooth," said he, "thou shalt not find it then." 
And with that they charged each other, and fought furiously.  And Owain overcame him, and bound
his hands behind his back.  Then the black savage besought Owain to spare his life, and spoke
thus:  "My lord Owain," said he, "it was foretold that thou shouldst come hither and vanquish
me, and thou hast done so.  I was a robber here, and my house was a house of spoil; but grant
me my life, and I will become the keeper of an Hospice, and I will maintain this house as an
Hospice for weak and for strong, as long as I live, for the good of thy soul."  And Owain accepted
this proposal of him, and remained there that night.

And the next day he took the four-and-twenty ladies, and their horses, and their raiment, and
what they possessed of goods and jewels, and proceeded with them to Arthur's Court.  And if
Arthur was rejoiced when he saw him, after he had lost him the first time, his joy was now
much greater.  And of those ladies, such as wished to remain in Arthur's Court remained there,
and such as wished to depart departed.

And thenceforward Owain dwelt at Arthur's Court greatly beloved, as the head of his household,
until he went away with his followers; and those were the army of three hundred ravens which
Kenverchyn had left him.  And wherever Owain went with these he was victorious.

And this is the tale of THE LADY OF THE FOUNTAIN.

PEREDUR THE SON OF EVRAWC

Earl Evrawc owned the Earldom of the North.  And he had seven sons. And Evrawc maintained himself
not so much by his own possessions as by attending tournaments, and wars, and combats.  And,
as it often befalls those who join in encounters and wars, he was slain, and six of his sons
likewise.  Now the name of his seventh son was Peredur, and he was the youngest of them.  And
he was not of an age to go to wars and encounters, otherwise he might have been slain as well
as his father and brothers.  His mother was a scheming and thoughtful woman, and she was very
solicitous concerning this her only son and his possessions.  So she took counsel with herself
to leave the inhabited country, and to flee to the deserts and unfrequented wildernesses. 
And she permitted none to bear her company thither but women and boys, and spiritless men,
who were both unaccustomed and unequal to war and fighting.  And none dared to bring either
horses or arms where her son was, lest he should set his mind upon them. And the youth went
daily to divert himself in the forest, by flinging sticks and staves.  And one day he saw his
mother's flock of goats, and near the goats two hinds were standing.  And he marvelled greatly
that these two should be without horns, while the others had them. And he thought they had
long run wild, and on that account they had lost their horns.  And by activity and swiftness
of foot, he drove the hinds and the goats together into the house which there was for the goats
at the extremity of the forest.  Then Peredur returned to his mother.  "Ah, mother," said he,
"a marvellous thing have I seen in the wood; two of thy goats have run wild, and lost their
horns, through their having been so long missing in the wood.  And no man had ever more trouble
than I had to drive them in."  Then they all arose and went to see.  And when they beheld the
hinds they were greatly astonished.

And one day they saw three knights coming along the horse-road on the borders of the forest.
And the three knights were Gwalchmai the son of Gwyar, and Geneir Gwystyl, and Owain the son
of Urien.  And Owain kept on the track of the knight who had divided the apples in Arthur's
Court, whom they were in pursuit of.  "Mother," said Peredur, "what are those yonder?"  "They
are angels, my son," said she.  "By my faith," said Peredur, "I will go and become an angel
with them."  And Peredur went to the road, and met them.  "Tell me, good soul," said Owain,
"sawest thou a knight pass this way, either to-day or yesterday?"  "I know not," answered he,
"what a knight is." "Such an one as I am," said Owain.  "If thou wilt tell me what I ask thee,
I will tell thee that which thou askest me."  "Gladly will I do so," replied Owain.  And Owain
shewed him all these things fully, and told him what use was made of them.  "Go forward," said
Peredur, "for I saw such an one as thou inquirest for, and I will follow thee."

Then Peredur returned to his mother and her company, and he said to her, "Mother, those were
not angels, but honourable knights."  Then his mother swooned away.  And Peredur went to the
place where they kept the horses that carried firewood, and that brought meat and drink from
the inhabited country to the desert.  "Wait, then, that I may counsel thee before thou goest."
"Willingly," he answered; "speak quickly."  "Go forward, then," she said, "to the Court of
Arthur, where there are the best, and the boldest, and the most bountiful of men.  And wherever
thou seest a church, repeat there thy Paternoster unto it. And if thou see meat and drink,
and have need of them, and none have the kindness or the courtesy to give them to thee, take
them thyself. If thou hear an outcry, proceed towards it, especially if it be the outcry of
a woman.

After this discourse, Peredur mounted the horse, and taking a handful of sharp-pointed forks
in his hand, he rode forth.  And he journeyed two days and two nights in the woody wildernesses,
and in desert places, without food and without drink.  And then he came to a vast wild wood,
and far within the wood he saw a fair even glade, and in the glade he saw a tent, and the tent
seeming to him to be a church, he repeated his Paternoster to it.  And he went towards it,
and the door of the tent was open.  And a golden chair was near the door. And on the chair
sat a lovely auburn-haired maiden, with a golden frontlet on her forehead, and sparkling stones
in the frontlet, and with a large gold ring on her hand.  And Peredur dismounted, and entered
the tent.  And the maiden was glad at his coming, and bade him welcome.  At the entrance of
the tent he saw food, and two flasks full of wine, and two loaves of fine wheaten flour, and
collops of the flesh of the wild boar.  "My mother told me," said Peredur, "wheresoever I saw
meat and drink, to take it."  "Take the meat and welcome, chieftain," said she.  So Peredur
took half of the meat and of the liquor himself, and left the rest to the maiden.  And when
Peredur had finished eating, he bent upon his knee before the maiden. "My mother," said he,
"told me, wheresoever I saw a fair jewel, to take it."  "Do so, my soul," said she.  So Peredur
took the ring. And he mounted his horse, and proceeded on his journey.

After this, behold the knight came to whom the tent belonged; and he was the Lord of the Glade.
And he saw the track of the horse, and he said to the maiden, "Tell me who has been here since
I departed."  "A man," said she, "of wonderful demeanour."  And she described to him what Peredur's
appearance and conduct had been.  "Tell me," said he, "did he offer thee any wrong?"  "No,"
answered the maiden, "by my faith, he harmed me not."  "By my faith, I do not believe thee;
and until I can meet with him, and revenge the insult he has done me, and wreak my vengeance
upon him, thou shalt not remain two nights in the same house."  And the knight arose, and set
forth to seek Peredur.

Meanwhile Peredur journeyed on towards Arthur's Court.  And before he reached it, another knight
had been there, who gave a ring of thick gold at the door of the gate for holding his horse,
and went into the Hall where Arthur and his household, and Gwenhwyvar and her maidens, were
assembled.  And the page of the chamber was serving Gwenhwyvar with a golden goblet.  Then
the knight dashed the liquor that was therein upon her face, and upon her stomacher, and gave
her a violent blow on the face, and said, "If any have the boldness to dispute this goblet
with me, and to revenge the insult to Gwenhwyvar, let him follow me to the meadow, and there
I will await him."  So the knight took his horse, and rode to the meadow.  And all the household
hung down their heads, lest any of them should be requested to go and avenge the insult to
Gwenhwyvar.  For it seemed to them, that no one would have ventured on so daring an outrage,
unless he possessed such powers, through magic or charms, that none could be able to take vengeance
upon him.  Then, behold, Peredur entered the Hall, upon the bony piebald horse, with the uncouth
trappings upon it; and in this way he traversed the whole length of the Hall.  In the centre
of the Hall stood Kai.  "Tell me, tall man," said Peredur, "is that Arthur yonder?"  "What
wouldest thou with Arthur?" asked Kai.  Thereupon he was perceived by all the household, and
they threw sticks at him.  Then, behold, a dwarf came forward.  He had already been a year
at Arthur's Court, both he and a female dwarf.  They had craved harbourage of Arthur, and had
obtained it; and during the whole year, neither of them had spoken a single word to any one.
When the dwarf beheld Peredur, "Haha!" said he, "the welcome of Heaven be unto thee, goodly
Peredur, son of Evrawc, the chief of warriors, and flower of knighthood."  Then exclaimed the
female dwarf, "Haha! goodly Peredur, son of Evrawc; the welcome of Heaven be unto thee, flower
of knights, and light of chivalry."  "Of a truth, maiden," said Kai, "thou art ill-bred to
remain mute for a year at the Court of Arthur, and then to speak as thou dost of such a man
as this."  And Kai kicked her with his foot, so that she fell to the ground senseless.  "Tall
man," said Peredur, "shew me which is Arthur."  "Hold thy peace," said Kai, "and go after the
knight who went hence to the meadow, and take from him the goblet, and overthrow him, and possess
thyself of his horse and arms, and then thou shalt receive the order of knighthood."  "I will
do so, tall man," said Peredur.  "Haha! lad," said Peredur, "my mother's servants were not
used to play with me in this wise; therefore, thus will I play with thee."  And thereupon he
struck him with a sharp- pointed fork, and it hit him in the eye, and came out at the back
of his neck, so that he instantly fell down lifeless.

"Verily," said Owain the son of Urien to Kai, "thou wert ill-advised, when thou didst send
that madman after the knight.  For one of two things must befall him.  He must either be overthrown,
or slain.  If he is overthrown by the knight, he will be counted by him to be an honourable
person of the Court, and an eternal disgrace will it be to Arthur and his warriors.  And if
he is slain, the disgrace will be the same, and moreover, his sin will be upon him; therefore
will I go to see what has befallen him."  So Owain went to the meadow, and he found Peredur
dragging the man about.  "What art thou doing thus?" said Owain.  "This iron coat," said Peredur,
"will never come from off him; not by my efforts, at any rate."  And Owain unfastened his armour
and his clothes.  "Here, my good soul," said he, "is a horse and armour better than thine.
Take them joyfully, and come with me to Arthur, to receive the order of knighthood, for thou
dost merit it."  "May I never shew my face again if I go," said Peredur; "but take thou the
goblet to Gwenhwyvar, and tell Arthur, that wherever I am, I will be his vassal, and will do
him what profit and service I am able.  And say that I will not come to his Court until I have
encountered the tall man that is there, to revenge the injury he did to the dwarf and dwarfess."
And Owain went back to the Court, and related all these things to Arthur and Gwenhwyvar, and
to all the household.

And Peredur rode forward.  And as he proceeded, behold a knight met him.  "Whence comest thou?"
said the knight.  "I come from Arthur's Court," said Peredur.  "Art thou one of his men?" asked
he.  "Yes, by my faith," he answered.  "A good service, truly, is that of Arthur." "Wherefore
sayest thou so?" said Peredur.  "I will tell thee," said he; "I have always been Arthur's enemy,
and all such of his men as I have ever encountered I have slain."  And without further parlance
they fought, and it was not long before Peredur brought him to the ground, over his horse's
crupper.  Then the knight besought his mercy.  "Mercy thou shalt have," said Peredur, "if thou
wilt make oath to me, that thou wilt go to Arthur's Court, and tell him that it was I that
overthrew thee, for the honour of his service; and say, that I will never come to the Court
until I have avenged the insult offered to the dwarf and dwarfess."  The knight pledged him
his faith of this, and proceeded to the Court of Arthur, and said as he had promised, and conveyed
the threat to Kai.

And Peredur rode forward.  And within that week he encountered sixteen knights, and overthrew
them all shamefully.  And they all went to Arthur's Court, taking with them the same message
which the first knight had conveyed from Peredur, and the same threat which he had sent to
Kai.  And thereupon Kai was reproved by Arthur; and Kai was greatly grieved thereat.

And Peredur rode forward.  And he came to a vast and desert wood, on the confines of which
was a lake.  And on the other side was a fair castle.  And on the border of the lake he saw
a venerable, hoary- headed man, sitting upon a velvet cushion, and having a garment of velvet
upon him.  And his attendants were fishing in the lake.  When the hoary-headed man beheld Peredur
approaching, he arose and went towards the castle.  And the old man was lame.  Peredur rode
to the palace, and the door was open, and he entered the hall.  And there was the hoary-headed
man sitting on a cushion, and a large blazing fire burning before him.  And the household and
the company arose to meet Peredur, and disarrayed him.  And the man asked the youth to sit
on the cushion; and they sat down, and conversed together.  When it was time, the tables were
laid, and they went to meat.  And when they had finished their meal, the man inquired of Peredur
if he knew well how to fight with the sword.  "I know not," said Peredur, "but were I to be
taught, doubtless I should."  "Whoever can play well with the cudgel and shield, will also
be able to fight with a sword."  And the man had two sons; the one had yellow hair, and the
other auburn. "Arise, youths," said he, "and play with the cudgel and the shield." And so did
they.  "Tell me, my soul," said the man, "which of the youths thinkest thou plays best."  "I
think," said Peredur, "that the yellow-haired youth could draw blood from the other, if he
chose." "Arise thou, my life, and take the cudgel and the shield from the hand of the youth
with the auburn hair, and draw blood from the yellow-haired youth if thou canst."  So Peredur
arose, and went to play with the yellow-haired youth; and he lifted up his arm, and struck
him such a mighty blow, that his brow fell over his eye, and the blood flowed forth.  "Ah,
my life," said the man, "come now, and sit down, for thou wilt become the best fighter with
the sword of any in this island; and I am thy uncle, thy mother's brother.  Leave, then, the
habits and the discourse of thy mother, and I will be thy teacher; and I will raise thee to
the rank of knight from this time forward.  And thus do thou.  And they had abundance of honour
and service.  And when it was time they went to sleep.  At the break of day, Peredur arose,
and took his horse, and with his uncle's permission he rode forth.  And he came to a vast desert
wood, and at the further end of the wood was a meadow, and on the other side of the meadow
he saw a large castle.  And thitherward Peredur bent his way, and he found the gate open, and
he proceeded to the hall.  And he beheld a stately hoary-headed man sitting on one side of
the hall, and many pages around him, who arose to receive and to honour Peredur.  And they
placed him by the side of the owner of the palace. Then they discoursed together; and when
it was time to eat, they caused Peredur to sit beside the nobleman during the repast.  And
when they had eaten and drunk as much as they desired, the nobleman asked Peredur whether he
could fight with a sword?  "Were I to receive instruction," said Peredur, "I think I could."
Now, there was on the floor of the hall a huge staple, as large as a warrior could grasp. 
"Take yonder sword," said the man to Peredur, "and strike the iron staple."  So Peredur arose
and struck the staple, so that he cut it in two; and the sword broke into two parts also. "Place
the two parts together, and reunite them," and Peredur placed them together, and they became
entire as they were before.  And a second time he struck upon the staple, so that both it and
the sword broke in two, and as before they reunited.  And the third time he gave a like blow,
and placed the broken parts together, and neither the staple nor the sword would unite as before.
"Youth," said the nobleman, "come now, and sit down, and my blessing be upon thee. Thou fightest
best with the sword of any man in the kingdom.  Thou hast arrived at two-thirds of thy strength,
and the other third thou hast not yet obtained; and when thou attainest to thy full power,
none will be able to contend with thee.  I am thy uncle, thy mother's brother, and I am brother
to the man in whose house thou wast last night."  And when time was that they should sleep,
Peredur was brought into a fair chamber.

And the next day, with his uncle's permission, he rode forth.  And he came to a wood, and far
within the wood he heard a loud cry, and he saw a beautiful woman with auburn hair, and a horse
with a saddle upon it, standing near her, and a corpse by her side.  And as she strove to place
the corpse upon the horse, it fell to the ground, and thereupon she made a great lamentation.
"Tell me, sister," said Peredur, "wherefore art thou bewailing?"  "Oh! accursed Peredur, little
pity has my ill-fortune ever met with from thee." "Wherefore," said Peredur, "am I accursed?"
"Because thou wast the cause of thy mother's death; for when thou didst ride forth against
her will, anguish seized upon her heart, so that she died; and therefore art thou accursed.
And the dwarf and the dwarfess that thou sawest at Arthur's Court were the dwarfs of thy father
and mother; and I am thy foster-sister, and this was my wedded husband, and he was slain by
the knight that is in the glade in the wood; and do not thou go near him, lest thou shouldest
be slain by him likewise."  "My sister, thou dost reproach me wrongfully; through my having
so long remained amongst you, I shall scarcely vanquish him; and had I continued longer, it
would, indeed, be difficult for me to succeed.  Cease, therefore, thy lamenting, for it is
of no avail, and I will bury the body, and then I will go in quest of the knight, and see if
I can do vengeance upon him."  And when he had buried the body, they went to the place where
the knight was, and found him riding proudly along the glade; and he inquired of Peredur whence
he came.  "I come from Arthur's Court."  "And art thou one of Arthur's men?"  "Yes, by my faith."
"A profitable alliance, truly, is that of Arthur."  And without further parlance, they encountered
one another, and immediately Peredur overthrew the knight, and he besought mercy of Peredur.
"Mercy shalt thou have," said he, "upon these terms, that thou take this woman in marriage,
and do her all the honour and reverence in thy power, seeing thou hast, without cause, slain
her wedded husband; and that thou go to Arthur's Court, and shew him that it was I that overthrew
thee, to do him honour and service; and that thou tell him that I will never come to his Court
again until I have met with the tall man that is there, to take vengeance upon him for his
insult to the dwarf and dwarfess."  And he took the knight's assurance, that he would perform
all this.  Then the knight provided the lady with a horse and garments that were suitable for
her, and took her with him to Arthur's Court.  And he told Arthur all that had occurred, and
gave the defiance to Kai.  And Arthur and all his household reproved Kai, for having driven
such a youth as Peredur from his Court.

Said Owain the son of Urien, "This youth will never come into the Court until Kai has gone
forth from it."  "By my faith," said Arthur, "I will search all the deserts in the Island of
Britain, until I find Peredur, and then let him and his adversary do their utmost to each other."

Then Peredur rode forward.  And he came to a desert wood, where he saw not the track either
of men or animals, and where there was nothing but bushes and weeds.  And at the upper end
of the wood he saw a vast castle, wherein were many strong towers; and when he came near the
gate, he found the weeds taller than he had seen them elsewhere.  And he struck the gate with
the shaft of his lance, and thereupon behold a lean, auburn-haired youth came to an opening
in the battlements.  "Choose thou, chieftain," said he, "whether shall I open the gate unto
thee, or shall I announce unto those that are chief, that thou art at the gateway?"  "Say that
I am here," said Peredur, "and if it is desired that I should enter, I will go in." And the
youth came back, and opened the gate for Peredur.  And when he went into the hall, he beheld
eighteen youths, lean and red- headed, of the same height, and of the same aspect, and of the
same dress, and of the same age as the one who had opened the gate for him.  And they were
well skilled in courtesy and in service.  And they disarrayed him.  Then they sat down to discourse.
Thereupon, behold five maidens came from the chamber into the hall.  And Peredur was certain
that he had never seen another of so fair an aspect as the chief of the maidens.  And she had
an old garment of satin upon her, which had once been handsome, but was then so tattered, that
her skin could be seen through it.  And whiter was her skin than the bloom of crystal, and
her hair and her two eyebrows were blacker than jet, and on her cheeks were two red spots,
redder than whatever is reddest.  And the maiden welcomed Peredur, and put her arms about his
neck, and made him sit down beside her.  Not long after this he saw two nuns enter, and a flask
full of wine was borne by one, and six loaves of white bread by the other.  "Lady," said they,
"Heaven is witness, that there is not so much of food and liquor as this left in yonder Convent
this night."  Then they went to meat, and Peredur observed that the maiden wished to give more
of the food and of the liquor to him than to any of the others.  "My sister," said Peredur,
"I will share out the food and the liquor."  "Not so, my soul," said she.  "By my faith but
I will."  So Peredur took the bread, and he gave an equal portion of it to each alike, as well
as a cup full of the liquor.  And when it was time for them to sleep, a chamber was prepared
for Peredur, and he went to rest.

"Behold, sister," said the youths to the fairest and most exalted of the maidens, "we have
counsel for thee."  "What may it be?" she inquired.  "Go to the youth that is in the upper
chamber, and offer to become his wife, or the lady of his love, if it seem well to him." "That
were indeed unfitting," said she.  "Hitherto I have not been the lady-love of any knight, and
to make him such an offer before I am wooed by him, that, truly, can I not do."  "By our confession
to Heaven, unless thou actest thus, we will leave thee here to thy enemies, to do as they will
with thee."  And through fear of this, the maiden went forth; and shedding tears, she proceeded
to the chamber.  And with the noise of the door opening, Peredur awoke; and the maiden was
weeping and lamenting.  "Tell me, my sister," said Peredur, "wherefore dost thou weep?"  "I
will tell thee, lord," said she.  "My father possessed these dominions as their chief, and
this palace was his, and with it he held the best earldom in the kingdom; then the son of another
earl sought me of my father, and I was not willing to be given unto him, and my father would
not give me against my will, either to him or any earl in the world.  And my father had no
child except myself.  And after my father's death, these dominions came into my own hands,
and then was I less willing to accept him than before.  So he made war upon me, and conquered
all my possessions, except this one house.  And through the valour of the men whom thou hast
seen, who are my foster-brothers, and the strength of the house, it can never be taken while
food and drink remain.  And now our provisions are exhausted; but, as thou hast seen, we have
been fed by the nuns, to whom the country is free.  And at length they also are without supply
of food or liquor.  And at no later date than to-morrow, the earl will come against this place
with all his forces; and if I fall into his power, my fate will be no better than to be given
over to the grooms of his horses.  Therefore, lord, I am come to offer to place myself in thy
hands, that thou mayest succour me, either by taking me hence, or by defending me here, whichever
may seem best unto thee."  "Go, my sister," said he, "and sleep; nor will I depart from thee
until I do that which thou requirest, or prove whether I can assist thee or not."  The maiden
went again to rest; and the next morning she came to Peredur, and saluted him.  "Heaven prosper
thee, my soul, and what tidings dost thou bring?"  "None other, than that the earl and all
his forces have alighted at the gate, and I never beheld any place so covered with tents, and
thronged with knights challenging others to the combat."  "Truly," said Peredur, "let my horse
be made ready."  So his horse was accoutred, and he arose and sallied forth to the meadow.
And there was a knight riding proudly along the meadow, having raised the signal for battle.
And they encountered, and Peredur threw the knight over his horse's crupper to the ground.
And at the close of the day, one of the chief knights came to fight with him, and he overthrew
him also, so that he besought his mercy.  "Who art thou?" said Peredur.  "Verily," said he,
"I am Master of the Household to the earl."  "And how much of the countess's possessions is
there in thy power?"  "The third part, verily," answered he.  "Then," said Peredur, "restore
to her the third of her possessions in full, and all the profit thou hast made by them, and
bring meat and drink for a hundred men, with their horses and arms, to her court this night.
And thou shalt remain her captive, unless she wish to take thy life." And this he did forthwith.
And that night the maiden was right joyful, and they fared plenteously.

And the next day Peredur rode forth to the meadow; and that day he vanquished a multitude of
the host.  And at the close of the day, there came a proud and stately knight, and Peredur
overthrew him, and he besought his mercy.  "Who art thou?" said Peredur.  "I am Steward of
the Palace," said he.  "And how much of the maiden's possessions are under thy control?"  "One-third
part," answered he.  "Verily," said Peredur, "thou shalt fully restore to the maiden her possessions,
and, moreover, thou shalt give her meat and drink for two hundred men, and their horses and
their arms.  And for thyself, thou shalt be her captive."  And immediately it was so done.

And the third day Peredur rode forth to the meadow; and he vanquished more that day than on
either of the preceding.  And at the close of the day, an earl came to encounter him, and he
overthrew him, and he besought his mercy.  "Who art thou?" said Peredur.  "I am the earl,"
said he.  "I will not conceal it from thee."  "Verily," said Peredur, "thou shalt restore the
whole of the maiden's earldom, and shalt give her thine own earldom in addition thereto, and
meat and drink for three hundred men, and their horses and arms, and thou thyself shalt remain
in her power."  And thus it was fulfilled.  And Peredur tarried three weeks in the country,
causing tribute and obedience to be paid to the maiden, and the government to be placed in
her hands. "With thy leave," said Peredur, "I will go hence."  "Verily, my brother, desirest
thou this?"  "Yes, by my faith; and had it not been for love of thee, I should not have been
here thus long."  "My soul," said she, "who art thou?"  "I am Peredur the son of Evrawc from
the North; and if ever thou art in trouble or in danger, acquaint me therewith, and if I can,
I will protect thee."

So Peredur rode forth.  And far thence there met him a lady, mounted on a horse that was lean,
and covered with sweat; and she saluted the youth.  "Whence comest thou, my sister?"  Then
she told him the cause of her journey.  Now she was the wife of the Lord of the Glade. "Behold,"
said he, "I am the knight through whom thou art in trouble, and he shall repent it, who has
treated thee thus."  Thereupon, behold a knight rode up, and he inquired of Peredur, if he
had seen a knight such as he was seeking.  "Hold thy peace," said Peredur, "I am he whom thou
seekest; and by my faith, thou deservest ill of thy household for thy treatment of the maiden,
for she is innocent concerning me."  And the knight plighted him his faith thereto.

Then Peredur rode forward.  And above him he beheld a castle, and thitherward he went.  And
he struck upon the gate with his lance, and then, behold, a comely auburn-haired youth opened
the gate, and he had the stature of a warrior, and the years of a boy.  And when Peredur came
into the hall, there was a tall and stately lady sitting in a chair, and many handmaidens around
her; and the lady rejoiced at his coming.  And when it was time, they went to meat.  And after
their repast was finished, "It were well for thee, chieftain," said she, "to go elsewhere to
sleep."  "Wherefore can I not sleep here?" said Peredur.  "Nine sorceresses are here, my soul,
of the sorceresses of Gloucester, and their father and their mother are with them; and unless
we can make our escape before daybreak, we shall be slain; and already they have conquered
and laid waste all the country, except this one dwelling."  "Behold," said Peredur, "I will
remain here to-night, and if you are in trouble, I will do you what service I can; but harm
shall you not receive from me."  So they went to rest.  And with the break of day, Peredur
heard a dreadful outcry. And he hastily arose, and went forth in his vest and his doublet,
with his sword about his neck, and he saw a sorceress overtake one of the watch, who cried
out violently.  Peredur attacked the sorceress, and struck her upon the head with his sword,
so that he flattened her helmet and her head-piece like a dish upon her head.  "Thy mercy,
goodly Peredur, son of Evrawc, and the mercy of Heaven."  "How knowest thou, hag, that I am
Peredur?"  "By destiny, and the foreknowledge that I should suffer harm from thee.  And thou
shalt take a horse and armour of me; and with me thou shalt go to learn chivalry and the use
of thy arms."  Said Peredur, "Thou shalt have mercy, if thou pledge thy faith thou wilt never
more injure the dominions of the Countess."  And Peredur took surety of this, and with permission
of the Countess, he set forth with the sorceress to the palace of the sorceresses.  And there
he remained for three weeks, and then he made choice of a horse and arms, and went his way.

Now Arthur and his household were in search of Peredur.  And from the intensity with which
he thought upon the lady whom best he loved, he gave him no answer.  Then the youth thrust
at Peredur with his lance, and Peredur turned upon him, and struck him over his horse's crupper
to the ground.  And after this, four-and-twenty youths came to him, and he did not answer one
more than another, but gave the same reception to all, bringing them with one single thrust
to the ground.  And then came Kai, and spoke to Peredur rudely and angrily; and Peredur took
him with his lance under the jaw, and cast him from him with a thrust, so that he broke his
arm and his shoulder-blade, and he rode over him one-and-twenty times.  And while he lay thus,
stunned with the violence of the pain that he had suffered, his horse returned back at a wild
and prancing pace.  And when the household saw the horse come back without his rider, they
rode forth in haste to the place where the encounter had been.  And when they first came there,
they thought that Kai was slain; but they found that if he had a skilful physician, he yet
might live.  And Peredur moved not from his meditation, on seeing the concourse that was around
Kai.  And Kai was brought to Arthur's tent, and Arthur caused skilful physicians to come to
him.  And Arthur was grieved that Kai had met with this reverse, for he loved him greatly.
And through such ill-advised proceeding, perchance this misadventure has befallen him who last
met with him. And if it seem well to thee, lord, I will go and see if this knight hath changed
from his thought; and if he has, I will ask him courteously to come and visit thee."  Then
Kai was wroth, and he spoke angry and spiteful words.  "Gwalchmai," said he, "I know that thou
wilt bring him because he is fatigued.  Little praise and honour, nevertheless, wilt thou have
from vanquishing a weary knight, who is tired with fighting.  Yet thus hast thou gained the
advantage over many.  And while thy speech and thy soft words last, a coat of thin linen were
armour sufficient for thee, and thou wilt not need to break either lance or sword in fighting
with the knight in the state he is in."  Then said Gwalchmai to Kai, "Thou mightest use more
pleasant words, wert thou so minded:  and it behoves thee not upon me to wreak thy wrath and
thy displeasure.  Methinks I shall bring the knight hither with me without breaking either
my arm or my shoulder." Then said Arthur to Gwalchmai, "Thou speakest like a wise and prudent
man; go, and take enough of armour about thee, and choose thy horse." And Gwalchmai accoutred
himself and rode forward hastily to the place where Peredur was.  They attacked me, and I was
annoyed thereat, for it was not pleasing to me to be drawn from the thought that I was in,
for I was thinking of the lady whom best I love, and thus was she brought to my mind: --I was
looking upon the snow, and upon the raven, and upon the drops of the blood of the bird that
the hawk had killed upon the snow.  And I bethought me that her whiteness was like that of
the snow, and that the blackness of her hair and her eyebrows like that of the raven, and that
the two red spots upon her cheeks were like the two drops of blood."  Said Gwalchmai, "This
was not an ungentle thought, and I should marvel if it were pleasant to thee to be drawn from
it."  "Tell me," said Peredur, "is Kai in Arthur's Court?"  "He is," said he, "and behold he
is the knight that fought with thee last; and it would have been better for him had he not
come, for his arm and his shoulder-blade were broken with the fall which he had from thy spear."
"Verily," said Peredur, "I am not sorry to have thus begun to avenge the insult to the dwarf
and dwarfess."  Then Gwalchmai marvelled to hear him speak of the dwarf and the dwarfess; and
he approached him, and threw his arms around his neck, and asked him what was his name.  "Peredur
the son of Evrawc am I called," said he; "and thou, Who art thou?" "I am called Gwalchmai,"
he replied.

So they rode forth together joyfully towards the place where Arthur was, and when Kai saw them
coming, he said, "I knew that Gwalchmai needed not to fight the knight.  And it is no wonder
that he should gain fame; more can he do by his fair words than I by the strength of my arm."
And Peredur went with Gwalchmai to his tent, and they took off their armour.  And Peredur put
on garments like those that Gwalchmai wore, and they went together unto Arthur, and saluted
him. "Behold, lord," said Gwalchmai, "him whom thou hast sought so long." "Welcome unto thee,
chieftain," said Arthur.  "With me thou shalt remain; and had I known thy valour had been such,
thou shouldst not have left me as thou didst; nevertheless, this was predicted of thee by the
dwarf and the dwarfess, whom Kai ill-treated and whom thou hast avenged."  And hereupon, behold
there came the Queen and her handmaidens, and Peredur saluted them.  And they were rejoiced
to see him, and bade him welcome.  And Arthur did him great honour and respect, and they returned
towards Caerlleon.

And the first night Peredur came to Caerlleon to Arthur's Court, and as he walked in the city
after his repast, behold, there met him Angharad Law Eurawc.  "By my faith, sister," said Peredur,
"thou art a beauteous and lovely maiden; and, were it pleasing to thee, I could love thee above
all women."  "I pledge my faith," said she, "that I do not love thee, nor will I ever do so."
"I also pledge my faith," said Peredur, "that I will never speak a word to any Christian again,
until thou come to love me above all men."

The next day Peredur went forth by the high road, along a mountain- ridge, and he saw a valley
of a circular form, the confines of which were rocky and wooded.  And the flat part of the
valley was in meadows, and there were fields betwixt the meadows and the wood.  And in the
bosom of the wood he saw large black houses of uncouth workmanship.  And he dismounted, and
led his horse towards the wood. And a little way within the wood he saw a rocky ledge, along
which the road lay.  And upon the ledge was a lion bound by a chain, and sleeping.  And beneath
the lion he saw a deep pit of immense size, full of the bones of men and animals.  And Peredur
drew his sword and struck the lion, so that he fell into the mouth of the pit and hung there
by the chain; and with a second blow he struck the chain and broke it, and the lion fell into
the pit; and Peredur led his horse over the rocky ledge, until he came into the valley.  And
in the centre of the valley he saw a fair castle, and he went towards it. And in the meadow
by the castle he beheld a huge grey man sitting, who was larger than any man he had ever before
seen.  And two young pages were shooting the hilts of their daggers, of the bone of the sea-horse.
And one of the pages had red hair, and the other auburn. And they went before him to the place
where the grey man was, and Peredur saluted him.  And the grey man said, "Disgrace to the beard
of my porter."  Then Peredur understood that the porter was the lion.--And the grey man and
the pages went together into the castle, and Peredur accompanied them; and he found it a fair
and noble place. And they proceeded to the hall, and the tables were already laid, and upon
them was abundance of food and liquor.  And thereupon he saw an aged woman and a young woman
come from the chamber; and they were the most stately women he had ever seen.  Then they washed
and went to meat, and the grey man sat in the upper seat at the head of the table, and the
aged woman next to him.  And Peredur and the maiden were placed together, and the two young
pages served them.  And the maiden gazed sorrowfully upon Peredur, and Peredur asked the maiden
wherefore she was sad.  "For thee, my soul; for, from when I first beheld thee, I have loved
thee above all men.  And it pains me to know that so gentle a youth as thou should have such
a doom as awaits thee to-morrow.  Sawest thou the numerous black houses in the bosom of the
wood?  All these belong to the vassals of the grey man yonder, who is my father.  And they
are all giants.  And to-morrow they will rise up against thee, and will slay thee.  And the
Round Valley is this valley called."  "Listen, fair maiden, wilt thou contrive that my horse
and arms be in the same lodging with me to-night?"  "Gladly will I cause it so to be, by Heaven,
if I can."

And when it was time for them to sleep rather than to carouse, they went to rest.  And the
maiden caused Peredur's horse and arms to be in the same lodging with him.  And the next morning
Peredur heard a great tumult of men and horses around the castle.  And Peredur arose, and armed
himself and his horse, and went to the meadow.  Then the aged woman and the maiden came to
the grey man:  "Lord," said they, "take the word of the youth, that he will never disclose
what he has seen in this place, and we will be his sureties that he keep it."  "I will not
do so, by my faith," said the grey man.  So Peredur fought with the host, and towards evening
he had slain the one-third of them without receiving any hurt himself.  Then said the aged
woman, "Behold, many of thy host have been slain by the youth; do thou, therefore, grant him
mercy."  "I will not grant it, by my faith," said he.  And the aged woman and the fair maiden
were upon the battlements of the castle, looking forth.  And at that juncture, Peredur encountered
the yellow-haired youth and slew him.  "Lord," said the maiden, "grant the young man mercy."
"That will I not do, by Heaven," he replied; and thereupon Peredur attacked the auburn- haired
youth, and slew him likewise.  "It were better that thou hadst accorded mercy to the youth
before he had slain thy two sons; for now scarcely wilt thou thyself escape from him."  "Go,
maiden, and beseech the youth to grant mercy unto us, for we yield ourselves into his hands."
So the maiden came to the place where Peredur was, and besought mercy for her father, and for
all such of his vassals as had escaped alive.  "Thou shalt have it, on condition that thy father
and all that are under him go and render homage to Arthur, and tell him that it was his vassal
Peredur that did him this service."  "This will we do willingly, by Heaven."  "And you shall
also receive baptism; and I will send to Arthur, and beseech him to bestow this valley upon
thee and upon thy heirs after thee for ever."  Then they went in, and the grey man and the
tall woman saluted Peredur.  And the grey man said unto him, "Since I have possessed this valley
I have not seen any Christian depart with his life, save thyself.  And we will go to do homage
to Arthur, and to embrace the faith and be baptized."  Then said Peredur, "To Heaven I render
thanks that I have not broken my vow to the lady that best I love, which was, that I would
not speak one word unto any Christian."

That night they tarried there.  And the next day, in the morning, the grey man, with his company,
set forth to Arthur's Court; and they did homage unto Arthur, and he caused them to be baptized.
And the grey man told Arthur that it was Peredur that had vanquished them.  And Arthur gave
the valley to the grey man and his company, to hold it of him as Peredur had besought.  And
with Arthur's permission, the grey man went back to the Round Valley.

Peredur rode forward next day, and he traversed a vast tract of desert, in which no dwellings
were.  And at length he came to a habitation, mean and small.  And there he heard that there
was a serpent that lay upon a gold ring, and suffered none to inhabit the country for seven
miles around.  And Peredur came to the place where he heard the serpent was.  And angrily,
furiously, and desperately fought he with the serpent; and at last he killed it, and took away
the ring.  And thus he was for a long time without speaking a word to any Christian.  And therefrom
he lost his colour and his aspect, through extreme longing after the Court of Arthur, and the
society of the lady whom best he loved, and of his companions.  Then he proceeded forward to
Arthur's Court, and on the road there met him Arthur's household going on a particular errand,
with Kai at their head.  And Peredur knew them all, but none of the household recognized him.
"Whence comest thou, chieftain?" said Kai.  And this he asked him twice and three times, and
he answered him not.  And Kai thrust him through the thigh with his lance.  And lest he should
be compelled to speak, and to break his vow, he went on without stopping.  "Then," said Gwalchmai,
"I declare to Heaven, Kai, that thou hast acted ill in committing such an outrage on a youth
like this, who cannot speak."

And Gwalchmai returned back to Arthur's Court.  "Lady," said he to Gwenhwyvar, "seest thou
how wicked an outrage Kai has committed upon this youth who cannot speak; for Heaven's sake,
and for mine, cause him to have medical care before I come back, and I will repay thee the charge."

And before the men returned from their errand, a knight came to the meadow beside Arthur's
Palace, to dare some one to the encounter. And his challenge was accepted; and Peredur fought
with him, and overthrew him.  And for a week he overthrew one knight every day.

And one day, Arthur and his household were going to Church, and they beheld a knight who had
raised the signal for combat.  "Verily," said Arthur, "by the valour of men, I will not go
hence until I have my horse and my arms to overthrow yonder boor."  Then went the attendants
to fetch Arthur's horse and arms.  And Peredur met the attendants as they were going back,
and he took the horse and arms from them, and proceeded to the meadow; and all those who saw
him arise and go to do battle with the knight, went upon the tops of the houses, and the mounds,
and the high places, to behold the combat. And Peredur beckoned with his hand to the knight
to commence the fight.  And the knight thrust at him, but he was not thereby moved from where
he stood.  And Peredur spurred his horse, and ran at him wrathfully, furiously, fiercely, desperately,
and with mighty rage, and he gave him a thrust, deadly-wounding, severe, furious, adroit, and
strong, under his jaw, and raised him out of his saddle, and cast him a long way from him.
And Peredur went back, and left the horse and the arms with the attendant as before, and he
went on foot to the Palace.

Then Peredur went by the name of the Dumb Youth.  And behold, Angharad Law Eurawc met him.
"I declare to Heaven, chieftain," said she, "woful is it that thou canst not speak; for couldst
thou speak, I would love thee best of all men; and by my faith, although thou canst not, I
do love thee above all."  "Heaven reward thee, my sister," said Peredur, "by my faith I also
do love thee."  Thereupon it was known that he was Peredur.  And then he held fellowship with
Gwalchmai, and Owain the son of Urien, and all the household, and he remained in Arthur's Court.

Arthur was in Caerlleon upon Usk; and he went to hunt, and Peredur went with him.  And Peredur
let loose his dog upon a hart, and the dog killed the hart in a desert place.  And a short
space from him he saw signs of a dwelling, and towards the dwelling he went, and he beheld
a hall, and at the door of the hall he found bald swarthy youths playing at chess.  And when
he entered, he beheld three maidens sitting on a bench, and they were all clothed alike, as
became persons of high rank.  And he came, and sat by them upon the bench; and one of the maidens
looked steadfastly upon Peredur, and wept.  And Peredur asked her wherefore she was weeping.
"Through grief, that I should see so fair a youth as thou art, slain."  "Who will slay me?"
inquired Peredur.  "If thou art so daring as to remain here to-night, I will tell thee."  "How
great soever my danger may be from remaining here, I will listen unto thee."  "This Palace
is owned by him who is my father," said the maiden, "and he slays every one who comes hither
without his leave."  "What sort of a man is thy father, that he is able to slay every one thus?"
"A man who does violence and wrong unto his neighbours, and who renders justice unto none."
And hereupon he saw the youths arise and clear the chessmen from the board.  And he heard a
great tumult; and after the tumult there came in a huge black one-eyed man, and the maidens
arose to meet him.  And they disarrayed him, and he went and sat down; and after he had rested
and pondered awhile, he looked at Peredur, and asked who the knight was.  "Lord," said one
of the maidens, "he is the fairest and gentlest youth that ever thou didst see.  And for the
sake of Heaven, and of thine own dignity, have patience with him." "For thy sake I will have
patience, and I will grant him his life this night."  Then Peredur came towards them to the
fire, and partook of food and liquor, and entered into discourse with the ladies.  And being
elated with the liquor, he said to the black man, "It is a marvel to me, so mighty as thou
sayest thou art, who could have put out thine eye."  "It is one of my habits," said the black
man, "that whosoever puts to me the question which thou hast asked, shall not escape with his
life, either as a free gift or for a price."  "Lord," said the maiden, "whatsoever he may say
to thee in jest, and through the excitement of liquor, make good that which thou saidst and
didst promise me just now."  "I will do so, gladly, for thy sake," said he. "Willingly will
I grant him his life this night."  And that night thus they remained.

And the next day the black man got up, and put on his armour, and said to Peredur, "Arise,
man, and suffer death."  And Peredur said unto him, "Do one of two things, black man; if thou
wilt fight with me, either throw off thy own armour, or give arms to me, that I may encounter
thee."  "Ha, man," said he, "couldst thou fight, if thou hadst arms?  Take, then, what arms
thou dost choose."  And thereupon the maiden came to Peredur with such arms as pleased him;
and he fought with the black man, and forced him to crave his mercy.  "Black man, thou shalt
have mercy, provided thou tell me who thou art, and who put out thine eye."  "Lord, I will
tell thee; I lost it in fighting with the Black Serpent of the Carn.  There is a mound, which
is called the Mound of Mourning; and on the mound there is a carn, and in the carn there is
a serpent, and on the tail of the serpent there is a stone, and the virtues of the stone are
such, that whosoever should hold it in one hand, in the other he will have as much gold as
he may desire.  And in fighting with this serpent was it that I lost my eye.  And the Black
Oppressor am I called.  And for this reason I am called the Black Oppressor, that there is
not a single man around me whom I have not oppressed, and justice have I done unto none." 
"Tell me," said Peredur, "how far is it hence?" "The same day that thou settest forth, thou
wilt come to the Palace of the Sons of the King of the Tortures."  "Wherefore are they called
thus?"  "The Addanc of the Lake slays them once every day.  When thou goest thence, thou wilt
come to the Court of the Countess of the Achievements."  "What achievements are there?" asked
Peredur.  "Three hundred men there are in her household, and unto every stranger that comes
to the Court, the achievements of her household are related. And this is the manner of it,--the
three hundred men of the household sit next unto the Lady; and that not through disrespect
unto the guests, but that they may relate the achievements of the household. And the day that
thou goest thence, thou wilt reach the Mound of Mourning, and round about the mound there are
the owners of three hundred tents guarding the serpent."  "Since thou hast, indeed, been an
oppressor so long," said Peredur, "I will cause that thou continue so no longer."  So he slew him.

Then the maiden spoke, and began to converse with him.  "If thou wast poor when thou camest
here, henceforth thou wilt be rich through the treasure of the black man whom thou hast slain.
Thou seest the many lovely maidens that there are in this Court; thou shalt have her whom thou
best likest for the lady of thy love."  "Lady, I came not hither from my country to woo; but
match yourselves as it liketh you with the comely youths I see here; and none of your goods
do I desire, for I need them not."  Then Peredur rode forward, and he came to the Palace of
the Sons of the King of the Tortures; and when he entered the Palace, he saw none but women;
and they rose up, and were joyful at his coming; and as they began to discourse with him, he
beheld a charger arrive, with a saddle upon it, and a corpse in the saddle. And one of the
women arose, and took the corpse from the saddle, and anointed it in a vessel of warm water,
which was below the door, and placed precious balsam upon it; and the man rose up alive, and
came to the place where Peredur was, and greeted him, and was joyful to see him.  And two other
men came in upon their saddles, and the maiden treated these two in the same manner as she
had done the first.  Then Peredur asked the chieftain wherefore it was thus.  And they told
him, that there was an Addanc in a cave, which slew them once every day.  And thus they remained
that night.

And next morning the youths arose to sally forth, and Peredur besought them, for the sake of
the ladies of their love, to permit him to go with them; but they refused him, saying, "If
thou shouldst be slain there, thou hast none to bring thee back to life again." And they rode
forward, and Peredur followed after them; and, after they had disappeared out of his sight,
he came to a mound, whereon sat the fairest lady he had ever beheld.  "I know thy quest," said
she; "thou art going to encounter the Addanc, and he will slay thee, and that not by courage,
but by craft.  He has a cave, and at the entrance of the cave there is a stone pillar, and
he sees every one that enters, and none see him; and from behind the pillar he slays every
one with a poisonous dart.  And if thou wouldst pledge me thy faith to love me above all women,
I would give thee a stone, by which thou shouldst see him when thou goest in, and he should
not see thee."  "I will, by my troth," said Peredur, "for when first I beheld thee I loved
thee; and where shall I seek thee?"  "When thou seekest me, seek towards India."  And the maiden
vanished, after placing the stone in Peredur's hand.

And he came towards a valley, through which ran a river; and the borders of the valley were
wooded, and on each side of the river were level meadows.  And on one side of the river he
saw a flock of white sheep, and on the other a flock of black sheep.  And whenever one of the
white sheep bleated, one of the black sheep would cross over and become white; and when one
of the black sheep bleated, one of the white sheep would cross over and become black. And nigh
thereto he saw a youth sitting upon a mound, and two greyhounds, white-breasted and spotted,
in leashes, lying by his side.  And certain was he that he had never seen a youth of so royal
a bearing as he.  And in the wood opposite he heard hounds raising a herd of deer.  And Peredur
saluted the youth, and the youth greeted him in return.  And there were three roads leading
from the mound; two of them were wide roads, and the third was more narrow.  And Peredur inquired
where the three roads went.  "One of them goes to my palace," said the youth; "and one of two
things I counsel thee to do; either to proceed to my palace, which is before thee, and where
thou wilt find my wife, or else to remain here to see the hounds chasing the roused deer from
the wood to the plain.  And thou shalt see the best greyhounds thou didst ever behold, and
the boldest in the chase, kill them by the water beside us; and when it is time to go to meat,
my page will come with my horse to meet me, and thou shalt rest in my palace to-night."  "Heaven
reward thee; but I cannot tarry, for onward must I go."  "The other road leads to the town,
which is near here, and wherein food and liquor may be bought; and the road which is narrower
than the others goes towards the cave of the Addanc." "With thy permission, young man, I will
go that way."

And Peredur went towards the cave.  And he took the stone in his left hand, and his lance in
his right.  And as he went in he perceived the Addanc, and he pierced him through with his
lance, and cut off his head.  And as he came from the cave, behold the three companions were
at the entrance; and they saluted Peredur, and told him that there was a prediction that he
should slay that monster.  And Peredur gave the head to the young men, and they offered him
in marriage whichever of the three sisters he might choose, and half their kingdom with her.
"I came not hither to woo," said Peredur, "but if peradventure I took a wife, I should prefer
your sister to all others."  And Peredur rode forward, and he heard a noise behind him.  And
he looked back, and saw a man upon a red horse, with red armour upon him; and the man rode
up by his side, and saluted him, and wished him the favour of Heaven and of man.  And Peredur
greeted the youth kindly. "Lord, I come to make a request unto thee."  "What wouldest thou?"
"That thou shouldest take me as thine attendant."  "Whom then should I take as my attendant,
if I did so?"  "I will not conceal from thee what kindred I am of.  Etlym Gleddyv Coch am I
called, an Earl from the East Country."  "I marvel that thou shouldest offer to become attendant
to a man whose possessions are no greater than thine own; for I have but an earldom like thyself.
But since thou desirest to be my attendant, I will take thee joyfully."

And they went forward to the Court of the Countess, and all they of the Court were glad at
their coming; and they were told it was not through disrespect they were placed below the household,
but that such was the usage of the Court.  For, whoever should overthrow the three hundred
men of her household, would sit next the Countess, and she would love him above all men.  And
Peredur having overthrown the three hundred men of her household, sat down beside her, and
the Countess said, "I thank Heaven that I have a youth so fair and so valiant as thou, since
I have not obtained the man whom best I love." "Who is he whom best thou lovest?"  "By my faith,
Etlym Gleddyv Coch is the man whom I love best, and I have never seen him."  "Of a truth, Etlym
is my companion; and behold here he is, and for his sake did I come to joust with thy household.
And he could have done so better than I, had it pleased him.  And I do give thee unto him."
"Heaven reward thee, fair youth, and I will take the man whom I love above all others."  And
the Countess became Etlym's bride from that moment.

And the next day Peredur set forth towards the Mound of Mourning. "By thy hand, lord, but I
will go with thee," said Etlym.  Then they went forwards till they came in sight of the mound
and the tents. "Go unto yonder men," said Peredur to Etlym, "and desire them to come and do
me homage."  So Etlym went unto them, and said unto them thus,--"Come and do homage to my lord."
"Who is thy lord?" said they.  "Peredur with the long lance is my lord," said Etlym.  "Were
it permitted to slay a messenger, thou shouldest not go back to thy lord alive, for making
unto Kings, and Earls, and Barons so arrogant a demand as to go and do him homage."  Peredur
desired him to go back to them, and to give them their choice, either to do him homage, or
to do battle with him.  And they chose rather to do battle.  And that day Peredur overthrew
the owners of a hundred tents; and the next day he overthrew the owners of a hundred more;
and the third day the remaining hundred took counsel to do homage to Peredur.  And Peredur
inquired of them, wherefore they were there.  And they told him they were guarding the serpent
until he should die.  "For then should we fight for the stone among ourselves, and whoever
should be conqueror among us would have the stone."  "Await here," said Peredur, "and I will
go to encounter the serpent."  "Not so, lord," said they; "we will go altogether to encounter
the serpent."  "Verily," said Peredur, "that will I not permit; for if the serpent be slain,
I shall derive no more fame therefrom than one of you."  Then he went to the place where the
serpent was, and slew it, and came back to them, and said, "Reckon up what you have spent since
you have been here, and I will repay you to the full."  And he paid to each what he said was
his claim.  And he required of them only that they should acknowledge themselves his vassals.
And he said to Etlym, "Go back unto her whom thou lovest best, and I will go forwards, and
I will reward thee for having been my attendant."  And he gave Etlym the stone.  "Heaven repay
thee and prosper thee," said Etlym.

And Peredur rode thence, and he came to the fairest valley he had ever seen, through which
ran a river; and there he beheld many tents of various colours.  And he marvelled still more
at the number of water-mills and of wind-mills that he saw.  And there rode up with him a tall
auburn-haired man, in workman's garb, and Peredur inquired of him who he was.  "I am the chief
miller," said he, "of all the mills yonder."  "Wilt thou give me lodging?" said Peredur.  "I
will, gladly," he answered.  And Peredur came to the miller's house, and the miller had a fair
and pleasant dwelling.  And Peredur asked money as a loan from the miller, that he might buy
meat and liquor for himself and for the household, and he promised that he would pay him again
ere he went thence.  And he inquired of the miller, wherefore such a multitude was there assembled.
Said the miller to Peredur, "One thing is certain:  either thou art a man from afar, or thou
art beside thyself.  The Empress of Cristinobyl the Great is here; and she will have no one
but the man who is most valiant; for riches does she not require.  And it was impossible to
bring food for so many thousands as are here, therefore were all these mills constructed."
And that night they took their rest.

And the next day Peredur arose, and he equipped himself and his horse for the tournament. 
And among the other tents he beheld one, which was the fairest he had ever seen.  And he saw
a beauteous maiden leaning her head out of a window of the tent, and he had never seen a maiden
more lovely than she.  And upon her was a garment of satin. And he gazed fixedly on the maiden,
and began to love her greatly. And he remained there, gazing upon the maiden from morning until
mid- day, and from mid-day until evening; and then the tournament was ended and he went to
his lodging and drew off his armour.  Then he asked money of the miller as a loan, and the
miller's wife was wroth with Peredur; nevertheless, the miller lent him the money.  And the
next day he did in like manner as he had done the day before.  And at night he came to his
lodging, and took money as a loan from the miller.  And the third day, as he was in the same
place, gazing upon the maiden, he felt a hard blow between the neck and the shoulder, from
the edge of an axe.  And when he looked behind him, he saw that it was the miller; and the
miller said to him, "Do one of two things: either turn thy head from hence, or go to the tournament."
And Peredur smiled on the miller, and went to the tournament; and all that encountered him
that day he overthrew.  And as many as he vanquished he sent as a gift to the Empress, and
their horses and arms he sent as a gift to the wife of the miller, in payment of the borrowed
money.  Peredur attended the tournament until all were overthrown, and he sent all the men
to the prison of the Empress, and the horses and arms to the wife of the miller, in payment
of the borrowed money.  And the Empress sent to the Knight of the Mill, to ask him to come
and visit her.  And Peredur went not for the first nor for the second message.  And the third
time she sent a hundred knights to bring him against his will, and they went to him and told
him their mission from the Empress.  And Peredur fought well with them, and caused them to
be bound like stags, and thrown into the mill-dyke.  And the Empress sought advice of a wise
man who was in her counsel; and he said to her, "With thy permission, I will go to him myself."
So he came to Peredur, and saluted him, and besought him, for the sake of the lady of his love,
to come and visit the Empress.  And they went, together with the miller.  And Peredur went
and sat down in the outer chamber of the tent, and she came and placed herself by his side.
And there was but little discourse between them.  And Peredur took his leave, and went to his
lodging.

And the next day he came to visit her, and when he came into the tent there was no one chamber
less decorated than the others.  And they knew not where he would sit.  And Peredur went and
sat beside the Empress, and discoursed with her courteously.  And while they were thus, they
beheld a black man enter with a goblet full of wine in his hand.  And he dropped upon his knee
before the Empress, and besought her to give it to no one who would not fight with him for
it.  And she looked upon Peredur.  "Lady," said he, "bestow on me the goblet." And Peredur
drank the wine, and gave the goblet to the miller's wife. And while they were thus, behold
there entered a black man of larger stature than the other, with a wild beast's claw in his
hand, wrought into the form of a goblet and filled with wine.  And he presented it to the Empress,
and besought her to give it to no one but the man who would fight with him.  "Lady," said Peredur,
"bestow it on me."  And she gave it to him.  And Peredur drank the wine, and sent the goblet
to the wife of the miller.  And while they were thus, behold a rough- looking, crisp-haired
man, taller than either of the others, came in with a bowl in his hand full of wine; and he
bent upon his knee, and gave it into the hands of the Empress, and he besought her to give
it to none but him who would fight with him for it; and she gave it to Peredur, and he sent
it to the miller's wife.  And that night Peredur returned to his lodging; and the next day
he accoutred himself and his horse, and went to the meadow and slew the three men.  Then Peredur
proceeded to the tent, and the Empress said to him, "Goodly Peredur, remember the faith thou
didst pledge me when I gave thee the stone, and thou didst kill the Addanc."  "Lady," answered
he, "thou sayest truth, I do remember it."  And Peredur was entertained by the Empress fourteen
years, as the story relates.

Arthur was at Caerlleon upon Usk, his principal palace; and in the centre of the floor of the
hall were four men sitting on a carpet of velvet, Owain the son of Urien, and Gwalchmai the
son of Gwyar, and Howel the son of Emyr Llydaw, and Peredur of the long lance.  And thereupon
they saw a black curly-headed maiden enter, riding upon a yellow mule, with jagged thongs in
her hand to urge it on; and having a rough and hideous aspect.  Blacker were her face and her
two hands than the blackest iron covered with pitch; and her hue was not more frightful than
her form.  High cheeks had she, and a face lengthened downwards, and a short nose with distended
nostrils.  And one eye was of a piercing mottled grey, and the other was as black as jet, deep-
sunk in her head.  And her teeth were long and yellow, more yellow were they than the flower
of the broom.  And her stomach rose from the breast-bone, higher than her chin.  And her back
was in the shape of a crook, and her legs were large and bony.  And her figure was very thin
and spare, except her feet and her legs, which were of huge size.  And she greeted Arthur and
all his household except Peredur. And to Peredur she spoke harsh and angry words.  "Peredur,
I greet thee not, seeing that thou dost not merit it.  Blind was fate in giving thee fame and
favour.  When thou wast in the Court of the Lame King, and didst see there the youth bearing
the streaming spear, from the points of which were drops of blood flowing in streams, even
to the hand of the youth, and many other wonders likewise, thou didst not inquire their meaning
nor their cause.  Then said she unto Arthur, "May it please thee, lord, my dwelling is far
hence, in the stately castle of which thou hast heard, and therein are five hundred and sixty-six
knights of the order of Chivalry, and the lady whom best he loves with each; and whoever would
acquire fame in arms, and encounters, and conflicts, he will gain it there, if he deserve it.
And whoso would reach the summit of fame and of honour, I know where he may find it.  There
is a castle on a lofty mountain, and there is a maiden therein, and she is detained a prisoner
there, and whoever shall set her free will attain the summit of the fame of the world."  And
thereupon she rode away.

Said Gwalchmai, "By my faith, I will not rest tranquilly until I have proved if I can release
the maiden."  And many of Arthur's household joined themselves with him.  Then, likewise, said
Peredur, "By my faith, I will not rest tranquilly until I know the story and the meaning of
the lance whereof the black maiden spoke."  And while they were equipping themselves, behold
a knight came to the gate.  And he had the size and the strength of a warrior, and was equipped
with arms and habiliments.  And he went forward, and saluted Arthur and all his household,
except Gwalchmai.  And the knight had upon his shoulder a shield, ingrained with gold, with
a fesse of azure blue upon it, and his whole armour was of the same hue.  And he said to Gwalchmai,
"Thou didst slay my lord by thy treachery and deceit, and that will I prove upon thee."  Then
Gwalchmai rose up.  "Behold," said he, "here is my gage against thee, to maintain, either in
this place or wherever else thou wilt, that I am not a traitor or deceiver."  "Before the King
whom I obey, will I that my encounter with thee take place," said the knight.  "Willingly,"
said Gwalchmai; "go forward, and I will follow thee."  So the knight went forth, and Gwalchmai
accoutred himself, and there was offered unto him abundance of armour, but he would take none
but his own.  And when Gwalchmai and Peredur were equipped, they set forth to follow him, by
reason of their fellowship and of the great friendship that was between them. And they did
not go after him in company together, but each went his own way.

At the dawn of day Gwalchmai came to a valley, and in the valley he saw a fortress, and within
the fortress a vast palace and lofty towers around it.  And he beheld a knight coming out to
hunt from the other side, mounted on a spirited black snorting palfrey, that advanced at a
prancing pace, proudly stepping, and nimbly bounding, and sure of foot; and this was the man
to whom the palace belonged. And Gwalchmai saluted him.  "Heaven prosper thee, chieftain,"
said he, "and whence comest thou?"  "I come," answered Gwalchmai, "from the Court of Arthur."
"And art thou Arthur's vassal?"  "Yes, by my faith," said Gwalchmai.  "I will give thee good
counsel," said the knight.  "I see that thou art tired and weary; go unto my palace, if it
may please thee, and tarry there to-night."  "Willingly, lord," said he, "and Heaven reward
thee."  "Take this ring as a token to the porter, and go forward to yonder tower, and therein
thou wilt find my sister."  And Gwalchmai went to the gate, and showed the ring, and proceeded
to the tower.  And on entering he beheld a large blazing fire, burning without smoke and with
a bright and lofty flame, and a beauteous and stately maiden was sitting on a chair by the
fire.  And the maiden was glad at his coming, and welcomed him, and advanced to meet him. 
And he went and sat beside the maiden, and they took their repast.  And when their repast was
over, they discoursed pleasantly together.  And while they were thus, behold there entered
a venerable hoary-headed man.  "Ah! base girl," said he, "if thou didst think it was right
for thee to entertain and to sit by yonder man, thou wouldest not do so."  And he withdrew
his head, and went forth.  "Ah! chieftain," said the maiden, "if thou wilt do as I counsel
thee, thou wilt shut the door, lest the man should have a plot against thee." Upon that Gwalchmai
arose, and when he came near unto the door, the man, with sixty others, fully armed, were ascending
the tower.  And Gwalchmai defended the door with a chessboard, that none might enter until
the man should return from the chase.  And thereupon, behold the Earl arrived.  "What is all
this?" asked he.  "It is a sad thing," said the hoary-headed man; "the young girl yonder has
been sitting and eating with him who slew your father.  He is Gwalchmai, the son of Gwyar."
"Hold thy peace, then," said the Earl, "I will go in."  And the Earl was joyful concerning
Gwalchmai.  "Ha! chieftain," said he, "it was wrong of thee to come to my court, when thou
knewest that thou didst slay my father; and though we cannot avenge him, Heaven will avenge
him upon thee."  "My soul," said Gwalchmai, "thus it is:  I came not here either to acknowledge
or to deny having slain thy father; but I am on a message from Arthur, and therefore do I crave
the space of a year until I shall return from my embassy, and then, upon my faith, I will come
back unto this palace, and do one of two things, either acknowledge it, or deny it."  And the
time was granted him willingly; and he remained there that night.  And the next morning he
rode forth.  And the story relates nothing further of Gwalchmai respecting this adventure.

And Peredur rode forward.  And he wandered over the whole island, seeking tidings of the black
maiden, and he could meet with none. And he came to an unknown land, in the centre of a valley,
watered by a river.  And as he traversed the valley he beheld a horseman coming towards him,
and wearing the garments of a priest; and he besought his blessing.  "Wretched man," said he,
"thou meritest no blessing, and thou wouldest not be profited by one, seeing that thou art
clad in armour on such a day as this."  "And what day is to-day?" said Peredur.  "To-day is
Good Friday," he answered.  "Chide me not that I knew not this, seeing that it is a year to-day
since I journeyed forth from my country."  Then he dismounted, and led his horse in his hand.
And he had not proceeded far along the high road before he came to a cross road, and the cross
road traversed a wood.  And on the other side of the wood he saw an unfortified castle, which
appeared to be inhabited.  And at the gate of the castle there met him the priest whom he had
seen before, and he asked his blessing. "The blessing of Heaven be unto thee," said he, "it
is more fitting to travel in thy present guise than as thou wast erewhile; and this night thou
shalt tarry with me."  So he remained there that night.

And the next day Peredur sought to go forth.  "To-day may no one journey.  Thou shalt remain
with me to-day and to-morrow, and the day following, and I will direct thee as best I may to
the place which thou art seeking."  And the fourth day Peredur sought to go forth, and he entreated
the priest to tell him how he should find the Castle of Wonders.  "What I know thereof I will
tell thee," he replied.  "Go over yonder mountain, and on the other side of the mountain thou
wilt come to a river, and in the valley wherein the river runs is a King's palace, wherein
the King sojourned during Easter.  And if thou mayest have tidings anywhere of the Castle of
Wonders, thou wilt have them there."

Then Peredur rode forward.  And he came to the valley in which was the river, and there met
him a number of men going to hunt, and in the midst of them was a man of exalted rank, and
Peredur saluted him. "Choose, chieftain," said the man, "whether thou wilt go with me to the
chase, or wilt proceed to my palace, and I will dispatch one of my household to commend thee
to my daughter, who is there, and who will entertain thee with food and liquor until I return
from hunting; and whatever may be thine errand, such as I can obtain for thee thou shalt gladly
have."  And the King sent a little yellow page with him as an attendant; and when they came
to the palace the lady had arisen, and was about to wash before meat.  Peredur went forward,
and she saluted him joyfully, and placed him by her side.  And they took their repast.  And
whatsoever Peredur said unto her, she laughed loudly, so that all in the palace could hear.
Then spoke the yellow page to the lady.  "By my faith," said he, "this youth is already thy
husband; or if he be not, thy mind and thy thoughts are set upon him."  And the little yellow
page went unto the King, and told him that it seemed to him that the youth whom he had met
with was his daughter's husband, or if he were not so already that he would shortly become
so unless he were cautious.  "What is thy counsel in this matter, youth?" said the King.  "My
counsel is," he replied, "that thou set strong men upon him, to seize him, until thou hast
ascertained the truth respecting this."  So he set strong men upon Peredur, who seized him
and cast him into prison.  And the maiden went before her father, and asked him wherefore he
had caused the youth from Arthur's Court to be imprisoned.  "In truth," he answered, "he shall
not be free to-night, nor to-morrow, nor the day following, and he shall not come from where
he is."  She replied not to what the King had said, but she went to the youth.  "Is it unpleasant
to thee to be here?" said she.  "I should not care if I were not," he replied.  "Thy couch
and thy treatment shall be in no wise inferior to that of the King himself, and thou shalt
have the best entertainment that the palace affords.  And if it were more pleasing to thee
that my couch should be here, that I might discourse with thee, it should be so, cheerfully."
"This can I not refuse," said Peredur.  And he remained in prison that night.  And the maiden
provided all that she had promised him.

And the next day Peredur heard a tumult in the town.  "Tell me, fair maiden, what is that tumult?"
said Peredur.  "All the King's hosts and his forces have come to the town to-day."  "And what
seek they here?" he inquired.  "There is an Earl near this place who possesses two Earldoms,
and is as powerful as a King; and an engagement will take place between them to-day."  "I beseech
thee," said Peredur, "to cause a horse and arms to be brought, that I may view the encounter,
and I promise to come back to my prison again."  "Gladly," said she, "will I provide thee with
horse and arms."  So she gave him a horse and arms, and a bright scarlet robe of honour over
his armour, and a yellow shield upon his shoulder.  And he went to the combat; and as many
of the Earl's men as encountered him that day he overthrew; and he returned to his prison.
And the maiden asked tidings of Peredur, and he answered her not a word.  And she went and
asked tidings of her father, and inquired who had acquitted himself best of the household.
And he said that he knew not, but that it was a man with a scarlet robe of honour over his
armour, and a yellow shield upon his shoulder.  Then she smiled, and returned to where Peredur
was, and did him great honour that night.  And for three days did Peredur slay the Earl's men;
and before any one could know who he was, he returned to his prison.  And the fourth day Peredur
slew the Earl himself.  And the maiden went unto her father, and inquired of him the news.
"I have good news for thee," said the King; "the Earl is slain, and I am the owner of his two
Earldoms."  "Knowest thou, lord, who slew him?"  "I do not know," said the King.  "It was the
knight with the scarlet robe of honour and the yellow shield."  "Lord," said she, "I know who
that is."  "By Heaven!" he exclaimed, "who is he?" "Lord," she replied, "he is the knight whom
thou hast imprisoned." Then he went unto Peredur, and saluted him, and told him that he would
reward the service he had done him, in any way he might desire. And when they went to meat,
Peredur was placed beside the King, and the maiden on the other side of Peredur.  "I will give
thee," said the King, "my daughter in marriage, and half my kingdom with her, and the two Earldoms
as a gift."  "Heaven reward thee, lord," said Peredur, "but I came not here to woo."  "What
seekest thou then, chieftain?"  "I am seeking tidings of the Castle of Wonders."  "Thy enterprise
is greater, chieftain, than thou wilt wish to pursue," said the maiden, "nevertheless, tidings
shalt thou have of the Castle, and thou shalt have a guide through my father's dominions, and
a sufficiency of provisions for thy journey, for thou art, O chieftain, the man whom best I
love."  Then she said to him, "Go over yonder mountain, and thou wilt find a lake, and in the
middle of the lake there is a Castle, and that is the Castle that is called the Castle of Wonders;
and we know not what wonders are therein, but thus is it called."

And Peredur proceeded towards the Castle, and the gate of the Castle was open.  And when he
came to the hall, the door was open, and he entered.  And he beheld a chessboard in the hall,
and the chessmen were playing against each other, by themselves.  And the side that he favoured
lost the game, and thereupon the others set up a shout, as though they had been living men.
And Peredur was wroth, and took the chessmen in his lap, and cast the chessboard into the lake.
And when he had done thus, behold the black maiden came in, and she said to him, "The welcome
of Heaven be not unto thee.  Thou hadst rather do evil than good."  "What complaint hast thou
against me, maiden?" said Peredur.  "That thou hast occasioned unto the Empress the loss of
her chessboard, which she would not have lost for all her empire.  And the way in which thou
mayest recover the chessboard is, to repair to the Castle of Ysbidinongyl, where is a black
man, who lays waste the dominions of the Empress; and if thou canst slay him, thou wilt recover
the chessboard.  But if thou goest there, thou wilt not return alive."  "Wilt thou direct me
thither?" said Peredur.  "I will show thee the way," she replied.  So he went to the Castle
of Ysbidinongyl, and he fought with the black man.  And the black man besought mercy of Peredur.
"Mercy will I grant thee," said he, "on condition that thou cause the chessboard to be restored
to the place where it was when I entered the hall."  Then the maiden came to him, and said,
"The malediction of Heaven attend thee for thy work, since thou hast left that monster alive,
who lays waste all the possessions of the Empress."  "I granted him his life," said Peredur,
"that he might cause the chessboard to be restored."  "The chessboard is not in the place where
thou didst find it; go back, therefore, and slay him," answered she.  So Peredur went back,
and slew the black man. And when he returned to the palace, he found the black maiden there.
"Ah! maiden," said Peredur, "where is the Empress?"  "I declare to Heaven that thou wilt not
see her now, unless thou dost slay the monster that is in yonder forest."  "What monster is
there?"  "It is a stag that is as swift as the swiftest bird; and he has one horn in his forehead,
as long as the shaft of a spear, and as sharp as whatever is sharpest.  And he destroys the
branches of the best trees in the forest, and he kills every animal that he meets with therein;
and those that he doth not slay perish of hunger.  And what is worse than that, he comes every
night, and drinks up the fish-pond, and leaves the fishes exposed, so that for the most part
they die before the water returns again."  "Maiden," said Peredur, "wilt thou come and show
me this animal?"  "Not so," said the maiden, "for he has not permitted any mortal to enter
the forest for above a twelvemonth. Behold, here is a little dog belonging to the Empress,
which will rouse the stag, and will chase him towards thee, and the stag will attack thee."
Then the little dog went as a guide to Peredur, and roused the stag, and brought him towards
the place where Peredur was. And the stag attacked Peredur, and he let him pass by him, and
as he did so, he smote off his head with his sword.  And while he was looking at the head of
the stag, he saw a lady on horseback coming towards him.  And she took the little dog in the
lappet of her cap, and the head and the body of the stag lay before her.  And around the stag's
neck was a golden collar.  "Ha! chieftain," said she, "uncourteously hast thou acted in slaying
the fairest jewel that was in my dominions."  "I was entreated so to do; and is there any way
by which I can obtain thy friendship?"  "There is," she replied.  "Go thou forward unto yonder
mountain, and there thou wilt find a grove; and in the grove there is a cromlech; do thou there
challenge a man three times to fight, and thou shalt have my friendship."

So Peredur proceeded onward, and came to the side of the grove, and challenged any man to fight.
And a black man arose from beneath the cromlech, mounted upon a bony horse, and both he and
his horse were clad in huge rusty armour.  And they fought.  And as often as Peredur cast the
black man to the earth, he would jump again into his saddle. And Peredur dismounted, and drew
his sword; and thereupon the black man disappeared with Peredur's horse and his own, so that
he could not gain sight of him a second time.  And Peredur went along the mountain, and on
the other side of the mountain he beheld a castle in the valley, wherein was a river.  And
he went to the castle; and as he entered it, he saw a hall, and the door of the hall was open,
and he went in.  And there he saw a lame grey-headed man sitting on one side of the hall, with
Gwalchmai beside him.  And Peredur beheld his horse, which the black man had taken, in the
same stall with that of Gwalchmai.  And they were glad concerning Peredur.  And he went and
seated himself on the other side of the hoary-headed man.  Then, behold a yellow-haired youth
came, and bent upon the knee before Peredur, and besought his friendship.  "Lord," said the
youth, "it was I that came in the form of the black maiden to Arthur's Court, and when thou
didst throw down the chessboard, and when thou didst slay the black man of Ysbidinongyl, and
when thou didst slay the stag, and when thou didst go to fight the black man of the cromlech.
And there is a prediction that thou art to avenge these things."  Then Peredur and Gwalchmai
took counsel, and sent to Arthur and his household, to beseech them to come against the sorceresses.
And they began to fight with them; and one of the sorceresses slew one of Arthur's men before
Peredur's face, and Peredur bade her forbear.  And the sorceress slew a man before Peredur's
face a second time, and a second time he forbad her.  And the third time the sorceress slew
a man before the face of Peredur; and then Peredur drew his sword, and smote the sorceress
on the helmet; and all her head-armour was split in two parts.  And she set up a cry, and desired
the other sorceresses to flee, and told them that this was Peredur, the man who had learnt
Chivalry with them, and by whom they were destined to be slain.  Then Arthur and his household
fell upon the sorceresses, and slew the sorceresses of Gloucester every one. And thus is it
related concerning the Castle of Wonders.

Glewlwyd Gavaelvawr was the chief porter; but he did not himself perform the office, except
at one of the three high festivals, for he had seven men to serve him, and they divided the
year amongst them. They were Grynn, and Pen Pighon, and Llaes Cymyn, and Gogyfwlch, and Gwrdnei
with cat's eyes, who could see as well by night as by day, and Drem the son of Dremhitid, and
Clust the son of Clustveinyd; and these were Arthur's guards.  "I know thee not," said Arthur.
"It is a marvel to me that thou dost not know me.  I am one of thy foresters, Lord, in the
Forest of Dean, and my name is Madawc, the son of Twrgadarn."  "Tell me thine errand," said
Arthur.  "I will do so, Lord," said he. And they sent the youth before them.  "Then will I
go," said she.  And his horse stepped stately, and swift, and proud; and he overtook Gwenhwyvar,
and saluted her.  "Heaven prosper thee, Geraint," said she, "I knew thee when first I saw thee
just now.  And the welcome of Heaven be unto thee.  "Indeed, lady," said he.  And truly they
never before saw a knight, or a horse, or armour, of such remarkable size.  And they were all
near to each other.

"Thou hast acted wisely and discreetly," said she.  And they came to the extremity of the town.
And as he knew not any one in the town, he went towards the old palace; and when he came near
to the palace, he saw but one chamber, and a bridge of marble-stone leading to it.  And upon
the bridge he saw sitting a hoary-headed man, upon whom were tattered garments.  And Geraint
gazed steadfastly upon him for a long time.  Then the hoary-headed man spoke to him.  "Young
man," he said, "wherefore art thou thoughtful?"  So he made war upon me, and wrested from me
all that I possessed."  "Fetch it not," said Geraint, "for there is here a maiden, who is fairer,
and more noble, and more comely, and who has a better claim to it than thou."  And thus they
did at every onset, and they broke as many lances as were brought to them.  And when Geraint
prevailed, the hoary-headed man, and his wife, and his daughter were glad; and when the knight
prevailed, it rejoiced the Earl and his party.  Then the hoary-headed man saw Geraint receive
a severe stroke, and he went up to him quickly, and said to him, "Oh, chieftain, remember the
treatment which thou hadst from the dwarf; and wilt thou not seek vengeance for the insult
to thyself, and for the insult to Gwenhwyvar the wife of Arthur!"  As to myself, for the insult
which I received from thee and thy dwarf, I am content with that which I have done unto thee.
And thus far this story up to that time.  And they ate.  And the next day they proceeded to
Arthur's Court.  So far concerning Geraint.

Then came Kadyrieith to Arthur, and spoke to him.  And all they of the household, and the knights,
disputed sharply concerning the head.  And with that they came to the palace.  And Gwenhwyvar
told Arthur what that errand was. "Right gladly shall it be so," said Arthur.  And thus it
was settled. And the next day Gwenhwyvar caused a watch to be set upon the ramparts for Geraint's
coming.

And before they came near to the gate, one of the watch went to Gwenhwyvar, and told her what
kind of people they saw, and what aspect they bore.  "I know not who they are," said he.  "Knowest
thou his name?" said she.  "I do," said he; "he tells me that he is Edeyrn the son of Nudd."
Then she replied, "I know him not."

So Gwenhwyvar went to the gate to meet him, and he entered.  And Gwenhwyvar was sorry when
she saw the condition he was in, even though he was accompanied by the churlish dwarf.  Then
Edeyrn saluted Gwenhwyvar.  He forgives the insult to himself, in consideration of his having
put me in peril of my life.  And he imposed on me a condition, manly, and honourable, and warrior-like,
which was to do thee justice, Lady."  And there were none with him save three persons, of a
mean and tattered condition.  And these were an aged, hoary-headed man, and a woman advanced
in years, and a fair young maiden, clad in worn-out garments.  And it was for the avouchment
of the love of that maiden that Geraint jousted for the Sparrow-Hawk at the tournament, for
he said that that maiden was better entitled to the Sparrow-Hawk than this maiden who was with
me.  And if he die, too much will be the death of such a youth as Edeyrn for an insult to a
maiden."  "This pleases me," said Gwenhwyvar.  And Arthur became surety for Edeyrn, and Caradawc
the son of Llyr, Gwallawg the son of Llenawg, and Owain the son of Nudd, and Gwalchmai, and
many others with them.  "To Gwenhwyvar and her handmaidens," said he.  And the steward of the
household so ordered her.  Thus far concerning them.

The next day came Geraint towards the Court; and there was a watch set on the ramparts by Gwenhwyvar,
lest he should arrive unawares. And one of the watch came to the place where Gwenhwyvar was.
And Gwenhwyvar went to meet Geraint and the maiden.  And when Geraint came to the place where
Gwenhwyvar was, he saluted her.  "Heaven prosper thee," said she, "and welcome to thee.  And
thy career has been successful, and fortunate, and resistless, and glorious.  And Heaven reward
thee, that thou hast so proudly caused me to have retribution."  I would not quit him until
I knew who he was, and until the one had vanquished the other."  "Now," said Arthur, "where
is the maiden for whom I heard thou didst give challenge?"  And when it was time for them to
go to sleep, they went.  And in the chamber where the couch of Arthur and Gwenhwyvar was, the
couch of Geraint and Enid was prepared.  And from that time she became his bride.  And whence
do you come?"  Said Geraint, "I think that I shall have enough of knighthood with me."  "Yes,"
said Arthur, "but it will not be fitting for thee to take Edeyrn with thee, although he is
well, until peace shall be made between him and Gwenhwyvar."  "Gwenhwyvar can permit him to
go with me, if he give sureties."  "If she please, she can let him go without sureties, for
enough of pain and affliction has he suffered for the insult which the maiden received from
the dwarf." "Truly," said Gwenhwyvar, "since it seems well to thee and to Geraint, I will do
this gladly, Lord."  Then she permitted Edeyrn freely to depart. So he received the homage
of such as were there.  And they remained with him till the third night.  And for a long time
he abode at home.  Then they went forward through the forest; and when they left the forest,
they came to a vast plain, in the centre of which was a group of thickly tangled copse-wood;
and from out thereof they beheld three horsemen coming towards them, well equipped with armour,
both they and their horses.  Then the maiden looked steadfastly upon them; and when they had
come near, she heard them say one to another, "Behold, here is a good arrival for us; here
are coming for us four horses and four suits of armour.  We shall easily obtain them spite
of yonder dolorous knight, and the maiden also will fall into our power." "This is but too
true," said she to herself, "for my husband is tired with his former combat.  The vengeance
of Heaven will be upon me, unless I warn him of this."  So the maiden waited until Geraint
came up to her.  "Lord," said she, "dust thou not hear the discourse of yonder men concerning
thee?"  "What was it?" asked he.  "They say to one another, that they will easily obtain all
this spoil."  "I declare to Heaven," he answered, "that their words are less grievous to me
than that thou wilt not be silent, and abide by my counsel." "My Lord," said she, "I feared
lest they should surprise thee unawares."  "Hold thy peace, then," said he, "do not I desire
silence?"  And thereupon one of the horsemen couched his lance, and attacked Geraint.  And
he made a thrust at him, which he thought would be very effective; but Geraint received it
carelessly, and struck it aside, and then he rushed upon him, and aimed at the centre of his
person, and from the shock of man and horse, the quantity of his armour did not avail him,
and the head of the lance and part of the shaft passed through him, so that he was carried
to the ground an arm and a spear's length over the crupper of his horse.  And both the other
horsemen came forward in their turn, but their onset was not more successful than that of their
companion.  And the maiden stood by, looking at all this; and on the one hand she was in trouble
lest Geraint should be wounded in his encounter with the men, and on the other hand she was
joyful to see him victorious.  Then Geraint dismounted, and bound the three suits of armour
upon the three saddles, and he fastened the reins of all the horses together, so that he had
seven horses with him.  And he mounted his own horse, and commanded the maiden to drive forward
the others.  "It is no more use for me to speak to thee than to refrain, for thou wilt not
attend to my advice."  "I will do so, as far as I am able, Lord," said she; "but I cannot conceal
from thee the fierce and threatening words which I may hear against thee, Lord, from such strange
people as those that haunt this wilderness."  "I declare to Heaven," said he, "that I desire
nought but silence; therefore, hold thy peace."  "I will, Lord, while I can."  And the maiden
went on with the horses before her, and she pursued her way straight onwards.  And from the
copse-wood already mentioned, they journeyed over a vast and dreary open plain.  And at a great
distance from them they beheld a wood, and they could see neither end nor boundary to the wood,
except on that side that was nearest to them, and they went towards it.  Then there came from
out the wood five horsemen, eager, and bold, and mighty, and strong, mounted upon chargers
that were powerful, and large of bone, and high-mettled, and proudly snorting, and both the
men and the horses were well equipped with arms.  And when they drew near to them, Enid heard
them say, "Behold, here is a fine booty coming to us, which we shall obtain easily and without
labour, for we shall have no trouble in taking all those horses and arms, and the lady also,
from yonder single knight, so doleful and sad."

Sorely grieved was the maiden upon hearing this discourse, so that she knew not in the world
what she should do.  At last, however, she determined to warn Geraint; so she turned her horse's
head towards him.  "Lord," said she, "if thou hadst heard as I did what yonder horsemen said
concerning thee, thy heaviness would be greater than it is."  Angrily and bitterly did Geraint
smile upon her, and he said, "Thee do I hear doing everything that I forbade thee; but it may
be that thou will repent this yet."  And immediately, behold, the men met them, and victoriously
and gallantly did Geraint overcome them all five.  And he placed the five suits of armour upon
the five saddles, and tied together the reins of the twelve horses, and gave them in charge
to Enid.  "I know not," said he, "what good it is for me to order thee; but this time I charge
thee in an especial manner."  "My Lord," she said, "I have desired to awake thee for some time."
But he spake nothing to her about fatigue, as he had desired her to be silent.  Then he arose,
and said unto her, "Take the horses, and ride on; and keep straight on before thee as thou
didst yesterday."  "Oh, chieftain," he said, "hast thou taken thy meal?"  "I have," said he.
Then the youth spoke to him, and inquired if he would not drink something before he met the
Earl. "Truly I will," said he.  So the youth went into the town, and brought them drink.  And
they drank.  "I must needs sleep," said Geraint.  "Well," said the youth; "and whilst thou
sleepest, I will go to see the Earl."  "Go, gladly," he said, "and come here again when I require
thee."  And Geraint went to sleep; and so did Enid also.

And the youth came to the place where the Earl was, and the Earl asked him where the lodgings
of the knight were, and he told him.  "I must go," said the youth, "to wait on him in the evening."
"Go," answered the Earl, "and greet him well from me, and tell him that in the evening I will
go to see him."  "This will I do," said the youth. So he came when it was time for them to
awake.  And they arose, and went forth.  And when it was time for them to take their food,
they took it.  And the youth served them.  And Geraint inquired of the man of the house, whether
there were any of his companions that he wished to invite to him, and he said that there were.
"Bring them hither, and entertain them at my cost with the best thou canst buy in the town."

And the man of the house brought there those whom he chose, and feasted them at Geraint's expense.
Thereupon, behold, the Earl came to visit Geraint, and his twelve honourable knights with him.
And Geraint rose up, and welcomed him.  "Heaven preserve thee," said the Earl.  Then they all
sat down according to their precedence in honour.  "Take the eleven horses and the eleven suits
of armour."  And he had only just reached his house, when, behold, the greatest tumult approached
that was ever heard.  And when he looked out, he saw fourscore knights in complete armour around
the house, with the Earl Dwnn at their head.  "Where is the knight that was here?" said the
Earl.  "By thy hand," said he, "he went hence some time ago."  "Wherefore, villain," said he,
"didst thou let him go without informing me?"  "My Lord, thou didst not command me to do so,
else would I not have allowed him to depart." "What way dost thou think that he took?"  "I
know not, except that he went along the high road."  And they turned their horses' heads that
way, and seeing the tracks of the horses upon the high road, they followed.  And when the maiden
beheld the dawning of the day, she looked behind her, and saw vast clouds of dust coming nearer
and nearer to her.  And thereupon she became uneasy, and she thought that it was the Earl and
his host coming after them.  And thereupon she beheld a knight appearing through the mist.
"By my faith," said she, "though he should slay me, it were better for me to receive my death
at his hands, than to see him killed without warning him.  My Lord," she said to him, "seest
thou yonder man hastening after thee, and many others with him?"  "I do see him," said he;
"and in despite of all my orders, I see that thou wilt never keep silence."  Then he turned
upon the knight, and with the first thrust he threw him down under his horse's feet.  And as
long as there remained one of the fourscore knights, he overthrew every one of them at the
first onset. And from the weakest to the strongest, they all attacked him one after the other,
except the Earl:  and last of all the Earl came against him also.  And he broke his lance,
and then he broke a second.  But Geraint turned upon him, and struck him with his lance upon
the centre of his shield, so that by that single thrust the shield was split, and all his armour
broken, and he himself was brought over his horse's crupper to the ground, and was in peril
of his life.  And Geraint drew near to him; and at the noise of the trampling of his horse
the Earl revived.  "Mercy, Lord," said he to Geraint.  And Geraint granted him mercy.  But
through the hardness of the ground where they had fallen, and the violence of the stroke which
they had received, there was not a single knight amongst them that escaped without receiving
a fall, mortally severe, and grievously painful, and desperately wounding, from the hand of
Geraint.

And Geraint journeyed along the high road that was before him, and the maiden went on first;
and near them they beheld a valley which was the fairest ever seen, and which had a large river
running through it; and there was a bridge over the river, and the high road led to the bridge.
And above the bridge upon the opposite side of the river, they beheld a fortified town, the
fairest ever seen.  And as they approached the bridge, Geraint saw coming towards him from
a thick copse a man mounted upon a large and lofty steed, even of pace and spirited though
tractable.  "Ah, knight," said Geraint, "whence comest thou?"  "I come," said he, "from the
valley below us."  "Canst thou tell me," said Geraint, "who is the owner of this fair valley
and yonder walled town?"  "I will tell thee, willingly," said he. "Gwiffert Petit he is called
by the Franks, but the Cymry call him the Little King."  "Can I go by yonder bridge," said
Geraint, "and by the lower highway that is beneath the town?"  Said the knight, "Thou canst
not go by his tower on the other side of the bridge, unless thou dost intend to combat him;
because it is his custom to encounter every knight that comes upon his lands."  "I declare
to Heaven," said Geraint, "that I will, nevertheless, pursue my journey that way." "If thou
dost so," said the knight, "thou wilt probably meet with shame and disgrace in reward for thy
daring."  Then Geraint proceeded along the road that led to the town, and the road brought
him to a ground that was hard, and rugged, and high, and ridgy.  And as he journeyed thus,
he beheld a knight following him upon a warhorse, strong, and large, and proudly-stepping,
and wide-hoofed, and broad- chested.  And he never saw a man of smaller stature than he who
was upon the horse.  And both he and his horse were completely armed. When he had overtaken
Geraint, he said to him, "Tell me, chieftain, whether it is through ignorance or through presumption
that thou seekest to insult my dignity, and to infringe my rules."  "Nay," answered Geraint,
"I knew not this road was forbid to any."  "Thou didst know it," said the other; "come with
me to my Court, to give me satisfaction."  "That will I not, by my faith," said Geraint; "I
would not go even to thy Lord's Court, excepting Arthur were thy Lord."  "By the hand of Arthur
himself," said the knight, "I will have satisfaction of thee, or receive my overthrow at thy
hands." And immediately they charged one another.  And a squire of his came to serve him with
lances as he broke them.  And they gave each other such hard and severe strokes that their
shields lost all their colour.  But it was very difficult for Geraint to fight with him on
account of his small size, for he was hardly able to get a full aim at him with all the efforts
he could make.  And they fought thus until their horses were brought down upon their knees;
and at length Geraint threw the knight headlong to the ground; and then they fought on foot,
and they gave one another blows so boldly fierce, so frequent, and so severely powerful, that
their helmets were pierced, and their skullcaps were broken, and their arms were shattered,
and the light of their eyes was darkened by sweat and blood.  At the last Geraint became enraged,
and he called to him all his strength; and boldly angry, and swiftly resolute, and furiously
determined, he lifted up his sword, and struck him on the crown of his head a blow so mortally
painful, so violent, so fierce, and so penetrating, that it cut through all his head armour,
and his skin, and his flesh, until it wounded the very bone, and the sword flew out of the
hand of the Little King to the furthest end of the plain, and he besought Geraint that he would
have mercy and compassion upon him.  "Though thou hast been neither courteous nor just," said
Geraint, "thou shalt have mercy, upon condition that thou wilt become my ally, and engage never
to fight against me again, but to come to my assistance whenever thou hearest of my being in
trouble."  "This will I do, gladly, Lord," said he.  So he pledged him his faith thereof. 
"And now, Lord, come with me," said he, "to my Court yonder, to recover from thy weariness
and fatigue."  "That will I not, by Heaven," said he.

Then Gwiffert Petit beheld Enid where she stood, and it grieved him to see one of her noble
mien appear so deeply afflicted.  And he said to Geraint, "My Lord, thou doest wrong not to
take repose, and refresh thyself awhile; for, if thou meetest with any difficulty in thy present
condition, it will not be easy for thee to surmount it." But Geraint would do no other than
proceed on his journey, and he mounted his horse in pain, and all covered with blood.  And
the maiden went on first, and they proceeded towards the wood which they saw before them.

And the heat of the sun was very great, and through the blood and sweat, Geraint's armour cleaved
to his flesh; and when they came into the wood, he stood under a tree, to avoid the sun's heat;
and his wounds pained him more than they had done at the time when he received them.  And the
maiden stood under another tree.  And lo! they heard the sound of horns, and a tumultuous noise;
and the occasion of it was, that Arthur and his company had come down to the wood.  And while
Geraint was considering which way he should go to avoid them, behold, he was espied by a foot-page,
who was an attendant on the Steward of the Household; and he went to the Steward, and told
him what kind of man he had seen in the wood.  Then the Steward caused his horse to be saddled,
and he took his lance and his shield, and went to the place where Geraint was.  "Ah, knight!"
said he, "what dost thou here?"  "I am standing under a shady tree, to avoid the heat and the
rays of the sun."  "Wherefore is thy journey, and who art thou?"  "I seek adventures, and go
where I list."  "Indeed," said Kai; "then come with me to see Arthur, who is here hard by."
"That will I not, by Heaven," said Geraint.  "Thou must needs come," said Kai.  Then Geraint
knew who he was, but Kai did not know Geraint.  And Kai attacked Geraint as best he could.
And Geraint became wroth, and he struck him with the shaft of his lance, so that he rolled
headlong to the ground.  But chastisement worse than this would he not inflict on him.

Scared and wildly Kai arose, and he mounted his horse, and went back to his lodging.  And thence
he proceeded to Gwalchmai's tent.  "Oh, Sir," said he to Gwalchmai, "I was told by one of the
attendants, that he saw in the wood above a wounded knight, having on battered armour; and
if thou dost right, thou wilt go and see if this be true."  "I care not if I do so," said Gwalchmai.
"Take, then, thy horse, and some of thy armour," said Kai; "for I hear that he is not over
courteous to those who approach him."  So Gwalchmai took his spear and his shield, and mounted
his horse, and came to the spot where Geraint was.  "Sir Knight," said he, "wherefore is thy
journey?"  "I journey for my own pleasure, and to seek the adventures of the world."  "Wilt
thou tell me who thou art; or wilt thou come and visit Arthur, who is near at hand?"  "I will
make no alliance with thee, nor will I go and visit Arthur," said he.  And he knew that it
was Gwalchmai, but Gwalchmai knew him not.  "I purpose not to leave thee," said Gwalchmai,
"till I know who thou art."  And he charged him with his lance, and struck him on his shield,
so that the shaft was shivered into splinters, and their horses were front to front.  Then
Gwalchmai gazed fixedly upon him, and he knew him.  "Ah, Geraint," said he, "is it thou that
art here?"  "I am not Geraint," said he.  "Geraint thou art, by Heaven," he replied, "and a
wretched and insane expedition is this."  Then he looked around, and beheld Enid, and he welcomed
her gladly.  "Geraint," said Gwalchmai, "come thou and see Arthur; he is thy lord and thy cousin."
"I will not," said he, "for I am not in a fit state to go and see any one." Thereupon, behold,
one of the pages came after Gwalchmai to speak to him.  So he sent him to apprise Arthur that
Geraint was there wounded, and that he would not go to visit him, and that it was pitiable
to see the plight that he was in.  And this he did without Geraint's knowledge, inasmuch as
he spoke in a whisper to the page. "Entreat Arthur," said he, "to have his tent brought near
to the road, for he will not meet him willingly, and it is not easy to compel him in the mood
he is in."  So the page came to Arthur, and told him this.  And he caused his tent to be removed
unto the side of the road.  And the maiden rejoiced in her heart.  And Gwalchmai led Geraint
onwards along the road, till they came to the place where Arthur was encamped, and the pages
were pitching his tent by the roadside.  "Lord," said Geraint, "all hail unto thee."  "Heaven
prosper thee; and who art thou?" said Arthur.  "It is Geraint," said Gwalchmai, "and of his
own free will would he not come to meet thee." "Verily," said Arthur, "he is bereft of his
reason."  Then came Enid, and saluted Arthur.  "Heaven protect thee," said he.  And thereupon
he caused one of the pages to take her from her horse.  "Alas! Enid," said Arthur, "what expedition
is this?"  "I know not, Lord," said she, "save that it behoves me to journey by the same road
that he journeys."  "My Lord," said Geraint, "with thy permission we will depart."  "Whither
wilt thou go?" said Arthur.  "Thou canst not proceed now, unless it be unto thy death."  "He
will not suffer himself to be invited by me," said Gwalchmai.  "But by me he will," said Arthur;
"and, moreover, he does not go from here until he is healed."  "I had rather, Lord," said Geraint,
"that thou wouldest let me go forth."  "That will I not, I declare to Heaven," said he.  Then
he caused a maiden to be sent for to conduct Enid to the tent where Gwenhwyvar's chamber was.
And Gwenhwyvar and all her women were joyful at her coming; and they took off her riding-dress,
and placed other garments upon her.  Arthur also called Kadyrieith, and ordered him to pitch
a tent for Geraint and the physicians; and he enjoined him to provide him with abundance of
all that might be requisite for him.  And Kadyrieith did as he had commanded him.  And Morgan
Tud and his disciples were brought to Geraint.

And Arthur and his hosts remained there nearly a month, whilst Geraint was being healed.  And
when he was fully recovered, Geraint came to Arthur, and asked his permission to depart.  "I
know not if thou art quite well."  "In truth I am, Lord," said Geraint.  "I shall not believe
thee concerning that, but the physicians that were with thee."  So Arthur caused the physicians
to be summoned to him, and asked them if it were true.  "It is true, Lord," said Morgan Tud.
So the next day Arthur permitted him to go forth, and he pursued his journey.  And on the same
day Arthur removed thence.  And Geraint desired Enid to go on, and to keep before him, as she
had formerly done.  "I am the Little King," he answered, "coming to thy assistance, for I heard
that thou wast in trouble.  And if thou hadst followed my advice, none of these hardships would
have befallen thee."  "Nothing can happen," said Geraint, "without the will of Heaven, though
much good results from counsel."  "Yes," said the Little King, "and I know good counsel for
thee now.  And they remained there a fortnight and a month.

Then the Little King said to Geraint, "Now will we go towards my own Court, to take rest, and
amuse ourselves."  "Not so," said Geraint, "we will first journey for one day more, and return
again."  "With all my heart," said the Little King, "do thou go then."  And early in the day
they set forth.  And more gladly and more joyfully did Enid journey with them that day than
she had ever done.  And they came to the main road.  And when they reached a place where the
road divided in two, they beheld a man on foot coming towards them along one of these roads,
and Gwiffert asked the man whence he came.  "I come," said he, "from an errand in the country."
"Tell me," said Geraint, "which is the best for me to follow of these two roads?"  "That is
the best for thee to follow," answered he, "for if thou goest by this one, thou wilt never
return.  Below us," said he, "there is a hedge of mist, and within it are enchanted games,
and no one who has gone there has ever returned.  And the Court of the Earl Owain is there,
and he permits no one to go to lodge in the town, except he will go to his Court."  "I declare
to Heaven," said Geraint, "that we will take the lower road."  And they went along it until
they came to the town.  And they took the fairest and pleasantest place in the town for their
lodging.  And while they were thus, behold, a young man came to them, and greeted them.  "Heaven
be propitious to thee," said they.  "Good Sirs," said he, "what preparations are you making
here?" "We are taking up our lodging," said they, "to pass the night."  "It is not the custom
with him who owns the town," he answered, "to permit any of gentle birth, unless they come
to stay in his Court, to abide here; therefore, come ye to the Court."  "We will come, gladly,"
said Geraint.  And they went with the page, and they were joyfully received.  And the Earl
came to the hall to meet them, and he commanded the tables to be laid.  And they washed, and
sat down. And this is the order in which they sat:  Geraint on one side of the Earl, and Enid
on the other side, and next to Enid the Little King, and then the Countess next to Geraint;
and all after that as became their rank.  Then Geraint recollected the games, and thought that
he should not go to them; and on that account he did not eat.  Then the Earl looked upon Geraint,
and considered, and he bethought him that his not eating was because of the games, and it grieved
him that he had ever established those games, were it only on account of losing such a youth
as Geraint.  And if Geraint had asked him to abolish the games, he would gladly have done so.
Then the Earl said to Geraint, "What thought occupies thy mind, that thou dost not eat?  If
thou hesitatest about going to the games, thou shalt not go, and no other of thy rank shall
ever go either."  "Heaven reward thee," said Geraint, "but I wish nothing better than to go
to the games, and to be shown the way thither."  "If that is what thou dost prefer, thou shalt
obtain it willingly."  "I do prefer it, indeed," said he.  Then they ate, and they were amply
served, and they had a variety of gifts, and abundance of liquor.  And when they had finished
eating they arose.  And Geraint called for his horse and his armour, and he accoutred both
himself and his horse.  And all the hosts went forth until they came to the side of the hedge,
and the hedge was so lofty, that it reached as high as they could see in the air, and upon
every stake in the hedge, except two, there was the head of a man, and the number of stakes
throughout the hedge was very great.  Then said the Little King, "May no one go in with the
chieftain?"  "No one may," said Earl Owain.  "Which way can I enter?" inquired Geraint.  "I
know not," said Owain, "but enter by the way that thou wilt, and that seemeth easiest to thee."

Then fearlessly and unhesitatingly Geraint dashed forward into the mist.  And on leaving the
mist, he came to a large orchard; and in the orchard he saw an open space, wherein was a tent
of red satin; and the door of the tent was open, and an apple-tree stood in front of the door
of the tent; and on a branch of the apple-tree hung a huge hunting-horn.  Then he dismounted,
and went into the tent; and there was no one in the tent save one maiden sitting in a golden
chair, and another chair was opposite to her, empty.  And Geraint went to the empty chair,
and sat down therein.  "Ah! chieftain," said the maiden, "I would not counsel thee to sit in
that chair." "Wherefore?" said Geraint.  "The man to whom that chair belongs has never suffered
another to sit in it."  "I care not," said Geraint, "though it displease him that I sit in
the chair."  And thereupon they heard a mighty tumult around the tent.  And Geraint looked
to see what was the cause of the tumult.  And he beheld without a knight mounted upon a warhorse,
proudly snorting, high-mettled, and large of bone; and a robe of honour in two parts was upon
him and upon his horse, and beneath it was plenty of armour.  "Tell me, chieftain," said he
to Geraint, "who it was that bade thee sit there?"  "Myself," answered he.  "It was wrong of
thee to do me this shame and disgrace. Arise, and do me satisfaction for thine insolence."
Then Geraint arose; and they encountered immediately; and they broke a set of lances, and a
second set, and a third; and they gave each other fierce and frequent strokes; and at last
Geraint became enraged, and he urged on his horse, and rushed upon him, and gave him a thrust
on the centre of his shield, so that it was split, and so that the head of his lance went through
his armour, and his girths were broken, and he himself was borne headlong to the ground the
length of Geraint's lance and arm, over his horse's crupper.  "Oh, my Lord!" said he, "thy
mercy, and thou shalt have what thou wilt."  "I only desire," said Geraint, "that this game
shall no longer exist here, nor the hedge of mist, nor magic, nor enchantment."  "Thou shalt
have this gladly, Lord," he replied.  "Cause, then, the mist to disappear from this place,"
said Geraint.  "Sound yonder horn," said he, "and when thou soundest it, the mist will vanish;
but it will not go hence unless the horn be blown by the knight by whom I am vanquished." 
And sad and sorrowful was Enid where she remained, through anxiety concerning Geraint.  Then
Geraint went and sounded the horn.  And at the first blast he gave, the mist vanished.  And
all the hosts came together, and they all became reconciled to each other.  And the Earl invited
Geraint and the Little King to stay with him that night.  From the time of her pregnancy Goleuddydd
became wild, and wandered about, without habitation; but when her delivery was at hand, her
reason came back to her.  Then she went to a mountain where there was a swineherd, keeping
a herd of swine.  And through fear of the swine the queen was delivered.  And the swineherd
took the boy, and brought him to the palace; and he was christened, and they called him Kilhwch,
because he had been found in a swine's burrow. Nevertheless the boy was of gentle lineage,
and cousin unto Arthur; and they put him out to nurse.  And they conquered the king's lands.

On a certain day, as the lady walked abroad, she came to the house of an old crone that dwelt
in the town, and that had no tooth in her head.  And the queen said to her, "Old woman, tell
me that which I shall ask thee, for the love of Heaven.  Where are the children of the man
who has carried me away by violence?"  Said the crone, "He has not children."  Said the queen,
"Woe is me, that I should have come to one who is childless!"  Then said the hag, "Thou needest
not lament on account of that, for there is a prediction he shall have an heir by thee, and
by none other.  Moreover, be not sorrowful, for he has one son."

The lady returned home with joy; and she asked her consort, "Wherefore hast thou concealed
thy children from me?"  The king said, "I will do so no longer."  And he sent messengers for
his son, and he was brought to the Court.  His stepmother said unto him, "It were well for
thee to have a wife, and I have a daughter who is sought of every man of renown in the world."
And during every other part of the year but this, the office is filled by Huandaw, and Gogigwc,
and Llaeskenym, and Pennpingyon, who goes upon his head to save his feet, neither towards the
sky nor towards the earth, but like a rolling stone upon the floor of the court."  And all
the women in this Palace that are pregnant shall lose their offspring; and such as are not
pregnant, their hearts shall be turned by illness, so that they shall never bear children from
this day forward."  It is unbecoming to keep such a man as thou sayest he is, in the wind and
the rain."  Said Kai, "By the hand of my friend, if thou wouldest follow my counsel, thou wouldest
not break through the laws of the Court because of him."  "Not so, blessed Kai.  "I am Kilhwch,
the son of Kilydd, the son of Prince Kelyddon, by Goleuddydd, my mother, the daughter of Prince
Anlawdd." I seek it from Kai, and Bedwyr, and Greidawl Galldonyd, and Gwythyr the son of Greidawl,
and Greid the son of Eri, and Kynddelig Kyvarwydd, and Tathal Twyll Goleu, and Maelwys the
son of Baeddan, and Crychwr the son of Nes, and Cubert the son of Daere, and Percos the son
of Poch, and Lluber Beuthach, and Corvil Bervach, and Gwynn the son of Nudd, and Edeyrn the
son of Nudd, and Gadwy the son of Geraint, and Prince Fflewddur Fflam, and Ruawn Pebyr the
son of Dorath, and Bradwen the son of Moren Mynawc, and Moren Mynawc himself, and Dalldav the
son of Kimin Cov, and the son of Alun Dyved, and the son of Saidi, and the son of Gwryon, and
Uchtryd Ardywad Kad, and Kynwas Curvagyl, and Gwrhyr Gwarthegvras, and Isperyr Ewingath, and
Gallcoyt Govynynat, and Duach, and Grathach, and Nerthach, the sons of Gwawrddur Kyrvach (these
men came forth from the confines of hell), and Kilydd Canhastyr, and Canastyr Kanllaw, and
Cors Cant- Ewin, and Esgeir Gulhwch Govynkawn, and Drustwrn Hayarn, and Glewlwyd Gavaelvawr,
and Lloch Llawwynnyawc, and Aunwas Adeiniawc, and Sinnoch the son of Seithved, and Gwennwynwyn
the son of Naw, and Bedyw the son of Seithved, and Gobrwy the son of Echel Vorddwyttwll, and
Echel Vorddwyttwll himself, and Mael the son of Roycol, and Dadweir Dallpenn, and Garwyli the
son of Gwythawc Gwyr, and Gwythawc Gwyr himself, and Gormant the son of Ricca, and Menw the
son of Teirgwaedd, and Digon the son of Alar, and Selyf the son of Smoit, and Gusg the son
of Atheu, and Nerth the son of Kedarn, and Drudwas the son of Tryffin, and Twrch the son of
Perif, and Twrch the son of Annwas, and Iona king of France, and Sel the son of Selgi, and
Teregud the son of Iaen, and Sulyen the son of Iaen, and Bradwen the son of Iaen, and Moren
the son of Iaen, and Siawn the son of Iaen, and Cradawc the son of Iaen.  (They were men of
Caerdathal, of Arthur's kindred on his father's side.)  Dirmyg the son of Kaw, and Justic the
son of Kaw, and Etmic the son of Kaw, and Anghawd the son of Kaw, and Ovan the son of Kaw,
and Kelin the son of Kaw, and Connyn the son of Kaw, and Mabsant the son of Kaw, and Gwyngad
the son of Kaw, and Llwybyr the son of Kaw, and Coth the son of Kaw, and Meilic the son of
Kaw, and Kynwas the son of Kaw, and Ardwyad the son of Kaw, and Ergyryad the son of Kaw, and
Neb the son of Kaw, and Gilda the son of Kaw, and Calcas the son of Kaw, and Hueil the son
of Kaw (he never yet made a request at the hand of any Lord).  And Kynwyl Sant (the third man
that escaped from the battle of Camlan, and he was the last who parted from Arthur on Hengroen
his horse).  And Uchtryd the son of Erim, and Eus the son of Erim, and Henwas Adeinawg the
son of Erim, and Henbedestyr the son of Erim, and Sgilti Yscawndroed the son of Erim. (Unto
these three men belonged these three qualities,--With Henbedestyr there was not any one who
could keep pace, either on horseback or on foot; with Henwas Adeinawg, no four-footed beast
could run the distance of an acre, much less could it go beyond it; and as to Sgilti Yscawndroed,
when he intended to go upon a message for his Lord, he never sought to find a path, but knowing
whither he was to go, if his way lay through a wood he went along the tops of the trees.  And
Carneddyr the son of Govynyon Hen, and Gwenwynwyn the son of Nav Gyssevin, Arthur's champion,
and Llysgadrudd Emys, and Gwrbothu Hen (uncles unto Arthur were they, his mother's brothers).
Kulvanawyd the son of Goryon, and Llenlleawg Wyddel from the headland of Ganion, and Dyvynwal
Moel, and Dunard king of the North, Teirnon Twryf Bliant, and Tegvan Gloff, and Tegyr Talgellawg,
Gwrdinal the son of Ebrei, and Morgant Hael, Gwystyl the son of Rhun the son of Nwython, and
Llwyddeu the son of Nwython, and Gwydre the son of Llwyddeu (Gwenabwy the daughter of [Kaw]
was his mother, Hueil his uncle stabbed him, and hatred was between Hueil and Arthur because
of the wound).  Drem the son of Dremidyd (when the gnat arose in the morning with the sun,
he could see it from Gelli Wic in Cornwall, as far off as Pen Blathaon in North Britain). 
And Eidyol the son of Ner, and Glwyddyn Saer (who constructed Ehangwen, Arthur's Hall).  Gwyddawg
the son of Menestyr (who slew Kai, and whom Arthur slew, together with his brothers, to revenge
Kai).  Garanwyn the son of Kai, and Amren the son of Bedwyr, and Ely Amyr,and Rheu Rhwyd Dyrys,
and Rhun Rhudwern, and Eli, and Trachmyr (Arthur's chief huntsmen).  And Llwyddeu the son of
Kelcoed, and Hunabwy the son of Gwryon, and Gwynn Godyvron, and Gweir Datharwenniddawg, and
Gweir the son of Cadell the son of Talaryant, and Gweir Gwrhyd Ennwir, and Gweir Paladyr Hir
(the uncles of Arthur, the brothers of his mother). The sons of Llwch Llawwynnyawg (from beyond
the raging sea). Llenlleawg Wyddel, and Ardderchawg Prydain.  Cas the son of Saidi, Gwrvan
Gwallt Avwyn, and Gwyllennhin the king of France, and Gwittart the son of Oedd king of Ireland.
Garselit Wyddel, Panawr Pen Bagad, and Ffleudor the son of Nav, Gwynnhyvar mayor of Cornwall
and Devon (the ninth man that rallied the battle of Camlan).  (The day they went on a visit
three Cantrevs provided for their entertainment, and they feasted until noon and drank until
night, when they went to sleep.  And then they devoured the heads of the vermin through hunger,
as if they had never eaten anything.  Gware Gwallt Euryn.  The two cubs of Gast Rhymi, Gwyddrud
and Gwyddneu Astrus.  Sugyn the son of Sugnedydd (who would suck up the sea on which were three
hundred ships so as to leave nothing but a dry strand.  He was broad-chested).  Rhacymwri,
the attendant of Arthur (whatever barn he was shown, were there the produce of thirty ploughs
within it, he would strike it with an iron flail until the rafters, the beams, and the boards
were no better than the small oats in the mow upon the floor of the barn). Dygyflwng and Anoeth
Veidawg.  And Hir Eiddyl, and Hir Amreu (they were two attendants of Arthur).  And Gwevyl the
son of Gwestad (on the day that he was sad, he would let one of his lips drop below his waist,
while he turned up the other like a cap upon his head).  Elidyr Gyvarwydd.  Yskyrdav and Yscudydd
(two attendants of Gwenhwyvar were they.  Their feet were swift as their thoughts when bearing
a message).  Brys the son of Bryssethach (from the Hill of the Black Fernbrake in North Britain).
And Grudlwyn Gorr.  Their three dogs, Call, Cuall, and Cavall.  Their three horses, Hwyrdyddwd,
and Drwgdyddwd, and Llwyrdyddwg.  Their three wives, Och, and Garym, and Diaspad.  Their three
grandchildren, Lluched, and Neved, and Eissiwed.  Their three daughters, Drwg, and Gwaeth,
and Gwaethav Oll. Their three hand-maids, Eheubryd the daughter of Kyfwlch, Gorascwrn the daughter
of Nerth, Ewaedan the daughter of Kynvelyn Keudawd Pwyll the half-man.)  Dwnn Diessic Unbenn,
Eiladyr the son of Pen Llarcau, Kynedyr Wyllt the son of Hettwn Talaryant, Sawyl Ben Uchel,
Gwalchmai the son of Gwyar, Gwalhaved the son of Gwyar, Gwrhyr Gwastawd Ieithoedd (to whom
all tongues were known), and Kethcrwm the Priest.  Medyr the son of Methredydd (from Gelli
Wic he could, in a twinkling, shoot the wren through the two legs upon Esgeir Oervel in Ireland).
Gwiawn Llygad Cath (who could cut a haw from the eye of the gnat without hurting him).  Ol
the son of Olwydd (seven years before he was born his father's swine were carried off, and
when he grew up a man he tracked the swine, and brought them back in seven herds).  Bedwini
the Bishop (who blessed Arthur's meat and drink).  For the sake of the golden-chained daughters
of this island.  For the sake of Gwenhwyvar its chief lady, and Gwennhwyach her sister, and
Rathtyeu the only daughter of Clemenhill, and Rhelemon the daughter of Kai, and Tannwen the
daughter of Gweir Datharweniddawg.  Gwenn Alarch the daughter of Kynwyl Canbwch.  Eurneid the
daughter of Clydno Eiddin.  Eneuawc the daughter of Bedwyr.  Enrydreg the daughter of Tudvathar.
Gwennwledyr the daughter of Gwaledyr Kyrvach.  Erddudnid the daughter of Tryffin. Eurolwen
the daughter of Gwdolwyn Gorr.  Teleri the daughter of Peul. Indeg the daughter of Garwy Hir.
Morvudd the daughter of Urien Rheged.  Gwenllian Deg the majestic maiden.  Creiddylad the daughter
of Lludd Llaw Ereint.  (She was the most splendid maiden in the three Islands of the mighty,
and in the three Islands adjacent, and for her Gwythyr the son of Greidawl and Gwynn the son
of Nudd fight every first of May until the day of doom.)  Ellylw the daughter of Neol Kynn-Crog
(she lived three ages).  Essyllt Vinwen and Essyllt Vingul."  Then said Kilhwch, "Every one
has received his boon, and I yet lack mine. I will depart and bear away thy honour with me."
Thereupon Kai rose up.  Kai had this peculiarity, that his breath lasted nine nights and nine
days under water, and he could exist nine nights and nine days without sleep.  A wound from
Kai's sword no physician could heal.  Very subtle was Kai.  When it pleased him he could render
himself as tall as the highest tree in the forest.  And he had another peculiarity,-- so great
was the heat of his nature, that, when it rained hardest, whatever he carried remained dry
for a handbreadth above and a handbreadth below his hand; and when his companions were coldest,
it was to them as fuel with which to light their fire.

And Arthur called Bedwyr, who never shrank from any enterprise upon which Kai was bound.  None
was equal to him in swiftness throughout this island except Arthur and Drych Ail Kibddar. 
And although he was one-handed, three warriors could not shed blood faster than he on the field
of battle.  Another property he had; his lance would produce a wound equal to those of nine
opposing lances.

He called Gwalchmai the son of Gwyar, because he never returned home without achieving the
adventure of which he went in quest.  He was the best of footmen and the best of knights. 
He was nephew to Arthur, the son of his sister, and his cousin. And they journeyed that day
until the evening, and when they thought they were nigh to the castle, they were no nearer
to it than they had been in the morning.  And the second and the third day they journeyed,
and even then scarcely could they reach so far.  And when they came before the castle, they
beheld a vast flock of sheep, which was boundless and without an end.  Never had he lost even
a lamb from his flock, much less a large sheep.  He let no occasion ever pass without doing
some hurt and harm.  All the dead trees and bushes in the plain he burnt with his breath down
to the very ground.

Then said Kai, "Gwrhyr Gwalstawt Ieithoedd, go thou and salute yonder man."  "Kai," said he,
"I engaged not to go further than thou thyself."  "Let us go then together," answered Kai.
"Truly, art thou the chief?"  "There is no hurt to injure me but my own." And ye also, who
are ye?"  And as he arose, Kilhwch gave unto him a ring of gold.  And he sought to put on the
ring, but it was too small for him, so he placed it in the finger of his glove.  And he went
home, and gave the glove to his spouse to keep.  And she took the ring from the glove when
it was given her, and she said, "Whence came this ring, for thou art not wont to have good
fortune?"  "I went," said he, "to the sea to seek for fish, and lo, I saw a corpse borne by
the waves.  And a fairer corpse than it did I never behold.  And from its finger did I take
this ring."  "O man! does the sea permit its dead to wear jewels? Show me then this body."
And Kai placed the log between her two hands, and she squeezed it so that it became a twisted
coil.  Said Kai, "Does she ever come hither, so that she may be seen?"  "And you, wherefore
come you?"  Cursed be the smith who forged it, and the anvil whereon it was wrought!  So sharp
is it!"

That night also they took up their abode in the house of Custennin the herdsman.  And unless
thou wilt do so, thou shalt meet with thy death on her account."  And Menw the son of Gwaedd
caught it, and flung it back at him, and wounded him in the centre of the breast, so that it
came out at the small of his back.  And Kilhwch caught it and threw it vigorously, and wounded
him through the eyeball, so that the dart came out at the back of his head.  Cursed be the
fire in which it was forged.  Like the bite of a mad dog is the stroke of this poisoned iron."

Said Yspaddaden Penkawr, "Is it thou that seekest my daughter?"  "It is I," answered Kilhwch.
"I will do so," said he.

"Seest thou yonder vast hill?"  "I see it."  "I require that it be rooted up, and that the
grubbings be burned for manure on the face of the land, and that it be ploughed and sown in
one day, and in one day that the grain ripen.  And of that wheat I intend to make food and
liquor fit for the wedding of thee and my daughter.  And all this I require done in one day."

"It will be easy for me to compass this, although thou mayest think that it will not be easy."

"Though this be easy for thee, there is yet that which will not be so. Govannon the son of
Don to come to the headland to rid the iron, he will do no work of his own good will except
for a lawful king, and thou wilt not be able to compel him."

"It will be easy for me to compass this."

"Though thou get this, there is yet that which thou wilt not get; the two dun oxen of Gwlwlyd,
both yoked together, to plough the wild land yonder stoutly.

"It will be easy for me to compass this."

"Though thou get this, there is yet that which thou wilt not get; the two horned oxen, one
of which is beyond, and the other this side of the peaked mountain, yoked together in the same
plough.  And these are Nynniaw and Peibaw whom God turned into oxen on account of their sins."

"It will be easy for me to compass this." Honey that is nine times sweeter than the honey of
the virgin swarm, without scum and bees, do I require to make bragget for the feast."

"It will be easy for me to compass this, although thou mayest think that it will not be easy."

"The vessel of Llwyr the son of Llwyryon, which is of the utmost value.  There is no other
vessel in the world that can hold this drink. The basket of Gwyddneu Garanhir, if the whole
world should come together, thrice nine men at a time, the meat that each of them desired would
be found within it.  I require to eat therefrom on the night that my daughter becomes thy bride.
The horn of Gwlgawd Gododin to serve us with liquor that night. The cauldron of Diwrnach Wyddel,
the steward of Odgar the son of Aedd, king of Ireland, to boil the meat for thy marriage feast."
It is needful for me to wash my head, and shave my beard, and I require the tusk of Yskithyrwyn
Penbaedd to shave myself withal, neither shall I profit by its use if it be not plucked alive
out of his head." There is no one in the world that can pluck it out of his head except Odgar
the son of Aedd, king of Ireland."

"It will be easy for me to compass this."

"Though thou get this, there is yet that which thou wilt not get.  I will not trust any one
to keep the tusk except Gado of North Britain.  I must spread out my hair in order to shave
it, and it will never be spread out unless I have the blood of the jet-black sorceress, the
daughter of the pure white sorceress, from Pen Nant Govid, on the confines of Hell."  I will
not have the blood unless I have it warm, and no vessels will keep warm the liquid that is
put therein except the bottles of Gwyddolwyd Gorr, which preserve the heat of the liquor that
is put into them in the east, until they arrive at the west. Some will desire fresh milk, and
it will not be possible to have fresh milk for all, unless we have the bottles of Rhinnon Rhin
Barnawd, wherein no liquor ever turns sour. Throughout the world there is not a comb or scissors
with which I can arrange my hair, on account of its rankness, except the comb and scissors
that are between the two ears of Twrch Trwyth, the son of Prince Tared.  It will not be possible
to hunt Twrch Trwyth without Drudwyn the whelp of Greid, the son of Eri." Throughout the world
there is not a leash that can hold him, except the leash of Cwrs Cant Ewin." Throughout the
world there is no collar that will hold the leash except the collar of Canhastyr Canllaw."
The chain of Kilydd Canhastyr to fasten the collar to the leash." Gwynn Mygdwn, the horse of
Gweddw, that is as swift as the wave, to carry Mabon the son of Modron to hunt the boar Trwyth.
Thou wilt not get Mabon, for it is not known where he is, unless thou find Eidoel, his kinsman
in blood, the son of Aer.  For it would be useless to seek for him.  He is his cousin." Garselit
the Gwyddelian is the chief huntsman of Ireland; the Twrch Trwyth can never be hunted without
him."  A leash made from the beard of Dillus Varvawc, for that is the only one that can hold
those two cubs.  And the leash will be of no avail unless it be plucked from his beard while
he is alive, and twitched out with wooden tweezers. Throughout the world there is no huntsman
that can hold those two whelps except Kynedyr Wyllt, the son of Hettwn Glafyrawc; he is nine
times more wild than the wildest beast upon the mountains.  Him wilt thou never get, neither
wilt thou ever get my daughter."  It is not possible to hunt the boar Trwyth without Gwynn
the son of Nudd, whom God has placed over the brood of devils in Annwvyn, lest they should
destroy the present race.  He will never be spared thence." There is not a horse in the world
that can carry Gwynn to hunt the Twrch Trwyth, except Du, the horse of Mor of Oerveddawg."
Until Gilennhin the king of France shall come, the Twrch Trwyth cannot be hunted.  It will
be unseemly for him to leave his kingdom for thy sake, and he will never come hither." The
Twrch Trwyth can never be hunted without the son of Alun Dyved; he is well skilled in letting
loose the dogs." The Twrch Trwyth cannot be hunted unless thou get Aned and Aethlem. They are
as swift as the gale of wind, and they were never let loose upon a beast that they did not
kill him."  Their three dogs, Call, Cuall, and Cavall. Their three horses, Hwyrdydwg, and Drwgdydwg,
and Llwyrdydwg.  Their three wives, Och, and Garam, and Diaspad.  These three men shall sound
the horn, and all the others shall shout, so that all will think that the sky is falling to
the earth."  And they spoke unto him, "Whence comest thou, O man?"  "From the castle which
you see yonder."  "Whose castle is that?" asked they.  "Stupid are ye truly, O men.  There
is no one in the world that does not know to whom this castle belongs.  No guest ever returned
thence alive, and no one may enter therein unless he brings with him his craft."

Then they proceeded towards the gate.  Said Gwrhyr Gwalstawt Ieithoedd, "Is there a porter?"
"There is.  "What is thy craft?"  "The best burnisher of swords am I in the world."  "I will
go and tell this unto Gwrnach the Giant, and I will bring thee an answer."  And Kai went in
by himself, and he saluted Gwrnach the Giant. And a chair was placed for him opposite to Gwrnach.
Then was the sword of Gwrnach brought to him.  And Kai said, "Bedwyr is very skilful, although
he knows not this art."

And there was much discourse among those who were without, because that Kai and Bedwyr had
gone in.  And a young man who was with them, the only son of Custennin the herdsman, got in
also.  And he caused all his companions to keep close to him as he passed the three wards,
and until he came into the midst of the castle.  And his companions said unto the son of Custennin,
"Thou hast done this!  Thou art the best of all men."  And thenceforth he was called Goreu,
the son of Custennin.  Then they dispersed to their lodgings, that they might slay those who
lodged therein, unknown to the Giant.  And again on the same day, at the beginning of the year,
they came to Arthur's Court, bearing with them the sword of Gwrnach the Giant.

Said Arthur, "Which of the marvels will it be best for us now to seek first?"  "It will be
best to seek for the two cubs of Gast Rhymhi." "Is it known," asked Arthur, "where she is?"
"In what form may she be?"  "She is in the form of a she- wolf," said he; "and with her there
are two cubs."  "She has often slain my herds, and she is there below in a cave in Aber Cleddyf."
And the host of Arthur dispersed themselves into parties of one and two.

As Kai and Bedwyr sat on a beacon carn on the summit of Plinlimmon, in the highest wind that
ever was in the world, they looked around them, and saw a great smoke towards the south, afar
off, which did not bend with the wind.  Then said Kai, "By the hand of my friend, behold, yonder
is the fire of a robber!"  "Dost thou know him?"

And from thence they both went to Gelli Wic, in Cornwall, and took the leash made of Dillus
Varvawc's beard with them, and they gave it into Arthur's hand.  Then Arthur composed this Englyn -

Kai made a leash Of Dillus son of Eurei's beard. Were he alive, thy death he'd be.

And thereupon Kai was wroth, so that the warriors of the Island could scarcely make peace between
Kai and Arthur.  And thenceforth, neither in Arthur's troubles, nor for the slaying of his
men, would Kai come forward to his aid for ever after.

Said Arthur, "Which of the marvels is it best for us now to seek?" "It is best for us to seek
Drudwyn, the cub of Greid the son of Eri."

A little while before this, Creiddylad the daughter of Lludd Llaw Ereint, and Gwythyr the son
of Greidawl, were betrothed.  And before she had become his bride, Gwyn ap Nudd came and carried
her away by force; and Gwythyr the son of Greidawl gathered his host together, and went to
fight with Gwyn ap Nudd.  But Gwyn overcame him, and captured Greid the son of Eri, and Glinneu
the son of Taran, and Gwrgwst Ledlwm, and Dynvarth his son.  And he captured Penn the son of
Nethawg, and Nwython, and Kyledyr Wyllt his son.  And they slew Nwython, and took out his heart,
and constrained Kyledyr to eat the heart of his father.  And therefrom Kyledyr became mad.
When Arthur heard of this, he went to the North, and summoned Gwyn ap Nudd before him, and
set free the nobles whom he had put in prison, and made peace between Gwyn ap Nudd and Gwythyr
the son of Griedawl.  And this was the peace that was made: --that the maiden should remain
in her father's house, without advantage to either of them, and that Gwyn ap Nudd and Gwythyr
the son of Greidawl should fight for her every first of May, from thenceforth until the day
of doom, and that whichever of them should then be conqueror should have the maiden.

And when Arthur had thus reconciled these chieftains, he obtained Mygdwn, Gweddw's horse, and
the leash of Cwrs Cant Ewin.

And after that Arthur went into Armorica, and with him Mabon the son of Mellt, and Gware Gwallt
Euryn, to seek the two dogs of Glythmyr Ledewic.  And when he had got them, he went to the
West of Ireland, in search of Gwrgi Seven; and Odgar the son of Aedd king of Ireland went with
him.  And thence went Arthur into the North, and captured Kyledyr Wyllt; and he went after
Yskithyrwyn Penbaedd.  And Mabon the son of Mellt came with the two dogs of Glythmyr Ledewic
in his hand, and Drudwyn, the cub of Greid the son of Eri.  And Arthur went himself to the
chase, leading his own dog Cavall.  And Kaw, of North Britain, mounted Arthur's mare Llamrei,
and was first in the attack. Then Kaw, of North Britain, wielded a mighty axe, and absolutely
daring he came valiantly up to the boar, and clave his head in twain. And Kaw took away the
tusk.  Now the boar was not slain by the dogs that Yspaddaden had mentioned, but by Cavall,
Arthur's own dog.

And after Yskithyrwyn Penbaedd was killed, Arthur and his host departed to Gelli Wic in Cornwall.
And thence he sent Menw the son of Teirgwaedd to see if the precious things were between the
two ears of Twrch Trwyth, since it were useless to encounter him if they were not there.  Albeit
it was certain where he was, for he had laid waste the third part of Ireland.  And Menw went
to seek for him, and he met with him in Ireland, in Esgeir Oervel.  And Menw took the form
of a bird; and he descended upon the top of his lair, and strove to snatch away one of the
precious things from him, but he carried away nothing but one of his bristles.  And the boar
rose up angrily and shook himself so that some of his venom fell upon Menw, and he was never
well from that day forward.

After this Arthur sent an embassy to Odgar, the son of Aedd king of Ireland, to ask for the
cauldron of Diwrnach Wyddel, his purveyor. And Odgar commanded him to give it.  But Diwrnach
said, "Heaven is my witness, if it would avail him anything even to look at it, he should not
do so."  And the embassy of Arthur returned from Ireland with this denial.  And Arthur set
forward with a small retinue, and entered into Prydwen, his ship, and went over to Ireland.
And they proceeded into the house of Diwrnach Wyddel.  And the hosts of Odgar saw their strength.
When they had eaten and drunk as much as they desired, Arthur demanded to have the cauldron.
And he answered, "If I would have given it to any one, I would have given it at the word of
Odgar king of Ireland."

When he had given them this denial, Bedwyr arose and seized hold of the cauldron, and placed
it upon the back of Hygwyd, Arthur's servant, who was brother, by the mother's side, to Arthur's
servant, Cachamwri.  His office was always to carry Arthur's cauldron, and to place fire under
it.  And Llenlleawg Wyddel seized Caledvwlch, and brandished it.  And they slew Diwrnach Wyddel
and his company.  Then came the Irish and fought with them.  And when he had put them to flight,
Arthur with his men went forward to the ship, carrying away the cauldron full of Irish money.
And he disembarked at the house of Llwydden the son of Kelcoed, at Porth Kerddin in Dyved.
And there is the measure of the cauldron.

Then Arthur summoned unto him all the warriors that were in the three Islands of Britain, and
in the three Islands adjacent, and all that were in France and in Armorica, in Normandy and
in the Summer Country, and all that were chosen footmen and valiant horsemen.  And with all
these he went into Ireland.  And in Ireland there was great fear and terror concerning him.
And when Arthur had landed in the country, there came unto him the saints of Ireland and besought
his protection.  And he granted his protection unto them, and they gave him their blessing.
Then the men of Ireland came unto Arthur, and brought him provisions.  And Arthur went as far
as Esgeir Oervel in Ireland, to the place where the Boar Trwyth was with his seven young pigs.
And the dogs were let loose upon him from all sides.  That day until evening the Irish fought
with him, nevertheless he laid waste the fifth part of Ireland.  And on the day following the
household of Arthur fought with him, and they were worsted by him, and got no advantage.  And
the third day Arthur himself encountered him, and he fought with him nine nights and nine days
without so much as killing even one little pig.  The warriors inquired of Arthur what was the
origin of that swine; and he told them that he was once a king, and that God had transformed
him into a swine for his sins.

Then Arthur sent Gwrhyr Gwalstawt Ieithoedd, to endeavour to speak with him.  And Gwrhyr assumed
the form of a bird, and alighted upon the top of the lair, where he was with the seven young
pigs.  And Gwrhyr Gwalstawt Ieithoedd asked him, "By him who turned you into this form, if
you can speak, let some one of you, I beseech you, come and talk with Arthur."  Grugyn Gwrych
Ereint made answer to him. (Now his bristles were like silver wire, and whether he went through
the wood or through the plain, he was to be traced by the glittering of his bristles.)  And
this was the answer that Grugyn made:  "By him who turned us into this form, we will not do
so, and we will not speak with Arthur.  That we have been transformed thus is enough for us
to suffer, without your coming here to fight with us."  "I will tell you.  Arthur comes but
to fight for the comb, and the razor, and the scissors which are between the two ears of Twrch
Trwyth."  Said Grugyn, "Except he first take his life, he will never have those precious things.
And to-morrow morning we will rise up hence, and we will go into Arthur's country, and there
will we do all the mischief that we can."

So they set forth through the sea towards Wales.  And Arthur and his hosts, and his horses
and his dogs, entered Prydwen, that they might encounter them without delay.  Twrch Trwyth
landed in Porth Cleis in Dyved, and Arthur came to Mynyw.  The next day it was told to Arthur
that they had gone by, and he overtook them as they were killing the cattle of Kynnwas Kwrr
y Vagyl, having slain all that were at Aber Gleddyf, of man and beast, before the coming of Arthur.

Now when Arthur approached, Twrch Trwyth went on as far as Preseleu, and Arthur and his hosts
followed him thither, and Arthur sent men to hunt him; Eli and Trachmyr, leading Drudwyn the
whelp of Greid the son of Eri, and Gwarthegyd the son of Kaw, in another quarter, with the
two dogs of Glythmyr Ledewic, and Bedwyr leading Cavall, Arthur's own dog.  And all the warriors
ranged themselves around the Nyver. And there came there the three sons of Cleddyf Divwlch,
men who had gained much fame at the slaying of Yskithyrwyn Penbaedd; and they went on from
Glyn Nyver, and came to Cwm Kerwyn.

And there Twrch Trwyth made a stand, and slew four of Arthur's champions, Gwarthegyd the son
of Kaw, and Tarawc of Allt Clwyd, and Rheidwn the son of Eli Atver, and Iscovan Hael.  And
after he had slain these men, he made a second stand in the same place.  And there he slew
Gwydre the son of Arthur, and Garselit Wyddel, and Glew the son of Ysgawd, and Iscawyn the
son of Panon; and there he himself was wounded.

And the next morning before it was day, some of the men came up with him.  And he slew Huandaw,
and Gogigwr, and Penpingon, three attendants upon Glewlwyd Gavaelvawr, so that Heaven knows
he had not an attendant remaining, excepting only Llaesgevyn, a man from whom no one ever derived
any good.  And together with these he slew many of the men of that country, and Gwlydyn Saer,
Arthur's chief Architect.

Then Arthur overtook him at Pelumyawc, and there he slew Madawc the son of Teithyon, and Gwyn
the son of Tringad, the son of Neved, and Eiryawn Penllorau.  Thence he went to Aberteivi,
where he made another stand, and where he slew Kyflas the son of Kynan, and Gwilenhin king
of France.  Then he went as far as Glyn Ystu, and there the men and the dogs lost him.

Then Arthur summoned unto him Gwyn ab Nudd, and he asked him if he knew aught of Twrch Trwyth.
And he said that he did not.

And all the huntsmen went to hunt the swine as far as Dyffryn Llychwr.  And Grugyn Gwallt Ereint
and Llwydawg Govynnyad closed with them and killed all the huntsmen, so that there escaped
but one man only.  And Arthur and his hosts came to the place where Grugyn and Llwydawg were.
And there he let loose the whole of the dogs upon them, and with the shout and barking that
was set up, Twrch Trwyth came to their assistance.

And from the time that they came across the Irish sea, Arthur had never got sight of him until
then.  So he set men and dogs upon him, and thereupon he started off and went to Mynydd Amanw.
And there one of his young pigs was killed.  Then they set upon him life for life, and Twrch
Llawin was slain, and then there was slain another of the swine, Gwys was his name.  After
that he went on to Dyffryn Amanw, and there Banw and Bennwig were killed.  Of all his pigs
there went with him alive from that place none save Grugyn Gwallt Ereint and Llwydawg Govynnyad.

Thence he went on to Llwch Ewin, and Arthur overtook him there, and he made a stand.  And there
he slew Echel Forddwytwll, and Garwyli the son of Gwyddawg Gwyr, and many men and dogs likewise.
And thence they went to Llwch Tawy.  Grugyn Gwrych Ereint parted from them there, and went
to Din Tywi.  And thence he proceeded to Ceredigiawn, and Eli and Trachmyr with him, and a
multitude likewise.  Then he came to Garth Gregyn, and there Llwydawg Govynnyad fought in the
midst of them, and slew Rhudvyw Rhys and many others with him.  Then Llwydawg went thence to
Ystrad Yw, and there the men of Armorica met him, and there he slew Hirpeissawg the king of
Armorica, and Llygatrudd Emys, and Gwrbothu, Arthur's uncles, his mother's brothers, and there
was he himself slain.

Twrch Trwyth went from there to between Tawy and Euyas, and Arthur summoned all Cornwall and
Devon unto him, to the estuary of the Severn, and he said to the warriors of this Island, "Twrch
Trwyth has slain many of my men, but, by the valour of warriors, while I live he shall not
go into Cornwall.  And I will not follow him any longer, but I will oppose him life to life.
Do ye as ye will."  And he resolved that he would send a body of knights, with the dogs of
the Island, as far as Euyas, who should return thence to the Severn, and that tried warriors
should traverse the Island, and force him into the Severn.  And Mabon the son of Modron came
up with him at the Severn, upon Gwynn Mygdwn, the horse of Gweddw, and Goreu the son of Custennin,
and Menw the son of Teirgwaedd; this was betwixt Llyn Lliwan and Aber Gwy.  And Arthur fell
upon him together with the champions of Britain.  And Osla Kyllellvawr drew near, and Manawyddan
the son of Llyr, and Kacmwri the servant of Arthur, and Gwyngelli, and they seized hold of
him, catching him first by his feet, and plunged him in the Severn, so that it overwhelmed
him.  On the one side, Mabon the son of Modron spurred his steed and snatched his razor from
him, and Kyledyr Wyllt came up with him on the other side, upon another steed, in the Severn,
and took from him the scissors. But before they could obtain the comb, he had regained the
ground with his feet, and from the moment that he reached the shore, neither dog, nor man,
nor horse could overtake him until he came to Cornwall. If they had had trouble in getting
the jewels from him, much more had they in seeking to save the two men from being drowned.
Kacmwri, as they drew him forth, was dragged by two millstones into the deep. And as Osla Kyllellvawr
was running after the boar, his knife had dropped out of the sheath, and he had lost it, and
after that, the sheath became full of water, and its weight drew him down into the deep, as
they were drawing him forth.

Then Arthur and his hosts proceeded until they overtook the boar in Cornwall, and the trouble
which they had met with before was mere play to what they encountered in seeking the comb.
But from one difficulty to another, the comb was at length obtained.  And then he was hunted
from Cornwall, and driven straight forward into the deep sea.  And thenceforth it was never
known whither he went; and Aned and Aethlem with him.  Then went Arthur to Gelli Wic, in Cornwall,
to anoint himself, and to rest from his fatigues.

Said Arthur, "Is there any one of the marvels yet unobtained?"  Said one of his men, "There
is--the blood of the witch Orddu, the daughter of the witch Orwen, of Pen Nant Govid, on the
confines of Hell." Arthur set forth towards the North, and came to the place where was the
witch's cave.  And Gwyn ab Nudd, and Gwythyr the son of Greidawl, counselled him to send Kacmwri,
and Hygwyd his brother, to fight with the witch.  And as they entered the cave, the witch seized
upon them, and she caught Hygwyd by the hair of his head, and threw him on the floor beneath
her.  And Kacmwri caught her by the hair of her head, and dragged her to the earth from off
Hygwyd, but she turned again upon them both, and drove them both out with kicks and with cuffs.

And Arthur was wroth at seeing his two attendants almost slain, and he sought to enter the
cave; but Gwyn and Gwythyr said unto him, "It would not be fitting or seemly for us to see
thee squabbling with a hag.  Let Hiramreu and Hireidil go to the cave."  So they went.  But
if great was the trouble of the first two that went, much greater was that of these two.  And
Heaven knows that not one of the four could move from the spot, until they placed them all
upon Llamrei, Arthur's mare.  And then Arthur rushed to the door of the cave, and at the door
he struck at the witch, with Carnwennan his dagger, and clove her in twain, so that she fell
in two parts.  And Kaw, of North Britain, took the blood of the witch and kept it.

Then Kilhwch set forward, and Goreu the son of Custennin with him, and as many as wished ill
to Yspaddaden Penkawr.  And they took the marvels with them to his court.  And Kaw of North
Britain came and shaved his beard, skin, and flesh clean off to the very bone from ear to ear.
"Art thou shaved, man?" said Kilhwch.  "I am shaved," answered he.  By my free will thou shouldest
never have had her, for with her I lose my life."  And the hosts of Arthur dispersed themselves,
each man to his own country.  And thus did Kilhwch obtain Olwen, the daughter of Yspaddaden
Penkawr.

THE DREAM OF RHONABWY

Madawc the son of Maredudd possessed Powys within its boundaries, from Porfoed to Gwauan in
the uplands of Arwystli.  And at that time he had a brother, Iorwerth the son of Maredudd,
in rank not equal to himself.  And Iorwerth had great sorrow and heaviness because of the honour
and power that his brother enjoyed, which he shared not.  And he sought his fellows and his
foster-brothers, and took counsel with them what he should do in this matter.  And they resolved
to dispatch some of their number to go and seek a maintenance for him.  Then Madawc offered
him to become Master of the Household and to have horses, and arms, and honour, and to fare
like as himself.  But Iorwerth refused this.

And Iorwerth made an inroad into Loegria, slaying the inhabitants, and burning houses, and
carrying away prisoners.  And Madawc took counsel with the men of Powys, and they determined
to place an hundred men in each of the three Commots of Powys to seek for him. And thus did
they in the plains of Powys from Aber Ceirawc, and in Allictwn Ver, and in Rhyd Wilure, on
the Vyrnwy, the three best Commots of Powys.  So he was none the better, he nor his household,
in Powys, nor in the plains thereof.  And they spread these men over the plains as far as Nillystwn
Trevan.

Now one of the men who was upon this quest was called Rhonabwy.  And Rhonabwy and Kynwrig Vrychgoch,
a man of Mawddwy, and Cadwgan Vras, a man of Moelvre in Kynlleith, came together to the house
of Heilyn Goch the son of Cadwgan the son of Iddon.  And when they came near to the house,
they saw an old hall, very black and having an upright gable, whence issued a great smoke;
and on entering, they found the floor full of puddles and mounds; and it was difficult to stand
thereon, so slippery was it with the mire of cattle.  And where the puddles were, a man might
go up to his ankles in water and dirt.  And there were boughs of holly spread over the floor,
whereof the cattle had browsed the sprigs.  When they came to the hall of the house, they beheld
cells full of dust, and very gloomy, and on one side an old hag making a fire.  And whenever
she felt cold, she cast a lapful of chaff upon the fire, and raised such a smoke, that it was
scarcely to be borne, as it rose up the nostrils.  And on the other side was a yellow calf-skin
on the floor; a main privilege was it to any one who should get upon that hide.

And when they had sat down, they asked the hag where were the people of the house.  And the
hag spoke not, but muttered.  Thereupon behold the people of the house entered; a ruddy, clownish,
curly-headed man, with a burthen of faggots on his back, and a pale slender woman, also carrying
a bundle under her arm.  And they barely welcomed the men, and kindled a fire with the boughs.
And the woman cooked something, and gave them to eat, barley bread, and cheese, and milk and water.

And there arose a storm of wind and rain, so that it was hardly possible to go forth with safety.
And being weary with their journey, they laid themselves down and sought to sleep.  And when
they looked at the couch, it seemed to be made but of a little coarse straw full of dust and
vermin, with the stems of boughs sticking up there-through, for the cattle had eaten all the
straw that was placed at the head and the foot.  And upon it was stretched an old russet- coloured
rug, threadbare and ragged; and a coarse sheet, full of slits, was upon the rug, and an ill-stuffed
pillow, and a worn-out cover upon the sheet.  And after much suffering from the vermin, and
from the discomfort of their couch, a heavy sleep fell on Rhonabwy's companions.  But Rhonabwy,
not being able either to sleep or to rest, thought he should suffer less if he went to lie
upon the yellow calf- skin that was stretched out on the floor.  And there he slept.

As soon as sleep had come upon his eyes, it seemed to him that he was journeying with his companions
across the plain of Argyngroeg, and he thought that he went towards Rhyd y Groes on the Severn.
As he journeyed, he heard a mighty noise, the like whereof heard he never before; and looking
behind him, he beheld a youth with yellow curling hair, and with his beard newly trimmed, mounted
on a chestnut horse, whereof the legs were grey from the top of the forelegs, and from the
bend of the hindlegs downwards.  And the rider wore a coat of yellow satin sewn with green
silk, and on his thigh was a gold-hilted sword, with a scabbard of new leather of Cordova,
belted with the skin of the deer, and clasped with gold.  And over this was a scarf of yellow
satin wrought with green silk, the borders whereof were likewise green.  And the green of the
caparison of the horse, and of his rider, was as green as the leaves of the fir-tree, and the
yellow was as yellow as the blossom of the broom.  So fierce was the aspect of the knight,
that fear seized upon them, and they began to flee.  And the knight pursued them.  And when
the horse breathed forth, the men became distant from him, and when he drew in his breath,
they were drawn near to him, even to the horse's chest.  And when he had overtaken them, they
besought his mercy.  "You have it gladly," said he, "fear nought."  "Ha, chieftain, since thou
hast mercy upon me, tell me also who thou art," said Rhonabwy.  "I will not conceal my lineage
from thee, I am Iddawc the son of Mynyo, yet not by my name, but by my nickname am I best known."
"And wilt thou tell us what thy nickname is?"  "I will tell you; it is Iddawc Cordd Prydain."
"Ha, chieftain," said Rhonabwy, "why art thou called thus?"  "I will tell thee.  I was one
of the messengers between Arthur and Medrawd his nephew, at the battle of Camlan; and I was
then a reckless youth, and through my desire for battle, I kindled strife between them, and
stirred up wrath, when I was sent by Arthur the Emperor to reason with Medrawd, and to show
him, that he was his foster-father and his uncle, and to seek for peace, lest the sons of the
Kings of the Island of Britain, and of the nobles, should be slain.  And whereas Arthur charged
me with the fairest sayings he could think of, I uttered unto Medrawd the harshest I could
devise.  And therefore am I called Iddawc Cordd Prydain, for from this did the battle of Camlan
ensue.  And three nights before the end of the battle of Camlan I left them, and went to the
Llech Las in North Britain to do penance. And there I remained doing penance seven years, and
after that I gained pardon."

Then lo! they heard a mighty sound which was much louder than that which they had heard before,
and when they looked round towards the sound, they beheld a ruddy youth, without beard or whiskers,
noble of mien, and mounted on a stately courser.  And from the shoulders and the front of the
knees downwards the horse was bay.  And upon the man was a dress of red satin wrought with
yellow silk, and yellow were the borders of his scarf.  And such parts of his apparel and of
the trappings of his horse as were yellow, as yellow were they as the blossom of the broom,
and such as were red, were as ruddy as the ruddiest blood in the world.

Then, behold the horseman overtook them, and he asked of Iddawc a share of the little men that
were with him.  "That which is fitting for me to grant I will grant, and thou shalt be a companion
to them as I have been."  And the horseman went away.  "Iddawc," inquired Rhonabwy, "who was
that horseman?"  "Rhuvawn Pebyr the son of Prince Deorthach."

And they journeyed over the plain of Argyngroeg as far as the ford of Rhyd y Groes on the Severn.
And for a mile around the ford on both sides of the road, they saw tents and encampments, and
there was the clamour of a mighty host.  And they came to the edge of the ford, and there they
beheld Arthur sitting on a flat island below the ford, having Bedwini the Bishop on one side
of him, and Gwarthegyd the son of Kaw on the other.  And a tall, auburn-haired youth stood
before him, with his sheathed sword in his hand, and clad in a coat and cap of jet-black satin.
And his face was white as ivory, and his eyebrows black as jet, and such part of his wrist
as could be seen between his glove and his sleeve, was whiter than the lily, and thicker than
a warrior's ankle.

Then came Iddawc and they that were with him, and stood before Arthur and saluted him.  "Heaven
grant thee good," said Arthur.  "And where, Iddawc, didst thou find these little men?"  "I
found them, lord, up yonder on the road."  Then the Emperor smiled.  "Lord," said Iddawc, "wherefore
dost thou laugh?"  "Iddawc," replied Arthur, "I laugh not; but it pitieth me that men of such
stature as these should have this island in their keeping, after the men that guarded it of
yore." Then said Iddawc, "Rhonabwy, dost thou see the ring with a stone set in it, that is
upon the Emperor's hand?"  "I see it," he answered. "It is one of the properties of that stone
to enable thee to remember that thou seest here to-night, and hadst thou not seen the stone,
thou wouldest never have been able to remember aught thereof."

After this they saw a troop coming towards the ford.  "Iddawc," inquired Rhonabwy, "to whom
does yonder troop belong?"  "They are the fellows of Rhuvawn Pebyr the son of Prince Deorthach.
And these men are honourably served with mead and bragget, and are freely beloved by the daughters
of the kings of the Island of Britain.  And this they merit, for they were ever in the front
and the rear in every peril."  And he saw but one hue upon the men and the horses of this troop,
for they were all as red as blood.  And when one of the knights rode forth from the troop,
he looked like a pillar of fire glancing athwart the sky.  And this troop encamped above the ford.

Then they beheld another troop coming towards the ford, and these from their horses' chests
upwards were whiter than the lily, and below blacker than jet.  And they saw one of these knights
go before the rest, and spur his horse into the ford in such a manner that the water dashed
over Arthur and the Bishop, and those holding counsel with them, so that they were as wet as
if they had been drenched in the river.  And as he turned the head of his horse, the youth
who stood before Arthur struck the horse over the nostrils with his sheathed sword, so that,
had it been with the bare blade, it would have been a marvel if the bone had not been wounded
as well as the flesh.  And the knight drew his sword half out of the scabbard, and asked of
him, "Wherefore didst thou strike my horse?  Whether was it in insult or in counsel unto me?"
"Thou dost indeed lack counsel. What madness caused thee to ride so furiously as to dash the
water of the ford over Arthur, and the consecrated Bishop, and their counsellors, so that they
were as wet as if they had been dragged out of the river?"  "As counsel then will I take it."
So he turned his horse's head round towards his army.

"Iddawc," said Rhonabwy, "who was yonder knight?"  "The most eloquent and the wisest youth
that is in this island; Adaon, the son of Taliesin."  "Who was the man that struck his horse?"
"A youth of froward nature; Elphin, the son of Gwyddno."

Then spake a tall and stately man, of noble and flowing speech, saying that it was a marvel
that so vast a host should be assembled in so narrow a space, and that it was a still greater
marvel that those should be there at that time who had promised to be by mid-day in the battle
of Badon, fighting with Osla Gyllellvawr.  "Whether thou mayest choose to proceed or not, I
will proceed."  "Thou sayest well," said Arthur, "and we will go altogether."  "Iddawc," said
Rhonabwy, "who was the man who spoke so marvellously unto Arthur erewhile?"  "A man who may
speak as boldly as he listeth, Caradawc Vreichvras, the son of Llyr Marini, his chief counsellor
and his cousin."

Then Iddawc took Rhonabwy behind him on his horse, and that mighty host moved forward, each
troop in its order, towards Cevndigoll.  And when they came to the middle of the ford of the
Severn, Iddawc turned his horse's head, and Rhonabwy looked along the valley of the Severn.
And he beheld two fair troops coming towards the ford.  One troop there came of brilliant white,
whereof every one of the men had a scarf of white satin with jet-black borders.  And the knees
and the tops of the shoulders of their horses were jet-black, though they were of a pure white
in every other part.  And their banners were pure white, with black points to them all.

"Iddawc," said Rhonabwy, "who are yonder pure white troop?"  "They are the men of Norway, and
March the son of Meirchion is their prince.  And he is cousin unto Arthur."  And further on
he saw a troop, whereof each man wore garments of jet-black, with borders of pure white to
every scarf; and the tops of the shoulders and the knees of their horses were pure white. 
And their banners were jet- black with pure white at the point of each.

"Iddawc," said Rhonabwy, "who are the jet-black troop yonder?"  "They are the men of Denmark,
and Edeyrn the son of Nudd is their prince."

And when they had overtaken the host, Arthur and his army of mighty ones dismounted below Caer
Badou, and he perceived that he and Iddawc journeyed the same road as Arthur.  And after they
had dismounted he heard a great tumult and confusion amongst the host, and such as were then
at the flanks turned to the centre, and such as had been in the centre moved to the flanks.
And then, behold, he saw a knight coming, clad, both he and his horse, in mail, of which the
rings were whiter than the whitest lily, and the rivets redder than the ruddiest blood.  And
he rode amongst the host.

"Iddawc," said Rhonabwy, "will yonder host flee?"  "King Arthur never fled, and if this discourse
of thine were heard, thou wert a lost man.  But as to the knight whom thou seest yonder, it
is Kai.  The fairest horseman is Kai in all Arthur's Court; and the men who are at the front
of the army hasten to the rear to see Kai ride, and the men who are in the centre flee to the
side, from the shock of his horse. And this is the cause of the confusion of the host."

Thereupon they heard a call made for Kadwr, Earl of Cornwall, and behold he arose with the
sword of Arthur in his hand.  And the similitude of two serpents was upon the sword in gold.
And when the sword was drawn from its scabbard, it seemed as if two flames of fire burst forth
from the jaws of the serpents, and then, so wonderful was the sword, that it was hard for any
one to look upon it.  And the host became still, and the tumult ceased, and the Earl returned
to the tent.

"Iddawc," said Rhonabwy, "who is the man who bore the sword of Arthur?"  "Kadwr, the Earl of
Cornwall, whose duty it is to arm the King on the days of battle and warfare."

And they heard a call made for Eirynwych Amheibyn, Arthur's servant, a red, rough, ill-favoured
man, having red whiskers with bristly hairs.  And behold he came upon a tall red horse with
the mane parted on each side, and he brought with him a large and beautiful sumpter pack. 
And the huge red youth dismounted before Arthur, and he drew a golden chair out of the pack,
and a carpet of diapered satin.  And he spread the carpet before Arthur, and there was an apple
of ruddy gold at each corner thereof, and he placed the chair upon the carpet.  And so large
was the chair that three armed warriors might have sat therein.  Gwenn was the name of the
carpet, and it was one of its properties that whoever was upon it no one could see him, and
he could see every one.  And it would retain no colour but its own.

And Arthur sat within the carpet, and Owain the son of Urien was standing before him.  "Owain,"
said Arthur, "wilt thou play chess?" "I will, Lord," said Owain.  And the red youth brought
the chess for Arthur and Owain; golden pieces and a board of silver.  And they began to play.

And while they were thus, and when they were best amused with their game, behold they saw a
white tent with a red canopy, and the figure of a jet-black serpent on the top of the tent,
and red glaring venomous eyes in the head of the serpent, and a red flaming tongue. And there
came a young page with yellow curling hair, and blue eyes, and a newly-springing beard, wearing
a coat and a surcoat of yellow satin, and hose of thin greenish-yellow cloth upon his feet,
and over his hose shoes of parti-coloured leather, fastened at the insteps with golden clasps.
And he bore a heavy three-edged sword with a golden hilt, in a scabbard of black leather tipped
with fine gold. And he came to the place where the Emperor and Owain were playing at chess.

And the youth saluted Owain.  And Owain marvelled that the youth should salute him and should
not have saluted the Emperor Arthur. And Arthur knew what was in Owain's thought.  And he said
to Owain, "Marvel not that the youth salutes thee now, for he saluted me erewhile; and it is
unto thee that his errand is."  Then said the youth unto Owain, "Lord, is it with thy leave
that the young pages and attendants of the Emperor harass and torment and worry thy Ravens?
And if it be not with thy leave, cause the Emperor to forbid them."  "Lord," said Owain, "thou
hearest what the youth says; if it seem good to thee, forbid them from my Ravens."  "Play thy
game," said he.  Then the youth returned to the tent.

That game did they finish, and another they began, and when they were in the midst of the game,
behold, a ruddy young man with auburn curling hair and large eyes, well-grown, and having his
beard new- shorn, came forth from a bright yellow tent, upon the summit of which was the figure
of a bright red lion.  And he was clad in a coat of yellow satin, falling as low as the small
of his leg, and embroidered with threads of red silk.  And on his feet were hose of fine white
buckram, and buskins of black leather were over his hose, whereon were golden clasps.  And
in his hand a huge, heavy, three-edged sword, with a scabbard of red deer-hide, tipped with
gold.  And he came to the place where Arthur and Owain were playing at chess.  And he saluted
him.  And Owain was troubled at his salutation, but Arthur minded it no more than before. 
And the youth said unto Owain, "Is it not against thy will that the attendants of the Emperor
harass thy Ravens, killing some and worrying others?  If against thy will it be, beseech him
to forbid them."  "Lord," said Owain, "forbid thy men, if it seem good to thee."  "Play thy
game," said the Emperor.  And the youth returned to the tent.

And that game was ended and another begun.  And as they were beginning the first move of the
game, they beheld at a small distance from them a tent speckled yellow, the largest ever seen,
and the figure of an eagle of gold upon it, and a precious stone on the eagle's head.  And
coming out of the tent, they saw a youth with thick yellow hair upon his head, fair and comely,
and a scarf of blue satin upon him, and a brooch of gold in the scarf upon his right shoulder
as large as a warrior's middle finger.  And upon his feet were hose of fine Totness, and shoes
of parti-coloured leather, clasped with gold, and the youth was of noble bearing, fair of face,
with ruddy cheeks and large hawk's eyes.  In the hand of the youth was a mighty lance, speckled
yellow, with a newly-sharpened head; and upon the lance a banner displayed.

Fiercely angry, and with rapid pace, came the youth to the place where Arthur was playing at
chess with Owain.  And they perceived that he was wroth.  And thereupon he saluted Owain, and
told him that his Ravens had been killed, the chief part of them, and that such of them as
were not slain were so wounded and bruised that not one of them could raise its wings a single
fathom above the earth.  "Lord," said Owain, "forbid thy men."  "Play," said he, "if it please
thee." Then said Owain to the youth, "Go back, and wherever thou findest the strife at the
thickest, there lift up the banner, and let come what pleases Heaven."

So the youth returned back to the place where the strife bore hardest upon the Ravens, and
he lifted up the banner; and as he did so they all rose up in the air, wrathful and fierce
and high of spirit, clapping their wings in the wind, and shaking off the weariness that was
upon them.  And recovering their energy and courage, furiously and with exultation did they,
with one sweep, descend upon the heads of the men, who had erewhile caused them anger and pain
and damage, and they seized some by the heads and others by the eyes, and some by the ears,
and others by the arms, and carried them up into the air; and in the air there was a mighty
tumult with the flapping of the wings of the triumphant Ravens, and with their croaking; and
there was another mighty tumult with the groaning of the men, that were being torn and wounded,
and some of whom were slain.

And Arthur and Owain marvelled at the tumult as they played at chess; and, looking, they perceived
a knight upon a dun-coloured horse coming towards them.  And marvellous was the hue of the
dun horse. Bright red was his right shoulder, and from the top of his legs to the centre of
his hoof was bright yellow.  Both the knight and his horse were fully equipped with heavy foreign
armour.  The clothing of the horse from the front opening upwards was of bright red sendal,
and from thence opening downwards was of bright yellow sendal.  A large gold-hilted one-edged
sword had the youth upon his thigh, in a scabbard of light blue, and tipped with Spanish laton.
The belt of the sword was of dark green leather with golden slides and a clasp of ivory upon
it, and a buckle of jet-black upon the clasp.  A helmet of gold was on the head of the knight,
set with precious stones of great virtue, and at the top of the helmet was the image of a flame-
coloured leopard with two ruby-red stones in its head, so that it was astounding for a warrior,
however stout his heart, to look at the face of the leopard, much more at the face of the knight.
He had in his hand a blue-shafted lance, but from the haft to the point it was stained crimson-red
with the blood of the Ravens and their plumage.

The knight came to the place where Arthur and Owain were seated at chess.  And they perceived
that he was harassed and vexed and weary as he came towards them.  And the youth saluted Arthur,
and told him that the Ravens of Owain were slaying his young men and attendants. And Arthur
looked at Owain and said, "Forbid thy Ravens."  "Lord," answered Owain, "play thy game."  And
they played.  And the knight returned back towards the strife, and the Ravens were not forbidden
any more than before.

And when they had played awhile, they heard a mighty tumult, and a wailing of men, and a croaking
of Ravens, as they carried the men in their strength into the air, and, tearing them betwixt
them, let them fall piecemeal to the earth.  And during the tumult they saw a knight coming
towards them, on a light grey horse, and the left foreleg of the horse was jet-black to the
centre of his hoof.  And the knight and the horse were fully accoutred with huge heavy blue
armour.  And a robe of honour of yellow diapered satin was upon the knight, and the borders
of the robe were blue.  And the housings of the horse were jet-black, with borders of bright
yellow.  And on the thigh of the youth was a sword, long, and three-edged, and heavy.  And
the scabbard was of red cut leather, and the belt of new red deer-skin, having upon it many
golden slides and a buckle of the bone of the sea-horse, the tongue of which was jet-black.
A golden helmet was upon the head of the knight, wherein were set sapphire-stones of great
virtue.  And at the top of the helmet was the figure of a flame-coloured lion, with a fiery-red
tongue, issuing above a foot from his mouth, and with venomous eyes, crimson-red, in his head.
And the knight came, bearing in his hand a thick ashen lance, the head whereof, which had been
newly steeped in blood, was overlaid with silver.

And the youth saluted the Emperor:  "Lord," said he, "carest thou not for the slaying of thy
pages, and thy young men, and the sons of the nobles of the Island of Britain, whereby it will
be difficult to defend this island from henceforward for ever?"  "Owain," said Arthur, "forbid
thy Ravens."  "Play this game, Lord," said Owain.

So they finished the game and began another; and as they were finishing that game, lo, they
heard a great tumult and a clamour of armed men, and a croaking of Ravens, and a flapping of
wings in the air, as they flung down the armour entire to the ground, and the men and the horses
piecemeal.  Then they saw coming a knight on a lofty- headed piebald horse.  And the left shoulder
of the horse was of bright red, and its right leg from the chest to the hollow of the hoof
was pure white.  And the knight and horse were equipped with arms of speckled yellow, variegated
with Spanish laton.  And there was a robe of honour upon him, and upon his horse, divided in
two parts, white and black, and the borders of the robe of honour were of golden purple.  And
above the robe he wore a sword three-edged and bright, with a golden hilt.  And the belt of
the sword was of yellow goldwork, having a clasp upon it of the eyelid of a black sea-horse,
and a tongue of yellow gold to the clasp.  Upon the head of the knight was a bright helmet
of yellow laton, with sparkling stones of crystal in it, and at the crest of the helmet was
the figure of a griffin, with a stone of many virtues in its head.  And he had an ashen spear
in his hand, with a round shaft, coloured with azure blue.  And the head of the spear was newly
stained with blood, and was overlaid with fine silver.

Wrathfully came the knight to the place where Arthur was, and he told him that the Ravens had
slain his household and the sons of the chief men of this island, and he besought him to cause
Owain to forbid his Ravens.  And Arthur besought Owain to forbid them.  Then Arthur took the
golden chessmen that were upon the board, and crushed them until they became as dust.  Then
Owain ordered Gwres the son of Rheged to lower his banner.  So it was lowered, and all was peace.

Then Rhonabwy inquired of Iddawc who were the first three men that came to Owain, to tell him
his Ravens were being slain.  Said Iddawc, "They were men who grieved that Owain should suffer
loss, his fellow- chieftains and companions, Selyv the son of Kynan Garwyn of Powys, and Gwgawn
Gleddyvrudd, and Gwres the son of Rheged, he who bears the banner in the day of battle and
strife."  "Who," said Rhonabwy, "were the last three men who came to Arthur, and told him that
the Ravens were slaughtering his men?"  "The best of men," said Iddawc, "and the bravest, and
who would grieve exceedingly that Arthur should have damage in aught; Blathaon the son of Mawrheth,
and Rhuvawn Pebyr the son of Prince Deorthach, and Hyveidd Unllenn."

And with that behold four-and-twenty knights came from Osla Gyllellvawr, to crave a truce of
Arthur for a fortnight and a month. And Arthur rose and went to take counsel.  And he came
to where a tall, auburn, curly-headed man was a little way off, and there he assembled his
counsellors.  Bedwini, the Bishop, and Gwarthegyd the son of Kaw, and March the son of Meirchawn,
and Caradawc Vreichvras, and Gwalchmai the son of Gwyar, and Edeyrn the son of Nudd, and Rhuvawn
Pebyr the son of Prince Deorthach, and Rhiogan the son of the King of Ireland, and Gwenwynwyn
the son of Nav, Howel the son of Emyr Llydaw, Gwilym the son of Rhwyf Freinc, and Daned the
son of Ath, and Goreu Custennin, and Mabon the son of Modron, and Peredur Paladyr Hir, and
Hyveidd Unllenn, and Twrch the son of Perif, and Nerth the son of Kadarn, and Gobrwy the son
of Echel Vorddwyttwll, Gwair the son of Gwestyl, and Gadwy the son of Geraint, Trystan the
son of Tallwch, Moryen Manawc, Granwen the son of Llyr, and Llacheu the son of Arthur, and
Llawvrodedd Varvawc, and Kadwr Earl of Cornwall, Morvran the son of Tegid, and Rhyawd the son
of Morgant, and Dyvyr the son of Alun Dyved, Gwrhyr Gwalstawd Ieithoedd, Adaon the son of Taliesin,
Llary the son of Kasnar Wledig, and Fflewddur Fflam, and Greidawl Galldovydd, Gilbert the son
of Kadgyffro, Menw the son of Teirgwaedd, Gwrthmwl Wledig, Cawrdav the son of Caradawc Vreichvras,
Gildas the son of Kaw, Kadyriaith the son of Saidi, and many of the men of Norway and Denmark,
and many of the men of Greece, and a crowd of the men of the host came to that council.

"Iddawc," said Rhonabwy, "who was the auburn haired man to whom they came just now?"  "Rhun
the son of Maelgwn Gwynedd, a man whose prerogative it is, that he may join in counsel with
all."  "And wherefore did they admit into counsel with men of such dignity as are yonder a
stripling so young as Kadyriaith the son of Saidi?" "Because there is not throughout Britain
a man better skilled in counsel than he."

Thereupon, behold, bards came and recited verses before Arthur, and no man understood those
verses but Kadyriaith only, save that they were in Arthur's praise.

And lo, there came four-and-twenty asses with their burdens of gold and of silver, and a tired
way-worn man with each of them, bringing tribute to Arthur from the Islands of Greece.  Then
Kadyriaith the son of Saidi besought that a truce might be granted to Osla Gyllellvawr for
the space of a fortnight and a month, and that the asses and the burdens they carried might
be given to the bards, to be to them as the reward for their stay and that their verse might
be recompensed during the time of the truce.  And thus it was settled.

"Rhonabwy," said Iddawc, "would it not be wrong to forbid a youth who can give counsel so liberal
as this from coming to the councils of his Lord?"

Then Kai arose, and he said, "Whosoever will follow Arthur, let him be with him to-night in
Cornwall, and whosoever will not, let him be opposed to Arthur even during the truce."  And
through the greatness of the tumult that ensued, Rhonabwy awoke.  And when he awoke he was
upon the yellow calf-skin, having slept three nights and three days.

And this tale is called the Dream of Rhonabwy.  And this is the reason that no one knows the
dream without a book, neither bard nor gifted seer; because of the various colours that were
upon the horses, and the many wondrous colours of the arms and of the panoply, and of the precious
scarfs, and of the virtue-bearing stones.

PWYLL PRINCE OF DYVED

Pwyll Prince of Dyved was lord of the seven Cantrevs of Dyved; and once upon a time he was
at Narberth his chief palace, and he was minded to go and hunt, and the part of his dominions
in which it pleased him to hunt was Glyn Cuch.  So he set forth from Narbeth that night, and
went as far as Llwyn Diarwyd.  And that night he tarried there, and early on the morrow he
rose and came to Glyn Cuch, when he let loose the dogs in the wood, and sounded the horn, and
began the chase.  And as he followed the dogs, he lost his companions; and whilst he listened
to the hounds, he heard the cry of other hounds, a cry different from his own, and coming in
the opposite direction.

And he beheld a glade in the wood forming a level plain, and as his dogs came to the edge of
the glade, he saw a stag before the other dogs.  And lo, as it reached the middle of the glade,
the dogs that followed the stag overtook it and brought it down.  Then looked he at the colour
of the dogs, staying not to look at the stag, and of all the hounds that he had seen in the
world, he had never seen any that were like unto these.  For their hair was of a brilliant
shining white, and their ears were red; and as the whiteness of their bodies shone, so did
the redness of their ears glisten.  And he came towards the dogs, and drove away those that
had brought down the stag, and set his own dogs upon it.

And as he was setting on his dogs he saw a horseman coming towards him upon a large light-grey
steed, with a hunting horn round his neck, and clad in garments of grey woollen in the fashion
of a hunting garb.  And the horseman drew near and spoke unto him thus. "Chieftain," said he,
"I know who thou art, and I greet thee not." "Peradventure," said Pwyll, "thou art of such
dignity that thou shouldest not do so."  "Verily," answered he, "it is not my dignity that
prevents me."  "What is it then, O Chieftain?" asked he.  "By Heaven, it is by reason of thine
own ignorance and want of courtesy." "What discourtesy, Chieftain, hast thou seen in me?" 
"Greater discourtesy saw I never in man," said he, "than to drive away the dogs that were killing
the stag and to set upon it thine own.  This was discourteous, and though I may not be revenged
upon thee, yet I declare to Heaven that I will do thee more dishonour than the value of an
hundred stags."  "O Chieftain," he replied, "if I have done ill I will redeem thy friendship."
"How wilt thou redeem it?" "According as thy dignity may be, but I know not who thou art?"
"A crowned king am I in the land whence I come."  "Lord," said he, "may the day prosper with
thee, and from what land comest thou?"  "From Annwvyn," {2} answered he; "Arawn, a King of
Annwvyn, am I."  "Lord," said he, "how may I gain thy friendship?"  "After this manner mayest
thou," he said.  "There is a man whose dominions are opposite to mine, who is ever warring
against me, and he is Havgan, a King of Annwvyn, and by ridding me of this oppression, which
thou canst easily do, shalt thou gain my friendship."  "Gladly will I do this," said he.  "Show
me how I may."  "I will show thee.  Behold thus it is thou mayest.  I will make firm friendship
with thee; and this will I do.  I will send thee to Annwvyn in my stead, and I will give thee
the fairest lady thou didst ever behold to be thy companion, and I will put my form and semblance
upon thee, so that not a page of the chamber, nor an officer, nor any other man that has always
followed me shall know that it is not I.  And this shall be for the space of a year from to-morrow,
and then we will meet in this place."  "Yes," said he; "but when I shall have been there for
the space of a year, by what means shall I discover him of whom thou speakest?"  "One year
from this night," he answered, "is the time fixed between him and me that we should meet at
the Ford; be thou there in my likeness, and with one stroke that thou givest him, he shall
no longer live.  And if he ask thee to give him another, give it not, how much soever he may
entreat thee, for when I did so, he fought with me next day as well as ever before."  "Verily,"
said Pwyll, "what shall I do concerning my kingdom?"  Said Arawn, "I will cause that no one
in all thy dominions, neither man nor woman, shall know that I am not thou, and I will go there
in thy stead."  "Gladly then," said Pwyll, "will I set forward."  "Clear shall be thy path,
and nothing shall detain thee, until thou come into my dominions, and I myself will be thy guide!"

So he conducted him until he came in sight of the palace and its dwellings.  "Behold," said
he, "the Court and the kingdom in thy power.  Enter the Court, there is no one there who will
know thee, and when thou seest what service is done there, thou wilt know the customs of the
Court."

So he went forward to the Court, and when he came there, he beheld sleeping-rooms, and halls,
and chambers, and the most beautiful buildings ever seen.  And he went into the hall to disarray,
and there came youths and pages and disarrayed him, and all as they entered saluted him.  And
two knights came and drew his hunting-dress from about him, and clothed him in a vesture of
silk and gold.  And the hall was prepared, and behold he saw the household and the host enter
in, and the host was the most comely and the best equipped that he had ever seen.  And with
them came in likewise the Queen, who was the fairest woman that he had ever yet beheld.  And
she had on a yellow robe of shining satin; and they washed and went to the table, and sat,
the Queen upon one side of him, and one who seemed to be an Earl on the other side.

And he began to speak with the Queen, and he thought, from her speech, that she was the seemliest
and most noble lady of converse and of cheer that ever was.  And they partook of meat, and
drink, with songs and with feasting; and of all the Courts upon the earth, behold this was
the best supplied with food and drink, and vessels of gold and royal jewels.

And the year he spent in hunting, and minstrelsy, and feasting, and diversions, and discourse
with his companions until the night that was fixed for the conflict.  And when that night came,
it was remembered even by those who lived in the furthest part of his dominions, and he went
to the meeting, and the nobles of the kingdom with him.  And when he came to the Ford, a knight
arose and spake thus.  "Lords," said he, "listen well.  It is between two kings that this meeting
is, and between them only.  Each claimeth of the other his land and territory, and do all of
you stand aside and leave the fight to be between them."

Thereupon the two kings approached each other in the middle of the Ford, and encountered, and
at the first thrust, the man who was in the stead of Arawn struck Havgan on the centre of the
boss of his shield, so that it was cloven in twain, and his armour was broken, and Havgan himself
was borne to the ground an arm's and a spear's length over the crupper of his horse, and he
received a deadly blow. "O Chieftain," said Havgan, "what right hast thou to cause my death?
I was not injuring thee in anything, and I know not wherefore thou wouldest slay me.  But,
for the love of Heaven, since thou hast begun to slay me, complete thy work."  "Ah, Chieftain,"
he replied, "I may yet repent doing that unto thee, slay thee who may, I will not do so." 
"My trusty Lords," said Havgan, "bear me hence.  My death has come.  I shall be no more able
to uphold you."  "My Nobles," also said he who was in the semblance of Arawn, "take counsel
and know who ought to be my subjects."  "Lord," said the Nobles, "all should be, for there
is no king over the whole of Annwvyn but thee."  "Yes," he replied, "it is right that he who
comes humbly should be received graciously, but he that doth not come with obedience, shall
be compelled by the force of swords."  And thereupon he received the homage of the men, and
he began to conquer the country; and the next day by noon the two kingdoms were in his power.
And thereupon he went to keep his tryst, and came to Glyn Cuch.

And when he came there, the King of Annwvyn was there to meet him, and each of them was rejoiced
to see the other.  "Verily," said Arawn, "may Heaven reward thee for thy friendship towards
me.  I have heard of it.  When thou comest thyself to thy dominions," said he, "thou wilt see
that which I have done for thee."  "Whatever thou hast done for me, may Heaven repay it thee."

Then Arawn gave to Pwyll Prince of Dyved his proper form and semblance, and he himself took
his own; and Arawn set forth towards the Court of Annwvyn; and he was rejoiced when he beheld
his hosts, and his household, whom he had not seen so long; but they had not known of his absence,
and wondered no more at his coming than usual. And that day was spent in joy and merriment;
and he sat and conversed with his wife and his nobles.  And when it was time for them rather
to sleep than to carouse, they went to rest.

Pwyll Prince of Dyved came likewise to his country and dominions, and began to inquire of the
nobles of the land, how his rule had been during the past year, compared with what it had been
before.  "Lord," said they, "thy wisdom was never so great, and thou wast never so kind or
so free in bestowing thy gifts, and thy justice was never more worthily seen than in this year."
"By Heaven," said he, "for all the good you have enjoyed, you should thank him who hath been
with you; for behold, thus hath this matter been."  And thereupon Pwyll related the whole unto
them.  "Verily, Lord," said they, "render thanks unto Heaven that thou hast such a fellowship,
and withhold not from us the rule which we have enjoyed for this year past."  "I take Heaven
to witness that I will not withhold it," answered Pwyll.

And thenceforth they made strong the friendship that was between them, and each sent unto the
other horses, and greyhounds, and hawks, and all such jewels as they thought would be pleasing
to each other. And by reason of his having dwelt that year in Annwvyn, and having ruled there
so prosperously, and united the two kingdoms in one day by his valour and prowess, he lost
the name of Pwyll Prince of Dyved, and was called Pwyll Chief of Annwvyn from that time forward.
Yet she held the same pace as at first.  And after the first meal, "Verily," said Pwyll, "we
will go the same party as yesterday to the top of the mound.  And do thou," said he to one
of his young men, "take the swiftest horse that thou knowest in the field."  And thus did the
young man.  And they went towards the mound, taking the horse with them.  And as they were
sitting down they beheld the lady on the same horse, and in the same apparel, coming along
the same road.  "Behold," said Pwyll, "here is the lady of yesterday.  Make ready, youth, to
learn who she is."  "My lord," said he, "that will I gladly do."  And thereupon the lady came
opposite to them.  So the youth mounted his horse; and before he had settled himself in his
saddle, she passed by, and there was a clear space between them.  But her speed was no greater
than it had been the day before.  Then he put his horse into an amble, and thought that notwithstanding
the gentle pace at which his horse went, he should soon overtake her. But this availed him
not; so he gave his horse the reins.  And still he came no nearer to her than when he went
at a foot's pace.  And the more he urged his horse, the further was she from him.  Yet she
rode not faster than before.  When he saw that it availed not to follow her, he returned to
the place where Pwyll was.  "Lord," said he, "the horse can no more than thou hast seen." 
"I see indeed that it avails not that any one should follow her.  And by Heaven," said he,
"she must needs have an errand to some one in this plain, if her haste would allow her to declare
it.  Let us go back to the palace."  And to the palace they went, and they spent that night
in songs and feasting, as it pleased them.  But he came no nearer to her than at first.  Then
he urged his horse to his utmost speed, yet he found that it availed nothing to follow her.
And she fixed her eyes upon him, and began to talk with him.  "Lady," asked he, "whence comest
thou, and whereunto dost thou journey?"  "I journey on mine own errand," said she, "and right
glad am I to see thee."  "My greeting be unto thee," said he.  And I will cause a feast to
be prepared, so that it be ready against thou come."  "Gladly," said he, "will I keep this
tryst."  "Lord," said she, "remain in health, and be mindful that thou keep thy promise; and
now I will go hence."  Never can I do as thou sayest." "Bestow me upon him," said she, "and
I will cause that I shall never be his."  "By what means will that be?" asked Pwyll.  "In thy
hand will I give thee a small bag," said she.  "See that thou keep it well, and he will ask
of thee the banquet, and the feast, and the preparations which are not in thy power.  Unto
the hosts and the household will I give the feast.  And such will be thy answer respecting
this.  And as concerns myself, I will engage to become his bride this night twelvemonth.  And
at the end of the year be thou here," said she, "and bring this bag with thee, and let thy
hundred knights be in the orchard up yonder.  And when he is in the midst of joy and feasting,
come thou in by thyself, clad in ragged garments, and holding thy bag in thy hand, and ask
nothing but a bagful of food, and I will cause that if all the meat and liquor that are in
these seven Cantrevs were put into it, it would be no fuller than before.  And after a great
deal has been put therein, he will ask thee whether thy bag will ever be full.  Say thou then
that it never will, until a man of noble birth and of great wealth arise and press the food
in the bag with both his feet, saying, 'Enough has been put therein;' and I will cause him
to go and tread down the food in the bag, and when he does so, turn thou the bag, so that he
shall be up over his head in it, and then slip a knot upon the thongs of the bag. Let there
be also a good bugle horn about thy neck, and as soon as thou hast bound him in the bag, wind
thy horn, and let it be a signal between thee and thy knights.  And when they hear the sound
of the horn, let them come down upon the palace."  Every one as he came in asked, "What game
are you playing at thus?"  "Such then is our counsel," answered they.  "I accept it," said
Pwyll.  "Demand now of Gwawl his sureties," said Heveydd, "we know which should be taken for
him."  And Heveydd numbered the sureties.  Said Gwawl, "Do thou thyself draw up the covenant."
"It will suffice me that it be as Rhiannon said," answered Pwyll.  So unto that covenant were
the sureties pledged.  "Verily, Lord," said Gwawl, "I am greatly hurt, and I have many bruises.

And in the third year the nobles of the land began to be sorrowful at seeing a man whom they
loved so much, and who was moreover their lord and their foster-brother, without an heir. 
And they came to him. And the place where they met was Preseleu, in Dyved.  "Lord," said they,
"we know that thou art not so young as some of the men of this country, and we fear that thou
mayest not have an heir of the wife whom thou hast taken.  Take therefore another wife of whom
thou mayest have heirs.  Thou canst not always continue with us, and though thou desire to
remain as thou art, we will not suffer thee." "Truly," said Pwyll, "we have not long been joined
together, and many things may yet befall.  Grant me a year from this time, and for the space
of a year we will abide together, and after that I will do according to your wishes.  So they
granted it.  And before the end of a year a son was born unto him.  And in Narberth was he
born; and on the night that he was born, women were brought to watch the mother and the boy.
And the women slept, as did also Rhiannon, the mother of the boy.  And the number of the women
that were brought into the chamber was six.  And they watched for a good portion of the night,
and before midnight every one of them fell asleep, and towards break of day they awoke; and
when they awoke, they looked where they had put the boy, and behold he was not there.  "Oh,"
said one of the women, "the boy is lost?"  "Yes," said another, "and it will be small vengeance
if we are burnt or put to death because of the child." Said one of the women, "Is there any
counsel for us in the world in this matter?"  "There is," answered another, "I offer you good
counsel."  "What is that?" asked they.  "There is here a stag-hound bitch, and she has a litter
of whelps.  Let us kill some of the cubs, and rub the blood on the face and hands of Rhiannon,
and lay the bones before her, and assert that she herself hath devoured her son, and she alone
will not be able to gainsay us six."  And according to this counsel it was settled.  And towards
morning Rhiannon awoke, and she said, "Women, where is my son?"  "Lady," said they, "ask us
not concerning thy son, we have nought but the blows and the bruises we got by struggling with
thee, and of a truth we never saw any woman so violent as thou, for it was of no avail to contend
with thee.  Hast thou not thyself devoured thy son?  Claim him not therefore of us." "For pity's
sake," said Rhiannon; "the Lord God knows all things. Charge me not falsely.  If you tell me
this from fear, I assert before Heaven that I will defend you."  "Truly," said they, "we would
not bring evil on ourselves for any one in the world."  "For pity's sake," said Rhiannon, "you
will receive no evil by telling the truth."  But for all her words, whether fair or harsh,
she received but the same answer from the women.

And Pwyll the chief of Annwvyn arose, and his household, and his hosts.  And this occurrence
could not be concealed, but the story went forth throughout the land, and all the nobles heard
it.  Then the nobles came to Pwyll, and besought him to put away his wife, because of the great
crime which she had done.  But Pwyll answered them, that they had no cause wherefore they might
ask him to put away his wife, save for her having no children.  "But children has she now had,
therefore will I not put her away; if she has done wrong, let her do penance for it."

So Rhiannon sent for the teachers and the wise men, and as she preferred doing penance to contending
with the women, she took upon her a penance.  And the penance that was imposed upon her was,
that she should remain in that palace of Narberth until the end of seven years, and that she
should sit every day near unto a horseblock that was without the gate.  And that she should
relate the story to all who should come there, whom she might suppose not to know it already;
and that she should offer the guests and strangers, if they would permit her, to carry them
upon her back into the palace.  But it rarely happened that any would permit.  And thus did
she spend part of the year.

Now at that time Teirnyon Twryv Vliant was Lord of Gwent Is Coed, and he was the best man in
the world.  And unto his house there belonged a mare, than which neither mare nor horse in
the kingdom was more beautiful.  And on the night of every first of May she foaled, and no
one ever knew what became of the colt.  And one night Teirnyon talked with his wife:  "Wife,"
said he, "it is very simple of us that our mare should foal every year, and that we should
have none of her colts."  "What can be done in the matter?" said she.  "This is the night of
the first of May," said he.  "The vengeance of Heaven be upon me, if I learn not what it is
that takes away the colts."  So he caused the mare to be brought into a house, and he armed
himself, and began to watch that night.  And in the beginning of the night, the mare foaled
a large and beautiful colt.  And it was standing up in the place.  And Teirnyon rose up and
looked at the size of the colt, and as he did so he heard a great tumult, and after the tumult
behold a claw came through the window into the house, and it seized the colt by the mane. 
Then Teirnyon drew his sword, and struck off the arm at the elbow, so that portion of the arm
together with the colt was in the house with him.  And then did he hear a tumult and wailing,
both at once.  And he opened the door, and rushed out in the direction of the noise, and he
could not see the cause of the tumult because of the darkness of the night, but he rushed after
it and followed it. Then he remembered that he had left the door open, and he returned. And
at the door behold there was an infant boy in swaddling-clothes, wrapped around in a mantle
of satin.  And he took up the boy, and behold he was very strong for the age that he was of.

Then he shut the door, and went into the chamber where his wife was. "Lady," said he, "art
thou sleeping?"  "No, lord," said she, "I was asleep, but as thou camest in I did awake." 
"Behold, here is a boy for thee if thou wilt," said he, "since thou hast never had one." "My
lord," said she, "what adventure is this?"  "It was thus," said Teirnyon; and he told her how
it all befell.  "Verily, lord," said she, "what sort of garments are there upon the boy?" 
"A mantle of satin," said he.  "He is then a boy of gentle lineage," she replied. "My lord,"
she said, "if thou wilt, I shall have great diversion and mirth.  I will call my women unto
me, and tell them that I have been pregnant."  "I will readily grant thee to do this," he answered.
And thus did they, and they caused the boy to be baptized, and the ceremony was performed there;
and the name which they gave unto him was Gwri Wallt Euryn, because what hair was upon his
head was as yellow as gold.  And they had the boy nursed in the Court until he was a year old.
And before the year was over he could walk stoutly. And he was larger than a boy of three years
old, even one of great growth and size.  And the boy was nursed the second year, and then he
was as large as a child six years old.  And before the end of the fourth year, he would bribe
the grooms to allow him to take the horses to water.  "My lord," said his wife unto Teirnyon,
"where is the colt which thou didst save on the night that thou didst find the boy?"  "I have
commanded the grooms of the horses," said he, "that they take care of him."  "Would it not
be well, lord," said she, "if thou wert to cause him to be broken in, and given to the boy,
seeing that on the same night that thou didst find the boy, the colt was foaled and thou didst
save him?"  "I will not oppose thee in this matter," said Teirnyon.  "I will allow thee to
give him the colt." "Lord," said she, "may Heaven reward thee; I will give it him."  So the
horse was given to the boy.  Then she went to the grooms and those who tended the horses, and
commanded them to be careful of the horse, so that he might be broken in by the time that the
boy could ride him.

And while these things were going forward, they heard tidings of Rhiannon and her punishment.
And Teirnyon Twryv Vliant, by reason of the pity that he felt on hearing this story of Rhiannon
and her punishment, inquired closely concerning it, until he had heard from many of those who
came to his court.  Then did Teirnyon, often lamenting the sad history, ponder within himself,
and he looked steadfastly on the boy, and as he looked upon him, it seemed to him that he had
never beheld so great a likeness between father and son, as between the boy and Pwyll the Chief
of Annwvyn.  Now the semblance of Pwyll was well known to him, for he had of yore been one
of his followers.  And thereupon he became grieved for the wrong that he did, in keeping with
him a boy whom he knew to be the son of another man.  And the first time that he was alone
with his wife, he told her that it was not right that they should keep the boy with them, and
suffer so excellent a lady as Rhiannon to be punished so greatly on his account, whereas the
boy was the son of Pwyll the Chief of Annwvyn.  And Teirnyon's wife agreed with him, that they
should send the boy to Pwyll.  "And three things, lord," said she, "shall we gain thereby.
Thanks and gifts for releasing Rhiannon from her punishment; and thanks from Pwyll for nursing
his son and restoring him unto him; and thirdly, if the boy is of gentle nature, he will be
our foster-son, and he will do for us all the good in his power."  So it was settled according
to this counsel.

And no later than the next day was Teirnyon equipped, and two other knights with him.  And
the boy, as a fourth in their company, went with them upon the horse which Teirnyon had given
him.  And they journeyed towards Narberth, and it was not long before they reached that place.
And as they drew near to the palace, they beheld Rhiannon sitting beside the horseblock.  And
when they were opposite to her, "Chieftain," said she, "go not further thus, I will bear every
one of you into the palace, and this is my penance for slaying my own son and devouring him."
"Oh, fair lady," said Teirnyon, "think not that I will be one to be carried upon thy back."
"Neither will I," said the boy.  "Truly, my soul," said Teirnyon, "we will not go."  So they
went forward to the palace, and there was great joy at their coming.  And at the palace a feast
was prepared, because Pywll was come back from the confines of Dyved.  And they went into the
hall and washed, and Pwyll rejoiced to see Teirnyon.  And in this order they sat.  Teirnyon
between Pwyll and Rhiannon, and Teirnyon's two companions on the other side of Pwyll, with
the boy between them. And after meat they began to carouse and to discourse.  And Teirnyon's
discourse was concerning the adventure of the mare and the boy, and how he and his wife had
nursed and reared the child as their own.  "And behold here is thy son, lady," said Teirnyon.
"And whosoever told that lie concerning thee, has done wrong.  And when I heard of thy sorrow,
I was troubled and grieved.  And I believe that there is none of this host who will not perceive
that the boy is the son of Pwyll," said Teirnyon.  "There is none," said they all, "who is
not certain thereof."  "I declare to Heaven," said Rhiannon, "that if this be true, there is
indeed an end to my trouble."  "Lady," said Pendaran Dyved, "well hast thou named thy son Pryderi,
{3} and well becomes him the name of Pryderi son of Pwyll Chief of Annwvyn." "Look you," said
Rhiannon, "will not his own name become him better?" "What name has he?" asked Pendaran Dyved.
"Gwri Wallt Euryn is the name that we gave him."  "Pryderi," said Pendaran, "shall his name
be."  "It were more proper," said Pwyll, "that the boy should take his name from the word his
mother spoke when she received the joyful tidings of him."  And thus was it arranged.

"Teirnyon," said Pwyll, "Heaven reward thee that thou hast reared the boy up to this time,
and, being of gentle lineage, it were fitting that he repay thee for it."  "My lord," said
Teirnyon, "it was my wife who nursed him, and there is no one in the world so afflicted as
she at parting with him.  It were well that he should bear in mind what I and my wife have
done for him."  "I call Heaven to witness," said Pwyll, "that while I live I will support thee
and thy possessions, as long as I am able to preserve my own.  And when he shall have power,
he will more fitly maintain them than I.  And if this counsel be pleasing unto thee, and to
my nobles, it shall be that, as thou hast reared him up to the present time, I will give him
to be brought up by Pendaran Dyved, from henceforth.  And you shall be companions, and shall
both be foster-fathers unto him."  "This is good counsel," said they all.  So the boy was given
to Pendaran Dyved, and the nobles of the land were sent with him.  And Teirnyon Twryv Vliant,
and his companions, set out for his country, and his possessions, with love and gladness. 
And he went not without being offered the fairest jewels and the fairest horses, and the choicest
dogs; but he would take none of them.

Thereupon they all remained in their own dominions.  And Pryderi, the son of Pwyll the Chief
of Annwvyn, was brought up carefully as was fit, so that he became the fairest youth, and the
most comely, and the best skilled in all good games, of any in the kingdom.  And thus passed
years and years, until the end of Pwyll the Chief of Annwvyn's life came, and he died.

And Pryderi ruled the seven Cantrevs of Dyved prosperously, and he was beloved by his people,
and by all around him.  And at length he added unto them the three Cantrevs of Ystrad Tywi,
and the four Cantrevs of Cardigan; and these were called the Seven Cantrevs of Seissyllwch.
And when he made this addition, Pryderi the son of Pwyll the Chief of Annwvyn desired to take
a wife.  And the wife he chose was Kicva, the daughter of Gwynn Gohoyw, the son of Gloyw Wallt
Lydan, the son of Prince Casnar, one of the nobles of this Island.

And thus ends this portion of the Mabinogion. Now she was one of the three chief ladies of
this island, and she was the fairest damsel in the world.

And they fixed upon Aberffraw as the place where she should become his bride.  And they went
thence, and towards Aberffraw the hosts proceeded; Matholwch and his host in their ships; Bendigeid
Vran and his host by land, until they came to Aberffraw.  But one thing surprises me above
all."  "What is that?" asked they.  "That Branwen the daughter of Llyr, one of the three chief
ladies of this island, and the daughter of the King of the Island of the Mighty, should have
been given me as my bride, and that after that I should have been insulted; and I marvel that
the insult was not done me before they had bestowed upon me a maiden so exalted as she."

And the next morning they paid Matholwch the horses as long as the trained horses lasted. 
And then they journeyed into another commot, where they paid him with colts until the whole
had been paid, and from thenceforth that commot was called Talebolion.

And a second night sat they together.  "My lord," said Matholwch, "whence hadst thou the cauldron
which thou hast given me?"  "I had it of a man who had been in thy land," said he, "and I would
not give it except to one from there."  "Who was it?" asked he.  "Llassar Llaesgyvnewid; he
came here from Ireland with Kymideu Kymeinvoll, his wife, who escaped from the Iron House in
Ireland, when it was made red hot around them, and fled hither.  And it is a marvel to me that
thou shouldst know nothing concerning the matter."  "Something I do know," said he, "and as
much as I know I will tell thee.  One day I was hunting in Ireland, and I came to the mound
at the head of the lake, which is called the Lake of the Cauldron.  And I beheld a huge yellow-haired
man coming from the lake with a cauldron upon his back. And he was a man of vast size, and
of horrid aspect, and a woman followed after him.  And if the man was tall, twice as large
as he was the woman, and they came towards me and greeted me.  'Verily,' asked I, 'wherefore
are you journeying?'  'Behold, this,' said he to me, 'is the cause that we journey.  At the
end of a month and a fortnight this woman will have a son; and the child that will be born
at the end of the month and the fortnight will be a warrior fully armed.'  So I took them with
me and maintained them.  And they were with me for a year.  And that year I had them with me
not grudgingly. But thenceforth was there murmuring, because that they were with me. For, from
the beginning of the fourth month they had begun to make themselves hated and to be disorderly
in the land; committing outrages, and molesting and harassing the nobles and ladies; and thenceforward
my people rose up and besought me to part with them, and they bade me to choose between them
and my dominions.  And I applied to the council of my country to know what should be done concerning
them; for of their own free will they would not go, neither could they be compelled against
their will, through fighting. And [the people of the country] being in this strait, they caused
a chamber to be made all of iron.  Now when the chamber was ready, there came there every smith
that was in Ireland, and every one who owned tongs and hammer.  And they caused coals to be
piled up as high as the top of the chamber.  And they had the man, and the woman, and the children,
served with plenty of meat and drink; but when it was known that they were drunk, they began
to put fire to the coals about the chamber, and they blew it with bellows until the house was
red hot all around them.  Then was there a council held in the centre of the floor of the chamber.
And the man tarried until the plates of iron were all of a white heat; and then, by reason
of the great heat, the man dashed against the plates with his shoulder and struck them out,
and his wife followed him; but except him and his wife none escaped thence.  And then I suppose,
lord," said Matholwch unto Bendigeid Vran, "that he came over unto thee."  "Doubtless he came
here," said he, "and gave unto me the cauldron."  "In what manner didst thou receive them?"
"I dispersed them through every part of my dominions, and they have become numerous and are
prospering everywhere, and they fortify the places where they are with men and arms, of the
best that were ever seen."  So they took counsel.  And in the council they resolved to go to
Ireland, and to leave seven men as princes here, and Caradawc, the son of Bran, as the chief
of them, and their seven knights.  In Edeyrnion were these men left.  And for this reason were
the seven knights placed in the town.  Now the names of these seven men were, Caradawc the
son of Bran, and Heveydd Hir, and Unic Glew Ysgwyd, and Iddic the son of Anarawc Gwalltgrwn,
and Fodor the son of Ervyll, and Gwlch Minascwrn, and Llassar the son of Llaesar Llaesgygwyd,
and Pendaran Dyved as a young page with them.  It was caused by two rivers; the Lli and the
Archan were they called; and the nations covered the sea.  Then he proceeded with what provisions
he had on his own back, and approached the shore of Ireland.

Now the swineherds of Matholwch were upon the seashore, and they came to Matholwch.  So they
retreated across the river, and broke down the bridge.

Bendigeid Vran came to land, and the fleet with him by the bank of the river.  "Lord," said
his chieftains, "knowest thou the nature of this river, that nothing can go across it, and
there is no bridge over it?"  "What," said they, "is thy counsel concerning a bridge?" "There
is none," said he, "except that he who will be chief, let him be a bridge.  I will be so,"
said he.  And then was that saying first uttered, and it is still used as a proverb.  And when
he had lain down across the river, hurdles were placed upon him, and the host passed over thereby.

And as he rose up, behold the messengers of Matholwch came to him, and saluted him, and gave
him greeting in the name of Matholwch, his kinsman, and showed how that of his goodwill he
had merited of him nothing but good.  "For Matholwch has given the kingdom of Ireland to Gwern
the son of Matholwch, thy nephew and thy sister's son.  And this he places before thee, as
a compensation for the wrong and despite that has been done unto Branwen.  And Matholwch shall
be maintained wheresoever thou wilt, either here or in the Island of the Mighty."  Said Bendigeid
Vran, "Shall not I myself have the kingdom? Then peradventure I may take counsel concerning
your message.  From this time until then no other answer will you get from me." "Verily," said
they, "the best message that we receive for thee, we will convey it unto thee, and do thou
await our message unto him." "I will wait," answered he, "and do you return quickly."

The messengers set forth and came to Matholwch.  "Lord," said they, "prepare a better message
for Bendigeid Vran.  He would not listen at all to the message that we bore him."  "My friends,"
said Matholwch, "what may be your counsel?"  "Lord," said they, "there is no other counsel
than this alone.  He was never known to be within a house, make therefore a house that will
contain him and the men of the Island of the Mighty on the one side, and thyself and thy host
on the other; and give over thy kingdom to his will, and do him homage.  So by reason of the
honour thou doest him in making him a house, whereas he never before had a house to contain
him, he will make peace with thee."  So the messengers went back to Bendigeid Vran, bearing
him this message.

And he took counsel, and in the council it was resolved that he should accept this, and this
was all done by the advice of Branwen, and lest the country should be destroyed.  And this
peace was made, and the house was built both vast and strong.  But the Irish planned a crafty
device, and the craft was that they should put brackets on each side of the hundred pillars
that were in the house, and should place a leathern bag on each bracket, and an armed man in
every one of them.  Then Evnissyen came in before the host of the Island of the Mighty, and
scanned the house with fierce and savage looks, and descried the leathern bags which were around
the pillars.  "What is in this bag?" asked he of one of the Irish.  "Meal, good soul," said
he.  And Evnissyen felt about it until he came to the man's head, and he squeezed the head
until he felt his fingers meet together in the brain through the bone.  And he left that one
and put his hand upon another, and asked what was therein.  "Meal," said the Irishman.  So
he did the like unto every one of them, until he had not left alive, of all the two hundred
men, save one only; and when he came to him, he asked what was there.  "Meal, good soul," said
the Irishman.  And he felt about until he felt the head, and he squeezed that head as he had
done the others.  And, albeit he found that the head of this one was armed, he left him not
until he had killed him.  And then he sang an Englyn:-

"There is in this bag a different sort of meal, The ready combatant, when the assault is made
By his fellow-warriors, prepared for battle."  Then said Morddwydtyllyon, "The gadflies of
Morddwydtyllyon's Cow!"  Caswallawn had flung upon him the Veil of Illusion, so that no one
could see him slay the men, but the sword only could they see.  And it liked him not to slay
Caradawc, because he was his nephew, the son of his cousin.  And now he was the third whose
heart had broke through grief.  Pendaran Dyved, who had remained as a young page with these
men, escaped into the wood," said they.

Then they went on to Harlech, and there stopped to rest, and they provided meat and liquor,
and sat down to eat and to drink.  And there came three birds, and began singing unto them
a certain song, and all the songs they had ever heard were unpleasant compared thereto; and
the birds seemed to them to be at a great distance from them over the sea, yet they appeared
as distinct as if they were close by, and at this repast they continued seven years.  And of
all they had seen of food laid before them, and of all they had heard of, they remembered nothing;
neither of that, nor of any sorrow whatsoever.  And there they remained fourscore years, unconscious
of having ever spent a time more joyous and mirthful.  And they were not more weary than when
first they came, neither did they, any of them, know the time they had been there.  And it
was not more irksome to them having the head with them, than if Bendigeid Vran had been with
them himself.  And because of these fourscore years, it was called "the Entertaining of the
noble Head."  The entertaining of Branwen and Matholwch was in the time that they went to Ireland.

And thus is the story related of those who journeyed over from Ireland.

In Ireland none were left alive, except five pregnant women in a cave in the Irish wilderness;
and to these five women in the same night were born five sons, whom they nursed until they
became grown-up youths.  And they thought about wives, and they at the same time desired to
possess them, and each took a wife of the mothers of their companions, and they governed the
country and peopled it.

And these five divided it amongst them, and because of this partition are the five divisions
of Ireland still so termed.  And they examined the land where the battles had taken place,
and they found gold and silver until they became wealthy.

And thus ends this portion of the Mabinogi, concerning the blow given to Branwen, which was
the third unhappy blow of this island; and concerning the entertainment of Bran, when the hosts
of sevenscore countries and ten went over to Ireland to revenge the blow given to Branwen;
and concerning the seven years' banquet in Harlech, and the singing of the birds of Rhiannon,
and the sojourning of the head for the space of fourscore years.

MANAWYDDAN THE SON OF LLYR HERE IS THE THIRD PORTION OF THE MABINOGI

When the seven men of whom we spoke above had buried the head of Bendigeid Vran, in the White
Mount an London, with its face towards France; Manawyddan gazed upon the town of London, and
upon his companions, and heaved a great sigh; and much grief and heaviness came upon him. 
"Alas, Almighty Heaven, woe is me," he exclaimed, "there is none save myself without a resting-place
this night."  Thou art the third disinherited prince." "I do not, Chieftain," said he; "Heaven
reward thee for thy friendship."  "I would show thee the best friendship in the world if thou
wouldst let me."  "I will, my friend," said he, "and Heaven reward thee.  And when they had
ended the first meal that night, while those who served them ate, they arose and went forth,
and proceeded all four to the Gorsedd of Narberth, and their retinue with them.  Let us go
and see."  So they came into the hall, and there was no man; and they went on to the castle
and to the sleeping-place, and they saw none; and in the mead- cellar and in the kitchen there
was nought but desolation.  So they four feasted, and hunted, and took their pleasure.  And
thus they passed the first year pleasantly, and the second; but at the last they began to be weary.

"Verily," said Manawyddan, "we must not bide thus.  Let us go into Lloegyr, and seek some craft
whereby we may gain our support."  So they went into Lloegyr, and came as far as Hereford.
And they betook themselves to making saddles.  And Manawyddan began to make housings, and he
gilded and coloured them with blue enamel, in the manner that he had seen it done by Llasar
Llaesgywydd.  And he made the blue enamel as it was made by the other man.  And therefore is
it still called Calch Lasar [blue enamel], because Llasar Llaesgywydd had wrought it.

And as long as that workmanship could be had of Manawyddan, neither saddle nor housing was
bought of a saddler throughout all Hereford; till at length every one of the saddlers perceived
that they were losing much of their gain, and that no man bought of them, but him who could
not get what he sought from Manawyddan.  Then they assembled together, and agreed to slay him
and his companions.

Now they received warning of this, and took counsel whether they should leave the city.  "By
Heaven," said Pryderi, "it is not my counsel that we should quit the town, but that we should
slay these boors."  "Not so," said Manawyddan, "for if we fight with them, we shall have evil
fame, and shall be put in prison.  It were better for us to go to another town to maintain
ourselves."  So they four went to another city.

"What craft shall we take?" said Pryderi.  "We will make shields," said Manawyddan.  "Do we
know anything about that craft?" said Pryderi.  "We will try," answered he.  There they began
to make shields, and fashioned them after the shape of the good shields they had seen; and
they enamelled they, as them had done the saddles.  And they prospered in that place, so that
not a shield was asked for in the whole town, but such as was had of them.  Rapid therefore
was their work, and numberless were the shields they made.  But at last they were marked by
the craftsmen, who came together in haste, and their fellow-townsmen with them, and agreed
that they should seek to slay them.  But they received warning, and heard how the men had resolved
on their destruction.  "Pryderi," said Manawyddan, "these men desire to slay us."  "Let us
not endure this from these boors, but let us rather fall upon them and slay them."  "Not so,"
he answered; "Caswallawn and his men will hear of it, and we shall be undone.  Let us go to
another town."  So to another town they went.

"What craft shall we take?" said Manawyddan.  "Whatsoever thou wilt that we know," said Pryderi.
"Not so," he replied, "but let us take to making shoes, for there is not courage enough among
cordwainers either to fight with us or to molest us."  "I know nothing thereof," said Pryderi.

"Pryderi," said Manawyddan, "these men are minded to slay us." "Wherefore should we bear this
from the boorish thieves?" said Pryderi.  "Rather let us slay them all."  "Not so," said Manawyddan,
"we will not slay them, neither will we remain in Lloegyr any longer. Let us set forth to Dyved
and go to see it."

So they journeyed along until they came to Dyved, and they went forward to Narberth.  And there
they kindled fire and supported themselves by hunting.  And thus they spent a month.  And they
gathered their dogs around them, and tarried there one year.

And one morning Pryderi and Manawyddan rose up to hunt, and they ranged their dogs and went
forth from the palace.  Let us go into Lloegyr; it is easiest for us to find support there."
"Gladly, lord," said she, "we will do so."  And they set forth together to Lloegyr.

"Lord," said she, "what craft wilt thou follow?  Take up one that is seemly."

So he began his craft, and he made all his work of the finest leather he could get in the town,
and, as he had done at the other place, he caused gilded clasps to be made for the shoes. 
And except himself all the cordwainers in the town were idle, and without work.  For as long
as they could be had from him, neither shoes nor hose were bought elsewhere.  And thus they
tarried there a year, until the cordwainers became envious, and took counsel concerning him.
And I will know who it is."  So he took his arms, and began to watch the croft.  "Behold I
will tell thee," he answered.  And if thou doest right, thou wilt not meddle with the creature,
but wilt let it go."  Do therefore, lord, as thou wilt."  "If I knew of any cause in the world
wherefore thou shouldst succour it, I would take thy counsel concerning it," said Manawyddan,
"but as I know of none, lady, I am minded to destroy it."  "Do so willingly then," said she.

And then he went to the Gorsedd of Narberth, taking the mouse with him.  And he set up two
forks on the highest part of the Gorsedd.  "As thou wilt, lord," he answered; "except that
I would not see a man of rank equal to thine touching such a reptile, I care nought."  And
the scholar went his way. "Willingly, lord, do thy good pleasure."  "I will know who the mouse
may be." "She is my wife."  "Even though she be, I will not set her free. Wherefore came she
to me?"  "To despoil thee," he answered.  "I am Llwyd the son of Kilcoed, and I cast the charm
over the seven Cantrevs of Dyved.  And it was to avenge Gwawl the son of Clud, from the friendship
I had towards him, that I cast the charm.  And upon Pryderi did I revenge Gwawl the son of
Clud, for the game of Badger in the Bag, that Pwyll Pen Annwvyn played upon him, which he did
unadvisedly in the Court of Heveydd Hen. And it was my own household that went the first night.
And the second night also they went, and they destroyed thy two crofts.  And the third night
came unto me my wife and the ladies of the Court, and besought me to transform them.  And I
transformed them.  Now she is pregnant.  I have now told thee who she is.  Set her therefore
free."  "I will not set her free, by Heaven," said he.  "This thou shalt have," said he.  "Now
set her free."  "I will not, by my faith," he answered. "What wilt thou furthermore?" asked
he.  "What bondage," he inquired, "has there been upon Pryderi and Rhiannon?"  "Pryderi has
had the knockers of the gate of my palace about his neck, and Rhiannon has had the collars
of the asses, after they have been carrying hay, about her neck."

And such had been their bondage.

And by reason of this bondage is this story called the Mabinogi of Mynnweir and Mynord.

And thus ends this portion of the Mabinogi.

MATH THE SON OF MATHONWY THIS IS THE FOURTH PORTION OF THE MABINOGI

Math the son of Mathonwy was lord over Gwynedd, and Pryderi the son of Pwyll was lord over
the one-and-twenty Cantrevs of the South; and these were the seven Cantrevs of Dyved, and the
seven Cantrevs of Morganwc, the four Cantrevs of Ceredigiawn, and the three of Ystrad Tywi.

At that time, Math the son of Mathonwy could not exist unless his feet were in the lap of a
maiden, except only when he was prevented by the tumult of war.  Now the maiden who was with
him was Goewin, the daughter of Pebin of Dol Pebin, in Arvon, and she was the fairest maiden
of her time who was known there.

And Math dwelt always at Caer Dathyl, in Arvon, and was not able to go the circuit of the land,
but Gilvaethwy the son of Don, and Eneyd the son of Don, his nephews, the sons of his sisters,
with his household, went the circuit of the land in his stead.

Now the maiden was with Math continually, and Gilvaethwy the son of Don set his affections
upon her, and loved her so that he knew not what he should do because of her, and therefrom
behold his hue, and his aspect, and his spirits changed for love of her, so that it was not
easy to know him.

One day his brother Gwydion gazed steadfastly upon him.  "Youth," said he, "what aileth thee?"
"Why," replied he, "what seest thou in me?"  "I see," said he, "that thou hast lost thy aspect
and thy hue; what, therefore, aileth thee?"  "My lord brother," he answered, "that which aileth
me, it will not profit me that I should own to any." "What may it be, my soul?" said he.  "Thou
knowest," he said, "that Math the son of Mathonwy has this property, that if men whisper together,
in a tone how low soever, if the wind meet it, it becomes known unto him."  "Yes," said Gwydion,
"hold now thy peace, I know thy intent, thou lovest Goewin."

When he found that his brother knew his intent, he gave the heaviest sigh in the world.  "Be
silent, my soul, and sigh not," he said.  "It is not thereby that thou wilt succeed.  I will
cause," said he, "if it cannot be otherwise, the rising of Gwynedd, and Powys, and Deheubarth,
to seek the maiden.  Be thou of glad cheer therefore, and I will compass it."

So they went unto Math the son of Mathonwy.  "Lord," said Gwydion, "I have heard that there
have come to the South some beasts, such as were never known in this island before."  "What
are they called?" he asked.  "Pigs, lord."  "And what kind of animals are they?"  "They are
small animals, and their flesh is better than the flesh of oxen." "They are small, then?" 
"And they change their names.  Swine are they now called."  "Who owneth them?"  "Pryderi the
son of Pwyll; they were sent him from Annwvyn, by Arawn the king of Annwvyn, and still they
keep that name, half hog, half pig."  "Verily," asked he, "and by what means may they be obtained
from him?"  "I will go, lord, as one of twelve, in the guise of bards, to seek the swine."
"But it may be that he will refuse you," said he.  "My journey will not be evil, lord," said
he; "I will not come back without the swine." "Gladly," said he, "go thou forward."

So he and Gilvaethwy went, and ten other men with them.  And they came into Ceredigiawn, to
the place that is now called Rhuddlan Teivi, where the palace of Pryderi was.  In the guise
of bards they came in, and they were received joyfully, and Gwydion was placed beside Pryderi
that night.

"Of a truth," said Pryderi, "gladly would I have a tale from some of your men yonder."  "Lord,"
said Gwydion, "we have a custom that the first night that we come to the Court of a great man,
the chief of song recites.  Gladly will I relate a tale."  Now Gwydion was the best teller
of tales in the world, and he diverted all the Court that night with pleasant discourse and
with tales, so that he charmed every one in the Court, and it pleased Pryderi to talk with him.

And after this, "Lord," said he unto Pryderi, "were it more pleasing to thee, that another
should discharge my errand unto thee, than that I should tell thee myself what it is?"  "No,"
he answered, "ample speech hast thou."  "Behold then, lord," said he, "my errand.  It is to
crave from thee the animals that were sent thee from Annwvyn." "Verily," he replied, "that
were the easiest thing in the world to grant, were there not a covenant between me and my land
concerning them.  And the covenant is that they shall not go from me, until they have produced
double their number in the land."  "Lord," said he, "I can set thee free from those words,
and this is the way I can do so; give me not the swine to-night, neither refuse them unto me,
and to- morrow I will show thee an exchange for them."

And that night he and his fellows went unto their lodging, and they took counsel.  "Ah, my
men," said he, "we shall not have the swine for the asking."  "Well," said they, "how may they
be obtained?"  "I will cause them to be obtained," said Gwydion.

Then he betook himself to his arts, and began to work a charm.  And he caused twelve chargers
to appear, and twelve black greyhounds, each of them white-breasted, and having upon them twelve
collars and twelve leashes, such as no one that saw them could know to be other than gold.
And upon the horses twelve saddles, and every part which should have been of iron was entirely
of gold, and the bridles were of the same workmanship.  And with the horses and the dogs he
came to Pryderi.

"Good day unto thee, lord," said he.  "Heaven prosper thee," said the other, "and greetings
be unto thee."  "Lord," said he, "behold here is a release for thee from the word which thou
spakest last evening concerning the swine; that thou wouldst neither give nor sell them. Thou
mayest exchange them for that which is better.  And I will give these twelve horses, all caparisoned
as they are, with their saddles and their bridles, and these twelve greyhounds, with their
collars and their leashes as thou seest, and the twelve gilded shields that thou beholdest
yonder."  Now these he had formed of fungus.  "Well," said he, "we will take counsel."  And
they consulted together, and determined to give the swine to Gwydion, and to take his horses
and his dogs and his shields.

Then Gwydion and his men took their leave, and began to journey forth with the pigs.  "Ah,
my comrades," said Gwydion, "it is needful that we journey with speed.  The illusion will not
last but from the one hour to the same to-morrow."

And that night they journeyed as far as the upper part of Ceredigiawn, to the place which,
from that cause, is called Mochdrev still.  And the next day they took their course through
Melenydd, and came that night to the town which is likewise for that reason called Mochdrev
between Keri and Arwystli.  And thence they journeyed forward; and that night they came as
far as that Commot in Powys, which also upon account thereof is called Mochnant, and there
tarried they that night.  And they journeyed thence to the Cantrev of Rhos, and the place where
they were that night is still called Mochdrev.

"My men," said Gwydion, "we must push forward to the fastnesses of Gwynedd with these animals,
for there is a gathering of hosts in pursuit of us."  So they journeyed on to the highest town
of Arllechwedd, and there they made a sty for the swine, and therefore was the name of Creuwyryon
given to that town.  And after they had made the sty for the swine, they proceeded to Math
the son of Mathonwy, at Caer Dathyl.  And when they came there, the country was rising.  "What
news is there here?" asked Gwydion.  "Pryderi is assembling one-and-twenty Cantrevs to pursue
after you," answered they.  "It is marvellous that you should have journeyed so slowly." "Where
are the animals whereof you went in quest?" said Math.  "They have had a sty made for them
in the other Cantrev below," said Gwydion.

Thereupon, lo, they heard the trumpets and the host in the land, and they arrayed themselves
and set forward and came to Penardd in Arvon.

And at night Gwydion the son of Don, and Gilvaethwy his brother, returned to Caer Dathyl; and
Gilvaethwy took Math the son of Mathonwy's couch.  And while he turned out the other damsels
from the room discourteously, he made Goewin unwillingly remain.

And when they saw the day on the morrow, they went back unto the place where Math the son of
Mathonwy was with his host; and when they came there, the warriors were taking counsel in what
district they should await the coming of Pryderi, and the men of the South.  So they went in
to the council.  And it was resolved to wait in the strongholds of Gwynedd, in Arvon.  So within
the two Maenors they took their stand, Maenor Penardd and Maenor Coed Alun.  And there Pryderi
attacked them, and there the combat took place.  And great was the slaughter on both sides;
but the men of the South were forced to flee.  And they fled unto the place which is still
called Nantcall.  And thither did they follow them, and they made a vast slaughter of them
there, so that they fled again as far as the place called Dol Pen Maen, and there they halted
and sought to make peace.

And that he might have peace, Pryderi gave hostages, Gwrgi Gwastra gave he and three-and-twenty
others, sons of nobles.  And after this they journeyed in peace even unto Traeth Mawr; but
as they went on together towards Melenryd, the men on foot could not be restrained from shooting.
Pryderi dispatched unto Math an embassy to pray him to forbid his people, and to leave it between
him and Gwydion the son of Don, for that he had caused all this.  And the messengers came to
Math.  "Of a truth," said Math, "I call Heaven to witness, if it be pleasing unto Gwydion the
son of Don, I will so leave it gladly. Never will I compel any to go to fight, but that we
ourselves should do our utmost."

"Verily," said the messengers, "Pryderi saith that it were more fair that the man who did him
this wrong should oppose his own body to his, and let his people remain unscathed."  "I declare
to Heaven, I will not ask the men of Gwynedd to fight because of me.  If I am allowed to fight
Pryderi myself, gladly will I oppose my body to his."  And this answer they took back to Pryderi.
"Truly," said Pryderi, "I shall require no one to demand my rights but myself."

Then these two came forth and armed themselves, and they fought.  And by force of strength,
and fierceness, and by the magic and charms of Gwydion, Pryderi was slain.  And at Maen Tyriawc,
above Melenryd, was he buried, and there is his grave.

And the men of the South set forth in sorrow towards their own land; nor is it a marvel that
they should grieve, seeing that they had lost their lord, and many of their best warriors,
and for the most part their horses and their arms.

The men of Gwynedd went back joyful and in triumph.  "Lord," said Gwydion unto Math, "would
it not be right for us to release the hostages of the men of the South, which they pledged
unto us for peace? for we ought not to put them in prison."  "Let them then be set free," saith
Math.  So that youth, and the other hostages that were with him, were set free to follow the
men of the South.

Math himself went forward to Caer Dathyl.  Gilvaethwy the son of Don, and they of the household
that were with him, went to make the circuit of Gwynedd as they were wont, without coming to
the Court. Math went into his chamber, and caused a place to be prepared for him whereon to
recline, so that he might put his feet in the maiden's lap.  "Lord," said Goewin, "seek now
another to hold thy feet, for I am now a wife."  "What meaneth this?" said he.  "An attack,
lord, was made unawares upon me; but I held not my peace, and there was no one in the Court
who knew not of it.  Now the attack was made by thy nephews, lord, the sons of thy sister,
Gwydion the son of Don, and Gilvaethwy the son of Don; unto me they did wrong, and unto thee
dishonour."  "Verily," he exclaimed, "I will do to the utmost of my power concerning this matter.
But first I will cause thee to have compensation, and then will I have amends made unto myself.
As for thee, I will take thee to be my wife, and the possession of my dominions will I give
unto thy hands."

And Gwydion and Gilvaethwy came not near the Court, but stayed in the confines of the land
until it was forbidden to give them meat and drink.  At first they came not near unto Math,
but at the last they came.  "Lord," said they, "good day to thee."  "Well," said he, "is it
to make me compensation that ye are come?"  "Lord," they said, "we are at thy will."  "By my
will I would not have lost my warriors, and so many arms as I have done.  You cannot compensate
me my shame, setting aside the death of Pryderi.  But since ye come hither to be at my will,
I shall begin your punishment forthwith."

Then he took his magic wand, and struck Gilvaethwy, so that he became a deer, and he seized
upon the other hastily lest he should escape from him.  And he struck him with the same magic
wand, and he became a deer also.  "Since now ye are in bonds, I will that ye go forth together
and be companions, and possess the nature of the animals whose form ye bear.  And this day
twelvemonth come hither unto me."

At the end of a year from that day, lo there was a loud noise under the chamber wall, and the
barking of the dogs of the palace together with the noise.  "Look," said he, "what is without."
"Lord," said one, "I have looked; there are there two deer, and a fawn with them." Then he
arose and went out.  And when he came he beheld the three animals.  And he lifted up his wand.
"As ye were deer last year, be ye wild hogs each and either of you, for the year that is to
come." And thereupon he struck them with the magic wand.  "The young one will I take and cause
to be baptized."  Now the name that he gave him was Hydwn.  "Go ye and be wild swine, each
and either of you, and be ye of the nature of wild swine.  And this day twelvemonth be ye here
under the wall."

At the end of the year the barking of dogs was heard under the wall of the chamber.  And the
Court assembled, and thereupon he arose and went forth, and when he came forth he beheld three
beasts.  Now these were the beasts that he saw; two wild hogs of the woods, and a well- grown
young one with them.  And he was very large for his age. "Truly," said Math, "this one will
I take and cause to be baptized." And he struck him with his magic wand, and he become a fine
fair auburn-haired youth, and the name that he gave him was Hychdwn.  "Now as for you, as ye
were wild hogs last year, be ye wolves each and either of you for the year that is to come."
Thereupon he struck them with his magic wand, and they became wolves.  "And be ye of like nature
with the animals whose semblance ye bear, and return here this day twelvemonth beneath this wall."

And at the same day at the end of the year, he heard a clamour and a barking of dogs under
the wall of the chamber.  And he rose and went forth.  And when he came, behold, he saw two
wolves, and a strong cub with them.  "This one will I take," said Math, "and I will cause him
to be baptized; there is a name prepared for him, and that is Bleiddwn.  Now these three, such
are they:-

The three sons of Gilvaethwy the false, The three faithful combatants, Bleiddwn, Hydwn, and
Hychdwn the Tall."

Then he struck the two with his magic wand, and they resumed their own nature.  "Oh men," said
he, "for the wrong that ye did unto me sufficient has been your punishment and your dishonour.
Prepare now precious ointment for these men, and wash their heads, and equip them."  And this
was done.

And after they were equipped, they came unto him.  "Oh men," said he, "you have obtained peace,
and you shall likewise have friendship. Give your counsel unto me, what maiden I shall seek."
"Lord," said Gwydion the son of Don, "it is easy to give thee counsel; seek Arianrod, the daughter
of Don, thy niece, thy sister's daughter."

And they brought her unto him, and the maiden came in.  "Ha, damsel," said he, "art thou the
maiden?"  "I know not, lord, other than that I am."  Then he took up his magic wand, and bent
it.  "Step over this," said he, "and I shall know if thou art the maiden."  Then stepped she
over the magic wand, and there appeared forthwith a fine chubby yellow-haired boy.  And at
the crying out of the boy, she went towards the door.  And thereupon some small form was seen;
but before any one could get a second glimpse of it, Gwydion had taken it, and had flung a
scarf of velvet around it and hidden it.  Now the place where he hid it was the bottom of a
chest at the foot of his bed.

"Verily," said Math the son of Mathonwy, concerning the fine yellow- haired boy, "I will cause
this one to be baptized, and Dylan is the name I will give him."

So they had the boy baptized, and as they baptized him he plunged into the sea.  And immediately
when he was in the sea, he took its nature, and swam as well as the best fish that was therein.
And for that reason was he called Dylan, the son of the Wave.  Beneath him no wave ever broke.
And the blow whereby he came to his death, was struck by his uncle Govannon.  The third fatal
blow was it called.

As Gwydion lay one morning on his bed awake, he heard a cry in the chest at his feet; and though
it was not loud, it was such that he could hear it.  Then he arose in haste, and opened the
chest:  and when he opened it, he beheld an infant boy stretching out his arms from the folds
of the scarf, and casting it aside.  And he took up the boy in his arms, and carried him to
a place where he knew there was a woman that could nurse him.  And he agreed with the woman
that she should take charge of the boy.  And that year he was nursed.

And at the end of the year he seemed by his size as though he were two years old.  And the
second year he was a big child, and able to go to the Court by himself.  And when he came to
the Court, Gwydion noticed him, and the boy became familiar with him, and loved him better
than any one else.  Then was the boy reared at the Court until he was four years old, when
he was as big as though he had been eight.

And one day Gwydion walked forth, and the boy followed him, and he went to the Castle of Arianrod,
having the boy with him; and when he came into the Court, Arianrod arose to meet him, and greeted
him and bade him welcome.  "Heaven prosper thee," said he.  "Who is the boy that followeth
thee?" she asked.  "This youth, he is thy son," he answered.  "Alas," said she, "what has come
unto thee that thou shouldst shame me thus? wherefore dost thou seek my dishonour, and retain
it so long as this?"  "Unless thou suffer dishonour greater than that of my bringing up such
a boy as this, small will be thy disgrace."  "What is the name of the boy?" said she.  "Verily,"
he replied, "he has not yet a name."  "Well," she said, "I lay this destiny upon him, that
he shall never have a name until he receives one from me."  "Heaven bears me witness," answered
he, "that thou art a wicked woman.  But the boy shall have a name how displeasing soever it
may be unto thee.  As for thee, that which afflicts thee is that thou art no longer called
a damsel."  And thereupon he went forth in wrath, and returned to Caer Dathyl and there he
tarried that night.

And the next day he arose and took the boy with him, and went to walk on the seashore between
that place and Aber Menei.  And there he saw some sedges and seaweed, and he turned them into
a boat.  And out of dry sticks and sedges he made some Cordovan leather, and a great deal thereof,
and he coloured it in such a manner that no one ever saw leather more beautiful than it.  Then
he made a sail to the boat, and he and the boy went in it to the port of the castle of Arianrod.
And he began forming shoes and stitching them, until he was observed from the castle.  And
when he knew that they of the castle were observing him, he disguised his aspect, and put another
semblance upon himself, and upon the boy, so that they might not be known.  "What men are those
in yonder boat?" said Arianrod.  "They are cordwainers," answered they.  "Go and see what kind
of leather they have, and what kind of work they can do."

So they came unto them.  And when they came he was colouring some Cordovan leather, and gilding
it.  And the messengers came and told her this.  "Well," said she, "take the measure of my
foot, and desire the cordwainer to make shoes for me."  So he made the shoes for her, yet not
according to the measure, but larger.  The shoes then were brought unto her, and behold they
were too large.  "These are too large," said she, "but he shall receive their value.  Let him
also make some that are smaller than they."  Then he made her others that were much smaller
than her foot, and sent them unto her.  "Tell him that these will not go on my feet," said
she.  And they told him this.  "Verily," said he, "I will not make her any shoes, unless I
see her foot."  And this was told unto her.  "Truly," she answered, "I will go unto him."

So she went down to the boat, and when she came there, he was shaping shoes and the boy stitching
them.  "Ah, lady," said he, "good day to thee."  "Heaven prosper thee," said she.  "I marvel
that thou canst not manage to make shoes according to a measure."  "I could not," he replied,
"but now I shall be able."

Thereupon behold a wren stood upon the deck of the boat, and the boy shot at it, and hit it
in the leg between the sinew and the bone. Then she smiled.  "Verily," said she, "with a steady
hand did the lion aim at it."  "Heaven reward thee not, but now has he got a name. And a good
enough name it is.  Llew Llaw Gyffes be he called henceforth."

Then the work disappeared in seaweed and sedges, and he went on with it no further.  And for
that reason was he called the third Gold- shoemaker.  "Of a truth," said she, "thou wilt not
thrive the better for doing evil unto me."  "I have done thee no evil yet," said he. Then he
restored the boy to his own form.  "Well," said she, "I will lay a destiny upon this boy, that
he shall never have arms and armour until I invest him with them."  "By Heaven," said he, "let
thy malice be what it may, he shall have arms."

Then they went towards Dinas Dinllev, and there he brought up Llew Llaw Gyffes, until he could
manage any horse, and he was perfect in features, and strength, and stature.  And then Gwydion
saw that he languished through the want of horses and arms.  And he called him unto him.  "Ah,
youth," said he, "we will go to-morrow on an errand together.  Be therefore more cheerful than
thou art."  "That I will," said the youth.

Next morning, at the dawn of day, they arose.  And they took way along the sea coast, up towards
Bryn Aryen.  And at the top of Cevn Clydno they equipped themselves with horses, and went towards
the Castle of Arianrod.  And they changed their form, and pricked towards the gate in the semblance
of two youths, but the aspect of Gwydion was more staid than that of the other.  "Porter,"
said he, "go thou in and say that there are here bards from Glamorgan."  And the porter went
in.  "The welcome of Heaven be unto them, let them in," said Arianrod.

With great joy were they greeted.  And the hall was arranged, and they went to meat.  When
meat was ended, Arianrod discoursed with Gwydion of tales and stories.  Now Gwydion was an
excellent teller of tales.  And when it was time to leave off feasting, a chamber was prepared
for them, and they went to rest.

In the early twilight Gwydion arose, and he called unto him his magic and his power.  And by
the time that the day dawned, there resounded through the land uproar, and trumpets and shouts.
When it was now day, they heard a knocking at the door of the chamber, and therewith Arianrod
asking that it might be opened.  Up rose the youth and opened unto her, and she entered and
a maiden with her.  "Ah, good men," she said, "in evil plight are we."  "Yes, truly," said
Gwydion, "we have heard trumpets and shouts; what thinkest thou that they may mean?"  "Verily,"
said she, "we cannot see the colour of the ocean by reason of all the ships, side by side.
And they are making for the land with all the speed they can.  And what can we do?" said she.
"Lady," said Gwydion, "there is none other counsel than to close the castle upon us, and to
defend it as best we may."  "Truly," said she, "may Heaven reward you.  And do you defend it.
And here may you have plenty of arms."

And thereupon went she forth for the arms, and behold she returned, and two maidens, and suits
of armour for two men, with her.  "Lady," said he, "do you accoutre this stripling, and I will
arm myself with the help of thy maidens.  Lo, I hear the tumult of the men approaching."  "I
will do so, gladly."  So she armed him fully, and that right cheerfully.  "Hast thou finished
arming the youth?" said he.  "I have finished," she answered.  "I likewise have finished,"
said Gwydion.  "Let us now take off our arms, we have no need of them."  "Wherefore?" said
she.  "Here is the army around the house." "Oh, lady, there is here no army."  "Oh," cried
she, "whence then was this tumult?"  "The tumult was but to break thy prophecy and to obtain
arms for thy son.  And now has he got arms without any thanks unto thee."  "By Heaven," said
Arianrod, "thou art a wicked man. Many a youth might have lost his life through the uproar
thou hast caused in this Cantrev to-day.  Now will I lay a destiny upon this youth," she said,
"that he shall never have a wife of the race that now inhabits this earth."  "Verily," said
he, "thou wast ever a malicious woman, and no one ought to support thee.  Gwydion showed him
also how he had procured arms for the youth.  "Well," said Math, "we will seek, I and thou,
by charms and illusion, to form a wife for him out of flowers.  He has now come to man's stature,
and he is the comeliest youth that was ever beheld."

After she had become his bride, and they had feasted, said Gwydion, "It is not easy for a man
to maintain himself without possessions." "Of a truth," said Math, "I will give the young man
the best Cantrev to hold."  "Lord," said he, "what Cantrev is that?"  "The Cantrev of Dinodig,"
he answered.  Now it is called at this day Eivionydd and Ardudwy.  And the place in the Cantrev
where he dwelt, was a palace of his in a spot called Mur y Castell, on the confines of Ardudwy.
There dwelt he and reigned, and both he and his sway were beloved by all.

One day he went forth to Caer Dathyl, to visit Math the son of Mathonwy.  And on the day that
he set out for Caer Dathyl, Blodeuwedd walked in the Court.  And she heard the sound of a horn.
And after the sound of the horn, behold a tired stag went by, with dogs and huntsmen following
it.  And after the dogs and the huntsmen there came a crowd of men on foot.  "Send a youth,"
said she, "to ask who yonder host may be."  So a youth went, and inquired who they were. "Gronw
Pebyr is this, the lord of Penllyn," said they.  And thus the youth told her.

Gronw Pebyr pursued the stag, and by the river Cynvael he overtook the stag and killed it.
And what with flaying the stag and baiting his dogs, he was there until the night began to
close in upon him. And as the day departed and the night drew near, he came to the gate of
the Court.  "Verily," said Blodeuwedd, "the Chieftain will speak ill of us if we let him at
this hour depart to another land without inviting him in."  "Yes, truly, lady," said they,
"it will be most fitting to invite him."

Then went messengers to meet him and bid him in.  And he accepted her bidding gladly, and came
to the Court, and Blodeuwedd went to meet him, and greeted him, and bade him welcome.  "Lady,"
said he, "Heaven repay thee thy kindness."

When they had disaccoutred themselves, they went to sit down.  And Blodeuwedd looked upon him,
and from the moment that she looked on him she became filled with his love.  And he gazed on
her, and the same thought came unto him as unto her, so that he could not conceal from her
that he loved her, but he declared unto her that he did so. Thereupon she was very joyful.
And all their discourse that night was concerning the affection and love which they felt one
for the other, and which in no longer space than one evening had arisen.  And that evening
passed they in each other's company.

The next day he sought to depart.  But she said, "I pray thee go not from me to-day."  And
that night he tarried also.  And that night they consulted by what means they might always
be together.  "There is none other counsel," said he, "but that thou strive to learn from Llew
Llaw Gyffes in what manner he will meet his death.  And this must thou do under the semblance
of solicitude concerning him."

The next day Gronw sought to depart.  "Verily," said she, "I will counsel thee not to go from
me to-day."  "At thy instance will I not go," said he, "albeit, I must say, there is danger
that the chief who owns the palace may return home."  "To-morrow," answered she, "will I indeed
permit thee to go forth."

The next day he sought to go, and she hindered him not.  "Be mindful," said Gronw, "of what
I have said unto thee, and converse with him fully, and that under the guise of the dalliance
of love, and find out by what means he may come to his death."

That night Llew Llaw Gyffes returned to his home.  And the day they spent in discourse, and
minstrelsy, and feasting.  And at night they went to rest, and he spoke to Blodeuwedd once,
and he spoke to her a second time.  But, for all this, he could not get from her one word.
"What aileth thee?" said he, "art thou well?"  "I was thinking," said she, "of that which thou
didst never think of concerning me; for I was sorrowful as to thy death, lest thou shouldst
go sooner than I." "Heaven reward thy care for me," said he, "but until Heaven take me I shall
not easily be slain"  "For the sake of Heaven, and for mine, show me how thou mightest be slain.
My memory in guarding is better than thine."  "I will tell thee gladly," said he.  "Not easily
can I be slain, except by a wound.  And the spear wherewith I am struck must be a year in the
forming.  And nothing must be done towards it except during the sacrifice on Sundays."  "Is
this certain?" asked she.  "It is in truth," he answered.  "And I cannot be slain within a
house, nor without.  I cannot be slain on horseback nor on foot." "Verily," said she, "in what
manner then canst thou be slain?"  "I will tell thee," said he.  "By making a bath for me by
the side of a river, and by putting a roof over the cauldron, and thatching it well and tightly,
and bringing a buck, and putting it beside the cauldron. Then if I place one foot on the buck's
back, and the other on the edge of the cauldron, whosoever strikes me thus will cause my death."
"Well," said she, "I thank Heaven that it will be easy to avoid this."

No sooner had she held this discourse than she sent to Gronw Pebyr. Gronw toiled at making
the spear, and that day twelvemonth it was ready.  And that very day he caused her to be informed
thereof.

"Lord," said Blodeuwedd unto Llew, "I have been thinking how it is possible that what thou
didst tell me formerly can be true; wilt thou show me in what manner thou couldst stand at
once upon the edge of a cauldron and upon a buck, if I prepare the bath for thee?"  "I will
show thee," said he.

Then she sent unto Gronw, and bade him be in ambush on the hill which is now called Bryn Kyvergyr,
on the bank of the river Cynvael.  She caused also to be collected all the goats that were
in the Cantrev, and had them brought to the other side of the river, opposite Bryn Kyvergyr.

And the next day she spoke thus.  "Lord," said she, "I have caused the roof and the bath to
be prepared, and lo! they are ready." "Well," said Llew, "we will go gladly to look at them."

The day after they came and looked at the bath.  "Wilt thou go into the bath, lord?" said she.
"Willingly will I go in," he answered. So into the bath he went, and he anointed himself. 
"Lord," said she, "behold the animals which thou didst speak of as being called bucks." "Well,"
said he, "cause one of them to be caught and brought here." And the buck was brought.  Then
Llew rose out of the bath, and put on his trowsers, and he placed one foot on the edge of the
bath and the other on the buck's back.

Thereupon Gronw rose up from the bill which is called Bryn Kyvergyr, and he rested on one knee,
and flung the poisoned dart and struck him on the side, so that the shaft started out, but
the head of the dart remained in.  Then he flew up in the form of an eagle and gave a fearful
scream.  And thenceforth was he no more seen.

As soon as he departed Gronw and Blodeuwedd went together unto the palace that night.  And
the next day Gronw arose and took possession of Ardudwy.  And after he had overcome the land,
he ruled over it, so that Ardudwy and Penllyn were both under his sway.

Then these tidings reached Math the son of Mathonwy.  And heaviness and grief came upon Math,
and much more upon Gwydion than upon him. "Lord," said Gwydion, "I shall never rest until I
have tidings of my nephew."  "Verily," said Math, "may Heaven be thy strength."  Then Gwydion
set forth and began to go forward.  And he went through Gwynedd and Powys to the confines.
And when he had done so, he went into Arvon, and came to the house of a vassal, in Maenawr
Penardd. And he alighted at the house, and stayed there that night.  The man of the house and
his house-hold came in, and last of all came there the swineherd.  Said the man of the house
to the swineherd, "Well, youth, hath thy sow come in to-night?"  "She hath," said he, "and
is this instant returned to the pigs."  "Where doth this sow go to?" said Gwydion.  "Every
day, when the sty is opened, she goeth forth and none can catch sight of her, neither is it
known whither she goeth more than if she sank into the earth."  "Wilt thou grant unto me,"
said Gwydion, "not to open the sty until I am beside the sty with thee?"  "This will I do,
right gladly," he answered.

That night they went to rest; and as soon as the swineherd saw the light of day, he awoke Gwydion.
And Gwydion arose and dressed himself, and went with the swineherd, and stood beside the sty.
Then the swineherd opened the sty.  And as soon as he opened it, behold she leaped forth, and
set off with great speed.  And Gwydion followed her, and she went against the course of a river,
and made for a brook, which is now called Nant y Llew.  And there she halted and began feeding.
And Gwydion came under the tree, and looked what it might be that the sow was feeding on. 
And he saw that she was eating putrid flesh and vermin.  Then looked he up to the top of the
tree, and as he looked he beheld on the top of the tree an eagle, and when the eagle shook
itself, there fell vermin and putrid flesh from off it, and these the sow devoured.  And it
seemed to him that the eagle was Llew.  And he sang an Englyn:-

"Oak that grows between the two banks; Darkened is the sky and hill! Shall I not tell him by
his wounds, That this is Llew?"

Upon this the eagle came down until he reached the centre of the tree.  And Gwydion sang another
Englyn:-

"Oak that grows in upland ground, Is it not wetted by the rain?  Has it not been drenched By
nine score tempests? It bears in its branches Llew Llaw Gyffes!"

Then the eagle came down until he was on the lowest branch of the tree, and thereupon this
Englyn did Gwydion sing:-

"Oak that grows beneath the steep; Stately and majestic is its aspect! Shall I not speak it?
That Llew will come to my lap?"

And the eagle came down upon Gwydion's knee.  And Gwydion struck him with his magic wand, so
that he returned to his own form.  No one ever saw a more piteous sight, for he was nothing
but skin and bone.

Then he went unto Caer Dathyl, and there were brought unto him good physicians that were in
Gwynedd, and before the end of the year he was quite healed.

"Lord," said he unto Math the son of Mathonwy, "it is full time now that I have retribution
of him by whom I have suffered all this woe." "Truly," said Math, "he will never be able to
maintain himself in the possession of that which is thy right."  "Well," said Llew, "the sooner
I have my right, the better shall I be pleased."

Then they called together the whole of Gwynedd, and set forth to Ardudwy.  And Gwydion went
on before and proceeded to Mur y Castell. And when Blodeuwedd heard that he was coming, she
took her maidens with her, and fled to the mountain.  And they passed through the river Cynvael,
and went towards a court that there was upon the mountain, and through fear they could not
proceed except with their faces looking backwards, so that unawares they fell into the lake.
And they were all drowned except Blodeuwedd herself, and her Gwydion overtook.  And he said
unto her, "I will not slay thee, but I will do unto thee worse than that.  For I will turn
thee into a bird; and because of the shame thou hast done unto Llew Llaw Gyffes, thou shalt
never show thy face in the light of day henceforth; and that through fear of all the other
birds.  For it shall be their nature to attack thee, and to chase thee from wheresoever they
may find thee.  And thou shalt not lose thy name, but shalt be always called Blodeuwedd." Now
Blodeuwedd is an owl in the language of this present time, and for this reason is the owl hateful
unto all birds.  And even now the owl is called Blodeuwedd.

Then Gronw Pebyr withdrew unto Penllyn, and he dispatched thence an embassy.  And the messengers
he sent asked Llew Llaw Gyffes if he would take land, or domain, or gold, or silver, for the
injury he had received.  "I will not, by my confession to Heaven," said he. "Behold this is
the least that I will accept from him; that he come to the spot where I was when he wounded
me with the dart, and that I stand where he did, and that with a dart I take my aim at him.
And this is the very least that I will accept."

And this was told unto Gronw Pebyr.  "Verily," said he, "is it needful for me to do thus? 
My faithful warriors, and my household, and my foster-brothers, is there not one among you
who will stand the blow in my stead?"  "There is not, verily," answered they.  And because
of their refusal to suffer one stroke for their lord, they are called the third disloyal tribe
even unto this day.  "Well," said he, "I will meet it."

Then they two went forth to the banks of the river Cynvael, and Gronw stood in the place where
Llew Llaw Gyffes was when he struck him, and Llew in the place where Gronw was.  Then said
Gronw Pebyr unto Llew, "Since it was through the wiles of a woman that I did unto thee as I
have done, I adjure thee by Heaven to let me place between me and the blow, the slab thou seest
yonder on the river's bank."  "Verily," said Llew, "I will not refuse thee this."  "Ah," said
he, "may Heaven reward thee."  So Gronw took the slab and placed it between him and the blow.

Then Llew flung the dart at him, and it pierced the slab and went through Gronw likewise, so
that it pierced through his back.  And thus was Gronw Pebyr slain.  And there is still the
slab on the bank of the river Cynvael, in Ardudwy, having the hole through it.  And therefore
is it even now called Llech Gronw.

A second time did Llew Llaw Gyffes take possession of the land, and prosperously did he govern
it.  And, as the story relates, he was lord after this over Gwynedd.  And thus ends this portion
of the Mabinogi.

THE DREAM OF MAXEN WLEDIG

Maxen Wledig was emperor of Rome, and he was a comelier man, and a better and a wiser than
any emperor that had been before him.  And one day he held a council of kings, and he said
to his friends, "I desire to go to-morrow to hunt."  And the next day in the morning he set
forth with his retinue, and came to the valley of the river that flowed towards Rome.  And
he hunted through the valley until mid-day. And with him also were two-and-thirty crowned kings,
that were his vassals; not for the delight of hunting went the emperor with them, but to put
himself on equal terms with those kings.

And the sun was high in the sky over their heads and the heat was great.  And sleep came upon
Maxen Wledig.  And his attendants stood and set up their shields around him upon the shafts
of their spears to protect him from the sun, and they placed a gold enamelled shield under
his head; and so Maxen slept.

And he saw a dream.  And this is the dream that he saw.  He was journeying along the valley
of the river towards its source; and he came to the highest mountain in the world.  And he
thought that the mountain was as high as the sky; and when he came over the mountain, it seemed
to him that he went through the fairest and most level regions that man ever yet beheld, on
the other side of the mountain. And he saw large and mighty rivers descending from the mountain
to the sea, and towards the mouths of the rivers he proceeded.  And as he journeyed thus, he
came to the mouth of the largest river ever seen.  And he beheld a great city at the entrance
of the river, and a vast castle in the city, and he saw many high towers of various colours
in the castle.  And he saw a fleet at the mouth of the river, the largest ever seen.  And he
saw one ship among the fleet; larger was it by far, and fairer than all the others.  Of such
part of the ship as he could see above the water, one plank was gilded and the other silvered
over.  He saw a bridge of the bone of a whale from the ship to the land, and he thought that
he went along the bridge, and came into the ship.  And a sail was hoisted on the ship, and
along the sea and the ocean was it borne.  Then it seemed that he came to the fairest island
in the whole world, and he traversed the island from sea to sea, even to the furthest shore
of the island.  Valleys he saw, and steeps, and rocks of wondrous height, and rugged precipices.
Never yet saw he the like.  And thence he beheld an island in the sea, facing this rugged land.
And between him and this island was a country of which the plain was as large as the sea, the
mountain as vast as the wood.  And from the mountain he saw a river that flowed through the
land and fell into the sea.  And at the mouth of the river he beheld a castle, the fairest
that man ever saw, and the gate of the castle was open, and he went into the castle.  And in
the castle he saw a fair hall, of which the roof seemed to be all gold, the walls of the hall
seemed to be entirely of glittering precious gems, the doors all seemed to be of gold.  Golden
seats he saw in the hall, and silver tables.  And on a seat opposite to him he beheld two auburn-haired
youths playing at chess.  He saw a silver board for the chess, and golden pieces thereon. 
The garments of the youths were of jet-black satin, and chaplets of ruddy gold bound their
hair, whereon were sparkling jewels of great price, rubies, and gems, alternately with imperial
stones.  Buskins of new Cordovan leather on their feet, fastened by slides of red gold.

And beside a pillar in the hall he saw a hoary-headed man, in a chair of ivory, with the figures
of two eagles of ruddy gold thereon. Bracelets of gold were upon his arms, and many rings were
on his hands, and a golden torque about his neck; and his hair was bound with a golden diadem.
He was of powerful aspect.  A chessboard of gold was before him, and a rod of gold, and a steel
file in his hand. And he was carving out chessmen.

And he saw a maiden sitting before him in a chair of ruddy gold.  Not more easy than to gaze
upon the sun when brightest, was it to look upon her by reason of her beauty.  A vest of white
silk was upon the maiden, with clasps of red gold at the breast; and a surcoat of gold tissue
upon her, and a frontlet of red gold upon her head, and rubies and gems were in the frontlet,
alternating with pearls and imperial stones.  And a girdle of ruddy gold was around her.  She
was the fairest sight that man ever beheld.

The maiden arose from her chair before him, and he threw his arms about the neck of the maiden,
and they two sat down together in the chair of gold:  and the chair was not less roomy for
them both, than for the maiden alone.  And as he had his arms about the maiden's neck, and
his cheek by her cheek, behold, through the chafing of the dogs at their leashing, and the
clashing of the shields as they struck against each other, and the beating together of the
shafts of the spears, and the neighing of the horses and their prancing, the emperor awoke.

And when he awoke, nor spirit nor existence was left him, because of the maiden whom he had
seen in his sleep, for the love of the maiden pervaded his whole frame.  Then his household
spake unto him. "Lord," said they, "is it not past the time for thee to take thy food?"  Thereupon
the emperor mounted his palfrey, the saddest man that mortal ever saw, and went forth towards Rome.

And thus he was during the space of a week.  When they of the household went to drink wine
and mead out of golden vessels, he went not with any of them.  When they went to listen to
songs and tales, he went not with them there; neither could he be persuaded to do anything
but sleep.  And as often as he slept, he beheld in his dreams the maiden he loved best; but
except when he slept he saw nothing of her, for he knew not where in the world she was.

One day the page of the chamber spake unto him; now, although he was page of the chamber, he
was king of the Romans.  "Lord," said he, "all the people revile thee."  "Wherefore do they
revile me?" asked the emperor.  "Because they can get neither message nor answer from thee
as men should have from their lord.  This is the cause why thou art spoken evil of."  "Youth,"
said the emperor, "do thou bring unto me the wise men of Rome, and I will tell them wherefore
I am sorrowful."

Then the wise men of Rome were brought to the emperor, and he spake to them.  "Sages of Rome,"
said he, "I have seen a dream.  And in the dream I beheld a maiden, and because of the maiden
is there neither life, nor spirit, nor existence within me."  "Lord," they answered, "since
thou judgest us worthy to counsel thee, we will give thee counsel.  And this is our counsel;
that thou send messengers for three years to the three parts of the world to seek for thy dream.
And as thou knowest not what day or what night good news may come to thee, the hope thereof
will support thee."

So the messengers journeyed for the space of a year, wandering about the world, and seeking
tidings concerning his dream.  But when they came back at the end of the year, they knew not
one word more than they did the day they set forth.  And then was the emperor exceeding sorrowful,
for he thought that he should never have tidings of her whom best he loved.

Then spoke the king of the Romans unto the emperor.  "Lord," said he, "go forth to hunt by
the way thou didst seem to go, whether it were to the east, or to the west."  So the emperor
went forth to the hunt, and he came to the bank of the river.  "Behold," said he, "this is
where I was when I saw the dream, and I went towards the source of the river westward."

And thereupon thirteen messengers of the emperor's set forth, and before them they saw a high
mountain, which seemed to them to touch the sky.  Now this was the guise in which the messengers
journeyed; one sleeve was on the cap of each of them in front, as a sign that they were messengers,
in order that through what hostile land soever they might pass no harm might be done them.
And when they were come over this mountain, they beheld vast plains, and large rivers flowing
there through.

"Behold," said they, "the land which our master saw."

And they went along the mouths of the rivers, until they came to the mighty river which they
saw flowing to the sea, and the vast city, and the many-coloured high towers in the castle.
They saw the largest fleet in the world, in the harbour of the river, and one ship that was
larger than any of the others.  "Behold again," said they, "the dream that our master saw."
And in the great ship they crossed the sea, and came to the Island of Britain.  And they traversed
the island until they came to Snowdon.  "Behold," said they, "the rugged land that our master
saw."  And they went forward until they saw Anglesey before them, and until they saw Arvon
likewise.  "Behold," said they, "the land our master saw in his sleep."  And they saw Aber
Sain, and a castle at the mouth of the river.  The portal of the castle saw they open, and
into the castle they went, and they saw a hall in the castle.  Then said they, "Behold, the
hall which he saw in his sleep."  They went into the hall, and they beheld two youths playing
at chess on the golden bench.  And they beheld the hoary- headed man beside the pillar, in
the ivory chair, carving chessmen. And they beheld the maiden sitting on a chair of ruddy gold.

The messengers bent down upon their knees.  "Empress of Rome, all hail!"  "Ha, gentles," said
the maiden, "ye bear the seeming of honourable men, and the badge of envoys, what mockery is
this ye do to me?"  "We mock thee not, lady; but the Emperor of Rome hath seen thee in his
sleep, and he has neither life nor spirit left because of thee.  Thou shalt have of us therefore
the choice, lady, whether thou wilt go with us and be made empress of Rome, or that the emperor
come hither and take thee for his wife?"  "Ha, lords," said the maiden, "I will not deny what
ye say, neither will I believe it too well.  If the emperor love me, let him come here to seek me."

And by day and night the messengers hied them back.  And when their horses failed, they bought
other fresh ones.  And when they came to Rome, they saluted the emperor, and asked their boon,
which was given to them according as they named it.  "We will be thy guides, lord," said they,
"over sea and over land, to the place where is the woman whom best thou lovest, for we know
her name, and her kindred, and her race."

And immediately the emperor set forth with his army.  And these men were his guides.  Towards
the Island of Britain they went over the sea and the deep.  And he conquered the Island from
Beli the son of Manogan, and his sons, and drove them to the sea, and went forward even unto
Arvon.  And the emperor knew the land when he saw it.  And when he beheld the castle of Aber
Sain, "Look yonder," said he, "there is the castle wherein I saw the damsel whom I best love."
And he went forward into the castle and into the hall, and there he saw Kynan the son of Eudav,
and Adeon the son of Eudav, playing at chess. And he saw Eudav the son of Caradawc, sitting
on a chair of ivory carving chessmen.  And the maiden whom he had beheld in his sleep, he saw
sitting on a chair of gold.  "Empress of Rome," said he, "all hail!"  And the emperor threw
his arms about her neck; and that night she became his bride.

And the next day in the morning, the damsel asked her maiden portion. And he told her to name
what she would.  And she asked to have the Island of Britain for her father, from the Channel
to the Irish Sea, together with the three adjacent Islands, to hold under the empress of Rome;
and to have three chief castles made for her, an whatever places she might choose in the Island
of Britain.  And she chose to have the highest castle made at Arvon.  And they brought thither
earth from Rome that it might be more healthful for the emperor to sleep, and sit, and walk
upon.  After that the two other castles were made for her, which were Caerlleon and Caermarthen.

And one day the emperor went to hunt at Caermarthen, and he came so far as the top of Brevi
Vawr, and there the emperor pitched his tent. And that encamping place is called Cadeir Maxen,
even to this day. And because that he built the castle with a myriad of men, he called it Caervyrddin.
Then Helen bethought her to make high roads from one castle to another throughout the Island
of Britain.  And the roads were made.  And for this cause are they called the roads of Helen
Luyddawc, that she was sprung from a native of this island, and the men of the Island of Britain
would not have made these great roads for any save for her.

Seven years did the emperor tarry in this Island.  Now, at that time, the men of Rome had a
custom, that whatsoever emperor should remain in other lands more than seven years should remain
to his own overthrow, and should never return to Rome again.

So they made a new emperor.  And this one wrote a letter of threat to Maxen.  There was nought
in the letter but only this.  "If thou comest, and if thou ever comest to Rome."  And even
unto Caerlleon came this letter to Maxen, and these tidings.  Then sent he a letter to the
man who styled himself emperor in Rome.  There was nought in that letter also but only this.
"If I come to Rome, and if I come."

And thereupon Maxen set forth towards Rome with his army, and vanquished France and Bugundy,
and every land on the way, and sat down before the city of Rome.

A year was the emperor before the city, and he was no nearer taking it than the first day.
And after him there came the brothers of Helen Luyddawc from the Island of Britain, and a small
host with them, and better warriors were in that small host than twice as many Romans.  And
the emperor was told that a host was seen, halting close to his army and encamping, and no
man ever saw a fairer or better appointed host for its size, nor more handsome standards.

And Helen went to see the hosts, and she knew the standards of her brothers.  Then came Kynan
the son of Eudav, and Adeon the son of Eudav, to meet the emperor.  And the emperor was glad
because of them, and embraced them.

Then they looked at the Romans as they attacked the city.  Said Kynan to his brother, "We will
try to attack the city more expertly than this."  So they measured by night the height of the
wall, and they sent their carpenters to the wood, and a ladder was made for every four men
of their number.  Now when these were ready, every day at mid-day the emperors went to meat,
and they ceased to fight on both sides till all had finished eating.  And in the morning the
men of Britain took their food and they drank until they were invigorated. And while the two
emperors were at meat, the Britons came to the city, and placed their ladders against it, and
forthwith they came in through the city.

The new emperor had no time to arm himself when they fell upon him, and slew him, and many
others with him.  And three nights and three days were they subduing the men that were in the
city and taking the castle.  And others of them kept the city, lest any of the host of Maxen
should come therein, until they had subjected all to their will.

Then spake Maxen to Helen Luyddawc.  "I marvel, lady," said he, "that thy brothers have not
conquered this city for me."  "Lord, emperor," she answered, "the wisest youths in the world
are my brothers.  Go thou thither and ask the city of them, and if it be in their possession
thou shalt have it gladly."  So the emperor and Helen went and demanded the city.  And they
told the emperor that none had taken the city, and that none could give it him, but the men
of the Island of Britain.  Then the gates of the city of Rome were opened, and the emperor
sat on the throne, and all the men of Rome submitted them selves unto him.

The emperor then said unto Kynan and Adeon, "Lords," said he, "I have now had possession of
the whole of my empire.  This host give I unto you to vanquish whatever region ye may desire
in the world."

So they set forth and conquered lands, and castles, and cities.  And they slew all the men,
but the women they kept alive.  And thus they continued until the young men that had come with
them were grown grey-headed, from the length of time they were upon this conquest.

Then spoke Kynan unto Adeon his brother, "Whether wilt thou rather," said he, "tarry in this
land, or go back into the land whence thou didst come forth?"  Now he chose to go back to his
own land, and many with him.  But Kynan tarried there with the other part and dwelt there.

And they took counsel and cut out the tongues of the women, lest they should corrupt their
speech.  And because of the silence of the women from their own speech, the men of Armorica
are called Britons.  From that time there came frequently, and still comes, that language from
the Island of Britain.

And this dream is called the Dream of Maxen Wledig, emperor of Rome. And here it ends.

HERE IS THE STORY OF LLUDD AND LLEVELYS

Beli the Great, the son of Manogan, had three sons, Lludd, and Caswallawn, and Nynyaw; and
according to the story he had a fourth son called Llevelys.  And after the death of Beli, the
kingdom of the Island of Britain fell into the hands of Llud his eldest son; and Lludd ruled
prosperously, and rebuilt the walls of London, and encompassed it about with numberless towers.
And after that he bade the citizens build houses therein, such as no houses in the kingdoms
could equal.  And moreover he was a mighty warrior, and generous and liberal in giving meat
and drink to all that sought them.  And though he had many castles and cities this one loved
he more than any.  And he dwelt therein most part of the year, and therefore was it called
Caer Lludd, and at last Caer London.  And after the stranger-race came there, it was called
London, or Lwndrys.

Lludd loved Llevelys best of all his brothers, because he was a wise and discreet man.  Having
heard that the king of France had died, leaving no heir except a daughter, and that he had
left all his possessions in her hands, he came to Lludd his brother, to beseech his counsel
and aid.  And that not so much for his own welfare, as to seek to add to the glory and honour
and dignity of his kindred, if he might go to France to woo the maiden for his wife.  And forthwith
his brother conferred with him, and this counsel was pleasing unto him.

So he prepared ships and filled them with armed knights, and set forth towards France.  And
as soon as they had landed, they sent messengers to show the nobles of France the cause of
the embassy. And by the joint counsel of the nobles of France and of the princes, the maiden
was given to Llevelys, and the crown of the kingdom with her.  And thenceforth he ruled the
land discreetly, and wisely, and happily, as long as his life lasted.

After a space of time had passed, three plagues fell on the Island of Britain, such as none
in the islands had ever seen the like of.  The first was a certain race that came, and was
called the Coranians; and so great was their knowledge, that there was no discourse upon the
face of the Island, however low it might be spoken, but what, if the wind met it, it was known
to them.  And through this they could not be injured. {4}

The second plague was a shriek which came on every May-eve, over every hearth in the Island
of Britain.  And this went through people's hearts, and so scared them, that the men lost their
hue and their strength, and the women their children, and the young men and the maidens lost
their senses, and all the animals and trees and the earth and the waters, were left barren.

The third plague was, that however much of provisions and food might be prepared in the king's
courts, were there even so much as a year's provision of meat and drink, none of it could ever
be found, except what was consumed in the first night.  And two of these plagues, no one ever
knew their cause, therefore was there better hope of being freed from the first than from the
second and third.

And thereupon King Lludd felt great sorrow and care, because that he knew not how he might
be freed from these plagues.  And he called to him all the nobles of his kingdom, and asked
counsel of them what they should do against these afflictions.  And by the common counsel of
the nobles, Lludd the son of Beli went to Llevelys his brother, king of France, for he was
a man great of counsel and wisdom, to seek his advice.

And they made ready a fleet, and that in secret and in silence, lest that race should know
the cause of their errand, or any besides the king and his counsellors.  And when they were
made ready, they went into their ships, Lludd and those whom he chose with him.  And they began
to cleave the seas towards France.

And when these tidings came to Llevelys, seeing that he knew not the cause of his brother's
ships, he came on the other side to meet him, and with him was a fleet vast of size.  And when
Lludd saw this, he left all the ships out upon the sea except one only; and in that one he
came to meet his brother, and he likewise with a single ship came to meet him.  And when they
were come together, each put his arms about the other's neck, and they welcomed each other
with brotherly love.

After that Lludd had shown his brother the cause of his errand, Llevelys said that he himself
knew the cause of the coming to those lands.  And they took counsel together to discourse on
the matter otherwise than thus, in order that the wind might not catch their words, nor the
Coranians know what they might say.  Then Llevelys caused a long horn to be made of brass,
and through this horn they discoursed.  But whatsoever words they spoke through this horn,
one to the other, neither of them could hear any other but harsh and hostile words.  And when
Llevelys saw this, and that there was a demon thwarting them and disturbing through this horn,
he caused wine to be put therein to wash it.  And through the virtue of the wine the demon
was driven out of the horn.  And when their discourse was unobstructed, Llevelys told his brother
that he would give him some insects whereof he should keep some to breed, lest by chance the
like affliction might come a second time.  And other of these insects he should take and bruise
in water.  And he assured him that it would have power to destroy the race of the Coranians.
That is to say, that when he came home to his kingdom he should call together all the people
both of his own race and of the race of the Coranians for a conference, as though with the
intent of making peace between them; and that when they were all together, he should take this
charmed water, and cast it over all alike.  And he assured him that the water would poison
the race of the Coranians, but that it would not slay or harm those of his own race.

"And the second plague," said he, "that is in thy dominion, behold it is a dragon.  And another
dragon of a foreign race is fighting with it, and striving to overcome it.  And therefore does
your dragon make a fearful outcry.  And on this wise mayest thou come to know this. After thou
hast returned home, cause the Island to be measured in its length and breadth, and in the place
where thou dost find the exact central point, there cause a pit to be dug, and cause a cauldron
full of the best mead that can be made to be put in the pit, with a covering of satin over
the face of the cauldron.  And then, in thine own person do thou remain there watching, and
thou wilt see the dragon fighting in the form of terrific animals.  And at length they will
take the form of dragons in the air.  And last of all, after wearying themselves with fierce
and furious fighting, they will fall in the form of two pigs upon the covering, and they will
sink in, and the covering with them, and they will draw it down to the very bottom of the cauldron.
And they will drink up the whole of the mead; and after that they will sleep.  Thereupon do
thou immediately fold the covering around them, and bury them in a kistvaen, in the strongest
place thou hast in thy dominions, and hide them in the earth.  And as long as they shall bide
in that strong place no plague shall come to the Island of Britain from elsewhere.

"The cause of the third plague," said he, "is a mighty man of magic, who take thy meat and
thy drink and thy store.  And he through illusions and charms causes every one to sleep.  Therefore
it is needful for thee in thy own person to watch thy food and thy provisions.  And lest he
should overcome thee with sleep, be there a cauldron of cold water by thy side, and when thou
art oppressed with sleep, plunge into the cauldron."

Then Lludd returned back unto his land.  And immediately he summoned to him the whole of his
own race and of the Coranians.  And as Llevelys had taught him, he bruised the insects in water,
the which he cast over them all together, and forthwith it destroyed the whole tribe of the
Coranians, without hurt to any of the Britons.

And some time after this, Lludd caused the Island to be measured in its length and in its breadth.
And in Oxford he found the central point, and in that place he caused the earth to be dug,
and in that pit a cauldron to be set, full of the best mead that could be made, and a covering
of satin over the face of it.  And he himself watched that night.  And while he was there,
he beheld the dragons fighting. And when they were weary they fell, and came down upon the
top of the satin, and drew it with them to the bottom of the cauldron.  And when they had drunk
the mead they slept.  And in their sleep, Lludd folded the covering around them, and in the
securest place he had in Snowdon, he hid them in a kistvaen.  Now after that this spot was
called Dinas Emreis, but before that, Dinas Ffaraon.  And thus the fierce outcry ceased in
his dominions.

And when this was ended, King Lludd caused an exceeding great banquet to be prepared.  And
when it was ready, he placed a vessel of cold water by his side, and he in his own proper person
watched it.  And as he abode thus clad with arms, about the third watch of the night, lo, he
heard many surpassing fascinations and various songs.  And drowsiness urged him to sleep. 
Upon this, lest he should be hindered from his purpose and be overcome by sleep, he went often
into the water.  And at last, behold, a man of vast size, clad in strong, heavy armour, came
in, bearing a hamper.  And, as he was wont, he put all the food and provisions of meat and
drink into the hamper, and proceeded to go with it forth.  And nothing was ever more wonderful
to Lludd, than that the hamper should hold so much.

And thereupon King Lludd went after him and spoke unto him thus. "Stop, stop," said he, "though
thou hast done many insults and much spoil erewhile, thou shalt not do so any more, unless
thy skill in arms and thy prowess be greater than mine."

Then he instantly put down the hamper on the floor, and awaited him. And a fierce encounter
was between them, so that the glittering fire flew out from their arms.  And at the last Lludd
grappled with him, and fate bestowed the victory on Lludd.  And he threw the plague to the
earth.  And after he had overcome him by strength and might, he besought his mercy.  "How can
I grant thee mercy," said the king, "after all the many injuries and wrongs that thou hast
done me?" "All the losses that ever I have caused thee," said he, "I will make thee atonement
for, equal to what I have taken.  And I will never do the like from this time forth.  But thy
faithful vassal will I be." And the king accepted this from him.

And thus Lludd freed the Island of Britain from the three plagues. And from thenceforth until
the end of his life, in prosperous peace did Lludd the son of Beli rule the Island of Britain.
And this Tale is called the Story of Lludd and Llevelys.  And thus it ends.

TALIESIN

In times past there lived in Penllyn a man of gentle lineage, named Tegid Voel, and his dwelling
was in the midst of the lake Tegid, and his wife was called Caridwen.  And there was born to
him of his wife a son named Morvran ab Tegid, and also a daughter named Creirwy, the fairest
maiden in the world was she; and they had a brother, the most ill-favoured man in the world,
Avagddu.  Now Caridwen his mother thought that he was not likely to be admitted among men of
noble birth, by reason of his ugliness, unless he had some exalted merits or knowledge.  For
it was in the beginning of Arthur's time and of the Round Table.

So she resolved, according to the arts of the books of the Fferyllt, to boil a cauldron of
Inspiration and Science for her son, that his reception might be honourable because of his
knowledge of the mysteries of the future state of the world.

Then she began to boil the cauldron, which from the beginning of its boiling might not cease
to boil for a year and a day, until three blessed drops were obtained of the grace of Inspiration.

And she put Gwion Bach the son of Gwreang of Llanfair in Caereinion, in Powys, to stir the
cauldron, and a blind man named Morda to kindle the fire beneath it, and she charged them that
they should not suffer it to cease boiling for the space of a year and a day.  And she herself,
according to the books of the astronomers, and in planetary hours, gathered every day of all
charm-bearing herbs.  And one day, towards the end of the year, as Caridwen was culling plants
and making incantations, it chanced that three drops of the charmed liquor flew out of the
cauldron and fell upon the finger of Gwion Bach.  And by reason of their great heat he put
his finger to his mouth, and the instant he put those marvel-working drops into his mouth,
he foresaw everything that was to come, and perceived that his chief care must be to guard
against the wiles of Caridwen, for vast was her skill.  And in very great fear he fled towards
his own land. And the cauldron burst in two, because all the liquor within it except the three
charm-bearing drops was poisonous, so that the horses of Gwyddno Garanhir were poisoned by
the water of the stream into which the liquor of the cauldron ran, and the confluence of that
stream was called the Poison of the Horses of Gwyddno from that time forth.

Thereupon came in Caridwen and saw all the toil of the whole year lost.  And she seized a billet
of wood and struck the blind Morda on the head until one of his eyes fell out upon his cheek.
And he said, "Wrongfully hast thou disfigured me, for I am innocent.  Thy loss was not because
of me."  "Thou speakest truth," said Caridwen, "it was Gwion Bach who robbed me."

And she went forth after him, running.  And he saw her, and changed himself into a hare and
fled.  But she changed herself into a greyhound and turned him.  And he ran towards a river,
and became a fish.  And, as the story says, she bore him nine months, and when she was delivered
of him, she could not find it in her heart to kill him, by reason of his beauty.  So she wrapped
him in a leathern bag, and cast him into the sea to the mercy of God, on the twenty- ninth
day of April.

And the next day when Elphin went to look, there was nothing in the weir.  But as he turned
back he perceived the leathern bag upon a pole of the weir. {6}  "Taliesin be he called," said
Elphin. Let no one be dissatisfied with his own, To despair will bring no advantage. No man
sees what supports him; The prayer of Cynllo will not be in vain; God will not violate his
promise. Never in Gwyddno's weir Was there such good luck as this night. Fair Elphin, dry thy
cheeks! Being too sad will not avail. Although thou thinkest thou hast no gain, Too much grief
will bring thee no good; Nor doubt the miracles of the Almighty: Although I am but little,
I am highly gifted. From seas, and from mountains, And from the depths of rivers, God brings
wealth to the fortunate man. Elphin of notable qualities, Be not displeased at thy misfortune;
Although reclined thus weak in my bag, There lies a virtue in my tongue. While I continue thy
protector Thou hast not much to fear; Remembering the names of the Trinity, None shall be able
to harm thee."  And then Gwyddno Garanhir {7} asked him what he was, whether man or spirit.
Whereupon he sang this tale, and said:-

"First, I have been formed a comely person, In the court of Caridwen I have done penance; Though
little I was seen, placidly received, I was great on the floor of the place to where I was
led; I have been a prized defence, the sweet muse the cause, And by law without speech I have
been liberated By a smiling black old hag, when irritated Dreadful her claim when pursued:
I have fled with vigour, I have fled as a frog, I have fled in the semblance of a crow, scarcely
finding rest; I have fled vehemently, I have fled as a chain, I have fled as a roe into an
entangled thicket; I have fled as a wolf cub, I have fled as a wolf in a wilderness, I have
fled as a thrush of portending language; I have fled as a fox, used to concurrent bounds of
quirks; I have fled as a martin, which did not avail; I have fled as a squirrel, that vainly
hides, I have fled as a stag's antler, of ruddy course, I have fled as iron in a glowing fire,
I have fled as a spear-head, of woe to such as has a wish for it; I have fled as a fierce hull
bitterly fighting, I have fled as a bristly boar seen in a ravine, I have fled as a white grain
of pure wheat, On the skirt of a hempen sheet entangled, That seemed of the size of a mare's
foal, That is filling like a ship on the waters; Into a dark leathern bag I was thrown, And
on a boundless sea I was sent adrift; Which was to me an omen of being tenderly nursed, And
the Lord God then set me at liberty." Three times have I been born, I know by meditation; It
were miserable for a person not to come and obtain All the sciences of the world, collected
together in my breast, For I know what has been, what in future will occur. I will supplicate
my Lord that I get refuge in him, A regard I may obtain in his grace; The Son of Mary is my
trust, great in him is my delight, For in him is the world continually upholden. God has been
to instruct me and to raise my expectation, The true Creator of heaven, who affords me protection;
It is rightly intended that the saints should daily pray, For God, the renovator, will bring
them to him."  And thus was it said.

Now at that time the bards were in great favour with the exalted of the kingdom; and then none
performed the office of those who are now called heralds, unless they were learned men, not
only expert in the service of kings and princes, but studious and well versed in the lineage,
and arms, and exploits of princes and kings, and in discussions concerning foreign kingdoms,
and the ancient things of this kingdom, and chiefly in the annals of the first nobles; and
also were prepared always with their answers in various languages, Latin, French, Welsh, and
English.  And together with this they were great chroniclers, and recorders, and skilful in
framing verses, and ready in making englyns in every one of those languages.  Now of these
there were at that feast within the palace of Maelgwn as many as four-and-twenty, and chief
of them all was one named Heinin Vardd.  Then she asked him in what manner he would set him
free.  And he answered her:-

"A journey will I perform, And to the gate I will come; The hall I will enter, And my song
I will sing; My speech I will pronounce To silence royal bards, In presence of their chief,
I will greet to deride, Upon them I will break And Elphin I will free. Should contention arise,
In presence of the prince, With summons to the bards, For the sweet flowing song, And wizards'
posing lore And wisdom of Druids, In the court of the sons of the Distributor Some are who
did appear Intent on wily schemes, By craft and tricking means, In pangs of affliction To wrong
the innocent, Let the fools be silent, As erst in Badon's fight, - With Arthur of liberal ones
The head, with long red blades; Through feats of testy men, And a chief with his foes. Woe
be to them, the fools, When revenge comes on them. I Taliesin, chief of bards, With a sapient
Druid's words, Will set kind Elphin free From haughty tyrant's bonds. To their fell and chilling
cry, By the act of a surprising steed, From the far distant North, There soon shall be an end.
Let neither grace nor health Be to Maelgwn Gwynedd, For this force and this wrong; And be extremes
of ills And an avenged end To Rhun and all his race: Short be his course of life, Be all his
lands laid waste; And long exile be assigned To Maelgwn Gwynedd!"  And after this Heinin spoke
on this wise. I was instructor to Eli and Enoc; I have been winged by the genius of the splendid
crosier; I have been loquacious prior to being gifted with speech; I was at the place of the
crucifixion of the merciful Son of God; I have been three periods in the prison of Arianrod;
I have been the chief director of the work of the tower of Nimrod; I am a wonder whose origin
is not known. I have been in Asia with Noah in the ark, I have seen the destruction of Sodom
and Gomorra; I have been in India when Roma was built, I am now come here to the remnant of Troia.

I have been with my Lord in the manger of the ass: I strengthened Moses through the water of
Jordan; I have been in the firmament with Mary Magdalene; I have obtained the muse from the
cauldron of Caridwen; I have been bard of the harp to Lleon of Lochlin. I have been on the
White Hill, in the court of Cynvelyn, For a day and a year in stocks and fetters, I have suffered
hunger for the Son of the Virgin, I have been fostered in the land of the Deity, I have been
teacher to all intelligences, I am able to instruct the whole universe. I shall be until the
day of doom on the face of the earth; And it is not known whether my body is flesh or fish.

   Then I was for nine months
   In the womb of the hag Caridwen;
   I was originally little Gwion,
   And at length I am Taliesin."  And Maelgwn
asked the boy Taliesin what was his errand, and he answered him in
song.

"Puny bards, I am trying To secure the prize, if I can; By a gentle prophetic strain I am endeavouring
to retrieve The loss I may have suffered; Complete the attempt I hope, Since Elphin endures
trouble In the fortress of Teganwy, On him may there not be laid Too many chains and fetters;
The Chair of the fortress of Teganwy Will I again seek; Strengthened by my muse I am powerful;
Mighty on my part is what I seek, For three hundred songs and more Are combined in the spell
I sing.

* * * * *

"If you be primary bards To the master of sciences, Declare ye mysteries That relate to the
inhabitants of the world; There is a noxious creature, From the rampart of Satanas, Which has
overcome all Between the deep and the shallow; Equally wide are his jaws As the mountains of
the Alps; Him death will not subdue, Nor hand or blades; There is the load of nine hundred
wagons In the hair of his two paws; There is in his head an eye Green as the limpid sheet of
icicle; Three springs arise In the nape of his neck; Sea-roughs thereon Swim through it; There
was the dissolution of the oxen Of Deivrdonwy the water-gifted.

* * * * *

"Be silent, then, ye unlucky rhyming bards, For you cannot judge between truth and falsehood.
If you be primary bards formed by heaven, Tell your king what his fate will be. It is I who
am a diviner and a leading bard, And know every passage in the country of your king; I shall
liberate Elphin from the belly of the stony tower; And will tell your king what will befall
him. A most strange creature will come from the sea marsh of Rhianedd As a punishment of iniquity
on Maelgwn Gwynedd; His hair, his teeth, and his eyes being as gold, And this will bring destruction
upon Maelgwn Gwynedd." Great God! how the sea whitens When first it comes! Great are its gusts
When it comes from the south; Great are its evaporations When it strikes on coasts. It is in
the field, it is in the wood, Without hand, and without foot, Without signs of old age, Though
it be co-aeval With the five ages or periods And older still, Though they be numberless years.
It is also so wide As the surface of the earth; And it was not born, Nor was it seen. It will
cause consternation Wherever God willeth. On sea, and on land, It neither sees, nor is seen.
Its course is devious, And will not come when desired; On land and on sea, It is indispensable.
It is without an equal, It is four-sided; It is not confined, It is incomparable; It comes
from four quarters; It will not be advised, It will not be without advice. It commences its
journey Above the marble rock, It is sonorous, it is dumb, It is mild, It is strong, it is
bold, When it glances over the land, It is silent, it is vocal, It is clamorous, It is the
most noisy On the face of the earth. It is good, it is bad, It is extremely injurious. It is
concealed, Because sight cannot perceive it. It is noxious, it is beneficial; It is yonder,
it is here; It will discompose, But will not repair the injury; It will not suffer for its
doings, Seeing it is blameless. It is wet, it is dry, It frequently comes, Proceeding from
the heat of the sun, And the coldness of the moon. The moon is less beneficial, Inasmuch as
her heat is less. One Being has prepared it, Out of all creatures, By a tremendous blast, To
wreak vengeance On Maelgwn Gwynedd."

"I adore the Supreme, Lord of all animation, - Him that supports the heavens, Ruler of every
extreme, Him that made the water good for all, Him who has bestowed each gift, and blesses
it; - May abundance of mead be given Maelgwn of Anglesey, who supplies us, From his foaming
meadhorns, with the choicest pure liquor. Since bees collect, and do not enjoy, We have sparkling
distilled mead, which is universally praised. The multitude of creatures which the earth nourishes
God made for man, with a view to enrich him; - Some are violent, some are mute, he enjoys them,
Some are wild, some are tame; the Lord makes them; - Part of their produce becomes clothing;
For food and beverage till doom will they continue. I entreat the Supreme, Sovereign of the
region of peace, To liberate Elphin from banishment, The man who gave me wine, and ale, and
mead, With large princely steeds, of beautiful appearance; May he yet give me; and at the end,
May God of his good will grant me, in honour, A succession of numberless ages, in the retreat
of tranquillity. Elphin, knight of mead, late be thy dissolution!"

And afterwards he sang the ode which is called "The Excellence of the Bards."

"What was the first man Made by the God of heaven; What the fairest flattering speech That
was prepared by leuav; What meat, what drink, What roof his shelter; What the first impression
Of his primary thinking; What became his clothing; Who carried on a disguise, Owing to the
wilds of the country, In the beginning? Wherefore should a stone be hard; Why should a thorn
be sharp-pointed? Who is hard like a flint; Who is salt like brine; Who sweet like honey; Who
rides on the gale; Why ridged should be the nose; Why should a wheel be round; Why should the
tongue be gifted with speech Rather than another member? If thy bards, Heinin, be competent,
Let them reply to me, Taliesin."

And after that he sang the address which is called "The Reproof of the Bards."

"If thou art a bard completely imbued With genius not to be controlled, Be thou not untractable
Within the court of thy king; Until thy rigmarole shall be known, Be thou silent, Heinin, As
to the name of thy verse, And the name of thy vaunting; And as to the name of thy grandsire
Prior to his being baptized. And the name of the sphere, And the name of the element, And the
name of thy language, And the name of thy region. Avaunt, ye bards above, Avaunt, ye bards
below! My beloved is below, In the fetter of Ariansod It is certain you know not How to understand
the song I utter, Nor clearly how to discriminate Between the truth and what is false; Puny
bards, crows of the district, Why do you not take to flight? A bard that will not silence me,
Silence may he not obtain, Till he goes to be covered Under gravel and pebbles; Such as shall
listen to me, May God listen to him."

Then sang he the piece called "The Spite of the Bards."

"Minstrels persevere in their false custom, Immoral ditties are their delight; Vain and tasteless
praise they recite; Falsehood at all times do they utter; The innocent persons they ridicule;
Married women they destroy, Innocent virgins of Mary they corrupt; As they pass their lives
away in vanity, Poor innocent persons they ridicule; At night they get drunk, they sleep the
day; In idleness without work they feed themselves; The Church they hate, and the tavern they
frequent; With thieves and perjured fellows they associate; At courts they inquire after feasts;
Every senseless word they bring forward; Every deadly sin they praise; Every vile course of
life they lead; Through every village, town, and country they stroll; Concerning the gripe
of death they think not; Neither lodging nor charity do they give; Indulging in victuals to
excess. Psalms or prayers they do not use, Tithes or offerings to God they do not pay, On holidays
or Sundays they do not worship; Vigils or festivals they do not heed. The birds do fly, the
fish do swim, The bees collect honey, worms do crawl, Every thing travails to obtain its food,
Except minstrels and lazy useless thieves.

I deride neither song nor minstrelsy, For they are given by God to lighten thought; But him
who abuses them, For blaspheming Jesus and his service."

Taliesin having set his master free from prison, and having protected the innocence of his
wife, and silenced the Bards, so that not one of them dared to say a word, now brought Elphin's
wife before them, and showed that she had not one finger wanting.  Right glad was Elphin, right
glad was Taliesin.

Then he bade Elphin wager the king, that he had a horse both better and swifter than the king's
horses.  And this Elphin did, and the day, and the time, and the place were fixed, and the
place was that which at this day is called Morva Rhiannedd:  and thither the king went with
all his people, and four-and-twenty of the swiftest horses he possessed.  And after a long
process the course was marked, and the horses were placed for running.  Then came Taliesin
with four- and-twenty twigs of holly, which he had burnt black, and he caused the youth who
was to ride his master's horse to place them in his belt, and he gave him orders to let all
the king's horses get before him, and as he should overtake one horse after the other, to take
one of the twigs and strike the horse with it over the crupper, and then let that twig fall;
and after that to take another twig, and do in like manner to every one of the horses, as he
should overtake them, enjoining the horseman strictly to watch when his own horse should stumble,
and to throw down his cap on the spot.  All these things did the youth fulfil, giving a blow
to every one of the king's horses, and throwing down his cap on the spot where his horse stumbled.
And to this spot Taliesin brought his master after his horse had won the race.  And he caused
Elphin to put workmen to dig a hole there; and when they had dug the ground deep enough, they
found a large cauldron full of gold.  And then said Taliesin, "Elphin, behold a payment and
reward unto thee, for having taken me out of the weir, and for having reared me from that time
until now."  And on this spot stands a pool of water, which is to this time called Pwllbair.

After all this, the king caused Taliesin to be brought before him, and he asked him to recite
concerning the creation of man from the beginning; and thereupon he made the poem which is
now called "One of the Four Pillars of Song."

"The Almighty made,
Down the Hebron vale,
With his plastic hands,
   Adam's fair form:

And five hundred years,
Void of any help,
There he remained and lay
   Without a soul.

He again did form,
In calm paradise,
From a left-side rib,
   Bliss-throbbing Eve.

Seven hours they were
The orchard keeping,
Till Satan brought strife,
   With wiles from hell.

Thence were they driven,
Cold and shivering,
To gain their living,
   Into this world.

To bring forth with pain
Their sons and daughters,
To have possession
   Of Asia's land.

Twice five, ten and eight,
She was self-bearing,
The mixed burden
   Of man-woman.

And once, not hidden,
She brought forth Abel,
And Cain the forlorn,
   The homicide.

To him and his mate
Was given a spade,
To break up the soil,
   Thus to get bread.

The wheat pure and white,
Summer tilth to sow,
Every man to feed,
   Till great yule feast.

An angelic hand
From the high Father,
Brought seed for growing
   That Eve might sow;

But she then did hide
Of the gift a tenth,
And all did not sow
   Of what was dug.

Black rye then was found,
And not pure wheat grain,
To show the mischief
   Thus of thieving.

For this thievish act,
It is requisite,
That all men should pay
   Tithe unto God.

Of the ruddy wine,
Planted on sunny days,
And on new-moon nights;
   And the white wine.

The wheat rich in grain
And red flowing wine
Christ's pure body make,
   Son of Alpha.

The wafer is flesh,
The wine is spilt blood,
The Trinity's words
   Sanctify them.

The concealed books
From Emmanuel's hand
Were brought by Raphael
   As Adam's gift,

When in his old age,
To his chin immersed
In Jordan's water,
   Keeping a fast,

Moses did obtain
In Jordan's water,
The aid of the three
   Most special rods.

Solomon did obtain
In Babel's tower,
All the sciences
   In Asia land.

So did I obtain,
In my bardic books,
All the sciences
   Of Europe and Africa.

Their course, their bearing,
Their permitted way,
And their fate I know,
   Unto the end.

Oh! what misery,
Through extreme of woe,
Prophecy will show
   On Troia's race!

A coiling serpent
Proud and merciless,
On her golden wings,
   From Germany.

She will overrun
England and Scotland,
From Lychlyn sea-shore
   To the Severn.

Then will the Brython
Be as prisoners,
By strangers swayed,
   From Saxony.

Their Lord they will praise,
Their speech they will keep,
Their land they will lose,
   Except wild Walia.

Till some change shall come,
After long penance,
When equally rife
   The two crimes come.

Britons then shall have
Their land and their crown,
And the stranger swarm
   Shall disappear.

All the angel's words,
As to peace and war,
Will be fulfilled
   To Britain's race."

He further told the king various prophecies of things that should be in the world, in songs,
as follows.

Footnotes:

{1}  It is also stated, that there is in the Hengwrt Library, a MS. containing the Graal in
Welsh, as early as the time of Henry I.  I had hoped to have added this to the present collection;
but the death of Col. Vaughan, to whom I applied, and other subsequent circumstances, have
prevented me from obtaining access to it.

{2}  Hades.

{3}  The word "Pryder" or "Pryderi" means anxiety.

{4}  The version in the Greal adds, "And their coin was fairy money;" literally, dwarf's money:
that is, money which, when received, appeared to be good coin, but which, if kept, turned into
pieces of fungus, &c.

{5}  This dialogue consists of a series of repartees with a play upon words, which it is impossible
to follow in the translation.

{6}  Taliesin.

{7}  The mention of Gwyddno Garanhir instead of Elphin ab Gwyddno in this place is evidently
an error of some transcriber of the MS.

