Passing through the market place we saw that feature of Honolulu under its most favorable auspices--that
is, in the full glory of Saturday afternoon, which is a festive day with the natives.  The
native girls by twos and threes and parties of a dozen, and sometimes in whole platoons and
companies, went cantering up and down the neighboring streets astride of fleet but homely horses,
and with their gaudy riding habits streaming like banners behind them.  Such a troop of free
and easy riders, in their natural home, the saddle, makes a gay and graceful spectacle.  The
riding habit I speak of is simply a long, broad scarf, like a tavern table cloth brilliantly
colored, wrapped around the loins once, then apparently passed between the limbs and each end
thrown backward over the same, and floating and flapping behind on both sides beyond the horse's
tail like a couple of fancy flags; then, slipping the stirrup-irons between her toes, the girl
throws her chest for ward, sits up like a Major General and goes sweeping by like the wind.

The girls put on all the finery they can on Saturday afternoon--fine black silk robes; flowing
red ones that nearly put your eyes out; others as white as snow; still others that discount
the rainbow; and they wear their hair in nets, and trim their jaunty hats with fresh flowers,
and encircle their dusky throats with home-made necklaces of the brilliant vermillion-tinted
blossom of the ohia; and they fill the markets and the adjacent street with their bright presences,
and smell like a rag factory on fire with their offensive cocoanut oil.

Occasionally you see a heathen from the sunny isles away down in the South Seas, with his face
and neck tatooed till he looks like the customary mendicant from Washoe who has been blown
up in a mine.  Some are tattooed a dead blue color down to the upper lip--masked, as it were
--leaving the natural light yellow skin of Micronesia unstained from thence down; some with
broad marks drawn down from hair to neck, on both sides of the face, and a strip of the original
yellow skin, two inches wide, down the center--a gridiron with a spoke broken out; and some
with the entire face discolored with the popular mortification tint, relieved only by one or
two thin, wavy threads of natural yellow running across the face from ear to ear, and eyes
twinkling out of this darkness, from under shadowing hat-brims, like stars in the dark of the moon.

Moving among the stirring crowds, you come to the poi merchants, squatting in the shade on
their hams, in true native fashion, and surrounded by purchasers.  (The Sandwich Islanders
always squat on their hams, and who knows but they may be the old original "ham sandwiches?"
The thought is pregnant with interest.) The poi looks like common flour paste, and is kept
in large bowls formed of a species of gourd, and capable of holding from one to three or four
gallons.  Poi is the chief article of food among the natives, and is prepared from the taro plant.

The taro root looks like a thick, or, if you please, a corpulent sweet potato, in shape, but
is of a light purple color when boiled.  When boiled it answers as a passable substitute for
bread.  The buck Kanakas bake it under ground, then mash it up well with a heavy lava pestle,
mix water with it until it becomes a paste, set it aside and let if ferment, and then it is
poi--and an unseductive mixture it is, almost tasteless before it ferments and too sour for
a luxury afterward.  But nothing is more nutritious.  When solely used, however, it produces
acrid humors, a fact which sufficiently accounts for the humorous character of the Kanakas.
I think there must be as much of a knack in handling poi as there is in eating with chopsticks.
The forefinger is thrust into the mess and stirred quickly round several times and drawn as
quickly out, thickly coated, just as it it were poulticed; the head is thrown back, the finger
inserted in the mouth and the delicacy stripped off and swallowed--the eye closing gently,
meanwhile, in a languid sort of ecstasy.  Many a different finger goes into the same bowl and
many a different kind of dirt and shade and quality of flavor is added to the virtues of its
contents.

Around a small shanty was collected a crowd of natives buying the awa root.  It is said that
but for the use of this root the destruction of the people in former times by certain imported
diseases would have been far greater than it was, and by others it is said that this is merely
a fancy.  All agree that poi will rejuvenate a man who is used up and his vitality almost annihilated
by hard drinking, and that in some kinds of diseases it will restore health after all medicines
have failed; but all are not willing to allow to the awa the virtues claimed for it.  The natives
manufacture an intoxicating drink from it which is fearful in its effects when persistently
indulged in.  It covers the body with dry, white scales, inflames the eyes, and causes premature
decripitude. Although the man before whose establishment we stopped has to pay a Government
license of eight hundred dollars a year for the exclusive right to sell awa root, it is said
that he makes a small fortune every twelve-month; while saloon keepers, who pay a thousand
dollars a year for the privilege of retailing whiskey, etc., only make a bare living.

We found the fish market crowded; for the native is very fond of fish, and eats the article
raw and alive!  Let us change the subject.

In old times here Saturday was a grand gala day indeed.  All the native population of the town
forsook their labors, and those of the surrounding country journeyed to the city.  Then the
white folks had to stay indoors, for every street was so packed with charging cavaliers and
cavalieresses that it was next to impossible to thread one's way through the cavalcades without
getting crippled.

At night they feasted and the girls danced the lascivious hula hula--a dance that is said to
exhibit the very perfection of educated notion of limb and arm, hand, head and body, and the
exactest uniformity of movement and accuracy of "time."  It was performed by a circle of girls
with no raiment on them to speak of, who went through an infinite variety of motions and figures
without prompting, and yet so true was their "time," and in such perfect concert did they move
that when they were placed in a straight line, hands, arms, bodies, limbs and heads waved,
swayed, gesticulated, bowed, stooped, whirled, squirmed, twisted and undulated as if they were
part and parcel of a single individual; and it was difficult to believe they were not moved
in a body by some exquisite piece of mechanism.

Of late years, however, Saturday has lost most of its quondam gala features.  This weekly stampede
of the natives interfered too much with labor and the interests of the white folks, and by
sticking in a law here, and preaching a sermon there, and by various other means, they gradually
broke it up.  The demoralizing hula hula was forbidden to be performed, save at night, with
closed doors, in presence of few spectators, and only by permission duly procured from the
authorities and the payment of ten dollars for the same.  There are few girls now-a-days able
to dance this ancient national dance in the highest perfection of the art.

The missionaries have christianized and educated all the natives.  They all belong to the Church,
and there is not one of them, above the age of eight years, but can read and write with facility
in the native tongue. It is the most universally educated race of people outside of China.
They have any quantity of books, printed in the Kanaka language, and all the natives are fond
of reading.  They are inveterate church-goers --nothing can keep them away.  All this ameliorating
cultivation has at last built up in the native women a profound respect for chastity--in other
people.  Perhaps that is enough to say on that head.  The national sin will die out when the
race does, but perhaps not earlier.--But doubtless this purifying is not far off, when we reflect
that contact with civilization and the whites has reduced the native population from four hundred
thousand (Captain Cook's estimate,) to fifty-five thousand in something over eighty years!

Society is a queer medley in this notable missionary, whaling and governmental centre. Commissioner
of the Royal"--

"Stuff!  I'm no official.

CHAPTER LXVII.

I still quote from my journal:

I found the national Legislature to consist of half a dozen white men and some thirty or forty
natives.  It was a dark assemblage.  The nobles and Ministers (about a dozen of them altogether)
occupied the extreme left of the hall, with David Kalakaua (the King's Chamberlain) and Prince
William at the head.  The President of the Assembly, His Royal Highness M. Kekuanaoa, [Kekuanaoa
is not of the blood royal.  He derives his princely rank from his wife, who was a daughter
of Kamehameha the Great.  Under other monarchies the male line takes precedence of the female
in tracing genealogies, but here the opposite is the case--the female line takes precedence.
Their reason for this is exceedingly sensible, and I recommend it to the aristocracy of Europe:
They say it is easy to know who a man's mother was, but, etc., etc.] and the Vice President
(the latter a white man,) sat in the pulpit, if I may so term it. The President is the King's
father.  He is an erect, strongly built, massive featured, white-haired, tawny old gentleman
of eighty years of age or thereabouts.  He was simply but well dressed, in a blue cloth coat
and white vest, and white pantaloons, without spot, dust or blemish upon them.  He bears himself
with a calm, stately dignity, and is a man of noble presence.  He was a young man and a distinguished
warrior under that terrific fighter, Kamehameha I., more than half a century ago.  A knowledge
of his career suggested some such thought as this: "This man, naked as the day he was born,
and war-club and spear in hand, has charged at the head of a horde of savages against other
hordes of savages more than a generation and a half ago, and reveled in slaughter and carnage;
has worshipped wooden images on his devout knees; has seen hundreds of his race offered up
in heathen temples as sacrifices to wooden idols, at a time when no missionary's foot had ever
pressed this soil, and he had never heard of the white man's God; has believed his enemy could
secretly pray him to death; has seen the day, in his childhood, when it was a crime punishable
by death for a man to eat with his wife, or for a plebeian to let his shadow fall upon the
King--and now look at him; an educated Christian; neatly and handsomely dressed; a high-minded,
elegant gentleman; a traveler, in some degree, and one who has been the honored guest of royalty
in Europe; a man practiced in holding the reins of an enlightened government, and well versed
in the politics of his country and in general, practical information.  Look at him, sitting
there presiding over the deliberations of a legislative body, among whom are white men--a grave,
dignified, statesmanlike personage, and as seemingly natural and fitted to the place as if
he had been born in it and had never been out of it in his life time.  How the experiences
of this old man's eventful life shame the cheap inventions of romance!"

The christianizing of the natives has hardly even weakened some of their barbarian superstitions,
much less destroyed them.  I have just referred to one of these.  It is still a popular belief
that if your enemy can get hold of any article belonging to you he can get down on his knees
over it and pray you to death.  Therefore many a native gives up and dies merely because he
imagines that some enemy is putting him through a course of damaging prayer.  This praying
an individual to death seems absurd enough at a first glance, but then when we call to mind
some of the pulpit efforts of certain of our own ministers the thing looks plausible.

In former times, among the Islanders, not only a plurality of wives was customary, but a plurality
of husbands likewise.  Some native women of noble rank had as many as six husbands.  A woman
thus supplied did not reside with all her husbands at once, but lived several months with each
in turn.  An understood sign hung at her door during these months.  When the sign was taken
down, it meant "NEXT."

In those days woman was rigidly taught to "know her place."  Her place was to do all the work,
take all the cuffs, provide all the food, and content herself with what was left after her
lord had finished his dinner.  She was not only forbidden, by ancient law, and under penalty
of death, to eat with her husband or enter a canoe, but was debarred, under the same penalty,
from eating bananas, pine-apples, oranges and other choice fruits at any time or in any place.
She had to confine herself pretty strictly to "poi" and hard work.  These poor ignorant heathen
seem to have had a sort of groping idea of what came of woman eating fruit in the garden of
Eden, and they did not choose to take any more chances. But the missionaries broke up this
satisfactory arrangement of things. They liberated woman and made her the equal of man.

The natives had a romantic fashion of burying some of their children alive when the family
became larger than necessary.  The missionaries interfered in this matter too, and stopped it.

To this day the natives are able to lie down and die whenever they want to, whether there is
anything the matter with them or not.  If a Kanaka takes a notion to die, that is the end of
him; nobody can persuade him to hold on; all the doctors in the world could not save him.

A luxury which they enjoy more than anything else, is a large funeral. If a person wants to
get rid of a troublesome native, it is only necessary to promise him a fine funeral and name
the hour and he will be on hand to the minute--at least his remains will.

All the natives are Christians, now, but many of them still desert to the Great Shark God for
temporary succor in time of trouble.  An irruption of the great volcano of Kilauea, or an earthquake,
always brings a deal of latent loyalty to the Great Shark God to the surface.  It is common
report that the King, educated, cultivated and refined Christian gentleman as he undoubtedly
is, still turns to the idols of his fathers for help when disaster threatens.  A planter caught
a shark, and one of his christianized natives testified his emancipation from the thrall of
ancient superstition by assisting to dissect the shark after a fashion forbidden by his abandoned
creed.  But remorse shortly began to torture him.  He grew moody and sought solitude; brooded
over his sin, refused food, and finally said he must die and ought to die, for he had sinned
against the Great Shark God and could never know peace any more.  He was proof against persuasion
and ridicule, and in the course of a day or two took to his bed and died, although he showed
no symptom of disease. His young daughter followed his lead and suffered a like fate within
the week.  Superstition is ingrained in the native blood and bone and it is only natural that
it should crop out in time of distress.  Wherever one goes in the Islands, he will find small
piles of stones by the wayside, covered with leafy offerings, placed there by the natives to
appease evil spirits or honor local deities belonging to the mythology of former days.

In the rural districts of any of the Islands, the traveler hourly comes upon parties of dusky
maidens bathing in the streams or in the sea without any clothing on and exhibiting no very
intemperate zeal in the matter of hiding their nakedness.  When the missionaries first took
up their residence in Honolulu, the native women would pay their families frequent friendly
visits, day by day, not even clothed with a blush. It was found a hard matter to convince them
that this was rather indelicate.  Finally the missionaries provided them with long, loose calico
robes, and that ended the difficulty--for the women would troop through the town, stark naked,
with their robes folded under their arms, march to the missionary houses and then  proceed
to dress!--The natives soon manifested a strong proclivity for clothing, but it was shortly
apparent that they only wanted it for grandeur.  The missionaries imported a quantity of hats,
bonnets, and other male and female wearing apparel, instituted a general distribution, and
begged the people not to come to church naked, next Sunday, as usual.  And they did not; but
the national spirit of unselfishness led them to divide up with neighbors who were not at the
distribution, and next Sabbath the poor preachers could hardly keep countenance before their
vast congregations.  In the midst of the reading of a hymn a brown, stately dame would sweep
up the aisle with a world of airs, with nothing in the world on but a "stovepipe" hat and a
pair of cheap gloves; another dame would follow, tricked out in a man's shirt, and nothing
else; another one would enter with a flourish, with simply the sleeves of a bright calico dress
tied around her waist and the rest of the garment dragging behind like a peacock's tail off
duty; a stately "buck" Kanaka would stalk in with a woman's bonnet on, wrong side before--only
this, and nothing more; after him would stride his fellow, with the legs of a pair of pantaloons
tied around his neck, the rest of his person untrammeled; in his rear would come another gentleman
simply gotten up in a fiery neck-tie and a striped vest.

The poor creatures were beaming with complacency and wholly unconscious of any absurdity in
their appearance.  They gazed at each other with happy admiration, and it was plain to see
that the young girls were taking note of what each other had on, as naturally as if they had
always lived in a land of Bibles and knew what churches were made for; here was the evidence
of a dawning civilization.  The spectacle which the congregation presented was so extraordinary
and withal so moving, that the missionaries found it difficult to keep to the text and go on
with the services; and by and by when the simple children of the sun began a general swapping
of garments in open meeting and produced some irresistibly grotesque effects in the course
of re-dressing, there was nothing for it but to cut the thing short with the benediction and
dismiss the fantastic assemblage.

In our country, children play "keep house;" and in the same high-sounding but miniature way
the grown folk here, with the poor little material of slender territory and meagre population,
play "empire."  There is his royal Majesty the King, with a New York detective's income of
thirty or thirty-five thousand dollars a year from the "royal civil list" and the "royal domain."
He lives in a two-story frame "palace."

And there is the "royal family"--the customary hive of royal brothers, sisters, cousins and
other noble drones and vagrants usual to monarchy, --all with a spoon in the national pap-dish,
and all bearing such titles as his or her Royal Highness the Prince or Princess So-and-so.
Few of them can carry their royal splendors far enough to ride in carriages, however; they
sport the economical Kanaka horse or "hoof it" with the plebeians.

Then there is his Excellency the "royal Chamberlain"--a sinecure, for his majesty dresses himself
with his own hands, except when he is ruralizing at Waikiki and then he requires no dressing.

Next we have his Excellency the Commander-in-chief of the Household Troops, whose forces consist
of about the number of soldiers usually placed under a corporal in other lands.

Next comes the royal Steward and the Grand Equerry in Waiting--high dignitaries with modest
salaries and little to do.

Then we have his Excellency the First Gentleman of the Bed-chamber--an office as easy as it
is magnificent.

Next we come to his Excellency the Prime Minister, a renegade American from New Hampshire,
all jaw, vanity, bombast and ignorance, a lawyer of "shyster" calibre, a fraud by nature, a
humble worshipper of the sceptre above him, a reptile never tired of sneering at the land of
his birth or glorifying the ten-acre kingdom that has adopted him--salary, $4,000 a year, vast
consequence, and no perquisites.

Then we have his Excellency the Imperial Minister of Finance, who handles a million dollars
of public money a year, sends in his annual "budget" with great ceremony, talks prodigiously
of "finance," suggests imposing schemes for paying off the "national debt" (of $150,000,) and
does it all for $4,000 a year and unimaginable glory.

Next we have his Excellency the Minister of War, who holds sway over the royal armies--they
consist of two hundred and thirty uniformed Kanakas, mostly Brigadier Generals, and if the
country ever gets into trouble with a foreign power we shall probably hear from them.  I knew
an American whose copper-plate visiting card bore this impressive legend: "Lieutenant-Colonel
in the Royal Infantry."  To say that he was proud of this distinction is stating it but tamely.
The Minister of War has also in his charge some venerable swivels on Punch-Bowl Hill wherewith
royal salutes are fired when foreign vessels of war enter the port.

Next comes his Excellency the Minister of the Navy--a nabob who rules the "royal fleet," (a
steam-tug and a sixty-ton schooner.)

And next comes his Grace the Lord Bishop of Honolulu, the chief dignitary of the "Established
Church"--for when the American Presbyterian missionaries had completed the reduction of the
nation to a compact condition of Christianity, native royalty stepped in and erected the grand
dignity of an "Established (Episcopal) Church" over it, and imported a cheap ready-made Bishop
from England to take charge.  The chagrin of the missionaries has never been comprehensively
expressed, to this day, profanity not being admissible.

Next comes his Excellency the Minister of Public Instruction.

Next, their Excellencies the Governors of Oahu, Hawaii, etc., and after them a string of High
Sheriffs and other small fry too numerous for computation.

Then there are their Excellencies the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of his
Imperial Majesty the Emperor of the French; her British Majesty's Minister; the Minister Resident,
of the United States; and some six or eight representatives of other foreign nations, all with
sounding titles, imposing dignity and prodigious but economical state.

Imagine all this grandeur in a play-house "kingdom" whose population falls absolutely short
of sixty thousand souls!

The people are so accustomed to nine-jointed titles and colossal magnates that a foreign prince
makes very little more stir in Honolulu than a Western Congressman does in New York.

And let it be borne in mind that there is a strictly defined "court costume" of so "stunning"
a nature that it would make the clown in a circus look tame and commonplace by comparison;
and each Hawaiian official dignitary has a gorgeous vari-colored, gold-laced uniform peculiar
to his office--no two of them are alike, and it is hard to tell which one is the "loudest."
The King had a "drawing-room" at stated intervals, like other monarchs, and when these varied
uniforms congregate there--weak-eyed people have to contemplate the spectacle through smoked
glass.  Is there not a gratifying contrast between this latter-day exhibition and the one the
ancestors of some of these magnates afforded the missionaries the Sunday after the old-time
distribution of clothing? Behold what religion and civilization have wrought!

CHAPTER LXVIII.

While I was in Honolulu I witnessed the ceremonious funeral of the King's sister, her Royal
Highness the Princess Victoria.  According to the royal custom, the remains had lain in state
at the palace thirty days, watched day and night by a guard of honor.  And during all that
time a great multitude of natives from the several islands had kept the palace grounds well
crowded and had made the place a pandemonium every night with their howlings and wailings,
beating of tom-toms and dancing of the (at other times) forbidden "hula-hula" by half-clad
maidens to the music of songs of questionable decency chanted in honor of the deceased.  The
printed programme of the funeral procession interested me at the time; and after what I have
just said of Hawaiian grandiloquence in the matter of "playing empire," I am persuaded that
a perusal of it may interest the reader:

      After reading the long list of dignitaries, etc., and remembering
      the sparseness of the population, one is almost inclined to wonder
      where the material for that portion of the procession devoted to
      "Hawaiian Population Generally" is going to be procured:

Undertaker.
Royal School.  Kawaiahao School.  Roman Catholic School.  Maemae School.
Honolulu Fire Department.
Mechanics' Benefit Union.
Attending Physicians.
Knonohikis (Superintendents) of the Crown Lands, Konohikis of the Private
  Lands of His Majesty Konohikis of the Private Lands of Her late Royal
Highness.
Governor of Oahu and Staff.
Hulumanu (Military Company).
Household Troops.
The Prince of Hawaii's Own (Military Company).
The King's household servants.
Servants of Her late Royal Highness.
Protestant Clergy.  The Clergy of the Roman Catholic Church.
His Lordship Louis Maigret, The Right Rev. Bishop of Arathea,
  Vicar-Apostolic of the Hawaiian Islands.
The Clergy of the Hawaiian Reformed Catholic Church.
His Lordship the Right Rev.  Bishop of Honolulu.
Her Majesty Queen Emma's Carriage.
His Majesty's Staff.
Carriage of Her late Royal Highness.
Carriage of Her Majesty the Queen Dowager.
The King's Chancellor.
Cabinet Ministers.
His Excellency the Minister Resident of the United States.
H. B. M's Commissioner.
H. B. M's Acting Commissioner.
Judges of Supreme Court.
Privy Councillors.
Members of Legislative Assembly.
Consular Corps.
Circuit Judges.
Clerks of Government Departments.
Members of the Bar.
Collector General, Custom-house Officers and Officers of the Customs.
Marshal and Sheriffs of the different Islands.
King's Yeomanry.
Foreign Residents.
Ahahui Kaahumanu.
Hawaiian Population Generally.
Hawaiian Cavalry.
Police Force.

I resume my journal at the point where the procession arrived at the royal mausoleum:

      As the procession filed through the gate, the military deployed
      handsomely to the right and left and formed an avenue through which
      the long column of mourners passed to the tomb.  The coffin was
      borne through the door of the mausoleum, followed by the King and
      his chiefs, the great officers of the kingdom, foreign Consuls,
      Embassadors and distinguished guests (Burlingame and General Van
      Valkenburgh).  Several of the kahilis were then fastened to a
      frame-work in front of the tomb, there to remain until they decay
      and fall to pieces, or, forestalling this, until another scion of
      royalty dies.  At this point of the proceedings the multitude set
      up such a heart-broken wailing as I hope never to hear again.

The soldiers fired three volleys of musketry--the wailing being previously silenced to permit
of the guns being heard.  His Highness Prince William, in a showy military uniform (the "true
prince," this --scion of the house over-thrown by the present dynasty--he was formerly betrothed
to the Princess but was not allowed to marry her), stood guard and paced back and forth within
the door.  The privileged few who followed the coffin into the mausoleum remained sometime,
but the King soon came out and stood in the door and near one side of it.  A stranger could
have guessed his rank (although he was so simply and unpretentiously dressed) by the profound
deference paid him by all persons in his vicinity; by seeing his high officers receive his
quiet orders and suggestions with bowed and uncovered heads; and by observing how careful those
persons who came out of the mausoleum were to avoid "crowding" him (although there was room
enough in the doorway for a wagon to pass, for that matter); how respectfully they edged out
sideways, scraping their backs against the wall and always presenting a front view of their
persons to his Majesty, and never putting their hats on until they were well out of the royal
presence.

He was dressed entirely in black--dress-coat and silk hat--and looked rather democratic in
the midst of the showy uniforms about him.  On his breast he wore a large gold star, which
was half hidden by the lapel of his coat.  He remained at the door a half hour, and occasionally
gave an order to the men who were erecting the kahilis [Ranks of long-handled mops made of
gaudy feathers--sacred to royalty.  They are stuck in the ground around the tomb and left there.]
before the tomb.  He had the good taste to make one of them substitute black crape for the
ordinary hempen rope he was about to tie one of them to the frame-work with. Finally he entered
his carriage and drove away, and the populace shortly began to drop into his wake.  While he
was in view there was but one man who attracted more attention than himself, and that was Harris
(the Yankee Prime Minister).  This feeble personage had crape enough around his hat to express
the grief of an entire nation, and as usual he neglected no opportunity of making himself conspicuous
and exciting the admiration of the simple Kanakas.  Oh! noble ambition of this modern Richelieu!

It is interesting to contrast the funeral ceremonies of the Princess Victoria with those of
her noted ancestor Kamehameha the Conqueror, who died fifty years ago--in 1819, the year before
the first missionaries came.

      "On the 8th of May, 1819, at the age of sixty-six, he died, as he
      had lived, in the faith of his country.  It was his misfortune not
      to have come in contact with men who could have rightly influenced
      his religious aspirations.  Judged by his advantages and compared
      with the most eminent of his countrymen he may be justly styled not
      only great, but good.  To this day his memory warms the heart and
      elevates the national feelings of Hawaiians.  They are proud of
      their old warrior King; they love his name; his deeds form their
      historical age; and an enthusiasm everywhere prevails, shared even
      by foreigners who knew his worth, that constitutes the firmest
      pillar of the throne of his dynasty.

      "In lieu of human victims (the custom of that age), a sacrifice of
      three hundred dogs attended his obsequies--no mean holocaust when
      their national value and the estimation in which they were held are
      considered.  The bones of Kamehameha, after being kept for a while,
      were so carefully concealed that all knowledge of their final
      resting place is now lost.  There was a proverb current among the
      common people that the bones of a cruel King could not be hid; they
      made fish-hooks and arrows of them, upon which, in using them, they
      vented their abhorrence of his memory in bitter execrations."

The account of the circumstances of his death, as written by the native historians, is full
of minute detail, but there is scarcely a line of it which does not mention or illustrate some
by-gone custom of the country. In this respect it is the most comprehensive document I have
yet met with.  I will quote it entire:

      "When Kamehameha was dangerously sick, and the priests were unable
      to cure him, they said: 'Be of good courage and build a house for
      the god' (his own private god or idol), that thou mayest recover.'
      The chiefs corroborated this advice of the priests, and a place of
      worship was prepared for Kukailimoku, and consecrated in the
      evening.  They proposed also to the King, with a view to prolong his
      life, that human victims should be sacrificed to his deity; upon
      which the greater part of the people absconded through fear of
      death, and concealed themselves in hiding places till the tabu [Tabu
      (pronounced tah-boo,) means prohibition (we have borrowed it,) or
      sacred.  The tabu was sometimes permanent, sometimes temporary; and
      the person or thing placed under tabu was for the time being sacred
      to the purpose for which it was set apart.  In the above case the
      victims selected under the tabu would be sacred to the sacrifice]
      in which destruction impended, was past.  It is doubtful whether
      Kamehameha approved of the plan of the chiefs and priests to
      sacrifice men, as he was known to say, 'The men are sacred for the
      King;' meaning that they were for the service of his successor.
      This information was derived from Liholiho, his son.

      "After this, his sickness increased to such a degree that he had not
      strength to turn himself in his bed.  When another season,
      consecrated for worship at the new temple (heiau) arrived, he said
      to his son, Liholiho, 'Go thou and make supplication to thy god; I
      am not able to go, and will offer my prayers at home.'  When his
      devotions to his feathered god, Kukailimoku, were concluded, a
      certain religiously disposed individual, who had a bird god,
      suggested to the King that through its influence his sickness might
      be removed.  The name of this god was Pua; its body was made of a
      bird, now eaten by the Hawaiians, and called in their language alae.
      Kamehameha was willing that a trial should be made, and two houses
      were constructed to facilitate the experiment; but while dwelling in
      them he became so very weak as not to receive food.  After lying
      there three days, his wives, children and chiefs, perceiving that he
      was very low, returned him to his own house.  In the evening he was
      carried to the eating house,  where he took a little food in his
      mouth which he did not swallow; also a cup of water.  The chiefs
      requested him to give them his counsel; but he made no reply, and
      was carried back to the dwelling house; but when near midnight--ten
      o'clock, perhaps--he was carried again to the place to eat; but, as
      before, he merely tasted of what was presented to him.  Then
      Kaikioewa addressed him thus: 'Here we all are, your younger
      brethren, your son Liholiho and your foreigner; impart to us your
      dying charge, that Liholiho and Kaahumanu may hear.' Then Kamehameha
      inquired, 'What do you say?' Kaikioewa repeated, 'Your counsels for
      us.'

