DENNSTAÉDTIA PUNCTILÓBULA[A]

Dicksònia punctilóbula. Dicksònia pilosiúscula

[Footnote A: We again remind our readers that the Latin names in small capitals represent the
newer nomenclature.]

Fronds one to three feet high, minutely glandular and hairy, ovate-lanceolate, pale green,
very thin and mostly bipinnate. Primary pinnæ in outline like the frond; the secondary, pinnatifid
into oblong and obtuse, cut-toothed lobes. Fruit-dots minute, each on a recurved toothlet,
usually one at the upper margin of each lobe. Indusium fixed under the sporangia, appearing
like a tiny green cup filled with spore cases.

While Dennstaédtia is the approved scientific name of this species, the name Dicksònia has
come to be used almost as commonly as hay scented fern or boulder fern. It is one of our most
graceful and delicate species, its long-tapering outline suggesting the bulblet bladder fern.
It delights to cluster around rocks and boulders in upland fields and pastures and in the margin
of rocky woods. It is sweet-scented in drying. A fine species for the fernery and one of the
most decorative of the entire fern family. The effect of the shimmering fronds, so delicately
wrought, flanked by evergreens, is highly artistic. Fine-haired mountain fern, pasture fern,
and hairy Dicksònia are other names. Canada to Tennessee and westward.

Var. cristata has the fronds more or less forked at the top.

THE SENSITIVE AND OSTRICH FERNS

Onoclèa. PTERÉTIS. Mattèuccia. Struthiópteris

(Last three names applied to Ostrich Fern only.)

It is a question whether the sensitive and ostrich fern should be included in the same genus.
They are similar in many respects, but not in all. The sensitive fern has a running rootstock,
scattered fronds, and netted veins; while the ostrich fern has an upright rootstock, fronds
in crowns, and free veins.

(1) SENSITIVE FERN. Onoclèa sensíbilis

Fronds one to three feet high, scattered along a creeping rootstock, broadly triangular, deeply
pinnatifid, with segments sinuately lobed or nearly entire. Veins reticulated with fine meshes.
The fertile fronds shorter, closely bipinnate with the pinnules rolled up into berry-like structures
which contain the spore cases. (The name in Greek means a closed vessel, in allusion to the
berry-like fertile segments.) The sensitive fern is so called from its being very sensitive
to frost. The sterile and fertile fronds are totally unlike, the latter not coming out of the
ground until about July, when they appear like rows of small, green grapes or berries, but
soon turn dark and remain erect all winter, and often do not discharge their spores until the
following spring. The little berry-like structures of the fertile frond represent pinnules,
bearing fruit-dots, around which they are closely rolled. As Waters remarks, "Most ferns hold
the sori in the open hand, but the sensitive fern grasps them tightly in the clenched fist."

Var. obtusilobatà is an abortive form with the fertile segments only partially developed. The
illustration shows several intermediate forms.

(2) OSTRICH FERN

Onoclea struthiópteris. PTERETIS NODULOSA

Struthiópteris Germánica. Matteùccia struthiópteris

Fronds two to eight feet high, growing in a crown; broadly lanceolate, pinnate, the numerous
pinnæ deeply pinnatifid, narrowed toward the channeled stipe. Fertile fronds shorter, pinnate
with margins of the pinnæ revolute into a necklace form containing the sori.

The rootstocks send out slender, underground stolons which bear fronds the next year. Sterile
fronds appear throughout the summer, fertile ones in July. Seen from a distance its graceful
leaf-crowns resemble those of the cinnamon fern. An intermediate form between the fertile and
sterile fronds is sometimes found, as in the sensitive fern. This handsome species thrives
under cultivation. For grace and dignity it is unrivaled, and for aggressiveness it is, perhaps,
equaled only by the lady fern. For the climax of beauty it should be combined with the maidenhair.
The ostrich fern is fairly common in alluvial soil over the United States and Canada.

II

THE FLOWERING FERN FAMILY

OSMUNDÀCEAE

This family is represented in North America by three species, all of which belong to the single
genus.

OSMÚNDA

The osmundas are tall swamp ferns growing in large crowns from strong, thickened rootstocks;
the fruiting portion of the fertile frond much contracted and quite unlike the sterile. Sporangia
large, globular, short-stalked, borne on the margin of the divisions and opening into two valves
by a longitudinal slit. Ring obscure. (From Osmunder, a name of the god Thor.)

(1) FLOWERING FERN, ROYAL FERN

Osmúnda regàlis. Osmunda regàlis, var. SPECTÁBILIS

Fronds pale green, one to six feet high; sterile part bipinnate, each pinna having numerous
pairs of lance-oblong, serrulate pinnules alternate along the midrib. Fruiting panicle of the
frond six to twelve inches long, brown when mature and sometimes leafy.

A magnificent fern, universally admired. Well named by the great Linnæus, regalis, royal, indeed,
in its type of queenly beauty. The wine-colored stipes of the uncoiling fronds shooting up
in early spring, lifting gracefully their pink pinnæ and pretty panicles of bright green spore
cases, throw an indescribable charm over the meadows and clothe even the wet, stagnant swamps
with beauty nor is the attraction less when the showy fronds expand in summer and the green
sporangia are turned to brown. The stout rootstocks are often erect, rising several inches
to a foot above the ground, as if in imitation of a tree fern. The poet Wordworth hints at
somewhat different origin of the name from that given here.

The royal fern may be transplanted with success if given good soil, sufficient shade and plenty
of water. Common in swamps and damp places. Newfoundland to Virginia and northwestward.

(2) INTERRUPTED FERN. CLAYTON'S FERN

Osmunda Claytoniàna

Fronds pinnate, one to five feet high. Pinnæ cut into oblong, obtuse lobes. Fertile fronds
taller than the sterile, having from one to five pairs of intermediate pinnæ contracted and
bearing sporangia.

The fronds have a bluish-green tint; they mature their spores about the last of May. The sterile
fronds may be distinguished from those of the cinnamon fern by not having retained, like those,
a tuft of wool at the base of each pinna. Besides, in Clayton's fern the fronds are broader,
blunter and thinner in texture, and the segments more rounded; the fronds are also more inclined
to curve outwards. They turn yellow in the fall, at times "flooding the woods with golden light,"
but soon smitten by the early frosts they wither and disappear. The interrupted fern is rather
common in damp, rocky woods and pastures; Newfoundland to Minnesota, south to North Carolina
and Missouri. Although fond of moisture it is easily cultivated and its graceful outlines make
it worthy of a prominent place in the fern garden. Var. dubia has the pinnules of the sterile
frond widely separated, and the upper-middle ones much elongated. Southern Vermont.

(3) CINNAMON FERN. BRAKES

Osmunda cinnamomea

Fronds one to six feet long, pinnate. Pinnæ lanceolate, pinnatifid with oblong, obtuse divisions.
Fertile pinnæ on separate fronds, which are contracted and covered with brown sporangia.

Each fertile frond springs up at first outside the sterile ones, but is soon surrounded and
overtopped by them and finds itself in the center of a charming circle of green leaves curving
gracefully outwards. In a short time, however, it withers and hangs down or falls to the ground.
The large, conspicuous clusters of cinnamon ferns give picturesqueness to many a moist, hillside
pasture and swampy woodyard. In its crosier stage it is wrapped in wool, which falls away as
the fronds expand, but leaves, at the base of each pinna, a tiny tuft, as if to mark its identity.

Many people in the country call the cinnamon fern the "buckhorn brake," and eat with relish
the tender part which they find deep within the crown at the base of the unfolding fronds.
This is known as the "heart of Osmund." The fern, itself, with its tall, recurving leaves makes
a beautiful ornament for the shady lawn, and like the interrupted fern is easy to cultivate.
The spores of all the osmundas are green, and need to germinate quickly or they lose their
vitality. Common in low and swampy grounds in eastern North America and South America and Japan.
May. Some think it was this species which was coupled with the serpent in the old rhyme,

  "Break the first brake you see,
  Kill the first snake you see,
  And you will conquer every enemy."

Var. frondòsa has its fronds partly sterile below and irregularly fertile towards the summit.

Var. incìsa has the inner pinnules of some of the pinnæ more or less cut-toothed.

Var. glandulòsa has glandular hairs on the pinnæ, rachis and even the stipes of the sterile
frond. This is known only on the coastal plain from Rhode Island to Maryland.

III

CURLY GRASS FAMILY

SCHIZÆÀCEÆ

CURLY GRASS. Schizàea pusílla

Small, slender ferns with linear or thready leaves, the sterile, one to two inches high and
tortuous or "curled like corkscrews"; fertile fronds longer, three to five inches, and bearing
at the top about five pairs of minute, fruited pinnæ. Sporangia large, ovoid, sessile in a
double row along the single vein of the narrow divisions of the fertile leaves, and provided
with a complete apical ring. (Schizæa, from a Greek root meaning to split, alluding to the
cleft leaves of foreign species.)

The curly grass is so minute that it is difficult to distinguish it when growing amid its companion
plants, the grasses, mosses, sundews, club mosses, etc. The sterile leaves are evergreen. Pine
barrens of New Jersey, Grand Lake, Nova Scotia, and in New Brunswick. Several new stations
for the curly grass have recently been discovered in the southwest counties of Nova Scotia
by the Gray Herbarium expedition, mostly in bogs and hollows of sandy peat or sphagnum.

CLIMBING FERN. HARTFORD FERN

Lygòdium palmàtum

  "And where upon the meadow's breast
  The shadow of the thicket lies."
  BRYANT.

Fronds slender, climbing or twining, three to five feet long. The lower pinnæ (frondlets) sterile,
roundish, five to seven lobed, distant in pairs with simple veins; the upper fertile, contracted,
several times forked, forming a terminal panicle; the ultimate segments crowded, and bearing
the sporangia, which are similar to those of curly grass, and fixed to a veinlet by the inner
side next the base, one or rarely two covered by each indusium. (From the Greek meaning like
a willow twig [pliant], alluding to the flexible stipes.)

Fifty years ago this beautiful fern was more common than at present. There was a considerable
colony in a low, alluvial meadow thicket at North Hadley, Mass., not far from Mt. Toby, where
we collected it freely in 1872. Many used to decorate their homes with its handsome sprays,
draping it gracefully over mirrors and pictures. It was known locally as the Hartford fern.
Greedy spoilers ruthlessly robbed its colonies and it became scarce, at least in the Mt. Toby
region. In Connecticut a law was enacted in 1867 for its protection and with good results.
But as Mr. C.A. Weatherby states in the American Fern Journal (Vol. II, No. 4), the encroachments
of tillage (mainly of tobacco, which likes the same soil), are forcing it from its cherished
haunts, thus jeopardizing its survival. Doubtless an aggressive agriculture is in part responsible
for its scarcity in the more northern locality. It is still found here and there in New England,
New York and New Jersey; also in Kentucky, Tennessee and Florida, but is nowhere common. The
fertile portion dies when the spores mature, but the sterile frondlets remain green through
the winter. A handsome species for the fernery in the house or out of doors.

IV

ADDER'S TONGUE FAMILY

OPHIOGLOSSÀCEÆ

Plants more or less fern-like consisting of a stem with a single leaf. In Ophioglóssum the
leaf or sterile segment is entire, the veins reticulated and the sporangia in a simple spike.
In Botrýchium the sterile segment is more or less incised, the veins free, and the sori in
a panicle or compound or rarely simple spike. Sporangia naked, opening by a transverse slit.
Spores copious, sulphur-yellow.

ADDER'S TONGUE. Ophioglóssum vulgàtum

Rootstock erect, fleshy. Stem simple, two to ten inches high, bearing one smooth, entire leaf
about midway, and a terminal spike embracing the sporangia, coherent in two ranks on its edges.
(Generic name from the Greek meaning the tongue of a snake, in allusion to the narrow spike
of the sporangia.)

In moist meadows or rarely on dry slopes. "Overlooked rather than rare." New England states
and in general widely distributed. July. Often grows in company with the ragged orchis. The
ancient ointment known as "adder's speare ointment" had the adder's tongue leaves as a chief
ingredient, and is said to be still used for wounds in English villages.

  "For them that are with newts or snakes or adders stung,
  He seeketh out a herb that's called adder's tongue."

Var. minus, smaller; fronds often in pairs. The sterile segment yellowish-green, attached usually
much below the middle of the plant. Sandy ground, New Hampshire to New Jersey.

Var. Engelmánni. (Given specific rank in Gray.) Has the sterile segment thicker and cuspidate,
the stipe slender and the secondary veins forming a fine network within the meshes of the principal
ones. Virginia and westward.

Var. arenàrium. (From the Latin, arèna, meaning sand, being found in a sandy soil.) Probably
a depauperate form of Ophióglossum vulgàtum and about half as large. A colony of these ferns
was discovered growing in poor soil at Holly Beach, New Jersey.

KEY TO THE GRAPE FERNS

(Botrýchium)

Plant large, fruiting in June, sterile part much divided:
                                                  Rattlesnake Fern.
Plant smaller:
    Fruiting in autumn, sterile part long-stalked, triangular.
                                                  Common Grape Fern.
    Fruiting in summer:
        Plant fleshy, sterile part mostly with lunate segments.
                                                           Moonwort.
        Plant less fleshy, segments not lunate:
            Sterile part short-stalked above the middle of the stem.
                                                     Matricary Fern.
            Sterile part stalked usually below middle of stem.
                                                  Little Grape Fern.
            Sterile part sessile near the top of the stem.
                                            Lance-leaved Grape Fern.

GRAPE FERNS

Botrýchium

Rootstock very short, erect with clustered fleshy roots; the base of the sheathed stalk containing
the bud for the next year's frond. Fertile frond one to three pinnate, the contracted divisions
bearing a double row of sessile, naked, globular sporangia, opening transversely into two valves.
Sterile segment of the frond ternately or pinnately divided or compound. Veins free. Spores
copious, sulphur yellow. (The name in Greek means a cluster of grapes, alluding to the grape-like
clusters of the sporangia.)

(1) MOONWORT. Botrýchium Lunària

Very fleshy, three to ten inches high, sterile segment subsessile, borne near the middle of
the plant, oblong, simple pinnate with three to eight pairs of lunate or fan-shaped divisions,
obtusely crenate, the veins repeatedly forking; fertile segment panicled, two to three pinnate.

The moonwort was formerly associated with many superstitions and was reputed to open all locks
at a mere touch, and to unshoe all horses that trod upon it. "Unshoe the horse" was one of
the names given to it by the country people.

In dry pastures, Lake Superior and northward, but rare in the United States. Willoughby, Vt.,
where the author found a single plant in 1904, and St. Johnsbury, Vt. Also New York, Michigan
and westward.

In England said to be local rather than rare. Sometimes called Lunary.

(2) LITTLE GRAPE FERN. Botrychium símplex

Fronds two to four inches high, very variable. Sterile segment short-petioled, usually near
the middle, simple and roundish or pinnately three to seven lobed. Veins all forking from the
base. Fertile segments simple or one to two pinnate, apex of both segments erect in the bud.

In moist woods and fields, Canada to Maryland and westward; Conway and Plainfield, Mass., Berlin
and Litchfield, Conn. Rare. According to Pringle it is "abundantly scattered over Vermont,
its habitat usually poor soil, especially knolls of hill pastures." May or June.

(3) LANCE-LEAVED GRAPE FERN

Botrychium lanceolàtum

BOTRÝCHIUM ANGUSTISEGMÉNTUM

Frond two to nine inches high, both sterile and fertile segments at the top of the common stalk.
Sterile segment triangular, twice pinnatifid, the acute lobes lanceolate, incised or toothed,
scarcely fleshy, resembling a very small specimen of the rattlesnake fern. Fertile segment
slightly overtopping the sterile, two to three pinnate and spreading.

One of the constant companions of the rattlesnake fern. New England to Lake Superior. July.

(4) MATRICARY FERN

Botrychium ramòsum. Botrychium matricariæfòlium

Fronds small, one to twelve inches high. Sterile segment above the middle, usually much divided.
Fertile segment twice or thrice pinnate. Apex of both segments turned down in the bud, the
sterile overtopping and clasping the fertile one.

The matricary fern differs from the preceding in ripening its spores about a month earlier,
in having its sterile frond stalked, besides being a taller and fleshier plant. It may also
be noted that in the lance-leaved species the midveins of the larger lobes are continuous,
running to the tip; whereas in the matricary fern the midveins fork repeatedly and are soon
indistinguishable from the veinlets. The two are apt to grow near each other, with the rattlesnake
fern as a near neighbor. June.

NOTE. In 1897 A.A. Eaton discovered certain Botrychia in a sphagnum swamp in New Hampshire,
to which he gave the specific name of Botrychium tenebròsum. The plants were very small, not
averaging above two or three inches high, with the sterile blade sessile or slightly stalked.
Many botanists prefer to place this fern as a variety of the matricary, but others regard it
as a form of Botrychium símplex. Borders of maple swamps, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
and New York.

(5) COMMON GRAPE FERN

Botrychium oblìquum. Botrychium ternàtum, var. oblìquum

BOTRYCHIUM DISSÉCTUM, var. OBLÌQUUM

Rootstock short, its base including the buds of succeeding years. Fronds two to twelve inches
or more high. Leafy or sterile segment triangular, ternate, long-petioled, springing from near
the base of the plant, and spreading horizontally. From the main leafstock grow several pairs
of stalked pinnæ, with the divisions ovate-oblong, acutish, crenate-serrulate, obliquely cordate
or subcordate. Fertile segment taller, erect, about three times pinnate, maturing its fruit
in autumn. Occasionally two or three fertile spikes grow on the same plant. In vernation the
apex of each segment is bent down with a slight curve inward.

New England to Virginia, westward to Minnesota and southward.

Botrychium obliquum, var. dissectum. Similar to the type, but with the divisions very finely
dissected or incisely many-toothed, the most beautiful of all the grape ferns. There is considerable
variety in the cutting of the fronds. Maine to Florida and westward.

Botrychium oblìquum, var. oneidénse. Ultimate segments oblong, rounded at the apex, crenulate-serrate,
less divided than any of the others and, perhaps, less common. Vermont to Central New York.

Botrychium oblìquum, var. elongàtum. Divisions lanceolate, elongated, acute.

Note: A Botrychium not uncommon in Georgia and Alabama, named by Swartz B. lunarioides, deserves
careful study. It is known as the "Southern Botrychium."

(6) TERNATE GRAPE FERN

Botrýchium ternàtum, var. intermèdium

Botrýchium oblìquum, var. intermèdium

Leaf more divided than in oblìquum and the numerous segments not so long and pointed, but large,
fleshy, ovate or obovate (including var. austràle), crenulate, and more or less toothed.

Sandy soil, pastures and open woods. More northerly in its range--New England and New York.
Var. rutaefòlium. More slender, rarely over six or seven inches high; sterile segment about
two inches broad, its divisions few, broadly ovate, the lowest sublunate. The first variety
passes insensibly into the second.

(7) RATTLESNAKE FERN. Botrychium virginiànum

Fronds six inches to two feet high. Sterile segment sessile above the middle of the plant,
broadly triangular, thin, membranaceous, ternate. Pinnules lanceolate, deeply pinnatifid; ultimate
segments oblong or lanceolate and scarcely or not at all spatulate. Fertile part long-stalked,
two to three pinnate, its ultimate segments narrow and thick, nearly opaque in dried specimens.
Mature sporangia varying from dark yellow-brown to almost black. Open sporangia close again
and are flattened or of a lenticular form. In rich, deciduous woods, rather common and widely
distributed.

Prince Edward Island, Minnesota, south to Florida and Texas, and north to Newfoundland and
Labrador.

Var. grácilis. A form much reduced in size.

Var. LAURENTIÀNUM. A conspicuous variety having thick and heavy sterile fronds less finely
divided than the type, with the segments crowded to overlapping. Pinnules shorter than the
type, tending to be ovate, outer segments strongly spatulate. Fertile spike relatively short
and stout, strongly paniculate when well developed. Ultimate segments flat, folaceous, one
mm. wide. Mostly confined to the limestone district near the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Labrador,
Newfoundland, Quebec, Maine, and Michigan.

Var. INTERMEDIUM. Segments of sterile fronds ultimately much spatulate, previously ovate, not
overlapping. Segments of fertile fronds ultimately narrowly flattened. (For this and the other
varieties see Rhodora of September, 1919.) Nova Scotia, Maine, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
northern New York, Illinois, and Missouri.

Var. EUROPÀEUM. Fertile frond less finely dissected than in type. Ultimate segments more obtuse
than in type; has but very slight tendency towards the spatulate form of the two previous varieties.
Pinnules lanceolate, strongly decurrent so that the pinnæ are merely pinnatifid. In coniferous
forests of Canada, and confined to calcareous regions. Quebec, New Brunswick, New Hampshire,
Vermont, New York, Ontario, Montana, and British Columbia. Said to be rare even in Europe.

V

THE FILMY FERN FAMILY

HYMENOPHYLLÀCEÆ

The filmy ferns are small, delicate plants with membranaceous, finely dissected fronds from
slender, creeping rootstocks. Sporangia sessile on a bristle-like receptacle. There are about
one hundred species, mostly tropical, only one of which grows as far north as Kentucky.

FILMY FERN. BRISTLE FERN

Trichómanes Boschiànum. Trichómanes rádicans

Rootstocks creeping, filiform, stipes ascending, one to three inches long, thin, very delicate,
pellucid, much divided, oblong-lanceolate, bipinnatifid. Rachis narrowly winged. Sporangia
clustered around the slender bristle, which is the prolongation of a vein, and surrounded by
a vase-like, slightly two-lipped involucre.

On moist, dripping sandstone cliffs, Kentucky to Alabama. Often called the "Killarney fern,"
as it grows about the lakes of Killarney in Ireland.

NOTED FERN AUTHORS

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES

[The works of these authors are listed under "Fern Literature" in the following pages.]

EATON, DANIEL CADY. Born at Gratiot, Mich., September 12, 1834. His grandfather was Amos Eaton,
noted botanist and author. Studied botany under his friend, Prof. Asa Gray, who had studied
with Prof. John Torrey, who in turn was a pupil of Amos Eaton. Daniel C. was professor of botany
in Yale College, for more than thirty years. A man of graceful and winsome personality, an
authority on ferns, and widely known by his writings. His masterpiece was "The Ferns of North
America" in two large, quarto volumes, beautifully illustrated. He died June 29, 1895.

CLUTE, WILLARD NELSON. Born at Painted Post, N.Y., February 26, 1869. Education informal; common
schools, university lectures and private study. Manifested early a keen interest in birds and
flowers. Was founder and first president of the American Fern Society. Collected in Jamaica
more than three hundred species of ferns. Has written extensively on the ferns and their allies,
besides publishing several standard volumes. His great distinction is in founding and editing
the Fern Bulletin through its twenty volumes, when he combined this publication with The American
Botanist, which is now on its twenty-eighth volume, the whole a prodigious achievement of great
scientific value.

UNDERWOOD, LUCIUS MARCUS. Born at New Woodstock, N.Y., October 26, 1853. Spent early life on
a farm. Was graduated from Syracuse University in 1877. After teaching several years in his
alma mater and elsewhere, he became Professor of Botany in Columbia University. He contributed
numerous articles to the Torrey Bulletin, Fern Bulletin, and other scientific journals. His
scholarly book, "Our Native Ferns and Their Allies," continued unexcelled through six editions.
He died November 16, 1907.

DAVENPORT, GEO. EDWARD. Born in Boston, August 3, 1833. A promoter and officer of the Middlesex
Institute. An accurate and diligent student of the ferns, his numerous articles were published
in the Fern Bulletin, in the Torrey Bulletin, Rhodora, and in separate monographs. He was a
leading authority on the pteridophyta, and collected a large and choice herbarium of the native
ferns, which he donated to the Massachusetts Horticultural Society. By his gentle manners and
kindly spirit he won many friends, all of whom were proud to recognize his distinguished ability.
He cultivated many of our rare native ferns in his Fellsway home, at Medford, Mass., and freely
gave specimens to his friends. He died suddenly of heart failure, November 29, 1907.

WATERS, CAMPBELL EASTER. Born in Baltimore County, Md., September 14, 1872. Was graduated at
Johns Hopkins University in 1895. Ph.D. in 1899. Was for a time a close student of ferns, and
issued his notable book, "Ferns," in 1903, containing his "Analytical Key Based on the Stipes."
A chemist by profession, he has pursued that branch of science for the last eighteen years.
His address is Bureau of Standards, Washington, D.C.

MAXON, WILLIAM RALPH. Born at Oneida, N.Y., February 27, 1877. Was graduated at Syracuse University
in 1898. Began as aid in cryptogamic botany, United States National Herbarium, 1899, and is
now associate curator of the same. Has specialized in scientific work on the pteridophyta,
distinguishing himself by the excellence as well as by the large number of his publications,
the more important being "Studies of Tropical American Ferns," Nos. 1 to 6. The Fern Bulletin,
Torrey Bulletin, American Fern Journal, Fernwort Papers, et al., have profited from his expert
and up-to-date knowledge. He is president of the American Fern Society.

PARSONS, FRANCES THEODORA. Born in New York, December 5, 1861. Née Smith. Married Commander
William Starr Dana of the United States Navy, who was lost at sea. As Mrs. Dana, she published,
"How to Know the Wild Flowers," in 1893, and within ten years more than seventy thousand copies
of the book had been sold. "According to Season" appeared in 1894. In February, 1896, she married
Prof. James Russell Parsons, treasurer of the University of the State of New York. In 1899
she published, "How to Know the Ferns." She combined a thorough knowledge of her subject with
an easy and graceful style.

DODGE, RAYNAL. Born at Newburyport, Mass., September 9, 1844. Civil War veteran. Wounded at
Port Hudson, June 28, 1863. A machinist by trade. A careful observer and student of nature,
he discovered Aspidium simulatum at Follymill, Seabrook, N.H., in 1880. (Whittier's "My Playmate,"
verse 9.) He discovered also the hybrid Aspidium cristatum × Marginale. He published his little
book, "Ferns and Fern Allies of New England," in 1896. Died October 20, 1918.

EATON, ALVAH AUGUSTUS. Born at Seabrook, N.H., November 20, 1865. Studied at the Putnam School
in Newburyport, but was largely self-educated. He took up teaching for several years, spending
three years in California. Returning East, he became a florist and began to write for various
fern journals, giving special attention to the fern allies. He prepared the genera Equisetum
and Isoetes for the seventh edition of "Gray's Manual." He proved the keenness of his observing
powers by discovering several ferns new to the United States. Died at his home in North Easton,
Mass., September 29, 1908.

WILLIAMSON, JOHN. Born in Abernathy, Scotland, about the year 1838. He came to Louisville,
Ky., to live in 1866. A wood-carver by trade, he could work skillfully in wood or metal, and
after a time established a brass foundry. His friend, George E. Davenport, writes of him: "He
caught as by some divine gift or inspiration the innermost life and feelings of the wild flowers
and ferns, and his marvelously accurate needle transfixed them with revivifying power on paper
or metal." His "Ferns of Kentucky," issued in 1878, was the first handbook on ferns published
in the United States. He died June 17, 1884, in the mountains of West Virginia, whither he
had gone for his health.

FERN LITERATURE

AMERICAN FERN JOURNAL. 1910. The American Fern Society. (Annual subscription, $1.25.)

BELAIRS, NONA. Hardy Ferns. Smith, Elder and Co. London, 1865.

BRITISH FERN GAZETTE.

BRITTEN, JAMES. European Ferns. Colored Plates. Cassell & Co. London. Quarto.

BUTTERS, F.K. Athyrium. Study of the American Lady Ferns. Rhodora, September, 1917.

CAMPBELL, D.H. Structure and Development of the Mosses and Ferns. Macmillan & Co. 1905. Ed. 2.

CLUTE, WILLARD N. Our Ferns in Their Haunts. Frederick A. Stokes Co. New York, 1901.

Fern Collector's Guide. Frederick A. Stokes Co. New York, 1902.

The Fern Allies. Frederick A. Stokes Co. New York, 1905.

The Fern Bulletin. Founder and Editor. 20 vols. 1893-1912.

Combined with The American Botanist. Joliet, Ill. 1912.

CONARD, HENRY S. Structure and History of Hayscented Fern. Washington, 1908.

COOK, M.C. Fern-book for Everybody. E. Warne & Co. London.

