Williams was smiling idiotically; then he shook his head and put his finger to his mouth to
warn me to keep silence. I only noted the shake of the head. Sera-phina had not come. The Havana
people must have taken her. It was all over with me. The roaring noise made me think that I
was on a beach by the sea, with the smugglers, perhaps, at night down in Kent. The silence
that fell upon the court was like the silence of a grave. Then someone began to speak in measured,
portentous Spanish, that seemed a memory of the past.

"I, the ambassador of his Catholic Majesty, being here upon my honour and on my oath, demand
the re-surrender of this gentleman, whose courage equals his innocence. Documents which have
just reached my hands establish clearly the mistake of which he is the victim. The functionary
who is called Alcayde of the carcel at Havana confused the men. Nikola el Escoces escaped,
having murdered the judge whose place it was to identify. I demand that the prisoner be set
at liberty..."

A long time after a harsh voice said:

"Your Excellency, we retire, of course, from the prosecution."

A different one directed:

"Gentlemen of the jury, you will return a verdict of 'Not Guilty'..."

Down below they were cheering uproariously because my life was saved. But it was I that had
to face my saved life. I sat there, my head bowed into my hands. The old judge was speaking
to me in a tone of lofty compassion:

"You have suffered much, as it seems, but suffering is the lot of us men. Rejoice now that
your character is cleared; that here in this public place you have received the verdict of
your countrymen that restores you to the liberties of our country and the affection of your
kindred. I rejoice with you who am a very old man, at the end of my life...."

It was rather tremendous, his deep voice, his weighted words. Suffering is the lot of us men!...
The formidable legal array, the great powers of a nation, had stood up to teach me that, and
they had taught me that--suffering is the lot of us men!

It takes long enough to realize that someone is dead at a distance. I had done that. But how
long, how long it needs to know that the life of your heart has come back from the dead. For
years afterwards I could not bear to have her out of my sight.

Of our first meeting in London all I remember is a speechlessness that was like the awed hesitation
of our overtried souls before the greatness of a change from the verge of despair to the opening
of a supreme joy.

The whole world, the whole of life, with her return, had changed all around me; it enveloped
me, it enfolded me so lightly as not to be felt, so suddenly as not to be believed in, so completely
that that whole meeting was an embrace, so softly that at last it lapsed into a sense of rest
that was like the fall of a beneficent and welcome death.

For suffering is the lot of man, but not inevitable failure or worthless despair which is without
end--suffering, the mark of manhood, which bears within its pain a hope of felicity like a
jewel set in iron....

Her first words were:

"You broke our compact. You went away from me whilst I was sleeping." Only the deepness of
her reproach revealed the depth of her love, and the suffering she too had endured to reach
a union that was to be without end--and to forgive.

