"Very well, then," snapped MAPLE-BLUNDELL, "don't talk to me about your troubles. As far as
I know this is the only carpet in the world valued at £1000; it is certainly the only one that
ever went off by spontaneous combustion; and I had this particular carpet in charge, at the
very moment when it was ready to combust spontaneously."

"Yes," said JOKIM, softly, as MAPLE-BLUNDELL went off, viciously stamping on the carpet that
covers the Library floor, "we all have our troubles, and when I think of MAPLE-BLUNDELL and
his combustible carpet I am able the better to bear the woes I have."

   Business done.--In Committee on Local
Taxation Bill.

Thursday.--"True, TOBY," OLD MORALITY said, in reply to an observation, "I am a little tired,
and naturally; things haven't been going so well as they did; but I could get along well enough
if it wasn't for SUMMERS. CONEYBEARE'S cantankerous; STORY is strenuous; TANNER tedious; and
DILLON denunciatory. But there's something about SUMMERS that is peculiarly aggravating. In
the first place, he is, as far as appearances go, such a quiet, amiable, inoffensive young
man. Looking at him, one would think that butter wouldn't melt in his mouth, much less that
Mixed Marriages in Malta should keep him awake at night, and the question of International
Arbitration should lower his appetite. Yet you know how it is. He seems to have some leisure
on his hands; uses it to formulate conundrums; comes down here, and propounds them to me. Just
look at his list for to-night. LINTORN SIMMONDS'S Mission to the POPE; Customs' Duty in Algeria;
International Arbitration; Walfish Bay, and Damara Land, together with the view the Cape Colonies
may take of the Anglo-German Agreement. That pretty well for one night; but he's gone off now,
to look up a fresh batch, which he'll unfold to-morrow. Now is the winter of our discontent,
which is chilly enough; but, for my part, I often think that life would be endurable only for
its SUMMERS."

Haven't often heard OLD MORALITY speak so bitterly; generally, even at worst time, overflowing
with geniality; ready to take kindest view of circumstances, and hope for the best. But SUMMERS,
surveying mankind from China to Peru in search of material for fresh conundrum, too much for
mildest-mannered man. OLD MORALITY, goaded to verge of madness, jumps up; hotly declines to
reply to SUMMERS; begs him to address his questions to Ministers to whose Department they belonged.

Business done.--Local Taxation Bill through Committee.

Friday.--Still in our ashes live our wonted fires. Dwelling just now amid ashes of expiring
Session; everything dull and deadly; pounding away at Local Taxation Bill; Scotch Members to
the fore, for the fortieth time urging that the £40,000 allotted them in relief of school fees
shall be made £90,000. House divides, and also for fortieth time says "No;" expect to go on
with next Amendment; when suddenly HARCOURT springs on OLD MORALITY'S back, digs his knuckles
into his eyes, bites his ear, and observes that he "has never seen a piece of more unexampled
insolence." OLD MORALITY, when he recovers breath, goes and tells the Master--I mean the SPEAKER.
SPEAKER says HARCOURT shouldn't use language like that; so HARCOURT subsides, and incident
closes as rapidly and suddenly as it opened.

A little later COMPTON goes for RAIKES; hints that he sub-edited for Hansard portions of a
speech delivered in House on Post Office affairs. RAIKES says "Noble Lord charged me with having
deliberately falsified my speech." COMPTON says he didn't. "Then," said RAIKES, with pleading
voice that went to every heart, "I wish the Noble Lord had the manliness to charge me with
deliberate falsification." COMPTON refused to oblige; RAIKES really depressed.

"Don't know what we're coming to, TOBY," he said, "when one almost goes on his knees to ask
a man to charge him with deliberate falsification, and he won't do it. Thought better of COMPTON;
see him in his true light now." Business done.--A good deal.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SPORTING STYLE.

Our next example of a true sporting style will be constructed on the basis of Nos. 11, 12,
and 13 of the Rules. These, it will be remembered, require the writer to refer to "the good
old days;" to be haughty and contemptuous, with a parade of rugged honesty; to be vain and
offensive, and to set himself up as an infallible judge of every branch of sport and athletics.
This particular variety of style is always immensely effective. All the pot—boys of the Metropolis,
most of the shady bookmakers, and a considerable proportion of the patrons of sport swear by
it, and even the most thoughtful who read it cannot fail to be impressed by its splendour.
This style deals in paragraphs. Second Example.--Event to be commented on: A Regatta.

I am led to believe by column upon column of wishy-washy twaddle in the morning papers, that
Henley Regatta has actually taken place. The effete parasites of a decayed aristocracy who
direct this gathering endeavour year after year to make the world believe that theirs is the
only meeting at which honour has the least chance of bursting into flower. I have my own opinions
on this point. Really, these tenth transmitters of foolish faces become more and more brazen
in their attempts to palm off their miserable two-penny-halfpenny, tin-pot, one-horse Regatta
as the combination of all the cardinal virtues.

       *       *       *       *       *short

These gentry presume to dictate to rowing men what shall constitute the status of the Amateur.
For my own part (and the world will acknowledge that I have done some rowing in my time) I
prefer the straight-forward conduct of any passing rag-and-bone merchant to the tricks of the
high and mighty champions of the amateur qualification in whose nostrils the mere name of professional
oarsman seems to stink. These pampered denizens of the amateur hothouse would, doubtless, wear
a kid-glove before they ventured to shake hands with one who, like myself, despises them and
their absurd pretensions.

       *       *       *       *       *short

As for the rowing, it was fantastic. I wasn't there. Indeed, those who know me, would never
think so meanly of me as to suppose that I would attend this Regatta pour rire. But I know
enough to be sure that the Eights were slow, the Fours deficient in pace, the pairs on the
minus side of nothing, and the scullers preposterous. Rowing must be in a bad way when it can
boast no better champions (save the mark!) than those who last week aired their incompetence,
and impeded the traffic of the people upon the Thames. Time was when an oarsman was an oarsman,
but now he is a miserable cross between a Belgravian flunkey and a riverside tout. Which is
all I care to say on an unsavoury matter.