NEW SOUTH WALES (1,132), the "mother colony" of Australia, fronts the Pacific for 700 m. on
the E. between Queensland (N.) and Victoria (S.), is 2½ times the size of Great Britain and
Ireland; mountain ranges (including the Australian Alps) running parallel with, and from 20
to 100 m. distant from, the coast, divide the narrow littoral plains from the great plains
of the W. and the interior, and are the source of many large rivers (e. g. the Darling) flowing
E. and W.; the climate is warm and everywhere healthy; rain falls plentifully on the coast
lands and mountains, but is scarce in the W. The mineral wealth of the colony is very great--gold
and silver are found in large quantities, as also copper, tin, iron, &c., but coal is the most
abundant and valuable mineral product. Cereals, fruits, sugar, tobacco, &c., are cultivated,
but in small quantities compared with the immense output of wool, the chief product of the
country. SYDNEY (q. v.) is the capital and chief port of the colony. Government is vested in
a Crown appointed Governor and two Houses of Parliament (triennial and paid). Education is
free and compulsory. Established in 1788, the colony was, up to 1840, used as a settlement
for transported criminals. In 1851 the great gold discoveries started the colony on its prosperous
career.

NEW YORK (5,997), the foremost State in the American Union in population, wealth, commerce,
and manufactures, the twenty-fifth in area, and is about the size of England; is triangular
in shape, with a north-western base on Lakes Erie and Ontario, and an eastern apex reaching
the Atlantic between Connecticut (N.) and New Jersey (S.). Manhattan, Staten, and Long Island
are the most important of many islands belonging to the State. The land slopes from the mountainous
E. to the shores of the great western lakes, and is pleasantly diversified with mountain, valley
and plain, forest and river. The Hudson, Oswego, Genesee, and Niagara (with its famous waterfall)
are the principal rivers, while the St. Lawrence forms part of the northern boundary. One-half
of the area is under cultivation; the vine flourishes, hops and tobacco are grown, and market-gardening
prospers near the large cities; but manufacturing is the chief industry, and the transit of
goods is greatly facilitated by the many waterways and network of railways. Was finally occupied
by the English in 1664, after the expulsion of the Dutch.

NEW YORK CITY (3,437), but including Brooklyn, Jersey City, and other suburban places, nearly
three millions, the premier city of the American continent, and third wealthiest in the world;
occupies Manhattan Island (13½ m. long) and several smaller islands at the terminal confluence
of the Hudson with East River, which opens into Long Island Sound; 18 m. S. of the city is
Sandy Hook, where two ship channels cross the bar, and lead into the outer or lower bay, which
in turn is joined by a strait to the magnificent harbour or inner bay; all approaches are strongly
fortified; a suspension bridge spans East River, uniting the city with Brooklyn; the rivers
and the many wharves are crowded with shipping. The old town is a busy hive of industry, with
its great centres of banking and mercantile enterprise--Wall, New, and Broad Streets. The modern
part of the city is a model of regularity, is traversed by great avenues 8 m. in length and
100 ft. wide, the finest being Fifth Avenue. The City Hall and the Court House are of white
marble; the hotels are the largest in the world; Astor library (250,000 vols.), academy of
design, university, museums, art-galleries, and many other handsome buildings adorn the streets;
carries on industries of almost every description.

NEW ZEALAND (669, of which 42 are Maories), a British island colony in the South Pacific, lying
wholly within the temperate zone, 1200 m. E. of Australia; comprises North Island (45,000 sq.
m.), South or Middle Island (58,000 sq. m.), Stewart Island (much smaller), and a number of
islets; total area considerably more than that of Great Britain. The two main islands, separated
by Cook Strait, are in no part broader than 150 m., and are traversed from end to end by a
great and partly volcanic mountain chain, the range in South Island being known as the Southern
Alps (highest peak Mount Cook, 12,350 ft), and that in North Island as the Ruahine Range and
the Tararua Mountains; everywhere rivers abound, Waikato (North Island) and Clutha (South Island)
being the largest; numerous lakes (Lake Taupo, six times the size of Loch Lomond), fertile
valleys, and well-grassed plains, together with the mountains, make up a beautiful and diversified
surface, which much resembles that of Scotland, while the climate, temperate and healthy, is
warmer and more equable than in Great Britain; almost all the animals have been imported, as
well as the grains and fruits; great forests of indigenous kauri pines, however, exist; sheep-farming,
agriculture, and mining (gold and coal) are the chief industries, wool being the chief export;
Auckland, the largest, and Wellington, the capital, in North Island, and Dunedin and Christchurch
in South Island, are the chief towns; Government is vested in a Crown-appointed Governor, an
Executive Ministry, and a Parliament of two Chambers; education is free, secular, and compulsory,
but no State aid is given to any form of religion; discovered in 1642 by Tasman, the islands
were first surveyed by Cook in 1769; their formal cession to the British crown took place in 1840.

NEWARK (246), city of U.S., New Jersey, 7 miles W. by New Jersey City. It has extensive tanneries,
and manufactories of hats, thread, and celluloid.

NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME (18), a borough and old market-town of Staffordshire, 40 m. S. of Manchester;
is a well-built town, actively engaged in brewing, malting, and paper-making.

NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE (186), a city and county of itself, and chief town of Northumberland; situated
on the N. bank, and 10 m. from the mouth, of the Tyne, 275 m. N. of London. The old town extends
some two miles along the river bank, and with its crowded quays, narrow winding streets, and
dingy warehouses, presents a striking contrast to the handsome modern portion, which stretches
back on gently rising ground. The cathedral is an imposing and interesting architectural structure,
while the public buildings are more than usually ornate. The Colleges of Medicine and of Science
are affiliated to Durham University. There are several fine libraries, theatres, hospitals,
and charitable institutions, and the city is especially well off in the matter of public parks
and pleasure grounds. Three bridges (including Robert Stephenson's famous High Level Bridge)
span the river and connect Newcastle with Gateshead. It is the chief centre of the English
coal trade, and is a busy hive of all kinds of metallic, chemical, machinery, and kindred works,
which give rise to an immense and ever-increasing shipping trade. As a centre of shipbuilding
the Tyne is second only to the Clyde.

NEWCOMEN, THOMAS, blacksmith, born at Dartmouth; invented a steam-engine in which the piston
was raised by steam and driven down by the atmosphere after the injection into the cylinder
of a squirt of cold water, which cooled it, so that the steam when injected did not raise the
piston at once up. By James Watt's invention of a separate condenser it was superseded, and
employed afterwards principally for pumping water. The interruption in the movement between
the descent and ascent of the piston made it worthless for such purposes as Watt's invention
is applied to; d. 1729.

NEWDIGATE, SIR ROGER, born in Warwickshire; represented Oxford in Parliament, and founded the
Newdigate Prize for the best English poem by an undergraduate; the winners of it have since
distinguished themselves, chiefly in letters (1719-1806).

NEWFOUNDLAND (198), the oldest island colony of Britain, situated at the mouth of the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, North America; is about one-eighth larger than Ireland, and triangular in
shape, the northern apex running close in to the coast of Labrador; inland the country is bleak,
sparsely populated, and ill cultivated; lakes and rivers abound; the deeply indented coast
provides excellent harbourage for the large fishing fleets that frequent it; minerals are found,
including coal, iron, lead, and copper; agriculture and timber-felling are on the increase,
but the fisheries--cod, salmon, herring, and seal--form the staple industry; the climate is
more temperate than in Canada, although, subject to fogs; ST. JOHNS (q. v.) is the capital;
discovered in 1497 by John Cabot, seized by the English in 1583, and finally ceded to Britain
by the French (who retained certain fishing rights) in 1713; Newfoundland possesses a responsible
government, consisting of a popularly elected Assembly and a Crown-appointed Governor, and
exercises political rights over the adjoining coast territory of Labrador.

NEWGATE, a dark, gloomy prison in London, the original of which dates as far back as 1218;
was two centuries afterwards rebuilt, and destroyed in the great fire of 1666; rebuilt in 1780;
is now used only for prisoners awaiting trial during Sessions, and as a place of execution.

NEWMAN, JOHN HENRY, cardinal, born in London, son of a banker; educated at Ealing, studied
at Trinity College, Oxford, and obtained a Fellowship in Oriel College in 1823; trained in
evangelical beliefs, he gradually drifted into High-Church notions, and becoming vicar of St.
Mary's, the university church of Oxford, in 1826, started the Tractarian Movement in 1833,
and, busy with his pen, wrote no fewer than 24 of the celebrated "Tracts for the Times" in
advocacy of High-Church teaching, till Tract XC., which he composed, overshot the mark, and
he resigned his connection with the Church of England, and was received into the Catholic Church
on the 28th October 1845; shortly after this he visited Rome, was ordained a priest, and after
some stay there on his return became head of the Birmingham Oratory in 1849, where he spent
over 40 of the years that remained of his life; the influence on Church matters which he exercised
as university preacher at Oxford was very great, and made itself felt through the voluminous
writings over the length and breadth of the Church; on his secession he continued to employ
his pen in defence of his position, particularly in one work, now widely known, entitled "Apologia
pro Vita Sua"; what he wrote was for the time he lived in, and none of it, except certain of
his hymns, is likely to endure; the religion he fought for and vindicated was an externally
authenticated one, whereas all true religion derives itself and its evidences solely and wholly
from within, and is powerless and virtually nothing except in so far as it roots itself there
(1801-1890).

NEWMAN, FRANCIS WILLIAM, born in London, brother of the preceding, with whom he was wholly
out of sympathy, and at the opposite pole; he was a theist in his religious opinions, and wrote
in defence of them his principal works, "The Soul: Her Sorrows and Aspirations," and "Phases
of Faith" (1805-1897).

NEWPORT, 1, capital of the Isle of Wight (10), and near its centre; in its vicinity is Carisbrooke
Castle, where Charles I. was imprisoned. 2, The largest town in Monmouth (54), at the mouth
of the Usk, engaged in manufacture of various kinds, but chiefly as a port for the export of
minerals, which is very large. 3, A town in Rhode Island, U.S., (19), a fashionable watering-place,
as well as a manufacturing; was for a time the residence of Bishop Berkeley.

NEWSTEAD ABBEY, an abbey near Nottingham, founded by Henry II. by way of atonement for the
murder of Thomas à Becket, which was given at the dissolution of the monasteries to an ancestor
of Lord Byron, who lived in it and sold it, since which it has been restored.

NEWTON, SIR ISAAC, illustrious natural philosopher, born in Woolsthorpe, near Grantham, in
Lincolnshire; entered Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1661, where he applied himself specially
to the study of mathematics, invented the method of FLUXIONS (q. v.), and began to theorise
on gravitation, graduating in 1667, and becoming professor of Mathematics in 1669; failing
at first, from a mistaken measurement given of the earth's diameter, in his attempts to establish
the theory referred to, he set himself to the construction of telescopes, and discovered the
composition of light; shortly after this, hearing of a correction of the measurement required,
he renewed his study of gravitation, and made his theory good in a series of papers communicated
to the Royal Society, though it was not till 1687, encouraged by Halley, he gave the complete
demonstration in his "Principia" to the world; in 1695 he was made Warden of the Mint, and
afterwards Master, a post he held till his death; his works were numerous, and he wrote on
prophecy as well as treatises on science (1642-1727).

NEWTON, JOHN, English clergyman, born in London; after a wild youth was converted, entered
the Church, and became curate of Olney, where he became acquainted with Cowper, and had, owing
to his severe Calvinism, an influence over him not altogether for good, and was associated
with the production of the "Olney Hymns"; wrote "Cardiphonia" (1725-1807).

NEWTON, THOMAS, English divine; edited Milton's "Paradise Lost" and "Paradise Regained," and
notes, and wrote "Dissertations on the Prophecies" (1704-1782).

NEY, MICHEL, peer and marshal of France, born at Sarrelouis, son of a cooper; entered the army
as a private hussar in 1797; distinguished himself by his bravery in the wars of the Revolution
and the Empire, and earned for himself from the army under Napoleon, and from Napoleon himself,
the title of the "Brave of the braves"; on Napoleon's abdication in 1814 he attached himself
to Louis XVIII., but on his return from Elba he joined Ins old master, and stood by him during
the hundred days; on the second Restoration he was arrested, tried by his peers, and shot (1769-1815).

NGAMI, LAKE, a shallow sheet of water 50 m. long in S. Africa, on the borders of the Kalahari
Desert, which is always changing its margin, is at one time, from the rains, sweet and drinkable,
and at another time, from drought, saline; it is infested with crocodiles, and swarms with fish.

NIAGARA, a section of the St. Lawrence River, in N. America, extending between Lakes Erie and
Ontario, having a descent throughout its course of 36 m. of 326 ft., the Falls, preceded and
succeeded by rapids, being the largest in the world, the Canadian or Horse Shoe Fall being
2640 ft. wide, with a descent of 158 ft., and the American Fall being one-third of the width
of the Canadian, and with a descent of over 162 ft.

NIAM-NIAM, a people of the E. Soudan, SE. of Darfur, occupying territory between the basins
of the Nile and the Congo.

NIBELUNG, king of the Nibelungen, a mythical Burgundian tribe, the fabulous possessor of a
hoard of wealth so inexhaustible that "twelve waggons in twelve days, at the rate of three
journeys a day, could not carry it off," and which he bequeathed to his two sons on his deathbed,
by the vanquishing of whom the hoard fell into the hands of the redoubtable hero Siegfried.

NIBELUNGEN LIED (i. e. Lay of the Nibelungen), an old German epic, of date, it is presumed,
earlier than the 12th century; it consists of two parts, the first ending with the murder of
Siegfried by Hagen, his wresting of the hoard (see SUPRA) from his widow, Kriemhild, and burying
it at the bottom of the Rhine, and the second relating the vengeance of Kriemhild and the annihilation
of the whole Burgundian race, Kriemhild included, to whom the treasure had originally belonged;
to the latter part the name of the Nibelungen Not (or Distress) has been given.

NICARAGUA (313, mostly mulattoes and negroes), the largest and richest of five republics occupying
Central America, stretches across the isthmus from the Pacific to the Caribbean Sea, between
Honduras (N.) and Costa Rica (S.); the Cordilleras traverse the heart of the country, and the
immense valleys of the W. are remarkable for the two great southern lakes, Nicaragua and Managua,
which are studded with volcanic islands; rich in gold, silver, copper, and coal, with vast
forests of mahogany, rosewood, &c., splendid pastures and a fertile soil; the country has through
misgovernment and a bad climate remained in a backward state; in recent times more has been
done; hides, bananas, coffee, and india-rubber are the chief exports, and a considerable deal
of mining goes on; the great ship-canal from the Pacific to the Caribbean, begun in 1889 by
a U.S. company, is not yet completed; Managua (18) is the capital; asserted its independence
from Spain in 1821, and has since been rent by countless revolutions; a president and a congress
of 48 administer its affairs.

NICE or NICÆA, an ancient city of Bithynia, in Asia Minor, celebrated as the seat of two oecumenical
councils of the Church, the first, presided over by Constantine in 325, which condemned Arianism,
and the second, under the Empress Irene in 787, which deliberated on image-worship.

NICE (74), capital of the department Alpes-Maritimes, France, charmingly situated on the Mediterranean
coast near the Italian border, terraced hills shelter it on the N., and its genial and equable
climate make it a favourite winter resort for invalids; the Paglione, a small stream, divides
the old and modern portion; Castle Hill, with ruins and pleasure gardens, the cathedral, art-gallery,
&c., are features of interest; olive-oil is the chief export, and artistic pottery, perfumery,
&c., are manufactured.

NICENE CREED, a creed established as orthodox at NICE (q. v.), which affirmed as against Arianism
that Christ as Son of God was not merely of like substance, but of the same substance with
the Father.

NICHOLAS, the name of five popes: N. I., ST., surnamed the Great, Pope from 858 to 867, asserted
the supremacy of the papal see, Festival, Nov. 13; N. II., pope from 1058 to 1061; N. III.,
Pope from 1277 to 1280; N. IV., pope from 1288 to 1292; N. V., Pope from 1447 to 1456, after
the capture of Constantinople by the Turks, took the exiled Greek scholars under his protection,
fostered the learning of the East, and laid the foundation of the Vatican Library by the collection
of over 5000 Greek and Latin MSS.

NICHOLAS, ST., the patron saint of boys, of sailors, of Russia and Aberdeen, as well as other
towns; was bishop of Myra, persecuted under Diocletian; is generally represented in bishop's
robes, and has either three purses or three children as his attributes; the three children
and the three purses refer to one and the same story: St. Nicholas, on learning that a father
who had three daughters was tempted by extreme poverty to expose them to a life of dishonour,
went by night and threw into the window of the house three bags of money which served as a
marriage portion for each, and thus rescued them from a life of shame.

NICHOLAS I., czar of Russia, born at St. Petersburg, third son of Paul I., ascended the throne
in 1825 in succession to Alexander I., his eldest brother; suppressed with rigour and not a
little severity a formidable conspiracy which took form on his accession; took up arms against
Persia and wrested Erivan from its sway, struggled against both the Poles and the Turks till
his overbearing policy against the latter provoked a coalition of France, England, and Sardinia
to their defence in the Crimean War, which was still going on when he died; in 1848 he aided
Austria in the suppression of the Hungarian insurrection (1796-1855).

NICHOLAS II., czar of Russia, born in St. Petersburg, son of Alexander III., and his successor
in Nov. 1894; was married on the month of his accession to Princess Alice of Hesse-Darmstadt
and granddaughter of Queen Victoria through the Princess Alice, while his mother is a sister
of the Princess of Wales; his education under his father was conducted expressly with a view
to what might be required of him on his accession to the throne; his ministers are in sympathy
with himself, and he has already (1899) distinguished himself by putting his finger on the
sore which is festering at the heart and is sucking up as a vampire the life's blood of Europe;
b. May 18, 1868.

NICHOLSON, JOHN, an Indian officer, born in Dublin, son of a physician; served in the Sikh
Wars, and at the outbreak of the Mutiny in 1857 in the Punjab crushed it in the bud; led the
attack at the siege of Delhi, Sept. 14, but fell mortally wounded as the storming party were
entering the Cabul Gate (1821-1857).

NICOBAR ISLANDS (7), a group of picturesque islands in the Indian Ocean, S. of the Andaman
Islands and midway between Ceylon and the Malay Peninsula; 14 of the 20 islands are inhabited,
chiefly by indigenous Indians and Malays; after being in the hands of Denmark for upwards of
100 years, they were annexed by Britain in 1869; trade is carried on with India in cocoa-nuts,
ambergris, tortoise-shell, &c.

NICOLAITANS, a sect of heretics that arose in the Apostolic Church, presumed to have been a
party of professing Christians of Gentile descent, who, after their profession, continued to
take part in the heathen festivals, and to have contributed to break down the distinction between
the Church and the world, so essential to the very existence of the faith they professed, founded,
as it is, no less absolutely on No to the world than on Yea to God. See EVERLASTING NO and
EVERLASTING YEA.

NICOLE, PIERRE, French divine and moralist, born at Chartres, a PORT-ROYALIST (q. v.), friend
of Arnauld and Pascal; was along with the former author of the famous "Port Royal Logic" (1625-1695).

NICOTINE, a poisonous alkaloid extracted from the leaves of the tobacco plant, is a colourless,
oily liquid, readily soluble in water, and has a pungent odour.

NIEBUHR, BARTHOLD GEORG, distinguished historian, born at Copenhagen, son of the succeeding;
studied at Kiel, and for a time at London and Edinburgh; after various civil appointments in
Denmark, entered the civil service of Prussia in 1806; on the establishment of the university
of Berlin in 1810 gave in connection with it a course of lectures on Roman history, by which
he established his reputation as a historian, several of the conclusions of which he afterwards
confirmed during his residence as ambassador at the Papal Court at Rome from 1816 to 1823;
the revolution of the three days of July 1830 in Paris threatening, as he thought, a recurrence
of the horrors of the first, gave him such a shock that he sickened of it and died; by his
treatment of the history of Rome he introduced a new era in the treatment of history generally,
which consisted in expiscating all the fabulous from the story and working on the residuum
of authenticated fact, without, however, as would appear, taking due account of the influence
of the faith of the people on the fable, and the effect of the latter on the life and destiny
of the nation whose history it was his purpose to relate (1776-1830).

NIEBUHR, KARSTEN, a celebrated traveller, born in Hanover; joined a Danish expedition in exploration
of Arabia, and alone of the members of it returned home, which he did by way of Persia, Palestine,
and Cyprus, and wrote an account of the results of his researches (1733-1815).

NIEL, ADOLPHE, French marshal, born at Muret; entered the Engineers 1825, served in the Algerine
War in 1835, before Rome in 1849, at Bomarsund in 1854, at Sebastopol in 1856, as well as at
Magenta and Solferino, and finally became Minister of War (1802-1869).

NIEPEE, JOSEPH NICÉPHORE, French chemist, born at Châlons-sur-Saône; inventor of photography,
the method of effecting which he achieved after long brooding in 1824, and afterwards communicated
to Daguerre, with whom he entered into partnership, and who made it known after his death (1765-1833).

NIFLHEIM or MISTHOME, in the Norse mythology the primeval northern region of cold and darkness,
in contrast with Muspelheim, or Brighthome, the primeval southern region of warmth and light,
the two poles, as it were, of the Norse world.

NIGER, a great river of Western Africa, whose head-waters rise amid the Kong Mountains behind
Sierra Leone; flowing NE. as far as Timbuctoo (2 m. from the river), it there bends gradually
southward, receives from the E. its great affluent the Benuë, and about 100 m. from the coast
begins to form a wide forest and jungle-covered delta (larger than that of the Nile), and finally
flows into the Gulf of Guinea by 22 mouths after a course of some 2600 m. Forms, with the Benuë,
an invaluable highway into the heart of the country; its upper and middle parts, under the
names Joliba, &c., are within the French sphere, and the lower portion below Say is under English
authority.

NIGHTINGALE, FLORENCE, a famous philanthropic nurse, born at Florence, of wealthy English parentage;
at the age of 22 entered the institution of Protestant Deaconesses at Kaiserswerth to be trained
as a nurse, and afterwards studied the methods of nursing and hospital management with the
Sisters of St. Vincent de Paul, Paris; after thoroughly reorganising Harley Street Hospital,
London, she in 1854 volunteered to organise a staff of nurses to tend the wounded soldiers
in the Crimea; arriving at Scutari on the eve of Inkermann she, during the terrible winter
of 1854-55, ministered with unwearied devotion to the suffering soldiers; on her return in
1856 she, with public support, established a training college for nurses at St. Thomas's and
at King's College Hospital; she is author of "Notes on Nursing," "Notes on Hospitals," &c.;
b. in 1820.

NIHILISM, the principles of a movement on the part of the educated classes in Russia which
repudiates the existing creed and organisation of society, and insists on a root and branch
wholesale abolition of them and a reconstruction of them on communistic principles, and for
the purely secular and everyday ends of common life, subordinating everything in the first
place to the feeding, clothing, and lodging of human beings in a manner worthy of their rank
in the scale of being. The term Nihilism is also applied to those philosophical systems which
sweep the course clear of all incredibilities and irrationalities, but leave us bare of all
our inherited spiritual possessions.

NIJNI-NOVGOROD (73), capital of a Russian government of the same name, situated at the confluence
of the Oka with the Volga, 274 m. E. of Moscow, is the seat of Peter-Paul's Fair, the greatest
in the world, which lasts from July to September, attracting merchants from Asia and Europe,
and during which the population of the town swells to six or seven times its normal dimensions;
as much as £20,000,000 worth of goods are said to be sold during the fair.

NILE, the longest river of Africa, and one of the most noted in the world's history; the Shimiyu,
Isanga, and other streams which flow into Victoria Nyanza from the S. are regarded as its ultimate
head-waters; from Victoria Nyanza, the Victoria Nile or Somerset River holds a north-westerly
course to Albert Nyanza, whence it issues under the name of the Bahr-el-Jebel, swelled by the
waters of the Semliki from Albert Edward Nyanza; about 650 m. N. it is joined by the Bahr-el-Ghazal
from the W., and bending to the E., now under the name White Nile, receives on that side the
Sobat, and as a sluggish navigable stream flows past Fashoda on to Khartoum, where it is met
by the Bahr-al-Azrak or Blue Nile; 200 m. lower it receives the Atbara or Black Nile. Through
Egypt the river's course is confined to a valley some 10 m. broad, which owes its great fertility
to the alluvial deposits left by the river during it annual overflow (July to October, caused
by seasonal rains in Abyssinia, &c.). From Khartoum to Assouan occur the cataracts; below this
the stream is navigable. A few miles N. of Cairo begins the delta which lies within the Rosetta
and Damietta--two main branches of the divided river--and is some 150 m. broad at its base.
From Victoria Nyanza to the coast the river measures about 3400 m.

NILSSON, CHRISTINE, an operatic singer, born in Sweden, daughter of a peasant, and one of the
foremost sopranos of her day; distinguished for her dramatic talent no less than by her powers
as a vocalist (1843-1882).

NIMEGUEN (34), an interesting old Dutch town in Guelderland, on the Waal, 73 m. E. of Rotterdam;
has a fine 13th-century Gothic church and other notable buildings; its prosperous manufactures
include tobacco, perfume, beer, &c.; here, in 1678-79, France effected famous peace treaties
with Holland, Spain, and Austria.

NÎMES or NISMES (68), capital of the department of Gard, S. of France, lies surrounded by the
Cévennes in the fertile valley of the Vistre, 31 m. E. of Montpellier; has unique Roman remains,
including an imposing amphitheatre, now used as a bull-arena, the noble Corinthian "Maison
Carrée," a mausoleum, baths, &c.; textiles (silk, cotton, &c.), wines, and brandy are the chief
articles of manufacture; it declared for the Reformation in 1559, and suffered cruelly on the
Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.

NIMROD, an early king of Assyria or Babylonia, characterised in Scripture (Gen. x. 9) as "a
mighty hunter before the Lord"; a name now applied to a distinguished hunter.

NINEVEH, an exceeding great city, capital of ancient Assyria, which stood on the left bank
of the Tigris, opposite the modern town of Mosul, said to have been included within a wall
60 m. long, 100 ft. high, the breadth of three chariots in width, and defended by 1500 towers
each 200 ft. in height.

NINIAN ST., early apostle of Christianity to the southern Picts of Scotland, born on the shores
of the Solway, of noble descent; went to Rome, was consecrated by the Pope, visited St. Martin
at Tours on his way back; had founded a church at Whithorn, Wigtownshire, which he dedicated
to the latter on his return, where he died, "perfect in life and full of years," in 432.

NINUS, a legendary king of Assyria, a celebrated conqueror, to whom tradition assigns the founding
of Nineveh.

NIOBE, in the Greek mythology the daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes,
to whom she bore six sons and six daughters, in her pride of whom she rated herself above Leto,
who had given birth to only two children, Apollo and Artemis, whereupon they, indignant at
this insult to their mother, gave themselves for nine days to the slaughter of Niobe's offspring,
and on the tenth the gods buried them; Niobe, in her grief, retired to Mount Sipylos, in Lydia,
where her body became cold and rigid as stone, but not her tears, which, ever as the summer
months returned, burst forth anew.

NIRVÂNA, the name given to the consummation of bliss in the Hindu, but especially the Buddhist,
religions, synonymous with extinction, which in the Hindu creed means the extinction of individuality
by absorption in the Divine Being, and in Buddhism, not, as some presume, the extinction of
existence, but the extinction of agitation of mind through the crucifixion of all passion and
desire, the attainment of self-centred, self-sufficient quiescence of being, or rest and peace
of soul.

NISUS, a Trojan youth who accompanied Æneas into Italy, and whose friendship for Euryulus is
so pathetically immortalised by Virgil in the ninth book of the "Æneid."

NITHSDALE, WILLIAM MAXWELL, EARL OF, a noted Catholic, who took part in the Jacobite rising
of 1715, was captured at Preston, found guilty of treason, and sentenced to death; the night
before the day appointed for his execution (24th February 1786) he effected an escape from
the Tower by exchanging clothes with his daring and devoted countess, who had been admitted
to his room; he fled to Rome, where he lived in happiness with his wife until her death (1676-1744).

NITROGEN, a gaseous element which constitutes one-fourth in volume of the atmosphere, is the
basis of nitric acid, and is an essential constituent of proteids, alkaloids, and albuminoids.

NITZSCH, KARL LUDWIG, German theologian, born at Borna; became professor at Bonn, Saxony, in
1822, whence in 1847 he was removed to succeed Marheineke at Berlin; was of the Schleiermacher
school of theologians, and author, among other works, of a "System der Christlichen Lehre"
and "Practische Theologie," the former an able work, but most vilely translated into English,
and the latter in evidence of the importance the author attached to the ethical element in
the Christian religion (1787-1860).

NIXIE, in German folk-lore a water-sprite of a mischievous disposition, believed to have been
suggested to the imagination by the reflection of the stars in the water.

NIZAM, the name given to a viceroy or administrator of justice in the Mogul Empire of India.

NIZAM'S DOMINIONS, THE, or HYDERABAD (11,537), in the heart of the Deccan, situated between
the Central Provinces and the Presidency of Madras; it is highly fertile, and the largest of
the native States in India. See HYDERABAD.

NOAH, the patriarch of Scripture antiquity who, by the command of God, constructed an ark for
the preservation of the human race and the dry-land animals during the prevalence of the deluge
that would otherwise have swept all these forms of life away.

NOAILLES, the name of an old French family, several members of which distinguished themselves
in the service of both Church and State: ANNE JULES N., marshal of France, celebrated for his
cruelties against the Huguenots (1650-1708); LOUIS ANTOINE DE, his brother, archbishop of Paris,
who was made cardinal (1651-1729); LOUIS MARIE, VICOMTE DE, deputy to the States-General, who
took part for a time in the Revolution (1756-1804).

NOAKES, JOHN O', a fictitious name for a litigious person, used by lawyers in actions of ejectment.

NOBLE, a gold coin first minted by Edward III., formerly current in the country; worth 6s.
8d., and ultimately 10s., when the value of the gold increased.

NOCTURNE, picture of a night scene; also a musical piece appropriate to the night.

NODES, name given to the two points in the orbit of a planet where it crosses or intersects
the ecliptic, called ascending when it goes N., and descending when it goes S.

NODIER, CHARLES, able French littérateur, born at Besançon; a man of great literary activity
and some considerable literary influence; author of charming stories and fairy tales; "did
everything well," says Professor Saintsbury, "but perhaps nothing supremely well" (1780-1844).

NOLLEKENS, JOSEPH, sculptor, born in London, son of an Antwerp painter; studied in Rome; his
forte lay in busts, of which he modelled a great many, including busts of Garrick, Sterne,
Dr. Johnson, Pitt, and Fox, and realised thereby a large fortune; he was a man of no education;
his principal work is "Venus with the Sandal" (1737-1813).

NOMINALISM, the name given to the theory of those among the Scholastics who maintained that
general notions, which we denote by general terms, are only names, empty conceptions without
reality, that there was no such thing as pure thought, only conception and sensuous perception,
whereas realists, after Plato, held by the objective reality of universals. And, indeed, it
is not as modern philosophy affirms, in the particular or the individual, in which alone, according
to the Nominalists, reality resides, but in the universal, in regard to which the particular
is nothing if it does not refer.

NONCONFORMISTS, a name originally applied to the clergy of the Established Church of England,
some two thousand, who in 1662 resigned their livings rather than submit to the terms of the
Act of Uniformity passed on the 24th of August that year, and now applied to the whole Dissenting
body in England.

NONES, in the Roman calendar the ninth day before the IDES (q. v.), being the 7th of March,
May, July, and October, and the 5th of the rest.

NONJURORS, a name given to that section of the Episcopal party in England who, having sworn
fealty to James II., refused to take the oath of allegiance to William III., six of whom among
the bishops for their obstinacy were deprived of their sees.

NO-POPERY RIOTS, name given principally to riots in London in June 1780, due to the zeal of
LORD GEORGE GORDON (q. v.), ending in the death of near 300 persons.

NORDENSKIÖLD, ERIK, a Swedish naturalist, born in Helsingfors; after several successive voyages
and explorations in the Arctic Sea, in which he paid frequent visits to Spitzbergen, where
he measured an arc of the meridian, in 1878-79 discovered the North-East Passage by traversing,
along the N. shores of Europe and Asia, the whole Arctic Sea from the Atlantic to the Pacific;
has written accounts of his expeditions; b. 1832.

NORDKYN (i. e. north chin), the most northerly point in Norway, and of the continent of Europe
generally.

NORE, MUTINY AT THE, a mutiny in the fleet stationed at the Nore, an anchorage off Sheerness,
in the Thames, which broke out on May 20, 1797, and was not suppressed till June 15, for which
the ringleaders were tried and hanged.

NORFOLK (455), an eastern maritime county of England, lies N. of Suffolk, and presents a long
eastern and northern foreshore (90 m.) to the German Ocean; the Wash lies on the NW. border;
light fertile soils, and an undulating, well-watered surface favour an extensive and highly
developed agriculture, of which fruit-growing and market-gardening are special features; rabbits
and game abound in the great woods and sand-dunes; the chief rivers are the Ouse, Bure, and
Yare, and these and other streams form in their courses a remarkable series of inland lakes
known as the BROADS (q. v.); its antiquities of Roman and Saxon times are many and peculiarly
interesting.

NORFOLK ISLAND, a small precipitous island in the Western Pacific, midway between New Caledonia
and New Zealand, 400 m. NW. of the latter; its inhabitants, many of whom came from Pitcairn
Island, and now less than 1000, govern themselves under the superintendence of New South Wales.

NORMAN, HENRY, journalist and traveller, born at Leicester; travelled extensively in the East;
has written on "The Peoples and Politics of the Far East," and "Round the Near East"; has since
1892 been on the staff of the Daily Chronicle.

NORMAN ARCHITECTURE, a massive architecture introduced into England, particularly in the construction
of churches, abbeys, &c., by the Normans even before the Conquest, which was in vogue in the
country till the end of Henry II.'s reign, and which is characterised by the prevalence of
the rounded arch.

NORMANDY, an ancient province of France, fronting the English Channel, NE. of Brittany; received
its name from the Northmen who, under Rollo, established themselves there in the 10th century;
was for a long time an appanage of the English crown after the Norman Conquest; after being
taken and retaken, was finally lost to England in 1450; it became practically a part of France
when it was taken by Philip Augustus in 1204; it is now represented by the five departments
Seine-Inférieure, Eure, Orne, Calvados, and Manche.

NORNAS, in the Norse mythology the three Fates--the Past, the Present, and the Future; maidens
or dames who water the roots of IGGDRASIL (q. v.), the ash-tree of existence, and determine
the destinies of both gods and men.

NORRKÖPING (36) (north market), a town in Sweden, called the "Scandinavian Manchester," 113
m. SW. of Stockholm, with cotton and woollen factories worked by the water-power of the river
Motala, that in falls and rapids rushes through the town.

NORROY KING OF ARMS, a name given to the third king-of-arms, whose province is on the N. side
of the Trent, the one on the S. side being called Clarencieux.

NORTH, CHRISTOPHER, a pseudonym of Prof. John Wilson in the "Noctes Ambrosianæ" in Blackwood's
Magazine.

NORTH, FREDERICK, LORD, English statesman; entered Parliament in 1754, became Tory leader in
the House of Commons in 1767, and Prime Minister in 1770; was entirely subservient to the will
of the king, George III., and was responsible in that relation for the loss of the American
colonies; a coalition was effected in 1783 between him and Fox, to the disgrace of the latter,
but it terminated in a few months; he died, Earl of Guildford, blind (1732-1792).

NORTH BERWICK. See BERWICK, NORTH.

NORTH CAPE, the most northerly point in Europe, in the island of Magerö, in 71° N. latitude.

NORTH CAROLINA. See CAROLINA, NORTH.

NORTH SEA or GERMAN OCEAN, between the E. coast of Britain and the Continent, spreads out into
the Arctic Ocean, is shallow, is crossed by many sandbanks, and is subject to frequent violent
storms; the Dogger Bank, between England and Denmark, 8 to 16 fathoms deep, is rich in fish,
especially cod.

NORTH-EAST and NORTH-WEST PASSAGES, the name given to the sea-routes through the Arctic Ocean,
the former by the N. of Europe and Asia and the latter by the N. of North America, which the
northern nations were ambitious to open up into the Pacific, the access to which by the Capes
in the S. was in possession of the fleets of Spain and Portugal; the attempts to achieve it
cost much money and much life, and realised no permanent material advantage.

NORTH-WEST PASSAGE. See NORTH-EAST.

NORTH-WEST PROVINCES (46,905), a province and lieutenant-governorship of British India, embraces
the upper portion of the Ganges Valley and Doab, and reaches from Bengal to the Punjab, enclosing
Oudh on all sides but the N.; area twice that of England, is the chief wheat province, and
also raises opium, cotton, tea, and sugar; was separated from Bengal in 1835, and with it in
1877 was conjoined Oudh; Allahabad is the capital.

NORTHALLERTON (4), a market-town and capital of the North Riding of Yorkshire, 30 m. NW. of
York; in the vicinity was fought the famous Battle of the Standard, in which David I. of Scotland
was routed by the English, August 22, 1138.

NORTHAMPTON (70), capital of Northamptonshire, on the Nen, 66 m. NW. of London; has two fine
old Norman churches, is the centre of the boot and shoe manufacture, and is actively engaged
in brewing, lace-making, &c.; in the outskirts is a popular racecourse; was the scene of Henry
VI.'s defeat by the Yorkists on July 10, 1460.

NORTHAMPTONSHIRE or NORTHANTS (302), a midland county of England, bordering upon nine others;
has an undulating fertile surface, and is distinguished from the surrounding counties by extensive
woods and plantations; is chiefly engaged in agriculture and stock-raising; the Nen and the
Welland are the principal rivers; among its antiquities are Fotheringay Castle, where Mary
Stuart was beheaded, and Burleigh House; the battles of Edgecote (1469) and Naseby (1645) were
fought within its borders.

NORTHCOTE, JAMES, English portrait-painter; studied under Sir Joshua Reynolds, whose Life he
wrote as well as Titian's; wrote also "Fables" and "Conversations."

NORTHCOTE, SIR STAFFORD HENRY. See IDDESLEIGH, LORD.

NORTHMEN or NORSEMEN, the name given in the Middle Ages to the sea-roving, adventure-loving
inhabitants of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark; in their sea-rovings they were little better than
pirates, but they had this excuse, their home was narrow and their lands barren, and it was
a necessity for them to sally forth and see what they could plunder and carry away in richer
lands; they were men of great daring, their early religion definable as the consecration of
valour, and they were the terror of the quieter nations whose lands they invaded; at first
their invasions were mere raids for plunder, but at length they were satisfied with no less
than conquest and the permanent occupancy of the lands they subdued, settling some of them
on the shores of England and France, and even in the S. of Italy; these invasions were common
and frequent during the whole of the 9th and the early part of the 10th centuries.

NORTHUMBERLAND (506), the most northerly county of England, lies on the border of Scotland,
from which it is separated by the Cheviots and the Tweed; its eastern shore, off which lie
the Farne Islands, Lindisfarne, and Coquet Isle, N. of Durham, fronts the North Sea; is fifth
in size of the English counties; in the N. the Cheviot slopes form excellent pasturage, but
the Pennine Range towards the W. presents dreary and less valuable moorland; on the W. are
arable lowlands; Tweed, Tyne, Till, Alne, Wansbeck, are the chief rivers. Its great coal-field
in the S.E. is the most celebrated in the world, and is the county's greatest source of wealth,
and includes upwards of 100 collieries; Newcastle, Alnwick (county town), Hexham, and North
Shields are the principal towns. Within its borders were fought the battles of Otterburn, Homildon
Hill, and Flodden.

NORTHUMBRIA, one of the ancient English kingdoms; comprised the eastern half of the island
from the Humber to the Firth of Forth, and was divided into the Northern Bernicia and the southern
Deira; was founded in 547 by Ida the Angle.

NORTHWICH (14), a town in Cheshire, with springs in and around of brine, from which salt has
been procured for centuries.

NORTON, CHARLES EDWARD, American littérateur, born in Cambridge, Massachusetts; has travelled
a good deal in Europe; edited, with Lowell, the North American Review and the early Letters
of Carlyle, as well as the "Reminiscences," which had been too carelessly edited by Froude;
b. 1827.

NORTON, MRS., English novelist and poet, née Sheridan, granddaughter of Sheridan, authoress
of "Stuart of Dunleath," "Lost and Saved," &c., described by Lockhart as "the Byron of poetesses,"
figures in Meredith's "Diana of the Crossways" (1808-1877).

NORWAY (2,000), a kingdom of North Europe, comprising the western side of the Scandinavian
peninsula, and separated from Sweden on the E. by the Kjölen Mountains; the Arctic and Atlantic
Oceans beat upon its long and serrated western seaboard, forcing a way up the many narrow and
sinuous fiords; Sogne Fiord, the longest, runs into the heart of the country 100 m.; off the
northern coast lie the Loffodens, while the Skerries skirt the E. The country forms a strip
of irregular and mountainous coast-land 1160 m. long, which narrows down at its least breadth
to 25 m.; 70 per cent, of the surface is uncultivable, and 24 per cent, is forest; the lakes
number 30,000, of which Lake Wenner (2136 sq. m.) is the largest; immense glaciers are found
in the great mountain barrier, and innumerable rivers run short and rapid courses to the Atlantic
and to the Skager-Rak in the S.; the Glommen, flowing into Christiania Fiord, is the largest
(400 m.). The climate of the W. coast districts is tempered by the Gulf Stream; inland there
is a great decrease in the rainfall, but much intenser cold is experienced. The wealth of the
country lies in its forests and fisheries, mines and shipping; only 2 per cent, of the land-surface
is under cultivation, and 2.8 per cent is utilised for grazing; the copper, iron, and silver
mines are declining. Christiania (the capital) is the centre of the industrial area; the shipping
almost equals that of the United States, and ranks third in the world. The Norwegians are intensely
democratic (titles and nobility were abolished in 1821), and although under a king, who also
includes Sweden in his dominions, they enjoy democratic home rule, no members of the Storthing
(Parliament) being paid. Education is free and compulsory, and the bulk of the people are Lutherans.
The monetary unit is the Krone (= 1/1½). Norway, originally inhabited by Lapps and Gothic tribes,
was first unified by Harold Haarfager (A.D. 863-930), and subsequently welded into a Christian
kingdom by his descendant St. Olaf (1015). From 1536 it was held as a conquered province by
Denmark up to 1814; in that year it was ceded to Sweden, and received national rights and a
free constitution.

NORWICH, 1, an ancient cathedral city and capital of Norfolk (101), situated on the Wensum,
immediately above its junction with the Yare, 114 m. NE. of London; its beautiful woodland
surroundings have won it the name of "the city in an orchard"; chief of its many fine buildings
is the cathedral, a handsome Norman structure, founded in 1096; of the old Norman castle only
the keep now stands, crowning a central hill; its celebrated triennial musical festivals began
in 1824; textile fabrics are still an important manufacture, but have been superseded in importance
by mustard, starch, and iron-ware factories; has been a bishopric since 1094. 2, Capital of
New London County (16), Connecticut, on the Thames River, 36 m. SE. of Hartford.

NORWOOD (24), a healthy southern suburban district of London, at one time the locality of a
gypsy encampment.

NOSTRADAMUS, a celebrated astrologer, the assumed name of Michel de Notredame, born at St.
Remi, Provence; was a medical man by profession, but gave himself to divination, uttered in
rhymes in a series of published predictions called "Centuries" (1503-1566).

NOTABLES, THE, name given to certain actual or virtual rulers of the different districts of
France, consisting of men of different ranks, summoned together in a time of civic perplexity
and trouble to advise the king, and especially the convocation of them summoned at the instance
of Controller Colonne, and that assembled at the Château of Versailles on 22nd February 1787
to the number of a "round gross," including seven princes of the blood, and who were "organed
out" nine weeks after, their debates proving ineffectual, to be recalled on the 6th November
the year following, to "vanish ineffectual again on 12th December, and return no more."

NOTARY PUBLIC, a professional person appointed to certify to a formality required by law as
observed in his presence.

NOTRE DAME, celebrated metropolitan church of Paris, situated on the "Ile de la Cité"; it was
begun to be erected in 1163 on the site of a prior Merovingian cathedral, which itself had
superseded a pagan temple on the spot, and completed, at least the general ensemble of it, in 1230.

NOTTINGHAM (214), capital of Nottinghamshire, on the Trent, 126 m. NW. of London; is a spacious
and well-built town, with an arboretum, castle (now an art gallery), two theatres, university
college, free library, old grammar-school, racecourse, &c.; is the centre of lace-making and
hosiery in England, and manufactures cottons, silks, bicycles, cigars, needles, beer, &c.;
a fine granite and iron bridge spans the river.

NOTTINGHAMSHIRE (446), a north-midland county of England, lies wedged in between Lincoln (E.)
and Derby (N.), and touches York on the N.; embraces the broad, level, and fruitful valley
of the Trent, Sherwood Forest, and Wolds in the S.; excepting the Vale of Belvoir in the E.,
part of the Wolds and the Valley of the Trent, the land is not specially productive; coal and
iron ore are found. The principal towns, Nottingham, Newark, Mansfield, &c., are busily engaged
in the manufacture of all kinds of lace, hosiery, and various woollen goods; iron-founding
and cotton mills are also numerous.

NOUMENA, the philosophical name for realities as distinct from phenomena, which are regarded
as but the appearances of reality.

NOVA SCOTIA (450), a province of Canada, lies E. of New Brunswick, facing the Atlantic, which,
with its extensions, Bay of Fundy and Gulf of St. Lawrence, all but surrounds it; consists
of a peninsula (joined to New Brunswick by Chignecto Isthmus) and the island of Cape Breton,
separated by the Gut of Canso; area equals two-thirds of Scotland, short rivers and lakes abound;
all kinds of cereals (except wheat and root-crops) are grown in abundance, and much attention
is given to the valuable crops of apples, pears, plums, and other fruits; gold, coal, iron,
&c., are wrought extensively, manufactures are increasing; the fisheries (mackerel, cod, herring,
salmon, &c.), and timber forests are the chief sources of wealth; the province is well opened
up by railways, education is free, government is in the hands of a lieutenant-governor, an
executive council (9), and a legislative assembly (38); HALIFAX (q. v.) is the capital; climate
varies in temperature from 20° below zero to 98° in the shade, fogs prevail in the coast-land;
was discovered in 1497 by Cabot, formed a portion of French ACADIE, and finally became British
in 1713.

NOVA ZEMBLA, a long and narrow island (sometimes classified as two islands) in the Arctic Ocean,
between the Kara Sea and Barentz Sea, 600 m. by 60 m.; the Matochkin Shar, a narrow winding
strait, cuts the island into two halves; belongs to Russia, but is not permanently inhabited;
is visited by seamen and hunters.

NOVALIS, the nom de plume of Friedrich von Hardenberg, a German author, born at Wiederstädt,
near Mansfeld, one of the most prominent representatives of the Romantic school of poets, author
of two unfinished romances entitled "Heinrich von Ofterdingen" and "Lehrlinge zu Sais," together
with "Geistliche Lieder" and "Hymnen an die Nacht"; was an ardent student of JACOB BOEHME (q.
v.), and wrote in a mystical vein, and was at heart a mystic of deep true feeling; pronounced
by Carlyle "an anti-mechanist--a deep man, the most perfect of modern spirit seers"; regarded,
he says, "religion as a social thing, and as impossible without a church" (1772-1801). See
Carlyle's "Miscellanies."

NOVATIAN, a priest of the Church in Rome, a convert from paganism, who in the third century
took a severe view of the conduct of those who had lapsed under persecution, particularly the
Decian, and insisted that the Church, having no power to absolve them, could not, even on penitence,
readmit them, in which protest he was joined by a considerable party named after him Novatians,
and who continued to trouble the Church for centuries after his death, assuming the name of
Cathari or purists.

NOVEMBER, the eleventh month of the year, so called by the Romans, in whose calendar it was
the ninth.

NOVGOROD (21), a noted Russian city, and capital of a government of the same name, is situated
on the Volkhof, 110 m. SE. of St. Petersburg; is divided into two parts by the bridged river,
contains the cathedral of St. Sophia (11th century); with its foundation in 864 by Rurik, a
Scandinavian prince, Russian history begins; was by the 12th century a free State, but in 1471
was put down by the Muscovite Czar Ivan III.; the government of Novgorod (1,290) lies E. of
St. Petersburg, embraces the Valdai plateau and hills, is chiefly forest land, and includes
some 3000 lakes.

NOX, the Latin for "night," and the name of the "goddess of night." See NYX.

NOYADES, drownages superintended during the Reign of Terror at Nantes by the attorney Carrier,
and effected by cramming some 90 priests in a flat-bottomed craft under hatches, and drowning
them in mid-stream after scuttling the boat at a signal given, followed by another in which
some 138 persons suffered like "sentence of deportation"; of these drownages there are said
to have been no fewer first and last than 25.

NUBIA, a large and ill-defined region of North-East Africa, lies between Egypt (N.) and Abyssinia
(S.), and stretches from the Red Sea (E.) to the desert (W.); is divided into Lower and Upper
Nubia, Dongola being the dividing point; Nubia has in recent times rather fallen under the
wider designation of Egyptian Soudan; except by the banks of the Nile the country is bare and
arid desert; climate is hot and dry, but quite healthy.

NUMA POMPILIUS, the second king of Rome and the successor of Romulus, its founder, born at
Cures, in the Sabine country, and devoted himself to the establishment of religion and laws
among his subjects and the training of them in the arts of peace, in which, according to the
legend, he was assisted by a nymph EGERIA (q. v.), who lived close by in a grotto, and to whom
he had ever and anon recourse for consultation; he was long revered in the Roman memory as
the organiser of the State and its civil and sacred institutions, and his reign was long and
peaceful.

NUMANTIA, an ancient Spanish town on a steep height on the Douro, celebrated for the heroic
defence maintained by its inhabitants against the Romans, till from the thinning of its defenders
by starvation and the sword it was taken and destroyed by Scipio Africanus in 134 B.C.

NUMBERS, BOOK OF, the fourth book of the Pentateuch, and so called from the two numberings
of the people, one at the beginning and the other at the close of the period it embraces; it
embraces a period of 38 years, and continues the narrative from the departure of the camp of
Israel out of the wilderness of Sinai to its arrival on the borders of Canaan, and relates
an account of the preparations for the march, of the march itself, and of the preparations
for the conquest.

NUMIDIA (i. e. land of Nomads), ancient country in North Africa, nearly co-extensive with Algiers,
the inhabitants of which were of the Berber race, were brave but treacherous, and excelled
in horsemanship; sided at first with the Carthaginians in the PUNIC WARS (q. v.), and finally
with Rome, till the country itself was reduced by Cæsar to a Roman province.

NUMISMATICS, the name given to the study and science of coins and medals.

NUMITOR, a legendary king of Alba Longa, in Italy, and the grandfather of Romulus and Remus.

NUNEATON (12), a thriving market-town of Warwickshire, on the river Anker and the Coventry
Canal, 22 m. E. of Birmingham; has a Gothic church; cotton, woollen, and worsted spinning is
the chief industry; was the scene of George Eliot's education.

NUR ED-DIN, MAHMOUD, sultan of Syria, born at Damascus; the extension of his empire over Syria
led to the Second Crusade, preached by St. Bernard; compelled the Crusaders to raise the siege
of Damascus, which he made his capital; called to interfere in the affairs of Egypt, he conquered
it, and made it his own, a sovereignty which SALADIN (q. v.) disputed, and which Nur ed-Din
was preparing to reassert when he died (1117-1178).

NÜREMBERG (143), an interesting old Bavarian town on the Pegnitz, 95 m. N. of Münich, is full
of quaint and picturesque mediæval architecture in fine preservation; has valuable art collections,
a fine library, and a museum; is noted for the production of watches, toys, wood, metal, bone
carvings, beer, and chemicals, and exports large quantities of hops; was made a free imperial
city in 1219, and retained independence up to 1806.

NUTATION, name given to a slight oscillatory movement noticeable in the celestial pole of the
earth, due to the latter not being a perfect sphere.

NYANZA, ALBERT. See ALBERT NYANZA.

NYANZA, VICTORIA, a large lake of Central Africa, in the Nile basin, at the sources of the
river, and S. of the preceding, equal in extent to the area of Scotland, at an elevation of
3890 ft.; discovered by Captain Speke in 1858, and sailed round by Stanley in 1875.

NYASSA, LAKE, lake in East Africa, feeds the Zambesi; is 350 m. long by 40 broad, at an elevation
of 1570 ft., and was discovered by Livingstone in 1859; the waters are sweet, and abound with
fish; the regions bordering it on the S. and W. are called Nyassaland.

NYASSALAND, a region in Central Africa under British protection, lying round the shores of
Lake Nyassa, the chief town of which is Blantyre; it is known also as the British Central Africa
Protectorate, the administration being in the hands of a commissioner acting under the Foreign
Office; the Europeans number some 300, and the natives 850,000, while the forces defending
it consist of 200 Sikhs and 300 negroes; there are plantations of sugar, coffee, tobacco, &c.,
and almost the entire trade is with Britain.

NYÂYA, the name of one of the six principal systems of Hindu philosophy, and devoted to the
dialectics or metaphysics of philosophy.

NYMPHS, in the Greek mythology maiden divinities of inferior rank, inhabiting mountains, groves,
seas, fountains, rivers, valleys, grottoes, &c., under the several names of OCEANIDES (q. v.),
NEREIDS (q. v.), NAIADS (q. v.), OREADS (q. v.), DRYADS (q. v.), &c.; they are distinguished
by their grace and fascinating charms.

NYNEE TAL, a place of resort in the summer season and a sanatorium in the North-West Provinces
of India, 22 m. S. of Almora, 6521 ft. above sea-level.

NYX (i. e. Night), in the Greek mythology the goddess of night, the daughter of CHAOS (q. v.),
and the sister of EREBOS (q. v.), one of the very first of created beings, the terror of gods,
and by Erebos became the mother of Æther, pure light, and Hemera, daylight, as well as other
entities of note.

O

OAKHAM (4), county town of Rutland, 17 m. E. of Leicester, in the centre of a fine wheat country;
has an old church, a grammar-school founded in 1581, and a castle mostly in ruins; manufactures
of boots and hosiery, and carries on malting.

OAKLAND (67), on the E. coast of the Bay of San Francisco, 4½ m. across from San Francisco
city, is the capital of Alameda County, California, a beautiful city with tree-lined streets,
surrounded by vineyards and orchards; it has a home of the adult blind of the State, manufactures
of textile and iron goods, and fruit-canning industries, and is the terminus of the Southern
Pacific Railroad.

OAKS, THE, one of the three great classic races in England, run at Epsom; established by the
12th Earl of Derby in 1779 for fillies of 3 years old.

OAKUM, name given to fibres of old tarry ropes sundered by teasing, and employed in caulking
the seams between planks in ships; the teasing of oakum is an occupation for prisoners in jails.

OASES, fertile spots in a desert due to the presence of springs or water near at hand underground;
met with in the deserts of North Africa, Arabia, and Gobi.

OATES, TITUS, fabricator of a Popish plot for the overthrow of the Protestant faith in England,
the allegation of which brought to the block several innocent men; rewarded at first with a
pension and safe lodgment in Westminster Hall, was afterwards convicted of perjury, flogged,
and imprisoned for Life, but at the revolution was set at liberty and granted a pension of
£300 (1650-1705).

OBADIAH, a Hebrew prophet who appears to have lived about 588 B.C., shortly after the destruction
of Jerusalem, at which the Edomites had assisted, and whose prophecy was written to assure
the exiles in Babylon that the judgment of God had gone forth against Edom, and that with the
execution of it Israel would be restored.

OBAN (5), a modern town situated in the W. of Argyllshire, on a land-locked bay opening off
the Firth of Lorne, is the capital, sometimes called the "Queen," of the Western Highlands,
and a fashionable tourist resort; it has excellent railway and steamboat communications, 30
hotels, and has near it two ruined castles, an ancient cave dwelling, and much beautiful scenery;
Dunstaffnage Castle is 4 m. to the N. of it, where the early Scottish kings used to be crowned.

OBEID (35), in the Eastern Soudan, 220 m. SW. of Khartoum, is the capital of Kordofan; was
the scene in November 1883 of the annihilation by the forces of the Mahdi, after three days'
fighting, of an Egyptian army under Hicks Pasha and other English officers; its trade consists
of ivory, gold, feathers, and gum.

OBELISK, a tall four-sided pillar, generally monolithic, tapering to a pyramidal pointed top,
erected in connection with temples in Egypt, and inscribed all over with hieroglyphs, and in
memorial, as is likely, of some historical personage or event; they are of ancient date.

OBER-AMMERGAU, a small village in Bavaria, 45 m. SW. of Münich; famed for the Passion Play
performed there by the peasants, some 500 in number, every ten years, which attracts a great
many spectators to the spot; the play was instituted in 1634 in token of gratitude for the
abatement of a plague.

OBERLIN, JEAN FRIEDRICH, a benevolent Protestant pastor, born at Strasburg; laboured all his
life at Ban de la Roche, a wild mountain district of Alsace, and devoted himself with untiring
zeal to the spiritual and material welfare of the people, which they rewarded with their pious
gratitude and warmest affection.

OBERON, the king of the fairies, and the husband of Titania.

OBI, a river and, with its tributaries, great water highway of West Siberia, which rises in
the Altai Mountains, and after a course of 2120 m. falls into the Arctic Ocean.

OBJECTIVE, a philosophical term used to denote that which is true universally apart from all
merely private sense or judgment, and finds response in the universal reason, the reason that
is common to all rational beings; it is opposed to subjective, or agreeable to one's mere feelings
or fancy.

OBLATES, the name given to an organisation of secular priests living in community, founded
by St. Charles Borromeo at the end of the 16th century, and who are ready to render any services
the bishop may require of them.

OBOE, a treble-sounding musical instrument of the reed class, to which the bassoon is reckoned
the bass.

OBELUS, a small coin worth about a penny, according to a custom among the Greeks placed in
the mouth of a corpse at burial to pay to Charon to ferry the ghost of it over the Styx.

O'BRIEN, WILLIAM, journalist, and a Nationalist ex-M.P. for Cork; was twice over imprisoned
for political offences; had to retire in 1895; b. 1852.

O'BRIEN, WILLIAM SMITH, Irish patriot; entered Parliament in 1826; sat for Limerick from 1835
to 1843, when he joined the Repeal Association under O'Connell, but separated from it; joined
the physical force Young Ireland party, and became the head; attempted an insurrection, which
failed, and involved him in prosecution for treason and banishment for life; a free pardon
was afterwards granted on promise of abstaining from all further disloyalty; he died at Bangor,
in North Wales (1803-1864).

OBSCURANTIST, name given to an opponent to modern enlightenment as professed by the devotees
of modern science and philosophy.

OBSIDIAN, a hard, dark-coloured rock of a glassy structure found in lava, which breaks with
conchoidal fracture.

OCCAM or OAKHAM, WILLIAM OF, an English Scholastic philosopher, born at Oakham, Surrey, surnamed
Doctor Invincibilis; was a monk of the order of St. Francis; studied under DUNS SCOTUS (q.
v.), and became his rival, and a reviver of NOMINALISM (q. v.) in opposition to him, by his
insistence on which he undermined the whole structure of Scholastic dogmatism, that is, its
objective validity, and plunged it in hopeless ruin, but cleared the way for modern speculation,
and its grounding of the OBJECTIVE (q. v.) on a surer basis (1280-1347).

OCCASIONALISM, the doctrine that the action of the spiritual organisation on the material,
and of the material on the spiritual, or of the inner on the outer, and the outer on the inner,
is due to the divine interposition taking occasion of the effort of mind, or of the inner,
on the one hand, and the effort of matter, or the outer, on the other, to work the effect or
result; or that the link connecting cause and effect in both cases, that is, the acion of the
outer world on the inner, and vice versa, is God.

OCEANIA, an imaginary commonwealth described by James Harrington (1611-1697) in which the project
of a doctrinaire republic is worked out; also a book of Froude's on the English colonies.

OCEANIA, the name given to the clusters of islands, consisting of Australasia in the S., Malaysia
in the E. Indian Archipelago, and Polynesia in the N. and E. of the Pacific.

OCEANIDES, the nymphs of the Ocean, all daughters of Oceanus, some 3000 in number.

OCEANUS or OKEANOS, in the Greek mythology the great world-stream which surrounds the whole
earth, and is the parent source of all seas and streams, presided over by a Titan, the husband
of Tethys, and the father of all river-gods and water-nymphs. He is the all-father of the world,
as his wife is the all-mother, and the pair occupy a palace apart on the extreme verge of the
world.

OCHILS (i. e. the heights), a range of hills lying NE. and SW. between the valleys of the Forth
and Tay; reach their highest point in Ben Cleugh (2363 ft.), near Stirling; the range is 24
m. long by 12 broad, and affords pasture for black-faced sheep; of the peaks of the range Dunmyat
is the most striking, as Ben Cleuch is the highest.

OCHILTREE, EDIE, a talkative, kind-hearted gaberlunzie who figures a good deal in Scott's "Antiquary."

OCHINO, BERNARDINO, an Italian monk, born in Sienna; after 40 years' zeal in the service of
the Church embraced the Reformed doctrine; fled from the power of the Inquisition to Geneva;
took refuge in England; ministered here and there to Italian refugees, but was hunted from
place to place; died at last of the plague in Moravia (1487-1564).

OCHTERLONY, SIR DAVID, British general, born at Boston, U.S., of Scottish descent; entered
the Indian army; distinguished himself in the war against the Goorkhas; was made a baronet,
and received a pension of £1000 for his services; a monument to his memory stands in the Maidan
Park, Calcutta (1758-1825).

OCKLEY, SIMON, Orientalist, became professor of Arabic; wrote a "History of the Saracens,"
part of it in a debtors' prison; died in indigence (1678-1720).

O'CONNELL, DANIEL, Irish patriot, known as the "Liberator," born near Cahirciveen, co. Kerry;
educated at St. Omer, Douay, and Lincoln's Inn; was called to the Irish bar in 1798, and was
for twenty-two years a famous and prosperous practitioner on the Munster circuit; turning to
politics he became leader of the Catholics in 1811, his object being the removal of the Catholic
disabilities; the Catholic Association of 1823 was organised by him, which he induced the priesthood
to join, and awakened irresistible enthusiasm throughout the country; the electors now began
to vote independently, and O'Connell was returned for Clare in 1828; the House refused to admit
him; but so strong, and at the same time so orderly, was the agitation in Ireland, that in
1829 the Catholic disabilities were removed, and O'Connell, returned again for Clare, took
his seat in the House of Commons; next year he represented Waterford in the new Parliament,
and subsequently Kerry, Dublin, Kilkenny, and Cork; he now formed a society for promoting the
repeal of the Union, which survived several suppressions, and reappeared under different names;
but in spite of his exertions in the House and in the country the cause languished, till, in
1843, as Lord Mayor of Dublin, he carried a resolution in its favour in the City Council; but
now under the pressure of less experienced agitators, his monster meetings and other proceedings
began to overstep legal limits, and in 1844 he, with six of his supporters, was indicted for
raising sedition; he was sentenced to a year's imprisonment and a fine of £2000, but the sentence
was set aside in 14 weeks; by this time the Young Ireland party had broken away from him, the
potato famine came, he was conscious of failure, and his health was broken; he died on his
way to Rome, at Genoa; a man of great physical strength and energy, and a master of oratory,
he gave himself unselfishly to serve his country, sacrificing a legal practice worth £7000
a year, honestly administering the immense sums contributed, and spending his private means
for his cause; with an undeniable taint of coarseness, violence, and scurrility in his nature,
he was yet a man of independent and liberal mind, an opponent of rebellion, loyal to his sovereign,
a great and sincere patriot (1775-1847).

OCTAVIA, the sister of Augustus, a woman distinguished for her beauty and her virtue; was married
first to Marcellus, and on his death to Mark Antony, who forsook her for Cleopatra, but to
whom she remained true, even, on his miserable end, nursing his children by Cleopatra along
with her own; one other grief she had to endure in the death of her son MARCELLUS (q. v.) by
her former husband, and the destined successor of Augustus on the throne.

OCTOBER, the tenth month of the year so called (i. e. the eighth) by the Romans, whose year
began on March.

OD, name given to a physical force recently surmised and believed to pervade all nature, and
as manifesting itself chiefly in connection with mesmeric phenomena.

ODDFELLOWS, the name of several friendly societies. The Independent Order of Oddfellows, Manchester
Unity, is the largest and most important of the number, its membership is over 665,000, and
its funds amount to £8,000,000. It has been the pioneer in many important movements of the
kind, several of the provisions now compulsory on all societies it observed of its own accord,
prior to their enactment; the actuarial tables compiled from its statistics in 1845 by its
secretary, Henry Radcliffe, are still a standard work. The Grand United Order of Oddfellows
has a membership of 241,000, and funds amounting to £882,000; the National Independent Order
of Oddfellows embraces 58,000 members, and has £242,000.

ODER, an important German river, rises in Moravia, and crossing the frontier flows NW. through
Silesia, and N. through Brandenburg and Pomerania 550 m. into the Stettiner Haff and so to
the Baltic. On its banks stand Ratibor, where navigation ends, Breslau, Frankfort, and Stettin;
it receives its chief tributary, the navigable Warthe, on the right, and has canal communication
with the Spree and the Elbe.

ODESSA (298), on the Black Sea, 25 m. NE. of the mouth of the Dniester, is the fourth largest
city of Russia, and the chief southern port and emporium of commerce. It exports large shipments
of wheat, sugar, and wool; imports cotton, groceries, iron, and coal, and manufactures flour,
tobacco, machinery, and leather. It is well fortified, and though many of the poor live in
subterraneous caverns, is a fine city, with a university, a cathedral, and a public library.
It was a free port from 1817 till 1857. The population includes many Greeks and Jews.

ODIN or WODIN, the chief god of the ancient Scandinavians, combined in one the powers of Zeus
and Ares among the Greeks, and was attended by two black ravens--Hugin, mind, and Munin, memory,
the bearers of tidings between him and the people of his subject-world. His council chamber
is in ASGARD (q. v.), and he holds court with his warriors in VALHALLA (q. v.). He is the source
of all wisdom as well as all power, and is supposed by Carlyle to have been the deification
of some one who incarnated in himself all the characteristic wisdom and valour of the Scandinavian
race; Frigga was his wife, and Balder and Thor his sons. See CARLYLE'S "HEROES."

ODO, bishop of Bayeux, brother of William the Conqueror, fought by his side at Hastings; after
blessing the troops, was made Earl of Kent, and appointed governor of kingdom during William's
absence in Normandy; had great influence in State affairs all along, and set out for the Holy
Land, but died at Palermo (1032-1096).

ODOACER, a Hun, son of one of Attila's officers, who entered the Imperial Guards, dethroned
Augustulus, and became emperor himself; Zeno, the emperor of the East, enlisted Theodoric of
the Ostrogoths against him, who made a treaty with him to be joint ruler of the kingdom of
Italy, and assassinated him in 493.

O'DONNELL, LEOPOLD, Spanish soldier and politician, born, of Irish descent, at Santa Cruz,
in Teneriffe; entered the army, and attached himself to the cause of Queen Isabella, on whose
emergence from her minority in 1843 he was made Governor of Cuba; there he enriched himself
by trading in slaves, and returning to Spain threw himself into politics; he joined Espartero's
cabinet in 1854, and two years later supplanted him as chief minister; he commanded in the
Moorish war of 1858, and was created Duke of Tetuan after the capture of that city; he was
again Prime Minister till 1866, and died in exile at Bayonne (1809-1867).

ODYSSEY, an epic poem by Homer relating the ten years' wanderings of Ulysses (Odysseus) after
the fall of Troy, and his return at the end of them to his native kingdom of Ithaca. See ULYSSES.

OECOLAMPADIUS, JOANNES, one of the leaders of the Reformation, born at Weinsberg, in Würtemberg;
became preacher at Basel, assisted Erasmus in his edition of the New Testament, entered a convent
at Augsburg, came under Luther's influence and adopted the reformed doctrine, of which he became
a preacher and professor, embraced in particular the views of Zwingli (1482-1531).

OEDIPUS, a mythological king of Thebes, son of Laius and Jocasta, and fated to kill his father
and marry his mother; unwittingly slew his father in a quarrel; for answering the riddle of
the SPHINX (q. v.) was made king in his stead, and wedded his widow, by whom he became the
father of four children; on discovery of the incest Jocasta hanged herself, and Oedipus went
mad and put out his eyes.

OEHLENSCHLÄGER, ADAM GOTTLOB, great Danish poet, born at Copenhagen; his poems first brought
him into notice and secured him a travelling pension, which he made use of to form acquaintanceship
with such men as Goethe and his literary confrères in Germany, during which time he commenced
that series of tragedies on northern subjects on which his fame chiefly rests, which include
"Hakon Jarl," "Correggio," "Palnatoke," &c.; his fame, which is greatest in the North, has
spread, for he ranks among the Danes as Goethe among the Germans, and his death was felt by
the whole nation (1779-1850).

OEHLER, GUSTAV, learned German theologian, professor at Tübingen, eminent for his studies and
writings on the Old Testament (1812-1872).

OEIL-DE-BOEUF, a large reception-room in the palace of Versailles, lighted by a window so called
(ox-eye it means), and is the name given in French history to the French Court, particularly
during the Revolution period.

OELAND (37), an island off the SE. coast of Sweden, 55 m. long and about 10 m. broad; has good
pasture ground, and yields alum; the fisheries good.

OENONË, a nymph of Mount Ida, near Troy, beloved by and married to Paris, but whom he forsook
for Helen; is the subject of one of Tennyson's poems.

OERSTED, HANS CHRISTIAN, a Danish physicist; was professor of Physics in Copenhagen, the discoverer
of electro-magnetism, of the compressibility of water, and the metal aluminium; did much to
popularise science in a volume entitled "The Soul in Nature" (1777-1851).

OESEL (51), a marshy, well-wooded island at the mouth of the Gulf of Riga, in the Baltic, 45
m. long and 25 m. of average breadth; has some low hills and precipitous coasts; Arensburg
(4), on the SE. shore, is the only town; Danish from 1559, the island passed to Sweden in 1645
and to Russia in 1721; the wealthier classes are of German descent.

OFFA'S DYKE, an entrenchment and rampart between England and Wales, 100 m. long, extending
from Flintshire as far as the mouth of the Wye; said to have been thrown up by Offa, king of
Mercia, about the year 780, to confine the marauding Welsh within their own territory.

OFFENBACH, JACQUES, a musical composer, born at Cologne, of Jewish parents, creator of the
opera bouffe; was the author of "La Belle Hélène," "Orphée aux Enfers," "La Grande Duchesse,"
"Madame Favart," &c. (1810-1880)

OFFERTORY, in the Roman Catholic Church a portion of the liturgy chanted at the commencement
of the eucharistic service, also in the English the part of the service read during the collection
of the alms at communion.

OFTERDINGEN, HEINRICH VON, a famous MINNESINGER (q. v.) of the 15th century.

OGHAM or OGAM, an alphabet of 20 letters in use among the ancient Irish and Celts, found carved
on monumental stones in Ireland, Wales, Cornwall, and the North of Scotland.

OGLETHORPE, JAMES EDWARD, English general, born in London; served in the Marlborough wars,
sat in Parliament for several years, conceived the founding of a colony for debtors in prison,
and founded Georgia; returning to England, fought against the Pretender, and died in Essex
(1696-1785).

OGOWE`, a West African river, 500 m. long, rises in the Akukuja plateau, and following a semicircular
course northward and westward enters the Atlantic by a delta at Cape Lopez, its course lying
wholly within French Congo territory; in the dry season its volume is much diminished, and
its many sandbanks prevent its navigation except by small boats.

O'GROAT'S HOUSE, JOHN. See JOHN O' GROAT'S HOUSE.

OGYGES, a Boeotian autochthon, the legendary first king of Thebes, which is called at times
Ogygia, in whose reign a flood, called the Ogygian after him, inundated the land, though some
accounts make it occur in Attica.

OGYGIA, a mythological island of Homeric legend, situated far off in the sea, and the home
of the sorceress CALYPSO (q. v.).

OHIO (3,672), a State of the American Union, a third larger than Scotland, stretches northward
from the Ohio River to Lake Erie, between Pennsylvania and Indiana. It consists of level and
undulating plains, on which are raised enormous crops of wheat and maize. Sheep-grazing and
cattle-rearing are very extensive; its wool-clip is the largest in America. There are valuable
deposits of limestone and freestone, and in output of coal Ohio ranks third of the States.
The manufactures are very important; it ranks first in farm implements, and produces also wagons,
textile fabrics, and liquors. In the N. excellent fruit is grown. The capital is Columbus (88),
the largest city is Cincinnati (297). Admitted to the Union in 1803, it boasts among its sons
four Presidents--Grant, Hayes, Garfield, and Benjamin Harrison.

OHIO RIVER, formed by the confluence of the Alleghany and the Monongahela, pursues a westward
course of 1000 m., separating Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois from West Virginia and Kentucky,
and after receiving sundry tributaries joins the Mississippi, being the largest and, next to
the Missouri, the longest of its affluents; it is navigable for the whole of its course; on
its banks stand Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Louisville, and Madison.

OHM, GEORG SIMON, a German physicist, born at Erlangen; discovered the mathematical theory
of the electric current, known as Ohm's Law, a law based on experiment, that the strength of
the electric current is equal to the electro-motive force divided by the resistance of the
wire (1787-1854).

OHNET, GEORGES, French novelist, born in Paris; author of a series of novels in a social interest,
entitled "Les Batailles de la Vie;" b. 1848.

OIL CITY (11), on the Alleghany River, Pennsylvania, by rail 130 m. N. of Pittsburg, is the
centre of a great oil-trade and oil-refining industry; there are also engineer and boiler works;
it suffered severely from floods in 1892.

OKA, a river of Central Russia, which rises in Orel and flows N., then E., then N. again, joining
the Volga at Nijni-Novgorod after a course of over 700 m., navigable nearly all the way; on
its banks are Orel, Kaluga, and Riazan, while Moscow stands on an affluent.

OKEN, LORENZ, German naturalist; was professor first at Jena, then at Münich, and finally at
Zurich, his settlement in the latter being due to the disfavour with which his political opinions,
published in a journal of his called the Iris, were received in Germany; much of his scientific
doctrine was deduced from a transcendental standpoint or by a priori reasonings; is mentioned
in "Sartor" as one with whom Teufelsdröck in his early speculations had some affinity (1779-1851).

OKHOTSK, SEA OF, an immense sheet of water in Eastern Siberia, lying between the peninsula
of Kamchatka and the mainland, with the Kurile Islands stretched across its mouth; is scarcely
navigable, being infested by fogs.

OKLAHOMA (62), a United States territory, stretching southward from Kansas to the Red River,
with Texas on the W. and Indian Territory on the E., is a third larger than Scotland, and presents
a prairie surface crossed by the Arkansas, Cimarron, and Canadian Rivers, and rising to the
Wichita Mountains in the S. There are many brackish streams; the rainfall is light, hence the
soil can be cultivated only in parts. Ceded to the United States under restrictions by the
tribes of the Indian Territory in 1866, there were various attempts by immigrants from neighbouring
States to effect settlements in Oklahoma, which the Government frustrated by military interference,
maintaining the treaty with the Indians till 1889, when it finally purchased from them their
claim. At noon on April 22, 1889, the area was opened for settlement, and by twilight 50,000
had entered and taken possession of claims. The territory was organised in 1890; embedded in
it lies the Cherokee Outlet, still held by the Indians, but on the extinction of their interests
to revert to Oklahoma. The chief town is Oklahoma (5).

OKUMA, COUNT, a Japanese, rose into office from the part he took in the Japanese Revolution
of 1868, held in succession but resigned the offices of Minister of Finance and of Foreign
Affairs, organised the Progressive Party in 1881, and entered office again in 1896; organised
in 1898 the first government for a time in Japan on a party basis agreeably to his idea.

OLAF, ST., a Norwegian king; wrested the throne from Eric, and set himself to propagate Christianity
by fire and sword, excited disaffection among his people, who rebelled and overpowered him
with the assistance of Cnut of Denmark, so that he fled to his brother-in-law, Jaroslav of
Russia; by his help he tried to recover the throne, put was defeated and slain, his body being
buried in Trondhjem; he was canonised in 1164, and is patron saint of Norway.

OLAÜS, the name of three early kings of Sweden and of five of Norway, who figured more or less
in the history of their respective countries.

OLBERS, HEINRICH, German astronomer, born near Bremen; discovered five of the comets and the
two planetoids Pallas and Vesta (1758-1840).

OLD BAILEY, a Court or Sessions house adjoining NEWGATE (q. v.), in London, for the trial of
offences committed within a certain radius round the city, and practically presided over by
the Recorder and the Common Serjeant of London, though theoretically by the Lord Mayor, Lord
Chancellor, and others.

OLD CATHOLICS, a section of the Roman Catholic Church in Germany and Switzerland that first
announced itself in Münich on the declaration in 1870 of the dogma of the infallibility of
the Pope, the prime movers in the formation of the protestation against which were Dr. Döllinger
and Professor Friedrich, backed by 44 professors of the university; the movement thus begun
has not extended itself to any considerable extent.

OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN, a name given to Hassan ben Sabbah, the founder in the 11th century
and his successors of a formidable Mohammedan dynasty in Syria, whose residence was in the
mountain fastnesses of the country, and whose following was known by the name of ASSASSINS (q. v.).

OLD MAN OF THE SEA, a monster Sindbad the Sailor encountered on his fifth voyage, who fastened
on his back and so clung to him that he could not shake him off till he made him drunk.

OLD MORTALITY, a character in Scott's novel of the name, the original of which was one Robert
Paterson, who, as related of him, went about the country visiting the churchyards, and renewing
the moss-covered tombs of the COVENANTERS (q. v.).

OLD NOLL, an epithet applied by his Royalist contemporaries to Oliver Cromwell.

OLDBUCK, JONATHAN, the antiquary in Scott's novel of the name, devoted to the study and collection
of old coins, a man with an irritable temper, due to disappointment in a love affair.

OLDBURY (20), a busy manufacturing town in Worcestershire, 3 m. E. of Dudley, has chemical,
iron, and steel works, and factories of various kinds.

OLDCASTLE, SIR JOHN, Lord Cobham, distinguished himself in arms under Henry IV. in 1411, embraced
Lollardism, which he could not be prevailed on to renounce, though remonstrated with by Henry
V.; was tried for heresies and committed to the Tower, but escaped to Wales; charged with abetting
insurrection on religious grounds, and convicted, his body was hung in chains as a traitor,
and in this attitude, as a heretic, burned to death in 1417; he was a zealous disciple of Wiclif,
and did much to disseminate his principles.

OLDENBURG (355), a German grand-duchy, embracing these three territories: 1, Oldenburg proper,
the largest, is let into Hanover with its northern limit on the North Sea; it is a tract of
moorland, sand-down, and fen, watered by the Weser, Hunte and tributaries of the Ems; here
is the capital, Oldenburg (22), on the Hunte, 30 m. NW. of Bremen, in the midst of meadows,
where a famous breed of horses is raised. 2, Lübeck, lying in Holstein, N. of but not including
the city of Lübeck. 3, Birkenfeldt, lying among the Hundsrück Mountains, in the S. of Rhenish
Prussia; independent since 1180, Danish 1667-1773, Oldenburg acquired Lübeck in 1803, and Birkenfeldt
in 1815, when it was raised to the rank of grand-duchy.

OLDHAM (184), on the Medlock, 7 m. NE. of Manchester, is the largest of the cotton manufacturing
towns round that centre; it has 300 cotton mills, and manufactures besides silks, velvets,
hats, and machinery; there is a lyceum, and a school of science and art.

OLDYS, WILLIAM, bibliographer, was a man of dissolute life, the illegitimate son of a chancellor
of Lincoln; he was librarian to the Earl of Oxford for 10 years, and afterwards received the
appointment of Norroy king-of-arms; besides many bibliographical and literary articles, he
wrote a "Life of Raleigh" and "The Harleian Miscellany" (1696-1761).

OLÉRON (17), an island of France, in the Bay of Biscay, at the mouth of the Charente, 11½ m.
long and from 3 to 7 broad, is separated from the mainland by a shallow, narrow channel.

OLGA, ST., a Scandinavian pagan prince, converted to Christianity and baptized as Helena; laboured
for the propagation of the Christian faith among his subjects, was canonised after in 905,
and is one of the saints of the Russian Church. Festival, July 21.

OLIFAUNT, NIGEL, the hero in Scott's "Fortunes of Nigel."

OLIPHANT, LAURENCE, religious enthusiast and mystic, born in Perthshire; spent his boyhood
in Ceylon, where his father was chief-justice; early conceived a fondness for adventure, accompanied
Lord Elgin to Washington as his secretary, and afterwards to China and Japan; became M.P. for
the Stirling Burghs, mingled much in London society, contributed to Blackwood, and wrote "Piccadilly,"
pronounced by Mrs. Oliphant "one of the most brilliant satires on society ever published";
parliamentary people and parliamentary life being nowise to his liking he soon threw both up
for life in a community with Harris at Lake Erie, U.S., whence, after two years' probation,
he returned to resume life in the wide world; while in France during the Franco-German War,
he married one Alice l'Estrange, an alliance which grew into one of the most intimate character;
with her he went to Palestine, pitched his tent under the shadow of Mount Carmel, and wrote
two mystical books under her inspiration, which abode with him after she was dead; after her
decease he married a Miss Owen, that she might help him in his work, but all she had opportunity
to do was to minister to him on his deathbed (1829-1888).

OLIPHANT, MRS. MARGARET (née Wilson), authoress, born at Wallyford, near Musselburgh, a lady
of varied abilities and accomplishments, and distinguished in various departments of literature,
began her literary career as a novelist and a contributor to Blackwood, with which she kept
up a lifelong connection; her first work which attracted attention was "Passages in the Life
of Mrs. Margaret Maitland," and her first success as a novelist was the "Chronicles of Carlingford";
she wrote on history, biography, and criticism, the "Makers of Florence, of Venice, of Modern
Rome," "Lives of Dante, Cervantes, and Edward Irving," among other works, and was engaged on
a narrative of the publishing-house of Blackwood when she died; she might have distinguished
herself more had she kept within a more limited range; her last days were days of sorrow under
heavy bereavement (1828-1897).

OLIVAREZ, COUNT D', a Spanish statesman, born at Rome, where his father was ambassador; was
the confidant and minister of Philip IV., and the political adversary of Richelieu; was one
of the ablest statesmen Spain ever had, but was unfortunate in his conduct of foreign affairs
(1587-1645).

OLIVER, a favourite paladin of Charlemagne's, who, along with Roland, rode by his side, and
whose name, along with Roland's, has passed into the phrase, a "Roland for an Oliver," meaning
one good masterstroke for another, such as both these knights never failed to deliver.

OLIVES, MOUNT OF, or MOUNT OLIVET, a ridge with three summits, stretching N. and S., E. of
Jerusalem, in height 150 ft. above the city, 400 ft. above the intervening valley of Kedron,
and 2682 ft. above the sea-level; so called as at one time studded with olive-trees; is celebrated
as the scene of some of the most sacred events in the life of Christ.

OLLIVIER, ÉMILE, French statesman, born at Marseilles; bred for the bar, and eminent at it;
became Prime Minister under Louis Napoleon in 1870; precipitated "with a light heart" the country
into a war with Germany, to his own overthrow; retired thereafter to Italy, but returned in
1872, and devoted himself to literature; died at Geneva (1825-1876).

OLMÜTZ (20), a strongly fortified city in Moravia, and an important centre of trade, and the
former capital of the country; suffered severely in the Thirty and the Seven Years' Wars.

OLYMPIA, a plain in a valley in Elis, on the Peloponnesus, traversed by the river Alpheus,
and in which the Olympic Games were celebrated every fifth year in honour of Zeus, and adorned
with temples (one to Zeus and another to Hera), statues, and public buildings.

OLYMPIAD, a name given to the period of four years between one celebration of the Olympic Games
and another, the first recorded dating from July 776 B.C.

OLYMPIAS, the wife of Philip II. of Macedonia, and mother of Alexander the Great; divorced
by Philip, who married another, she fled to Epirus, and instigated the assassination of Philip
and the execution of her rival; returned to Macedonia on the accession of her son, who always
treated her with respect, but allowed her no part in public affairs; on his death she dethroned
his successor, but driven to bay in her defence afterwards, she was compelled to surrender
the power she had assumed, and was put to death 316 B.C.

OLYMPIC GAMES, were originally open only to competitors of pure Hellenic descent, and the reward
of the victors was but a wreath of wild olive, though to this their fellow-citizens added more
substantial honours; they consisted of foot and chariot races, and feats of strength as well
as dexterity. See OLYMPIA.

OLYMPUS, a mountain range in Greece, between Thessaly and Macedonia, the highest peak of which
is 9750 ft.; the summit of it was the fabled abode of the Greek gods; it is clothed with forests
of pine and other trees.

OLNEY, a little town in Buckinghamshire, associated with the life of Cowper, and where he wrote,
along with John Newton, the "Olney Hymns."

OM, a mystic word among the Hindus and Buddhists; presumed to be latent with some magic virtue,
and used on solemn occasions as a sort of spiritual charm efficacious with the upper powers,
and potent to draw down divine assistance in an hour of need.

OMAGH (4), on the Strule, 34 m. S. of Londonderry; is the county town of Tyrone; though a very
ancient town it has been rebuilt since 1743, when it was destroyed by fire; it is the head-quarters
of the NW. military district.

OMAHA (102), chief city of Nebraska, on the W. bank of the Missouri, 20 m. above the confluence
of the Platte; is connected by a bridge with Council Bluffs on the opposite shore; it has many
fine buildings, including colleges and schools; its silver-smelting works are the largest in
the world; it ranks third in the pork-packing industry, and has besides manufactures of linseed
oil, boilers, and safes; an important railway centre, it lies midway between the termini of
the Union Pacific Railroad; near it are the military head-quarters of the Platte department.

OMAN, a territory of Arabia, lying along the shores of the Persian Gulf and the Arabian Sea,
round the south-eastern nob of the peninsula; has some stretches of very fertile country where
there happens to be water for irrigation, but the coast is very hot and not healthy. The region
is subject to the Sultan of Muscat, who is in turn a pensioner of the Anglo-Indian Government.

OMAR, the successor of Abu-Bekr, and the second Caliph from 634 to 644; was at first a persecutor
of the Faithful, but underwent in 615 a sudden conversion like Said, with a like result; was
vizier of Abu-Bekr before he succeeded him; swept and subdued Syria, Persia, and Egypt with
the sword in the name of Allah, but is accused of having burned the rich library of Alexandria
on the plea that it contained books hostile to the faith of Islam; he was an austere man, and
was assassinated by a Persian slave whose wrongs he refused to redress.

OMAR KHAYYÁM, astronomer-poet of Persia, born at Naishapur, in Khorassan; lived in the later
half of the 11th century, and died in the first quarter of the 12th; wrote a collection of
poems which breathe an Epicurean spirit, and while they occupy themselves with serious problems
of life, do so with careless sportiveness, intent he on the enjoyment of the sensuous pleasures
of life, like an easy-going Epicurean. The great problems of destiny don't trouble the author,
they are no concern of his, and the burden of his songs assuredly is, as his translator says,
"If not 'let us eat, let us drink, for to-morrow we die.'"

OMAR PASHA, general in the Turkish army, was born an Austrian, his proper name Michael Lattas,
and educated at the military school of Thurn; guilty of a breach of discipline, he ran away
to Bosnia, turned Mohammedan, and henceforth threw in his lot with the Turks; he became writing-master
to the Ottoman heir, Abdul-Medjid, and on the succession of the latter in 1839 was made a colonel;
he was military governor of Lebanon in 1842, won distinction in suppressing rebellions in Albania,
Bosnia, and Kurdistan, but his chief services were rendered in the Russian War; he successfully
defended Kalafat in 1853, entered Bucharest in 1854, and defeated 40,000 Russians next year
at Eupatoria in the Crimea; his capture of Cetinje, Montenegro, in 1862 was a difficult feat
(1806-1871).

O'MEARA, BARRY EDWARD, a surgeon, born in Ireland, who accompanied Napoleon to St. Helena,
and became his physician, having been surgeon on board the Bellerophon when the emperor surrendered
himself; is remembered as the author of "A Voice from St. Helena; or, Napoleon in Exile," a
book which from its charges against Sir Hudson Lowe created no small sensation on its appearance
(1786-1836).

OMMIADES, an Arab dynasty of 14 caliphs which reigned at Damascus from 661 to 720; dethroned
by the Abassides, they were under Abder-Rahman I. welcomed in Spain, and they established themselves
in Cordova, where they ruled from 756 to 1031.

OMNIPRESENCE, an attribute of the Divine Being as all-present in every section of space and
moment of time throughout the universe.

OMPHALË, a queen of Lydia, to whom Hercules was sold for three years for murdering Iphitus,
and who so won his affection that he married her, and was content to spin her wool for her
and wear the garments of a woman while she donned and wore his lion's skin.

OMSK (32), capital of Western Siberia, on the Om, at its confluence with the Irtish, 1800 m.
E. of Moscow; is within the area of Russian colonisation, and has a military academy, Greek
and Roman Catholic cathedrals, and large cattle trade; a number of its inhabitants are political
exiles from Europe.

ONEGA, LAKE, in the NW. of Russia, next to Ladoga the largest in Europe, nearly three times
the size of Norfolkshire, being 140 m. long and 59 broad; has an irregular shore, deeply indented
in the W., many inflowing rivers, but is drained only by the Swir; ice-bound for four months,
there is busy traffic the rest of the year; navigation is promoted by canals, but hindered
by many reefs; fish abound in the waters.

ONOMATOPOEIA, formations of words resembling in sound that of the things denoted by them.

ONTARIO (2,114), third largest, most populous, richest, and most important province of Canada,
lies N. of the great lakes between Quebec and Manitoba, and is thrice the size of Great Britain;
the surface is mostly undulating; there are many small lakes, the chief rivers flow eastward
to join the Ottawa; agriculture is the chief industry, enormous crops of wheat, maize, and
other cereals are raised; stock-rearing and dairy-farming are important; the climate is subject
to less extremes than that of Quebec, but the winter is still severe; there are rich mineral
deposits, especially of iron, copper, lead, and silver, petroleum and salt; manufactures of
agricultural implements, hardware, textiles, and leather are carried on; Toronto (181) is the
largest town, Ottawa (44) is the capital of the Dominion, Hamilton (49) an important railway
centre; the prosperity of the province is largely promoted by the magnificent waterways, lakes,
rivers, and canals with which it is furnished. Founded by loyalists from the United States
after the Declaration of Independence, the province was constituted in 1791 as Upper Canada,
united to Quebec or Lower Canada in 1840, it received its present name on the federation of
Canada in 1867; education in it is free and well conducted; there are many colleges and universities;
municipal and provincial government is enlightened and well organised; the prevalent religious
faith is Protestant.

ONTARIO, LAKE, in area almost equal to Wales, is the smallest and easternmost of the five great
lakes of the St. Lawrence Basin, North America; it lies between the province of Ontario, Canada,
and New York State; receives the Niagara River in the SW., several streams on both sides, and
issues in the St. Lawrence in the NE.; on its shores stand Hamilton, Toronto, and Kingston
on the N., and Oswego on the S.; canals connect it with Lake Erie and the Hudson River, and
it is a busy and always open highway of commerce.

ONTOLOGY, another name for METAPHYSICS (q. v.) or the science of pure being, being at its living
source in spirit or God, or Nature viewed as divine, especially as the ground of the spiritual
in man and giving substantive being to him.

ONYX, a variety of agate or chalcedony, in which occur even layers of white and black or white
and brown, sharply defined in good specimens; they come from India, and are highly valued for
cameo-cutting.

OOSTERZEE, JAN JAKOB VAN, a theologian of the Dutch Church, born at Rotterdam; became professor
at Utrecht, wrote several theological and exegetical works on evangelical lines (1817-1882).

OPAL, a variety of quartz, of which the finest kind, precious opal, is translucent, with blue
or yellow tint, and when polished with a convex surface shows an admirable play of colours;
it is found chiefly at Cerwenitza, Austria.

OPEN SECRET, THE, the secret that lies open to all, but is seen into and understood by only
few, applied especially to the mystery of the life, the spiritual life, which is the possession
of all.

OPEN, SESAMË, the magic formula the pronunciation of which opened the robbers' stronghold in
the "Arabian Nights."

OPERA, a drama set to music and acted and sung to the accompaniment of a full orchestra, of
which there are several kinds according as they are grave, comic, or romantic.

OPERA BOUFFE, an opera in an extravagant burlesque style, with characters, music, and other
accompaniments to match; is the creation of OFFENBACH (q. v.), his more distinguished successors
in the production of which have been Lecocq, Hervé, and Strauss.

OPHELIA, the daughter of Polonius in "Hamlet" and in love with the lord, but whose heart, from
the succession of shocks it receives, is shattered and broken.

OPHICLEIDE, a keyed brass wind instrument of recent invention, of great compass and power,
and of which there are two kinds in use.

OPHIR, a region in the East of uncertain situation, frequently referred to in Scripture as
a region from which gold and precious stones were imported.

OPHITES, a sect of Gnostics who regarded the serpent as a benefactor of the race in having
persuaded Eve to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in disregard, or rather
in defiance, of the warning of the God of the Jews.

OPIE, JOHN, English artist, born near Truro, Cornwall; began to learn his father's trade of
carpenter, but turning to art went with Dr. Wolcott to London in 1780; for a year he had phenomenal
success as a portrait-painter; on the wane of his popularity he turned to scriptural and historical
painting and to illustration; after being Associate for a year he was elected Academician in
1787; besides some lectures on art, he wrote a Life of Reynolds and other works (1761-1807).

OPINICUS, a fabulous winged creature with the head of a griffin, the body of a lion, and the
tail of a camel; a heraldic symbol.

OPITZ, MARTIN VON, a German poet, born in Silesia; was much patronised by the princes of Germany;
was crowned with laurel, and ennobled by Ferdinand II.; his poetry was agreeable to classic
models, but at the expense of soul, though, to his credit it must be said, the German language
and German poetry owe him a deep debt (1597-1639).

OPORTO (140), at the mouth of the Douro, 200 m. N. of Lisbon, the chief manufacturing city
of Portugal, and second in commercial importance; is the head-quarters of the trade in port
wine; the industries include cloth, silk, hat, and porcelain manufacture, tobacco, metal-casting,
and tanning; besides wine it exports cattle, fruit, cork, and copper. There are many old churches,
schools, a library, and two picture-galleries.

OPPORTUNIST, name given to a politician whose policy it is to take advantage of, or be guided
by, circumstances.

OPTIMISM, the doctrine or belief that in the system of things all that happens, the undesirable
no less than the desirable, is for the best.

OPUS OPERATUM (i. e. the work wrought), a Latin phrase used to denote the spiritual effect
in the performance of a religious rite which accrues from the virtue inherent in it, or by
grace imparted to it, irrespectively of the administrator.

ORAN (74), the busiest port in Algeria, is 260 m. W. of Algiers; it has a Roman Catholic cathedral,
a mosque, a school, a college, and two castles, and exports esparto grass, iron ore, and cereals.

ORANGE RIVER or GARIEP, chief river of South Africa, rises in the eastern highlands of Basutoland,
and flows 100 m. westward to the Atlantic, receiving the Vaal and the Caledon as tributaries,
and having Cape Colony on the S. bank and the Orange Free State, Griqualand West, Bechuanaland,
and German Namaqualand on the N.; a bar at the mouth and the aridity of its lower course make
it unfit for navigation.

ORANGE RIVER COLONY, formerly Orange Free State (380), lying between the Vaal and the Orange
Rivers, Griqualand West, and the Drakenberg Mountains; has an area nearly the size of England,
with a healthy, temperate climate; undulating plains slope northward and southward, from which
rise isolated hills called kopjes. The chief industries are the rearing of sheep, cattle, horses,
and ostriches; coal-mining in the N. and diamond-seeking in the SW.; the exports comprise wool,
hides, and diamonds. Founded by Dutch Boers from Natal, it was annexed by Britain in 1848,
but granted independence in 1854. The capital, Bloemfontein (3), is connected by a railway
with Johannesberg and with the Cape. Having made common cause with the South African Republic
in the Boer War, it was annexed by Great Britain in 1900. At present (1905) it is under the
supreme authority of the Governor of Orange River and the Transvaal Colonies, assisted by a
Lieutenant-Governor and an Executive Council.

ORANGEMEN, a name given to an association of Protestants in Ireland instituted to uphold the
Protestant succession to the crown, and the Protestant religion as settled at the Revolution
of 1688, and which derives this name from William, the Prince of Orange, on whose accession
to the throne Protestantism was established; it became dormant for a time after its institution,
but it has shown very decided signs of life at political crises when Protestantism seemed in
danger, such as often to call for some firm handling.

ORATORIO, a musical composition on a sacred theme, dramatic in form and associated with orchestral
accompaniments, but without scenic accessories; it derives its name from the oratory of St.
Philip Neri at Rome, in which a composition of the kind was first performed, and was a musical
development of the MIRACLE PLAYS (q. v.).

ORATORY, CONGREGATION OF THE, community of secular priests formed by St. Philip of Neri (q.
v.), and bound by no religious vow, each one of which is independent of the others; it consists
of novices, triennial fathers, decennial fathers, and a superior, their functions being to
preach and hear confession.

ORCAGNA, a Florentine painter, sculptor, and architect, did several frescoes; was architect
of the cathedral of Orviëto; his masterpiece an absolutely unique marble tabernacle in the
church of Or San Michele, Florence (1329-1389).

ORCHARDSON, WILLIAM QUILLER, English genre-painter, born in Edinburgh; his pictures are numerous,
and among the best and most popular, "The Challenge," "The Queen of the Woods," "On Board the
Bellerophon," "The Mariage de Convenance"; b. 1835.

ORCUS (i. e. place of confinement), another name for Hades, or the "World of the Dead"; also
of the god of the nether world.

ORDEAL, a test by fire, water, poison, wager of battle, or the like, of the innocence or guilt
of persons in appeal thereby to the judgment of God in default of other evidence, on the superstitious
belief that by means of it God would interfere to acquit the innocent and condemn the guilty,
a test very often had recourse to among savage or half-civilised nations.

ORDERICUS VITALIS, a mediæval chronicler, born near Shrewsbury; was a monk of the Abbey of
St. Evreul, in Normandy; wrote an ecclesiastical history of Normandy and England--a veracious
document, though an incondite; d. 1143.

ORDERS IN COUNCIL are issued by the British Sovereign, with the advice of the Privy Council,
and within limits defined by Parliament. In cases of emergency these limits have been disregarded,
and Parliament subsequently asked to homologate the action by granting an indemnity to those
concerned.

OREADES in the Greek mythology nymphs of the mountains, with special names appropriate to the
district they severally inhabit.

OREGON (314), one of the United States, on the Pacific seaboard, with Washington, Idaho, Nevada,
and California on its inland borders, nearly twice the size of England, has the Coast Mountains
along the W., the Cascade range parallel 60 m. E., and 70 farther E. the Blue Mountains. The
centre and E. is hilly, and affords excellent grazing and dairy-farming ground; the western
or Willamette Valley is arable, producing cereals, potatoes, tobacco, hops, and fruit. Between
the Coast Mountains and the sea excessive rains fall. The State is rich in timber, coal, iron,
gold, and silver; and the rivers (of which the Columbia on the N. border is the chief) abound
in salmon. Owing to the mountain shelter and the Japanese ocean currents the climate is mild.
The capital is Salem (4), the largest city Portland (46), both on the Willamette River. The
State offers excellent educational facilities; it has 17 libraries, many schools and colleges,
and the Blue Mountain University. The State (constituted in 1859) forms part of the territory
long in dispute between Great Britain and the United States. It was occupied jointly from 1818
to 1846, when a compromise fixed the present boundary of British Columbia.

ORELLI, CONRAD VON, theologian, born at Zurich; professor at Basel; has written commentaries
on Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the minor prophets; b. 1846.

ORELLI, JOHANN KASPAR VON, a Swiss scholar, born at Zurich, where he was professor of Classical
Philology; edited editions of the classics, particularly Horace, Tacitus, and Cicero, highly
esteemed for the scholarship they show and the critical judgment (1787-1849).

ORESTES, the son of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, and brother of Electra and Iphigenia, who killed
his mother to avenge the murder by her of his father and went mad afterwards, but was acquitted
by the Areopagus and became king of Argos and Lacedæmon; his friendship for Pylades, who married
his sister Electra, has passed into a proverb; the tragic story is a favourite theme of the
Greek tragedians.

ORFILA, M. J. BONAVENTURE, French chemist and physician, born in Minorca; mainly distinguished
for his works on toxicology (1787-1853).

ORGANISM, a structure instinct with life, and possessed of organs that discharge functions
subordinate and ministrative to the life of the whole.

ORGANON, a term adopted by Bacon to denote a system of rules for the regulation of scientific
inquiry.

ORGIES, festivals among the Greeks and Orientals generally connected with the worship of nature
divinities, in particular DEMETER (q. v.), DIONYSOS (q. v.), and the Cabiri, celebrated with
mystic rites and much licentious behaviour.

ORIFLAMME (i. e. flame of gold), the ancient banner of the kings of France, borne before them
as they marched to war; it was a red flag mounted on a gilded staff, was originally the banner
of the abbey of St. Denis, and first assumed as the royal standard by Louis VI. as he marched
at the head of his army against the Emperor Henry V. in 1124, but one hears no more of it after
the battle of Agincourt in 1415, much as it was at one time regarded as the banner of the very
Lord of Hosts.

ORIGEN, one of the most eminent of the Fathers of the Church, born at Alexandria it is presumed,
the son of a Christian who suffered martyrdom under Severus, whom he honoured and ever reverenced
for his faith in Christ; studied the Greek philosophers that he might familiarise himself with
their standpoint in contrast with that of the Christian; taught in Alexandria and elsewhere
the religion he had inherited from his father, but was not sufficiently regardful of episcopal
authority, and after being ordained by another bishop than that of his own diocese was deposed
and banished; after this he settled in Cæsarea, set up a celebrated school, and had Gregory
Thaumaturgus for a pupil, whence he made journeys to other parts but under much persecution,
and died at Tyre; he wrote numerous works, apologetical and exegetical as well as doctrinal,
besides a "Hexapla," a great source of textual criticism, being a work in which the Hebrew
Scriptures and five Greek versions of them are arranged side by side; in his exegesis he had
a fancy for allegorical interpretation, in which he frequently indulged, but in doing so he
was entitled to some license, seeing he was a man who constantly lived in close communion with
the Unseen Author of all truth (185-253).

ORIGINAL SIN, the name given by the theologians to the inherent tendency to sin on the part
of all mankind, due, as alleged, to their descent from Adam and the imputation of Adam's guilt
to them as sinning in him.

ORINOCO RIVER, a great river in the NE. of South America, rises in the Parimé Mountains, and
flowing westward bifurcates, the Cassiquiare channel going southward and joining the Rio Negro,
the Orinoco proper continuing westward, north and east through Venezuela, and reaching the
Atlantic after a course of 1500 m. by an enormous delta; it receives thousands of tributaries,
but cascades half-way up stop navigation.

ORION, in the Greek mythology a handsome giant and hunter, was struck blind by Dionysos for
attempting an outrage on Merope, but recovered his eyesight on exposing his eyeballs to the
arrowy rays of Aurora, and became afterwards the companion of Artemis on the hunting-field,
but he fell a victim to the jealousy of Apollo, the brother of Artemis, and was transformed
by the latter into a constellation in the sky, where he figures as a giant wearing a lion's
skin and a girdle or belt and wielding a club.

ORISSA (4,047), the name of an ancient Indian kingdom, independent till 1568, and falling into
British possession in 1803, is now restricted to the most south-easterly province of Bengal.
It is larger than Wales, and comprises a hilly inland tract and an alluvial plain formed by
the deltas of the Mahanadi, Brahmani, and Baitarani Rivers, well irrigated, and producing great
crops of rice, wheat, pulse, and cotton. It has no railways, and poor roads; transport is by
canal and river. Chief towns Cuttack, Balasor, and Puri.

ORKNEY ISLANDS (30), an archipelago of 90 islands, Pomona the largest, lying north of the Scottish
mainland, from which they are separated by the Pentland Firth, 7 m. broad. The scenery is tame,
the climate is mild and moist; there are no trees, crops are poor; the chief industries are
fishing and stock-raising; Kirkwall, with a cathedral, and Stromness are the chief towns. Seized
from the Picts by Norse vikings, they passed to James III. as security for the dowry of Margaret
of Denmark and were never redeemed. The natives show their Scandinavian ancestry in their features,
and the nomenclature is largely Scandinavian.

ORLANDO, a hero who figures in the romantic tales connected with the adventures of Charlemagne
and his paladins, a knight of pure and true blood; had a magical horn called Olivant, with
which he wrought wonders.

ORLEANS (61), on the Loire, 75 m. by rail SW. of Paris, is the capital of the province of Loiret,
a trading rather than an industrial town, commerce being fostered by excellent railway, canal,
and river communications; the town is of ancient date, and its streets are full of quaint wooden
houses; there is an old cathedral and museum; many historic associations include the raising
of the siege in 1429 by Joan of Arc, whose house is still shown, and two captures by the Germans,
1870

ORLEANS, DUKES OF, the name of four distinct branches of the royal family of France, the first
commencing with PHILIPPE, fifth son of Philippe of Valois, in 1344; the second with LOUIS,
brother of Charles VI. (1371-1407); the third with JEAN BAPTISTE GASCON, brother of Louis XIII.,
who took part in the plots against Richelieu, and was appointed lieutenant-general on the death
of his brother (1608-1660); the fourth with PHILIPPE I., brother of Louis XIV. (1640-1701);
PHILIPPE II., son of the preceding, governed France during the minority of Louis XV.; involved
his finances by his connection with Louis, and did injury to the public morals by the depravity
of his life (1674-1723); LOUIS-PHILIPPE, his grandson, lieutenant-general and governor of Dauphiné
(1725-1785); LOUIS-PHILIPPE JOSEPH, son of preceding, surnamed Philippe-Egalité, played a conspicuous
part in the Revolution, and perished on the scaffold (1747-1793); and LOUIS-PHILIPPE, his son
(q. v.); PRINCE LOUIS ROBERT, eldest son of Comte de Paris, claimant to the throne, b. 1869.

ORLOFF, the name of two brothers, Russians: GREGORY, the favourite of Catherine II. (1734-1783),
and ALEXIS, a man remarkable for his stature and strength, who murdered Peter III. and was
banished by Paul I. (1737-1809).

ORME, ROBERT, historian, born in Travancore; entered the East India Company's service, in which
he was appointed historiographer; wrote the history of its military transactions from 1745
to 1763 (1728-1801).

ORMOLU, a name given to bronze or brass of a golden-yellow colour, and resembling gold.

ORMONDE, JAMES BUTLER, DUKE OF, supporter of the cause of Charles I. in Ireland during the
war between the king and the Parliament, on the ruin of which he repaired to the Continent
to promote the restoration of the dynasty; was appointed Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland after the
Restoration, and escaped from a party of ruffians headed by Colonel Blood, who dragged him
from his carriage with intent to hang him; he was a brave man, and much esteemed by his friends
(1610-1688).

ORMUZ, an island at the mouth of the Persian Gulf, once the head-quarters of the Persian trade
with India.

ORMUZD, the good deity of the Zoroastrian religion, the embodiment of the principle of good
as Ahriman is of the principle of evil, the creator of light and order as the other of darkness
and disorder. See DUALISM.

ORONTES, the principal river of Syria, rises in the western slopes of Anti-Lebanon, and flows
northward through Syria, turning at last SW. to the Mediterranean; its course of 150 m. is
through country in many parts well cultivated, past the towns of Hems and Hamah, and latterly
through a woody ravine of great beauty.

OROSIUS, PAULUS, Spanish Christian apologist of the 5th century, born at Terragona, a disciple
of Augustine; wrote at his suggestion against the pagans a history of the world used as a text-book
in the Middle Ages.

ORPHEUS, in the Greek mythology son of Apollo and the Muse Calliopë, famed for his skill on
the lyre, from which the strains were such as not only calmed and swayed the rude soul of nature,
but persuaded even the inexorable Pluto to relent; for one day when his wife Eurydice was taken
away from him, he descended with his lyre to the lower world and prevailed on the nether king
by the spell he wielded to allow her to accompany him back, but on the condition that he must
not, as she followed him, turn round and look; this condition he failed to fulfil, and he lost
her again, but this time for ever; whereupon, as the story goes, he gave himself up to unappeasable
lamentings, which attracted round him a crowd of upbraiding Mænades, who in their indignation
took up stones to stone him and mangled him to death, only his lyre as it floated down the
river seaward kept sounding "Eurydice! Eurydice!" till it was caught up by Zeus and placed
in memorial of him among the stars of the sky.

ORRERY is a mechanical toy which exhibits, by an arrangement of rods, balls, and toothed wheels,
the sun, the planets, and their moons, all performing their respective motions; so named after
the Earl of Orrery, for whom Charles Boyle made the first one in 1715.

ORSINI, FELICE, Italian conspirator, born of a noble family, but bred in the atmosphere of
revolution and secret plotting; with three others attempted the life of Louis Napoleon; was
defended by Jules Favre, but condemned to death and guillotined (1819-1858).

ORSOVA, two fortified towns on opposite banks of the Danube, at the Iron Gates: Old Orsova
(3), in Hungary, is a trading and shipping centre; New Orsova, in Servia, was repeatedly taken
and retaken in the wars of the 18th century.

ORVIËTO (7), an Italian city in Perugia, 78 m. by rail N. of Rome, is noted for its wines;
it dates from Roman times, and in the Middle Ages was a frequent refuge of the Popes.

OSCANS, a primitive people of Italy occupying Campania; were subjugated in the 5th century
B.C. by the Samnites, who amalgamated with them and were subsequently incorporated with the
Romans; the Oscan tongue, a cruder form of Latin, may have had its own literature, and is still
extant on coins and in inscriptions.

OSCAR I., king of Sweden and Norway, son of Bernadotte, born at Paris, reigned from 1844 to
1857 (1799-1858); OSCAR II., king of Sweden and Norway, son of preceding, succeeded his brother
Charles XV. in 1872, has distinguished himself in literature by translating Goethe's "Faust"
into Swedish, and by a volume of minor poems under his nom de plume Oscar Frederick; b. 1829.

OSCOTT, a village in Staffordshire, 4 m. N. of Birmingham, the site of the Roman Catholic College
of St. Mary's, which claims to be the centre of Catholicism in England; founded in 1752, it
was housed in magnificent buildings in 1835, and became exclusively a training-school for the
priesthood in 1889, though it originally had laymen among its students.

O'SHAUGHNESSY, ARTHUR, poet, born in London; held a post in the natural history department
of the British Museum; wrote, among other works, three notable volumes of poems, "The Epic
of Women," "Lays of France," and "Music and Moonlight" (1844-1881).

OSIANDER, ANDREAS, a German Reformer, born near Nüremberg, and attaching himself to Luther,
became preacher there, and eventually professor of Theology at Königsberg; involved himself
in a bitter controversy with Chemnitz on justification, ascribing it not to imputation, but
the germination of divine grace in the heart, or the mystical union of the soul with God, a
controversy which was kept up by his followers after his death (1498-1552).

OSIRIS, one of the principal gods of Egypt, the husband of Isis, who was his sister and the
father of Horus, who avenged the wrongs he suffered at the hands of the Earth, his mother,
in whose womb he was born and in whose womb he was buried; he was the god of all the earth-born,
and subject to the like fate.

OSMANLIS, name given to the Ottomans, from that of their founder, Osman or Othman.

OSMOSE. If two liquids be separated from each other only by a skin or parchment, each will
percolate through the membrane and diffuse into the other; the process is known as osmose,
and is constantly illustrated in the animal and vegetable world.

OSNABRÜCK (35), a town in Hanover, 70 m. W. of Hanover, with a bishopric founded by Charlemagne,
which was held by a brother of George I., and was secularised in 1803.

OSSA, a mountain in Thessaly, famous in Greek mythology. See PELION.

OSSIAN, the heroic poet of the Gaels, the son of Fingal and the king of Morven, said to have
lived in the 3rd century, the theme of whose verse concerns the exploits of Fingal and his
family, the translation of which he brought home from fairyland, to which he had been transported
when he was a boy, and from which he returned when he was old and blind; James Macpherson,
who was no Gaelic scholar, professed to have translated the legend, as published by him in
1760-62-63.

OSTADE, ADRIAN and ISAAC, two Dutch painters, brothers, born at Haarlem; Adrian (1610-1685),
and Isaac (1617-1654).

OSTEND (26), a favourite watering-place on the SW. coast of Belgium, 65 m. due W. of Antwerp;
attracts 20,000 visitors every summer; it is an important seaport, having daily mail communication
with Dover, and it manufactures linen and sail-cloth; fishing is the chief industry; it is
famed for oysters, which are brought over from England and fattened for export.

OSTIA, the seaport of ancient Rome, at the mouth of the Tiber, now in ruins.

OSTRACISM, banishment (lit. by shell) for a term of years by popular vote from Athens of any
individual whose political influence seemed to threaten the liberty of the citizens; the vote
was given by each citizen writing the name of the individual on a shell and depositing it in
some place appointed, and it was only when supported by 6000 citizens that it took effect.

OSTROGOTHS, or the EASTERN GOTHS, a Teutonic people, who, having been induced to settle on
the banks of the Danube, in the pay of the Roman emperor, invaded Italy, and founded in the
end of the 5th century a kingdom under Theodoric, which fell before the arms of Justinian in 532.

OSWALD, ST., king of Northumbria, where by the aid of AIDAN (q. v.) he established the Christian
religion, after his conversion to it himself in exile among the Scots; he died in battle fighting
against Penda, king of Mercia; d.642.

OSWEGO (22), principal port on the E. of Lake Ontario, is at the mouth of the Oswego River,
in New York State; it has 4 miles of quays, and extensive accommodation for grain, and has
a large trade, especially with Canada, in grain and lumber; the falls in the river are utilised
for industrial purposes, the manufacture of starch and cornflour being famed.

OSWESTRY (8), a market-town of Shropshire, 20 m. NW. of Shrewsbury; has an old church, castle,
and school, railway workshops, and some woollen mills.

OTAGO (153), the southernmost province in the South Island, New Zealand, somewhat less in size
than Scotland, is mountainous and inaccessible in the W., but in the E. consists of good arable
plains, where British crops and fruits grow well; the climate is temperate; timber abounds;
there are gold, coal, iron, and copper mines, manufactures of woollen goods, iron, and soap,
and exports wool, gold, cereals, and hides; founded in 1848 by the Otago Association of the
Free Church of Scotland, but immigration became general on the discovery of gold in 1861; education
is promoted by the Government in a university and many colleges and secondary schools; the
capital is Dunedin (23), the chief commercial city of New Zealand, the other principal towns
being Invercargill, Port Chalmers, Oamaru, Milton, and Lawrence.

OTHMAN, the third caliph, who ruled from 614 to 636, was assassinated by Mohammed, son of Abu-Bekr.

OTHMAN or OSMAN I., surnamed the Conqueror the founder of the empire of the Ottoman Turks,
born in Bithynia (1259-1326).

OTHO, Roman emperor, had been a companion of Nero; was created emperor by the Pretorian Guards
in succession to Galba, but being defeated by the German legionaries, stabbed himself to death
after a reign of three months (32-69).

OTIS, JAMES, American lawyer, born in Massachusetts, distinguished as a ringleader in the revolution
in the colonies against the mother-country that led to American independence, for which he
had to pay with his life and the prior loss of his reason (1724-1783).

OTRANTO (2), a decayed seaport and fishing town of SE. Italy, 52 m. S. of Brindisi; founded
by Greek colonists, it was in early times the chief port of trade with Greece; there is a cathedral
and castle.

OTTAWA (44), capital of the Dominion of Canada, is situated 90 m. up the Ottawa River and its
confluence with the St. Lawrence, between the Chaudière and Rideau Falls. Here are the Parliament
buildings, the Governor-General's residence, a Roman Catholic cathedral, numerous colleges
and schools, and a great library. There is some flour-milling and some iron-working, but the
chief industry is lumber felling. Half the people are French Roman Catholics. It became the
capital of the Dominion in 1856, and in ten years after the government was installed in its
new buildings.

OTTAWA RIVER, the largest tributary of the St. Lawrence, and one of the largest Canadian rivers,
is 700 m. long; rising in the W. of Quebec, it flows W., then S., then SE., sometimes in a
narrow channel, sometimes broadening even into lakes, receiving many tributaries, and passing
down rapids and falls, and joins the St. Lawrence at Montreal; down its waters are floated
immense quantities of lumber.

OTTERBURN, a Northumberland village, 16 m. S. of the border, famous as the scene of a struggle
on 19th August 1388 between the Douglases and the Percies, at which the Earl of Douglas lost
his life, and Hotspur was taken prisoner. See CHEVY CHASE.

OTTO or ATTAR OF ROSES, an essential oil obtained by distilling rose leaves of certain species
in water, of very strong odour, pleasant when diluted; is used for perfumery; it is made in
India, Persia, Syria, and at Kezanlik, in Roumelia.

OTTOMANS, the name given to the Turks from OTHMAN (q. v.).

OTWAY, THOMAS, English dramatist, born in Sussex, intended for the Church; took to the stage,
failed as an actor, and became a playwright, his chief production in that line being "Alcibiades,"
"Don Carlos," "The Orphan," and "Venice Preserved," the latter two especially; he led a life
of dissipation, and died miserably, from choking, it is said, in greedily swallowing a piece
of bread when in a state of starvation (1651-1685).

OUBLIETTE, an underground cell, perfectly dark, in which prisoners were subjected to perpetual
confinement, was so called as being a "place of forgetfulness," or where one is forgotten;
they were often put secretly to death.

OUDENARDE, a town in Belgium, 15 m. S. of Ghent, scene of Marlborough's third victory over
the French in 1708; it contains a 16th-century hôtel de ville, with a fine tower, and some
interesting churches.

OUDH (12,551), a province in the Bengal Presidency, occupying the basin of the Gumti, Gogra,
and Rapti Rivers, and stretching from the N. bank of the Ganges to the lower Himalayas; is
a great alluvial plain, through which these rivers flow between natural embankments, affording
irrigation by their marshes and overflows. The sole industry is agriculture; the crops are
wheat and rice, which are exported by rail and river. The population is one of the densest
in the world, the labouring classes being very poor. The only large town is Lucknow (273),
on the Gumti. One of the earliest centres of Aryan civilisation, Oudh became subject to the
empire of Delhi in the 12th century, but was an independent State for a century prior to its
annexation by the British in 1856.

OUDINOT, DUKE OF REGGIO, marshal of France, born at Bar-le-Duc; served with distinction under
the Revolution and the Empire; led the retreat from Moscow, and was wounded; joined the Royalists
after the fall of Napoleon, and died Governor of the Hôtel des Invalides (1767-1847).

OUIDA, the pseudonym of Louise de la Ramée, English novelist, born at Bury St. Edmunds; resides
chiefly at Florence; has written over a score of novels, "Under Two Flags" and "Moths" among
the best; b. 1840.

OUSE, the name of several English rivers, of which the chief are (1) the Yorkshire Ouse, flowing
through the great Vale of York southwards to the Humber, receiving the Swale, Ure, Nidd, Wharfe,
and Aire from the W. and the Derwent from the E., and having in its basin more great towns
than any other river in the country; (2) the Great Ouse, rising in the S. of Northamptonshire,
pursuing a winding course NE. through the plains of Buckingham, Bedford, Huntingdon, Cambridge,
and Norfolk to the Wash; and (3) the Sussex Ouse.

OUTRAM, SIR JAMES, British general, surnamed by Napier the "Bayard of India," born in Derbyshire,
began his military career in Bombay, served in the Afghan War and the war with Persia, played
an important part in the suppression of the Mutiny, marching to the relief of Lucknow, magnanimously
waived his rank in favour of Havelock, and fought under him (1803-1863).

OVERBECK, FRIEDRICH, celebrated German painter, born at Lübeck; was head of the new Romantic
or Pre-Raphaelite school of German art; had devoted himself to religious subjects, abjured
Lutheranism, and joined the Roman Catholic Church; is famed for his frescoes "Christ's Entry
into Jerusalem" and "St. Francis" in particular, still more than his oil-paintings; spent most
of his life in Rome (1789-1869).

OVERBURY, SIR THOMAS, English gentleman, remembered chiefly from the circumstances of his death,
having been poisoned in the Tower at the instance of Rochester and his wife for dissuading
the former from marrying the latter, for which crime the principals were pardoned and the instruments
suffered death; he was the author of certain works published after his death, and "The Wife,"
a poem, his "Characters," and "Crumbs from King James's Table" (1581-1613).

OVERLAND ROUTE, the route to Australia and the East across the European continent instead of
round the Cape of Good Hope, was inaugurated by Lieutenant Waghorn in 1845, modified on the
opening of the Suez Canal in 1869, and is now viâ France, the Mont Cenis tunnel, Brindisi,
the Levant, Suez Canal, Red Sea, and Indian Ocean.

OVERREACH, SIR GILES, a character in Massinger's play, "A New Way to Pay Old Debts."

OVERSTONE, BARON, English financier, represented Hythe; was made a peer in 1850; wrote on finances;
was opposed to limited liability and the introduction of the decimal system; died immensely
rich (1796-1883).

OVID (Publius Ovidius Naso), Roman poet of the Augustan age, born at Salmo, of equestrian rank,
bred for the bar, and serving the State in the department of law for a time, threw it up for
literature and a life of pleasure; was the author, among other works, of the "Amores," "Fasti,"
and the "Metamorphoses," the friend of Horace and Virgil, and the favourite of Augustus, but
for some unknown reason fell under the displeasure of the latter, and was banished in his fiftieth
year, to end his days among the swamps of Scythia, near the Black Sea (B.C. 43-18 A.D.).

OVIEDO (44), capital of the Spanish province of Asturias, near the river Nalon; is the seat
of a university, library, and cathedral; it is the centre of the chief coal-field of Spain;
in the neighbourhood are a gun-factory and many iron-works.

OWEN, JOHN, Puritan divine, born in Oxfordshire, educated at Oxford; driven from the Church,
became first a Presbyterian then an Independent; Cromwell made him chaplain for a sermon he
preached the day after Charles I.'s execution, and he was presented in 1651 with the deanery
of Christ Church, Oxford, and next year with the Vice-Chancellorship, but on the Restoration
was deprived of both, after which, from 1657, he spent his life in retirement; wrote an exposition
of the Epistle to the Hebrews, on the Holy Spirit, and many other works in exposition of the
Puritan theology, which at one time were held in greater favour than they are now (1616-1683).

OWEN, SIR RICHARD, celebrated English naturalist and comparative anatomist, born in Lancaster;
wrote extensively, especially on comparative anatomy and physiology, in which, as in everything
that occupied him, he was an enthusiastic worker, being a disciple of Cuvier; did not oppose,
but was careful not to commit himself to, Darwin's evolutionary theories; Carlyle, who had
two hours' talk with him once, found him "a man of real ability who could tell him innumerable
things" (1804-1892).

OWEN, ROBERT, a Socialist reformer, born in Montgomeryshire; became manager of a cotton mill
at New Lanark, which he managed on Socialist principles, according to which all the profits
in the business above five per cent, went to the workpeople; in furtherance of his principles
he published his "New Views of Society," the "New Moral World," as well as pamphlets, lecturing
upon them, moreover, both in England and America, but his schemes issued in practical failures,
especially as proving too exclusively secular, and he in his old age turned his mind to spiritualism
(1771-1858).

OWENS COLLEGE, Manchester, a non-sectarian university, founded by John Owens, a liberal Churchman,
in 1846, and supported as well as extended by subsequent bequests, the medical school of which
is one of the finest in the kingdom; of the students attending it in 1897-98, 639 were arts
students, 99 women, and 418 medicals.

OXENFORD, JOHN, English man of letters and critic; translated Goethe's "Dichtung und Wahrheit,"
and "Echermann's Conversations with Goethe"; was dramatic critic for the Times, and wrote plays,
as well as an "Illustrated Book of French Songs" (1812-1877).

OXENSTIERN, AXEL, COUNT, Swedish statesman, favourite minister of Gustavus Adolphus; supported
him through the Thirty Years' War, though he disapproved of his engaging in it, and managed
the affairs of the State with great ability after his death (1583-1654).

OXFORD (46), the county town of Oxfordshire, seat of one of the great English universities
and of a bishopric; is on the left bank of the Thames, 52 m. W. of London; it is a city of
great beauty, its many collegiate buildings and chapels and other institutions making it the
richest of English cities in architectural interest; naturally historical associations abound;
here the Mad Parliament met and adopted the Provisions of Oxford in 1258; Latimer and Ridley
in 1555, and Cranmer in 1556, were burned in Broad Street; Charles I. made it his head-quarters
after the first year of the Civil War; it was the refuge of Parliament during the plague of 1665.

OXFORD SCHOOL, the name given to the leaders of the Tractarian Movement, which originated at
Oxford in 1833.

OXFORD UNIVERSITY, Oxford is spoken of as a seat of learning as early as the 11th century.
Cloistral schools existed before that. Schools of divinity, law, and topography were founded
in the 12th century. In the 13th Dominican and Franciscan scholars raised it to a level only
second to Paris, and by the end of the 14th century there were thousands of students in attendance.
Oxford responded quickly to the Renaissance, and by the time of the Reformation 13 colleges
were founded. Her Protestantism stood firm through Mary's reaction, sank into passive obedience
under the Stuarts, but woke up to resist James II.'s Catholic propaganda. Thereafter followed
a serious lapse in efficiency, but this century has seen a complete revival. Oxford has now
21 colleges, among which are Balliol, Christ Church, Magdalen, Oriel, Trinity, and University
College; 64 professors and teachers, and 3000 students. It is rich in museums and libraries;
the Bodleian Library is of great value, the Taylor Library is devoted to modern literature.
The Oxford or Tractarian Movement, one of the most remarkable religious impulses of modern
times, had its centre in the University between 1834 and 1845. Among distinguished Oxford alumni
were Hooker, Jeremy Taylor, Wesley, Newman; Hobbes, Locke, Adam Smith; Johnson, Gibbon, Freeman,
Green; Chatham, Gladstone; Ruskin; Shelley, Keble, Arnold, and Clough. Of the colleges of which
the University consists, the University was founded in 1249, Balliol in 1269, Merton in 1264,
Exeter in 1314, Oriel in 1326, Queen's in 1340, New in 1379, Lincoln in 1427, All Souls' in
1437, Magdalen in 1468, Brasenose in 1509, Corpus in 1516, Christ Church in 1546, Trinity in
1554, St. John's in 1555, Jesus in 1571, Wadham in 1612, Pembroke in 1624, Worcester in 1714,
Keble in 1870, and Hertford in 1874.

OXFORDSHIRE (186), a S. midland county of England, stretching on the N. bank of the Thames
between Gloucester and Buckingham; is an agricultural district; bleak in the N. and W., it
is hilly, well wooded and picturesque in the S., where are the Chiltern Hills; iron-stone is
mined near Banbury, blankets made at Witney, and paper at Shiplake and Henley; natives of the
county were Edward the Confessor, Leland, Warren Hastings, Maria Edgeworth, and J. R. Green.

OXUS or AMU-DARIA, a great river of Central Asia, rises in the Pamirs, and flows W. between
Turkestan and Afghanistan, then N. through Turkestan to the Sea of Aral; it is believed at
one time to have flowed into the Caspian, and there is record of two changes of course; half
its waters are absorbed in irrigating the plains of Khiva.

OXYGEN, a colourless, inodorous gas which constitutes one-fifth in volume of the atmosphere,
and which, in combination with hydrogen, forms water. It is the most widely diffused of all
the elementary bodies, and an essential support to everything possessed of life.

OYER AND TERMINER, an English Court Commission to hear and determine special causes.

OZONE, is an allotropic form of oxygen, from which it can be developed by electricity, and
into which it can be resolved by heat, present in small quantities in the atmosphere, and possessing
strong oxidising properties.

P

PACHE, JEAN, Swiss adventurer, who became Mayor of Paris, and even Minister of War during the
French Revolution, "the sleek Tartuffe that he was," is credited with the authorship of the
famous revolutionary motto, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity, or Death (1746-1823).

PACHOMIUS, ST., an Egyptian hermit, the founder of conventual monachism, who established the
first institution of the kind at Tabenna, an island in the Nile; he also established the first
nunnery under his sister (292-348). Festival, May 14.

PACHYDERMATA, hoofed animals with thick skins and non-ruminant, such as the elephant and the hog.

PACIFIC OCEAN, the largest sheet of water on the globe, occupies a third of its whole surface,
as much as all the land put together. It is a wide oval in shape, lying between Australia and
Asia on the W., and North and South America on the E. Except from Asia it receives no large
rivers. On its American shores the Gulf of California is the only considerable indentation;
the Okhotsk, Japanese, Yellow, and Chinese Seas, on the Asiatic coast, are rather wide bays
shut in by islands than inland seas. Its innumerable islands are the chief feature of the Pacific
Ocean. The continental islands include the Aleutian, Kurile, Japan, and Philippine Islands,
and the archipelago between the Malay Peninsula and Australia; the Oceanic Islands include
countless groups, volcanic and coral, chiefly in the southern hemisphere, between the Sandwich
Islands and New Zealand. Commerce on the Pacific Ocean is only beginning, but will increase
vastly with the extension of the United States westward, the colonisation of Australia, and
the opening of Chinese and Japanese ports. San Francisco and Valparaiso on the E., Hong-Kong
and Sydney on the W., are just now the chief centres of trade.

PACKHARD, distinguished American entymologist and naturalist, born in Maine; his classification
of insects is accepted; b. 1839.

PACTOLUS, a small river of Lydia, famous for the gold contained in its sand, due, it was alleged,
to Midas washing the gold off him in its waters, and the alleged source of the wealth of Croesus;
its modern name is Sarabat. See MIDAS.

PACUVIUS, an old Latin dramatist, nephew of ENNIUS (q. v.); wrote dramas after the Greek models
(220-130 B.C.).

PADANG (15), a town and free port on the W. coast of Sumatra, the largest town on the island,
and the Dutch official capital.

PADEREWSKI, IGNACE JAN, a celebrated pianist, born at Podolia, in Russian Poland; master of
his art by incessant practice from early childhood, made his début in 1887 with instant success;
his first appearance created quite a furore in Paris and London; has twice visited the United
States; is a brilliant composer as well as performer, and has composed numerous pieces both
for the voice and the piano; b. 1860.

PADILLA, JUAN LOPEZ DE, a celebrated Castilian noble, who headed a rebellion against Charles
V., which he heroically maintained till his defeat at Villalos in 1521, and which his wife,
Donna Maria, no less heroically maintained against a strong besieging force after his capture
and execution.

PADISHAH, from two Persian words meaning "protector prince," is a title given to the Shah of
Persia and the Sultan of Turkey, and at one time applied, among others, to the Emperors of
Austria and Russia.

PADUA (79), a walled city of Venetia, 23 m. by rail W. of Venice, has some manufactures of
leather and musical-instrument strings, but is chiefly interesting for its artistic treasures;
these include the municipal buildings, cathedral, and nearly fifty churches, innumerable pictures
and frescoes, and Donatello's famous equestrian statue of Gattamelata; there is also a renowned
university, library, museum, and the oldest botanical garden in Europe; after very varied fortunes
it was held by Venice 1405-1797, then by Austria till its incorporation in Italy 1866. Livy
was a native, as also Andrea Mantegna.

PÆSTUM, an ancient Greek city of Lucania, in South Italy, with remains of Greek architecture
second only to those of Athens.

PAGAN, ISABEL, Scotch poetess, authoress of the plaintive song "Ca' the Yowes to the Knowes"
(1740-1821).

PAGANINI, NICOLO, a celebrated Italian violinist, born at Genoa of humble origin; widely famous
for his astonishing feats on a single-stringed instrument; was a composer of musical pieces
for both violin and guitar; died rich (1784-1840).

PAGANISM, HEATHENISM (q. v.), so called as lingering among the "pagani" or country people,
after Christianity had taken root in the large towns.

PAGODA, an Indian or Chinese temple, associated chiefly with Buddhism, of a more or less pyramidal
form and of several storeys, the most imposing being the Greek Pagoda of Tanjore; the name
is applied also to a gold coin worth 7s. 6d. stamped with a pagoda.

PAHLEVI, name given to a translation of the ZENDAVESTA (q. v.) in the Zend dialect for the
use of the priesthood.

PAINE, THOMAS, a notorious free-thinker and democrat, born in Thetford; emigrated to America,
contributed, as he boasted, by his pamphlet "Common Sense," to "free America," by rousing it
to emancipate itself from the mother-country; wrote the "Rights of Man" against Burke's "Reflections";
had to emigrate to France; took part in the Revolution to aid in its emancipation also, offended
Robespierre, and was put in prison, where he wrote the first part of his "Age of Reason," a
book which offended the Christian world and procured him ignominy and even execration in many
quarters; died in New York, but his bones were conveyed to England by Cobbett in 1819 (1737-1809).

PAINTER, WILLIAM, author of "Palace of Pleasure," a collection of tales chiefly from Italian
sources, which proved suggestive in furnishing the dramatists with interesting subjects for
representation (1540-1594).

PAISIELLO, GIOVANNI, an Italian composer, born at Taranto; his great work, the opera "Il Barbiere
di Seviglia"; composed besides other operas, cantatas, requiems, &c.

PAISLEY (66), a Renfrewshire town, 7 m. W. of Glasgow, on the White Cart. It is the chief centre
of manufacture of cotton thread in the world, and its other industries include dyeing, bleaching,
woollen goods, and engineering. There are several fine buildings, a Baptist Church is said
to be the finest modern ecclesiastical building in Scotland. The ornithologist Wilson, Professor
Wilson ( Christopher North), and Tannahill were born here.

PALACKY, FRANCIS, distinguished Bohemian historian and politician, born in Moravia, author
of a "History of Bohemia," in 5 vols., his chief work and a notable (1798-1876).

PALADIN, the name given to the peers of Charlemagne, such as Roland, and also to knights-errant
generally.

PALÆOGRAPHY, the name given to the study and the deciphering of ancient manuscripts.

PALÆOLOGUS, the name of a Byzantine family, several members of which attained imperial dignity,
the last of the dynasty dying in 1453; they came into prominence in the 11th century.

PALÆONTOLOGY, the name given to the study of fossil remains, a branch of geology.

PALAFOX, DON JOSEPH, a Spanish soldier, born of a noble Aragonese family, who immortalised
himself by his heroic defence of Saragossa against the French in 1808-9; on the fall of the
place was taken to France and imprisoned till 1813; on his release was created Duke of Saragossa
and promoted to other high honours at home (1780-1847).

PALAIS ROYAL, a pile of buildings in Paris, of which the nucleus was a palace built in 1629
by Lemercier for Richelieu, and known afterwards as the Palais Cardinal, and which at length
by gift of Louis XIV. became the town residence of the Orleans family; these buildings suffered
much damage in 1848 and in 1871, but have been restored since 1873.

PALAMEDES, one of the chiefs of the Greeks at the siege of Troy, a man of inventive genius;
discovered the assumed madness of Ulysses, but incurred his resentment in consequence, which
procured his death.

PALANQUIN, in India and China a covered conveyance for one person borne on the shoulders of men.

PALATINATE, the name of two States, originally one, of the old German empire, one called the
Lower Palatinate or the Palatinate of the Rhine, partitioned in 1815 among the States of Baden,
Bavaria, Prussia, and Hesse-Darmstadt, and the other called the Upper Palatinate, now nearly
all included in Bavaria; the former has for principal towns Spires and Landau, and the latter
Ratisbon.

PALATINE, one of the seven hills of ancient Rome, and, according to tradition, the first to
be occupied, and forming the nucleus of the city; it became one of the most aristocratic quarters
of the city, and was chosen by the first emperors for their imperial residence.

PALATINE COUNT, a judicial functionary of high rank under the early Frankish kings over what
was called a palatinate.

PALATINE COUNTIES, certain frontier counties in England, such as Chester, Durham, and Lancaster,
which possess royal privileges and rights.

PALE, THE, that part of Ireland in which after the invasion of 1172 the supremacy of English
rule and law was acknowledged, the limits of which differed at different times, but which generally
included all the eastern counties extending 40 or 50 m. inland.

PALENQUE, a town in the State of Chiapas, Mexico, discovered in 1760, buried under a dense
forest with extensive structures in ruins.

PALERMO (273), capital of Sicily, picturesquely situated in the midst of a beautiful and fertile
valley called the Golden Shell; is a handsome town, with many public buildings and nearly 300
churches in Moorish and Byzantine architecture, a university, art school, museum, and libraries;
industries are unimportant, but a busy trade is done with Britain, France, and the United States,
exporting fruits, wine, sulphur, &c., and importing textiles, coals, machinery, and grain.

PALES, in Roman mythology the tutelary deity of shepherds and their flocks, the worship of
whom was attended with numerous observances, as in the case of the nature divinities generally.

PALESTINE, or the HOLY LAND, a small territory on the SE. corner of the Mediterranean, about
the size of Wales, being 140 m. from N. to S., and an average of 70 m. from E. to W., is bounded
on the N. by Lebanon, on the E. by the Jordan Valley, on the S. by the Sinaitic Desert, and
on the W. by the sea; there is great diversity of climate throughout its extent owing to the
great diversity of level, and its flora and fauna are of corresponding range; it suffered much
during the wars between the Eastern monarchies and Egypt, and in the wars between the Crescent
and the Cross, and is now by a strange fate in the hands of the Turk; it has in recent times
been the theatre of extensive exploring operations in the interest of its early history.

PALESTRINA, an Italian town, 22 m. SE. of Rome, on a slope of the Apennines, 2546 ft. above
sea-level, on the site of the ancient Præneste, with the remains of Cyclopean walls, with a
palace of the BARBERINI (q. v.).

PALESTRINA, GIOVANNI PIERLUIGI DE, celebrated composer of sacred music, surnamed the Prince
of Music, born at Palestrina; resided chiefly at Rome, where he wrought a revolution in church
music, produced a number of masses which at once raised him to the foremost rank among composers;
was the author of a well-known Stabat Mater (1524-1594).

PALEY, FREDERICK ALTHORP, classical scholar, grandson of the succeeding, born near York; became
a Roman Catholic, contributed to classical literature by his editions of the classics of both
Greece and Rome, remarkable alike for their scholarship and the critical acumen they show (1816-1886).

PALEY, WILLIAM, "one of the most masculine and truly English of thinkers and writers," born
at Peterborough; studied at Christ's College, Cambridge, where he was Senior Wrangler, and
obtained a Fellowship, held afterwards various Church preferments, and died archdeacon of Carlisle;
was a clear writer and cogent reasoner on common-sense lines, and was long famous, if less
so now, as the author of "Horæ Paulinæ," "Evidences of Christianity," and "Natural Theology,"
as well as "Moral and Political Philosophy"; they are genuine products of the time they were
written in, but are out of date now (1743-1806).

PALGRAVE, SIR FRANCIS, historian, born in London, of Jewish parents of the name of Cohen; was
called to the bar in 1827, and became Deputy-Keeper of Her Majesty's Records in 1838; was the
author of a history of the "Rise and Progress of the English Commonwealth" and of a "History
of England," tracing it back chiefly to the Anglo-Norman period, among other works (1788-1861).

PALGRAVE, FRANCIS TURNER, poet, son of preceding, born in London, professor of Poetry at Oxford,
editor of "Golden Treasury of Songs and Lyrics," as well as author of lyrics, rhymes, &c.; b. 1824.

PALGRAVE, WILLIAM GIFFORD, Arabic scholar, born at Westminster, brother of preceding; after
a brief term of service in the army joined the Society of Jesus, and served as a member of
the order in India, Rome, and in Syria, where he acquired an intimate knowledge of Arabic,
by means of which he contributed to our knowledge of both the Arabic language and the Arab
race; wrote a narrative of a year's journey through Arabia (1826-1888).

PÂLI, the sacred language of the Buddhists, once a living language, but, like Sanskrit, no
longer spoken.

PALIMPSEST, the name given to a parchment manuscript written on the top of another that has
been erased, yet often not so thoroughly that it cannot be in a measure restored.

PALINGENESIA, name equivalent to "new birth," and applied both to regeneration and restoration,
of which baptism in the former case is the symbol; in the Stoic philosophy it is preceded by
dissolution, as in the rejuvenescence process of MEDEA (q. v.).

PALINURUS, the pilot of one of the ships of Æneas, who, sleeping at his post, fell into the
sea, and was drowned.

PALISSY, BERNARD, the great French potter and inventor of a new process in the potter's art,
born in Périgord, of humble parentage; celebrated for his fine earthenware vases ornamented
with figures artistically modelled, but above all for his untiring zeal and patience in the
study of his art and mastery in it, making fuel of his very furniture and the beams of his
house in the conduct of his experiments; he was a Huguenot, but was specially exempted, by
order of Catherine de' Medici, from the massacre of St. Bartholomew in 1672, although he was
in 1585, as a Huguenot, imprisoned in the Bastille, where he died (1510-1590).

PALK'S STRAIT, the channel which separates Ceylon from the mainland of India, 100 m. long and
40 m. wide, generally shallow. See ADAM'S BRIDGE.

PALLADIO, ANDREA, an Italian architect, born at Vicenza, of poor parents; was precursor of
the modern Italian style of architecture, and author of a treatise on architecture that has
borne fruit; his works, which are masterpieces of the Renaissance, consist principally of palaces
and churches, and the finest specimens are to be met with in Venice and in his native place
(1518-1580).

PALLADIUM, a statue of Pallas in Troy, on the preservation of which depended the safety of
the city, and from the date of the abstraction of which by Ulysses and Diomedes the fate of
it was doomed; it was fabled to have fallen from heaven upon the plain of Troy, and to have
after its abstraction been transferred to Athens and Argos; it is now applied to any safeguard
of the liberty of a State.

PALLADIUS, ST., is called the "chief apostle of the Scottish nation," but his connection with
Scotland during his lifetime is doubtful; he was sent to Ireland by Pope Celestine in A.D.
430, whence, after his death, his remains were brought by St. Ternan to Fordoun, Kincardineshire.

PALLAS, one of the names of ATHENA (q. v.) considered as the goddess of war; a name of uncertain
derivation.

PALLAS, PETER SIMON, a German traveller and naturalist, born in Berlin, professor of Natural
History in St. Petersburg; explored Siberia, and contributed to the geographical knowledge
of the Russian empire (1741-1811).

PALLAVICINO, FERRANTE, Italian patriot, who gave offence by his pasquinades to the Papal Court
and the Barberini; was betrayed and beheaded (1618-1644).

PALLAVICINO, SFORZA, cardinal and historian, born at Rome; was of the Jesuit order, and wrote
a "History of the Council of Trent," in correction of the work of Paul Sarpi (1607-1667).

PALLICE, LA, port of La Rochelle, from which it is 3 m. distant, with harbourage for ocean-going
steamers. (1768-1806).

PALM SUNDAY, the Sunday before Easter, is so called from its being commemorative of Christ's
triumphal entry into Jerusalem; it is observed by the Greek and Roman Churches; in the latter
palm branches are blessed by the priest before mass, carried in procession, distributed to
the congregation, carried home by them, and kept throughout the year.

PALMA, 1, capital of the Balearic Islands (61), on the Bay of Palma, SW. coast of Majorca;
has a Gothic cathedral, a Moorish palace, and a collection of pictures in the old Town Hall;
manufactures silks, woollens, and jewellery, and does a busy trade. 2, One of the Canary Islands
(39), 67 m. NW. of Teneriffe; grows sugar, and exports honey, wax, and silk manufactures.

PALMA, JACOPO, or The Old, a celebrated painter of the Venetian school, was a pupil of Titian;
painted sacred subjects and portraits, all much esteemed (1480-1548).

PALMA, JACOPO, The Young, nephew of the preceding, also a painter, but of inferior merit, though
he aimed to be the rival of Tintoretto and Paul Veronese (1544-1628).

PALMER, the name given to a pilgrim to the Holy Land who had performed his vow, in sign of
which he usually bore a palm branch in his hand, which he offered on the altar on his return home.

PALMER, EDWARD HENRY, Oriental scholar, born at Cambridge; had an aptitude for languages, and
was especially proficient in those of the East; by his knowledge of Arabic contributed to the
success of exploring expeditions to S. Palestine and Sinai; was appointed professor of Arabic
at Cambridge in 1871; produced a Persian-English Dictionary, an Arabic Grammar, and a translation
of the Korân, and in 1882 undertook two missions to Egypt, in the latter of which he and his
party were betrayed and murdered; he was a man of varied gifts and accomplishments, and the
loss in scholarship to his country by his fate is incalculable (1840-1882).

PALMER, SAMUEL, English landscape-painter, chiefly in water-colours (1805-1881).

PALMERSTON, HENRY JOHN TEMPLE, VISCOUNT, English statesman, born, of an Irish family, at Broadlands,
Hants; was educated at the universities of Edinburgh and Cambridge; succeeded to his father's
title, an Irish peerage, in 1802, and entered Parliament in 1807 as member for Newport, Isle
of Wight; during his long career he subsequently represented Cambridge University (1811-1831),
Bletchingly, South Hampshire, and Tiverton; from 1809 to 1828 under five Premiers he was Junior
Lord of the Admiralty and Secretary at War; and separating himself finally from the Tory party,
he joined Earl Grey's Cabinet as Foreign Secretary in 1830; contrary to all expectation he
kept the country out of war, and during the next 11 years he associated England's influence
with that of France in Continental affairs; returning to office in 1846, he remained at his
old post till 1851, steering England skilfully through the Spanish troubles and the revolutionary
reaction of 1848; a vote of censure on his policy was carried in the Lords in 1850, but, after
a five hours' speech from him, the Commons recorded their approval; he resigned owing to differences
with the Premier, Lord John Russell; in 1852 joined Lord Aberdeen's coalition ministry, and
on its fall became himself Prime Minister in 1855; he prosecuted the Crimean War and the Chinese
War of 1857, and suppressed the Great Mutiny in India; defeated in 1858, he returned to office
next year with a cabinet of Whigs and Peelites; his second administration furthered the cause
of free trade, but made the mistake of allowing the Alabama to leave Birkenhead; he was Prime
Minister when he died; a brusque, high-spirited, cheery man, sensible and practical, unpretending
as an orator, but a skilful debater, he was a great favourite with the country, whose prosperity
and prestige it was his chief desire to promote (1784-1865).

PALMISTRY, the art of reading character from the lines and marks on the palm of the hand, according
to which some pretend to read fortunes as well.

PALMY`RA, a ruined city of Asia Minor, 150 m. NE. of Damascus, once situated in an oasis near
the Arabian desert; a place of importance, and said to have been founded by Solomon for commercial
purposes; of imposing magnificence as it ruins testify, as notably under Zenobia; it was taken
by the Romans in 272, and destroyed by Aurelian, after which it gradually fell into utter decay;
its ruins were discovered in 1678; it contains the ruins of a temple to Baal, 60 of the 300
columns of which were still standing.

PALO ALTO, 33 m. SE. of San Francisco; is the seat of a remarkable university founded by Senator
Stanford, and opened in 1891, to provide instruction, from the Kindergarten stage to the most
advanced and varied, to students and pupils boarded on the premises; of these there were 1000
in 1897.

PALUDAN-MÜLLER, FREDERICK, distinguished Danish poet, born in Fünen; his greatest poem, "Adam
Homo," a didactico-humorous composition; was an earnest man and a finished literary artist
(1809-1876).

PAMELA, a novel of Richardson's, from the name of the heroine, a girl of low degree, who resists
temptation and reclaims her would-be seducer.

PAMIRS, THE, or the "Roof of the World," a plateau traversed by mountain ridges and valleys,
of the average height of 13,000 ft., NW. of the plateau of Thibet, connecting the mountain
system of the Himalayas, Tian-Shan, and the Hindu Kush, and inhabited chiefly by nomad Kirghiz
bands; territorial apportionments have for some time past been in the hands of Russian and
British diplomatists.

PAMPAS, vast grassy, treeless, nearly level plains in South America, in the Argentine State;
they stretch from the lower Paraná to the S. of Buenos Ayres; afford rich pasture for large
herds of wild horses and cattle, and are now in certain parts being brought under tillage.

PAMPELUNA or PAMPLONA (31), a fortified city of Northern Spain, is 80 m. due SE. of Bilbao.
It has a Gothic cathedral and a surgical college, with manufactures of pottery and leather,
and a trade in wine. Formerly capital of Navarre, it has suffered much in war; has this century
several times resisted the Carlists.

PAN, in the Greek mythology a goat-man, a personification of rude nature, and the protector
of flocks and herds; originally an Arcadian deity, is represented as playing on a flute of
reeds joined together of different lengths, called Pan's pipes; and dancing on his cloven hoofs
over glades and mountains escorted by a bevy of nymphs side by side, and playing on his pipes.
There is a remarkable tradition, that on the night of the Nativity at Bethlehem an astonished
voyager heard a voice exclaiming as he passed the promontory of Tarentum, "The great Pan is
dead." The modern devil is invested with some of his attributes, such as cloven hoofs, &c.

PANAMA (15), a free port in the State of Colombia, on the Pacific coast of the isthmus of the
same name, and an oppressively hot and humid place, is the terminus of the Panama railroad
and the seat of a great transit trade. It has a Spanish cathedral. The population, of Indian
and negro descent chiefly, is only half what it was when the canal works were in full operation.

PANAMA CANAL Geographers were familiar with the idea of connecting the two oceans by a canal
through Central America as early as the beginning of the 16th century, and Dutch plans are
said to exist dating from the 17th century. The first practical steps were taken by Ferdinand
de Lesseps in 1879; two years later work was begun; the cost was estimated at £24,000,000,
but on January 1, 1889, the company was forced into liquidation after spending over £70,000,000,
and accomplishing but a fifth of the work. Extravagance and incapacity were alleged among the
causes of failure; but the apparently insurmountable difficulties were marshes, quicksands,
and the overflow of the Chagres River, the prevalence of earthquakes, the length of the rainy
season, the cost of labour and living, and the extreme unhealthiness of the climate.

PANATHENÆA, a festival, or rather two festivals, the Lesser and the Greater, anciently celebrated
at Athens in honour of Athena, the patron-goddess of the city.

PANCHATANTRA, an old collection of fables and stories originally in Sanskrit, and versions
of which have passed into all the languages of India, have appeared in different forms, and
been associated with different names.

PANCRAS, ST., a boy martyr of 16, who suffered under the Diocletian persecution about 304,
and is variously represented in mediæval legend as bearing a stone and sword, or a palm branch,
and trampling a Saracen under foot, in allusion to his hatred of heathenism.

PANDECTS, the digest of civil law executed at the instance of the Emperor Justinian between
the years 530 and 533.

PANDORA (i. e. the All-Gifted) in the Greek mythology a woman of surpassing beauty, fashioned
by Hephæstos, and endowed with every gift and all graces by Athena, sent by Zeus to EPIMETHEUS
(q. v.) to avenge the wrong done to the gods by his brother Prometheus, bearing with her a
box full of all forms of evil, which Epimetheus, though cautioned by his brother, pried into
when she left, to the escape of the contents all over the earth in winged flight, Hope alone
remaining behind in the casket.

PANDOURS, a name given to a body of light-infantry at one time in the Austrian service, levied
among the Slavs on the Turkish frontier, and now incorporated as a division of the regular army.

PANDULF, CARDINAL, was the Pope's legate to King John of England, and to whom, on his submission,
John paid homage at Dover; d. 1226.

PANGE LINGUA, a hymn in the Roman Breviary, service of Corpus Christi, part of which is incorporated
in every Eucharistic service; was written in rhymed Latin by Thomas Aquinas.

PÁNINI, a celebrated Sanskrit grammarian, whose work is of standard authority among Hindu scholars,
and who lived some time between 600 and 300 B.C.

PANIPAT (29), a town in the Punjab, 53 m. N. of Delhi; was the scene of two decisive battles,
one in 1526 to the establishment of the Mogul dynasty at Delhi, and another in 1701 to the
extinction of the Mahratta supremacy in North-West India.

PANIZZI, ANTONIO, principal librarian of the British Museum from 1850 to 1866, born at Modena;
took refuge in England in 1821 as implicated in a Piedmontese revolutionary movement that year;
procured the favour of Lord Brougham and a post in the Museum, in which he rose to be one of
the chiefs (1797-1879).

PANNONIA, a province of the Roman empire, conquered between 35 B.C. and A.D. 8; occupied a
square with the Danube on the N. and E. and the Save almost on the S. border; it passed to
the Eastern Empire in the 5th century, fell under Charlemagne's sway, and was conquered by
the modern Hungarians shortly before A.D. 1000.

PANOPTICON, a prison so arranged that the warder can see every prisoner in charge without being
seen by them.

PANSLAVISM, the name given to a movement for union of all the Slavonic races in one nationality,
a project which lags heavily owing to the jealousy on the part of one section or another.

PANTAGRUEL, the principal character of one of the two great works of Rabelais, and named after
him; he and his father Gargantua figured as two enormous giants, being personifications of
royalty with its insatiable lust of territory and power.

PANTHEISM, the doctrine or creed which affirms the immanency of God in nature, or that God
is within nature, but ignores or denies His transcendency, or that He is above nature; distinguished
from deism, which denies the former but affirms the latter, from theism, which affirms both,
and from atheism, which denies both.

PANTHEON, a temple in Rome, first erected by Agrippa, son-in-law of Augustus, circular in form,
150 ft. in height, with niches all round for statues of the gods, to whom in general it was
dedicated; it is now a church, and affords sepulture to illustrious men. Also a building in
Paris, originally intended to be a church in honour of the patron saint of Paris, but at the
time of the Revolution converted into a receptacle for the ashes of the illustrious dead, Mirabeau
being its first occupant, and bearing this inscription, Aux grands hommes la patrie reconnaissant;
it was subsequently appropriated to other uses, but under the third republic it became again
a resting-place for the ashes of eminent men.

PANTOGRAPH, the name given to a contrivance for copying a drawing or a design on an enlarged
or a reduced scale.

PANURGE, one of the principal characters in the "Pantagruel" of Rabelais, an exceedingly crafty
knave, a libertine, and a coward.

PANZA, SANCHO, Don Quixote's squire, a squat, paunchy peasant endowed with rude common-sense,
but incapable of imagination.

PAOLI, PASQUALE DE, a Corsican patriot; sought to achieve the independence of his country,
but was defeated by the Genoese, aided by France, in 1769; took refuge in England, where he
was well received and granted a pension; returned to Corsica and became lieutenant-general
under the French republic, raised a fresh insurrection, had George III. proclaimed king, but
failed to receive the viceroyalty, and returned to England, where he died a disappointed man
(1726-1807).

PAPAL STATES, a territory in the N. of Italy extending irregularly from Naples to the Po, at
one time subject to the temporal sovereignty of the Pope, originating in a gift to his Holiness
of Pepin the Short, and taking shape as such about the 11th century, till in the 16th and 17th
centuries the papal power began to assert itself in the general politics of Europe, and after
being suppressed for a time by Napoleon it was formally abolished by annexation of the territory
to the crown of Sardinia in 1870.

PAPHOS, the name of two ancient cities in the SW. of Cyprus; the older (now Kyklia) was a Phoenician
settlement, in which afterwards stood a temple of Venus, who was fabled to have sprung from
the sea-foam close by; the other, 8 m. westward, was the scene of Paul's interview with Sergius
Paulus and encounter with Elymas.

PAPIAS, bishop of Hierapolis, in Phrygia, who flourished in the middle of the 2nd century,
and wrote a book entitled "Exposition of the Lord's Sayings," fragments of which have been
preserved by Eusebius and others; he was, it is said, the companion of Polycarp.

PAPIER-MÂCHE is a light, durable substance made from paper pulp or sheets of paper pasted together
and variously treated with chemicals, heat, and pressure, largely used for ornamental trays,
boxes, light furniture, &c., in which it is varnished and decorated to resemble lacquer-work,
and for architectural decoration, in which it is made to imitate plaster moulding; the manufacture
was learned from the Eastern nations. Persia, India, and Japan having been long familiar with
it; America has adapted it to use for railroad wheels, &c.

PAPIN, DENIS, French physicist, born at Blois, practised medicine at Angers; came to England
and assisted Boyle in his experiments, made a special study of the expansive power of steam
and its motive power, invented a steam-digester with a safety-valve, since called after him,
for cooking purposes at a high temperature; became professor of Mathematics at Marburg (1647-1712).

PAPINIANUS, ÆMILIUS, a celebrated Roman jurist; was put to death by Caracalla for refusing,
it is said, when requested, to vindicate his conduct in murdering his brother (142-212).

PAPIRIUS, a Roman pontiff to whom is ascribed a collection of laws constituting the Roman code
under the kings.

PAPPENHEIM, COUNT VON, imperial general, born in Bavaria; played a prominent part in the Thirty
Years' War; was distinguished for his zeal as well as his successes on the Catholic side; was
mortally wounded at Lützen, expressed his gratitude to God when he learned that Gustavas Adolphus,
who fell in the same battle, had died before him (1594-1632).

PAPPUS OF ALEXANDRIA, a Greek geometer of the third or fourth century, author of "Mathematical
Collections," in eight books, of which the first and second have been lost.

PAPUANS, the name of the members of the negro race inhabiting certain islands of Oceania, including
New Guinea, New Hebrides, New Caledonia, Fiji Islands, &c.

PAPY`RUS, the Greek name of the Egyptian papu, is a kind of sedge growing 10 ft. high, with
a soft triangular stem, the pith of which is easily split into ribbons, found still in Egypt,
Nubia, Abyssinia, &c.; the pith ribbons were the paper of the ancient Egyptians, of the Greeks
after Alexander, and of the later Romans; they were used by the Arabs of the 8th century, and
in Europe till the 12th; at first long strips were rolled up, but later rectangular pages were
cut and bound together book fashion; though age has rendered the soft white pages brown and
brittle, much ancient literature is still preserved on papyrus; the use of papyrus was superseded
by that of parchment and rag-made paper.

PARÁ (40), a Brazilian port at the mouth of the Guama, on the E. shore of the Pará estuary,
is a compact, regularly-built, thriving town, with whitewashed buildings, blue and white tiled
roofs, tree-shaded streets, tram-cars, telephones, theatre, and cathedral; it is the emporium
of the Amazon trade, exporting india-rubber and cacao, and sending foreign goods into the interior;
though hot, it is healthy.

PARABLE, a short allegorical narrative intended to illustrate and convey some spiritual instruction.

PARABOLA, a conic section formed by the intersection of a cone by a plane parallel to one of
its sides.

PARACELSUS, a Swiss physician, alchemist, and mystic, whose real name was Theophrastus Bombastus,
born at Einsiedeln, in Schwyz; was a violent revolutionary in the medical art, and provoked
much hostility, so that he was driven to lead a wandering and unsettled life; notwithstanding,
he contributed not a little, by his knowledge and practice, to inaugurate a more scientific
study of nature than till his time prevailed (1493-1541).

PARAFFIN, name given by Baron Reichenbach to a transparent crystalline substance obtained by
distillation from wood, bituminous coal, shale, &c., and so called because it resists the action
of the strongest acids and alkalies.

PARAGUAY (400), except Uruguay the smallest State in South America, is an inland Republic whose
territories lie in the fork between the Pilcomayo and Paraguay and the Paraná Rivers, with
Argentina on the W. and S., Bolivia on the N., and Brazil on the N. and E.; it is less than
half the size of Spain, consists of rich undulating plains, and, in the S., of some of the
most fertile land on the continent; the climate is temperate for the latitude; the population,
Spanish, Indian, and half-caste, is Roman Catholic; education is free and compulsory; the country
is rich in natural products, but without minerals; timber, dye-woods, rubber, Paraguay tea
(a kind of holly), gums, fruits, wax, honey, cochineal, and many medicinal herbs are gathered
for export; maize, rice, cotton, and tobacco are cultivated; the industries include some tanning,
brick-works, and lace-making; founded by Spain in 1535, Paraguay was the scene of an interesting
experiment in the 17th century, when the country was governed wholly by the Jesuits, who, excluding
all European settlers, built up a fabric of Christian civilisation; they were expelled in 1768;
in 1810 the country joined the revolt against Spain, and was the first to establish its independence;
for 26 years it was under the government of Dr. Francia; from 1865 to 1870 it maintained a
heroic but disastrous war against the Argentine, Brazil, and Uruguay, as a consequence of which
the population fell from a million and a half to a quarter of a million; it is again prosperous
and progressing. The capital is Asunçion (18), at the confluence of the Pilcomayo and Paraguay.

PARAGUAY RIVER, a South American river 1800 m. long, the chief tributary of the Paraná, rises
in some lakes near Matto Grosso, Brazil, and flows southward through marshy country till it
forms the boundary between Brazil and Bolivia, then traversing Paraguay, it becomes the boundary
between that State and the Argentine Republic, and finally enters the Paraná above Corrientes;
it receives many affluents, and is navigable by ocean steamers almost to its source.

PARAKLETE, the Holy Spirit which Christ promised to His disciples would take His place as their
teacher and guide after He left them. Also the name of the monastery founded by Abelard near
Nogent-sur-Seine, and of which HELOÏSE (q. v.) was abbess.

PARALLAX, an astronomical term to denote an apparent change in the position of a heavenly body
due to a change in the position or assumed position of the observer.

PARAMAR`IBO (24), the capital of Dutch Guiana, on the Surinam, 10 m. from the sea, and the
centre of the trade of the colony.

PARAMO, the name given to an elevated track of desert on the Andes.

PARANÁ RIVER, a great river of South America, formed by the confluence of the Rio Grande and
the Paranahyba, in SE. Brazil, flows SW. through Brazil and round the SE. border of Paraguay,
then receiving the Paraguay River, turns S. through the Argentine, then E. till the junction
of the Uruguay forms the estuary of the Plate. The river is broad and rapid, 2000 m. long,
more than half of it navigable from the sea; at the confluence of the Yguassu it enters a narrow
gorge, and for 100 m. forms one of the most remarkable rapids in the world; the chief towns
on its banks are in the Argentine, viz. Corrientes, Santa Fé, and Rosario.

PARCÆ, the Roman name of the THREE FATES (q. v.), derived from "pars," a part, as apportioning
to every individual his destiny.

PARCHMENT consists of skins specially prepared for writing on, and is so called from a king
of Pergamos, who introduced it when the export of papyrus from Egypt was stopped; the skins
used are of sheep, for fine parchment or vellum, of calves, goats, and lambs; parchment for
drumheads is made from calves' and asses' skins.

PARCS-AUX-CERFS, the French name for clearings to provide hunting fields for the French aristocracy
prior to the Revolution.

PARÉ, AMBROISE, great French surgeon, born at Laval; was from the improved methods he introduced
in the treatment of surgical cases entitled to be called, as he has been, the father of modern
surgery, for his success as an operator, in particular the tying of divided arteries and the
treatment of gunshot wounds; he was in the habit of saying of any patient he had successfully
operated upon, "I cared for him; God healed him"; his writings exercised a beneficent influence
on the treatment of surgical cases in all lands (1517-1590).

PARIAH, a Hindu of the lowest class, and of no caste; of the class they are of various grades,
but all are outcast, and treated as such.

PARIS (2,448), the capital of France, in the centre of the northern half of the country, on
both banks of the Seine, and on two islands (La Cité and St. Louis) in the middle, 110 m. from
the sea; is the largest city on the Continent, and one of the most beautiful in the world.
No city has finer or gayer streets, or so many noble buildings. The Hôtel de Cluny and the
Hôtel de Sens are rare specimens of 15th-century civic architecture. The Palace of the Tuileries,
on the right bank of the Seine, dates from the 16th century, and was the royal residence till
the Revolution. Connected with it is the Louvre, a series of galleries of painting, sculpture,
and antiquities, whose contents form one of the richest collections existing, and include the
peerless "Venus de Milo." The Palais Royal encloses a large public garden, and consists of
shops, restaurants, the Théâtre Français, and the Royal Palace of the Orleans family. South
of the river is the Luxembourg, where the Senate meets, and on the Ile de la Cité stands the
Palais de Justice and the Conciergerie, one of the oldest Paris prisons. St.-Germain-des-Prés
is the most ancient church, but the most important is the cathedral of Notre Dame, 12th century,
which might tell the whole history of France could it speak. Saint-Chapelle is said to be the
finest Gothic masterpiece extant. The Pantheon, originally meant for a church, is the burial-place
of the great men of the country, where lie the remains of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Carnot. The
oldest hospitals are the Hôtel Dieu, La Charité, and La Pitié. The University Schools in the
Quartier Latin attract the youth of all France; the chief are the Schools of Medicine and Law,
the Scotch College, the College of France, and the Sorbonne, the seat of the faculties of letters,
science, and Protestant theology. Triumphal arches are prominent in the city. There are many
museums and charitable institutions; the Bibliothèque Nationale, in the Rue Richelieu, rivals
the British Museum in numbers of books and manuscripts. The Palace of Industry and the Eiffel
Tower commemorate the exhibitions of 1854 and 1889 respectively. Great market-places stand
in various parts of the city. The Rue de Rivoli, Rue de la Paix, Rue du Faubourg St.-Honoré,
and the Rue Royale are among the chief streets; beautiful squares are numerous, the most noted
being the Place de la Concorde, between the Champs Elysées and the Gardens of the Tuileries,
in the centre of which the Obelisk of Luxor stands on the site of the guillotine at which Louis
XVI. and Marie Antoinette, Philippe Egalité, Danton, and Robespierre died. Boulevards lined
with trees run to the outskirts of the city. The many roads, railways, canals, and rivers which
converge on Paris have made it the most important trading centre in France, and the concourse
of wealthy men of all nations has given it a high place in the financial world. It is a manufacturing
city, producing jewellery, ornamental furniture, and all sorts of artistic "articles de Paris."
The centre of French, and indeed European, fashion, it is noted for its pleasure and gaiety.
The concentration of Government makes it the abode of countless officials. It is strongly fortified,
being surrounded by a ring of forts, and a wall 22 m. long, at the 56 gates of which the octroi
dues are levied. The Préfect of the Seine, appointed by the Government, and advised by a large
council, is the head of the municipality, of the police and fire brigades, cleansing, draining,
and water-supply departments. The history of Paris is the history of France, for the national
life has been, and is, in an extraordinary degree centred in the capital. It was the scene
of the great tragic drama of the Revolution, and of the minor struggles of 1830 and 1849. In
recent times its great humiliation was its siege and capture by the Germans in 1870-71.

PARIS, the second son of Priam and Hecuba; was exposed on Mount Ida at his birth; brought up
by a shepherd; distinguished himself by his prowess, by which his parentage was revealed; married
OENONË (q. v.); appealed to to decide to whom the "apple of discord" belonged, gave it to Aphrodité
in preference to her two rivals Hera and Athena; was promised in return that he should receive
the most beautiful woman in the world to wife, Helen of Sparta, whom he carried off to Greece,
and which led to the TROJAN WAR (q. v.); slew Achilles, and was mortally wounded by the poisoned
arrows of Hercules.

PARIS, MATTHEW, English chronicler; a Benedictine monk of St. Albans; author of "Chronica Majora,"
which contains a history written in Latin of England from the Conquest to the year in which
he died (1195-1259).

PARK, MUNGO, African traveller, born at Foulshiels, near Selkirk; was apprenticed to a surgeon,
and studied medicine at Edinburgh; 1791-93 he spent in a voyage to Sumatra, and in 1795 went
for the first time to Africa under the auspices of the African Association of London; starting
from the Gambia he penetrated eastward to the Niger, then westward to Kamalia, where illness
seized him; conveyed to his starting-point by a slave-trader, he returned to England and published
"Travels in the Interior of Africa," 1799; he married and settled to practice at Peebles, but
he was not happy till in 1805 he set out for Africa again at Government expense; starting from
Pisania he reached the Niger, and sending back his journals attempted to descend the river
in a canoe, but, attacked by natives, the canoe overturned; and he and his companions were
drowned (1771-1805).

PARKER, JOHN HENRY, archæologist and writer on architecture; originally a London publisher,
his chief work the "Archæology of Rome," in nine vols., a subject to which he devoted much
study (1800-1884).

PARKER, JOSEPH, an eminent Nonconformist divine, born in Hexham; minister of the City Temple;
a vigorous and popular preacher, and the author of numerous works bearing upon biblical theology
and the defence of it; his magnum opus is the "People's Bible," of which 25 vols. are already
complete; b. 1830.

PARKER, MATTHEW, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Norwich; was a Fellow of Cambridge; embraced
the Protestant doctrines; became Master of Corpus Christi College, Oxford; was chaplain to
Anne Boleyn, and made Dean of Ely by Edward VI.; was deprived of his offices under Mary, but
made Primate under Elizabeth, and the Bishop's Bible was translated and issued under his auspices
(1504-1575).

PARKER, THEODORE, an American preacher and lecturer; adopted and professed the Unitarian creed,
but discarded it, like Emerson, for a still more liberal; distinguished himself in the propagation
of it by his lectures as well as his writings; was a vigorous anti-slavery agitator, and in
general a champion of freedom; died at Florence while on a tour for his health (1810-1860).

PARKMAN, FRANCIS, American historian, born in Boston; his writings valuable, particularly in
their bearing on the dominion of the French in America, its rise, decline, and fall (1823-1893).

PARLEMENT, the name given to the local courts of justice in France prior to the Revolution,
in which the edicts of the king required to be registered before they became laws; given by
pre-eminence to the one in Paris, composed of lawyers, or gentlemen of the long robe, as they
were called, whose action the rest uniformly endorsed, and which played an important part on
the eve of the Revolution, and contributed to further the outbreak of it, to its own dissolution
in the end.

PARLIAMENT is the name of the great legislative council of Britain representing the three estates
of the realm--Clergy, Lords, and Commons. The Clergy are represented in the Upper House by
the archbishops and bishops of sees founded prior to 1846, in number 26; the rest of the Upper
House comprises the dukes, marquises, earls, viscounts, and barons of the peerage of Great
Britain who sit in virtue of their titles, and representatives of the Scotch and Irish peerages
elected for life; the total membership is over 550; the House of Lords may initiate any bill
not a money bill, it does not deal with financial measures at all except to give its formal
assent; it also revises bills passed by the Commons, and may reject these. Of late years this
veto has come to be exercised only in cases where it seems likely that the Commons do not retain
the confidence of the people, having thus the effect of referring the question for the decision
of the constituencies. The Lords constitute the final court of appeal in all legal questions,
but in exercising this function only those who hold or have held high judicial office take
part. The House of Commons comprises 670 representatives of the people; its members represent
counties, divisions of counties, burghs, wards of burghs, and universities, and are elected
by owners of land and by occupiers of land or buildings of £10 annual rental who are commoners,
males, of age, and not disqualified by unsoundness of mind, conviction for crime, or receipt
of parochial relief. The Commons initiates most of the legislation, deals with bills already
initiated and passed by the Lords, inquires into all matters of public concern, discusses and
determines imperial questions, and exercises the sole right to vote supplies of money. To become
law bills must pass the successive stages of first and second reading, committee, and third
reading in both Houses, and receive the assent of the sovereign, which has not been refused
for nearly two centuries.

PARLIAMENT, THE LONG, the name given to the last English Parliament convoked by Charles I.
in 1640, dissolved by Cromwell in 1653, and recalled twice after the death of the Protector
before it finally gave up the ghost.

PARLIAMENT OF DUNCES, name given to a parliament held at Coventry by Henry IV. in 1494, because
no lawyer was allowed to sit in it.

PARLIAMENTARIAN, one who, in the English Civil War, supported the cause of the Parliament against
the king.

PARMA (44), a cathedral and university town in N. Italy, on the Parma, a tributary of the Po,
70 m. NE. of Genoa; is rich in art treasures, has a school of music, picture-gallery, and museum
of antiquities; it manufactures pianofortes, silks, and woollens, and has a cattle and grain
market; Parma was formerly the capital of the duchy of that name; it was the residence of Correggio
as well as the birthplace of Parmigiano.

PARMENION, an able and much-esteemed Macedonian general, distinguished as second in command
at Granicus, Issus, and Arbela, but whom Alexander in some fit of jealousy and under unfounded
suspicion caused to be assassinated in Media.

PARMENIDES, a distinguished Greek philosopher of the Eleatic school, who flourished in the
5th century B.C.; his system was developed by him in the form of an epic poem, in which he
demonstrates the existence of an Absolute which is unthinkable, because it is without limits,
and which he identifies with thought, as the one in the many.

PARMIGIANO, a Lombard painter whose proper name was Girolamo Mazzola, born at Parma; went to
Rome when 19 and obtained the patronage of Clement VII.; after the storming of the city in
1527, during which he sat at work in his studio, he went to Bologna, and four years later returned
to his native city; failing to implement a contract to paint frescoes he was imprisoned, and
on his release retired to Casalmaggiore, where he died; in style he followed Correggio, and
is best known by his "Cupid shaping a Bow" (1504-1540).

PARNASSUS, a mountain in Phocis, 10 m. N. of the Gulf of Corinth, 8000 ft. high, one of the
chief seats of Apollo and the Muses, and an inspiring source of poetry and song, with the oracle
of Delphi and the Castalian spring on its slopes; it was conceived of by the Greeks as in the
centre of the earth.

PARNELL, CHARLES STUART, Irish Home-Ruler, born at Avondale, in Wicklow; was practically the
dictator of his party for a time and carried matters with a high hand, but at the height of
his popularity he suffered a fall, and his death, which was sudden, happened soon after (1846-1891).

PARNELL, THOMAS, English minor poet of the Queen Anne period, born in Dublin, of a Cheshire
family; studied at Trinity College, took orders, and became archdeacon of Clogher; is best
known as the author of "The Hermit," though his odes "The Night-Piece on Death" and the "Hymn
to Contentment" are of more poetic worth; he was the friend of Swift and Pope, and a member
of the Scriblerus Club (1679-1718).

PAROS (7), one of the Cyclades, lying between Naxos and Siphanto, exports wine, figs, and wool;
in a quarry near the summit of Mount St. Elias the famous Parian marble is still cut; the capital
is Paroekia (2).

PARR, CATHERINE, sixth wife of Henry VIII., daughter of Sir Thomas Parr of Kendal, was a woman
of learning and great discretion, acquired great power over the king, persuaded him to consent
to the succession of his daughters, and surviving him, married her former suitor Sir Thomas
Seymour, and died from the effects of childbirth the year after (1512-1548).

PARR, SAMUEL, a famous classical scholar, born at Harrow; became head-master of first Colchester
and then Norwich Grammar-School and a prebend of St. Paul's; he had an extraordinary memory
and was a great talker; he was a good Latinist, but nothing he has left justifies the high
repute in which he was held by his contemporaries (1747-1825).

PARR, THOMAS, called OLD PARR, a man notable for his long life, being said to have lived 152
years and 9 months, from 1483 to 1635.

PARRAMATTA (12), next to Sydney, from which it is 14 m. W., the oldest town in New South Wales;
manufactures colonial tweeds and Parramatta cloths, and is in the centre of orange groves and
fruit gardens.

PARRHASIUS, a gifted painter of ancient Greece, born at Ephesus; came to Athens and became
the rival of Zeuxis; he was the contemporary of Socrates and a man of an arrogant temper; his
works were characterised by the pains bestowed on them.

PARRY, SIR WILLIAM EDWARD, celebrated Arctic explorer, born at Bath; visited the Arctic Seas
under Ross in 1818, conducted a second expedition himself in 1819-20, a third in 1821-23, a
fourth in 1824-26 with unequal success, and a fifth in 1827 in quest of the North Pole viâ
Spitzbergen, in which he was baffled by an adverse current; received sundry honours for his
achievements; died governor of Greenwich Hospital, and left several accounts of his voyages
(1790-1855).

PARSEES (i. e. inhabitants of Pars or Persia), a name given to the disciples of Zoroaster or
their descendants in Persia and India, and sometimes called Guebres; in India they number some
90,000, are to be found chiefly in the Bombay Presidency, form a wealthy community, and are
engaged mostly in commerce; in religion they incline to deism, and pay homage to the sun as
the symbol of the deity; they neither bury their dead nor burn them, but expose them apart
in the open air, where they are left till the flesh is eaten away and only the bones remain,
to be removed afterwards for consignment to a subterranean cavern.

PARSIFAL, the hero of the legend of the HOLY GRAIL (q. v.), and identified with GALAHAD (q.
v.) in the Arthurian legend.

PARSON ADAMS, a simple-minded 18th-century clergyman in Fielding's "Joseph Andrews."

PARSONS, ROBERT, English Jesuit, born in Somersetshire, educated at Oxford and a Fellow of
Balliol College; he became a convert to Roman Catholicism and entered the Society of Jesus
in 1575; conceived the idea of reclaiming England from her Protestant apostasy, and embarked
on the enterprise in 1580, but found it too hot for him, and had to escape to the Continent;
after this he busied himself partly in intrigues to force England into submission and partly
in organising seminaries abroad for English Roman Catholics, and became head of one at Rome,
where he died; he appears to have been a Jesuit to the backbone, and to have served the cause
of Jesuitry with his whole soul (1546-1610).

PARTHENOGENESIS, name given to asexual reproduction, that is, to reproduction of plants or
animals by means of unimpregnated germs or ova.

PARTHENON, a celebrated temple of the Doric order at Athens, dedicated to Athena, and constructed
under Phidias of the marble of Pentelicus, and regarded as the finest specimen of Greek architecture
that exists; it is 228 ft. in length and 64 ft. in height. Parthenon means the chamber of the
maiden goddess, that is, Athena.

PARTHENOPE, in the Greek mythology one of the three SIRENS (q. v.), threw herself into the
sea because her love for Ulysses was not returned, and was drowned; her body was washed ashore
at Naples, which was called Parthenope after her name.

PARTHIA, an ancient country corresponding to Northern Persia; was inhabited by a people of
Scythian origin, who adopted the Aryan speech and manners, and subsequently yielded much to
Greek influence; after being tributary successively to Assyria, Media, Persia, Alexander the
Great, and Syria, they set up an independent kingdom in 250 B.C. In two great contests with
Rome they made the empire respect their prowess; between 53 and 36 B.C. they defeated Crassus
in Mesopotamia, conquered Syria and Palestine, and inflicted disaster on Mark Antony in Armenia;
the renewal of hostilities by Trajan in A.D. 115 brought more varied fortunes, but they extorted
a tribute of 50,000,000 denarii from the Emperor Macrinus in 218. Ctesiphon was their capital;
the Euphrates lay between them and Rome; they were over thrown by Ardashir of Persia in 224.
The Parthians were famous horse-archers, and in retreat shot their arrows backwards often with
deadly effect on a pursuing enemy.

PARTICK (36), a western suburb of Glasgow, has numerous villas, and its working population
is very largely engaged in shipbuilding.

PARTINGTON, MRS., an imaginary lady, the creation of the American humorist Shillaber, distinguished
for her misuse of learned words; also another celebrity who attempted to sweep back the Atlantic
with her mop, the type of those who think to stave back the inevitable.

PASCAL, BLAISE, illustrious French thinker and writer, born at Clermont, in Auvergne; was distinguished
at once as a mathematician, a physicist, and a philosopher; at 16 wrote a treatise on conic
sections, which astonished Descartes; at 18 invented a calculating machine; he afterwards made
experiments in pneumatics and hydrostatics, by which his name became associated with those
of Torricelli and Boyle; an accident which befell him turned his thoughts to religious subjects,
and in 1654 he retired to the convent of PORT ROYAL (q. v.), where he spent as an ascetic the
rest of his days, and wrote his celebrated "Provincial Letters" in defence of the Jansenists
against the Jesuits, and his no less famous "Pensées," which were published after his death;
"his great weapon in polemics," says Prof. Saintsbury, "is polite irony, which he first brought
to perfection, and in the use of which he has hardly been equalled, and has certainly not been
surpassed since" (1623-1662).

PAS-DE-CALAIS, the French name for the Strait of Dover; also the name of the adjacent department
of France.

PASHA, a Turkish title, originally bestowed on princes of the blood, but now extended to governors
of provinces and prominent officers in the army and navy.

PASIPHAË, the wife of MINOS (q. v.) and mother of the MINOTAUR (q. v.).

PASKIEVITCH, a Russian general, born at Poltava; took part in repelling the French in 1812,
defeated the Persians in 1826-27 and the Turks in 1828-29; suppressed a Polish insurrection
in 1831 and a Magyar revolution in 1849; was wounded at Silistria in 1854 and resigned (1782-1856).

PASQUINO, a cobbler or tailor who lived in Rome at the end of the 15th century, notable for
his witty and sarcastic sayings, near whose shop after his death a fragment of a statue was
dug up and named after him, on which, as representing him, the Roman populace claim to this
day, it would seem, the privilege of placarding jibes against particularly the ecclesiastical
authorities of the place, hence Pasquinade.

PASSAU (17), a Bavarian fortified town, situated at the confluence of the Inn and the Danube,
105 m. E. of Münich by rail; is a picturesque place, strategically important, with manufactures
of leather, porcelain, and parquet, and trade in salt and corn.

PASSING-BELL, a bell tolled at the moment of the death of a person to invite his neighbours
to pray for the safe passing of his soul.

PASSION PLAY, a dramatic representation of the several stages in the passion of Christ.

PASSION SUNDAY, the fifth Sunday in Lent, which is succeeded by what is called the Passion Week.

PASSION WEEK is properly the week preceding Holy Week, but in common English usage the name
is given to Holy Week itself, i. e. to the week immediately preceding Easter, commemorating
Christ's passion.

PASSIONISTS, an order of priests, called of the Holy Cross, founded in 1694 by Paul Francisco,
of the Cross in Sardinia, whose mission it is to preach the Passion of Christ and bear witness
to its spirit and import, and who have recently established themselves in England and America;
they are noted for their austerity.

PASSOVER, the chief festival of the Jews in commemoration of the passing of the destroying
angel over the houses of the Israelites on the night when he slew the first-born of the Egyptians;
it was celebrated in April, lasted eight days, only unleavened bread was used in its observance,
and a lamb roasted whole was eaten with bitter herbs, the partakers standing and road-ready
as on their departure from the land of bondage.

PASSOW, FRANZ, German philologist, born in Mecklenburg, professor at Breslau; his chief work
"Hand-Wörterbuch der Griechischen Sprache"; an authority in subsequent Greek lexicography (1786-1833).

PASTA, JUDITH, a famous Italian operatic singer, born near Milan, of Jewish birth; her celebrity
lasted from 1822 to 1835, after which she retired into private life; she had a voice of great
compass (1798-1865).

PASTEUR, LOUIS, an eminent French chemist, born at Dôle, in dep. of Jura, celebrated for his
studies and discoveries in fermentation, and also for his researches in hydrophobia and his
suggestion of inoculation as a cure; the Pasteur Institute in Paris was the scene of his researches
from 1886 (1822-1895).

PASTON LETTERS, a series of letters and papers, over a thousand in number, belonging to a Norfolk
family of the name, and published by Sir John Fenn over a century ago, dating from the reign
of Henry V. to the close of the reign of Henry VII.; of importance in connection with the political
and social history of the period.

PASTORAL STAFF, a bishop's staff with a crooked head, symbolical of his authority and function
as a shepherd in spiritual matters of the souls in his diocese.

PATAGONIA is the territory at the extreme S. of South America, lying between the Rio Colorado
and the Strait of Magellan. Chilian Patagonia is a narrow strip W. of the Andes, with a broken
coast-line, many rocky islands and peninsulas. Its climate is temperate but very rainy, and
much of it is covered with dense forests which yield valuable timber; coal is found at Punta
Arenas on the Strait. The population (3) consists chiefly of migratory Araucanian Indians and
the Chilian settlers at Punta Arenas. Eastern or Argentine Patagonia is an extensive stretch
of undulating plateaux intersected by ravines, swept by cold W. winds, and rainless for eight
months of the year. The base of the Andes is fertile and forest-clad, the river valleys can
be cultivated, but most of the plains are covered with coarse grass or sparse scrub, and there
are some utterly desolate regions. Lagoons abound, and there are many rivers running eastward
from the Andes. Herds of horses and cattle are bred on the pampas. The Indians of this region
(7) are among the tallest races of the world. There are 2000 settlers at Patagones on the Rio
Negro, and a Welsh colony on the Chubut.

PATANJALI is the name of two ancient Indian authors, of whom one is the author of the "Yoga,"
a theistic system of philosophy, and the other of a criticism on the Sanskrit grammarian Pánini.

PATCHOULI, a perfume with a strong odour, derived from the dried roots of an Indian plant introduced
into the country in 1844.

PATER, WALTER HORATIO, an English prose-writer, specially studious of word, phrase, and style,
born in London; studied at Oxford, and became a Fellow of Brasenose College; lived chiefly
in London; wrote studies in the "History of the Renaissance," "Marcus the Epicurean," "Imaginary
Portraits," "Appreciations," along with an essay on "Style"; literary criticism was his forte
(1839-1894).

PATERCULUS, MARCUS VELLEIUS, a Latin historian of the 1st century, author of an epitome, especially
of Roman history, rather disfigured by undue flattery of Tiberius his patron, as well as of
Cæsar and Augustus.

PATERSON, ROBERT, the original of Scott's "Old Mortality," a stone-mason, born near Hawick;
devoted 40 years of his life to restoring and erecting monumental stones to the memory of the
Scotch Covenanters (1712-1801).

PATERSON, WILLIAM, a famous financier, born in Tinwald parish, Dumfriesshire; originated the
Bank of England, projected the ill-fated Darien scheme, and lost all in the venture, though
he recovered compensation afterwards, an indemnity for his losses of £18,000; he was a long-headed
Scot, skilful in finance and in matters of trade (1658-1719).

PATHOS, the name given to an expression of deep feeling, and calculated to excite similar feelings
in others.

PATLOCK, ROBERT, English novelist, author of "Peter Wilkins," an exquisite production; the
heroine, the flying girl Youwarkee (1697-1767).

PATMORE, COVENTRY, English poet, born in Essex, best known as the author of "The Angel in the
House," a poem in praise of domestic bliss, succeeded by others, superior in some respects,
of which "The Unknown Eros" is by many much admired; he was a Roman Catholic by religious profession
(1823-1896).

PATMOS, a barren rocky island in the Ægean Sea, S. of Samos, 28 m. in circuit, where St. John
suffered exile, and where it is said he wrote the Apocalypse.

PATNA (165), the seventh city of India, in Bengal, at the junction of the Son, the Gandak,
and the Ganges; is admirably situated for commerce; has excellent railway communication, and
trades largely in cotton, oil-seeds, and salt. It is a poor city with narrow streets, and except
the Government buildings, Patna College, a Roman Catholic cathedral, and a mosque, has scarcely
any good buildings. At Dinapur, its military station, 6 m. to the W., mutiny broke out in 1857.
It is famous for its rice, but this is largely a re-export.

PATOIS, a name the French give to a corrupt dialect of a language spoken in a remote province
of a country.

PATON, JOHN GIBSON, missionary to the New Hebrides, son of a stocking-weaver of Kirkmahoe,
Dumfriesshire; after some work in Glasgow City Mission was ordained by the Reformed Presbyterian
Church, and laboured in Tanna and Aniwa for twenty-five years; his account of his work was
published in 1890; b. 1824.

PATON SIR JOSEPH NOEL, poet and painter, born at Dunfermline; became a pattern designer, but
afterwards studied in Edinburgh and London, and devoted himself to art; his early subjects
were mythical and legendary, later they have been chiefly religious; he was appointed Queen's
Limner for Scotland in 1865, knighted in 1867, and in 1876 received his LL.D. from Edinburgh
University; his "Quarrel" and "Reconciliation of Oberon and Titania" are in the National Gallery,
Edinburgh; the illustrations of the "Dowie Dens o' Yarrow," and the series of religious allegories,
"Pursuit of Pleasure," "Lux in Tenebris," "Faith and Reason," &c., are familiar through the
engravings; "Poems by a Painter" appeared in 1861; b. 1821.

PATRAS (37), on the NW. corner of the Morean Peninsula, on the shores of the Gulf of Patras;
has a fine harbour; is the chief western port of Greece, shipping currants, olive-oil, and
wine, and importing textiles, machinery, and coal; it is a handsome city, in the present century
rebuilt and fortified.

PATRIARCH, in Church history is the name given originally to the bishops of Rome, Antioch,
and Alexandria, and later to those also of Constantinople and Jerusalem, who held a higher
rank than other bishops, and exercised a certain authority over the bishops in their districts.
The title is in vogue in the Greek, Syrian, Armenian, and other Churches. It was originally
given to the chief of a race or clan, the members of which were called after him.

PATRICIANS AND PLEBEIANS, the two classes into which, from the earliest times, the population
of the Roman State was divided, the former of which possessed rights and privileges not conceded
to the latter, and stood to them as patrons to clients, like the baron of the Middle Ages to
the vassals. This inequality gave rise to repeated and often protracted struggles in the commonalty,
during which the latter gradually encroached on the rights of the former till the barrier in
civic status, and even in social to some extent, was as good as abolished, and members of the
plebeian class were eligible to the highest offices and dignities of the State.

PATRICK, ORDER OF ST., an Irish order of knighthood, founded in 1783 by George III., comprising
the sovereign, the Lord-Lieutenant, and twenty-two knights, and indicated by the initial letters
K.P.

PATRICK, ST., the apostle and patron saint of Ireland; his birthplace uncertain; flourished
in the 5th century; his mission, which extended over great part of Ireland, and over thirty
or forty years of time, was eminently successful, and at the end of it he was buried in Downpatrick,
henceforth a spot regarded as a sacred one. Various miracles are ascribed to him, and among
the number the extirpation from the soil of all venomous reptiles.

PATRICK, SIMON, English prelate; distinguished himself, when he was rector of St. Paul's, by
his self-denying devotion during the Plague of London; became bishop in succession of Chichester
and Ely, and was the author of a number of expository works (1652-1707).

PATRISTIC LITERATURE, the name given to the writings of the early Fathers of the Christian Church.

PATROCLUS, a friend of Achilles, who accompanied him to the Trojan War, and whose death by
the hand of Hector roused Achilles out of his sullenness, and provoked him to avenge the deed
in the death of Hector.

PATTESON, JOHN COLERIDGE, bishop of Melanesia, grand-nephew of Coleridge; a devoted bishop,
in material things no less than spiritual, among the Melanesian islanders; was murdered, presumably
through mistake, by the natives of one of the Santa Cruz groups (1827-1871).

PATTI, ADELINA, prima donna, born in Madrid, of Italian extraction; made her first appearance
at New York in 1859, and in London at Covent Garden, as Amina in "La Somnambula," in 1861,
and has since made the round once and again of the Continent and America, North and South;
has been married three times, being divorced by her first husband, and lives at Craig-y-nos
Castle, near Swansea, Wales; b. 1843.

PATTISON, MARK, a distinguished English scholar, born at Hornby, Yorkshire; studied at Oxford,
and was for a time carried away with the Tractarian Movement, but when his interest in it died
out he gave himself to literature and philosophy; wrote in the famous "Essays and Reviews"
a paper on "The Tendency of Religious Thought in England"; became rector of Lincoln College,
Oxford; wrote his chief literary work, a "Life of Isaac Casaubon," a mere fragment of what
it lay in him to do, and left an autobiography, which revealed a wounded spirit which no vulnerary
known to him provided by the pharmacopoeia of earth or heaven could heal (1813-1889).

PATTISON'S PROCESS, the name of a process for desilverising lead, dependent on the fact that
lead which has least silver in it solidifies first on liquefaction.

PAU (31), chief town of the French province of Basses-Pyrénées, on the Gave de Pau, 60 m. E.
of Bayonne; is situated amid magnificent mountain scenery, and is a favourite winter resort
for the English; linen and chocolate are manufactured; it was the capital of Navarre, and has
a magnificent castle; it stands on the edge of a high plateau, and commands a majestic view
of the Pyrenees on the S.

PAUILLAC, a port for Bordeaux, on the left bank of the Gironde.

PAUL, the name of five popes: PAUL I., Pope from 757 to 797; PAUL II., pope from 1464 to 1471;
PAUL III., Pope from 1534 to 1549, was zealous against the Protestant cause, excommunicated
Henry VIII. in 1536, sanctioned the Jesuit order in 1540, convened and convoked the Council
of Trent in 1545; PAUL IV., Pope from 1555 to 1559, originally an ascetic, was zealous for
the best interests of the Church and public morality, established the Inquisition at Rome,
and issued the first Index Expurgatorius; PAUL V., Pope from 1605 to 1621, his pontificate
distinguished by protracted strife with the Venetian republic, arising out of the claim of
the clergy for immunity from the civil tribunals, and which was brought to an end through the
intervention of Henry IV. of France in 1607; it need not be added that he was zealous for orthodoxy,
like his predecessors.

PAUL, ST., originally called Saul, the great Apostle of the Gentiles, born at Tarsus, in Cilicia,
by birth a Jew and a Roman citizen; trained to severity by Gamaliel at Jerusalem in the Jewish
faith, and for a time the bitter persecutor of the Christians, till, on his way to Damascus,
in the prosecution of his hostile purposes, the overpowering conviction flashed upon him that
he was fighting against the cause that, as a Jew, he should have embraced, and which he was
at once smitten with zeal to further, as the one cause on which hinged the salvation, not of
the Jews only, but of the whole world. He did more for the extension, if not the exposition,
of the Christian faith at its first promulgation than any of the Apostles, and perhaps all
of them together, and it is questionable if but for him it would have become, as it has become,
the professed religion of the most civilised section of the world.

PAUL I., Czar of Russia, son of the Empress Catharine II., and her successor in 1796; was a
despotic and arbitrary ruler; fought with the allies against France, but entered into an alliance
with Napoleon in 1799; was murdered by certain of his nobles as he was being forced to abdicate
(1734-1801).

PAUL SAMOSATA, so called as born at Samosata, on the Euphrates, a heresiarch who denied the
doctrine of three persons in one God, was bishop of Antioch, under the sway of Zenobia, but
deposed on her defeat by Aurelian in 272.

PAULDING, American writer, born in New York State; author of "History of John Bull and Brother
Jonathan," and the novels "The Dutchman's Fireside" and "Westward Ho" (1779-1860).

PAULI, REINHOLD, German historian of England, born in Berlin; studied much in England, and
became professor of History at Göttingen; wrote "Life of King Alfred," "History of England
from the Accession of Henry II. to the Death of Henry VII.," "Pictures of Old England," and
"Simon de Montfort" (1823-1882).

PAULICIANS, a heretical sect founded by Constantine of Mananalis about A.D. 660 in Armenia,
and persisting in spite of severe persecution, were transferred to Thrace in 970, where remnants
were found as late as the 13th century; they held that an evil spirit was the creator and god
of this world, and that God was the ruler of the next; they refused to ascribe divinity to
Christ, to worship Mary, to reverence the cross, or observe the sacraments of Baptism and Eucharist;
their name was derived from the special regard in which they held the writings of St. Paul,
from which they professed to derive their tenets; they were charged with Manichæism, but they
indignantly repudiated the imputation.

PAULINE, Browning's first poem, written at 19 and published at 21, "breathless, intense, melodramatic,"
says Professor Saintsbury, "eschewing incident, but delighting in analysis, which was to be
one of the poet's points throughout, and ultimately to prevail over the others."

PAULINUS, the first archbishop of York, sent in company with Augustin from Rome by Gregory
to Britain in 601: laboured partly in Kent and partly in Northumbria, and persuaded Edwin of
Northumbria to embrace Christianity in 629; d. 644.

PAULUS, HEINRICH, one of the founders of German rationalism, born near Stuttgart; held in succession
sundry professorships; denied the miraculous in the Scripture history, and invented ingenious
rational explanations, now out of date (1761-1851).

PAUSANIAS, a famous Spartan general, the grandson of Leonidas, who, as commander-in-chief of
the Greeks, overthrew the Persian army under Mardonius at Platæa in 479, but who, elated by
this and other successes, aimed at the sovereignty of Greece by alliance with Xerxes, and being
discovered, took refuge in a temple at Athens, where he was blockaded and starved to death
in 477 B.C., his mother throwing the first stone of the pile that was cast up to bar his exit.

PAUSANIAS, a Greek traveller and topographer, lived during the reigns of Antoninus Pius and
M. Aurelius; wrote an "Itinerary of Greece" in 10 books, the fruit of his own peregrinations,
full of descriptions of great value both to the historian and the antiquary.

PAVIA (30), on the Ticino, in Lombardy, is an imposing "city of a hundred towers," with little
industry or commerce; in its unfinished cathedral St. Augustine was buried; San Michele, where
the early kings of Italy were crowned, dates from the 7th century; the University was founded
by Charlemagne, and has now attached to it colleges for poor students, a library, museum, botanic
garden, and school of art; stormed by Napoleon in 1796, Pavia was in Austrian possession from
1814 till its inclusion in the kingdom of Italy 1859.

PAXTON, SIR JOSEPH, architect of the Crystal Palace, born in Bedfordshire, was originally a
gardener in the service of the Duke of Devonshire, and promoted to the charge of the duke's
gardens at Chatsworth, where he displayed the architectural ability in the construction of
large glass conservatories which developed itself in the construction of the Great Exhibition
of 1851, for which he received the honour of knighthood (1803-1865).

PAYN, JAMES, English novelist, born at Cheltenham; edited Chambers's Journal and Cornhill Magazine;
his novels were numerous and of average quality, "Lost Sir Massingberd" and "By Proxy" among
the most successful (1830-1899).

PAYNE, JOHN, actor and playwright, born in New York; resided in London from 1813 to 1832; most
of his days a stranger in a strange land, immortalised himself as the author of "Home, Sweet
Home"; only his remains buried at home 30 years after his death at Tunis (1792-1852).

PEABODY, GEORGE, philanthropist, born at Danvers, now Peabody, in Massachusetts, U.S.; made
a large fortune as a dry-goods merchant in Baltimore and as a stockbroker as well in London;
gave away for benevolent purposes in his lifetime a million and a half of money, and left to
his relatives one million more; died in London; his body was laid beside his mother's at South
Danvers, U.S. (1795-1869).

PEACE SOCIETY, a society founded in 1816 for the promotion of permanent and universal peace;
advocates a gradual, proportionate, and simultaneous disarmament of all nations and the principle
of arbitration.

PEACOCK, THOMAS LOVE, English novelist, born at Weymouth; was pretty much a self-taught scholar,
and no mean one, as his literary activity over half a century abundantly showed; held a post
in the India House, his predecessor being James Mill and his successor John Stuart Mill; was
an intimate friend of Shelley and the father-in-law of George Meredith; he made his first literary
appearance as a poet in two small volumes of poems, and his first novel was "Headlong Hall"
as his latest was "Gryll Grange," all of them written in a vein of conventional satire, and
more conspicuous for wit than humour; Thackeray owed not a little to him, little as the generality
did, he being "too learned for a shallow age" (1785-1866).

PEARSON, JOHN, English prelate, born in Norfolk; held a succession of preferments in the Church,
and in the end the bishopric of Chester, author of a very learned work "Exposition of the Creed,"
of which Bentley said, "its very dross is gold" (1612-1686).

PEASANT WAR or BAUERNKRIEG, revolt of the peasantry in the S. and W. of Germany against the
oppression and cruelty of the nobles and clergy which broke out at different times from 1500
to 1525, and which, resulting in their defeat, rendered their lot harder than before. The cause
of the Reformation, held answerable for the movement, suffered damage as well, but indeed the
excesses of the insurgents were calculated to provoke the retribution that was meted out to them.

PECHILI, GULF OF, a great land-locked bay opening in the NW. of the Yellow Sea, receives the
waters of the Hoang-ho, and on opposite tongues of land at the mouth of it stand Port Arthur
and Wei-hai-Wei.

PECKSNIFF, a pronounced hypocrite in Dickens's "Martin Chuzzlewit," and who lies and cants
whether he is drunk or sober.

PECOCK, REGINALD, bishop in succession of St. Asaph and Chichester, born in Wales; the author,
among other works, of the "Repressor of Over Much Blaming of the Clergy" and the "Book of Faith";
he wrote on behalf of the Church against Lollards, but he offended Churchmen as well as the
latter--Churchmen because he agreed with the Lollards in regard to the Bible as the rule of
faith, and the Lollards because he appealed to reason as the interpreter of the Bible; he displeased
the clergy also by his adoption in theological debate of the mother-tongue, but figures since
in literature as the first English theologian; he was accused of treating authority with disrespect
as well as setting up reason above revelation, obliged to recant in a most humiliating manner,
deprived of his bishopric, and condemned to solitary confinement, away from his books, all
to a few, and denied the use of writing materials (1390-1460).

PEDRO I., emperor of Brazil, second son of John VI. of Portugal; reigned from 1822 to 1831,
when he abdicated in favour of his son (1798-1834).

PEDRO II., emperor of Brazil, son of preceding, ascended the throne in 1831; reigned peacefully
till 1889, when a sudden revolution obliged him to resign, and retire to Europe and take up
his abode in France, where he indulged his taste for science and learning (1825-1891).

PEEBLES, PETER, a character in Scott's "Redgauntlet."

PEEBLESSHIRE (19), a lowland Scottish county bordered by Lanark, Midlothian, Selkirk, and Dumfries;
comprises hilly pastoral land watered by the upper Tweed; Windlestraw, Hartfell, and Broadlaw
are the highest of its grassy hills; among the lesser rivers are the Leithen and Quair; some
crops are grown, but most of the land is devoted to sheep grazing; a little coal is found in
the N.; the only towns are Innerleithen (3) and PEEBLES (5), the county town, engaged in Tweed
manufacture. The county is known also by the name of Tweeddale; its representation in Parliament
is united with that of Selkirk.

PEEL (4), a fishing town and holiday resort on the W. coast of the Isle of Man, 12 m. NW. of
Douglas; it is noted for its castle.

PEEL, SIR ROBERT, English statesman, born near Bury, Lancashire, the son of a wealthy cotton-spinner,
to whose large fortune and baronetcy he succeeded; graduated at Oxford in 1808, and next year
entered Parliament as Tory member for Cashel; he afterwards sat for his own university, and
after 1832 for Tamworth; he was appointed Under-Secretary for the Colonies in 1811. and from
1812 till 1818 was Secretary for Ireland; in 1822 he became Home Secretary, but seceded from
the Government when Canning became Premier in 1827; the question at issue was Catholic Emancipation,
and it was characteristic of Peel that in the Government which succeeded Canning's he had the
courage, having changed his opinions, to introduce the measure which removed the disabilities;
opposed to Reform he became leader of the Conservative opposition in the Parliament of 1833;
called to the Premiership in 1834 he could not maintain his administration, and it was not
till 1841 that the victory of protection over the free-trade agitation gave him a stable majority
in the Commons; his first measure was a modification of the corn laws on protectionist principles,
1842; then followed the 7d. income-tax and general tariff revision; in 1845 the agitation for
free-trade in corn was brought to a crisis by the Irish potato famine; Peel yielded, and next
year carried the final repeal of the corn laws; his "conversion" split the Tory party and he
retired from office, becoming a supporter of the Whig ministry in its economical and ecclesiastical
policy; he was a master of finance, an easy speaker, slow to form but conscientious to act
upon his convictions, a man of the highest character; his death was the result of a fall from
horseback (1788-1850).

PEEL TOWERS, the name given to fortresses of the moss-troopers on the Scottish border.

PEELE, GEORGE, dramatist, of the Elizabethan period, born in London; author of "Arraignment
of Paris" and "David and Bathsabe," full of passages of poetic beauty; has been charged with
having led the life of a debauchee and to have died of a disease brought on by his profligacy,
but it is now believed he has been maligned (1548-1597).

PEEPING TOM OF COVENTRY. See GODIVA.

PEERS, THE TWELVE, the famous warriors or paladins at the court of Charlemagne, so called from
their equality in prowess and honour.

PEGASUS, the winged horse, begotten of Poseidon, who sprung from the body of Medusa when Perseus
swooped off her head, and who with a stroke of his hoof broke open the spring of Hippocrene
on Mount Helicon, and mounted on whom Bellerophon slew the Chimera, and by means of which he
hoped, if he had not been thrown, to ascend to heaven, as Pegasus did alone, becoming thereafter
a constellation in the sky; this is the winged horse upon whose back poets, to the like disappointment,
hope to scale the empyrean, who have not, like Bellerophon, first distinguished themselves
by slaying Chimeras.

PEGU (6), a town of Lower Burma, in the province and on the river of the same name, 46 m. NE.
of Rangoon, is a very ancient city; the province (1,162) is a rice-growing country, with great
teak forests on the mountain slopes.

PEI-HO, a river of North China, 350 miles long; formed by the junction of four other rivers,
on the chief of which stands Pekin; has a short navigable course south-eastward to the Gulf
of Pechili, where it is defended by the forts of Taku.

PEIRCE, BENJAMIN, American mathematician and astronomer, born in Massachusetts, U.S.; wrote
on the discovery of Neptune and Saturn's rings, as well as a number of mathematical text-books
(1809-1880).

PEISHWAH, the name of the overlord or chief minister of Mahratta chiefs in their wars with
the Mohammedans, who had his head-quarters at Poonah, the last to hold office putting himself
under British protection, and surrendering his territory; nominated as his successor Nana Sahib,
who became the chief instigator of the Mutiny of 1857, on account, it is believed, of the refusal
of the British Government to continue to him the pension of his predecessor who had adopted him.

PEKIN (1,000), the capital of China, on a sandy plain in the basin of the Pei-ho, is divided
into two portions, each separately walled, the northern or Manchu city and the southern or
Chinese. The former contains the Purple Forbidden city, in which are the Imperial palaces;
surrounding it is the August city, in which are a colossal copper Buddha and the Temple of
Great Happiness. Outside this are the government offices, foreign legations, the temple of
Confucius, a great Buddhist monastery, a Roman Catholic cathedral, and Christian mission stations.
The Chinese city has many temples, mission stations, schools, and hospitals; but it is sparsely
populated, houses are poor, and streets unpaved. Pekin has railway communication with Hankow,
and is connected with other cities and with Russia by telegraph. Its trade and industry are
inconsiderable. It is one of the oldest cities in the world. It was Kubla Khan's capital, and
has been the metropolis of the empire since 1421.

PELAGIUS, a celebrated heresiarch of the 5th century, born in Britain or Brittany; denied original
sin and the orthodox doctrine of divine grace as the originating and sustaining power in redemption,
a heresy for which he suffered banishment from Rome in 418 at the hands of the Church. A modification
of this theory went under the name of Semi-Pelagianism, which ascribes only the first step
in conversion to free-will, and the subsequent sanctification of the soul to God's grace.

PELASGI, a people who in prehistoric times occupied Greece, the Archipelago, the shores of
Asia Minor, and great part of Italy, and who were subdued, and more or less reduced to servitude,
by the Hellenes, and supplanted by them. They appear to have been, so far as we find them,
an agricultural people, settled and not roving about, and to have had strongholds enclosed
in cyclopean walls, that is, walls consisting of huge boulders unconnected with cement.

PELEUS, the son of Æacus, the husband of Thetis, the father of Achilles, and one of the Argonauts,
after whom Achilles is named Pelides, i. e. Peleus' boy.

PELEW ISLANDS (10), twenty-six in number, of coral formation, and surrounded by reefs; are
in the extreme W. of the Caroline Archipelago in the North Pacific, and SE. of the Philippines.
They belong to Spain; are small but fertile, and have a healthy climate. The natives are Malays,
and though gentle lead a savage life.

PELHAM, a fashionable novel by Bulwer Lytton, severely satirised by Carlyle in "Sartor" in
the chapter on "Dandies" as the elect of books of this class.

PELIAS, king of Iolchus, and son of Poseidon, was cut to pieces by his own daughters, which
were thrown by them into a boiling caldron in the faith of the promise of Medea, that he might
thereby be restored to them young again. It was he who, to get rid of Jason, sent him in quest
of the golden fleece in the hope that he might perish in the attempt.

PELICAN, a bird, the effigy of which was used in the Middle Ages to symbolise charity; generally
represented as wounding its breast to feed its young with its own blood, and which became the
image of the Christ who shed His blood for His people.

PELIDES, a patronymic of Achilles, as the son of Peleus.

PELION, a range, or the highest of a range, of mountains in the E. of Thessaly, upon which,
according to Greek fables, the Titans hoisted up Mount Ossa in order to scale heaven and dethrone
Zeus, a strenuous enterprise which did not succeed, and the symbol of all such.

PELISSIER, a French marshal, born near Rouen; was made Duc de Malakoff for storming the Malakoff
tower, which led to the fall of Sebastopol in 1855; rose from the ranks to be Governor-General
of Algeria, the office he held when he died (1794-1864).

PELLA, the capital of Macedonia, and the birthplace of Alexander the Great, stood on a hill
amid the marches NW. of Thessalonica.

PELLEGRINI, CARLO, a caricaturist, born in Capua; came to London; was distinguished for the
inimitable drollery of his cartoons (1838-1889).

PELLICO, SILVIO, Italian poet and patriot, born in Piedmont; suffered a fifteen years' imprisonment
in the Spielberg at Brünn for his patriotism, from which he was liberated in 1830; he wrote
an account of his life in prison, which commanded attention all over Europe, both for the subject-matter
of it and the fascination of the style (1789-1854).

PELLISSON, PAUL, a man of letters and a wit of the age of Louis XIV.; spent some five years
in the Bastille, but after his release was appointed historiographer-royal; in his captivity
he made a companion of a spider, who was accustomed to eat out of his hand (1624-1693).

PELOPIDAS, a Theban general, and leader of the "sacred band"; the friend of Epaminondas; contributed
to the expulsion (379 B.C.) of the Spartans from the citadel of Thebes, of which they had taken
possession in 380, after which he was elected to the chief magistracy; gained a victory over
Alexander of Pheræ the tyrant of Thessaly, but lost his life in 362 while too eagerly pursuing
the foe.

PELOPONNESIAN WAR, a war of thirty years' duration (431-404 B.C.) between Athens and Sparta,
which ended in the supremacy of the latter, till the latter was overthrown at Leuctra by the
Thebans under Epaminondas in 371 B.C. This war is the subject of the history of Thucydides.

PELOPONNESUS (lit. the Isle of Pelops), the ancient name of the Morea of Greece, the chief
cities of which were Corinth, Argos, and Sparta; it was connected with the rest of Greece by
the Isthmus of Corinth.

PELOPS, in the Greek mythology the grandson of Zeus and son of Tantalus, who was slain by his
father and served up by him at a banquet he gave the gods to test their omniscience, but of
the shoulder of which only Demeter in a fit of abstraction partook, whereupon the gods ordered
the body to be thrown into a boiling caldron, from which Pelops was drawn out alive, with the
shoulder replaced by one of ivory.

PEMBROKESHIRE (89), a maritime county, the farthest W. in Wales; is washed by St. George's
Channel except on the E., where it borders on Cardigan and Carmarthen. It is a county of low
hills, with much indented coast-line. Milford Haven, in the S., is one of the best harbours
in the world. The climate is humid; two-thirds of the soil is under pasture; coal, iron, lead,
and slate are found. ST. DAVID'S is a cathedral city; the county town is PEMBROKE (18) on Milford
Haven, and near it is the fortified dockyard and arsenal PEMBROKE DOCK (10).

PEMMICAN, a food for long voyages, particularly in Arctic expeditions, consisting of lean meat
or beef without fat dried, pounded, and pressed into cakes. The use of it is now suppressed.

PENANCE, in the Roman Catholic Church an expression of penitence as well as the sacrament of
absolution; also the suffering to which a penitent voluntarily subjects himself, according
to the schoolmen, as an expression of his penitence, and in punishment of his sin; the three
steps of penitence were contrition, confession, and satisfaction.

PENANG or PRINCE OF WALES ISLANDS (91), a small fertile island near the northern opening of
the Straits of Malacca, off the Malay coast, and 360 m. NW. of Singapore; is one of the British
Straits Settlements, of value strategically; it is hilly, and covered with vegetation; the
population are half Chinese, a fourth of them Malays; figs, spices, and tobacco are exported.
The capital is GEORGETOWN (25), on the island. PROVINCE WELLESLEY (97), on the mainland, belongs
to the same settlement; it exports tapioca and sugar. The DINDINGS (2), 80 m. S., are another
dependency.

PENATES, the name given by the Romans to their household deities, individually and unitedly,
in honour of whom a fire, in charge of the vestal virgins, was kept permanently burning.

PENDA, a Mercian king of the 7th century, who headed a reactionary movement of heathenism against
the domination of Christianity in England, and for a time seemed to carry all before him, but
Christianity, under the preaching of the monks, had gained too deep a hold, particularly in
Northumbria, and he was overpowered in 665 in one final struggle and slain.

PENDENNIS, the name of a novel by Thackeray, from the name of the hero, and published in 1849-50
in succession to "Vanity Fair."

PENDLETON, a NW. suburb of Manchester, in the direction of Bolton, with extensive manufactures
and collieries.

PENDRAGON, a title bestowed on kings by the ancient Britons, and especially on the chiefs among
them chosen by election, so called from their wearing a dragon on their shields or as a crest
in sign of sovereignty.

PENELOPE, the wife of Ulysses, celebrated for her conjugal fidelity during his twenty years'
absence, in the later half of which an army of suitors pled for her hand, pleading that her
husband would never return; but she put them all off by a promise of marriage as soon as she
finished a web (called after Penelope's web) she was weaving, which she wove by day and undid
at night, till their importunities took a violent form, when her husband arrived and delivered her.

PENINSULAR STATE, the State of Florida, from its shape.

PENINSULAR WAR, a war carried on in Spain and Portugal during the years 1808 and 1814, between
the French on the one hand and the Spanish, Portuguese, and British, chiefly under Wellington,
on the other, and which was ended by the victory of the latter over the former at Toulouse
just after Napoleon's abdication.

PENITENTIAL PSALMS or PSALMS OF CONFESSION, is a name given from very early times to Psalms
vi., xxxii., xxxviii., li., cii., cxxx., which are specially expressive of sorrow for sin.
The name belonged originally to the fifty-first Psalm, which was recited at the close of daily
morning service in the primitive Church.

PENITENTS, ORDER OF, a religious order established in 1272 for the reception to the Church
of reformed courtesans.

PENN, WILLIAM, founder of Pennsylvania, the son of an admiral, born in London; was converted
to Quakerism while a student at Oxford, and for a fanatical attack on certain fellow-students
expelled the University; his father sent him to travel in France, and afterwards placed him
in charge of his Irish estates; his religious views occasioned several disputes with his father,
and ultimately brought him into conflict with the Government; he spent several periods of imprisonment
writing books in defence of religious liberty, among them "The Great Cause of Liberty of Conscience"
(1671); then travelled in Holland and Germany propagating his views; his father's death brought
him a fortune and a claim upon the crown which he commuted for a grant of land in North America,
where he founded (1682) the colony of Pennsylvania--the prefix Penn, by command of Charles
II. in honour of the admiral; here he established a refuge for all persecuted religionists,
and laying out Philadelphia as the capital, governed his colony wisely and generously for two
years; he returned to England, where his friendship with James II. brought many advantages
to the Quakers, but laid him under harassing and undeserved prosecutions for treason in the
succeeding reign; a second visit to his colony (1699-1701) gave it much useful legislation;
on his return his agent practically ruined him, and he was a prisoner in the Fleet in 1708;
the closing years of his life were clouded by mental decay (1644-1718).

PENNANT, THOMAS, traveller and naturalist, born near Holywell, Flintshire; studied at Oxford,
but took no degree; in 1746 he made a tour of Cornwall; among his subsequent journeys, of which
he published accounts, were tours in Ireland (1754), the Continent (1764), Scotland (1769 and
1772), and Wales; he wrote several works on zoological subjects, and published an amusing "Literary
Life of the late Thomas Pennant, Esq., by Himself," 1793 (1726-1798).

PENNSYLVANIA (5,258), most populous but one of the American States, lies N. of Mason and Dixon's
Line, separated by New Jersey, on the E. by the Delaware River, with Ohio on the W., New York
on the N., and Lake Erie at the NW. corner. The country is hilly, being traversed by the Blue
Mountains and the Alleghany ranges, with many fertile valleys between the chains, extensive
forests, and much picturesque scenery. The Cumberland Valley in the W. is one of the best farming
lands in New England. The Alleghany River in the W. and the two branches of the Susquehanna
in the centre water the State. Pennsylvania is the greatest mining State in the Union; its
iron-mines and petroleum-wells supply half the iron and most of the oil used in the country;
its bituminous coal-beds in the W. are extremely rich, and the anthracite deposits of the E.
are unrivalled; in manufactures, too, it ranks second among the States; these are very varied,
the most valuable being iron, steel, and shipbuilding. Founded by Swedes, it passed to English
settlers in 1664; the first charter was granted to William Penn in 1681. In the Revolution
it took a prominent part, and was among the first States of the Union. Education is well advanced;
there are 20 State colleges. The mining population includes many Irish, Hungarian, and Italian
immigrants, among whom riots are frequent. Of the agriculturists many are of Dutch descent,
and about two millions still speak a Low German patois known as Pennsylvanian Dutch. HARRISBURG
(39) is the capital; the metropolis is PHILADELPHIA (1,047), the second largest city in the
country; while PITTSBURG (239), ALLEGHANY (105), SCRANTON (75), and READING (59) are among
the many large towns.

PENNY, originally a silver coin, weighed in the 7th century 1/240-th of a Saxon pound, but
decreased in weight till in Elizabeth's time it was 1/63 of an ounce troy. It was at first
indented with a cross so as to be broken for halfpennies and farthings, but silver coins of
these denominations were coined by Edward I. Edward VI. stopped the farthings, and the halfpence
were stopped in the Commonwealth. Copper coinage was established in 1672. The present coins
were issued first in 1860. They are half the size of their predecessors, and intrinsically
worth one-seventh of their nominal value.

PENNY WEDDING, a wedding at which the guests pay part of the charges of the festival.

PENRITH (9), a market town of Cumberland, and tourist centre for the English lakes; contains
a very old church and school, and ruins of a picturesque castle. Brewing, iron-founding, and
timber-sawing are its industries.

PENRYN (3), a Cornish market town at the head of Falmouth harbour; has manufactures of paper,
woollen cloth, and gunpowder. It has considerable fishing industry, and ships the Penryn granite
quarried near.

PENSEROSO, II, a famous Italian poem by Milton, written in 1633.

PENSIONARY, THE GRAND, a State functionary of Holland, whose office, abolished in 1795, it
was to superintend State interests, register decrees, negotiate with other countries, and take
charge of the revenues, &c.

PENTACLE. See PENTAGRAM.

PENTAGRAM, a symbol presumed to possess a magical influence, particularly to charm away evil
spirits, formed by placing the figure of an equilateral triangle athwart another.

PENTAMERONE, a collection of tales in the Neapolitan dialect, supposed to be told during five
days by ten old women to a pseudo-princess, and published at Naples 1637; is of great value
to students of folk-lore.

PENTATEUCH, the name given by Origen to the first five books of the Bible, which the Jews call
the Law or Five-fifths of the Law, the composition of which has of late years been subjected
to keen critical investigation, and the whole ascribed to documents of different dates and
diverse authorship, to the rejection of the old traditional hypothesis that it was the work
of Moses, first called in question by Spinoza, and shown to be untenable by JEAN ASTRUC (q. v.).

PENTECOST (i. e. fiftieth), a great feast of the Jews, so called as held on the fiftieth day
after the second of the Passover. It is called also the Feast of Harvest, or Weeks of First-Fruits,
the Passover feast being connected with the commencement and this with the conclusion of harvest.
It is regarded by the Jews as commemorative of the giving of the law on Mount Sinai, and will
never cease to be associated in the Christian memory with the great awakening from which dates
the first birth of the Christian consciousness in the Christian Church, the moment when the
disciples of Christ first realised in common that their Master was not dead but alive, and
nearer to them than He had been when present in the flesh.

PENTELICUS, a range of mountains in Attica between Athens and Marathon, famous for its quarries
of fine white marble.

PENTHESILEA, the daughter of Ares and the queen of the Amazons; on the death of Hector she
came to the assistance of the Trojans, but was slain by Achilles, who mourned over her when
dying on account of her beauty, her youth, and her courage.

PENTHEUS, a king of Thebes, opposed to the introduction of the Bacchus worship into his kingdom,
was driven mad by the god, and torn in pieces by his mother and sisters, who, under the Bacchic
frenzy, mistook him for a wild beast.

PENTHIÈVRE, DUC DE, the father-in-law of Philippe Egalité, and the protector of Florian (1725-1793).

PENTLAND FIRTH is the strait between the Orkneys and the Scottish mainland connecting the North
Sea with the Atlantic, 12 m. long by 6 broad, and swept by a rapid current very dangerous to
navigation; 5000 vessels traverse it annually.

PENTONVILLE, a populous district of London, in the parishes of St James's, Clerkenwell, and
Islington, where is the Pentonville Model Prison, built in 1840-42 on the radiating principle
to accommodate 520 prisoners.

PENUMBRA, the name given to the partial shadow on the rim of the total shadow of an eclipse,
also to the margin of the light and shade of a picture.

PENZANCE (14), the largest town in Cornwall, most westerly borough in England, and terminus
of the Great Western Railway, is beautifully situated on the rocky W. shore of Mount's Bay;
its public buildings chiefly of granite. It has a fine harbour and docks, and is the centre
of the mackerel and pilchard fishing industries. Its mild climate makes it a favourite watering-place.

PEOPLE'S PALACE, Mile End Road, London, is an institution for the recreation and instruction
of the East-end population, opened by the Queen in May 1887, and owing its origin to the impulse
given by Sir W. Besant's "All Sorts and Conditions of Men." In it are a library, art galleries,
concert and reading rooms, baths, gymnasium, &c., and technical classes and handicraft schools
are held; these are attended by 5000 pupils, and the institution is visited by a million and
a quarter people annually.

PEPIN THE SHORT, king of the Franks, was the son of Charles Martel, and at first shared with
his brother Carloman the viceroyalty of the kingdom under Hilderik III.; in 747 Carloman retired
to a monastery, and five years later Pepin deposed Hilderik and ascended the throne; his kingdom
embraced the valleys of the Rhine, the Rhône, and the Seine; he united his interests with those
of the Church, and in 756 entered Italy to rescue the Pope from the threatened domination of
the Lombards; reduced Aistulf of Lombardy to vassalage, assumed the title of Patrician of Rome,
and by bestowing on Pope Stephen III. the "Exarchate" of the Roman empire, laid the foundation
of papal temporal sovereignty, five cities being placed under his jurisdiction; his subsequent
exploits included the conquest of the Loire Valley and the expulsion of the Moors from France;
his fame was overshadowed by that of his son Charlemagne; d. 678.

PEPSIN, an essential constituent of the gastric juice extracted from the stomach of the calf,
sheep, and pig, and used in medicine to supply any defect of it in the stomach of a patient.

PEPYS, SAMUEL, author of a famous Diary, a scholarly man and respected as connected with different
grades of society; held a clerkship in the Admiralty, and finally the secretaryship; kept a
diary of events from 1660 to 1669, which remained in MS. till 1826, when it was published in
part by Lord Braybrooke, and is of interest for the insight it gives into the manners of the
time and the character of the author; the latest and completest edition of this Diary is that
of H. B. Wheatley, published in 1893-96, in eight vols. (1633-1703).

PERA, a suburb of Constantinople, on the N. side of the Golden Horn, and the foreign diplomatic
quarter.

PERÆA, "the country beyond," designated that part of Palestine beyond or E. of the Jordan.

PERCEVAL, a hero of the legends of chivalry, famed for his adventures in quest of the Holy Graal.

PERCEVAL, SPENCER, English statesman, born in London, son of the Earl of Egmont; bred to the
bar; entered Parliament as a supporter of Pitt, and held a succession of posts under different
administrations, attaining the Premiership, which he held from 1800 to 1812, on the 11th of
May, of which year he was shot dead by a madman of the name of Bellingham in the lobby of the
House; he was devoted to the throne, and a man of upright character but narrow sympathies (1762-1812).

PERCIVAL, JAMES GATES, American poet and geologist, born at Kensington, Connecticut; took his
degree at Yale in 1815, and qualified as a medical practitioner; he was for a few months professor
of Chemistry at West Point, but retired and gave himself to literature and geology; his scientific
works are valuable; "Prometheus and Clio" appeared in 1822, "Dream of a Day" in 1843; he died
at Hazel Green, Wisconsin (1795-1856).

PERCY, a noble English family of Norman origin, the founder of which accompanied the Conqueror,
and was rewarded with grants of land for his services; a successor of whom in the female line,
Henry, the father of the famous Hotspur, was created Duke of Northumberland in 1377.

PERCY, THOMAS, English prelate and antiquary, born at Bridgenorth, Shropshire, the son of a
grocer; devoted himself to the collection of old ballads, and published in 1765 "Reliques of
Ancient English Poetry"; he published also ballads of his own, among them "The Hermit of Warkworth,"
and was the author of "O Nannie, wilt thou gang wi' me?" he associated with Johnson, Burke,
and other notables of the period, and was a member of Dr. Johnson's Literary Club; became bishop
of Dromore in 1782, where he was held in affectionate regard; was blind for some years before
he died (1729-1811).

PERDICCAS, a favourite general of Alexander the Great, who, when on his deathbed, took his
signet ring off his finger and gave it to him; he became an object of distrust after Alexander's
death, and was assassinated in Egypt.

PEREIRA, JONATHAN, pharmacologist, born in London; author of the "Elements of Materia Medica,"
a standard work; was examiner on the subject in London University (1804-1853).

PEREKOP, ISTHMUS OF, connects the Crimea with the S. of Russia; is pierced by a ship-canal.

PEREZ, ANTONIO, Spanish statesman, and minister of Philippe II., born in Aragon; was the tool
of the king in the murder of Escoveda, the confidant of John of Austria; was convicted of betraying
State secrets and imprisoned, but escaped; being in possession of royal secrets, which he published,
Philippe tried every means to arrest him, but Perez evaded capture, and found refuge in France,
where he died in poverty (1539-1611).

PERFECTIONISM, the doctrine that moral perfection is by divine grace attainable in the present
life.

PERFECTIONISTS, an American sect or society founded by John Humphrey Noyes in 1848 at Oneida,
New York State, on Communistic principles, but owning no law save that of the Spirit, and subject
to no criticism but the judgment they freely passed on one another, a system which they were
obliged to modify in 1880 so far as to recognise the rights of matrimony and the family, and
to adopt the principle of a joint-stock limited liability company, on which lines the community
is proving a prosperous one.

PERGAMOS, the citadel of Troy, a name frequently given by the poets to the city itself.

PERGAMOS, an ancient city of Mysia, in Asia Minor; founded by a colony of Greek emigrants in
3rd century B.C., and eventually the centre of a province of the name, which was subject for
a time to Macedonia, but threw off the yoke and became independent, till it became a Roman
province by bequest on the part of Attalus III. in 133 B.C. The city possessed a library second
only to that of Alexandria, contained one of the seven churches mentioned in the Revelation,
and gave its name to parchment, alleged to have been invented there.

PERI, in the Eastern mythology a fairy being of surpassing beauty, begotten of fallen spirits,
and excluded from Paradise, but represented as leading a life of pleasure and endowed with
immortality; there were male Peris as well as female, and they were intermediate between angels
and demons.

PERIANDER, the tyrant of Corinth from 625 to 585 B.C., was one of the seven sages of Greece,
and a patron of literature and the arts; Arion and Anacharsis lived at his Court.

PERICLES, the great Athenian statesman, born in Athens, of noble parentage; was a devoted disciple
of Anaxagoras; entered public life 467 B.C. as a democrat, and soon became head of the democratic
party, to the increase of the power of the citizens and annihilation of the domination of the
oligarchy centred in the Areopagus; hostile to territorial aggrandisement, he sought, as his
chief ambition, the unification of Greece in one grand confederacy, but was defeated in this
noble aim by the jealousy of Sparta; he put down all rivalry, however, in Athens itself, and
established himself as absolute ruler with the consent of the citizens, reforming the laws,
adorning the city, and encouraging literature and the arts, masters, many wise in the one and
skilful in the other, he had at his disposal, such as few or none of the cities of the world
had ever before or have had since; the resulting prosperity did but enhance the envy of the
other States, Sparta in particular, and two years before he died the spirit of hostility took
shape in the outbreak of the PELOPONNESIAN WAR (q. v.); he had surrounded the city with walls,
and his policy was to defend it from within them rather than face the enemy in the field, but
it proved fatal, for it tended to damp rather than quicken the ardour of the citizens, and
to add to this a plague broke out among them in 430 B.C., which cut down the most valiant of
their number, and he himself lay down to die the year after; he was a high-souled, nobly-bred
man, great in all he thought and did, and he gathered around him nearly all the noble-minded
and noble-hearted men of his time to adorn his reign and make Athens the envy of the world;
d. 429 B.C.

PÉRIER, CASIMIR, a French banker and politician, born at Grenoble; took part in the Revolution
of 1830, became Minister of the Interior in 1831; suppressed the insurrections at Paris and
Lyons; died of cholera (1777-1832).

PERIGEE, the point in the orbit of the moon or a planet nearest the earth.

PÉRIGORD, an ancient territory of France, S. of Guienne, famous for its truffles, of which
PÉRIGUEUX (q. v.) was the capital; united to the Crown of France by Henry IV. in 1589, it is
now part of the department of Dordogne and part of Lot-et-Garonne.

PÉRIGUEUX (31), chief town of the department of Dordogne, France, on the Isle, 95 m. by rail
NE. of Bordeaux, is a narrow irregular town with a cathedral after St. Mark's in Venice, museum
of antiquities, and library; iron and woollens are the industries; truffles and truffle pies
are exported.

PERIHELION, the point on the orbit of a planet or comet nearest the sun.

PERIM, a small barren, crescent-shaped island at the mouth of the Red Sea, belonging to Britain,
and used as a coaling-station.

PERIPATETIC PHILOSOPHY, the name given to the philosophy of Aristotle, from his habit of walking
about with his disciples as he philosophised in the shady walks of the Lyceum.

PERNAMBUCO (130), a seaport in N. Brazil, consists of three portions connected by bridges:
Recife, on a peninsula, the business quarter; San Antonio, the modern quarter, on an intermediate
island; and Bon Vista, on the mainland; manufactures cotton and tobacco, and has shipbuilding
yards; the trade chiefly with England, the United States, and France; it is the capital of
a province (1,100) of the name, producing sugar and cotton.

PERONELLA, in fairy legend a pretty country lass who exchanges places with an old wizened queen,
and receives the homage due to royalty, but gladly takes back her rags and beauty.

PEROWNE, STEWART, Bishop of Worcester, born at Burdwân, of Huguenot extraction, educated at
Cambridge; became a Fellow of Corpus Christi; held several academic and ecclesiastical appointments;
an eminent Hebrew scholar and exegete; his chief work a commentary on the Psalms; b. 1823.

PERPIGNAN (28), a town on the Têt, 7 m. from the sea; a fortress in the French department of
Pyrénées-Orientales; has a cathedral of the 14th century and a bourse in Moorish-Gothic, and
manufactures wine and brandy; belonged originally to Aragon; was taken by France in 1475, and
retaken, after restoration to Spain, in 1642, since which time it has belonged to France.

PERRAULT, CHARLES, French man of letters, born in Paris; bred to the bar; distinguished as
the author of inimitable fairy tales, which have immortalised his name, as "Puss in Boots,"
"Cinderella," "Bluebeard," &c., as also "Parallel des Anciens et des Modernes," in which his
aim was to show--an ill-informed attempt--that the ancients were inferior in everything to
the moderns (1628-1703).

PERSECUTIONS OF THE CHURCH, by which are meant those at the hands of Imperial Rome, are usually
reckoned 10 in number, viz., those under Nero in 64, Domitian 95, Trajan 107, Hadrian 125,
Marcus Aurelius 165, Severus 202, Maximinus 235, Decius 249, Valerianus 257, and Diocletian
303; besides these there were others quite as deadly within the Church itself on the part of
orthodox against heterodox, or Catholic against Protestant, and Established against Nonconformist.

PERSEPHONE, in the Greek mythology the daughter of Zeus and Demeter, the Proserpine of the
Romans. See PROSERPINE.

PERSEPOLIS, the ancient capital of Persia, represented now by its ruins, which stand 25 m.
from the NW. shores of Lake Niris, on the banks of the Murghab River, though in its palmy days
it was described as "the Glory of the East."

PERSEUS, in the Greek mythology the son of Zeus and Danaë, and the grandson of Acrisius, king
of Argos, of whom it was predicted before his birth that he would kill his grandfather, who
at his birth enclosed both his mother and him in a chest and cast it into the sea, which bore
them to an island where they became slaves of the king, Polydectes, who sought to marry Danaë;
failing in his suit, and to compel her to submission, he ordered Perseus off to fetch him the
head of the Medusa; who, aided by Hermes and Athena, was successful in his mission, cut off
the head of the Medusa with the help of a mirror and sickle, brought it away with him in a
pouch, and after delivering and marrying Andromeda in his return journey, exposed the head
before Polydectes and court at a banquet, which turned them all into stone, whereupon he gave
the Gorgon's head to Athena to place on her shield, and set out for Argos; Acrisius hearing
of his approach fled, but was afterwards killed accidentally by his grandson, who in throwing
a discus had crushed his foot.

PERSIA (7,000), occupies the tableland 5000 ft. high between the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea
on the S., the Caspian Sea and Turkestan on the N., Armenia on the W., and Afghanistan and
Beluchistan on the E., and is a country three times as large as France; lofty mountain ranges
traverse it from NW. to SE. and gird its northern boundary; the highest peak is Mount Demavend,
18,500 ft., in the Elburz, overlooking the Caspian. Most of the rivers evaporate inland; only
one is navigable, the Karun, in the SW.; Lake Urumiyah, in the NW., is the largest, a very
salt and shallow sheet of water. The eastern half of the country is largely desert, where the
sand is swept about in clouds by the winds. With little rain, the climate is intensely hot
in summer and cold in winter. Forests clothe the outer slopes of the mountains, and scanty
brushwood the inner plains. Wheat and barley are grown on higher levels, and cotton, sugar,
and fruits on the lower, all with the help of Irrigation. Agriculture is the chief industry;
there are manufactures of carpets, shawls, and porcelain. The internal trade is carried on
by caravans; foreign trade is not extensive, and is chiefly in Russian hands; the exports include
opium, carpets, pearls, and turquoises. The capital is Teheran (210), a narrow, crooked, filthy
town, at the southern foot of the Elburz. Tabriz (180), in the NW., is the emporium of trade.
Ispahân (60), Meshed (60), Barfurush (60), and Shiraz (30) are the other important towns. The
Government is despotic; the emperor is called the Shah. The people are courteous and refined
in manner, witty, and fluent in speech; they are of Aryan stock and Mohammedan faith. The original
empire of Persia was established by Cyrus 537 B.C. A century later decay set in. Revival under
Parthian and Sassanian dynasties lasted from 138 B.C. till A.D. 639. Persia became then a province
of the Arabs. From the 14th century it fell under Mongol sway, and again in the 16th century
under Turkish. The present dynasty was founded in 1795. The future of the country is in Russian
and British hands.

PERSIAN GULF, a great inland sea lying between Arabia and Persia, and entered from the Indian
Ocean through the Gulf of Oman; is 650 m. long and from 50 to 250 m. broad. The Arabian coast
is low and sandy, the Persian high. The chief islands are in the W., where also is the Great
Pearl Bank. The only river of importance received is the Shat-el-Arab, which brings down the
waters of the Euphrates and the Tigris.

PERSIAN WARS, wars conducted by Persia in the three expeditions against Greece, first in 490
B.C. under Darius, and defeated by the Athenians under Miltiades at Marathon; the second, 480
B.C., under Xerxes, opposed by Leonidas and his 300 Spartans at Thermopylæ and defeated by
the Athenians under Themistocles at Salamis by sea; and the third, in 479 B.C., under Xerxes,
by the Greeks under the Spartan Pausanius at Platæa.

PERSIANS, a name given to sculptured draped male figures used as columns.

PERSIANS, THE, belonged to the Aryan race, hence Iran, the original name of their country;
they were related rather to the Western than the Eastern world, and it is from them that continuous
history takes its start; they first recognised an ethereal essence, which they called Light,
as the principle of all good, and man as related to it in such a way that, by the worship of
it, he became assimilated to it himself. Among them first the individual subject stood face
to face with a universal object, and claimed a kinship with it as the light of life. The epoch
thus created was the emancipation of the human being from dependent childhood to self-dependent
manhood, and it constituted the first epoch in the self-conscious history, which is the history
proper, of the human race. The idea the Persians formed of the principle of good came far short
of the reality indeed, but they first saw that it was of purely illuminating quality and universal,
and that the destiny of man was to relate himself to it, to know, worship, and obey it. With
the ethereal principle of good they associated an equally ethereal principle of evil, and,
as they identified the one with light, they identified the other with darkness. Man they regarded
as related to both, and his destiny to adore the one and disown the other as master. As the
light had no portion in the darkness, and the darkness no portion in the light, the religion
arose which pervades that of the Bible, which requires the children of the former to separate
from those of the latter.

PERSIFLAGE, a French term for a light, quizzing mockery, or scoffing, specially on serious
subjects, out of a cool, callous contempt for them.

PERSIGNY, FIALIN, DUC DE, a French statesman, a supporter all along of Louis Napoleon, abetting
him in all his efforts to attain the throne of France, from the affair of Strasburg in 1836
to the coup d'état of December 1851, and becoming in the end Minister of the Interior under
him; had to leave France at his fall (1806-1872).

PERSIUS, the last king of Macedonia; was conquered by Paulus Æmilius, and died captive at Rome
167 B.C.

PERSIUS, Roman satirist, born in Etruria, was a pupil and friend of Cornutus the Stoic; a man
much esteemed, who died young, only 28; wrote six short satires in the purity of a white-souled
manhood, of much native vigour, though not equal to those of Horace and Juvenal, and that have
commanded the regard of all scholars down to the present time; they have often been translated
(34-62).

PERTH (30), the county-town of Perthshire, on the Tay, 22 m. W. of Dundee: is a beautifully
situated town, with fine buildings, the only old one being the restored St. John's Church.
Its industries are dyeing and ink-making. At Scone, 2 m. distant, the kings of Scotland were
crowned; and the murder of James I., the Gowrie conspiracy, and the battle of Tippermuir are
but a few of its many historical associations. "The Five Articles of Perth," adopted by a General
Assembly held there in 1618, did much to precipitate the conflict between the Royal power and
the Scottish Church; they enjoined kneeling at the Lord's Supper, observance of Christmas,
Good Friday, Easter, and Pentecost, confirmation, and the private administration of the sacraments.

PERTH (8), the capital of West Australia, on the Swan River.

PERTHSHIRE (122), the most beautiful and varied county in Scotland, occupies the whole of the
Tay Valley and part of the Forth, and is bounded by nine other counties. The N. and W. are
mountainous, with many rivers and lakes, and much of the finest scenery in Scotland; the Trossachs
and Loch Katrine are world famed. In the E. is extensive woodland and the Carse of Gowrie,
one of the most fertile of Scottish plains. Ben Lawers is the highest mountain, Loch Tay the
largest lake. Much of the soil is good only for sheep farms, deer forests, and grouse moors;
the county is visited annually by thousands of tourists and sportsmen.

PERTINAX, HELVIUS, Roman emperor in succession to Commodus; rose from the ranks by his military
services to the imperial dignity, which he was pressed to accept against his will, and was
assassinated by the Prætorian Guards less than three months after, in consequence of the reforms
he projected in order to restore the ancient discipline of the army (126-193).

PERTURBATIONS, name given to irregularities or slight deviations in the movement of a heavenly
body, due chiefly to the neighbourhood of another point in its orbit.

PERU (3,000), a country in the W. of South America, twice the size of Austro-Hungary, lies
between Brazil and Bolivia and the Pacific, with Ecuador on the N. and Chile on the S.; it
consists of a seaboard plain, hot and rainless, but intersected by rich river courses, in which
sugar, cotton, and coffee are grown; the Andes chains, snow-tipped and presenting every kind
of climate and variety of vegetation on their slopes and in their valleys, rich in minerals
and yielding chiefly great quantities of silver; and the Montana, the eastward slopes of the
Andes, clad with valuable forests where the cinchona is cultivated, and the upland basins of
the Ucayalé River and the Upper Amazon, very fertile, with great coffee and cacao plantations
and abundant rain; the chief articles of export are silver, nitre, guano, sugar, and wool.
Lima (200), the capital, is 8 m. inland from its port Callao (35); has an old cathedral, and
is the chief centre of commerce; its principal merchants are Germans. The government is republican;
the ruling classes are of Spanish descent, but half of the population are Inca Indians and
a quarter are half-castes. From the 12th to the 16th centuries the Incas enjoyed a high state
of civilisation and an extensive empire administered on socialistic principles; they attained
great skill in the industries and arts. The Spanish conqueror Pizarro, landing in 1532, overthrew
the empire and established the colony; after three centuries of oppression Peru threw off the
Spanish yoke in 1824. The history of the republic has been one of continual restlessness, and
a war with Chile 1879-84 ended in complete disaster; recovery is slowly progressing.

PERUGIA (17), Italian walled city on the right bank of the Tiber, 127 m. by rail N. of Rome,
with a cathedral of the 15th century, some noteworthy churches, a Gothic municipal palace,
picture gallery, university, and library; is rich in art treasures and antiquarian remains;
it has silk and woollen industries; it was anciently called Perusia, and one of the cities
of ancient Etruria, and in its day has experienced very varied fortunes; it was the centre
of the Umbrian school of painting.

PERUGINO, his proper name VANNUCCI, Italian painter, born near Perugia, whence his name; studied
with Leonardo da Vinci at Florence, where he chiefly resided; was one of the teachers of Raphael,
painted religious subjects, did frescoes for churches that have nearly all perished, a "Christ
giving the Keys to Peter" being the best extant; Ruskin contrasts his work with Turner's; "in
Turner's distinctive work," he says, "colour is scarcely acknowledged unless under influence
of sunshine ... wherever the sun is not, there is melancholy and evil," but "in Perugino's
distinctive work"--to whom he therefore gives "the captain's place over all"--"there is simply
no darkness, no wrong. Every colour is lovely and every space is light; the world, the universe,
is divine; all sadness is a part of harmony, and all gloom a part of light" (1446-1524).

PESCHIERA, one of the fortresses of the QUADRILATERAL (q. v.), on an island in the Mincio,
14 m. W. of Verona.

PESHAWAR or PESHAWUR (84), a town on the Indian frontier, and centre of trade with Afghanistan,
is 10 m. from the entrance of the Khyber Pass, on the Kabul River, and though ill-fortified
is a bulwark of the empire, being provided with a large garrison of infantry and artillery.

PESHITO (i. e. simple), a version of the Bible in Syriac, executed not later than the middle
of the 2nd century for Judaic Christians in the Syrian Church, the version of the Old Testament
being executed direct from the Hebrew and that of the New being the first translation of the
Greek of it into a foreign tongue, and both of value in questions affecting exegesis and the
original text; the New Testament version contains all the books now included except the Apocalypse,
Jude, 2 Peter, and 2 and 3 John.

PESSIMISM, a name given now to a habit of feeling, now to a system of opinion; as the former
it denotes a tendency to dwell on the dark or gloomy side of things, culminating in a sense
of their vanity and nothingness, while in the latter it is applied to all systems of opinion
which lay the finger on some black spot in the structure of the life of the world or of the
universe, which so long as it remains is thought to render it unworthy of existence.

PESTALOZZI, JOHANN HEINRICH, a celebrated educationist, born at Zurich; founder of a natural
system of education, beginning with childhood, and who, however unsuccessful in the working
of it himself from his want of administrative faculty, persuaded others by his writings to
adopt it, especially in Germany, and to adopt it both enthusiastically and successfully; his
method, which he derived from Rousseau, was based on the study of human nature as we find it
born in the child, and it aimed at the harmonious development of all its innate capabilities,
beginning with the most rudimentary (1745-1827).

PESTH or BUDAPEST (492), on the left bank of the Danube, forming one municipality with Buda
on the right, is the capital of Hungary, and 173 m. by rail E. of Vienna; Pesth is built on
a plain, joined to Buda by three bridges, the last on the Danube, and is a thriving modern
city, with picture galleries, parliament house, library, university, science schools, many
baths, and public gardens; it makes machinery, agricultural implements, cutlery, flour, &c.,
and does a great trade in corn, wool, hides, wines, and bacon.

PETALISM, banishment in Sparta similar to ostracism in Athens, procured by writing the name
on an olive leaf.

PETARD, a cone-shaped explosive machine for bursting open gates, barriers, &c., made of iron
and filled with powder and ball.

PETASUS, the winged-cap of the god Mercury.

PETCHORA, the largest river in Northern Russia, rises in the Ural Mountains and flows N. through
Vologda and Archangel, then westward and N. again, entering the Arctic Ocean by a large, island-studded
estuary, after a course of 1000 m. through sombre forests and wild, sombre scenery.

PETER, THE APOSTLE, originally called Simon, was a fisherman on the Sea of Galilee; one of
the first called by Christ to become a disciple; the first to recognise, as the foundation-stone
of the Church, the divinity in the humanity of His Master, and the first thereafter to recognise
and proclaim that divinity as glorified in the cross, to whom in recognising which, especially
the former, was committed the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and who accordingly was the first
to open the door of it to the Gentile world. He was the principal figure in the history of
the early Christian Church, but was soon eclipsed by the overpowering presence and zeal of
Paul. Tradition, indeed, has something to tell of him, but from it little of trustworthy can
be gathered except that he finished his career by martyrdom in the city of Rome. This Apostle
is represented in Christian art as an old man, bald-headed, with a flowing beard, dressed in
a white mantle, and holding a scroll in his hand, his attributes being the keys, and a sword
in symbol of his martyrdom.

PETER, THE FIRST EPISTLE OF, addressed especially to Jewish Christians in certain churches
of Asia Minor, the members of which were suffering persecution at the hands of their adversaries
as evil-doers; was written to exhort them to rebut the charge by a life of simple well-doing,
and to comfort them under it with the promise of the return of the Lord.

PETER, THE SECOND EPISTLE OF, addressed to all who anywhere bore the Christian name; appears
to have been written not long before his death to counteract certain fatal forms of error,
at once doctrinal and practical, that had already begun to creep into the Church, and against
which we meet with the same warnings in the Epistle of Jude, the doctrinal error being the
denial of Christ as Lord, and the practical the denial of Him as the way, the truth, and the
life, to the peril of the forfeiture of eternal life.

PETER, THE WILD BOY, a savage creature of 13 years of age, found in 1725 in a forest of Hanover,
who was accustomed to walk on all fours, and climb trees like a squirrel, living on wild plants,
grass, and moss, and who could not be weaned from these habits, or taught to speak more than
a syllable or two; he wore a brass collar with his name on it; at length refused all food,
and died in 1786.

PETER MARTYR, 1, a Dominican notorious for his severity as a member of the Inquisition, murdered
by a mob at Como in 1252, became the patron saint of the Inquisition. 2, A Protestant reformer,
born at Florence, became a monk and abbot at Lucca, from which, on embracing the doctrines
of the Reformation, he was forced to flee, first to Switzerland and then to England in the
reign of Edward VI., but had to retreat from thence also on the accession of Mary to Strasburg,
and at length to Zurich, where he died (1500-1562). 3, A historian, born at Arona, rose to
become bishop of Jamaica, wrote on the discovery of America, d. 1525.

PETER THE GREAT, emperor of Russia, son of the Czar Alexei, born at Moscow; succeeded his half-brother
Feodor in 1682, but was forced for a time to share the throne with his half-sister Sophia,
acting as regent for her brother Ivan; conscious of his imperfect education, he chose a Genoese
named Lefort as his preceptor, and after some years' careful training he deposed Sophia, and
entered Moscow as sole ruler in 1689; with the help of Lefort and Patrick Gordon, a Scotsman,
he proceeded to raise and discipline an army on the European model, and determined also to
construct a navy; to reach the sea he made war on the Turks, and possessed himself of the port
of Azov, at the mouth of the Don; hither he invited skilled artificers from Austria, Venice,
Prussia, and Holland, and a navy was built; from 1697 to 1698 he visited the countries on the
Baltic and England, acquiring vast stores of information, working as a shipwright in the Dutch
yards, and finally taking back with him an army of mechanics; on his return he vigorously reformed
the Russian press, schools, and church, introduced European manners and literature, and encouraged
foreign trade; desirous now of an opening on the Baltic, he began in 1700 a long contest with
Sweden, marked first by many defeats, notably that of Narva, then the seizure of Ingria, and
founding of the new capital St. Petersburg 1703, the victory of Pultowa 1712, seizure of the
Baltic provinces and part of Finland 1713, and finally by the Peace of 1721, which ceded the
conquered territories to Russia; in 1711 the Turks had recovered Azov; in 1722 war with Persia
secured him three Caspian provinces; Peter pursued a vigorous and enlightened policy for the
good of Russia, but his disposition was often cruel; his son Alexei was put to death for opposing
his reforms, and on his own death he was succeeded by the Empress Catherine I., the daughter
of a peasant, who had been his mistress, and whom he had married in 1712 (1672-1725).

PETER THE HERMIT, a monk, born in Amiens, of good family, who is credited with having by his
preaching kindled the enthusiasm in Europe which led to the first Crusade; he joined it himself
as the leader of an untrained rabble, but made a poor figure at the siege of Antioch, where
he was with difficulty prevented from deserting the camp; he afterwards founded a monastery
near Liège, where he died (1050-1115).

PETERBOROUGH (25), an English cathedral city, on the Nen, partly in Huntingdonshire and partly
in Northamptonshire, on the edge of the Fen country, 76 m. N. of London; has an old town-hall,
manufactures of farm implements, trade in malt and coal, and is a great railway centre; the
cathedral is one of the finest in Britain, of very varied architecture, was restored and reopened
afterwards in 1890.

PETERBOROUGH, CHARLES MORDAUNT, EARL OF, saw some active service as a volunteer in Charles
II.'s navy, and on the accession of James II. threw himself into politics as an opponent of
the king; William III. showed him great favour; he was of the Queen's Council of Regency when
William was in Ireland, but imprudent intriguing brought him a short confinement in the Tower
in 1697; the war of the Spanish Succession was the opportunity which brought him fame; appointed
to the command of the British and Dutch forces, which fought for Charles of Austria, he reduced
Barcelona 1705, and Valencia 1706; retook Barcelona from the French, and but for Charles's
hindrance would have entered Madrid; differences with other generals led to his recall in 1707;
the rest of his life was spent in retirement; he was the friend of Pope, and held by him in
genuine esteem; he died in Lisbon (1658-1735).

PETERHEAD (12), a seaport on the E. coast of Aberdeenshire, 30 m. NE. of Aberdeen; built irregularly
of reddish granite; has a free library and museum, and is the seat of a convict prison; the
chief industry is herring-fishing; there are two harbours, and a third, a great harbour of
refuge, is in course of construction.

PETERHOF (14), a town on the Gulf of Finland, 18 m. W. of St. Petersburg, with a palace of
the Czar built in 1711 by Peter the Great.

PETERLOO, a name, suggested by Waterloo, given to an insurrectionary gathering in 1819 of workers
in St. Peter's Field, Manchester, to demand Parliamentary reform, and which was dispersed by
the military to the sacrifice of 13 lives and the wounding of 600, a proceeding which excited
wide-spread indignation, and contributed to promote the cause which it was intended to defeat.

PETER'S, ST., church at Rome, is built, it is alleged, over the tomb of St. Peter, and on the
site of the basilica erected by Constantine and Helena in 306. The original structure after
falling into decay was begun to be rebuilt in 1450, and finally consecrated by Urban XIII.
in 1626. It is the largest and grandest church in Christendom, covers an area of over 26,000
square yards, the interior of it in length being 206 yards, the transept 150 yards, the nave
150, and the dome 465. It contains thirty altars, and is adorned with numerous statues and
monuments.

PETER'S PENCE, an annual tribute of a silver penny per household in England to support the
chair of St. Peter at Rome, and which continued more or less to be levied from the end of the
8th century till the days of Elizabeth, when it ceased. The payment has been revived since
1848 in Britain, France, and Belgium in compensation to the Pope for loss of his territorial
possessions.

PETERWARDEIN (4), a strong Austrian fortress on the right bank of the Danube, near the Servian
frontier, 40 m. NW. of Belgrade; stands among unhealthy marshes.

PÉTION DE VILLENEUVE, JÉRÔME, born at Chartres; figured in the French Revolution as a zealous
republican, member of the Tiers État, one of the commission to reconduct the royal family from
Varennes; was mayor of Paris in the year of the September massacres, 1792; was first President
of the Convention, and, though his influence was declining, member of the first Committee of
Defence, 1793; his attack on Robespierre proving unsuccessful he committed suicide; his body
was afterwards found on the Landes of Bordeaux half devoured by wolves; was surnamed the "Virtuous,"
as Robespierre the "Incorruptible"; was of the Girondist party; had "unalterable beliefs, not
hindmost of them," says Carlyle, "belief in himself" (1783-1793).

PETITE NATURE, a French term applied to pictures containing figures less than life-size, but
with the effect of life-size.

PETITION OF RIGHT, a petition presented to Charles I. by the Commons in 1628, and that became
law by the king's acceptance of it. It sought for and obtained the abolition of certain grievances
which the country unconstitutionally suffered from, such as taxation or levying of money without
consent of Parliament, imprisonment without cause shown, billeting of troops, and recourse
to martial law in a time of peace. This petition Charles I. would at first fain have evaded,
but the Commons would be satisfied with nothing less than its acceptance entire.

PETÖFI, SANDOR, celebrated Magyar poet and patriot, born in the county of Pesth, of poor parents;
first announced himself as a poet in 1844; wrote a number of war-songs; fought in the cause
of the revolution of 1848, and fell in the battle of Schässburg; his poetry inaugurated a new
era in the literature of his country (1823-1849).

PETRA, a ruined city, and once the rock capital of Edom, and afterwards of Arabia Petræa; was
a place of some importance at one time as a commercial centre; the name Petra signifies rock.

PETRARCH, FRANCESCO, the famous Italian lyric poet, born at Arezzo, in Tuscany, whither his
father had gone when exiled with Dante from Florence; spent his youth in Avignon; intended
for the profession of law, devoted his time to the study of Cicero and Virgil; met Laura in
the church of St. Clare there in 1327, a lady of surpassing beauty; conceived a passion for
her which she could not return, and wrote sonnets in praise of her, which immortalised both
himself and her; after travel in France and Germany he retired in 1337 to the valley of Vaucluse,
where he composed the most of his poems, and his reputation reached its height in 1341, when
he was crowned laureate in the Capitol of Rome; he was in Italy when tidings reached him of
the death of Laura in 1348, on the anniversary of the day when he first met her, upon which
he gave expression to his feelings over the event in a touching note of it in his Virgil; we
find him again at Rome in 1350, and after moving from place to place settled in Arqua in 1370,
where he died; his Latin works are numerous, and include an epic on the Second Punic war, Eclogues,
Epistles in verse, and Letters of value giving the details of his life; his fame rests on his
lyrics; by those alone he still lives, and that more from the finished art in which they are
written than from any glow of feeling they kindle in the reader's heart (1304-1374).

PETRI, LAURENTIUS, a Swedish Reformer; was a disciple of Luther; became professor of Theology
and first Protestant archbishop of Upsala, and superintended the translation of the Bible into
Swedish (1499-1573).

PETRIE, FLINDERS, Egyptologist, son of an Australian explorer; after explorations at Stonehenge,
surveyed the pyramids and temples of Ghizeh in 1881-82; excavated for the Egyptian Exploration
Fund Nankratis, Am, and Defenneh; has achieved many other important works of the kind, and
issued a popular work, "Ten Years' Diggings in Egypt"; b. 1853.

PETRIE, GEORGE, Irish archæologist, born in Dublin, of Scottish parentage; bred to art; executed
Irish landscapes, but is best known for his "Essay on the Round Towers of Ireland," a work
of no small interest (1790-1866).

PETROLEUM, is the common name of a series of rock oils found in large quantities in the United
States and Canada, near Rangoon, and in the neighbourhood of the Caspian Sea. The oil issues
from the rocks, or is drawn from subterranean reservoirs, where its presence is supposed to
result from natural distillation of vegetable and animal substances, and after refining, put
in the market as benzoline, paraffin, and lubricating oil. It is extensively used in the industries,
and has been applied as fuel to steamships.

PÉTROLEUSE, was a name given to certain Parisian women of the Commune of 1871, who poured petroleum
on the Hôtel de Ville and other buildings to burn them.

PETRONIUS, a Roman satirist and accomplished voluptuary at the court of Nero, and the director-in-chief
of the imperial pleasures; accused of treason, and dreading death at the hands of the emperor
his master, he opened his veins, and by bandaging them bled slowly to death, showing the while
the same frivolity as throughout his life; he left behind him a work, extant now only in fragments,
but enough to expose the abyss of profligacy in which the Roman world was then sunk at that
crisis of its fate; d. 63.

PETTIE, JOHN, painter, born at Edinburgh; his works, chiefly historical, were numerous, and
of a high character (1839-1893).

PETTY, SIR WILLIAM, political economist, born in Hampshire; was a man of versatile genius,
varied attainments, and untiring energy; was skilled in medicine, in music, in mechanics, and
in engineering, as well as economics, to which especially he contributed by his pen (1623-1687).

PETTY JURY, a jury of 12 elected to try a criminal case after a true bill against the accused
has been found by a Grand Jury.

PETTY OFFICERS, officers in the navy, consisting of four grades, and corresponding in function
and responsibility to non-commissioned officers in the army.

PETTY SESSIONS, name given to sessions of justices of the peace to try small cases without a jury.

PEUTINGER, CONRAD, an Augsburg antiquary, left at his death a 13th-century copy of a 3rd-century
map of the Roman military roads, now in the Imperial Library at Vienna, known as the "Tabula
Peutingeriana" (1465-1547).

PFÄFERS, hot springs near a village of the same name in the Swiss canton of St. Gall; have
been in use for 800 years.

PFAHLBAUTEN, lake dwellings of prehistoric date in Switzerland.

PFALZ, the German name for the Palatinate.

PFEIFFER, IDA, a celebrated traveller, born in Vienna; being separated from her husband, and
having completed the education of her two sons and settled them in life, commenced her career
of travel in 1842, in which year she visited Palestine, in 1845 visited Scandinavia, in 1846
essayed a voyage round the world by Cape Horn, in 1851 a second by the Cape of Good Hope, and
in 1856 an expedition to Madagascar, returning at the end of each to Vienna and publishing
accounts of them (1797-1858).

PFFLEIDERER, OTTO, a philosophical theologian, born in Würtemberg, professor at Jena, and afterwards
at Berlin; has written on religion, the philosophy of it and sundry developments of it, in
an able manner, as well as lectured on it in Edinburgh in connection with the Gifford trust,
on which occasion he was bold enough to overstep the limits respected by previous lecturers
between natural and revealed religion, to the inclusion of the latter within his range; b. 1830.

PFORZHEIM (29), manufacturing town in Baden, in the N. of the Black Forest; manufactures gold
and silver ornaments, and has chemical and other factories.

PHÆDRUS, a Latin fabulist, of the age of Augustus, born in Macedonia, and settled in Rome;
originally a slave, was manumitted by Augustus; his fables, 97 in number, were written in verse,
and are mostly translations from Æsop, the best of them such as keep closely to the original.

PHAËTHON (i. e. the shining one, and so called from his father), the son of HELIOS (q. v.);
persuaded his father to allow him for one day to drive the chariot of the sun across the heavens,
but was too weak to check the horses, so that they rushed off their wonted track and nearly
set the world on fire, whereupon Zeus transfixed him with a thunderbolt, metamorphosed his
sisters who had yoked the horses for him into poplars and their tears into amber.

PHALANSTERY, a body of people living together on the Communistic principle of Fourier; also
the building they occupy.

PHALANX, among the Greeks a body of heavy infantry armed with long spears and short swords,
standing in line close behind one another, generally 8 men deep, the Macedonian being as much
as 16; its movements were too heavy, and it was dashed in pieces before the legions of Rome
to its extinction; it was superseded by the Roman legion.

PHALARIS, a tyrant of Agrigentum, in Sicily, in the 6th century, who is said, among other cruelties,
to have roasted the victims of his tyranny in a brazen bull which bears his name; the "Letters
of Phalaris," at one time ascribed to him, have been proved to be spurious.

PHALLUS, a symbol of the generative power of nature, being a representation of the male organ
of generation, and associated with rites and ceremonies of nature-worship in the early stages
of civilised life, and the worship of which was supposed to have a magic influence in inducing
fertility among the flocks and herds, as well as in the soil of the earth.

PHARAMOND, a Knight of the Round Table, and the reputed first king of the Franks.

PHARAOH, a name, now proper, now common, given in the Old Testament to the kings of Egypt,
identified with that of the sun-god Phra, and applied to the king as his representative on
earth; some 10 of the name occur in the Bible, and it is matter of difficulty often to distinguish
one from another.

PHARISEES (i. e. Separatists), a sect of the Jews who adopted or received this name because
of the attitude of isolation from the rest of the nation which they were compelled to assume
at the time of their origin. This was some time between the years 165 and 105 B.C., on their
discovery that the later Maccabæan chiefs were aiming at more than religious liberty, and in
their own interests contemplating the erection of a worldly kingdom that would be the death
of the theocratic, which it was the purpose of Providence they should establish; this was the
separate ground which they at first assumed alone, but they in the end carried the great body
of the nation along with them. They were scrupulously exact in their interpretation and observance
of the Jewish law as the rule to regulate the life of the Jewish community in every department,
and were the representatives of that legal tendency which gave character to the development
of Judaism proper during the period which elapsed between the date of the Captivity and the
advent of Christianity. The law they observed, however, was not the written law as it stood,
but that law as expounded by the oral law of the Scribes, as the sole key to its interpretation,
so that their attitude to the Law of Moses was pretty much the same as that of the Roman Catholics
and the High Churchmen in relation to the Scriptures generally, and they were thus at length
the representatives of clericalism as well as legalism in the Jewish Church, and in doing so
they took their ground upon a principle which is the distinctive article of orthodox Judaism
in the matter to the present day. In the days of Christ they stood in marked opposition to
the SADDUCEES (q. v.) both in their dogmatic views and their political principles. As against
them, on the dogmatic side, they believed in a spiritual world and in an established moral
order, and on the political their rule was to abstain from politics, except in so far as they
might injuriously affect the life and interests of the nation; but at that time they had degenerated
into mere formalists, whose religion was a conspicuous hypocrisy, and it was on this account
and their pretensions to superior sanctity that they incurred the indignation and exposed themselves
to the condemnation of Christ.

PHAROS, an island of ancient Egypt, near Alexandria, on which the first lighthouse was erected
by Ptolemy Philadelphus in 48 B.C.

PHARSALIA, a district in the N. of Greece, the southern portion of the modern province of Larissa;
was the scene of Cæsar's victory over Pompey, 48 B.C.

PHELPS, ELIZABETH STUART, American authoress, born at Andover; wrote "Gates Ajar" and other
popular stories, is a great advocate, by lecturing and otherwise, for social reform and the
emancipation of women; b. 1844.

PHELPS, SAMUEL, an English actor, born in Devonport; made his début as Shylock in London at
the Haymarket in 1837, achieved his greatest successes in Sadler's Wells by his representation
of Shakespeare's plays and the works of eminent dramatists of the 18th century; was distinguished
in comedy as well as tragedy, in which last he primarily appeared and established his fame
(1804-1878).

PHERECYDES, an ancient Greek philosopher, born in Syros in 6th century B.C.; distinguished
as having had Pythagoras among his pupils, and believed to have been the author of many of
the doctrines promulgated by his disciple and named Pythagorean.

PHIDIAS, the greatest sculptor and statuary of ancient Greece, born at Athens; flourished in
the time of Pericles, and was appointed by him to direct the works of art projected to the
beautifying of the city, and expressly commissioned to execute certain of these works himself;
the chief work that he superintended was the erection of the Parthenon, much of which he himself
adorned; and of the statues he executed the most famous were one of Athena of ivory and gold
for the Parthenon, and a colossal one of Zeus, his masterpiece, also of ivory and gold, for
Olympia; accused of having appropriated some of the gold intended for the statue of Athena
he was acquitted, but was afterwards charged with impiety for carving his own likeness and
that of Pericles on the shield of the goddess, and was thrown into prison, where he died, 432 B.C.

PHILADELPHIA (1,293), largest city in Pennsylvania, on the Delaware, 100 m. from the sea and
90 m. by rail SW. of New York; is the third city in the Union in population, manufactures,
and commerce, regularly built with plain substantial dwelling-houses; recently more splendid
public buildings have been erected, the town-hall, of white marble, is the second highest structure
in the world; a masonic temple and Government offices of granite and the Mint are also fine
buildings; there is a university and colleges of science, medicine, art, and music, many churches,
a Roman Catholic cathedral, and many hospitals and charitable institutions; the industries
include locomotive building, saw-making, woollen and cotton goods, sugar and oil refining,
and chemical works; it trades largely in coal. Founded by William Penn in 1682, it was the
central point of the War of Independence; the first Congress met here, and the Declaration
of Independence was signed (1776) in a building still standing; here too the Federal Union
was signed (1778) and the constitution drawn up (1787), and from 1790 to 1800 it was the capital
of the United States.

PHILADOR, FRANÇOIS ANDRÉ, a celebrated composer and chess-player, born at Dreux; wrote a number
of operas; in regard to chess his great maxim was "Pawns are the soul of chess"; fled at the
time of the Revolution to London, where he died (1726-1795).

PHILÆ, an island of syenite stone in the Nile, near Assouan, in Nubia, 1200 ft. long and 50
ft. broad; is almost covered with ancient buildings of great beauty, among which is a temple
of Isis, with a great gateway dating from 361 B.C., which was converted into a church in 577.

PHILATORY, a transparent reliquary to contain and exhibit the bones and relics of saints.

PHILEMON, EPISTLE TO, a short letter by Paul to a member of the Church at Colossæ on behalf
of a slave, Onesimus, who had deserted his service, gone off with some of his property, and
taken refuge in Rome, but had been converted to Christ, and whom he begs not to manumit, but
simply to receive back as a brother for his sake.

PHILEMON AND BAUCIS, in the Greek mythology a pair of poor people who, in fond attachment to
each other, lived in a small cottage in Phrygia by themselves and gave hospitality to gods
in disguise when every other door was shut against them, and to whom, in the judgment that
descended upon their inhospitable neighbours, the gods were propitious, and did honour by appointing
them to priesthood, when they would rather have been servants, in a temple metamorphosed out
of their cottage. Here they continued to minister to old age, and had but one prayer for themselves,
that they might in the end die together; when as they sat at the door of the temple one day,
bent with years, they were changed, he into an oak and she into a linden. This is Ovid's version
of the story, to which he adds as the moral of it, "Those who piously honour the gods are themselves
held in honour."

PHILIP, an Indian chief whose father had been a staunch friend of the Pilgrim settlers, was
himself friendly to the colonists, till in 1671 their encroachments provoked him to retaliation;
after six years' fighting, in which many colonists perished and great massacres of Indians
took place, he was defeated and slain, 1676.

PHILIP OF MACEDON, the father of Alexander the Great, usurped the kingdom from the infant king
Amyntas, his nephew and ward, in 360 B.C.; having secured his throne, he entered on a series
of aggressive wars, making expeditions into Thrace and Thessaly; the siege of Olynthus brought
him into conflict with Athens, the two cities being allies, and occasioned some of the most
brilliant orations of Demosthenes; the successive appeals for his aid against their enemies
by the Thebans and the Argives led him into Greece and into the Peloponnesus; in 339 B.C. a
council of Greek cities appointed him commander-in-chief of their leagued forces in a projected
war against the Locrians, but the Athenians and Thebans opposed his coming; the defeat of their
armies at Chæronea, 338 B.C., placed all Greece at his feet; his next project was an expedition
against Persia, but while preparations were on foot he was assassinated at Ægæ; a man of unbridled
lust, he was an astute and unscrupulous politician, but of incomparable eloquence, energy,
and military skill (382-336 B.C.).

PHILIP II., Philip-Augustus, king of France, shared the throne with his father, Louis VII.,
from 1179, and succeeded him as sole ruler in 1180; marrying Isabella of Hainault, he united
the Capet and Carlovingian houses; his grand aim was to secure to himself some of the English
possessions in France; his alliance with Richard of England in the third crusade ended in a
quarrel; returning to France he broke his oath to Richard by bargaining with John for portions
of the coveted territory; an exhausting war lasted till 1119; on Richard's death Philip supported
Arthur against John in his claim to Anjou, Maine, and Touraine; after Arthur's murder, the
capture of Château Gaillard in 1204 gave him possession of these three provinces with Normandy
and part of Poitou; the victory of Bouvines 1214 secured his throne, and the rest of his reign
was spent in internal reforms and the beautifying of Paris (1165-1223).

PHILIP IV., the Fair, king of France, succeeded his father Philip III. in 1285; by his marriage
with Joanna of Navarre added Navarre, Champagne, and Brie to his realm; but the sturdy valour
of the Flemish burghers at Courtrai on the "Day of Spurs" prevented the annexation of Flanders;
his fame rests on his struggle and victory over the papal power; a tax on the clergy was condemned
by Boniface VIII. in 1296; supported by his nobles and burghers Philip burnt the papal bull,
imprisoned the legate, and his ambassador in Rome imprisoned the Pope himself; Boniface died
soon after, and in 1305 Philip made Clement V. Pope; kept him at Avignon, and so commenced
the seventy years' "captivity"; he forced Clement to decree the suppression of the Templars,
and became his willing instrument in executing the decree; he died at Fontainebleau, having
proved himself an avaricious and pitiless despot (1268-1314).

PHILIP VI., of Valois, king of France, succeeded Charles IV. in 1328; Edward III. of England
contested his claim, contending that the Salic law, though it excluded females, did not exclude
their male heirs; Edward was son of a daughter, Philip son of a brother, of Philip IV.; thus
began the Hundred Years' War between France and England, 1337; the French fleet was defeated
off Sluys in 1340, and the army at Crécy in 1346; a truce was made, when the war was followed
by the Black Death; the worthless king afterwards purchased Majorca (1293-1350).

PHILIP II., king of Spain, only son of the Emperor Charles V.; married Mary Tudor in 1554,
and spent over a year in England; in 1555 he succeeded his father in the sovereignty of Spain,
Sicily, Milan, the Netherlands, Franche-Comté, Mexico, and Peru; a league between Henry II.
of France and the Pope was overthrown, and on the death of Mary he married the French princess
Isabella, and retired to live in Spain, 1559. Wedding himself now to the cause of the Church,
he encouraged the Inquisition in Spain, and introduced it to the Netherlands; the latter revolted,
and the Seven United Provinces achieved their independence after a long struggle in 1579; his
great effort to overthrow Protestant England ended in the disaster of the Armada, 1588; his
last years were embittered by the failure of his intrigues against Navarre, raids of English
seamen on his American provinces, and by loathsome disease; he was a bigot in religion, a hard,
unloved, and unloving man, and a foolish king; he fatally injured Spain by crushing her chivalrous
spirit, by persecuting the industrious Moors, and by destroying her commerce by heavy taxation
(1527-1598).

PHILIP V., grandson of Louis XIV., first Bourbon king of Spain; inherited his throne by the
testament of his uncle Charles II. in 1700; the rival claim of the Archduke Charles of Austria
was supported by England, Austria, Holland, Prussia, Denmark, and Hanover; but the long War
of the Spanish Succession terminated in the peace of Utrecht, and left Philip his kingdom;
after an unsuccessful movement to recover Sicily and Sardinia for Spain he joined England and
France against the Emperor, and gained the former island for his son Charles III.; he died
an imbecile at Madrid (1683-1746).

PHILIP THE BOLD, Duke of Burgundy, was the fourth son of John the Good, king of France; taken
captive at Poitiers 1356; on his return to France he received for his bravery the duchies of
Touraine and Burgundy; on his brother's accession to the French throne as Charles V. he exchanged
the former duchy for the hand of Margaret of Flanders, on the death of whose father he assumed
the government of his territories; his wise administration encouraged arts, industries, and
commerce, and won the respect and esteem of his subjects; he was afterwards Regent of France
when Charles V. became imbecile (1342-1404).

PHILIP THE GOOD, grandson of the above, raised the duchy to its zenith of prosperity, influence,
and fame; he was alternately in alliance with England, and at peace with his superior, France;
ultimately assisting in driving England out of most of her Continental possessions (1396-1467).

PHILIPHAUGH, a battlefield on the Yarrow, 3 m. W. of Selkirk, was the scene of Leslie's victory
over Montrose in 1645.

PHILIPPI, a Macedonian city, was the scene of a victory gained in 42 B.C. by Octavianus and
Antony over Brutus and Cassius, and the seat of a church, the first founded by St. Paul in Europe.

PHILIPPIANS, EPISTLE TO THE, an Epistle of Paul written at Rome during his imprisonment there
to a church at Philippi, in Macedonia, that had been planted by himself, and the members of
which were among the first-fruits of his ministry in Europe. The occasion of writing it was
the receipt of a gift from them, and to express the joy it gave him as a token of their affection.
It is the least dogmatic of all his Epistles, and affords an example of the Apostle's statement
of Christian truth to unbiased minds; one exhortation, however, shows he is not blind to the
rise of an evil which has been the bane of the Church of Christ since the beginning, the spirit
of rivalry, and this is evident from the prominence he gives in chapter ii. 5-8 to the self-sacrificing
lowliness of Christ, and by the counsel he gives them in chapter iv. 8.

PHILIPPIC, the name originally applied to Demosthenes' three great orations against Philip
of Macedon, then to Cicero's speeches against Mark Antony; now denotes any violent invective
written or spoken.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS (8,500), a large and numerous group in the north of the Malay archipelago,
between the China Sea and the Pacific, of which the largest, Luzon, and the next Mindanao,
are both much greater than Ireland; are mountainous and volcanic, subject to eruptions and
continuous earthquakes. In the N. of the group cyclones too are common. The climate is moist
and warm, but fairly healthy; the soil is very fertile. Rice, maize, sugar, cotton, coffee,
and tobacco are cultivated; the forests yield dye-woods, hard timber, and medicinal herbs,
and the mines coal and iron, copper, gold, and lead. The chief exports are sugar, hemp, and
tobacco. The aboriginal Negritoes are now few; half-castes are numerous; the population is
chiefly Malayan, Roman Catholic at least nominally in religion, and speaking the Tagal or the
Visayan language. Discovered by Magellan in 1521, who was killed on the island of Mactan; they
were annexed by Spain in 1569, and held till 1898, when they fell to the Americans. The capital
is Manilla (270), on the W. coast of Luzon; Laoag (37), San Miguel (35), and Banang (33) among
the largest towns.

PHILIPS, AMBROSE, minor poet, born in Leicester, of good family; friend of Addison and Steele,
and a Whig in politics; held several lucrative posts, chiefly in Ireland; wrote pastorals in
vigorous and elegant verse, and also some short sentimental verses for children, which earned
for him from Henry Carey the nickname of "Namby-Pamby" (1678-1749).

PHILIPS, JOHN, littérateur, born in Oxfordshire, author of "The Splendid Shilling," an admirable
burlesque in imitation of Milton, and a poem, "Cider," an imitation of Virgil (1676-1708).

PHILIPS, KATHERINE, poetess, born in London; was the daughter of a London merchant and the
wife of a Welsh squire, a highly sentimental but worthy woman; the Society of Friendship, in
which the members bore fancy names--hers, which also served her for a nom de plume, was Orinda--had
some fame in its day, and brought her, as the foundress, the honour of a dedication from Jeremy
Taylor; her work was admired by Cowley and Keats; she was a staunch royalist (1631-1664).

PHILISTINE, the name given by the students in Germany to a non-university man of the middle-class,
or a man without (university) culture, or of narrow views of things.

PHILISTINES, a people, for long of uncertain origin, but now generally believed to have been
originally emigrants from Crete, who settled in the plain, some 40 m. long by 15 broad, extending
along the coast of Palestine from Joppa on the N. to the desert on the S., and whose chief
cities were Ashdod, Askelon, Ekron, Gaza, and Gath; they were a trading and agricultural people,
were again and again a thorn in the side of the Israelites, but gradually tamed into submission,
so as to be virtually extinct in the days of Christ; their chief god was DAGON (q. v.).

PHILLIP, JOHN, painter, born in Aberdeen; his early pictures illustrate Scottish subjects,
his latest and best illustrate life in Spain, whither he had gone in 1851 for his health (1817-1867).

PHILLIPS, WENDELL, slavery abolitionist and emancipationist generally, born at Boston, U.S.,
and bred to the bar; was Garrison's aide-de-camp in the cause, and chief after his death (1811-1884).

PHILO JUDÆUS (i. e. Philo the Jew), philosopher of the 1st century, born in Alexandria; studied
the Greek philosophy, and found in it, particularly the teaching of Plato, the rationalist
explanation of the religion of Moses, which he regarded as the revelation to which philosophy
was but the key; he was a man of great learning and great influence among his people, and was
in his old age one of an embassy sent by the Jews of Alexandria in A.D. 40 to Rome to protest
against the imperial edict requiring the payment of divine honours to the emperor; he identified
the Logos of the Platonists with the Word in the New Testament.

PHILOCRETES, a famous archer, who had been the friend and armour-bearer of Hercules who instructed
him in the use of the bow, and also bequeathed his bow with the poisoned arrows to him after
his death; he accompanied the Greeks to the siege of Troy, but one of the arrows fell on his
foot, causing a wound the stench of which was intolerable, so that he was left behind at Lemnos,
where he remained in misery 10 years, till an oracle declared that Troy could not be taken
without the arrows of Hercules; he was accordingly sent for, and being healed of his wound
by Æsculapius, assisted at the capture of the city.

PHILOMELA, daughter of Pandion, king of Athens, and sister of Progne; she was the victim of
an outrage committed by her brother-in-law Tereus, who cut out her tongue to prevent her exposing
him, and kept her in close confinement; here she found means of communicating with her sister,
when the two, to avenge the wrong, made away with Itys, Tereus' son, and served him up to his
father at a banquet; the fury of Tereus on the discovery knew no bounds, but they escaped his
vengeance, Philomela by being changed into a nightingale and Progne into a swallow.

PHILOPOEMON, the head of the Achæcan League, born at Megalopolis, and the last of the Greek
heroes; fought hard to achieve the independence of Greece, but having to struggle against heavy
odds, was overpowered; rose from a sick-bed to suppress a revolt, was taken prisoner, thrown
into a dungeon, and forced to drink poison (252-183 B.C.).

PHILOSOPHE, name for a philosopher of the school of 18th century Enlightenment, represented
by the ENCYCLOPEDISTS (q. v.) of France; the class have been characterised by the delight they
took in outraging the religious sentiment. See AUFKLÄRUNG and ILLUMINATION, THE.

PHILOSOPHER'S STONE was, with the Elixir of Life, the object of the search of the mediæval
alchemists. Their theory regarded gold as the most perfect metal, all others being removed
from it by various stages of imperfection, and they sought an amalgam of pure sulphur and pure
mercury, which, being more perfect still than gold, would transmute the baser metals into the
nobler.

PHILOSOPHISM, FRENCH, a philosophy such as the philosophers of France gave instances of, founded
on the notion and cultivated in the belief that scientific knowledge is the sovereign remedy
for the ills of life, summed up in two articles--first, that "a lie cannot be believed"; and
second, that "in spiritual supersensual matters no belief is possible," her boast being that
"she had destroyed religion by extinguishing the abomination" (l'Infame).

PHILOSOPHY, the science of sciences or of things in general, properly an attempt to find the
absolute in the contingent, the immutable in the mutable, the universal in the particular,
the eternal in the temporal, the real in the phenomenal, the ideal in the real, or in other
words, to discover "the single principle that," as Dr. Stirling says, "possesses within itself
the capability of transition into all existent variety and varieties," which it presupposes
can be done not by induction from the transient, but by deduction from the permanent as that
spiritually reveals itself in the creating mind, so that a Philosopher is a man who has, as
Carlyle says, quoting Goethe, "stationed himself in the middle (between the outer and the inner,
the upper and the lower), to whom the Highest has descended and the Lowest mounted up, who
is the equal and kindly brother of all." "Philosophy dwells aloft in the Temple of Science,
the divinity of the inmost shrine; her dictates descend among men, but she herself descends
not; whoso would behold her must climb with long and laborious effort; may still linger in
the forecourt till manifold trial have proved him worthy of admission into the interior solemnities."
Indeed philosophy is more than SCIENCE (q. v.); it is a divine wisdom instilled into and inspiring
a thinker's life. See THINKER, THE.

PHILOXENUS, a Greek poet who lived at the court of Dionysius the Elder, tyrant of Syracuse;
condemned to prison for refusing to praise some verses of the tyrant, he was led forth to criticise
others, but returned them as worse, begging the officers who handed them to lead him back,
which when the tyrant was told, he laughed and released him.

PHILPOTTS, HENRY, bishop of Exeter, born in Bridgwater, a keen Tory and uncompromising High-Churchman,
the chief actor in the celebrated GORHAM CASE (q. v.), and noted for his obstinate opposition
to political reform as the opening of the floodgates of democracy, which he dreaded would subvert
everything that was dear to him (1778-1869).

PHILTRE, the name given to certain concoctions of herbs, often deleterious and poisonous, supposed
to secure for the person administering it the love of the person to whom it was administered;
these love potions were popular in the declining days of Greece and Rome, throughout mediæval
Europe, and continue to be compounded to this day in the superstitious East.

PHIZ, the pseudonym of Hablot K. Browne, the illustrator of the first edition of the "Pickwick
Papers" of Dickens.

PHLEGETHON, in the Greek mythology a river in the lower world which flowed in torrents of fire
athwart it, and which scorched up everything near it.

PHLOGISTON, a name given by the old chemists to an imaginary principle of fire, latent in bodies,
and which escaped during combustion.

PHOCAS, a common soldier who raised himself by the aid of a faction to the throne of the East,
and for twenty years defied attempts to dethrone him, but, being deserted by his party, was
taken, subjected to torture, and beheaded in 610. "His reign," says Gibbon, "afflicted Europe
with ignominious peace, and Asia with desolating war."

PHOCION, a distinguished Athenian general and statesman, a disciple of Plato and Xenocrates;
was wise in council as well as brave in war; opposed to the democracy of Athens, led on by
Demosthenes in the frantic ambition of coping with Philip of Macedon and his son Alexander;
and pled for a pacific arrangement with them; but having opposed war with Antipater, the successor
of the latter, he was accused of treason, and condemned to drink hemlock; the Athenians afterwards
repented of the crime, raised a bronze statue to his memory, and condemned his accuser to death.

PHOCIS, a province of ancient Greece, W. of Boeotia, and N. of the Gulf of Corinth; was traversed
by the mountain range of Parnassus, and contained the oracle of Apollo at Delphi; allied to
Athens in the Peloponnesian War, the Phocians were crushed in the "Sacred War" after ten years'
fighting by Philip of Macedon, 346 B.C.

PHOEBUS (i. e. the radiant one), an epithet originally applied to Apollo for his beauty, and
eventually to him as the sun-god.

PHOENICIA, a country on the E. shore of the Levant, stretching inland to Mount Lebanon, at
first extending only 20 m. N. of Palestine, but later embracing 200 m. of coast, with the towns
of Tyre, Zarephath, Sidon, Gebal, and Arvad. The country comprised well-wooded hills and fertile
plains, was rich in natural resources, richer still in a people of remarkable industry and
enterprise. Of Semitic stock, they emerge from history with Sidon as ruling city about 1500
B.C., and reach their zenith under Tyre 1200-750, thereafter declining, and ultimately merging
in the Roman Empire. During their prosperity their manufactures, purple dye, glass ware, and
metal implements were in demand everywhere; they were the traders of the world, their nautical
skill and geographical position making their markets the centres of exchange between East and
West; their ships sailed every sea, and carried the merchandise of every country, and their
colonists settled all over the Mediterranean, Ægean, and Euxine, and even beyond the Pillars
of Hercules, in Africa, in Britain, and the countries on the Baltic. Her greatest colony was
Carthage, the founding of which (823 B.C.) sapped the strength of the mother-country, and which
afterwards usurped her place, and contended with Rome for the mastery of the world. But Phoenicia's
greatest gift to civilisation was the alphabet, which she herself may have developed from Egyptian
hieroglyphics, and which, with its great merit of simplicity, has, slightly altered, at length
superseded among civilised nations every other system.

PHOENIX, a bird which was fabled at the end of certain cycles of time to immolate itself in
flames, and rise renewed in youth from the ashes. It has become the appropriate symbol of the
death-birth that ever introduces a new era in the history of the world, and is employed by
Carlyle in "Sartor" as symbol of the crisis through which the present generation is now passing,
the conflagration going on appearing nowise as a mere conflagration, but the necessary preliminary
of a new time, with the germinating principles of which it is pregnant.

PHOENIX PARK, a magnificent public park of 2000 acres in Dublin; is much used for military
reviews; it was rendered notorious in 1882 through the murder by the "Invincibles" of Lord
Frederick Cavendish, who had just been appointed Irish Secretary, and his subordinate, Thomas
Burke.

PHONOGRAPH, an instrument invented by EDISON (q. v.) in 1877 for recording and reproducing
articulate sounds of the voice in speech or song, and to which the name of phonogram is given.

PHOTIUS, patriarch of Constantinople; was the great promoter of the schism on the question
of the procession of the Holy Ghost, between the Eastern and the Western divisions of the Church,
denying as he did, and erasing from the creed the FILIOQUE article (q. v.); d. 891.

PHOTOGRAVURE, a process of reproducing pictures from the negative of a photograph on a gelatine
surface with the assistance of certain chemical preparations.

PHOTOSPHERE, name given to the luminous atmosphere enveloping the sun.

PHOTOTYPE, a block with impressions produced by photography from which engravings, &c., can
be printed.

PHRENOLOGY claims to be a science in which the relation of the functions of mind to the material
of the brain substance is observed. It asserts that just as speech, taste, touch, &c., have
their centres in certain convolutions of the brain, so have benevolence, firmness, conscientiousness,
&c., and that by studying the configuration of the brain, as indicated by that of the skull,
a man's character may be approximately discovered. As a science it is usually discredited,
and held to be unsupported by physiology, anatomy, and pathology. It is held as strongly militating
against its claims that it takes no account of the convolutions of the brain that lie on the
base of the skull. Its originators were Gall, Spurzheim, and Andrew and George Combe.

PHRYGIA, a country originally extending over the western shores of Asia Minor, but afterwards
confined to the western uplands, where are the sources of the Hermus, Mæander, and Sangarius;
was made up of barren hills where sheep famous for their wool grazed, and fertile valleys where
the vine was cultivated; marble was quarried in the hills, and gold was found; several great
trade roads from Ephesus crossed the country, among whose towns the names of Colosse and Laodicea
are familiar; the Phrygians were an Armenian people, with a mystic orgiastic religion, and
were successively conquered by Assyrians, Lydians, and Persians, falling under Rome in 43 B.C.

PHRYGIAN CAP, a cap worn by the Phrygians, and worn in modern times as the symbol of freedom.

PHRYNÉ, a Greek courtesan, celebrated for her beauty; was the model to Praxiteles of his statue
of Venus; accused of profaning the Eleusinian Mysteries, she was brought before the judges,
to whom she exposed her person, but who acquitted her of the charge, to preserve to the artists
the image of divine beauty thus recognised in her.

PHTAH, a god of ancient Egypt, worshipped at Memphis; identified with Osiris and Socaris, and
placed by the Egyptians at the head of the dynasty of the kings of Memphis.

PHYLACTERIES, strips of vellum inscribed with certain texts of Scripture, enclosed in small
cases of calf-skin, and attached to the forehead or the left arm; originally connected with
acts of worship, they were eventually turned to superstitious uses, and employed sometimes
as charms and sometimes by way of ostentatious display.

PHYSIOCRATIC SCHOOL, a school of economists founded by Quesney, who regarded the cultivation
of the land as the chief sources of natural well-being, and argued for legislation in behalf of it.

PIACENZA (35), an old Italian city on the Po, 43 m. by rail SE. of Milan; has a cathedral,
and among other churches the San Sisto, which contains the Sistine Madonna of Raphael, a theological
seminary, and large library; it manufactures silks, cottons, and hats, and is a fortress of
great strategical importance.

PIA-MATER, a membrane which invests the brain and the spinal cord; it is of a delicate vascular
tissue.

PIARISTS, a purely religious order devoted to the education of the poor, founded in 1599 by
a Spanish priest, and confirmed in 1617 by Paul V., and again in 1621 by Gregory XV.

PIAZZI, Italian astronomer; discovered in 1801 a planet between Mars and Jupiter, which he
named Ceres, and the first of the planetoids recognised, as well as afterwards catalogued the
stars (1746-1826).

PIBROCH, the Highland bagpipe; also the wild, martial music it discourses.

PICADOR, a man mounted on horseback armed with a spear to incite the bull in a bull-fight.

PICARDY, a province in the N. of France, the capital of which was Amiens; it now forms the
department of Somme, and part of Aisne and Pas-de-Calais.

PICCOLOMINI, the name of an illustrious family of science in Italy, of which Æneas Silvius
(Pope Pius II.) was a member; also Octavio I., Duke of Amalfi, who distinguished himself, along
with Wallenstein, in the Thirty Years' War at Lützen in 1632, at Nordlinger in 1634, and at
Thionville in 1639; was one of the most celebrated soldiers that had command of the imperial
troops (1599-1656).

PICHEGRU, CHARLES, French general, born at Arbois, in Jura; served with distinguished success
in the army of the Republic on the Rhine and in the Netherlands, but sold himself to the Bourbons,
and being convicted of treason, was deported to Cayenne, but escaped to England, where in course
of time he joined the conspiracy of Georges Cadoudal against the First Consul, and being betrayed,
was imprisoned in the Temple, where one morning after he was found strangled (1761-1804).

PICKWICK, SAMUEL, the hero of Dickens's "Pickwick Papers," a character distinguished for his
general goodness and his honest simplicity.

PICO, one of the Azores, consisting of a single volcanic mountain, still in action; produces
excellent wine.

PICO DELLA MIRAN`DOLO, a notable Italian champion of the scholastic dogma, who challenged all
the learned of Europe to enter the lists with him and controvert any one of 900 theses which
he undertook to defend, a challenge which no one, under ban of the Pope, dared accept; he was
the last of the schoolmen as well as a humanist in the bud, and was in his lifetime, with an
astonishing forecast of destiny, named the PHOENIX (q. v.) (1463-1494).

PICQUART, COLONEL, French military officer; was distinguished as a student at the military
schools; served in Algiers; became a captain in 1880; was appointed to the War Office in 1885;
served with distinction in Tonquin; became professor at the Military School; rejoined the War
Office in 1893, and was made head of the Intelligence Department in 1896; moved by certain
discoveries affecting Esterhazy, began to inquire into the Dreyfus case, which led to his removal
out of the way to Tunis; returned and exposed the proceedings against Dreyfus, with the result
that a revision was demanded, and the charge confirmed; b. 1854.

PICTON, SIR THOMAS, British general, born in Pembroke; served in the West Indies, and became
governor of Trinidad, also in the Walcheren Expedition, and became governor of Flushing, and
in the Peninsula and at Waterloo, where he fell as he was leading his men to the charge (1758-1815).

PICTS, a race of people now believed to be of Celtic origin, that from 296 to 844 inhabited
the NE. of Caledonia from the Forth to the Pentland Firth, and were divided into northern and
southern by the Grampians, while the W. of the country, or Argyll, was occupied by the Dalriads
or Scots from Ireland, who eventually gained the ascendency over them, to their amalgamation
into one nation.

PICTS' HOUSES, the name popularly given to EARTH-HOUSES (q. v.) in several parts of Scotland.

PIED PIPER OF HAMELIN, the hero of an old German legend, had come to a German town, offered
to clear it of the rats which infested it for a sum of money, but after executing his task
was unrewarded, upon which he blew a blast on his magic pipe, the sound of which drew the children
of the town into a cave, which he locked when they entered, and shut them up for ever.

PIEDMONT, a district of Italy, formerly a principality, ruled by the house of Savoy, surrounded
by the Alps, the Apennines, and the river Ticino; occupies the W. end of the great fertile
valley of the Po, a hilly region rich in vines and mulberries, and a mountainous tract with
forests and grazing land intersected by lovely valleys, which send streams down into the Po;
the people are industrious; textile manufactures are extensive, and agriculture is skilful;
Turin, the largest town, was the capital of Italy 1859-1865; in the glens of the Cottian Alps
the Vaudois or Waldenses, after much persecution, still dwell.

PIERCE, FRANKLIN, the fourteenth President of the United States, born in New Hampshire, was
the lifelong friend of Nathaniel Hawthorne; bred to the bar; served in the Mexican War, and
was elected President in 1852; his period of office was one of trouble, he supported the States'
rights doctrine, and served with the South in the Civil War (1804-1869).

PIERIA, a district in Macedonia E. of Olympus, inhabited by Thracians, and famous as the seat
of the worship of the Muses and their birthplace, giving rise to the phrase Pierian Spring,
as the source of poetic inspiration.

PIERIDES, the name given to the Muses from their fountain PIERIA (q. v.).

PIERS PLOWMAN, VISION OF, a celebrated satirical poem of the 14th century ascribed to Robert
Langland.

PIETÀ (i. e. piety), the name given to a picture, the subject of which is the dead Christ in
the embrace of his sorrowing mother, accompanied by sorrowing women and angels; that sculptured
by Michael Angelo, in St. Peter's at Rome, representing the Virgin at the foot of the cross,
and the dead Christ in her lap.

PIETERMARITZBURG (16), capital of Natal, 73 m. by rail N. of Durban; well situated on the Umgeni
River, with fine streets, an ample water-supply, and a fine climate; has railroad connection
with Johannesburg, Pretoria, and Charlestown. A third of the population consists of Kaffirs
and coolies.

PIETISTS, the name given to a religious party that arose in Germany at the end of the 17th
century, but without forming a separate sect; laid more stress on religious feeling than dogmatic
belief, and who at length, as all who ground religion on mere feeling are apt to do, distinguished
themselves more by a weak sentimentality than by a sturdy living faith.

PIETRA DURA, a name given to the purest kind of Florentine mosaic work, consists of hard stones
characterised by brilliancy of colour.

PIGEON ENGLISH, a jargon used in commercial dealings with the Chinese, being a mixture of English,
Portuguese, and Chinese.

PIG-PHILOSOPHY, the name given by Carlyle in his "Latter-Day Pamphlets," in the one on Jesuitism,
to the wide-spread philosophy of the time, which regarded the human being as a mere creature
of appetite instead of a creature of God endowed with a soul, as having no nobler idea of well-being
than the gratification of desire--that his only Heaven, and the reverse of it his Hell.

PIGWIGGIN, an elf in love with Queen Mab, who fights the jealous Oberon in furious combat.

PILATE, PONTIUS, Roman procurator of Judea and Samaria in the days of Christ, from A.D. 26
to 36; persuaded of the innocence of Christ when arraigned before his tribunal, would fain
have saved Him, but yielded to the clamour of His enemies, who crucified Him; he protested
before they led Him away by washing his hands in their presence that he was guiltless of His blood.

PILATUS, MOUNT, an isolated mountain at the W. end of Lake Lucerne, opposite the Rigi; is ascended
by a mountain railway, and has hotels on two peaks. A lake below the summit is said to be the
last receptacle of the body of Pontius Pilate, hence the adoption of the name of "Mons Pilatus."

PILCOMAYO, a tributary of the Rio Paraguay, in South America, which it joins after a course
of 1700 miles from its source in the Bolivian Andes.

PILGRIMAGE OF GRACE, a rising in the northern counties of England in 1536 against the policy
of Cromwell, Henry VIII.'s Chancellor, in regard to the temporalities of the Church, which,
though concessions were made to it that led to its dispersion, broke out afresh with renewed
violence, and had to be ruthlessly suppressed.

PILGRIM FATHERS, the name given to the Puritans, some 100 in all, who sailed from Plymouth
in the Mayflower in 1620 and settled in Massachusetts, carrying with them "the life-spark of
the largest nation on our earth."

PILLAR-SAINTS, a class of recluses, called Stylites, who, in early Christian times, retired
from the world to the Syrian Desert, and, perched on pillars, used to spend days and nights
in fasting and praying, in the frantic belief that by mortification of their bodies they would
ensure the salvation of their souls; their founder was Simon, surnamed Stylites; the practice,
which was never allowed in the West, continued down to the 12th century.

PILLARS OF HERCULES. See HERCULES, PILLARS OF.

PILLORY, an obsolete instrument of punishment for centuries in use all over Europe, consisted
of a platform, an upright pole, and at a convenient height cross-boards with holes, in which
the culprit's neck and wrists were placed and fastened; so fixed he was exposed in some public
place to the insults and noxious missiles of the mob. Formerly in England the penalty of forgery,
perjury, &c., it became after the Commonwealth a favourite punishment for seditious libellers.
It was last inflicted in London in 1830, and was abolished by law in 1837.

PILOTY, KARL VON, a modern German painter of the new Münich school, and professor of Painting
at the Münich Academy; did portraits, but his masterpieces are on historical subjects, such
as "Nero on the ruins of Rome," "Galileo in Prison," "The Death of Cæsar," &c.; he was no less
eminent as a teacher of art than as an artist (1826-1886).

PILSEN (50), a town in Bohemia, 67 m. SW. of Prague; has numerous industries, and rich coal
and iron mines, and produces an excellent beer, which it exports in large quantities. It was
an important place during the Thirty Years' War.

PINDAR, the greatest lyric poet of Greece, and for virgin purity of imagination ranked by Ruskin
along with Homer, Virgil, Dante, and Scott; born near Thebes, in Boeotia, of a musical family,
and began his musical education by practice on the flute, while he was assisted in his art
by the example of his countrywoman Corinna, who competed with and defeated him more than once
at the public festivals; he was a welcome visitor at the courts of all the Greek princes of
the period, and not the less honoured that he condescended to no flattery and attuned his lyre
to no sentiment but what would find an echo in every noble heart; he excelled in every department
of lyric poetry, hymns to the gods, the praises of heroes, pæans of victory, choral songs,
festal songs and dirges, but of these only a few remain, his Epinikia, a collection of triumphal
odes in celebration of the successes achieved at the great national games of Greece; he was
not only esteemed the greatest of lyric poets by his countrymen, but is without a rival still;
when Alexander destroyed Thebes he spared the house of Pindar (522-442 B.C.).

PINDAR, PETER. See WOLCOTT, JOHN.

PINDAREES or PINDARIS, a set of freebooters who at the beginning of the present century ravaged
Central India and were the terror of the districts, but who under the governor-generalship
of Hastings were driven to bay and crushed in 1817.

PINDUS, MOUNT, is the range of mountains rising between Thessaly and Epirus, which forms the
watershed of the country.

PINEAL GLAND, a small cone-shaped body of yellowish matter in the brain, the size of a pea,
and situated in the front of the cerebellum, notable as considered by Descartes to be the seat
of the soul, but is now surmised to be a rudimentary remnant of some organ, of vision it would
seem, now extinct.

PINEL, PHILIPPE, a French physician, distinguished for the reformation he effected, against
no small opposition, in the treatment of the insane, leading to the abandonment everywhere
of the cruel, inhuman methods till then in vogue (1745-1826).

PINERO, ARTHUR WING, dramatic author, born in London; bred to law, took to the stage and the
writing of plays, of which he has produced a goodly number; collaborated with Sir Arthur Sullivan
and Mr. Comyns Carr in a romantic musical drama entitled "The Beauty Stone"; b. 1855.

PINEROLO (12), a town 23 m. SW. of Turin, now a fortress in an important military position,
and in which the "Man with the Iron Mask" was imprisoned.

PINKERTON, JOHN, a Scottish antiquary and historian, born in Edinburgh; was an original in
his way, went to London, attracted the notice of Horace Walpole and Gibbon; died in Paris,
poor and neglected (1758-1826).

PINKIE, a Scottish battlefield, near Musselburgh, Midlothian, where the Protector Somerset,
in his expedition to secure the hand of Mary Stuart for Edward VI., defeated and slaughtered
a Scottish army 1547.

PINTO, MENDEZ, a Portuguese traveller; wrote in his "Peregriniçam" an account of his marvellous
adventures in Arabia, Persia, China, and Japan, extending over a period of 21 years (1527-1548),
of which, amid much exaggeration, the general veracity is admitted (1510-1583).

PINTURICCHIO, Italian painter, born at Perugia; was assistant to Perugino (q. v.) when at work
in the Sistine Chapel, Rome, did frescoes and panel paintings, one of the "Christ bearing the
Cross" (1454-1513).

PINZEN, the name of two brothers, companions of Christopher Columbus, and one of whom, Vicente
Yanez, discovered Brazil in 1500.

PIOZZI, HESTER, a female friend of Johnson under the name of Mrs. Thrale, after her first husband,
a brewer in Southwark, whose home for her sake was the rendezvous of all the literary celebrities
of the period; married afterwards, to Johnson's disgust, an Italian music-master, lived with
him at Florence, and returned at his death to Clifton, where she died; left "Anecdotes of Johnson"
and "Letters"; was authoress of "The Three Warnings" (1741-1821).

PIPE OF PEACE, a pipe offered by an American Indian to one whom he wishes to be on good terms with.

PIRÆUS (36), the port of Athens 5 m. SW. of the city, planned by Themistocles, built in the
time of Pericles, and afterwards connected with the city for safety by strong walls, which
was destroyed by the Spartans at the end of the Peloponnesian War, but restored, to fall afterwards
into neglect and ruins.

PIRANO (9), a seaport of Austria, on the Adriatic, 12 m. SW. of Trieste; has salt-works in
the neighbourhood, and manufactures glass, soap, &c.

PIRITHOUS, king of the Lapithæ and friend of Theseus, on the occasion of whose marriage an
intoxicated Centaur ran off with his bride Hippodamia, which gave rise to the famous fight
between the Centaurs and the Lapithæ, in which Theseus assisted, and the former were defeated;
on the death of Hippodamia, Pirithous ran off with Persephone and Theseus with Helen, for which
both had to answer in the lower world before Pluto; Hercules delivered the latter, but Pluto
would not release the former.

PIRKE ABOTH (i. e. sayings of the Fathers), the name given to a collection of aphorisms in
the manner of Jesus the Son of Sirach by 60 doctors learned in the Jewish law, representative
of their teaching, and giving the gist of it; they inculcate the importance of familiarity
with the words of the Law.

PIRNA (11), a town in Saxony, on the Elbe, 11 m. SE. of Dresden; has sandstone quarries in
the neighbourhood which employ 8000 quarrymen.

PISA (38), on the Arno, 49 m. by rail W. of Florence, is one of the oldest cities in Italy;
formerly a port, the river has built up the land at its mouth so that the sea is now 4 m. off,
and the ancient trade of Pisa has been transferred to Leghorn. There are a magnificent cathedral,
rich in art treasures, a peculiar campanile of white marble which deviates 14 ft. from the
perpendicular, known as the leaning tower of Pisa, several old and beautiful churches, a university,
school of art, and library. Silks and ribbons are woven, and coral ornaments cut. In the 11th
century Pisa was at the zenith of its prosperity as a republic, with a great mercantile fleet,
and commercial relations with all the world. Its Ghibelline sympathies involved it in terrible
struggles, in which it gradually sank till its fortunes were merged in those of Tuscany about
1550. The council of Pisa, 1409, held to determine the long-standing rival claims of Gregory
XII. and Benedict XII. to the Papal chair, ended by adding a third claimant, Alexander V. Pisa
was one of the twelve cities of ancient Etruria.

PISANO, NICOLA, Italian sculptor and architect of Pisa; his most famous works are the pulpit
in the Baptistery at Pisa, and that for the Duomo at Siena, the last being the fountain in
the piazza of Perugia (1206-1278).

PISGAH, a mountain range E. of the Lower Jordan, one of the summits of which is Mount Nebo,
from which Moses beheld the Promised Land, and where he died and was buried.

PISHIN (60), a district of South Afghanistan, N. of Quetta, occupied by the British since 1878
as strategically of importance.

PISIDIA, a division of ancient Asia Minor, N. of Pamphilia, and traversed by the Taurus chain.

PISISTRATUS, tyrant of Athens, was the friend of Solon and a relative; an able but an ambitious
man; being in favour with the citizens presented himself one day in the Agora, and displaying
some wounds he had received in their defence, persuaded them to give him a bodyguard of 50
men, which grew into a larger force, by means of which in 560 B.C. he took possession of the
citadel and seized the sovereign power, from which he was shortly after driven forth; after
six years he was brought back, but compelled to retire a second time; after 10 years he returned
and made good his ascendency, reigning thereafter peacefully for 14 years, and leaving his
power in the hands of his sons Hippias and Hipparchus; he was a good and wise ruler, and encouraged
the liberal arts, and it is to him we owe the first written collection or complete edition
of the poems of Homer (600-527 B.C.).

PISTOIA (20), a town of N. Italy, at the foot of the Apennines, 21 m. NW. of Florence, with
palaces and churches rich in works of art; manufactures iron and steel wares.

PISTOL, ANCIENT, a swaggering bully and follower of Falstaff in the "Merry Wives of Windsor."

PISTOLE, an obsolete gold coin of Europe, originally of Spain, worth some 16s. 2d.

PIT`AKA` (lit. a basket), the name given to the sacred books of the Buddhists, and constituting
collectively the Buddhistic code. See TRIPITAKA.

PITAVAL, a French advocate, compiler of a famous collection of causes célèbres (1673-1743).

PITCAIRN ISLAND, a small volcanic island 2½ m. long and 1 broad, solitary, in the Pacific,
5000 m. E. of Brisbane, where, in 1790, nine men of H.M.S. Bounty who had mutinied landed with
six Tahitians and a dozen Tahitian women; from these have sprung an interesting community of
islanders, virtuous, upright, and contented, of Christian faith, who, having sent a colony
to Norfolk Island, numbered in 1890 still 128.

PITCAIRNE, ARCHIBALD, Scottish physician and satirist, born at Edinburgh; studied theology
and law, and afterwards at Paris, medicine; he practised in Edinburgh, and became professor
at Leyden; returning, he acquired great fame in his native city; in medicine he published a
treatise on Harvey's discovery of the circulation of the blood; being an Episcopalian and Jacobite,
he wrote severe satires on all things Presbyterian, e. g. "Babel, or the Assembly, a Poem,"
1692 (1652-1713).

PITHOM, a town of Rameses, one of the treasure-cities built by the children of Israel in Lower
Egypt, now, as discovered by M. Naville, reduced to a small village between Ismailia and Tel-el-Kebir.

PITMAN, SIR ISAAC, inventor of the shorthand system which bears his name, born at Trowbridge,
Wiltshire; his first publication was "Stenographic Sound-Hand" in 1837, and in 1842 he started
the Phonetic Journal, and lectured extensively as well as published in connection with his
system (1813-1897).

PITRÈ, GIUSEPPE, eminent Italian folk-lorist, born at Palermo, after serving as a volunteer
in 1860 under Garibaldi, and graduating in medicine in 1866, threw himself into the study of
literature, and soon made the folk-lore of Italy, the special study of his life, and to which
he has devoted himself with unsparing assiduity, the fruits from time to time appearing principally
in two series of his works, one in 19 vols. and another in 10 vols.; b. 1841.

PITRIS (i. e. Fathers), in the Hindu mythology an order of divine beings, and equal to the
greatest of the gods, who, by their sacrifice, delivered the world from chaos, gave birth to
the sun and kindled the stars, and in whose company the dead, who have like them lived self-sacrificingly,
enter when they lay aside mortality. See Rev. vii. 14.

PITACOTTIE, ROBERT LINDSAY OF, proprietor in the 16th century of the Fifeshire estate name
of which he bore, was the author of "The Chronicles of Scotland," to which Sir Walter Scott
owed so much; his work is quaint, graphic, and, on the whole, trustworthy.

PITT, WILLIAM. See CHATHAM, EARL OF.

PITT, WILLIAM, English statesman, second son of Lord Chatham, born near Bromley, Kent, grew
up a delicate child in a highly-charged political atmosphere, and studied with such diligence
under the direction of his father and a tutor that he entered Cambridge at 14; called to the
bar in 1780, he speedily threw himself into politics, and contested Cambridge University in
the election of 1781; though defeated, he took his seat for the pocket burgh of Appleby, joined
the Shelburne Tories in opposition to North's ministry, and was soon a leader in the House;
he supported, but refused to join, the Rockingham Ministry of 1782, contracted his long friendship
with Dundas, afterwards Viscount Melville, and became an advocate of parliamentary reform;
his first office was Chancellor of the Exchequer under Lord Shelburne; his reputation steadily
rose, but on Shelburne's resignation he refused the Premiership, and went into opposition against
the Portland, Fox, and North coalition; that minority being defeated (1783) on their Indian
policy by the direct and unconstitutional interference of the king, he courageously formed
a government with a majority of 100 against him; refusing to yield to adverse votes, he gradually
won over the House and the country, and the dissolution of 1784 gave a majority of 120 in his
favour, and put him in office, one of England's strongest ministers; during his long administration,
broken only for one month in 20 years, he greatly raised the importance of the Commons, stamped
out direct corruption in the House, and abolished many sinecures; he revised taxation, improved
the collection of revenue and the issue of loans, and set the finances in a flourishing condition;
he reorganised the government of India, and aimed strenuously to keep England at peace; but
his abandonment of parliamentary reform and the abolition of the slave-trade suggests that
he loved power rather than principles; his Poor-Law schemes and Sinking Fund were unsound;
he failed to appreciate the problems presented by the growth of the factory system, or to manage
Ireland with any success; on the outbreak of the French Revolution he failed to understand
its significance, did not anticipate a long war, and made bad preparations and bad schemes;
his vacillation in Irish policy induced the rebellion of 1798; by corrupt measures he carried
the legislative union of 1801, but the king refused to allow the Catholic emancipation he promised
as a condition; Viscount Melville was driven from the Admiralty on a charge of malversation,
his own health broke down, and the victory of Trafalgar scarcely served to brighten his closing
days; given to deep drinking, and culpably careless of his private moneys, he yet lived a pure,
simple, amiable life; with an overcharged dignity, he was yet an attractive man and a warm
friend; England has had few statesmen equal to him in the handling of financial and commercial
problems, and few orators more fluent and persuasive than the great peace minister.

PITT DIAMOND, a diamond brought from Golconda by the grandfather of the elder Pitt, who sold
it to the king of France; it figured at length in the hilt of the State sword of Napoleon,
and was carried off by the Prussians at Waterloo.

PITTACUS, one of the seven sages of Greece, born at Mitylene, in Lesbos, in the 7th century
B.C.; celebrated as a warrior, a statesman, a philosopher, and a poet; expelled the tyrants
from Mitylene, and held the supreme power for 10 years after by popular vote, and resigned
on the establishment of social order; two proverbs are connected with his name: "It is difficult
to be good," "Know the fit time."

PITTSBURG (321), second city of Pennsylvania, is 350 m. by rail W. of Philadelphia, where the
junction of the Alleghany and the Monongahela Rivers forms the Ohio; the city extends for 10
miles along the rivers' banks, and climbs up the surrounding hills; there are handsome public
buildings and churches, efficient schools, a Roman Catholic college, and a Carnegie library;
domestic lighting and heating and much manufacture is done by natural gas, which issues at
high pressure from shallow borings in isolated districts 20 m. from the city; standing in the
centre of an extraordinary coal-field--the edges of the horizontal seams protrude on the hillsides--it
is the largest coal-market in the States; manufactures include all iron goods, steel and copper,
glassware, and earthenware; its position at the eastern limit of the Mississippi basin, its
facilities of transport by river and rail--six trunk railroads meet here--give it enormous
trade advantages; its transcontinental business is second in volume only to Chicago; in early
times the British colonists had many struggles with the French for this vantage point; a fort
built by the British Government in 1759, and called after the elder Pitt, was the nucleus of
the city.

PITYRIASIS, a skin eruption attended with branlike desquamation.

PIUS, the name of nine Popes, of which only six call for particular mention: P. II., Pope from
1458 to 1464, was of the family of the Piccolomini, and is known to history as Æneas Sylvius,
and under which name he did diplomatic work in Britain and Germany; as Pope he succeeded Callistus
III.; he was a wily potentate, and is distinguished for organising a crusade against the Turks
as well as his scholarship; the works which survive him are of a historical character, and
his letters are of great value. P. IV., from 1559 to 1563, was of humble birth; during his
popehood the deliberations of the Council of Trent were brought to a close, and the Tridentine
Creed was named after him. P. V., Pope 1566 to 1572, also of humble birth, was severe in his
civil and ecclesiastical capacity, both in his internal administration and foreign relationships,
and thought to browbeat the world back into the bosom of Mother Church; issued a bull releasing
Queen Elizabeth's subjects from their allegiance; but the great event of his reign, and to
which he contributed, was the naval victory over the Turks at Lepanto in 1571. P. VI., Pope
from 1775 to 1799; the commencement of his popehood was signalised by beneficent measures for
the benefit of the Roman city, but he was soon in trouble in consequence of encroachments on
Church privileges in Austria and the confiscation of all Church property in France, which ended,
on his resisting, to still further outrages, in his capture by the French under Bonaparte and
his expatriation from Rome. P. VII., Pope from 1800 to 1823, concluded a concordat with France,
crowned Napoleon emperor at Paris, who thereafter annexed the papal territories to the French
empire, which were in part restored to him only after Napoleon's fall; he was a meek-spirited
man, and was much tossed about in his day. P. IX., or Pio Nono, from 1846 to 1878, was a "reforming"
Pope, and by his concessions awoke in 1848 a spirit of revolution, under the force of which
he was compelled to flee from Rome, to return again under the protection of French bayonets
against his own subjects, to devote himself to purely ecclesiastical affairs; in 1854 he promulgated
the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception, and in 1869 the Infallibility of the Pope; upon
the outbreak of the Franco-German War in 1871 the French troops were withdrawn and Victor Emmanuel's
troops entered the city; Pius retired into the Vatican, where he lived in seclusion till his death.

PIX, the name of a little chest in which the consecrated host is kept in the Roman Catholic
Church. See PYX.

PIXIES, Devonshire Robin Goodfellows, said to be the spirits of infants who died unbaptized.

PIZARRO, FRANCISCO, the conqueror of Peru, born at Truxillo, in Spain, the son of a soldier
of distinction; received no education, but was of an adventurous spirit, and entered the army;
embarked with other adventurers to America, and having distinguished himself in Panama, set
out by way of the Pacific on a voyage of discovery along with another soldier named Almagra;
landed on the island of Gallo, on the coast of Peru, and afterwards returned with his companion
to Spain for authority to conquer the country; when in 1529 he obtained the royal sanction
he set sail from Spain with three ships in 1531, and on his arrival at Peru found a civil war
raging between the two sons of the emperor, who had just died; Pizarro saw his opportunity;
approached Atahualpa, the victorious one, now become the reigning Inca, with overtures of peace,
was admitted into the interior of the country; invited him to a banquet, had him imprisoned,
and commenced a wholesale butchery of his subjects, upon which he forced Atahualpa to disclose
his treasures, and then put him perfidiously to death; his power, by virtue of the mere terror
he inspired, was now established, and he might have continued to maintain it, but a contest
having arisen between him and his old comrade Almagro, whom after defeating he put to death,
the sons and friends of the latter rose against him, seized him in his palace at Lima, and
took away his life (1476-1541).

PLAGUE, THE, is a very malignant kind of highly contagious fever, marked by swellings of the
lymphatic glands. From the development of purple patches due to subcutaneous hæmorrhages the
European epidemic of 1348-50 was called the Black Death. A quarter of the European population
perished on that occasion. Other visitations devastated London in 1665, Northern Europe 1707-14,
Marseilles and Provence 1720-22, and South-East Russia 1878-79. The home of the Plague was
formerly Lower Egypt, Turkey, and the shores of the Levant. From these it has been absent since
1844. Its home since then has been in India, where it has assumed epidemic form 1836-38 and
1896-99.

PLAIN, THE, the name given to the Girondists or Moderate party in the French National Convention,
in contrast with THE MOUNTAIN (q. v.) or JACOBIN PARTY.

PLANCHÉ, JAMES ROBINSON, antiquary and dramatist, born in London, of French descent; author
of a number of burlesques; an authority on heraldry and costumes; he produced over 200 pieces
for the stage, and held office in the Heralds' Court (1796-1880).

PLANETOIDS, the name given to a number of very small planets revolving between the orbits of
Mars and Jupiter, originally called Asteroids, all of recent discovery, and the list, amounting
to some 400, as yet made of them understood to be incomplete. They are very difficult of discovery,
many of them from the smallness of their size and their erratic movements.

PLANETS, bodies resembling the earth and of different sizes, which revolve in elliptical orbits
round the sun, and at different distances, the chief of them eight in number, two of them,
viz., Mercury and Venus, revolving in orbits interior to that of the earth, and five of them,
viz., Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, exterior, the whole with the PLANETOIDS (q.
v.) and comets constituting the solar system.

PLANTAGENETS, the name attached to a dynasty of kings of England, who reigned from the extinction
of the Norman line to the accession of the Tudor, that is, from the beginning of Henry II.'s
reign in 1154 to the end of Richard III.'s on Bosworth Field in 1458. The name was adopted
by Geoffrey of Anjou, the husband of Matilda, the daughter of Henry I., whose badge was a sprig
of broom (which the name denotes), and which he wore in his bonnet as descended from the Earl
of Anjou, who was by way of penance scourged with twigs of it at Jerusalem.

PLANTIN, CHRISTOPHE, a printer of Antwerp, born near Tours, in France; celebrated for the beauty
and accuracy of the work that issued from his press, the most notable being the "Antwerp Polyglot";
he had printing establishments in Leyden and Paris, as well as Antwerp, all these conducted
by sons-in-law (1514-1589).

PLASSEY, a great battlefield in Bengal, now swept away by changes in the course of the river,
scarcely 100 m. N. of Calcutta; was the scene of Clive's victory in 1757 with 800 Europeans
and 2200 unreliable native troops over Suraj-ud-Dowlah, the ruler of Bengal, which laid that
province at the feet of Britain, and led to the foundation of the British Empire in India.

PLASTER OF PARIS, a compound of lime, sand, and water used for coating walls, taking casts,
and forming moulds.

PLATÆA, a city of ancient Greece, in western Boeotia, neighbour and ally of Athens, suffered
greatly in the Persian and Peloponnesian Wars. It was destroyed by the Persians 480 B.C., by
the Peloponnesian forces 429 B.C., and again by the Thebans 387 B.C. Philip of Macedon restored
the exiles to their homes in 338 B.C.

PLATO, the great philosopher, born in Athens, of noble birth, the year Pericles died, and the
second of the Peloponnesian War; at 20 became a disciple of Socrates, and passed eight years
in his society; at 30, after the death of Socrates, quitted Athens, and took up his abode at
Megara; from Megara he travelled to Cyrene, Egypt, Magna Græcia, and Sicily, prolonging his
stay in Magna Græcia, and studying under Pythagoras, whose philosophy was then at its prime,
and which exercised a profound influence over him; after ten years' wandering in this way he,
at the age of 40, returned to Athens, and founded his Academy, a gymnasium outside the city
with a garden, which belonged to his father, and where he gathered around him a body of disciples,
and had Aristotle for one of his pupils, lecturing there with undiminished mental power till
he reached the advanced age of 81; of his philosophy one can give no account here, or indeed
anywhere, it was so unsectarian; he was by pre-eminence the world-thinker, and though he was
never married and left no son, he has all the thinking men and schools of philosophy in the
world as his offspring; enough to say that his philosophy was philosophy, as it took up in
its embrace both the ideal and the real, at once the sensible and the super-sensible world
(429-347 B.C.).

PLATOFF, MATVEI IVANOVICH, COUNT, hetman of Cossacks, and Russian commander in the Napoleonic
wars; took part in the campaigns of 1805-7, and scourged the French during their retreat from
Moscow in 1812, and again after their defeat at Leipzig 1813; he commanded at the victory of
Altenburg 1813, and for his services obtained the title of count (1757-1818).

PLATONIC LOVE, love between persons of different sexes, in which as being love of soul for
soul no sexual passion intermingles; is so named agreeably to the doctrine of Plato, that a
man finds his highest happiness when he falls in with another who is his soul's counterpart
or complement.

PLATONIC YEAR, a period of 26,000 years, denoting the time of a complete revolution of the equinox.

PLATT-DEUTSCH or LOW GERMAN, a dialect spoken by the peasantry in North Germany from the Rhine
to Pomerania, and derived from Old Saxon.

PLATTE, the largest affluent of the Missouri, which joins it at Plattsmouth after an easterly
course of 900 m.

PLATTEN-SEE. See BALATON, LAKE.

PLAUEN (46), a town in Saxony, on the Elster, 78 m. S. of Leipzig, with extensive textile and
other manufactures.

PLAUTUS, a Latin comic poet, born in Umbria; came when young to Rome, as is evident from his
mastery of the Latin language and his knowledge of Greek; began to write plays for the stage
at 30, shortly before the outbreak of the second Punic War, and continued to do so for 40 years;
he wrote about 130 comedies, but only 20 have survived, the plots mostly borrowed from Greek
models; they were much esteemed by his contemporaries; they have supplied material for dramatic
treatment in modern times (227-184 B.C.).

PLAYFAIR, JOHN, Scotch mathematician, born at Benvie; bred for the Church, became professor
first of Mathematics and then of Natural Philosophy at Edinburgh University; wrote on geometry
and geology, in the latter supported the Huttonian theory of the earth (1748-1819).

PLEIADES, in the Greek mythology seven sisters, daughters of Atlas, transformed into stars,
six of them visible and one invisible, and forming the group on the shoulders of Taurus in
the zodiac; in the last week of May they rise and set with the sun till August, after which
they follow the sun and are seen more or less at night till their conjunction with it again in May.

PLEIADES, THE, the name given to the promoters of a movement in the middle of the 16th century
that aimed at the reform of the French language and literature on classical models, and led
on by a group of seven men, Ronsard, Du Bellay, Belleau, Baïf, Daurat, Jodelle, and Pontus
de Tyard. The name "Pleiad" was originally applied to seven contemporary poets in ancient Greece,
and afterwards to seven learned men in the time of Charlemagne.

PLENIST, name given to one who holds the doctrine that all space is filled with matter.

PLESIOSAURUS, an extinct marine animal with a small head and a long neck.

PLEURA, the serous membrane that lines the interior of the thorax and invests the lungs.

PLEURA-PNEUMONIA, an inflammation of the lungs and pleura, Pleurisy being the inflammation
of the pleura alone.

PLEVNA (14), a fortified town in Bulgaria, in which Osman Pasha entrenched himself in 1877,
and where he was compelled to capitulate and surrender to the Russians with his force of 42,000
men.

PLEYDELL, MR. PAULUS, a shrewd lawyer in Scott's "Guy Mannering."

PLIMSOLL, SAMUEL, "the sailor's friend," born at Bristol; after experience in a Sheffield brewery
entered business in London as a coal-dealer; interesting himself in the condition of the sailor's
life in the mercantile marine, he directed public attention to many scandalous abuses practised
by unscrupulous owners, the overloading, under-manning, and insufficient equipment of ships
and sending unseaworthy vessels out to founder for the sake of insurance money; entering Parliament
for Derby in 1868, he secured the passing of the Merchant Shipping Act in 1876 levelled against
these abuses; his name has been given to the circle with horizontal line through the centre,
now placed by the Board of Trade on the side of every vessel to indicate to what depth she
may be loaded in salt water (1824-1898).

PLINLIMMON (i. e. five rivers), a mountain 2469 ft. high, with three summits, on the confines
of Montgomery and Cardigan, so called as source of five different streams.

PLINY, THE ELDER, naturalist, born at Como, educated at Rome, and served in the army; was for
a space procurator in Spain, spent much of his time afterwards studying at Borne; being near
the Bay of Naples during an eruption of Vesuvius, he landed to witness the phenomenon, but
was suffocated by the fumes; his "Natural History" is a repertory of the studies of the ancients
in that department, being a record, more or less faithful, from extensive reading, of the observation
of others rather than his own; d. A.D. 79.

PLINY, THE YOUNGER, nephew of the preceding, the friend of Trajan; filled various offices in
the State; his fame rests on his "Letters," of special interest to us for the account they
give of the treatment of the early Christians and their manner of worship, as also of the misjudgment
on the part of the Roman world at the time of their religion, as in their eyes, according to
him, "a perverse and extravagant superstition" (62-115).

PLOTINUS, an Alexandrian philosopher of the Neo-Platonic school, born at Lycopolis, in Egypt;
he taught philosophy at Rome, a system in opposition to the reigning scepticism of the time,
and which based itself on the intuitions of the soul elevated into a state of mystical union
with God, who in His single unity sums up all and whence all emanates, all being regarded as
an emanation from Him (207-270).

PLUGSTON OF UNDERSHOT, Carlyle's name in "Past and Present" for a member or "Master-Worker"
of the English mammon-worshipping manufacturing class in rivalry with the aristocracy for the
ascendency in the land, who pays his workers his wages and thinks he has done his duty with
them in so doing, and is secure in the fortune he has made by that cash-payment gospel of his
as all the law and the prophets, called of "Undershot," his mill being driven by a wheel, the
working power of which is hidden unheeded by him, to break out some day to the damage of both
his mill and him.

PLUMPTRE, EDWARD HAYES, distinguished English divine and scholar, born in London; was Dean
of Wells; as a divine he wrote commentaries on books of both the Old and New Testaments, and
as a scholar executed able translations in verse of Sophocles, Æschylus, and the "Commedia"
of Dante, the last perhaps his greatest and most enduring work (1821-1891).

PLUNKET, LORD, Chancellor of Ireland, born in Ireland, bred to the bar; entered the Irish House
of Commons; opposed the Union with Great Britain; after the Union practised at the bar, and
held legal appointments; was made a peer, and materially aided the Duke of Wellington in the
House of Lords in carrying the Catholic Emancipation Bill of 1829 (1764-1854).

PLUTARCH, celebrated Greek biographer and moralist, born at Chæronea, in Boeotia; studied at
Athens; paid frequent visits to Rome, and formed friendships with some of its distinguished
citizens; spent his later years at his native place, and held a priesthood; his fame rests
on his "Parallel Lives" of 46 distinguished Greeks and Romans, a series of portraitures true
to the life, and a work one of the most valuable we possess on the illustrious men of antiquity,
and an enduring memorial of them (50-120).

PLUTO, god of the nether world, son of Kronos and Rhea, brother of Zeus and Poseidon, and husband
of Persephone; on the dethronement of Kronos the universe was divided among themselves by the
three brothers, Zeus assuming the dominion of the upper world and Poseidon that of the ocean,
leaving the nether kingdom to him, a domain over which and forth of which he ruled with a greater
and more undisputed authority than the other two over heaven, earth, and sea.

PLUTONIC THEORY, the theory that unstratifled rocks were formed by fusion in fire.

PLUTUS, the god of riches, son of Jason and Demeter. Zeus is said to have put out his eyes
that he might bestow his gifts without respect to merit, that is, on the evil and the good
impartially.

PLYMOUTH (87), the largest town in Devonshire, stands on the N. shore of Plymouth Sound, 250
m. W. of London by rail; adjacent to it are the towns of Stonehouse and Devonport. Among the
chief buildings are a Gothic town-hall, a 15th-century church, and a Roman Catholic cathedral.
The chief industry is chemical manufactures. There is a large coasting and general trade, and
important fisheries. Many sea-going steamship companies make it a place of call. The Sound
is an important naval station, and historically famous as the sailing port of the fleet that
vanquished the Armada.

PLYMOUTH BRETHREN, an anti-clerical body of Christians, one of the earliest communities of
which was formed in Plymouth about 1830; they accept, along with Pre-Millenarian views, generally
the Calvinistic view of the Christian religion, and exclude all unconverted men from their
communion, while all included in the body are of equal standing, and enjoy equal privileges
as members of Christ. They appear to regard themselves as the sole representatives in these
latter days of the Church of Christ, and as the salt of the earth, for whose sake it exists,
and on whose decease it and its works of darkness will be burnt up. They are known also by
the name of Darbyites, from the name of one of their founders, a barrister, John Nelson Darby,
an able man, and with all his exclusiveness a sincere disciple of Christ (1800-1882).

PNEUMONIA, name given to acute inflammation of the lungs.

PO, the largest river in Italy, rises 6000 ft. above sea-level in the Cottian Alps, and after
20 m. of rocky defiles emerges on the great Lombardy plain, which it crosses from W. to E.,
receiving the Ticino, Adda, Mincio, and Trebbia, tributaries, and enters the Adriatic by a
rapidly growing delta. Its total course is 360 m.; the width and volume of its stream make
it difficult to cross and so a protection to all Italy. The chief towns on its banks are Turin,
Piacenza, and Cremona.

POCAHONTAS, the daughter of an Indian chief in Virginia, who favoured the English settlers
there, saving the life of Captain Smith the coloniser, and afterwards married John Rolfe, one
of the settlers; came to England, and was presented at Court; several Virginian families trace
their descent to her.

POCKET BOROUGH, a borough in which the influence of some magnate of the place determines the
voting at an election time, a thing pretty much of the past.

POCOCK, EDWARD, English Arabic and Hebrew scholar, born at Oxford, and occupied both the chairs
of Arabic and Hebrew there, and left works in evidence of his scholarship and learning in both
languages, quite remarkable for the time when he lived (1604-1691).

POCOCKE, RICHARD, English prelate, born at Southampton; travelled extensively, particularly
in the East; wrote a description of the countries of the East and of others, among them "Tours
In Scotland" and a "Tour in Ireland," all deemed of value (1704-1765).

PODESTA, the name given to the chief magistrate of an Italian town, with military as well as
municipal authority; he was salaried, and annually elected to the office by the council, and
had to give an account of his administration at the end of his term.

PODIEBRAD, GEORGE, king of Bohemia; rose, though a Hussite, and in spite of the Pope, from
the ranks of the nobles to that elevation; forced his enemies to come to terms with him, and
held his ground against them till the day of his death (1420-1471).

POE, EDGAR ALLAN, an American poet, born in Boston, Massachusetts; a youth of wonderful genius,
but of reckless habits, and who came to an unhappy and untimely end; left behind him tales
and poems, which, though they were not appreciated when he lived, have received the recognition
they deserve since his death; his poetical masterpiece, "The Raven," is well known; died at
Baltimore of inflammation of the brain, insensible from which he was picked up in a street
one evening (1809-1849).

POERIO, CARLO, Italian patriot; was conspicuous in the revolutionary movement of 1848; was
arrested and banished, but escaped to England, where he was received with sympathy by Mr. Gladstone
among others; he rose into power on the establishment of the kingdom of Italy (1803-1867).

POET LAUREATE, the English court poet, an office which dates from the reign of Edward IV.,
the duty of the holder of it being originally to write an ode on the birthday of the monarch.

POETICAL JUSTICE, ideal justice as administered in their writings by the poets.

POETRY, the gift of penetrating into the inner soul or secret of a thing, and bodying it forth
rhythmically so as to captivate the imagination and the heart.

POET'S CORNER, a corner in the SW. transept of Westminster Abbey, so called as containing the
tombs of Chaucer, Spenser, and other eminent English poets.

POGGENDORF, JOHANN CHRISTIAN, a German physicist and chemist, born at Hamburg; professor of
Physics at Berlin; was the editor for more than half a century of the famous Annalen der Physik
und Chimie, and the author of numerous papers (1796-1877).

POGGIO, BRACCIOLINI, an Italian scholar, born in Florence, was a distinguished humanist, and
devoted to the revival of classical learning, collecting MSS. of the classics wherever he could
find them that might otherwise have been lost, including Quintilian's "Institutions," great
part of Lucretius, and several orations of Cicero, &c.; wrote a "History of Florence," where
he died; he was the author of a collection of stories and of jests in Latin at the expense
of the monks (1380-1459).

POINT DE GALLE (33), a town on a promontory in the SW. of Ceylon, with a good harbour, and
the great port of call for the lines of steamers in the Eastern waters.

POISSON, SIMEON-DENIS, a celebrated French mathematician, born at Pithiviers; was for his eminence
in mathematical ability and physical research raised to the peerage; wrote no fewer than 300
memoirs (1781-1840).

POITIERS (34), the capital of the dep. of Vienne, 61 m. SW. of Tours; has a number of interesting
buildings, a university and large library; in its neighbourhood Clovis defeated Alaric II.
in 507, Charles Martel the Moors in 732, and the Black Prince the troops of King John in 1356.

POITOU, formerly a province in France, lying S. of the Loire, between the Vienne River and
the sea; passed to England when its countess, Eleanor, married Henry I., 1152; was taken by
Philip Augustus 1205, ceded to England again 1360, and retaken by Charles V. 1369.

POLA (31), the chief naval station of Austria, 73 m. S. of Trieste, in the Adriatic; the harbour
is both spacious and deep; was originally a Roman colony, and a flourishing seat of commerce.

POLAND, formerly a kingdom larger than modern Austro-Hungary, with a population of 24 millions,
lying between the Baltic and the Carpathians, with Pomerania, Brandenburg, and Silesia on the
W., and the Russian provinces of Smolensk, Tchernigoff, Poltava, and Kherson on the E.; the
Dwina, the Memel, and the Vistula flowed through its northern plains; the Dnieper traversed
the E., the Dniester and the Bug rose in its SE. corner. The country is fertile; great crops
of cereals are raised; there are forests of pine and oak, and extensive pasture lands; vast
salt-mines are wrought at Cracow; silver, iron, copper, and lead in other parts. Poland took
rank among European powers in the 10th century under Mieczyslaw, its first Christian king.
During the 12th and 13th centuries it sank to the rank of a duchy. In 1241 the Mongols devastated
the country, and thereafter colonies of Germans and Jewish refugees settled among the Slav
population. The first Diet met in 1331, and Casimir the Great, 1333-1370, raised the country
to a high level of prosperity, fostering the commerce of Danzig and Cracow. The dynasty of
the Jagellons united Lithuania to Poland, ended two centuries' contest with the Teutonic knights,
and yielded to the nobles such privileges as turned the kingdom into an oligarchy and elective
monarchy. At the time of the Reformation Poland was the leading power in Eastern Europe. The
new doctrines gained ground there in spite of severe persecution. Warsaw became the capital
in 1569. The power and arrogance of the nobles grew; the necessity for unanimity in the votes
of the Diet gave them a weapon to stop all progress and all correction of their own malpractices.
Sigismund III. made unsuccessful attempts to seize the crowns of Russia and Sweden. In the
middle of the 17th century a terrible struggle against Russia, Sweden, Brandenburg and the
Cossacks ended in the complete defeat of Poland, from which she never recovered. Wars with
the Turks, dissensions among her own nobles, quarrels at the election of every king, the continuance
of serfdom, and the persecution of the adherents of the Greek Church and the Protestants, rendered
her condition more and more deplorable. Austria, Russia, and Prussia began to interfere in
her affairs. She was unfortunate in her choice of kings, and in the second half of the 18th
century she was without natural boundaries, and Frederick the Great started the idea of partition.
The first seizure of territory by the three interfering powers took place in 1772. A movement
for reform reorganised the Diet, improved the condition of the serfs, established religious
toleration, and promulgated a new constitution in 1781; but a party of unpatriotic nobles resented
it, and laid the country open to a second seizure of territory by Prussia and Russia in 1793.
The Poles now made a desperate stand under Kosciusko, but their three powerful neighbours were
too strong, and the final partition of Poland between them took place in 1795. The Congress
of Vienna rearranged the division in 1815, and reconstituted the Russian portion as a kingdom,
with the Czar as king; but discontent broke into rebellion, and led to the final repression
of independence in 1832.

POLDERS, low marshy lands in Holland and Belgium, drained and reclaimed from sea or river;
they form an important part of the former, and are conspicuous from the verdure they display;
they include nearly 150 acres of good land, the largest being that of Haarlem Meer, which is
70 square miles in extent, and was drained by steam.

POLE, the name given to the extremities of the imaginary axis of the earth, round which it
is conceived to revolve.

POLE, REGINALD, cardinal, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Stourton Castle, Staffordshire,
of royal blood; studied at Oxford; took holy orders, and was appointed to various benefices
by Henry VIII., who held him in high favour; but he opposed the project of divorcing Catherine,
and was driven from the royal presence and deprived of his power; but elected to the cardinalate
by the Pope, he tried to return after Henry's death, but was not received back till Mary's
accession, when he came as Papal legate, and was appointed Archbishop of Canterbury after the
death of Cranmer, whom he refused to supersede as long as he lived; he was not obsequious enough
to the Pope, and his legation was cancelled; the Queen's illness accelerated his own end, and
he died the day after her; he has been charged with abetting the Marian persecution, but it
is highly questionable how far he was answerable for it (1506-1558).

POLE-STAR or POLARIS, a star in the northern hemisphere, in Ursa Minor, the nearest conspicuous
one to the N. pole of the heavens, from which it is at present 1½° distant; a straight line
joining the two "pointers" in Ursa Major passes nearly through it.

POLIGNAC, DUC DE and DUCHESS DE, husband and wife; were chargeable with the extravagances of
the court of Louis XVI., and were the first to emigrate at the outbreak of the Revolution,
the former dying in 1817 and the latter in 1793.

POLIGNAC, PRINCE DE, French statesman, born at Versailles, of an old noble family, prime minister
of Charles X., to whose fall he contributed by his arbitrary measures; in attempting flight
at the Revolution was captured and sentenced to death, which was converted into banishment;
he was allowed to return at length (1780-1847).

POLITIAN, ANGELO, eminent Italian scholar, born in Tuscany; was patronised by Lorenzo de' Medici,
was made professor of Greek and Latin at the university of Florence, his fame in which capacity
drew to his class students from all parts of Europe; he did much to forward the Renaissance
movement, and was distinguished as a poet no less than as a scholar; he became a priest towards
the close of his life (1454-1494).

POLIZIANO. See POLITIAN.

POLK, JAMES KNOX, eleventh President of the United States, of Irish descent; admitted to the
bar in 1820, entered Congress in 1825, became President in 1844, his term of office having
been signalised by the annexation of Texas and California (1795-1849).

POLLIO, CAIUS ASINIUS, orator, historian, and poet, born at Rome; sided with Cæsar against
Pompey, and after the death of the former with Antony; was a patron of letters and the friend
of Virgil and Horace, both of whom dedicated poems to him; he was the first to establish a
public library in Rome (76 B.C. to A.D. 4).

POLLOCK, SIR EDWARD, an eminent English judge, born in London, contemporary of Brougham, a
Tory in politics, represented Huntingdon, was twice over Attorney-General, became Chief Baron
of the Exchequer in 1844, and made a baronet on his retirement from the bench (1783-1870).

POLLOCK, SIR GEORGE, field-marshal, born at Westminster, brother of the preceding; distinguished
himself in Nepal and the Afghan War, in the latter forced the Kyber Pass, defeated Akbar Khan,
and relieved Sir Robert Sale, who was shut up in Jelallabad (1786-1872).

POLLOK, ROBERT, Scottish poet, born in Renfrewshire; bred for the Secession Church, wrote one
poem, "The Course of Time," in 10 books, on the spiritual life and human destiny, which was
published when he was dying of consumption, a complaint accelerated, it is believed, by his
studious habits (1799-1827).

POLLUX, the twin brother of Castor (q. v.).

POLO, a game similar to hockey, played on horseback with mallets, and devised by British officers
in India in place of football.

POLO, MARCO, a celebrated traveller, born in Venice of a noble family in 1271; accompanied
his father and uncle while a mere youth to the court of the Great Khan, the Tartar emperor
of China, by whom he was received with favour and employed on several embassies; unwilling
to part with him the emperor allowed him along with his father and uncle to escort a young
princess who was going to be married to a Persian prince on the promise that they would return,
but the prince having died before their arrival, and deeming themselves absolved from their
promise by his death, they moved straight home for Venice, where they arrived in 1295, laden
with rich presents which had been given them; having fallen into the hands of the Genoese in
a hostile expedition, Marco was put in prison, where he wrote the story of his adventures,
originally in French it would seem, which proved to be the first account that opened up to
wondering Europe the magnificence of the Eastern world (1255-1323).

POLYANDRY, the name given to a form of polygamy met with among certain rude races, under which
a woman is united and lives in marriage to several husbands.

POLYBIUS, a Greek historian, born at Megalopolis, in Arcadia; sent to Rome as a hostage, he
formed an intimate friendship with Scipio Æmilianus, who aided him in his historical researches,
and whom he accompanied to Africa on the expedition which issued in the destruction of Carthage,
after which he returned to Greece and began his literary labours, the fruit of which was a
history of Greece and Rome from 220 to 146 B.C. in 40 books, of which 5 have come down to us
complete, a work characterised by accurate statement of facts and sound judgment of their import,
written with a purpose to instruct in practical wisdom; he has been called "the first pragmatical
historian" (204-122 B.C.).

POLYCARP, bishop of Smyrna, one of the early Fathers of the Church, a disciple of the Apostles
and in particular of St. John; was for nearly 70 years bishop, and suffered martyrdom for refusing
to renounce Christ, "after having served Him," as he said, "for 86 years"; of his writings
the only one extant is an "Epistle to the Philippians," the genuineness of which, at one time
questioned, is now established, and is of value chiefly in questions affecting the canon of
Scripture and the origin of the Church.

POLYCRATES, the tyrant of Samos, and friend of Anacreon and art and literature generally; formed
an alliance with Amasis, king of Egypt, who, struck with his prosperity, ascribed it to the
envy of the gods, insinuating that they intended his ruin thereby, and advised him, in order
to avert his impending doom, to throw the most valuable of his possessions into the sea, upon
which he threw a signet ring of great price and beauty, to find it again in the mouth of a
fish a fisherman had sold him; still, though upon this Amasis broke alliance with him, his
prosperity clung to him, till one day he was allured by a Persian satrap, his enemy, away from
Samos, and by him crucified to death, 521 B.C.

POLYGNOTUS, an early Greek painter, born in Thasos, and settled in Athens 463 B.C.; is considered
the founder of historical painting, and is praised especially by Aristotle, who pays a high
tribute to him; was the first to attempt portrait-painting and exhibit character by his art.

POLYHYMNIA, one of the nine MUSES (q. v.); she is represented as in a pensive mood, with her
forefinger on her mouth; she was the inventress of the lyre and the mother of Orpheus.

POLYNESIA is the collective name of all the islands of the Pacific of coral or volcanic origin.
These South Sea islands are scattered, isolated, or more usually in groups over a stretch of
ocean 7000 m. from N. to S. and 6000 from E. to W.; with the exception of the two chief members
of the New Zealand archipelago they are mostly small, and exhibit wonderful uniformity of climate;
the temperature is moderate, and where there are any hills to intercept the moisture-laden
trade-winds the rainfall is high; they are extremely rich in flora; characteristic of their
vegetation are palms, bread fruit trees, and edible roots like yams and sweet potatoes, forests
of tree-ferns, myrtles, and ebony, with endless varieties of beautiful flowering plants; their
fauna is wonderfully poor, varieties of rats and bats, a few snakes, frogs, spiders, and centipedes,
with the crocodile, being the chief indigenous animals; the three divisions of Polynesia are
Micronesia, comprising five small archipelagoes in the NW., N. of the equator, of which the
chief are the Mariana and Caroline groups; Melanesia, comprising eleven archipelagoes in the
W., S. of the equator, of which the largest are the Solomon, Bismarck, Fiji, New Caledonia,
and New Hebrides groups; and Eastern Polynesia, E. of these on both sides of the equator, including
New Zealand, Hawaii, and Samoa, ten other archipelagoes, and numerous sporadic islands; the
first of these divisions is occupied by a mixed population embracing many distinct elements,
the second by the black, low-type Melanesians, the third by the light brown, tall Polynesians;
traces of extinct civilisation are found in Easter Island and the Carolines; most of the islands
are now in the possession of European powers, and are more or less Christianised; New Zealand
is one of the most enterprising and flourishing colonies of Great Britain; everywhere the native
races are dying out before the immigration of Europeans.

POLYPHEMUS, in Homeric legend a son of Neptune, the most celebrated of the Cyclops, a huge
monster with one eye, who dwelt in Sicily in a cave near Ætna, and whose eye, after making
him drunk, Ulysses burnt out, lest he should circumvent him and devour him, as he had done
some of his companions.

POLYTECHNIC SCHOOL, an institution for teaching the practical arts and the related sciences,
especially such as depend on mathematics.

POLYTHEISM, a belief in a plurality of gods each with a sphere of his own, and each in general
a personification of some elemental power concerned in the government of the world.

POMBAL, MARQUIS DE, a great Portuguese statesman, born in Coimbra; was Prime Minister of Joseph
I.; partial to the philosophic opinions of the 18th century, he set himself to fortify the
royal power, to check that of the aristocracy, and to enlighten the people; he was the pronounced
enemy of the Jesuits, reformed the University of Coimbra, purified the administration, encouraged
commerce and industry, whereby he earned for himself at the hands of the people the name of
the Great Marquis; on the accession of Maria, Joseph's daughter and successor, he was, under
Jesuit influence, dispossessed of power, to die in poverty (1699-1782).

POMERANIA (1,521), a Prussian province lying between the Baltic and Brandenburg, with West
Prussia on the E. and Mecklenburg on the W., is a flat and in some parts sandy country, with
no hills, many lakes, and a large lagoon, the Stettiner Haff, into which the chief river, the
Oder, falls; the islands of Wallin, Usedom, and Rügen belong to the province; the main industry
is agriculture, principal products rye and potatoes; poultry-rearing and fishing are extensively
carried on; there are shipbuilding, machine-works, sugar and chemical factories; Stettin, the
capital, and Stralsund are important trading centres; a university is at Greifswald; the Slavic
population embraced Christianity in the 12th century; shortly afterwards the duke joined the
German Empire; after the Thirty Years' War much of the province fell to Sweden, and the whole
was not finally ceded to Prussia till 1815.

POMONA, or MAINLAND, the largest island in the Orkneys, has a low treeless surface, many lakes,
and extensive pasture-land; agriculture has of late improved, and, with stock-raising and fishing,
is the chief industry; the only towns are Kirkwall and Stromness.

POMONA, in the Roman mythology is the goddess of fruits, who presided over their ripening and
in-gathering, and was generally represented bearing fruits in her lap or in a basket.

POMPADOUR, MARQUISE DE, a famous mistress of Louis XV., born in Paris; celebrated for her beauty
and wit; throwing herself, though a married woman, in the king's way, she took his fancy, and
was installed at Versailles; for 20 years exercised an influence both over him and the affairs
of the kingdom, to the corruption and ruin of both, and the exasperation of the nation; she
was preceded as mistress of Louis by La Châteroux, and succeeded by Du Barri (1721-1764).

POMPEII, an ancient Italian seaport on the Bay of Naples, fell into the possession of Rome
about 80 B.C., and was converted into a watering-place and "the pleasure haunt of paganism";
the Romans erected many handsome public buildings, and their villas and theatres and baths
were models of classic architecture and the scenes of unbounded luxury; the streets were narrow,
provided with side-walks, the walls often decorated with painting or scribbled over by idle
gamins; the number of shops witnesses to the fashion and gaiety of the town, the remains of
painted notices to its municipal life; a terrible earthquake ruined it and drove out the inhabitants
in A.D. 63; they returned and rebuilt it, however, in a tawdry and decadent style, and luxury
and pleasure reigned as before till in A.D. 79 an eruption of Vesuvius buried everything in
lava and ashes; the ruins were forgotten till accidentally discovered in 1748; since 1860 the
city has been disinterred under the auspices of the Italian Government, and is now a favourite
resort of tourists and archæologists.

POMPEY, CNEIUS, surnamed the Great, Roman general and statesman; entered into public life after
the death of Marius; associated himself with Sulla; distinguished himself in Africa and in
the Mithridatic War; was raised to the consulate with Crassus in 71 B.C.; cleared the Mediterranean
Sea of pirates in 67-66; formed against the Senate, along with Cæsar and Crassus, the first
triumvirate, and in 54 entered into rivalry with Cæsar; after a desperate struggle he was defeated
at Pharsalia, and escaping to Egypt, was assassinated there by orders of Ptolemy XII. (106-48
B.C.).

POMPEY'S PILLAR, a block of red granite near Alexandria, forming a pillar 98 ft. 3 in. high;
erected in honour of the Emperor Diocletian, who conquered Alexandria in 296. The name is an
invention of some mistaken early traveller.

PONCE DE LEON, Spanish navigator; conquered Porto Rico in 1510, and discovered Florida in 1512.
Also the name of a Spanish poet; was a professor of Theology at Salamanca; was translator of
the Song of Solomon, and wrote a commentary on it in Latin.

PONCHO, a kind of cloak or shawl, of woollen or alpaca cloth, oblong in shape, with a slit
in the centre, through which the wearer passes his head, allowing the folds to cover his shoulders
and arms to the elbows, and to fall down before and behind; worn by the native men in Chili
and Argentina. Ponchos of waterproof are used by the United States cavalry.

PONDICHERRY (173), a small French colony on the E. coast of India, 53 m. S. of Madras; was
first occupied in 1674. It was captured by the Dutch in 1693, and by the English successively
in 1761, 1778, and 1793, but on each occasion restored. The capital, Pondicherry (41), is the
capital of the French possessions in India; has handsome tree-lined streets, government buildings,
college, lighthouse, cotton mills, and dye-works. The harbour is an open roadstead; trade is
small, the chief export oil seeds.

PONDOS, a branch of Zulu-Kaffirs, 200,000 in number, occupying territory called Pondo Land,
annexed to Cape Colony, in South Africa.

PONIATOWSKI, PRINCE JOSEPH, Polish general, born in Warsaw; commanded the Polish contingent
that accompanied Napoleon in his expedition into Russia in 1812; was created Marshal of France
on the field of Leipzig; covered the retreat of the French army, and was drowned crossing the
Elster; his chivalrous bravery earned him the honourable appellation of the Polish Bayard;
he was buried at Cracow, and his remains placed beside those of Sobieski and Kosciusko (1762-1813).

PONS ASINORUM (i. e. Bridge of Asses), the fifth proposition in the 1st book of Euclid, so
called for the difficulty many a tyro has in mastering it.

PONSONBY, SIR FREDERICK CAVENDISH, military officer; served in the Peninsular War; distinguished
himself at Waterloo; lay wounded all night after the engagement; was conveyed next day in a
cart to the village with seven wounds in his body; was a great favourite with the army (1783-1837).

PONTEFRACT (16), an ancient market-town of Yorkshire, 13 m. SE. of Leeds; has a castle in which
Richard II. died, and which suffered four sieges in the Civil War, a market hall, grammar school,
and large market-gardens, where liquorice for the manufacture of Pomfret cakes is grown.

PONTIFEX MAXIMUS, the chief of the college of priests in ancient Rome, the officiating priests
being called Flamens.

PONTIFICAL, a service-book of the Romish Church, containing prayers and rites for a performance
of public worship by the Pope or bishop; also in the plural the name of the full dress of an
officiating priest.

PONTINE MARSHES, a district, 26 m. by 17, in the S. of the Campagna of Rome, one of the three
malarial districts of Italy, and the most unhealthy of the three, extending about 30 m. in
length and 10 or 11 in varying breadth, is grazing ground for herds of cattle, horses, and
buffaloes. Many unsuccessful attempts have been made to drain these marshes.

PONTUS, the classical name of a country on the SE. shores of the Black Sea, stretching from
the river Halys to the borders of Armenia; is represented by the modern Turkish provinces of
Trebizond and Sivas. Originally a Persian province, it became independent shortly after 400
B.C., and remained so till part was annexed to Bithynia in 65 B.C., and the rest constituted
a Roman province in A.D. 63.

POOLE (15), a seaport of Dorsetshire, 5 m. W. of Bournemouth; has a trade in potters' and pipe-clay,
with considerable shipping.

POOLE, MATTHEW, English controversialist and commentator, born at York, educated at Cambridge;
became rector of St. Michael le Querne in London, but was expelled from his living by the Act
of Uniformity 1662; retiring to Holland he died at Amsterdam; besides polemics against Rome
he compiled a "Synopsis Criticorum Biblicorum," containing the opinions of 150 Biblical critics
(1624-1679).

POONA (160), 119 m. by rail SE. of Bombay, is the chief military station in the Deccan, and
in the hot season the centre of government in the Bombay Presidency; with narrow streets and
poor houses, it is surrounded by gardens; here are the Deccan College, College of Science,
and other schools; the English quarters are in the cantonments; silk, cotton, and jewellery
are manufactured; it was the capital of the Mahrattas, and was annexed by Britain in 1818.

POOR RICHARD, the name assumed by FRANKLIN (q. v.) in his almanacs.

POPE (i. e. Papa), a title originally given to all bishops of the Church, and eventually appropriated
by Leo the Great, the bishop of Rome, as the supreme pontiff in 449, a claim which in 1054
created the Great Schism, and which asserted itself territorially as well as spiritually, till
now at length the Pope has been compelled to resign all territorial power. The present Pope,
Pius X., is the successor of 258 who occupied before him the Chair of St. Peter.

POPE, ALEXANDER, eminent English poet, born in London, of Roman Catholic parents; was a sickly
child, and marred by deformity, and imperfectly educated; began to write verse at 12 in which
he afterwards became such a master; his "Pastorals" appeared in 1709, "Essay on Criticism"
in 1711, and "Rape of the Lock" in 1712, in the production of which he was brought into relationship
with the leading literary men of the time, and in particular Swift, between whom and him a
lifelong friendship was formed; in 1715-20 appeared his translation of the "Iliad," and in
1723-25 that of the "Odyssey," for which two works, it is believed, he received some £9000;
afterwards, in 1728, appeared the "Dunciad," a scathing satire of all the small fry of poets
and critics that had annoyed him, and in 1732 appeared the first part of the famous "Essay
on Man"; he was a vain man, far from amiable, and sometimes vindictive to a degree, though
he was capable of warm attachments, and many of his faults were due to a not unnatural sensitiveness
as a deformed man; but as a poet he is entitled to the homage which Professor Saintsbury pays
when he characterises him as "one of the greatest masters of poetic form that the world has
ever seen" (1688-1744).

POPISH PLOT, an imaginary plot devised by TITUS OATES (q. v.) on the part of the Roman Catholics
in Charles II.'s reign; in the alleged connection a number of innocent people lost their lives.

PORCH, THE, the name given to the school of ZENO (q. v.), so called from the Arcade in Athens,
in which he taught his philosophy, a "many-coloured portico," as decorated with the paintings
of POLYGNOTUS (q. v.).

PORCUPINE, PETER, a pseudonym assumed by WILLIAM COBBETT (q. v.).

PORPHYRY, a Neo-Platonic philosopher of Alexandria, born at Tyre; resorted to Rome and became
a disciple of PLOTINUS (q. v.), whose works he edited; he wrote a work against Christianity,
known only from the replies (233-305).

PORSENA, a king of Etruria, famous in the early history of Rome, who took up arms to restore
Tarquin, the last king, but was reconciled to the Roman people from the brave feats he saw,
certain of them accomplished, as well as the formidable power of endurance they displayed.

PORSON, RICHARD, eminent Greek scholar, born in Norfolk; was a prodigy of learning and critical
acumen; edited the plays of Æschylus and four of Euripides, but achieved little in certification
to posterity of his ability and attainments; was a man of slovenly and intemperate habits,
and died of apoplexy (1759-1808).

PORT ARTHUR, a naval station on the peninsula extending S. into the Gulf of Pechili; conceded
to Russia on a lease of 99 years.

PORT DARWIN, one of the finest harbours in Australia; is on the N. coast opposite Bathurst
Island; on its shores stands Palmerston, terminus of the overland telegraph, the cable to Java,
and a railway to the gold mines 150 m. inland.

PORT ELIZABETH (25), the third largest town and chief trading centre of Cape Colony; stands
on Algoa Bay, 85 m. SW. of Grahamstown; it has magnificent public buildings, parks, and squares,
a college, library, and museum. It is the chief port in the E. of the colony and for Natal,
the principal exports being wools, hides, and ostrich feathers.

PORT GLASGOW (15), a Renfrewshire seaport on the S. shore of the Firth of Clyde, 3 m. E. of
Greenock and 20 W. of Glasgow; was founded by the magistrates of Glasgow in 1668 as a port
for that city before the deepening of the river was projected. In the beginning of the 18th
century it was the chief port on the Clyde, but has since been surpassed by Greenock and Glasgow
itself. There are shipbuilding, iron and brass founding industries, and extensive timber ponds.

PORT LOUIS (62), capital of Mauritius, on the NW. coast; is the chief port of the colony, with
an excellent harbour, and contains the British government buildings, a Protestant and a Roman
Catholic cathedral, barracks, and military store-houses. It is a naval coaling-station.

PORT ROYAL, a convent founded in 1204, 8 m. SW. of Versailles, and which in the 17th century
became the head-quarters of JANSENISM (q. v.), and the abode of Antoine Lemaitre, Antoine Arnauld,
and others, known as the "Solitaires of the Port Royal." They were distinguished for their
austerity, their piety, and their learning, in evidence of which last they established a school
of instruction, in connection with which they prepared a series of widely famous educational works.

PORT-AU-PRINCE (20), on the W. coast of Hayti, on Port-au-Prince Bay, is the capital; a squalid
town; exports coffee, cocoa, logwood, hides, and mahogany.

PORTCULLIS, a strong grating resembling a harrow hanging over the gateway of a fortress, let
down in a groove of the wall in the case of a surprise.

PORTE, SUBLIME, or simply the Porte, is a name given to the Turkish Government.

PORTEOUS MOB, the name given a mob that collected in the city of Edinburgh on the night of
the 7th September 1736, broke open the Tolbooth jail, and dragged to execution in the Grassmarket
one Captain Porteous, captain of the City Guard, who on the occasion of a certain riot had
ordered his men to fire on the crowd to the death of some and the wounding of others, and had
been tried and sentenced to death, but, to the indignation of the citizens, had been respited.
The act was one for which the authorities in the city were held responsible by the Government,
and the city had to pay to Porteous' widow £1500.

PORTER, JANE, English novelist, born in Durham; her most famous novels were "Thaddeus of Warsaw"
(1803) and "The Scottish Chiefs" (1810), both highly popular in their day, the latter particularly;
it induced Scott to go on with Waverley; died at Bristol (1776-1850).

PORTER, NOAH, American philosophical writer, born at Farmington, Connecticut, educated at Yale;
was a Congregationalist minister 1836-46, then professor of Moral Philosophy at Yale, and afterwards
President of the college; Edinburgh University granted him the degree of D.D. in 1886; among
his works are "The Human Intellect" and "Books and Reading"; b. 1811.

PORTEUS, BEILBY, English churchman, born at York, of American parentage; graduated and became
Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, and took orders in 1757; from the rectory of Hunton,
Kent, he was preferred to that of Lambeth in 1767, thence to the bishopric of Chester in 1776,
and to that of London 1787; a poor scholar, he yet wrote some popular books, especially a "Summary
of Christian Evidences," and "Lectures on St. Matthew's Gospel"; he posed as a Sabbatarian
and an advocate of the abolition of slavery (1731-1809).

PORTIA, the rich heiress in the "Merchant of Venice," whose destiny in marriage depended, as
ordained by her father, on the discretion of the wooer to choose the one of the three caskets
that contained her portrait.

PORTLAND, 1, the largest city (50) and principal seaport of Maine, stands on a peninsula in
Casco Bay, 108 in. NE. of Boston by rail. It has extensive wharfs, dry-docks, and grain-elevators,
engineer shops, shoe-factories, and sugar-refineries. Settled as an English colony in 1632,
it was ravaged by fire in 1866. Longfellow was born here. 2, largest city (90) in Oregon, on
the Willamette River, nearly 800 m. N. of San Francisco; is a handsome city, with numerous
churches and schools; there are iron-foundries, mechanics' shops, canneries, and flour-mills;
railway communication connects it with St. Paul and Council Bluffs, and the river being navigable
for deep-sea steamers, it is a thriving port of entry.

PORTLAND, ISLE OF, a rocky peninsula in the SW. of Dorsetshire, connected by Chesil Bank and
the Mainland; is famous as the source of great quantities of fine building limestone; here
is also a convict-prison opened 1848, accommodating 1500 prisoners.

PORTLAND VASE, an ancient cinerary urn of dark blue glass ornamented with Greek mythological
figures carved in a layer of white enamel found near Rome about 1640, and which came into the
possession of the Portland family in 1787, and is now in the British Museum. It is ten inches
high and seven inches round.

PORTO RICO (814), a West Indian island, half the size of Wales, 75 m. E. of Hayti, is well
watered and very fertile. Ranges of hills run from E. to W., and are covered with valuable
timber. Sugar, coffee, and rice are the principal crops; tobacco and tropical fruits are grown;
cattle and horses are reared. Textile goods, hardware, and provisions are imported; the exports
are sugar, coffee, tobacco, and cattle. The capital is St. John's (24), Mayaguez (27), and
Ponce (40), the other towns. The island was discovered by Columbus, who called it Hispaniola,
in 1493. Colonised by Spain in 1510, it attempted unsuccessfully to gain independence in 1820-23.
The abolition of slavery in 1873, and the growth of population, marked the remainder of its
history as a Spanish colony. It was seized by the United States in the war of 1898.

PORTOBELLO (8), a Midlothian watering-place on the Firth of Forth, 3 m. E. of Edinburgh, with
which it is now incorporated for municipal purposes; has a fine esplanade and promenade pier,
and manufactures of pottery, bricks, and bottles.

PORTSMOUTH, 1, largest city (10) of New Hampshire, and only seaport in the State, on the Piscataqua
River, 3 m. from the ocean; is by rail 57 m. NE. of Boston, a handsome old town and favourite
watering-place; near it is a U.S. navy-yard. 2, (12), On the Ohio River, in Ohio; is the centre
of an extensive iron industry. 3, (13), Seaport and naval station on the Elizabeth River, Virginia.

PORTSMOUTH (159), the most important British naval station, a seaport and market-town, is situated
on Portsea Island, on the coast of Hants, 15 m. SE. of Southampton. It is an unimposing town,
but strongly fortified. St. Thomas's and Garrison Chapel are old churches with historical associations.
The naval dockyards contain 12 docks lined with masonry, vast store-houses, wood-mills, anchor-forges,
and building-slips. Some of the docks are roofed over, as also is a large building-slip on
which four vessels may be constructed at once. The harbour can receive the largest war-vessels,
and in Spithead roadstead 1000 ships can anchor at once. The trade of Portsmouth is dependent
on the dockyards. It owes its defences to Edward IV. Elizabeth, and William III. It was the
scene of Buckingham's assassination and of the loss of the Royal George. Three novelists were
born here--Dickens, Meredith, and Besant.

PORTUGAL (5,000), a country as large as Ireland, bounded on the S. and W. by the Atlantic,
on the N. and E. by Spain, from which at different places it is separated by the rivers Minho,
Douro, Tagus, and Guadiana; consists of the Atlantic slopes of the great peninsular tableland,
and has a moist, warm atmosphere, heavy rains, and frequent fogs. The above rivers and the
Mondego traverse it; their valleys are fertile, the mountain slopes covered with forests. In
the N. the oak abounds, in the centre the chestnut, in the S. cork-trees and palms. Agriculture,
carried on with primitive implements, is the chief industry. Indian corn, wheat, and in the
S. rice, are extensively grown; the vine yields the most valuable crops, but in the N. it is
giving place to tobacco. There are a few textile factories. The largest export is wine; the
others, cork, copper ore, and onions, which are sent to Great Britain, Brazil, and France.
The principal imports, iron, textiles, and grain. The capital is Lisbon, on the Tagus, one
of the finest towns in the world. Oporto, the chief manufacturing centre, and second city for
commerce, is at the mouth of the Douro. Braga was once the capital. Coimbra, on the Mondego,
is the rainiest place in Europe. There are good roads between the chief towns, 1200 m. of railway
and 3000 m. of telegraph. The people are a mixed race, showing traces of Arab, Berber, and
Negro blood, with a predominance of northern strains. They are courteous and gentle; the peasantry
hard-working and thrifty. Roman Catholic is the national faith, but they are tolerant of other
religions. The language is closely akin to Spanish. Education is backward. The Government is
a limited monarchy, there being two houses of Parliament--Peers and Deputies. The Azores and
Madeira are part of the kingdom; there are colonies in Africa and Asia, in which slavery was
abolished only in 1878. The 14th and 15th centuries saw the zenith of Portugal's fortunes.
At that time, in strict alliance with England, she raised herself by her enterprise to the
foremost maritime and commercial power of Europe; her navigators founded Brazil, and colonised
India. Diaz in 1487 discovered and Vasco da Gama in 1497 doubled the Cape of Good Hope. In
1520 Magellan sailed round the world; but in the 16th century the extensive emigration, the
expulsion of the Jews, the introduction of the Inquisition, and the spread of Jesuit oppression,
led to a speedy downfall. For a time she was annexed to Spain. Regaining her independence,
she threw herself under the protection of England, her traditional friend, during the Napoleonic
struggle. She is now an inconsiderable power, commercially thriving, politically restless,
financially unsound.

POSEIDON, in the Greek mythology the god of the sea, a son of Kronos and Rhea, and brother
of Zeus, Pluto, Hera, Hestia, and Demeter; had his home in the sea depths, on the surface of
which he appeared with a long beard, seated in a chariot drawn by brazen-hoofed horses with
golden manes, and wielding a trident, which was the symbol of his power, exercised in production
of earthquake and storms. See PLUTO.

POSEN (1,752), a province of Prussia on the Russian frontier, surrounded by West Prussia, Brandenburg,
and Silesia; belongs to the great North German plain; has several lakes, and is traversed by
the navigable Warthe, Netze, and Vistula. The prevailing industry is agriculture; the crops
are grain, potatoes, and hops; there are some manufactures of machinery and cloth. Originally
part of Poland, half the population are Poles; except the Jews, most of the people are Catholics.
The capital is POSEN (70), on the Warthe, by rail 185 m. E. of Berlin. It is a pleasant town,
with a cathedral, museum, and library, manufactures of manure and agricultural implements,
breweries and distilleries. It is now a fortress of the first rank. Gnesen and Bromberg are
the other chief towns.

POSIDONIUS, an eminent Stoic philosopher, born in Syria; established himself in Rhodes, where
he rose to eminence; was visited by Cicero and Pompey, both of whom became his pupils; maintained
that pain was no evil; "in vain, O Pain," he exclaimed one day under the pangs of it, "in vain
thou subjectest me to torture; it is not in thee to extort from me the reproach that thou art
an evil" (135-34 B.C.).

POSITIVISM, the philosophy so called of AUGUSTE COMTE (q. v.), the aim of which is to propound
a new arrangement of the sciences and a new theory of the evolution of science; the sciences
he classes under the categories of abstract and concrete, and his law of evolution is that
every department of knowledge passes in the history of it through three successive stages,
and only in the last of which it is entitled to the name of science--the Theological stage,
in which everything is referred to the intervention of the gods; the Metaphysical, in which
everything is referred to an abstract idea; and the Positive, which, discarding at once theology
and philosophy, contents itself with the study of phenomena and their sequence, and regards
that as science proper. Thus is positivism essentially definable, in Dr. Stirling's words,
as "a method which replaces all outlying agencies, whether Theological deities or Metaphysical
entities, by Positive laws; which laws, and in their phenomenal relativity, as alone what can
be known, ought alone to constitute what is sought to be known." See Dr. Stirling's "SCHWEGLER."

POSSE COMITATUS, a Latin expression, signifies the whole coercive power of a county called
out in the case of a riot, and embraces all males over 15 except peers, ecclesiastics, and
infirm persons. These may be summoned by the sheriff to assist in maintaining the public peace,
enforcing a writ, or capturing a felon; but usually the constabulary is sufficient for these
duties.

POST RESTANTE, department of a post-office where letters lie till they are called for.

POTEMKIN, Russian officer, born at Smolensk, of Polish descent; a handsome man with a powerful
physique, who attracted the attention of Catharine II., became one of her chief favourites,
and directed the foreign policy of Russia under her for 13 years; is understood to have been
an able man, but unscrupulous (1736-1771).

POTOMAC RIVER, rising in the Alleghany Mountaine, flows 400 m. eastward between Maryland and
the Virginias into Chesapeake Bay; the Shenandoah is the chief tributary. The river is navigable
as far up as Cumberland, and is tidal up to Washington, which is on its banks.

POTOSI (12), an important mining and commercial town of Bolivia, situated 13,000 ft. above
sea-level on the slopes of the Cerro de Potosi; is one of the loftiest inhabited places on
the globe, but a dilapidated, squalid place. There is a cathedral, next to Lima the finest
in South America, a mint, and extensive reservoirs; the streets are steep and without vehicles;
the climate is cold, and the surrounding hillsides barren; the industry is silver mining, but
the mines are becoming exhausted and flooded.

POTSDAM (54), 18 m. SW. of Berlin, stands on an island at the confluence of the Nuthe and Havel,
and is the capital of the Prussian province of Brandenburg; a handsome town, with broad streets,
many parks and squares, numberless statues and fine public buildings; it is a favourite residence
of Prussian royalty, and has several royal palaces; was the birthplace of Alexander von Humboldt;
has sugar and chemical works, and a large violet-growing industry.

POTT, AUGUST FRIEDRICH, eminent philologist, born in Hanover; wrote on the Indo-Germanic languages,
a work which ranks next in importance to Bopp's "Comparative Grammar"; he was the author of
a number of philological papers which appeared in the learned journals of the day (1802-1887).

POTTER, JOHN, archbishop of Canterbury, born in Yorkshire, son of a draper, a distinguished
scholar; author of "Archæologia Græca," a work on the antiquities of Greece, and for long the
authority on that subject (1674-1747).

POTTER, PAUL, a great Dutch animal-painter, lived chiefly at Amsterdam and The Hague; his most
celebrated picture, life-size, is the "Young Bull," now at The Hague (1625-1654).

POTTERIES, THE, a district in North Staffordshire, 9 m. long by 3 broad, the centre of the
earthenware manufacture of England; it includes Hanley, Burslem, Stoke-upon-Trent, &c.

POT-WALLOPERS (i. e. Pot-boilers), a popular name given prior to the Reform Bill of 1832 to
a class of electors in a borough who claimed the right to vote on the ground of boiling a pot
within its limits for six months.

POURPARLER, a diplomatic conference towards the framing of a treaty.

POUSSIN, NICOLAS, one of the most illustrious of French painters, born near Andelys, in Normandy;
studied first in Paris and then at Rome, where he first attained celebrity, whence he was in
1640 invited to Paris by Louis XIII., who appointed him painter-in-ordinary, with a studio
in the Tuileries, returning three years after to Rome, where he died; he is the author of numerous
great works, among which may be mentioned the "Shepherds of Arcadia," "The Deluge," "Moses
drawn out of the Water," "The Flight into Egypt," &c., all of which display simplicity of taste,
nobility of character, and artistic talent of a high order (1594-1665).

POWELL, BADEN, physicist, rationalist in theology, born in London; was Savilian professor of
Geometry at Oxford, wrote a number of treatises on physical subjects, and contributed to the
famous "Essays and Reviews" an essay on the evidences of Christianity which gave no small offence
to orthodox people (1796-1860).

POWELL, MAJOR, American geologist and ethnologist, born in New York State; served in the Civil
War, explored the cañon of Colorado, and became Director of the U.S. Geological Survey; has
written on geological and ethnological subjects; b. 1834.

POWERS, HIRAM, American sculptor, born in Vermont; began his career by modelling busts at Washington,
in 1837 emigrated to Italy, and resided the rest of his life at Florence, where he produced
his "Eve," his "Greek Slave," and other works (1807-1873).

POYNINGS'S LAW, an Act of Parliament held at Drogheda in 1495 in the reign of Henry VII., declaring
that all statutes hitherto passed in England should be also in force in Ireland, so called
from Sir Edward Poynings, the lieutenant of Ireland at the time.

POYNTER, EDWARD JOHN, painter, born in Paris; was educated in England, studied in Rome and
Paris, and settled in London in 1860; held appointments at University College and at Kensington,
but resigned them in 1881 to prosecute his art, which he has since assiduously done, and with
distinction; was elected President of the Royal Academy in 1896; is the author of "Lectures
on Art"; b. 1836.

POZZO DI BORGO, COUNT, the lifelong enemy of Napoleon, born in Ajaccio, Corsica; was a partisan
of Paoli; obliged to flee from Corsica, took refuge in London, in Vienna, and then in Russia,
and plotted everywhere to compass the ruin of his arch-enemy; seduced, out of simple hatred
of him, Bernadotte from the service of Napoleon, and egged on the allies against France; represented
Russia at the Congress of Vienna, and died in Paris (1764-1842).

POZZUOLI (12), an Italian city on the Bay of Naples, is noted for its classical remains; the
cathedral was once the temple of Augustus; there are ruins of other temples, a forum, and the
ancient harbour of Puteoli, where St. Paul landed; the town has been submerged and partially
raised again by volcanic action; Mount Solfatara, behind, supplies medicinal gases and springs;
near it are the Italian works of Armstrong of Elswick.

P. P., CLERK OF THIS PARISH, the feigned author of a volume of memoirs written by Arbuthnot
in ridicule of Burnet's "History of My Own Times."

PRAED, WINTHROP MACKWORTH, witty facile versifier and politician, born in London; practised
in verse-making from a boy, notably at Eton; bred for the bar, entered Parliament as a Tory
in 1830, and rose into office; wrote several verse-tales, some pieces of promise, such as "Arminius"
and "My Pretty Josephine," a grotesque production called "The Red Fisherman," and exquisite
vers de société (1802-1839).

PRÆTOR, a Roman magistrate at first, virtually a third consul, with administrative functions,
chiefly judiciary, originally in the city, and ultimately in the provinces as well, so that
the number of them increased at one time to as many as 16.

PRÆTORIAN GUARD, a select body of soldiers distributed in cohorts, as many as ten of a thousand
each, to guard the person and maintain the power of the emperors, and who at length acquired
such influence in the State as to elect and depose at will the emperors themselves, disposing
at times of the imperial purple to the highest bidder, till they were in the end outnumbered
and dispersed by Constantine in 312.

PRAGMATIC SANCTION, a term applied to "an ordinance of a very irrevocable nature which a sovereign
makes in affairs belonging wholly to himself, or what he reckons within his own right," but
applied more particularly to the decree promulgated by Charles VI., emperor of Germany, whereby
he vested the right of succession to the throne of Austria in his daughter, Maria Theresa,
wife of Francis of Lorraine, a succession which was guaranteed by France, the States-General,
and the most of the European Powers.

PRAGUE (310), capital of Bohemia, on the Moldau, 217 m. by rail NW. of Vienna, is a picturesque
city with over 70 towers, a great royal palace, unfinished cathedral, an old town-hall, a picture-gallery,
observatory, botanical garden, and museums; the University, partly German and partly Czech,
has 300 teachers, 4000 students, and a magnificent library; the centre of an important transit
trade, Prague is the chief commercial city of Bohemia; has manufactures of machinery, chemicals,
leather, and textile goods; four-fifths of the population are Czechs; founded in the 12th century,
it has suffered in many wars; was captured by the Hussites 1424, fell frequently during the
Thirty Years' War, capitulated to Frederick the Great 1757, and in 1848 was bombarded for two
days by the Austrian Government in quelling the democratic demonstrations of the Slavonic Congress
of that year.

PRAIRIE, name given by the French to an extensive tract of flat or rolling land covered with
tall, waving grass, mostly destitute of trees, and forming the great central plain of North
America, which extends as far N. as Canada.

PRAKRIT, name given to a group of Hindu languages based on Sanskrit.

PRATIQUE, license given to a ship to enter port on assurance from the captain to convince the
authorities that she is free from contagious disease.

PRAXITELES, great Greek sculptor, born at Athens; executed statues in both bronze and marble,
and was unrivalled in the exhibition of the softer beauties of the human form, especially the
female figure, his most celebrated being the marble one of Aphrodité at Cnidus; he executed
statues of Eros, Apollo, and Hermes as well, but they have all perished.

PRAYING-WHEELS, cylinders with printed prayers on them, driven by hand, water, or wind-power,
in use among the Buddhists of Thibet.

PRE-ADAMITES, a race presumed to have existed on the earth prior to Adam; traditional first
fathers of the Jews.

PRECESSION OF THE EQUINOXES, name given to the gradual shifting of the equinoctial points along
the ecliptic from east to west. See EQUINOXES.

PRÉCIEUSES RIDICULES, a play of Molière's, published in 1653, directed against the affectations
of certain literary coteries of the day.

PREDESTINATION, the eternal decree which in particular foreordains certain of the human family
to life everlasting and others to death everlasting, or the theological dogma which teaches
these. See ELECTION, THE DOCTRINE OF.

PREDICABLES, the five classes of terms which can be predicated of a subject, viz.--GENUS, containing
species; SPECIES, contained in a genus; DIFFERENTIA, distinguishing one species from another;
PROPERTY, quality possessed by every member of a species; and ACCIDENT, attribute belonging
to certain individuals of a species and not others.

PREGEL, a navigable river in E. Prussia, 120 m. long and 730 ft. broad, which falls into the
Frische Haff below Königsberg.

PRESBURG (52), the ancient capital of Hungary, close to the Austrian frontier, on the Danube,
by rail 40 m. E. of Vienna; is a pleasant town, with a cathedral, a town-house, and a Franciscan
church, all of the 13th century, the old Parliament House, and a ruined royal castle; manufactures
beer, dynamite, and starch, and trades largely in live stock and corn.

PRESBYOPIA, diminution of sight due to age, occurring usually about forty-five, when near objects
are less distinctly seen than distant, an affliction due to the flattening of the lens.

PRESBYTERIANISM, that form of Church government which, discarding prelacy, regards all ministers
in conclave as on the same level in rank and function, and which is the prevailing form of
Church government in Scotland; inherited from Geneva, as also prevailing extensively in the
United States of America. The government is administered by a gradation of courts, called "Kirk-Sessions,"
of office-bearers in connection with a particular congregation; "Presbyteries," in connection
with a small district; "Synods," in connection with a larger; and finally a General Assembly
or a Synod of the whole Church, which, besides managing the affairs of the collective body,
forms a court of final appeal in disputed matters or cases.

PRESCOTT, WILLIAM HICKLING, American historian, born at Salem, Massachusetts; son of a lawyer;
graduated at Harvard in 1814, and applied himself to study law; by-and-by he travelled in Europe,
married, and turned to literature as a profession; growing blind, the result of an accident
at college, he fortunately inherited means, employed assistants, and with great courage in
1826 began to study Spanish history. "Ferdinand and Isabella" appearing in 1838, established
his reputation in both worlds; "The Conquest of Mexico" was published in 1843, and "The Conquest
of Peru" in 1847; he was elected corresponding member of the French Institute; his style is
vivid, direct, and never dull; though not philosophical, his histories are masterpieces of
narrative and incident; he died of apoplexy at Boston before completing the "History of Philip
II." (1796-1859).

PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, is popularly elected for four years, or rather by delegates
so elected to each State, and sometimes re-elected for other four; is commander-in-chief of
the army and navy; sees to the administration of the laws, signs bills before they pass into
law, makes treaties, grants reprieves and pardons, and receives an annual salary of 50,000 dollars.

PRESS-GANG, a party armed with powers to impress men into the naval service in times of emergency,
a practice which often gave rise to serious disturbances, and is not in any circumstances likely
to be had recourse to again. See IMPRESSMENT.

PRESSENSÉ, EDMOND DE, eminent French Protestant theologian, born at Luasanne, in Paris; studied
under Vinet and Neander at Berlin; became Protestant minister in Paris; was elected a deputy
in the National Assembly in 1871, and a senator in 1883; wrote a "Life of Christ," and on numerous
subjects of theological and ecclesiastical interest (1824-1891).

PRESTER, JOHN. See JOHN, PRESTER.

PRESTON (112), Lancashire manufacturing town on the Ribble, 31 m. N W. of Manchester; is a
well laid out brick town, with three parks, a magnificent town-hall, a market, public baths,
free library, museum, and picture-gallery; St. Walburge's Roman Catholic church has the highest
post-Reformation steeple in England, 306 ft. The deepening of the river and construction of
docks have added to the shipping trade. The chief industry is cotton, but there are also shipbuilding
yards, engineer shops, and foundries. One of Cromwell's victories was won here; it was the
birthplace of Richard Arkwright, and the scene of the beginning of the English total abstinence
movement in 1832.

PRETENDERS, THE, the names given to the son and the grandson of James II. (Prince Charlie)
as claiming a right to the throne of England, and called respectively the Elder and the Younger
Pretender; the elder, who made one or two attempts to secure his claim, surrendered it to his
son, who in 1745 was defeated at Culloden.

PRETORIA (whites, 10), capital of the Transvaal, stands on a mountain-enclosed plain 1000 m.
NE. of Cape Town, and nearly 300 m. W. of Lorenzo Marquez, Delagoa Bay, with both of which
and with Natal it is connected by rail. It is a thriving town, growing rapidly with flourishing
trade, the see of a bishop, and containing twenty English schools. Coal is found near, and
wheat, tobacco, cotton, and indigo grown. It is the seat of the government of the Transvaal.

PRÉVOST D'EXILES, ANTOINE FRANÇOIS, or ABBÉ PRÉVOST, a French romancer, born in Heslin, Artois;
was educated by the Jesuits, and became a Benedictine monk, but proving refractory, fled to
Holland and England; wrote several novels, but his fame rests on one entitled "Manon Lescaut,"
a work of genius, charming at once in matter and style; a "story," says Professor Saintsbury,
"chiefly remarkable for the perfect simplicity and absolute life-likeness of the character-drawing";
derives its name from the subject of it, a young girl named Manon (1697-1763).

PRÉVOST-PARADOL, LUCIEN ANATOLE, French littérateur and publicist, born in Paris; distinguished
himself as journalist and essayist; was an enemy of the Empire, but accepted a post under Ollivier
as envoy to the United States in 1870, and committed suicide at Washington almost immediately
after landing; it was on the eve of the Franco-German War, and he had been the subject of virulent
attacks from the republican press of the day (1829-1870).

PRIAM, the old king of Troy during the Trojan War; was the son of Laomedon, who with the help
of Apollo and Poseidon built the city; had a large family by his wife Hecuba, Hector, Paris,
and Cassandra, the most noted of them; was too old to take part in the war; is said to have
fallen by the hand of Pyrrhus on the capture of Troy by the Greeks.

PRIAPUS, an ancient deity, the personification of the generating or fructifying power, and
worshipped as the protector of flocks of sheep and goats, of bees, of the vine and other garden
products; a worship known as the Priapus worship prevailed extensively all over the East.

PRICE, RICHARD, English moralist, born in Glamorganshire; wrote on politics and economics as
well as ethics, in which last he followed CUDWORTH (q. v.), and insisted on the unimpeachable
quality of moral distinctions, and the unimpeachable authority of the moral sentiments (1723-1791).

PRICHARD, JAMES COWLES, founder of ethnology and a philologist, born in Hereford; bred to medicine,
and practised in Bristol; wrote "Researches into the Physical History of Mankind," "The Eastern
Origin of the Celtic Nations," "Analysis of Egyptian Mythology," and the "Natural History of
Man"; maintained the original unity of the race, and that the original pair were negroes; philology
was in his hands the handmaid of ethnology, and he made himself master of the primitive languages
(1786-1848).

PRIDEAUX, HUMPHREY, English prelate and scholar; remembered chiefly as the author of a learned
work entitled "The Connection of the History of the Old and New Testaments"; wrote a "Life
of Mahomet," popular in its day and for long after (1648-1724).

PRIDE'S PURGE, the name given to a violent exclusion, in 1649, at the hands of a body of troops
commanded by Colonel Pride of about a hundred members of the House of Commons disposed to deal
leniently with the king, after which some eighty, known as the Rump, were left to deal with
his Majesty and bring him to justice.

PRIESSNITZ, founder of the water-cure, in connection with which he had a large establishment
at Gräfenberg, in Austrian Silesia; was a mere empiric, having been bred to farming (1799-1851).

PRIEST, properly a man in touch with the religious life of the people, and for the most part
consecrated to mediate between them and the Deity; the prophet, on the other hand, being one
more in touch with the Deity, being at times so close to Him as to require a priest to mediate
between him and the laity.

PRIESTLEY, JOSEPH, a Socinian divine, born near Leeds; wrote in defence of Socinianism, and
in defence of Christianity; gave himself to physical research, particularly pneumatic chemistry;
is claimed as the discoverer of oxygen; sympathised with the French Revolution; was mobbed,
and had to flee to America, where he died, believing in immortality despite his materialistic
philosophy (1733-1804).

PRIM, JUAN, a Spanish general; distinguished as a statesman; rose to be Minister of War, but
aspiring to dictatorship, was shot by an assassin; he was the leader of the movement that overthrew
Isabella in 1868 and installed Amadeo in her stead (1814-1870).

PRIMROSE, the name of a family in Goldsmith's "Vicar of Wakefield."

PRIMROSE LEAGUE, a politico-Conservative organisation founded in 1883 in memory of Lord Beaconsfield,
and so called because the primrose was popularly reported to be his favourite flower. It includes
a large membership, nearly a million, comprising women as well as men; is divided into district
habitations; confers honours and badges in the style of Freemasonry, and has extensive political
influence under a grand-master.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND (109), an island province of Canada, in the S. of Gulf of St. Lawrence,
occupies a great bay formed by New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Cape Breton, and is somewhat
larger than Northumberland. The coast-line is exceedingly broken, the surface low and undulating,
and very fertile. The chief industry is agriculture, oats and potatoes are the best crops;
decayed shells found in beds on the shore are an excellent manure; sheep and horses are raised
with great success. The climate is healthy, milder and clearer than on the mainland, but with
a tedious winter. Coal exists, but is not wrought. The fisheries are the best on the Gulf,
but are not developed. Manufactures are inconsiderable. Discovered by the Cabots, it was settled
by the French in 1715, and ceded to Great Britain in 1763. Constituted a province in 1768,
the name was changed from St. John to Prince Edward in 1799. Since 1875 the local government
have bought out most of the great proprietors, and resold the land to occupying owners. Education
is free. There are normal schools and two colleges. Half the people are Roman Catholics. A
railway traverses the island, and there is daily steam communication with the mainland. The
capital is Charlottetown (13); Summerside, Georgetown, and Sourio are the other towns.

PRINCE OF PEACE, a title given by Charles IV. of Spain to his Prime Minister, DON MANUEL GODOY
(q. v.).

PRINCETON (3), a town of New Jersey, 50 m. SW. of New York; was the scene of a battle in the
War of Independence, and the meeting-place of the Continental Congress of 1783; now noted as
the seat of the College of New Jersey, founded at Newark 1746, and removed to Princeton ten
years later, with now 50 teachers and 600 students; Jonathan Edwards and Dr. James M'Cosh as
presidents, James Madison and others as alumni, have given it lustre. The Theological Seminary,
the oldest and largest Presbyterian one in the States, was founded in 1812, and a School of
Science in 1871. The college is rich in museums, observatories, laboratories, libraries, and funds.

PRINGLE, THOMAS, minor poet, born in Roxburghshire; edited the Monthly Magazine; emigrated
to South Africa; held a small government appointment; was bullied out of it; returned home,
and became Secretary to the Anti-Slavery Society (1789-1834).

PRINTED PAPER, Carlyle's satirical name for the literature of France prior to the Revolution.

PRINZENRAUB (the stealing of the princes), name given to an attempt, to satisfy a private grudge
of his, on the part of Kunz von Kaufingen to carry off, on the night of the 7th July 1455,
two Saxon princes from the castle of Altenburg, in which he was defeated by apprehension at
the hands of a collier named Schmidt, through whom he was handed over to justice and beheaded.
See CARLYLE'S ACCOUNT OF THIS IN HIS "MISCELLANIES."

PRIOR, MATTHEW, English poet and diplomatist, born near Wimborne, East Dorset; studied at Cambridge;
became Fellow of Trinity College; was ambassador to France; involved himself in an intrigue,
was imprisoned, and on his release lived in retirement; he is remembered as a poet; wrote in
1687 a parody of Dryden's "Hind and Panther," entitled "The Story of the Country Mouse and
the City Mouse," and afterwards, "Solomon on the Vanity of the World," "Alma; or, The Progress
of the Mind," after Butler, as well as tales, lyrics, and epigrams; Professor Saintsbury calls
him "the king of 'verse of society'" (1664-1721).

PRISCIAN, Latin grammarian of the 6th century, born in Cæsarea; was author of "Grammatical
Commentaries" in 18 books, a standard work during the Middle Ages, and in universal use at
that time.

PRISCILLIAN, a Spaniard of noble birth, who introduced a Gnostic and Manichæan heresy into
Spain, and founded a sect called after him, and was put to death by the Emperor Maximius in
385; his followers were an idly speculative sect, who practised a rigidly ascetic style of
life, and after being much calumniated did not survive him over 60 years.

PRISMATIC COLOURS, the seven colours a ray of pure white light is resolved into when refracted
through a prism, applied figuratively by Carlyle to the pure light refracted through the soul
of a man of genius.

PRISONER OF CHILLON, the name given to FRANÇOIS DE BONIVARD (q. v.), who was for six years
kept prisoner in the castle of Chillon, on the Lake of Geneva, and is the subject of a well-known
poem by Byron.

PRIVATEER, a private vessel licensed by Government under a letter of marque to seize and plunder
the ships of an enemy, otherwise an act of the kind is treated as piracy.

PRIVY COUNCIL, is theoretically a council associated with the sovereign to advise him in matters
of government. As at present constituted it includes the members of the royal family, the Cabinet,
the two archbishops and the bishop of London, the principal English and Scotch judges, some
of the chief ambassadors and governors of colonies, the Commander-in-Chief, the First Lord
of the Admiralty, &c. No members attend except those summoned, usually the Cabinet, the officers
of the Household, and the Primate. The functions of the Privy Council may be grouped as: (1)
executive, in which its duties are discharged by the Cabinet, which is technically a committee
of the Privy Council; (2) administrative--the Board of Trade, the Local Government Board, and
the Board of Agriculture originated in committees; the Education Department is still a committee,
and the Council retains such branches as the supervision of medical, pharmaceutical, and veterinary
practice, the granting of municipal charters, &c.; (3) judicial--the Judicial Committee is
a court of law, whose principal function is the hearing of appeals from ecclesiastical courts
and from Indian and colonial courts.

PRIVY SEAL, the seal of the sovereign appended to grants that do not require to pass the great
seal.

PROBUS, MARCUS AURELIUS, Roman emperor from 276 to 282, born in Pannonia; having distinguished
himself in the field as a soldier, was elected by the army and the citizens to succeed Tacitus;
defended the empire successfully against all encroachments, and afterwards devoted himself
to home administration, but requiring the service of the soldiers in public works, which they
considered degrading, was seized by a body of them compelled so to drudge, and put to death.

PROCLUS, a Neo-Platonic philosopher, born in Constantinople; appears to have held a Trinitarian
view of the universe, and to have regarded the All abstractly viewed as contained in the Divine
ever emerging from it and returning into it, a doctrine Implied in John i. 1, but far short
of the corresponding trinity in the ripe philosophy of Hegel (412-485).

PROCONSUL, name given to the governor of a Roman province who was absolute ruler of it, disposed
of the army, dispensed justice, controlled administration, and was represented by legates.

PROCOP, the name of two Hussite leaders of the Taborites, who after leading successful forays
on all hands from their head-quarters in Bohemia, fell in battle with their rivals the Calixtines
at Lippau in 1434.

PROCOPIUS, a Greek historian, born at Cæsarea, the secretary of Belisarius, and author of a
History of the Wars of Justinian, which is still the chief authority for the events of his
reign; d. 565.

PROCRUSTES, a brigand of ancient Attica, who when any one fell into his hands placed him on
a bed, stretching him out if he was too short for it and amputating him if he was too long
till he died; he was one day overpowered by Theseus, who tortured him to death as he had done
his own victims; his practice has given name to any attempt to enforce conformity by violent
measures.

PROCTER, BRYAN WALTER, English lyrist, known by his pseudonym as Barry Cornwall, born in London;
was bred to the bar, and was for 30 years a Commissioner of Lunacy, and is chiefly memorable
as the friend of all the eminent literary men of two generations, such as Wordsworth, Lamb,
and Scott on the one hand and Carlyle, Thackeray, and Tennyson on the other; he was no great
poet (1787-1874).

PROCTOR, RICHARD ANTONY, astronomer and lecturer on Astronomy; determined the rotation of the
planet Mars, and propounded the theory of the solar corona (1837-1888).

PROCURATOR-FISCAL, is a Scottish law officer appointed by the sheriff, and irremovable on efficient
and good behaviour, whose duties are to initiate the prosecution of crimes and inquire into
deaths under suspicious circumstances.

PROGNE, the sister of Philomela and wife of Tereus, changed into a swallow by the gods. See TEREUS.

PROGRESS OF THE SPECIES MAGAZINES, Carlyle's name for the literature of the day which does
nothing to help the progress in question, but keeps idly boasting of the fact, taking all the
credit to itself, like Æsop's fly on the axle of the careering chariot soliloquising, "What
a dust I raise!"

PROHIBITIONIST, one who would prohibit the sale of all intoxicating liquors.

PROLETARIAT, the name given to the lowest and poorest class in the State, and which still retains
the original Roman meaning, as denoting, from proles, offspring, one who enriches the State
not by his prosperity, but by his progeny.

PROMETHEUS (i. e. Forethought), a Titan, the son of lapetus and Klymene, and the brother of
EPIMETHEUS (q. v.), who, when the gods, just installed on Olympus, met with men at Mekone to
arrange with them as to their dues in sacrifice, came boldly forth as the representative and
protector of the human race and slew a bullock in sacrifice, putting the flesh of it in one
pile and the entrails with the bones in another, veiled temptingly with fat, and invited Zeus
to make his choice, whereupon, knowing well what he was about, Zeus chose the latter, but in
revenge took away with him the fire which had been bestowed by the gods upon mortals. It was
a strife of wit versus wit, and Prometheus, as the defender of the rights of man, was not to
be outwitted even by the gods, so he reached up a hollow fennel stalk to the sun and brought
the fire back again, whereupon the strife was transformed into one of force versus force, and
Zeus caught the audacious Titan and chained him to a rock on Mount Caucasus, where an eagle
gnawed all day at his liver which grew again by night, though, in inflicting this punishment,
Zeus was soon visited with a relenting heart, for it was by express commission from him that
Hercules, as a son of his, scaled the rock and slew the eagle. The myth is one of the deepest
significance, reflecting an old belief, and one which has on it the seal of Christ, as sanctioned
of Heaven, that the world was made for man and not man for the world, only there is included
within it an expression of the jealousy with which Heaven watches the use mankind make of the
gifts that, out of her own special store, she bestows upon them. Prometheus is properly the
incarnation of the divine fire latent from the beginning in the soul of man.

PROPAGANDA, a congregation, as it is called, at Rome, originated by Gregory XIII., and organised
in 1622 by Gregory XV., the object of which is to propagate the faith of the Church among heathen
nations and in countries where there is no established hierarchy, connected with which there
is a college at Rome called the Congregatio de Propaganda Fide, where pupils are instructed
for different fields of missionary enterprise.

PROPERTIUS, SEXTUS, a Latin elegaic poet, born in Umbria; went to Rome and became a protégé
of Mæcenas; devoted himself to the cultivation of the poetic art; came under the spell of a
gifted lady, to whom, under the name of Cynthia, he dedicated the first products of his muse,
and whom he has immortalised in his poems; in his elegies he follows Greek models; his poetry,
and the poetic quality it displays, have been much admired by Goethe (51-14 B.C.).

PROPHECY, properly not a forecasting of particular events and the succession of them, but so
far as it refers to the future at all is an insight into the course of things in the time to
come from insight into the course of them in days gone by or now, and that is believed to be
the character of Hebrew prophecy, founded on faith in the immutability of the divine order
of things.

PROPHETS. See PRIESTS, HEBREW PROPHECY.

PROSELYTES, converts from heathenism to Judaism, of which there were two classes: Proselytes
of the Temple, those who accepted the ceremonial law and were admitted into the inner court
of The temple; and Proselytes of the Gate, who accepted only the moral law, and were admitted
only into the outer court. They were a numerous class after the Dispersion, and were reckoned
at hundreds of thousands.

PROSERPINA, the daughter of Zeus and Demeter, who was carried off while gathering flowers by
PLUTO (q. v.), became Queen of Hades, and is represented as sitting on an ebony throne beside
him wearing a crown. According to later tradition Pluto had to allow her to revisit the upper
world for two-thirds of the year to compromise matters with her mother, her arrival being coincident
with the beginning of spring and her return to Hades coincident with the beginning of winter.
She became by Pluto the mother of the Furies.

PROSPERO, one of the chief characters in Shakespeare's "Tempest," an exiled king of Milan,
who, during his exile, practises magic, and breaks his wand when he has accomplished his purpose.

PROTAGORAS, one of the earliest of the Greek Sophists, born at Abdera, and who flourished in
440 B.C., and taught at Athens, from which he was banished as a blasphemer, as having called
in question the existence of the gods; he taught that man was the measure of all things, of
those that exist, that they are; and of those things that do not exist, that they are not;
and that there is nothing absolute, that all is an affair of subjective conception.

PROTECTION, name given to the encouragement of certain home products of a country by imposing
duties on foreign products of the class, opposed to free-trade.

PROTESTANTISM, the name given to a movement headed by Luther in the 16th century, in protestation
of the supremacy in spiritual things claimed by the Church of Rome, and made on the ground
of the authority of conscience enlightened by the Word of God, conceived of as the ultimate
revelation of God to man.

PROTESTANTS, a name given to the adherents of Luther, who, at the second Diet of Spires in
1529, protested against the revocation of certain privileges granted at the first Diet in 1526.

PROTEUS, in the Greek mythology a divinity of the sea endowed with the gift of prophecy, but
from whom it was difficult to extort the secrets of fate, as he immediately changed his shape
when any one attempted to force him, for it was only in his proper form he could enunciate
these secrets.

PROTOGENES, a Greek painter of the time of Alexander the Great, born in Caria; lived chiefly
at Rhodes; was discovered by Apelles, who brought him into note; his masterpiece is a picture
of Ialysus, the tutelary hero of Rhodes, on which he spent seven years, and which he painted
four times over.

PROTOPLASM, a name given to presumed living matter forming the physical bases of all forms
of animal and vegetable life; the term is now superseded by the term bioplasm. See DR. STIRLING,
"AS REGARDS PROTOPLASM."

PROUDHON, PIERRE JOSEPH, French Socialist, born at Besançon, the son of a cooper; worked in
a printing establishment, spent his spare hours in study, specially of the social problem,
and in 1840 published a work entitled "What is Property?" and in which he boldly enunciated
the startling proposition, "Property is theft"; for the publication of this thesis he was at
first unmolested, and only with its application was he called to account, and for which at
last, in 1849, he was committed to prison, where, however, he kept himself busy with his pen,
and whence he from time to time emitted socialistic publications till his release in 1852,
after which he was in 1858 compelled to flee the country, to return again under an act of amnesty
in 1860 and die; he was not only the assailant of property, but of government itself, and preached
anarchy as the goal of all social progress and not the starting-point, as so many unfortunately
fancy; but by anarchy, it would seem, he meant the right of government spiritually free, and,
in the Christian sense of that expression, to exemption from all external control (see I Tim.
i. 9) (1809-1865). (1789-1852).

PROUT, FATHER. See MAHONY, FRANCIS.

PROVENÇAL LANGUAGE, one of the Romance dialects of France, spoken in the South of France, and
different from that spoken in the N. as in closer connection with the original Latin than that
of the N., which was modified by Teutonic influence.

PROVENCE, a maritime province in the South of France, originally called Provincia by the Romans,
and which included the departments of Bouches-du-Rhône, Basses-Alpes, Var, and part of Vaucluse.

PROVERBS, BOOK OF, a book of the Hebrew Scriptures, full of the teachings of wisdom bearing
on the conduct of life, and though ascribed to Solomon, obviously not all of his composition,
or even collection, and probably ascribed to him because of his fondness for wisdom in that
form, and from his having procured the first collection. The principles inculcated are purely
ethical, resting, however, on a religious basis, and concern the individual not as a member
of any particular community, but as a member of the human race; the lessons of life and death
are the same as in the covenant with Moses, and the condition in both cases is the observance
or non-observance of God's commandments. There is no change in the principle, but in the expansion
of it, and that amounts to the foundation of a kingdom of God which shall include all nations.
In them the bonds of Jewish exclusiveness are burst, and a catholic religion virtually established.

PROVIDENCE (175), a seaport and semi-capital of Rhode Island, U.S., on a river of the name,
44 m. SW. of Boston; it is a centre of a large manufacturing district, and has a large trade
in woollens, jewellery, and hardware; has a number of public buildings, and institutions, churches,
schools, libraries, and hospitals, as well as beautiful villas and gardens.

PRUDENTIUS, MARCUS AURELIUS CLEMENS. Christian poet of the 4th century, born in Spain; after
spending the greater part of his life in secular affairs, gave himself up to religious meditation,
and wrote hymns, lyrics, and polemics in verse.

PRUSSIA (24,690), the leading State of the German Empire, occupies about two-thirds of the
imperial territory, and contributes three-fifths of the population; it stretches from Holland
and Belgium in the W. to Russia in the E., has Jutland and the sea on the N., and Lorraine,
Bavaria, Hesse-Darmstadt, Saxony, and Austria on the S.; the SW. portion is hilly and the soil
often poor, but containing valuable mineral deposits; the N. and E. belongs to the great European
plain, devoted to agriculture and grazing; Hesse-Cassel is extremely fertile, and Nassau produces
excellent wine; in the E. and in Hanover are extensive forests; Silesia, Westphalia, and Rhenish
Prussia contain the chief coal-fields, and are consequently the chief industrial provinces;
half the zinc of the world is mined in Prussia; lead, iron, copper, antimony, &c., are also
wrought; the Hartz Mountains are noted for their mines; Salt, amber, and precious stones are
found on the Baltic shores; textiles, metal wares, and beer are the main industries; Berlin
and Elberfeld are the two chief manufacturing centres on the Continent; the great navigable
rivers, Niemen, Vistula, Oder, Elbe, Weser, Rhine, and their tributaries and canals, excellent
railways, and her central European position all favour Prussia's commerce, while her coast-line,
harbours, and growing mercantile fleet put her in communication with the markets of the world;
seven-eighths of the people are Germans; Slavonic races are represented by Poles, Wends, Lithuanians,
and Czechs, while the Danes appear in Schleswig-Holstein; the prevailing religion is Protestant;
education is compulsory and good; there are ten universities, and many great libraries and
educational institutions; the Prussian is the largest contingent in the German army; the king
of Prussia is emperor of Germany. The basis of the Prussian people was laid by German colonists
placed amid the pagan Slavs whom they had conquered by the Teutonic knights of the 13th century;
in 1511 their descendants chose a Hohenzollern prince; a century later the Hohenzollerns of
Brandenburg succeeded; despite the Thirty Years' War Prussia became a European State, and was
recognised as a kingdom in 1703; Frederick the Great (1740-1786) enlarged its bounds and developed
its resources; the successive partitions of Poland added to her territory; humiliated by the
peace of Tilsit 1807, and ruined by the French occupation, she recovered after Waterloo; William
I. and Bismarck still further increased her territory and prestige; by the Austrian War of
1866 and the French War of 1870-71 her position as premier State in the German Confederation
was assured.

PRYNNE, WILLIAM, a Puritan censor morum, born near Bath, bred to the bar; wrote a book or pamphlet
called "Histrio-Mastix, or the Player's Scourge," against the stage, for which and a reflection
in it against the virtue of the queen he was brought before the Star Chamber in 1634, sentenced
to the pillory, and had his ears cropped off, and for an offence against Laud, whether by order
of the Star Chamber or not is uncertain, was in 1637 sentenced anew, and "lost his ears a second
and final time, having had them 'sewed on again' before; this time a heroine on the scaffold,"
adds Carlyle, "received them on her lap and kissed him"; after this the zeal of Prynne appears
to have waxed cold, for he was as a recalcitrant imprisoned by Cromwell, after whose death
he espoused the Royalist cause, and was appointed Keeper of the Records of the Tower (1600-1669).

PRYTANE`UM, name given to the public hall in Greek cities, and the head-quarters of the Executive.

PSALMANAZAR, GEORGE, an impostor, born in the South of France, who, being brought to London,
imposed on Compton, bishop of London, by fabricating a history of Formosa, of which he professed
to be a native, but was convicted of the error of his ways by Law's "Serious Call," and led
afterwards what seemed a sober life, and one to commend the regard of Johnson (1679-1763).

PSALMS, THE BOOK OF, the name given in the Septuagint to a collection of sacred songs in the
Hebrew Bible, which are all of a lyrical character, and appear to have been at first collected
for liturgical purposes. Their range is co-extensive with nearly all divine truth, and there
are tones in them in accord with the experience and feelings of devout men in all ages. Nay,
"the Psalter alone," says Ruskin, "which practically was the service-book of the Church for
many ages, contains, merely in the first half of it, the sum of personal and social wisdom,...
while the 48th, 72nd, and 75th have in them the law and the prophecy of all righteous government,
and every real triumph of natural science is anticipated in the 104th." The collection bears
the name of David, but it is clear the great body of them are of later date as well as of divers
authorship, although it is often difficult to determine by whom some of them were written,
and when. The determination of this, however, is of the less consequence, as the question is
more a speculative one than a spiritual one, and whatever may be the result of inquiry in this
matter now going on, the spiritual value of the Psalms, which is their real value, is nowise
affected thereby. It matters nothing who wrote them or when they were written; they are there,
are conceived from situations such as are obvious enough and common to the lot of all good
men, and they bear on spiritual interests, which are our primary ones, and these, still, as
in every other time, the alone really pressing ones. They express the real experiences of living
men, who lay under an inner necessity to utter such a song, relieving themselves by the effort
and ministering a means of relief to others in a like situation of soul.

PSYCHE (i. e. the soul), in the later Greek mythology the youngest of three daughters of a
king, and of such beauty as to eclipse the attractions and awake the jealousy of Venus, the
goddess of beauty, who in consequence sent Cupid, her son, to inspire her with love for a hideous
monster, and so compass her ruin. Cupid, fascinated with her himself, spirited her away to
a palace furnished with every delight, but instead of delivering her over to the monster, visited
her himself at night as her husband, and left her before daybreak in the morning, because she
must on no account know who he was. Here her sisters came to see her, and in their jealousy
persuaded her to assure herself that it was not a monster that she slept with, so that she
lit a lamp the next night to discover, when a drop of oil from it fell on his shoulder as he
lay asleep beside her, upon which he at a bound started up and vanished out of sight. She thereupon
gave way to a long wail of lamentation and set off a-wandering over the wide world in search
of her lost love, till she came to the palace of Venus, her arch-enemy, who seized on her person
and made her her slave, subjecting her to a series of services, all of which she accomplished
to the letter, so that Venus was obliged to relent and consent that, in the presence of all
the gods of Olympus, Cupid and she should be united in immortal wedlock. It is the story of
the trials of the soul to achieve immortality. See "Stories from the Greek Mythology," by the
Editor.

PSYCHICAL RESEARCH, SOCIETY FOR, a society founded in 1882 to inquire into the phenomena of
spiritualism and kindred subjects of a recondite kind, the subject of Telepathy having engaged
recently a good deal of attention.

PTOLEMAIC SYSTEM, the highly complex system of astronomy ascribed to Claudius Ptolemy, which
assumed that the earth was the centre of a sphere which carried the heavenly bodies along in
its daily revolution, accounted for the revolutions of the sun and moon by supposing they moved
in eccentric circles round the earth, and regarded the planets as moving in epicycles round
a point which itself revolved in an eccentric circle round the earth like the sun and moon.

PTOLEMAÏS, the name of certain cities of antiquity, the most celebrated being Acre, in SYRIA
(q. v.).

PTOLEMY, the name of the Macedonian kings of Egypt, of which there were 14 in succession, of
whom Ptolemy I., SOTER, was a favourite general of Alexander the Great, and who ruled Egypt
from 328 to 285 B.C.; Ptolemy II., PHILADELPHUS, who ruled from 285 to 247, a patron of letters
and an able administrator; Ptolemy III., EUERGETES, who ruled from 247 to 222; Ptolemy IV.,
PHILOPATOR, who ruled from 222 to 205; Ptolemy V., EPIPHANES, who ruled from 205 to 181; Ptolemy
VI., PHILOMETOR, who ruled from 181 to 146; Ptolemy VII., EUERGETES II., who ruled from 146
to 117; Ptolemy VIII., SOTER, who ruled from 117 to 107, was driven from Alexandria, returning
to it in 88, and reigning till 81; Ptolemy X., ALEXANDER I., who ruled from 107 to 88; Ptolemy
X. ALEXANDER II., who ruled from 81 to 80; Ptolemy XI., AULETES, who ruled from 80 to 51; Ptolemy
XII., who ruled from 51 to 47; Ptolemy XIII., the INFANT KING, who ruled from 47 to 43; Ptolemy
XIV., CESARION, the son of Julius Cæsar and Cleopatra, who ruled from 43 to 30.

PTOLEMY (CLAUDIUS PTOLEMÆUS), ancient astronomer and geographer, born in Egypt; lived in Alexandria
in the 2nd century; was the author of the system of astronomy called after him; left behind
him two writings bearing one on astronomy and one on geography, along with other works of inferior
importance.

PUBLICANS or PUBLICANI, a name given by the Romans to persons who farmed the public revenues;
specially a class of the Jewish people, often mentioned in the New Testament, and specially
odious to the rest of the community as the farmers of the taxes imposed upon them, mostly at
the instance of their foreign oppressors the Romans, and in the collection of which they had
recourse to the most unjust exactions. They were in their regard not merely the tools of a
foreign oppression, but traitors to their country and apostates from the faith of their fathers,
and were to be classed, as they were, with heathens, sinners, and harlots.

PUCCINOTTI, FRANCESCO, eminent Italian pathologist, born in Urbino, and author of the "Storia
delle Medicina" (History of Medicine), the fruit of the labour of twenty years (1794-1872).

PUCELLE LA (i. e. the Maid), Joan of Arc, the maid par excellence.

PUCK, a tricky, mischievous fairy, identified with Robin Goodfellow, and sometimes confounded
with a house spirit, propitiated by kind words and the liberty of the cream-bowl.

PUEBLA (79), on an elevated plateau 7000 ft. above the sea, 68 m. due SE. of Mexico, is the
third city of the republic, and a beautiful town, with Doric cathedral, theological, medical,
and other schools, a museum, and two libraries; cotton goods, iron, paper, and glass are manufactured;
it is a commercial city, and carries on a brisk trade. Is the name also of a Colorado town
(24) on the Arkansas River; it is in a rich mineral district, and is engaged in the manufacture
of steel and iron wares.

PUERTO DE SANTA MARIA (22), a seaport in Spain, on the Bay of Cadiz, 9 m. SW. of Xeres, and
the chief place of export of Xeres port or sherry wines.

PUERTO PLATA (15), the chief port of the Dominican Republic, on the N. of Hayti; exports tobacco,
sugar, coffee, &c.

PUERTO PRINCIPE (46), a town on the E. of Cuba; manufactures cigars, and exports sugar, hides,
and molasses; originally on the shore, but removed inland.

PUFFENDORF, SAMUEL, Baron von, eminent German jurist, born at Chemnitz, Saxony; wrote several
works on jurisprudence, one of which, under the ban of Austria, was burned there by the hangman,
but his "De Jure Naturæ et Gentium" is the one on which his fame rests; was successively in
the service of Charles XI. of Sweden and the Elector of Brandenburg (1632-1694).

PUGIN, AUGUSTUS WELBY, architect, born in London, of French parentage; made a special study
of Gothic architecture; assisted in decorating the new Houses of Parliament, but becoming a
Roman Catholic he gave himself to designing a good number of Roman Catholic churches, including
cathedrals; he wrote several works on architecture, and was the chief promoter of the "Mediæval
Court" in the Crystal Palace; he was afflicted in the prime of life with insanity, and died
at Ramsgate (1812-1852).

PULCI, LUINI, Italian poet, born at Florence; the personal friend of Lorenzo de' Medici, and
the author of a burlesque poem of which Roland is the hero, entitled in Tuscan "Il Morgante
Maggiore" ("Morgante the Great"); he wrote also several humorous sonnets; two brothers of his
had similar gifts (1432-1484).

PULQUE, a favourite beverage of the Mexicans and in Central America, from the fermented juice
of the agave.

PULTENEY, WILLIAM, Earl of Bath, English statesman; in 1705 entered Parliament zealous in the
Whig interest; was for years the friend and colleague of Walpole, but afterwards, from a slight,
became his bitterest enemy and most formidable opponent; he contributed a good deal to his
fall, but, unable to take his place, contented himself with a peerage, his popularity being
gone (1682-1764).

PULTOWA (43), a town in Southern Russia, 90 m. by rail SW. of Kharkoff, on an affluent of the
Dnieper; manufactures leather and tobacco; here Peter the Great won his victory over Charles
XII. of Sweden in 1709.

PULTUSK, a Polish town, 33 m. N. of Warsaw; here Charles XII. gained a victory over the Saxons
in 1703, and the French over the Russians in 1806.

PULU, a kind of silk obtained from the fibres of a fern-tree of Hawaii.

PUNCH, the name of the chief character in a well-known puppet show of Italian origin, and appropriated
as the title of the leading English comic journal, which is accompanied with illustrations
conceived in a humorous vein and conducted in satire, from a liberal Englishman's standpoint,
of the follies and weaknesses of the leaders of public opinion and fashion in modern social
life. It was started in 1841 under the editorship of Henry Mayhew and Mark Lemon; and the wittiest
literary men of the time as well as the cleverest artists have contributed to its pages, enough
to mention of the former Thackeray, Douglas Jerrold, and Tom Hood, and of the latter Doyle,
Leech, Tenniel, Du Maurier, and Lindley Sambourne.

PUNDIT, a Brahmin learned in Sanskrit and in the language, literature, and laws of the Hindus.

PUNIC FAITH, a plighted promise that one can put no trust in, such as the Romans alleged they
systematically had experience of at the hands of the Poeni or Carthaginians.

PUNIC WARS, the name given to the wars between Rome and Carthage for the empire of the world,
of date, the first from 264 to 241, the second from 218 to 201, and the third from 149 to 146
B.C., due all to transgressions on the one side or the other of boundaries fixed by treaty,
which it was impossible for either in their passion of empire to respect. It was a struggle
which, though it ended in the overthrow of Carthage, proved at one time the most critical in
the history of Rome.

PUNJAB (25,130), "five rivers," a province in the extreme NW. of India, watered by the Indus
and its four tributaries, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravee, and Sutlej; its frontiers touch Afghanistan
and Cashmir. Mountain ranges traverse the N., W., and S; little rain falls; the plains are
dry and hot in summer. There is little timber, cow-dung is common fuel; the soil is barren,
but under irrigation there are fertile stretches; wheat, indigo, sugar, cotton, tobacco, opium,
and tea are largely grown; cotton, silk, lace, iron, and leather are manufactured; indigo,
grain, cotton, and manufactured products are exported in exchange for raw material, dyes, horses,
and timber. The population is mixed, Sikhs, Jats, and Rajputs predominate; more than a half
are Mohammedan, and more than a third Hindu. Lahore is the capital, but Delhi and Amritsar
are larger towns. Several railways run through the province. The natives remained loyal throughout
the Mutiny of 1857-58, Sikhs and Pathans joining the British troops before Delhi.

PURÁNAS, a body of religious works which rank second to the Vedas, and form the basis of the
popular belief of the Hindus. There are 18 principal Puránas and 18 secondary Puránas, of various
dates, but believed to be of remote antiquity, though modern critical research proves that
in their present form they are not of very ancient origin.

PURBECK, ISLE OF, the peninsula in South Dorsetshire lying between the river Frome, Poole Harbour,
and the English Channel; formerly a royal deer-forest; has a precipitous coast, and inland
consists of chalk downs; nearly 100 quarries are wrought of "Purbeck marble."

PURCELL, HENRY, eminent English musician, born at Westminster; was successively organist at
Westminster Abbey and to the Chapel Royal; excelled in all forms of musical composition; was
the author of anthems, cantatas, glees, &c., which attained great popularity; he set the songs
of Shakespeare's "Tempest" to music (1658-1695).

PURCHAS, SAMUEL, collector of works of travel and continuator of the work of Hakluyt, in two
curious works entitled "Purchas his Pilgrimage," and "Hakluyt's his Posthumous, or Purchas
his Pilgrimmes," and was rector of St. Martin's, Ludgate, and chaplain to Archbishop Abbot
(1577-1626).

PURGATORIO, region in Dante's "Commedia" intermediate between the Inferno, region of lost souls,
and the Paradiso, region of saved souls, and full of all manner of obstructions which the penitent,
who would pass from the one to the other, must struggle with in soul-wrestle till he overcome,
the most Christian section, thinks Carlyle, of Dante's poem.

PURGATORY, in the creed of the Church of Rome a place in which the souls of the dead, saved
from hell by the death of Christ, are chastened and purified from venial sins, a result which
is, in great part, ascribed to the prayers of the faithful and the sacrifice of the Mass. The
creed of the Church in this matter was first formulated by Gregory the Great, and was based
by him, as it has been vindicated since, on passages of Scripture as well as the writings of
the Fathers. The conception of it, as wrought out by Dante, Carlyle considers "a noble embodiment
of a true noble thought." See his "Heroes."

PURIM, THE FEAST OF, or LOTS, an annual festival of the Jews in commemoration of the preservation,
as recorded in "Esther," of their race from the threatened wholesale massacre of it in Persia
at the instance of Haman, and which was so called because it was by casting "lots" that the
day was fixed for the execution of the purpose. It lasts two days, being observed on the 14th
and 15th of the month Adar.

PURITAN CITY, name given to Boston, U.S., from its founders and inhabitants who were originally
of Puritan stock.

PURITANS, a name given to a body of clergymen of the Church of England who refused to assent
to the Act of Uniformity passed in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, because it required them to
conform to Popish doctrine and ritual; and afterwards applied to the whole body of Nonconformists
in England in the 16th and 17th centuries, who insisted on rigid adherence to the simplicity
prescribed in these matters by the sacred Scriptures. In the days of Cromwell they were, "with
musket on shoulder," the uncompromising foes of all forms, particularly in the worship of God,
that affected to be alive after the soul had gone out of them.

PURSUIVANT, one of the junior officers in the Heralds' College, four in England, named respectively
Rouge Croix, Blue Mantle, Rouge Dragon, and Portcullis; and three in Scotland, named respectively
Bute, Carrick, and Unicorn.

PUSEY, EDWARD BOUVERIE, English theologian, born in Berkshire, of Flemish descent; studied
at Christ's Church, Oxford, and became a Fellow of Oriel, where he was brought into relationship
with Newman, Keble, and Whately; spent some time in Germany studying Rationalism, and, after
his return, was in 1828 appointed Regius Professor of Hebrew at Oxford; in 1833 he joined the
Tractarian Movement, to which he contributed by his learning, and which, from his standing
in the University, as well as from the part he played in it, was at length called by his name;
he was not so conspicuous as other members of the movement, but he gained some notoriety by
a sermon he preached on the Eucharist, which led to his suspension for three years, and notwithstanding
his life of seclusion, he took an active part in all questions affecting the interests he held
to be at stake; he was the author of several learned works, among them the "Minor Prophets,
a Commentary," and "Daniel the Prophet" (1800-1882).

PUSHKIN, a distinguished Russian poet, considered the greatest, born at Moscow; his chief works
are "Ruslan and Liudmila" (a heroic poem), "Eugene Onegin" (a romance), and "Boris Godunov"
(a drama); was mortally wounded in a duel (1799-1837).

PUSHTOO or PUSHTO, the language of the Afghans, said to be derived from the Zend, with admixtures
from the neighbouring tribes.

PUTEAUX (17), a suburb of Paris, on the left bank of the Seine, a favourite residence of the
Parisians, who have villas here.

PUTNEY (18), a London suburb on the Surrey side, 6 m. from Waterloo, has a bridge across the
Thames 300 yards long; the parish church tower dates from the 15th century. The river here
affords favourite rowing water, the starting-place of the inter-universities boat-race; Putney
Heath was a favourite duelling resort; Gibbon was a native; Pitt and Leigh Hunt died here.

PUY, LE (20), a picturesque town, 70 m. SW. of Lyons, a bishop's seat, with a 10th-century
cathedral; is the centre of a great lace manufacture.

PUY-DU-DÔME (564), a department in Central France, in the upper valley of the Allier, on the
slopes of the Auvergne Mountains. The soil is poor, but agriculture and cattle-breeding are
the chief industries; in the mountains coal and lead are found, and there are many mineral
springs; there are paper and oil manufactures. The principal town is Clermont-Ferrand (45),
where Peter the Hermit preached the first crusade.

PYGMALION, king of Cyprus, is said to have fallen in love with an ivory statue of a maiden
he had himself made, and to have prayed Aphrodité to breathe life into it. The request being
granted, he married the maiden and became by her the father of Paphus.

PYGMIES, a fabulous people, their height 13½ inches, mentioned by Homer as dwelling on the
shores of the ocean and attacked by cranes in spring-time, the theme of numerous stories.

PYM, JOHN, Puritan statesman, born in Somersetshire, educated at Oxford; bred to law, entered
Parliament in 1621, opposed the arbitrary measures of the king, took a prominent part in the
impeachment of Buckingham; at the opening of the Long Parliament procured the impeachment of
the Earl of Strafford, and conducted the proceedings against him; he was one of the five members
illegally arrested by Charles I., and was brought back again in triumph to Westminster; was
appointed Lieutenant of the Ordnance, and a month after died (1584-1643).

PYRAMIDS, ancient structures of stone or sometimes brick, resting generally on square bases
and tapering upwards with triangular sides, found in different parts of the world, but chiefly
in Egypt, where they exist to the number of 70 or 80, and of which the most celebrated are
those of Ghizeh, 10 m. W. of Cairo, three in number, viz., the Great Pyramid of Cheop, 449
ft. high, and the sides at base 746 ft. long, that named Chefren, nearly the same size, and
that of Mykerinos, not half the height of the other two, but excelling them in beauty of execution.
The original object of these structures has been matter of debate, but there seems to be now
no doubt that they are sepulchral monuments of kings of Egypt from the first to the twelfth
dynasty of them.

PYRAMUS AND THISBE, two lovers who lived in adjoining houses in Babylon, and who used to converse
with each other through a hole in the wall, because their parents would not allow them open
intimacy, but who arranged to meet one evening at the tomb of Nisus. The maiden appearing at
the spot and being confronted by a lioness who had just killed an ox, took to flight and left
her garment behind her, which the lioness had soiled with blood. Pyramus arriving after this
saw only the bloody garment on the spot and immediately killed himself, concluding she had
been murdered, while she on return finding him lying in his blood, threw herself upon his dead
body and was found a corpse at his side in the morning.

PYRENE, a crystalline substance obtained from coal tar, fats, &c.

PYRENEES, a broad chain of lofty mountains running from the Bay of Biscay, 276 m. eastwards,
to the Mediterranean, form the boundary between France and Spain. They are highest in the centre,
Mount Maladetta reaching 11,168 ft. The snow-line is about 8000 or 9000 ft., and there are
glaciers on the French side. Valleys run up either side, ending in precipitous "pot-holes,"
with great regularity. The passes are very dangerous from wind and snow storms. The streams
to the N. feed the Adour and Garonne; those to the S., the Ebro and Douro. Vegetation in the
W. is European, in the E. sub-tropical. Minerals are few, though both iron and coal are worked.
The basis of the system is granite with limestone strata superimposed.

PYROXYLINE, an explosive substance obtained by steeping vegetable fibre in nitro-sulphuric
acid and drying after it is washed.

PYRRHA, in Greek mythology the wife of DEUCALION (q. v.).

PYRRHIC DANCE, the chief war-dance of the Greeks, of quick, light movement to the music of
flutes; was of Cretan or Spartan origin. It was subsequently danced for display by the Athenian
youths and by women to entertain company, and in the Roman empire was a favourite item in the
public games.

PYRRHO, the father of the Greek sceptics, born in Elis, a contemporary of Aristotle; his doctrine
was, that as we cannot know things as they are, only as they seem to be, we must be content
to suspend our judgment on such matters and maintain a perfect imperturbability of soul if
we would live to any good.

PYRRHONISM, philosophic scepticism. See PYRRHO.

PYRRHUS, king of Epirus, and kinsman of Alexander the Great; essayed to emulate the Macedonian
by conquering the western World, and in 280 B.C. invaded Italy with a huge army, directed to
assist the Italian Greeks against Rome; in the decisive battles of that year and the next,
he won "Pyrrhic victories" over the Romans, losing so many men that he could not pursue his
advantage; 278 to 276 he spent helping the Greek colonies in Sicily against Carthage; his success
was not uniform, and a Carthaginian fleet inflicted a serious defeat on his fleet returning
to Italy; in 274 he was thoroughly vanquished by the Romans, and retired to Epirus; subsequent
wars against Sparta and Argos were marked by disaster; in the latter he was killed by a tile
thrown by a woman (318-272 B.C.).

PYRRHUS, called also NEOPTOLEMUS, son of Achilles; was one of the heroes concealed in the wooden
horse by means of which Troy was entered, slew Priam by the altar of Zeus, and sacrificed Polyxena
to the manes of his father. Andromache, the widow of Hector, fell to him on the division of
the captives after the fall of Troy, and became his wife.

PYTHAGORAS, a celebrated Greek philosopher and founder of a school named after him Pythagoreans,
born at Samos, and who seems to have flourished between 540 and 500 B.C.; after travels in
many lands settled at Crotona in Magna Græcia, where he founded a fraternity, the members of
which bound themselves in closest ties of friendship to purity of life and to active co-operation
in disseminating and encouraging a kindred spirit in the community around them, the final aim
of it being the establishment of a model social organisation. He left no writings behind him,
and we know of his philosophy chiefly from the philosophy of his disciples.

PYTHAGOREANS, the school of philosophy founded by Pythagoras, "the fundamental thought of which,"
according to SCHWEGLER, "was that of proportion and harmony, and this idea is to them as well
the principle of practical life, as the supreme law of the universe." It was a kind of "arithmetical
mysticism, and the leading thought was that law, order, and agreement obtain in the affairs
of Nature, and that these relations are capable of being expressed in number and in measure."
The whole tendency of the Pythagoreans, in a practical aspect, was ascetic, and aimed only
at a rigid castigation of the moral principle in order thereby to ensure the emancipation of
the soul from its mortal prison-house and its transmigration into a nobler form. It is with
the doctrine of the transmigration of souls that the Pythagorean philosophy is specially associated.

PYTHEAS, a celebrated Greek navigator of Massilia, in Gaul, probably lived in the time of Alexander
the Great; in his first voyage visited Britain and Thule, and in his second coasted along the
western shore of Europe from Cadiz to the Elbe.

PYTHIAN GAMES, celebrated from very early times till the 4th century A.D. every four years,
near Delphi, in honour of Apollo, who was said to have instituted them to commemorate his victory
over the Python; originally were contests in singing only, but after the middle of the 6th
century B.C. they included instrumental music, contests in poetry and art, athletic exercises,
and horse-racing.

PYTHON, in the Greek mythology a serpent or dragon produced from the mud left on the earth
after the deluge of Deucalion, a brood of sheer chaos and the dark, who lived in a cave of
Parnassus, and was slain by Apollo, who founded the Pythian Games in commemoration of his victory,
and was in consequence called Pythius.

PYTHONESS, the priestess of APOLLO AT DELPHI (q. v.), so called from the PYTHON (q. v.), the
dragon slain by the god.

PYX, the name of a cup-shaped, gold-lined vessel, with lid, used in the Roman Catholic churches
for containing the eucharistic elements after their consecration either for adoration in the
churches or for conveying to sick-rooms. Pyx means "box." Hence TRIAL OF THE PYX is the annual
test of the British coinage, for which purpose one coin in every 15 lbs. of gold and one in
every 60 lbs. of silver coined is set aside in a pyx or box.

Q

QUADRAGESIMA (i. e. fortieth), a name given to Lent because it lasts forty days, and assigned
also to the first Sunday in Lent, the three Sundays which precede it being called respectively
Septuagesima, Sexagesima, and Quinquagesima.

QUADRANT, an instrument for taking altitudes, consisting of the graduated arc of a circle of
ninety degrees.

QUADRATIC EQUATION, an equation involving the square of the unknown quantity.

QUADRIGA, a two-wheeled chariot drawn by four horses abreast, used in the ancient chariot races.

QUADRILATERAL, THE, the name given to a combination of four fortresses, or the space enclosed
by them, in North Italy, at Mantua, Legnago, Verona, and Peschiera.

QUADROON, the name given to a person quarter-blooded, in particular the offspring of a mulatto
and a white person.

QUADRUPLE ALLIANCE, an alliance formed in 1719 between England, France, Austria, and Holland
to secure the thrones of France and England to the reigning families, and to defeat the schemes
of Alberoni to the aggrandisement of Spain.

QUÆSTORS, the name given in Roman history to the officers entrusted with the care of the public
treasury, originally two in number, one of them to see to the corn supply in Rome, but eventually,
as the empire extended, increased, till in Cæsar's time they amounted to forty. Under the kings
they were the public prosecutors in cases of murder.

QUAIGH, a name formerly given to a wooden drinking-cup in Scotland.

QUAIN, JONES, anatomist, born at Mallow, Ireland; was professor of Anatomy and Physiology in
London University; was author of "Elements of Anatomy," of which the first edition was published
in 1828, and the tenth in 1800 (1796-1865).

QUAIN, RICHARD, anatomist, born at Fermoy, Ireland, brother of preceding, and professor in
London University; author of a number of medical works; bequeathed a large legacy to the university
for "education in modern languages" (1800-1887).

QUAIN, SIR RICHARD, physician, born at Mallow, cousin of preceding; edited "Dictionary of Medicine,"
and was President of Medical Council in 1891 (1816-1898).

QUAIR, an old Scotch name for a book.

QUAKERS, the SOCIETY OF FRIENDS (q. v.), so called first by Justice Bennet of Derby, because
Fox bade him quake before the Lord.

QUARANTINE, the prescribed time, generally 40 days (hence the name), of non-intercourse with
the shore for a ship suspected of infection, latterly enforced, and that very strictly, in
the cases of infection with yellow fever or plague; since November 1896, the system of quarantine
as regards the British Islands has ceased to exist.

QUARLES, FRANCIS, religious poet, born in Essex, of good family; a member of Christ's College,
Cambridge, and Lincoln's Inn; held divers offices at the Court, in the city, and the Church;
was a bigoted Royalist and Churchman, a voluminous author, both in prose and verse, but is
now remembered for his "Divine Emblems," and perhaps his "Enchiridion"; he wrote in his quaint
way not a few good things (1592-1644).

QUARTER DAYS, in England and Ireland Lady Day, 25th March; Midsummer Day, 24th June; Michaelmas
Day, 29th September; and Christmas Day, 25th December; while in Scotland the legal terms are
Whitsunday, 15th May, and Martinmas, 11th November, though the Whitsunday term is now changed
to the 28th May.

QUARTER-DECK, the part of a ship abaft the main-mast, or between the main and mizzen, where
there is a poop.

QUARTER-SESSIONS, a court held every quarter by justices of the peace in the several divisions
of a county to try offences against the peace.

QUARTER-STAFF, strong wooden staff 6½ ft. long, shod with iron, grasped in the middle; formerly
used in England for attack and defence.

QUARTERLY REVIEW, a review started by John Murray, the celebrated London publisher, in February
1809, in rivalry with the Edinburgh, which had been seven years in possession of the field,
and was exerting, as he judged, an evil influence on public opinion; in this enterprise he
was seconded by Southey and Scott, the more cordially that the Edinburgh had given offence
to the latter by its criticism of "Marmion." It was founded in the Tory interest for the defence
of Church and State, and it had Gifford for its first editor, while the contributors included,
besides Southey and Scott, all the ablest literary celebrities on the Tory side, of which the
most zealous and frequent was John Wilson Croker.

QUARTERMASTER, in the army an officer whose duty it is to look after the quarters, clothing,
rations, stores, ammunition, &c., of the regiment, and in the navy a petty officer who has
to see to the stowage, steerage, soundings, &c., of the ship.

QUARTETTE, a musical piece in four parts, or for four voices or instruments.

QUARTO, a book having the sheet folded into four leaves.

QUASIMODO SUNDAY, the first Sunday after Easter.

QUASS, a beer made in Russia from rye grain, employed as vinegar when sour.

QUATRE-BRAS (i. e. four arms), a village 10 m. SE. of Waterloo, where the roads from Brussels
to Charleroi and from Nivelles to Namur intersect: was the scene of an obstinate conflict between
the English under Wellington and the French under Ney, two days before the battle of Waterloo.

QUATREFAGES DE BRÉAU, French naturalist and anthropologist, born at Berthezenne (Gard); studied
medicine at Strasburg; was professor at the Natural History Museum in Paris; devoted himself
chiefly to anthropology and the study of annelides (1810-1892).

QUATREMÈRE, ÉTIENNE MARC, French Orientalist, born in Paris; was professor at the College of
France; was distinguished for his knowledge of Arabic and Persian, as well as for his works
on Egypt; was of vast learning, but defective in critical ability (1782-1857).

QUATREMÈRE DE QUINCY, a learned French archæologist and writer on art, born in Paris; was involved
in the troubles of the Revolution; narrowly, as a constitutionalist, escaped the guillotine,
and was deported to Cayenne in 1797, but after his return took no part in political affairs;
wrote a "Dictionary of Antiquities" (1755-1849).

QUATRO CENTO (i. e. four hundred), a term employed by the Italians to signify one thousand
four hundred, that is, the 15th century, and applied by them to the literature and art of the
period.

QUEBEC (1,359), formerly called Lower Canada, one of the Canadian provinces occupying that
part of the valley of the St. Lawrence, and a narrow stretch of fertile, well-cultivated land
on the S. of the river, which is bounded on the S. by the States of New York and Maine, and
on the E. by New Brunswick; it is twice the size of Great Britain, and consists of extensive
tracks of cultivated land and forests interspersed with lakes and rivers, affluents of the
St. Lawrence; the soil, which is fertile, yields good crops of cereals, hay, and fruit, and
excellent pasturage, and there is abundance of mineral wealth; it was colonised by the French
in 1608, was taken by the English in 1759-60, and the great majority of the population is of
French extraction.

QUEBEC (63), the capital of the above province, and once of all Canada, a city of historical
interest, is situated on the steep promontory, 333 feet in height, of the NW. bank of the St.
Lawrence, at the mouth of the St. Charles River, 300 m. from the sea, and 180 m. below Montreal;
it is divided into Upper and Lower, the latter the business quarter and the former the west-end,
as it were; there are numerous public buildings, including the governor's residence, an Anglican
cathedral, and a university; it is a commercial centre, has a large trade in timber, besides
several manufacturing industries; the aspect of the town is Norman-French, and there is much
about it and the people to remind one of Normandy.

QUEDLINBURG (19), an old town of Prussian Saxony, on the river Bode, at the foot of the Harz
Mountains, 32 m. SW. of Magdeburg, founded by Henry the Fowler, and where his remains lie;
was long a favourite residence of the emperors of the Saxon line; it has large nurseries, an
extensive trade in flower seeds, and sundry manufactures.

QUEEN ANNE'S BOUNTY, a fund established in 1704 for the augmentation of the incomes of the
poorer clergy, the amount of which for distribution in 1890 was £176,896; it was the revenue
from a tax on the Church prior to the Reformation, and which after that was appropriated by
the Crown.

QUEEN CHARLOTTE ISLANDS, a small group of islands on the W. coast of North America, N. of Vancouver's
Island, 80 m. off the coast of British Columbia, a half-submerged mountain range, densely wooded,
with peaks that rise sheer up 2000 ft.

QUEENBOROUGH, a town on the Isle of Sheppey, 2 m. S. of Sheerness, between which and Flushing,
in Holland, a line of steamers plies daily.

QUEEN'S COLLEGE, a college for women in Harley Street, London, founded in 1848, and incorporated
by Royal Charter in 1853, of which Maurice, Trench, and Kingsley were among the originators;
attendance of three years entitles to the rank of "Associate," and of six or more to that of
"Fellow"; it is self-supporting.

QUEEN'S COLLEGES, colleges established in Ireland in 1845 to afford a university education
to members of all religious denominations, and opened at Belfast, Cork, and Galway in 1849,
the first having 23 professors, with 343 students; the second 23 professors, with 181 students;
and the third 37 professors, with 91 students. There is also a Queen's College in Melbourne.

QUEEN'S COUNTY (6), one of the inland counties of Leinster, in Ireland, N. of King's County,
mostly flat; agriculture and dairy-farming are carried on, with a little woollen and cotton-weaving;
population mostly Roman Catholics.

QUEEN'S METAL, an alloy of nine parts tin and one each of antimony, lead, and bismuth, is intermediate
in hardness between pewter and britannia metal.

QUEENSLAND, a British colony occupying the NE. of Australia, 1300 m. from N. to S. and 800
m. from E. to W., two-thirds of it within the tropics, and occupying an area three times as
large as that of France. Mountains stretch away N. parallel to the coast, and much of the centre
is tableland; one-half of it is covered with forests, and it is fairly well watered, the rivers
being numerous, and the chief the Fitzroy and the Burdekin. The population is only half a million,
and the chief towns are Brisbane, the capital, Gympie, Maryborough, Rockhampton, and Townsville.
The pastoral industry is very large, and there is considerable mining for gold. The mineral
resources are great, and a coal-field still to be worked exists in it as large as the whole
of Scotland. Maize and sugar are the principal products of the soil, and wool, gold, and sugar
are the principal exports; the colony is capable of immense developments. Until 1859 the territory
was administered by New South Wales, but in that year it became an independent colony, with
a government of its own under a Governor appointed by the Crown; the Parliament consists of
two Houses, a Legislative Council of 41 members, nominated by the Governor, and the Legislative
Assembly of 72 members, elected for three years by manhood suffrage.

QUEENSTOWN, a seaport, formerly called the Cove of Cork, on the S. shore of Great Island, and
14 m. SE. of Cork; a port of call for the Atlantic line of steamers, specially important for
the receipt and landing of the mails.

QUELPART (10), an island 52 m. S. of the Corea, 40 m. long by 17 broad, surrounded with small
islets in situation to the Corea as Sicily to Italy.

QUERCITRON, a yellow dye obtained from the bark of a North American oak.

QUERÉTARO (36), a high-lying Mexican town in a province of the same name, 150 m. NW. of Mexico;
has large cotton-spinning mills; here the Emperor Maximilian was shot by order of court-martial
in 1867.

QUERN, a handmill of stone for grinding corn, of primitive contrivance, and still used in remote
parts of Ireland and Scotland.

QUESNAY, FRANÇOIS, a great French economist, born at Mérez (Seine-et-Oise), bred to the medical
profession, and eminent as a medical practitioner, was consulting physician to Louis XV., but
distinguished for his articles in the "Encyclopédie" on political economy, and as the founder
of the PHYSIOCRATIC SCHOOL (q. v.), the school which attaches special importance in State economy
to agriculture (1694-1774).

QUESNEL, PASQUIER, a French Jansenist theologian, born in Paris; was the author of a great
many works, but the most celebrated is his "Reflexions Morales"; was educated at the Sorbonne,
and became head of the congregation of the Oratory in Paris, but was obliged to seek refuge
in Holland with Arnauld on embracing Jansenism; his views exposed him to severe persecution
at the hands of the Jesuits, and his "Reflexions" were condemned in 101 propositions by the
celebrated bull Unigenitus; spent his last years at Amsterdam, and died there (1634-1719).

QUÉTELET, ADOLPHE, Belgian astronomer and statistician, born at Ghent; wrote on meteorology
and anthropology, in the light especially of statistics (1796-1874).

QUETTA, a strongly fortified town in the N. of Beluchistan, commanding the Bolan Pass, and
occupied by a British garrison. It is also a health resort from the temperate climate it enjoys.

QUEUES, BAKERS', "long strings of purchasers arranged in tail at the bakers' shop doors in
Paris during the Revolution period, so that first come be first served, were the shops once
open," and that came to be a Parisian institution.

QUEVEDO Y VILLEGAS, Francisco Gomez de, a Spanish poet, born at Madrid, of an old illustrious
family; left an orphan at an early age, and educated at Alcalá, the university of which he
left with a great name for scholarship; served as diplomatist and administrator in Sicily under
the Duke of Ossuna, the viceroy, and returned to the Court of Philip IV. in Spain at his death;
struggled hard to purify the corrupt system of appointments to office in the State then prevailing
but was seized and thrown into confinement, from which, after four years, he was released,
broken in health; he wrote much in verse, but only for his own solace and in communication
with his friends, and still more in prose on a variety of themes, he being a writer of the
most versatile ability, of great range and attainment (1580-1645).

QUIBÉRON, a small fishing village on a peninsula of the name, stretching southward from Morbihan,
France, near which Hawke defeated a French fleet in 1759, and where a body of French emigrants
attempted to land in 1795 in order to raise an insurrection, but were defeated by General Hoche.

QUICHUAS, a civilised people who flourished at one time in Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, and
spoke a highly-cultivated language called Quichua after them.

QUICK, ROBERT HEBERT, English educationist; wrote "Essays on Educational Reformers"; was in
holy orders (1832-1891).

QUICKSAND, sandbank so saturated with water that it gives way under pressure; found near the
mouths of rivers.

QUIETISM, the name given to a mystical religious turn of mind which seeks to attain spiritual
illumination and perfection by maintaining a purely passive and susceptive attitude to Divine
communication and revelation, shutting out all consciousness of self and all sense of external
things, and independently of the observance of the practical virtues. The high-priest of Quietism
was the Spanish priest MOLINOS (q. v.), and his chief disciple in France was Madame de Guyon,
who infected the mind of the saintly Fénélon. The appearance of it in France, and especially
Fénélon's partiality to it, awoke the hostility of Bossuet, who roused the Church against it,
as calculated to have an injurious effect on the interests of practical morality; indeed the
hostility became so pronounced that Fénélon was forced to retract, to the gradual dying out
of the fanaticism.

QUILIMANE (6), a seaport of East Africa, on the Mozambique Channel, in a district subject to
Portugal; stands 15 m. from the mouth of a river of the name.

QUILON, a trading town on the W. coast of Travancore, 85 m. N. of Comorin.

QUIMPER (17), a French town 63 m. SE. of Brest, with a much admired cathedral; has sundry manufactures,
and a fishing industry.

QUIN, JAMES, a celebrated actor, born in London; was celebrated for his representation of Falstaff,
and was the first actor of the day till the appearance of Garrick in 1741 (1693-1766).

QUINAULT, French poet; his first performances procured for him the censure of Boileau, but
his operas, for which Luini composed the music, earned for him a good standing among lyric
poets (1635-1688).

QUINCEY, DE. See DE QUINCEY.

QUINCY (31), a city in Illinois, U.S., on the Mississippi, 160 m. above St. Louis; a handsome
city, with a large trade and extensive factories; is a great railway centre.

QUINCY, JOSIAH, American statesman, born at Boston; was bred to the bar, and entered Congress
in 1804, where he distinguished himself by his oratory as leader of the Federal party, as the
sworn foe of slave-holding, and as an opponent of the admission of the Western States into
the Union; in 1812 he retired from Congress, gave himself for a time to purely local affairs
in Massachusetts, and at length to literary labours, editing his speeches for one thing, without
ceasing to interest himself in the anti-slavery movement (1772-1864).

QUINET, EDGAR, a French man of letters, born at Bourg, in the department of Ain; was educated
at Bourg and Lyons, went to Paris in 1820, and in 1823 produced a satire called "Les Tablettes
du Juif-Errant," at which time he came under the influence of HERDER (q. v.) and executed in
French a translation of his "Philosophy of Humanity," prefaced with an introduction which procured
him the friendship of Michelet, a friendship which lasted with life; appointed to a post in
Greece, he collected materials for a work on Modern Greece, and this, the first fruit of his
own view of things as a speculative Radical, he published in 1830; he now entered the service
of the Revue des Deux Mondes, and in the pages of it his prose poem "Ahasuérus" appeared, which
was afterwards published in a book form and soon found a place in the "Index Expurgatorius"
of the Church; this was followed by other democratic poems, "Napoleon" in 1835 and "Prometheus"
in 1838; from 1838 to 1842 he occupied the chair of Foreign Literature in Lyons, and passed
from it to that of the Literature of Southern Europe in the College of France; here, along
with Michelet, he commenced a vehement crusade against the clerical party, which was brought
to a head by his attack on the Jesuits, and which led to his suspension from the duties of
the chair in 1846; he distrusted Louis Napoleon, and was exiled in 1852, taking up his abode
at Brussels, to return to Paris again only after the Emperor's fall; through all these troubles
he was busy with his pen, in 1838 published his "Examen de la Vie de Jésus," his "Du Genie
des Religions," "La Révolution Religieuse au xix^{e} Siècle," and other works; he was a disciple
of Herder to the last; he believed in humanity, and religion as the soul of it (1803-1875).

QUININE, an alkaloid obtained from the bark of several species of the cinchona tree and others,
and which is employed in medicine specially as a ferbrifuge and a tonic.

QUINISEXT, an ecclesiastical council held at Constantinople in 692, composed chiefly of Eastern
bishops, and not reckoned among the councils of the Western Church.

QUINQUAGESIMA SUNDAY, the Sunday before the beginning of Lent.

QUINSY, inflammation of the tonsils of the throat.

QUINTANA, MANUEL JOSÉ, a Spanish lyric and dramatic poet, born in Madrid; was for a time the
champion of liberal ideas in politics, which he ceased to advocate before he died; is celebrated
as the author of a classic work, being "Lives of Celebrated Spaniards" (1772-1857).

QUINTETTE, a musical composition in obligato parts for five voices or five instruments.

QUINTILIAN, MARCUS FABIUS, celebrated Latin rhetorician, born in Spain; went to Rome in the
train of Galba, and began to practise at the bar, but achieved his fame more as teacher in
rhetoric than a practitioner at the bar, a function he discharged with brilliant success for
20 years under the patronage and favour of the Emperor Vespasian in particular, being invested
by him in consequence with the insignia and title of consul; with posterity his fame rests
on his "Institutes," a great work, being a complete system of rhetoric in 12 books; he commenced
it in the reign of Domitian after his retirement from his duties as a public instructor, and
it occupied him two years; it is a wise book, ably written, and fraught with manifold instruction
to all whose chosen profession it is to persuade men (35-92).

QUIPO, knotted cords of different colours used by the ancient Mexicans and Peruvians for conveying
orders or recording events.

QUIRINAL, one of the seven hills on which Rome was built, N. of the Palatine, and one of the
oldest quarters of the city.

QUIRITES, the name the citizens of Rome assumed in their civic capacity.

QUITO (80), the capital of Ecuador, situated at an elevation of nearly 9000 ft. above the sea-level,
and cut up with ravines; stands in a region of perpetual spring and amid picturesque surroundings,
the air clear and the sky a dark deep blue. The chief buildings are of stone, but all the ordinary
dwellings are of sun-dried brick and without chimneys. It is in the heart of a volcanic region,
and is subject to frequent earthquakes, in one of which, in 1797, 40,000 of the inhabitants
perished. The population consists chiefly of Indians, whose religious interests must be well
cared for, for there are no fewer than 400 priests to watch over their spiritual welfare.

QUITO, CORDILLERA OF, a chain of mountains, the chief of them volcanic, in Ecuador, containing
the loftiest peaks of the Andes, and including among them Antisana, Cotopaxi, and Chimborazo.

QUIT-RENT, a rent the payment of which frees the tenant of a holding from other services such
as were obligatory under feudal tenure.

QUORRA, the name given to the middle and lower course of the Niger.

QUORUM, the number of the members of a governing body required by law to give legality to any
transaction in the name of it.

QURÂN. See KORÂN.

R

RAAB (20), a town in Hungary, 67 m. NW. of Buda Pesth, manufactures tobacco and cutlery.

RAASAY, one of the Inner Hebrides, belonging to Inverness-shire, lies between Skye and Ross-shire;
bare on the W., picturesque on the E.; has interesting ruins of Brochel Castle.

RABANT DE ST. ÉTIENNE, a moderate French Revolutionary; member of the Constituent Assembly;
one of the Girondists; opposed the extreme party, and concealed himself between two walls he
had built in his brother's house; was discovered, and doomed to the guillotine, as were also
those who protected him (1743-1793).

RABAT (26), known also as NEW SALLEE, a declining port in Morocco, finely situated on elevated
ground overlooking the mouth of the Bu-Ragrag River, 115 m. SE. of Fez; is surrounded by walls,
and has a commanding citadel, a noted tower, interesting ruins, &c.; manufactures carpets,
mats, &c., and exports olive-oil, grain, wool, &c.

RABBI (lit. my master), an appellation of honour applied to a teacher of the Law among the
Jews, in frequent use among them in the days of Christ, who was frequently saluted by this title.

RABBISM, the name applied in modern times to the principles and methods of the Jewish Rabbis,
particularly in the interpretation of the Jewish Scriptures.

RABELAIS, FRANÇOIS, great French humorist, born at Chinon, the son of a poor apothecary; was
sent to a convent at nine; became a Franciscan monk; read and studied a great deal, but, sick
of convent life, ran away at forty years of age; went to Montpellier, and studied medicine,
and for a time practised it, particularly at Lyons; here he commenced the series of writings
that have immortalised his name, his "Gargantua" and "Pantagruel," which he finished as curé
of Meudon, forming a succession of satires in a vein of riotous mirth on monks, priests, pedants,
and all the incarnate solecisms of the time, yet with all their licentiousness revealing a
heart in love with mankind, and a passionate desire for the establishment of truth and justice
among men (1495-1553).

RACES OF MANKIND. These have been divided into five, the CAUCASIAN (q. v.) or Indo-European,
the Mongolian or Yellow, the Negro or Black, the Malayan or Tawny, and the India or Copper-coloured.

RACHEL, ELIZA, a great French tragédienne, born in Switzerland, of Jewish parents; made her
début in Paris in 1838, and soon became famous as the interpreter of the principal characters
in the masterpieces of Racine and Corneille, her crowning triumph being the representation,
in 1843, of Phèdre in the tragedy of Racine; she made a great impression wherever she appeared,
realised a large fortune, and died of decline (1821-1858).

RACINE (21), a flourishing city of Wisconsin, U.S.A., capital of Racine County, at the entrance
of Root River into Lake Michigan, 62 m. N. of Chicago; has an Episcopal university: trades
in lumber, flax, and the products of various factories.

RACINE, JEAN, great French tragic poet, born at La Ferté Milon, in the dep. of Aisne; was educated
at Beauvais and the Port Royal; in 1663 settled in Paris, gained the favour of Louis XIV. and
the friendship of Boileau, La Fontaine, and Molière, though he quarrelled with the latter,
and finally lost favour with the king, which he never recovered, and which hastened his death;
he raised the French language to the highest pitch of perfection in his tragedies, of which
the chief are "Andromaque" (1667), "Britannicus" (1669), "Mithridate" (1673), "Iphigénie" (1774),
"Phèdre" (1677), "Esther" (1688), and "Athalie" (1691), as well as an exquisite comedy entitled
"Les Plaideurs" (1669); when Voltaire was asked to write a commentary on Racine, his answer
was, "One had only to write at the foot of each page, beau, pathétique, harmonieux, admirable,
sublime" (1639-1699).

RACK, an instrument of torture; consisted of an oblong wooden frame, fitted with cords and
levers, by means of which the victim's limbs were racked to the point of dislocation; dates
back to Roman times, and was used against the early Christians; much resorted to by the Spanish
Inquisition, and also at times by the Tudor monarchs of England, though subsequently prohibited
by law in England.

RADCLIFFE (20), a prosperous town of Lancashire, on the Irwell, 7 m. NW. of Manchester; manufactures
cotton, calico, and paper; has bleaching and dye works, and good coal-mines.

RADCLIFFE, MRS. ANN, née WARD, English novelist, born in London; wrote a series of popular
works which abound in weird tales and scenes of old castles and gloomy forests, and of which
the best known is the "Mysteries of Udolpho" (1764-1823).

RADCLIFFE, JOHN, physician, born at Wakefield, studied at Oxford; commenced practice in London;
by his art and professional skill rose to eminence; attended King William and Queen Mary; summoned
to attend Queen Anne but did not, pleading illness, and on the queen's death was obliged to
disappear from London; left £40,000 to found a public library in the University of Oxford (1650-1714).

RADETZKY, JOHANN, COUNT VON, Austrian field-marshal, born in Bohemia; entered the Austrian
army in 1784; distinguished himself in the war with Turkey in 1788-89, and in all the wars
of Austria with France; checked the Revolution in Lombardy in 1848; defeated and almost annihilated
the Piedmontese army under Charles Albert in 1849, and compelled Venice to capitulate in the
same year, after which he was appointed Governor of Lombardy (1766-1858).

RADICALS, a class of English politicians who, at the end of the 18th century and the beginning
of the 19th, aimed at the political emancipation of the mass of the people by giving them a
share in the election of parliamentary representatives. Their Radicalism went no farther than
that, and on principle could not go farther.

RADNORSHIRE (22), the least populous of the Welsh counties; lies on the English border between
Montgomery (N.) and Brecknock (S.); has a wild and dreary surface, mountainous and woody. RADNOR
FOREST covers an elevated heathy tract in the E.; is watered by the Wye and the Teme. The soil
does not favour agriculture, and stock-raising is the chief industry. Contains some excellent
spas, that at Llandrindod the most popular. County town, Presteign.

RADOWITZ, JOSEPH VON, Prussian statesman; entered the army as an artillery officer, rose to
be chief of the artillery staff; by marriage became connected with the aristocracy; at length
head of the Anti-Revolutionary party in the State, and the political adviser of William IV.,
in which capacity he endeavoured to effect a reform of the German Diet, and to give a political
constitution to Germany (1797-1853).

RAE, JOHN, Arctic voyager, born in Orkney, studied medicine in Edinburgh; first visited the
Arctic regions as a surgeon; was engaged in three expeditions to these regions, of which he
published reports; was made a LL.D. of Edinburgh University on the occasion of Carlyle's installation
as Lord Rector (1813-1893).

RAEBURN, SIR HENRY, portrait-painter, born at Stockbridge, Edinburgh; was educated at George
Heriot's Hospital; apprenticed to a goldsmith in the city, and gave early promise of his abilities
as an artist; went to Italy; was introduced to Reynolds by the way, and after two years' absence
settled in Edinburgh, and became famous as one of the greatest painters of the day; the portraits
he painted included likenesses of all the distinguished Scotsmen of the period, at the head
of them Sir Walter Scott; was knighted by George IV. a short time before his death (1756-1823).

RAFF, JOACHIM, musical composer of the Wagner School, born at Lachen, in Switzerland; began
life as a schoolmaster; was attracted to music; studied at Weimar; lived near Liszt, and became
Director of the Conservatorium at Frankfort-on-Main; his works include symphonies, overtures,
with pieces for the violin and the piano (1822-1882).

RAFFLES, SIR THOMAS STAMFORD, English administrator, born in Jamaica; entered the East India
Company's service, and rose in it; became Governor of Java, and wrote a history of it; held
afterwards an important post in Sumatra, and formed a settlement at Singapore; returned to
England with a rich collection of natural objects and documents, but lost most of them by the
ship taking fire (1781-1826).

RAFN, KARL CHRISTIAN, Danish archæologist, born in Fünen; devoted his life to the study of
northern antiquities; edited numerous Norse MSS.; executed translations of Norse literature;
wrote original treatises in the same interest, and by his researches established the fact of
the discovery of America by the Norsemen in the 10th century (1796-1864).

RAGGED SCHOOLS, a name given to the charity schools which provide education and, in most cases,
food, clothing, and lodging for destitute children; they receive no Government support. The
movement had its beginning in the magnanimous efforts of John Pounds (d. 1839), a shoemaker
of Portsmouth; but the zeal and eloquence of Dr. GUTHRIE (q. v.) of Edinburgh greatly furthered
the development and spread of these schools throughout the kingdom.

RAGLAN, FITZROY SOMERSET, LORD, youngest son of the Duke of Beaufort; entered the army at sixteen;
served with distinction all through the Peninsular War; became aide-de-camp to the Duke of
Wellington, and his military secretary; lost his right arm at Waterloo; did diplomatic service
at Paris in 1815, and held afterwards a succession of important military posts; was appointed
commander-in-chief of the British forces in the Crimea, and was present at all the engagements
till attacked by cholera, aggravated by a repulse and unjust reflections on his conduct of
the war, he sank exhausted and died (1788-1855).

RAGMAN ROLL, the name given to a record of the acts of fealty and homage done by the Scottish
nobility and gentry in 1296 to Edward I. of England, and of value for the list it supplies
of the nobles, gentry, burgesses, and clergy of the country at that period. The original written
rolls of parchment have perished, but an abridged form is extant, and preserved in the Tower
of London.

RAGUSA, a decayed Austrian city on the Dalmatian coast, fronting the Adriatic; has interesting
remains of its ancient greatness, and still contains several fine monastic and other buildings.

RAHEL, wife of Varnhagen von Ense, born in Berlin, of Jewish parentage; was a woman of "rare
gifts, worth, and true genius, and equal to the highest thoughts of her century," and lived
in intimate relation with all the intellectual lights of Germany at the time; worshipped at
the shrine of Goethe, and was the foster-mother of German genius generally in her day; she
did nothing of a literary kind herself; all that remains of her gifts in that line are her
Letters, published by her husband on her death, which letters, however, are intensively subjective,
and reveal the state rather of her feelings than the thoughts of her mind (1771-1833).

RAIKES, ROBERT, the founder of Sunday Schools, born in Gloucester; by profession a printer;
lived to see his pet institution established far and wide over England; left a fortune for
benevolent objects (1735-1811).

RAILWAY KING, name given by Sydney Smith to GEORGE HUDSON (q. v.), the great railway speculator,
who is said to have one day in the course of his speculations realised as much in scrip as
£100,000.

RAINY, ROBERT, eminent Scottish ecclesiastic, born in Glasgow; professor of Church History
and Principal in the Free Church College, Edinburgh; an able man, a sagacious and an earnest,
a distinguished leader of the Free Church; forced into that position more by circumstances,
it is believed, than by natural inclination, and in that situation some think more a loss than
a gain to the Church catholic, to which in heart and as a scholar he belongs; b. 1826.

RAJAH, a title which originally belonged to princes of the Hindu race, who exercised sovereign
rights over some tract of territory; now applied loosely to native princes or nobles with or
without territorial lordship.

RAJMAHAL (4), an interesting old Indian town, crowns an elevated site on the Ganges, 170 m.
NW. of Calcutta; has ruins of several palaces.

RAJON, PAUL ADOLPHE, French etcher, born at Dijon; made his mark in 1866 with his "Rembrandt
at Work"; carried off medals at the Salon; visited England in 1872, and executed notable etchings
of portraits of J.S. Mill, Darwin, Tennyson, &c. (1842-1888).

RAJPUT, a name given to a Hindu of royal descent or of the high military caste. See CASTE.

RAJPUTANA (12,016), an extensive tract of country in the NW. of India, S. of the Punjab, embracing
some twenty native States and the British district, Ajmere-Merwara. The Aravalli Hills traverse
the S., while the Thar or Great Indian Desert occupies the N. and W. Jodhpur is the largest
of the native territories, and the Rajputs, a proud and warlike people are the dominant race
in many of the States.

RAKOCZY MARCH, the national anthem of the Hungarians, composed about the end of the 17th century
by an unknown composer, and said to have been the favourite march of Francis Rakoczy II. of
Transylvania.

RAKSHASAS, in the Hindu mythology a species of evil spirits, akin to ogres.

RALEIGH, SIR WALTER, courtier, soldier, and man of letters, born near Budleigh, in E. Devon,
of ancient family; entered as student at Oxford, but at 17 joined a small volunteer force in
aid of the Protestants in France; in 1580 distinguished himself in suppressing a rebellion
in Ireland; was in 1582 introduced at court, fascinated the heart of the Queen by his handsome
presence and his gallant bearing, and received no end of favours at her hand; joined his half-brother,
Sir Humphrey Gilbert, in an expedition to North America, founded a colony, which he called
Virginia in honour of the queen, and brought home with him the potato and the tobacco plants,
till then unknown in this country; rendered distinguished services in the destruction of the
Armada; visited and explored Guiana, and brought back tidings of its wealth in gold and precious
things; fell into disfavour with the queen, but regained her esteem; under King James he became
suspected of disloyalty, and was committed to the Tower, where he remained 12 years, and wrote
his "History of the World"; on his release, but without a pardon, he set out to the Orinoco
in quest of gold-mines there, but returned heart-broken and to be sentenced to die; he met
his fate with calm courage, and was beheaded in the Old Palace Yard; of the executioner's axe
he smilingly remarked, "A sharp medicine, but an infallible cure" (1552-1618).

RALSTON, WILLIAM SHEDDEN, a noted Russian scholar and translator, born in London; studied at
Cambridge, and in 1862 was called to the bar, but never practised; assistant in the British
Museum library till 1875; visited Russia; his works embrace "Songs of the Russian People,"
"Russian Folk-Tales," &c. (1828-1889).

RÂMA, in the Hindu mythology an avatar of Vishnu, being the seventh, in the character of a
hero, a destroyer of monsters and a bringer of joy, as the name signifies, the narrative of
whose exploits are given in the "RÂMÂYANA" (q. v.).

RAMADAN, the ninth month of the Mohammedan year, a kind of Lent, held sacred as a month of
fasting by all Moslems, being the month in the life of Mahomet when, as he spent it alone in
meditation and prayer, his eyes were opened to see, through the shows of things, into the one
eternal Reality, the greatness and absolute sovereignty of Allah.

RÂMÂYANA, one of the two great epic poems, and the best, of the Hindus, celebrating the life
and exploits of Râma, "a work of art in which an elevated religious and moral spirit is allied
with much poetic fiction, ... written in accents of an ardent charity, of a compassion, a tenderness,
and a humility at once sweet and plaintive, which ever and anon suggest Christian influences."

RAMBLER, a periodical containing essays by Johnson in the Spectator vein, issued in 1750-52,
but written in that "stiff and cumbrous style which," as Professor Saintsbury remarks, "has
been rather unjustly identified with Johnson's manner of writing generally."

RAMBOUILLET, MARQUISE DE, a lady of wealth and a lover of literature and art, born in Rome,
who settled in Paris, and conceiving the idea of forming a society of her own, gathered together
into her salon a select circle of intellectual people, which, degenerating into pedantry, became
an object of general ridicule, and was dissolved at her death (1588-1665).

RAMEAU, JEAN PHILIPPE, French composer, born at Dijon; wrote on harmony, and, settling in Paris,
composed operas, his first "Hippolyte et Aricie," and his best "Castor et Pollux" (1683-1764).

RAMESES, the name of several ancient kings of Egypt, of which the most famous are R. II., who
erected a number of monuments in token of his greatness, and at whose court Moses was brought
up; and R. III., the first king of the twentieth dynasty, under whose successors the power
of Egypt fell into decay.

RAMILLIES, Belgian village in Brabant, 14 m. N. of Namur; scene of Marlborough's victory over
the French under Villeroy in 1706.

RAMMOHUN ROY, a Brahman, founder of the Brahmo-Somaj, born at Burdwân, Lower Bengal; by study
of the theology of the West was led to embrace deism, and tried to persuade his countrymen
to accept the same faith, by proofs which he advanced to show that it was the doctrine of their
own sacred books, in particular the Upanishads; with this view he translated and published
a number of texts from them in vindication of his contention, as well as expounded his own
conviction in original treatises; in doing so he naturally became an object of attack, and
was put on his defence, which he conducted in a succession of writings that remain models of
controversial literature; died in Bristol (1772-1833).

RAMSAY, ALLAN, Scottish poet, born in Crawford, Lanarkshire; bred a wig-maker; took to bookselling,
and published his own poems, "The Gentle Shepherd," a pastoral, among the number, a piece which
describes and depicts manners very charmingly (1686-1758).

RAMSAY, ALLAN, portrait-painter, son of preceding; studied three years in Italy, settled in
London, and was named first painter to George III. (1715-1764).

RAMSAY, EDWARD BANNERMAN, dean of Edinburgh, born at Aberdeen, graduated at Cambridge; held
several curacies; became incumbent of St. John's Episcopal Church, Edinburgh, in 1830, and
dean of the diocese in 1840; declined a bishopric twice over; is widely known as the author
of "Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character"; was a most genial, lovable man, a great
lover of his country, and much esteemed in his day by all the citizens of Edinburgh (1793-1872).

RAMSBOTTOM (17), a busy manufacturing town in Lancashire, on the Irwell, 4 m. N. of Bury, engaged
in cotton-weaving, calico-printing, rope-making, &c.

RAMSDEN, JESSE, mathematical instrument-maker and inventor, born in Yorkshire; invented the
theodolite for the Ordnance Survey of Great Britain (1735-1800).

RAMSEY, a beautifully situated, healthy watering-place, 14 m. NE. of Douglas, in the Isle of Man.

RAMSGATE (25), a popular watering-place in the Isle of Thanet, Kent, fronting the Downs, 72
m. E. by S. of London; has a famous harbour of refuge; to the W. lies Pegwell Bay with Ebbsfleet.

RAMUS, PETER, or PIERRE DE LA RAMÉE, a French philosopher and humanist, son of poor parents;
became a servant in the College of Navarre; devoted his leisure to study, and became a great
scholar; attacked scholasticism in a work against Aristotle as the main pillar of the system,
and was interdicted from teaching philosophy, but the judgment was reversed by Henry II., and
he was made a royal professor; he turned Protestant in the end, and was massacred on the eve
of St. Bartholomew (1515-1572).

RANAVALONA III., queen of Madagascar; was crowned in 1883, but her kingdom and capital were
taken from her by the French in 1893, and she is now queen only in name; b. 1861.

RANCHING, a term of Spanish derivation applied to the business of rearing cattle, as carried
on in the southern and western States of America; vast herds of cattle in a half-wild condition
are raised on the wide stretches of prairie land, and are tended by "cowboys," whose free,
adventurous life attracts men of all sorts and conditions.

RANDALL, JAMES RYDER, American journalist; author of "Maryland, my Maryland," "Stonewall Jackson,"
and other popular lyrics, which greatly heartened the Southern cause in the Civil War; born
in Baltimore; engaged in teaching till he took to journalism; b. 1839.

RANDOLPH, JOHN, a noted eccentric American politician, born at Cawsons, Virginia; entered Congress
in 1799, and held a commanding position there as leader of the Democratic party; was a witty,
sarcastic speaker; sat in the Senate from 1825 to 1827, and in 1830 was Minister to Russia;
liberated and provided for his slaves (1773-1833).

RANDOLPH, SIR THOMAS, English diplomatist, was sent on diplomatic missions by Queen Elizabeth,
and particularly mixed up in Scotch intrigues, and had to flee from Scotland for his life;
left Memoirs (1523-1590).

RANDOLPH, THOMAS, English poet, wrote odes and sundry dramas, of which the "Muses' Looking-Glass"
and "Amyntas" are the best, though not absolutely good (1605-1634).

RANEE, name given to a Hindu princess or queen; a rajah's wife.

RANELAGH, a place of resort in grounds at Chelsea of people of fashion during the last half
of the 18th century, with a promenade where music and dancing were the chief attractions.

RANGOON (180), capital and chief port of British Burmah, situated 20 m. inland from the Gulf
of Martaban, on the Hlaing or Rangoon River, the eastmost of the delta streams of the Irrawaddy;
British since 1852; a well-appointed city of modern appearance, strongly fortified; contains
the famous Shway-Dagon pagoda erected in the 6th century B.C.; has extensive docks, and negotiates
the vast bulk of Burmese exports and imports; the former include teak, gums, spices, and rice.

RANJIT SINGH, the maharajah of the Sikhs, after taking possession of Lahore, became undisputed
master of the Punjab, and imposed on his subjects the monarchical form of government, which
was shattered to fragments after his death; he was the possessor of the Koh-i-Nur diamond (1797-1839).

RANJITSINHJI, Indian prince, born at Sarodar; studied at Cambridge; devoted himself to cricket,
and became famous for his brilliant play; b. 1872.

RANKE, LEOPOLD VON, distinguished German historian, born in Thüringia just 16 days after Thomas
Carlyle; began life similarly as a teacher and devoted his leisure hours to the study of history
and the publication of historical works; was in 1825 appointed professor of History at Berlin;
was commissioned by the Prussian government to explore the historical archives of Vienna, Rome,
and Venice, the fruit of which was seen in his subsequent historical labours, which bore not
only upon the critical periods of German history, but those of Italy, France, and even England;
of his numerous works, all founded on the impartial study of facts, it is enough to mention
here his "History of the Popes in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries" and his "German
History in the Times of the Reformation" (1795-1886).

RANKINE, W. J. MACQUORN, mathematician and physicist, born in Edinburgh; devoted himself to
engineering, and held the chair of Engineering in Glasgow University; wrote extensively on
mathematical and physical subjects, both theoretical and practical (1820-1872).

RANNOCH, an elevated, dreary moorland in NW. of Perthshire, crossed by the West Highland Railway;
Lochs Rannoch and Tummel lie to the E. and Loch Lydoch in the W.

RANTERS, a name given to the Primitive Methodists who seceded from the Wesleyan body on account
of a deficiency of zeal.

RANZ DES VACHES, a simple melody, played on the horn by the Swiss Alpine herdsmen as they drive
their cattle to or from the pasture, and which, when played in foreign lands, produces on a
Swiss an almost irrepressible yearning for home.

RAPE OF THE LOCK, a dainty production of Pope's, pronounced by Stopford Brooke to be "the most
brilliant occasional poem in the language."

RAPHAEL, one of the seven archangels and the guardian of mankind, conducted Tobias to the country
of the Medes and aided him in capturing the miraculous fish, an effigies of which, as also
a pilgrim's staff, is an attribute of the archangel.

RAPHAEL, SANTI, celebrated painter, sculptor, and architect, born at Urbino, son of a painter;
studied under Perugino for several years, visited Florence in 1504, and chiefly lived there
till 1508, when he was called to Rome by Pope Julius II., where he spent the rest of his short
life and founded a school, several of the members of which became eminent in art; he was one
of the greatest of artists, and his works were numerous and varied, which included frescoes,
cartoons, madonnas, portraits, easel pictures, drawings, &c., besides sculpture and architectural
designs, and all within the brief period of 37 years; he had nearly finished "The Transfiguration"
when he died of fever caught in the excavations of Rome; he was what might be called a learned
artist, and his works were the fruits of the study of the masters that preceded him, particularly
Perugino and the Florentines, and only in the end might his work be called his own; it is for
this reason that modern Pre-Raphaelitism is so called, as presumed to be observant of the simple
dictum of Ruskin, "Look at Nature with your own eyes, and paint only what yourselves see" (1483-1520).
See PRE-RAPHAELITISM.

RAPIN DE THOYRAS, French historian, born at Castres; driven from France by the Revocation of
the Edict of Nantes, settled in Holland, came over to England with and served under the Prince
of Orange, withdrew to Holland and wrote a "History of England," deservedly much in repute
for long, if not still (1661-1725).

RAPP, GEORGE, German fanatic, born in Würtemberg, emigrated to America, and founded a fraternity
called Harmonites, who by tillage of land on the Ohio and otherwise amassed great wealth, to
be kept in store for the service of Christ at His second coming (1770-1847).

RAPP, JEAN, French general, born at Colmar; served under Napoleon with distinction all through
his wars, held Danzig for a whole year against a powerful Russian army, was kept prisoner by
the Russians after surrender, returned to France, and submitted to Louis XVIII. after Waterloo
(1772-1821).

RAPPAHANNOCK, a navigable river of Virginia State, rises in the Alleghanies, and after a course
of 125 m. to the SE. discharges into Chesapeake Bay.

RASHI, a Jewish scholar and exegete, born at Troyes; was an expert in all departments of Jewish
lore as contained in both the Scriptures and the Talmud, and indulged much in the favourite
Rabbinical allegorical style of interpretation (1040-1105).

RASK, RASMUS CHRISTIAN, Danish philologist, born near Odense; studied first the primitive languages
of the North, chiefly Icelandic, and then those of the East, and published the results of his
researches both by his writings and as professor of Oriental Languages and of Icelandic in
the university of Copenhagen (1787-1832).

RASKOLINK (lit. a separatist), in Russia a sect, of which there are many varieties, of dissenters
from the Greek Church.

RASPAIL, FRANÇOIS VINCENT, French chemist, physiologist, and socialist; got into trouble both
under Louis Philippe and Louis Napoleon for his political opinions (1794-1878).

RASSAM, HORMUZD, Assyriologist, born at Mosul; assisted Layard in his explorations at Nineveh,
and was subsequently, under support from Britain, engaged in further explorations both there
and elsewhere; being sent on a mission to Abyssinia, was put in prison and only released after
the defeat of Theodore; b. 1826.

RASSELAS, a quasi-novel written in 1759 by Johnson to pay the expenses of his mother's funeral,
the subject of which is an imaginary prince of Abyssinia, and its aim a satire in sombre vein
on human life.

RASTATT or RASTADT (12), a town in Baden, on the Murg, 15 m. SW. of Carlsruhe; is fortified,
and manufactures hardware, beer, and tobacco.

RATAÑA, a brandy flavoured with kernels of fruits.

RATHLIN (1), a picturesque, cliff-girt island (6½ by 1-1/3 m.) off the N. coast of Antrim;
fishing is the chief industry; has interesting historical associations.

RATICH, WOLFGANG, German educationalist, born in Wilster (Holstein); a forerunner of Comenius;
his theory of education, which in his hands proved a failure, was based on Baconian principles;
proceeded from things to names, and from the mother tongue to foreign ones (1571-1635).

RATIONAL HORIZON, a great circle parallel to the horizon, the centre of which is the centre
of the earth.

RATIONALISM, MODERN, a speculative point of view that resolves the supernatural into the natural,
inspiration into observation, and revelation into what its adherents called reason, when they
mean simply understanding, and which ends in stripping us naked, and leaving us empty of all
the spiritual wealth accumulated by the wise in past ages, and bequeathed to us as an inheritance
that had cost them their life's blood.

RATISBON or REGENSBURG (38), one of the oldest and most interesting of German towns in Bavaria,
on the Danube, 82 m. NE. of Münich; has a quaint and mediæval appearance, with Gothic buildings
and winding streets; associated with many stirring historical events; till 1806 the seat of
the imperial diet; does an active trade in salt and corn, and manufactures porcelain, brass,
steel, and other wares.

RATTAZZI, URBANO, Italian statesman, born at Alessandria; was leader of the extreme party in
the Sardinian Chamber in 1849, and was several times minister, but was unstable in his politics
(1808-1873).

RAUCH, CHRISTIAN, eminent Prussian sculptor, born in Waldeck; patronised by royalty; studied
at Rome under Thorwaldsen and Canova; resided chiefly in Berlin; executed statues of Blücher,
Dürer, Goethe, Schiller, and others, as well as busts; his masterpiece is a colossal monument
in Berlin of Frederick the Great (1777-1857).

RAUHES HAUS ("Rough House"), a remarkable institution for the reclamation and training of neglected
children, founded (1831), and for many years managed by Johann Heinrich Wichern at Hoon, near
Hamburg; it is affiliated to the German Home Mission.

RAUMER, FRIEDRICH LUDWIG GEORG VON, German historian; was professor of History at Berlin; wrote
the "History of the Hohenstaufen and their Times," and a "History of Europe from the End of
the 15th Century" (1781-1873).

RAVAILLAC, FRANÇOIS, the assassin of Henry IV., born at Angoulême; a Roman Catholic fanatic,
who regarded the king as the arch-enemy of the Church, and stabbed him to the heart as he sat
in his carriage; was instantly seized, subjected to torture, and had his body torn by horses
limb from limb (1578-1640).

RAVANA, in the Hindu mythology the king of the demons, who carried off Sita, the wife of Râma,
to Ceylon, which, with the help of the monkey-god Hanuman, and a host of quadrumana, Râma invaded
and conquered, slaying his wife's ravisher, and bringing her off safe, a story which forms
the subject of the Hindu epic, "Râmâyana."

RAVENNA (12), a venerable walled city of Italy; once a seaport, now 5 m. inland from the Adriatic,
and 43 m. E. of Bologna; was capital of the Western Empire for some 350 years; a republic in
the Middle Ages, and a papal possession till 1860; especially rich in monuments and buildings
of early Christian art; has also picture gallery, museum, library, leaning tower, etc.; manufactures
silk, linen, paper, etc.

RAVENNA, EXARCH OF, the viceroy of the Byzantine Empire in Italy while the latter was a dependency
of the former, and who resided at Ravenna.

RAVENSCROFT, THOMAS, musical composer, born in London; was a chorister in St. Paul's Cathedral;
composed many part-songs, etc., but is chiefly remembered for his "Book of Psalmes," which
he edited and partly composed; some of the oldest and best known Psalms (e. g. Bangor, St David's)
are by him (1592-1640).

RAVENSWOOD, a Scottish Jacobite, the hero of Scott's "Bride of Lammermoor."

RAVIGNAN, GUSTAVE DELACROIX DE, a noted Jesuit preacher, born at Bayonne; won wide celebrity
by his powerful preaching in Notre Dame, Paris; wrote books in defence of his order (1795-1858).

RAWAL PINDI (74), a trading and military town in the Punjab, 160 m. NW. of Lahore; has an arsenal,
fort, etc., and is an important centre for the Afghanistan and Cashmere trades.

RAWLINSON, GEORGE, Orientalist, brother of following, Canon of Canterbury; has written extensively
on Eastern and Biblical subjects: b. 1815.

RAWLINSON, SIR HENRY, Assyriologist, born in Oxfordshire; entered the Indian Army in 1827;
held several diplomatic posts, particularly in Persia; gave himself to the study of cuneiform
inscriptions, and became an authority in the rendering of them and matters relative (1810-1895).

RAY, JOHN, English naturalist, born in Essex; studied at Cambridge; travelled extensively collecting
specimens in the departments of both botany and zoology, and classifying them, and wrote works
on both as well as on theology (1628-1705).

RAYLEIGH, LORD, physicist, was senior wrangler at Cambridge; is professor of Natural Philosophy
in the Royal Institution; author of "The Theory of Sound"; discovered, along with Professor
Ramsay, "argon" in the atmosphere; b. 1842.

RAYMOND, name of a succession of Counts of Toulouse, in France, seven in number, of which the
fourth count, from 1088 to 1105, was a leader in the first crusade, and the sixth, who became
Count in 1194, was stripped of his estate by Simon de Montfort.

RAYNAL, THE ABBÉ, French philosopher; wrote "Histoire des Indes" and edited "Philosophic History,"
distinguished for its "lubricity, unveracity, loose, loud eleutheromaniac rant," saw it burnt
by the common hangman, and his wish fulfilled as a "martyr" to liberty (1713-1796).

RAYNOUARD, FRANÇOIS, French littérateur and philologist, born in Provence; was of the Girondist
party at the time of the Revolution, and imprisoned; wrote poems and tragedies, but eventually
gave himself up to the study of the language and literature of Provence (1761-1836).

RÉ, ISLE OF (16), small island, 18 m. by 3, off the French coast, opposite La Rochelle; salt
manufacturing chief industry; also oysters and wine are exported. Chief town, St. Martin (2).

READE, CHARLES, English novelist, born at Ipsden, in Oxfordshire; studied at Oxford; became
a Fellow of Magdalen College, and was called to the bar in 1842; began his literary life by
play-writing; studied the art of fiction for 15 years, and first made his mark as novelist
in 1852, when he was nearly 40, by the publication of "Peg Woffington," which was followed
in 1856 by "It is Never too Late to Mend," and in 1861 by "The Cloister and the Hearth," the
last his best and the most popular; several of his later novels are written with a purpose,
such as "Hard Cash" and "Foul Play"; his most popular plays are "Masks and Faces" and "Drink"
(1814-1884).

READING (61), capital of Berkshire, on the Kennet, 36 m. N. of London; a town of considerable
historic interest; was ravaged by the Danes; has imposing ruins of a 12th-century Benedictine
abbey, &c.; was besieged and taken by Essex in the Civil War (1643); birthplace of Archbishop
Laud; has an important agricultural produce-market, and its manufactures include iron-ware,
paper, sauce, and biscuits.

READING (79), capital of Berks Co., Pennsylvania, on the Schuylkill River, 58 m. NW. of Philadelphia;
has flourishing iron and steel works; population includes a large German settlement.

REAL, an old Spanish silver coin still in use in Spain, Mexico, and some other of the old Spanish
colonies, also is a money of account in Portugal; equals one-fourth of the peseta, and varies
in value from 2½ d. to 5d. with the rise and fall of exchange.

REAL, a legal term in English law applied to property of a permanent or immovable kind, e.
g. land, to distinguish it from personal or movable property.

REAL PRESENCE, the assumed presence, really and substantially, in the bread and wine of the
Eucharist of the body and blood, the soul and divinity, of Christ, a doctrine of the Romish
and certain other Churches.

REALISM, as opposed to Nominalism, is the belief that general terms denote real things and
are not mere names or answerable to the mere conception of them, and as opposed to idealism,
is in philosophy the belief that we have an immediate cognition of things external to us, and
that they are as they seem. In art and literature it is the tendency to conceive and represent
things as they are, however unsightly and immoral they may be, without any respect to the beautiful,
the true, or the good. In Ruskin's teaching mere realism is not art; according to him art is
concerned with the rendering and portrayal of ideals.

REALM, ESTATES OF THE, the Sovereign, the House of Lords, and the House of Commons in Great
Britain.

REAL-SCHULE, a German school in which languages, sciences, and arts are taught to qualify for
apprenticeship in some special business or craft.

REASON, in philosophy is more than mere understanding or reasoning power; it is the constitutive
and regulative soul of the universe assumed to live and breathe in the inner life or soul of
man, as that develops itself in the creations of human genius working in accord with and revealing
the deep purpose of the Maker.

REASON, in German Vernunft, defined by Dr. Stirling "the faculty that unites and brings together,
as against the understanding," in German Verstand, "the faculty that separates, and only in
separation knows," and that is synthetic of the whole, whereof the latter is merely analytic
of the parts, sundered from the whole, and without idea of the whole, the former being the
faculty which construes the diversity of the universe into a unity or the one, whereas the
latter dissolves the unity into diversity or the many.

REASON, GODDESS OF, a Mrs. Momoro, wife of a bookseller in Paris, who, on the 10th November
1793, in the church of Notre Dame, represented what was called Reason, but was only scientific
analysis, which the revolutionaries of France proposed, through her representing such, to install
as an object of worship to the dethronement of the Church, l'infâme.

RÉAUMUR, French scientist, born in La Rochelle; made valuable researches and discoveries in
the industrial arts as well as in natural history; is best known as the inventor of the thermometer
that bears his name, which is graduated into 80 degrees from the temperature of melting ice
to that of boiling water (1683-1757).

REBECCA THE JEWESS, a high-souled Hebrew maiden, who is the heroine in Sir Walter Scott's "Ivanhoe."

REBECCAITES, a band of Welsh rioters who in 1843, dressed as females, went about at nights
and destroyed the toll-gates, which were outrageously numerous; they took their name from Gen.
xxiv. 60.

REBELLION, name of two risings of Jacobites in Scotland to restore the exiled Stuart dynasty
to the throne, one in behalf of the Pretender in 1715, headed by the Earl of Mar, and defeated
at Sheriffmuir, and the other in behalf of the Young Chevalier, and defeated at Culloden in
April 1746.

RÉCAMIR, MADAME, Frenchwoman, born at Lyons; became at 15 the wife of a rich banker In Paris
thrice her own age; was celebrated for her wit her beauty, and her salon; was a friend of Madame
de Staël and Châteaubriand, whom she soothed in his declining years, and a good woman (1777-1849).

RECANATI (6), a pretty Italian town, 15 m. S. of the Adriatic port Ancona, the birthplace of
Leopardi; has a Gothic cathedral.

RECENSION, the name given to the critical revision of the text of an author, or the revised
text itself.

RECHABITES, a tribe of Arab origin and Bedouin habits who attached themselves to the Israelites
in the wilderness and embraced the Jewish faith, but retained their nomadic ways; they abstained
from all strong drink, according to a vow they had made to their chief, which they could not
be tempted to break, an example which Jeremiah in vain pleaded with the Jews to follow in connection
with their vow to the Lord (See Jer. xxxv.).

RECIDIVISTS, a name applied to the class of habitual delinquents or criminals of France.

RECIPROCITY, a term used in economics to describe commercial treaties entered into by two countries,
by which it is agreed that, while a strictly protective tariff is maintained as regards other
countries, certain articles shall be allowed to pass between the two contracting countries
free of or with only light duties; this is the cardinal principle of Fair Trade, and is so
far opposed to Free Trade.

RECLUS, ELISÉE, a celebrated French geographer; from his extreme democratic opinions left France
In 1851, lived much in exile, and spent much time in travel; wrote "Géographie Universelle,"
in 14 vols., his greatest work; b. 1830.

RECORDE, ROBERT, mathematician, born in Pembroke; a physician by profession, and physician
to Edward VI. and Queen Mary; his works on arithmetic, algebra, &c., were written in the form
of question and answer; died in the debtors' prison (1500-1558).

RECORDER, an English law official, the chief Judicial officer of a city or borough; discharges
the functions of judge at the Quarter-Sessions of his district; must be a barrister of at least
five years' standing; is appointed by the Crown, but paid by the local authority; is debarred
from sitting on the licensing bench, but is not withheld from practising at the bar; the sheriff
in Scotland is a similar official.

RECTOR, a clergyman of the Church of England, who has a right to the great and small tithes
of the living; where the tithes are impropriate he is called a vicar.

RECUSANTS, a name given to persons who refused to attend the services of the Established Church,
on whom legal penalties were first imposed in Elizabeth's reign, that bore heavily upon Catholics
and Dissenters; the Toleration Act of William III. relieved the latter, but the Catholics were
not entirely emancipated till 1829.

RED CROSS KNIGHT, St. George, the patron saint of England, and the type and the symbol of justice
and purity at feud with injustice and impurity.

RED CROSS SOCIETY, an internationally-recognised society of volunteers to attend to the sick
and wounded in time of war, so called from the members of it wearing the badge of St. George.

RED REPUBLICANS, a party in France who, at the time of the Revolution of 1848, aimed at a reorganisation
of the State on a general partition of Property.

RED RIVER, an important western tributary of the Mississippi; flows E. and SE. through Texas,
Arkansas, and Louisiana; has a course of 1600 m. till it joins the Mississippi; is navigable
for 350 m.

RED RIVER OF THE NORTH, flows out of Elbow Lake, Minnesota; forms the boundary between North
Dakota and Minnesota, and flowing through Manitoba, falls into Lake Winnipeg after a course
of 665 m.; is a navigable river.

RED SEA, an arm of the Arabian Sea, and stretching in a NW. direction between the desolate
sandy shores of Turkey in Asia and Africa; is connected with the Gulf of Aden in the SE. by
the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb, and in the NW. divides into the Gulfs of Suez and Akaba, between
which lies the Sinai Peninsula; the SUEZ CANAL (q. v.) joins it to the Mediterranean; is 1200
m. long, and averages 180 in breadth; has a mean depth of 375 fathoms (greatest 1200); receives
no rivers, and owing to the great evaporation its water is very saline; long coral reefs skirt
its shores, and of many islands Jebel Zugur, in the Farisan Archipelago, and Dahlak are the
largest; the dangerous Dædalus Reef is marked by a lighthouse; as a seaway between Europe and
the East its importance was greatly diminished by the discovery of the Cape route, but since
the opening of the Suez Canal it has much more than regained its old position; owes its name
probably to the deep red tint of the water often seen among the reefs, due to the presence
of microscopic organisms.

REDAN, a rampart shaped like the letter V, with its apex toward the enemy.

REDDITCH (11), a flourishing town of Worcester, on the Warwick border, 13 m. SW. of Birmingham,
busy with the manufacture of needles, pins, fish-hooks, &c.

REDEMPTIONISTS, better known as TRINITARIANS (q. v.), a name bestowed on an order of monks
consecrated to the work of redeeming Christian captives from slavery.

REDESDALE, in Northumberland, the valley of the river Reed, which rises in the Cheviots and
flows SE. through pastoral and in part dreary moorland till it joins the North Tyne; at the
S. end is the field of OTTERBURN (q. v.).

REDESWIRE, RAID OF THE, a famous Border fight took place in July 1575 at the Cheviot pass which
enters Redesdale; through the timely arrival of the men of Jedburgh the Scots proved victorious;
is the subject of a Border ballad.

REDGAUNTLET, an enthusiastic Jacobite character in Sir Walter Scott's novel of the name, distinguished
by a "horse-shoe vein on his brow, which would swell up black when he was in anger."

REDGRAVE, RICHARD, painter, born at Pimlico, in London; studied at the Royal Academy, won his
first success in "Gulliver on the Farmer's Table," became noted for his genre and landscape
paintings, held Government appointments, and published among other works "Reminiscences" and
"A Century of English Painters" (1804-1888).

REDING, ALOYS VON, a Swiss patriot, born in Schwyz; was the bold defender of Swiss independence
against the French, in which he was in the end defeated (1755-1818).

REDOUBT KALI, a Russian fort on the E. coast of the Black Sea, 10 m. N. of Poti, the chief
place for shipping Circassian girls to Turkey; captured by the British in 1854.

REDRUTH (10), a town of Cornwall, on a hilly site nearly 10 m. SW. of Truro, in the midst of
a tin and copper mining district.

RED-TAPE, name given to official formality, from the red-tape employed in tying official documents,
whence "red-tapism."

REES, ABRAHAM, compiler of "Rees' Cyclopedia" (45 vols.), born in Montgomeryshire; became a
tutor at Hoxton Academy, and subsequently ministered in the Unitarian Chapel at Old Jewry for
some 40 years (1743-1825).

REEVE, name given to magistrates of various classes in early English times, the most important
of whom was the SHIRE-REEVE or sheriff, who represented the king in his shire; others were
BOROUGH-REEVES, PORT-REEVES, &c.

REEVE, CLARA, an English novelist, born, the daughter of a rector, at Ipswich; the best known
of her novels is "The Champion of Virtue," afterwards called "The Old English Baron," a work
of the school of Mrs. Radcliffe and of Walpole (1725-1803).

REEVES, JOHN SIMS, distinguished singer, born at Shooter's Hill, Kent; made his first appearance
at the age of 18 as a baritone at Newcastle, and then as a tenor, and the foremost in England
at the time; performed first in opera and then as a ballad singer at concerts, and took his
farewell of the public on May 11, 1891, though he has frequently appeared since; b. 1822.

REFERENDUM, a practice which prevails in Switzerland of referring every new legislative measure
to the electorate in the several electoral bodies for their approval before it can become law.

REFORM, the name given in England to successive attempts and measures towards the due extension
of the franchise in the election of the members of the House of Commons.

REFORMATION, the great event in the history of Europe in the 16th century, characterised as
a revolt of light against darkness, on the acceptance or the rejection of which has since depended
the destiny for good or evil of the several States composing it, the challenge to each of them
being the crucial one, whether they deserved and were fated to continue or perish, and the
crucial character of which is visible to-day in the actual conditions of the nations as they
said "nay" to it or "yea," the challenge to each at bottom being, is there any truth in you
or is there none? Austria, according to Carlyle, henceforth "preferring steady darkness to
uncertain new light"; Spain, "people stumbling in steep places in the darkness of midnight";
Italy, "shrugging its shoulders and preferring going into Dilettantism and the Fine Arts";
and France, "with accounts run up on compound interest," had to answer the "writ of summons"
with an all too indiscriminate "Protestantism" of its own.

REFORMATION, MORNING STAR OF THE, the title given to JOHN WYCLIFFE (q. v.).

REFORMATORIES, schools for the education and reformation of convicted juvenile criminals (under
16). Under an order of court offenders may be placed in one of these institutions for from
2 to 5 years after serving a short period of imprisonment. They are supported by the State,
the local authorities, and by private subscriptions and sums exacted from parents and guardians.
Rules and regulations are supervised by the State. The first one was established in 1838. There
are now 62 in Great Britain and Ireland; but the numbers admitted are diminishing at a remarkable
rate.

REFORMED CHURCH, the Churches in Switzerland, Holland, Scotland, and elsewhere under Calvin
or Zwingle, or both, separated from the Lutheran on matter of both doctrine and policy, and
especially in regard to the doctrine of the presence of Christ in the Eucharist.

REFRACTION. Light travels in straight lines; but when a ray travelling through one medium passes
obliquely into another of either greater or less density it is bent at the point of incidence.
This bending or breaking is called refraction. The apparent bend in a stick set sloping in
a sheet of water is due to this phenomenon, as are also many mirages and other optical illusions.

REGALIA, the symbols of royalty, and more particularly those used at a coronation. The English
regalia include the crown, the sceptre with the cross, the verge or rod with the dove, St.
Edward's staff (in reality dating from Charles II.'s coronation), the orbs of king and queen,
the sword of mercy called Curtana, the two swords of spiritual and temporal justice, the ring
of alliance with the nation, bracelets, spurs, vestments, &c. These are to be seen in the Tower
of London, and are valued at £3,000,000. The regalia of Scotland consist of the crown, the
sceptre, and sword of State, and are on exhibition in the Crown-room in Edinburgh Castle.

REGENERATION, THE, "new or second birth" required of Christ before any one can become a member
of His kingdom, and which, when achieved, is a resolute and irreversible No to the spirit of
the world, and a no less resolute and irreversible Yea to the spirit of Christ, the No being
as essential to it as the Yea. For as in the philosophy of Hegel, so in the religion of Christ,
the negative principle is the creative or the determinative principle. Christianity begins
in No, subsists in No, and survives in No to the spirit of the world; this it at first peremptorily
spurns, and then disregards as of no account, what things were gain in it becoming loss. A
stern requirement, but, as Carlyle says, and knew, one is not born the second time any more
than the first without sore birth-pangs. See HIS "EVERLASTING NO" IN "SARTOR," LAST PARAGRAPH.

REGENERATION, BAPTISMAL, the doctrine that the power of spiritual life, forfeited by the Fall,
is restored to the soul in the sacrament of baptism duly administered.

REGENSBURG. See RATISBON.

REGGIO (24), an Italian seaport; capital of a province of the same name; occupies a charming
site on the Strait of Messina; built on the ruins of ancient Rhegium; is the seat of an archbishop;
manufactures silks, gloves, hose, &c.

REGICIDES, murderers of a king, but specially applied to the 67 members of the court who tried
and condemned Charles I. of England, amongst whom were Cromwell, Bradshaw, Ireton, and others,
of whom 10 living at the time of the Restoration were executed, and 25 others imprisoned for life.

REGILLUS, LAKE, celebrated in ancient Roman history as the scene of a great Roman victory over
the Latins in 496 B.C.; site probably near the modern town of Frascati.

REGINA, ST., a virgin martyr of the 3rd century, usually depicted as undergoing the torments
of martyrdom, or receiving spiritual consolation in prison by a beautiful vision of a dove
on a luminous cross.

REGIOMONTANUS, name adopted by Johann Müller, a celebrated German astronomer and mathematician,
born at Königsberg, in Franconia; appointed professor of Astronomy in Vienna (1461); sojourned
in Italy; settled in Nüremberg, where much of his best work was done; assisted Pope Sixtus
IV. in reforming the Calendar; was made Bishop of Ratisbon; died at Rome; was regarded as the
most learned astronomer of the time in Europe, and his works were of great value to Columbus
and other early navigators (1436-1476).

REGISTRAR-GENERAL, an official appointed to superintend registration, specially of births,
deaths, and marriages.

REGIUM DONUM, an annual grant formerly voted by Parliament to augment the stipends of the Presbyterian
clergy in Ireland, discontinued from 1869.

REGNARD, JEAN FRANÇOIS, comic dramatist, born in Paris; inherited a fortune, which he increased
by gambling; took to travelling, and was at 22 captured by an Algerine pirate, and when ransomed
continued to travel; on his return to Paris wrote comedies, twenty-three in number, the best
of them being "Le Joueur" and "Le Légataire," following closely in the steps of Molière; he
was admired by Boileau (1656-1710).

REGNAULT, HENRI, French painter, born in Paris; son of following; a genius of great power and
promise, of which several remarkable works by him are proof; volunteered in the Franco-German
War, and fell at Buzenval (1843-1871).

REGNAULT, HENRI VICTOR, a noted French physicist, born at Aix-la-Chapelle; from being a Paris
shopman he rose to a professorship in Lyons; important discoveries in organic chemistry won
him election to the Academy of Sciences in 1840; lectured in the "Collège de France and the
École Polytechnique;" became director of the imperial porcelain manufactory of Sèvres; did
notable work in physics and chemistry, and was awarded medals by the Royal Society of London
(1810-1878).

REGNIER, MATHURIN, French poet, born at Chartres; led when young a life of dissipation; ranks
high as a poet, but is most distinguished in satire, which is instinct with verve and vigour
(1572-1613).

REGULARS, in the Romish Church a member of any religious order who has taken the vows of poverty,
chastity, and obedience.

REGULUS, a Roman of the Romans; was twice over Consul, in 267 and 256 B.C.; defeated the Carthaginians,
both by sea and land, but was at last taken prisoner; being sent, after five years' captivity,
on parole to Rome with proposals of peace, dissuaded the Senate from accepting the terms, and
despite the entreaties of his wife and children and friends returned to Carthage according
to his promise, where he was subjected to the most excruciating tortures.

REGULUS, ST., or ST. RULE, a monk of the East who, in the 4th century, it is said, came to
Scotland with the bones of St. Andrew, and deposited them at St. Andrews.

REHAN, ADA, actress, born in Limerick; made her début at 16 in Albany, New York; came to London
in 1884, and again in 1893; plays Rosalind in "As You Like It," Lady Teazle in "School for
Scandal," and Maid Marian in the "Foresters," and numerous other parts; b. 1859.

REHOBOAM, the king of the Jews on whose accession at the death of Solomon, in 976 B.C., the
ten tribes of Israel seceded from the kingdom of Judah.

REICH, THE, the old German Empire.

REICHENBACH, KARL, BARON VON, expert in the industrial arts, particularly in chemical manufacture;
he was a zealous student of animal magnetism, and the discoverer of Od (1788-1869).

REICHENBERG (31), a town in North Bohemia, on the Neisse, 86 m. NE. of Prague; chief seat of
the Bohemian cloth manufacture.

REICHENHALL (4), a popular German health resort, in South-East Bavaria, 10 m. SW. of Salzburg;
is charmingly situated amidst Alpine scenery, and has a number of mineral springs; is the centre
of the great Bavarian salt-works.

REICHSRATH, the Parliament of the Austrian Empire.

REICHSTADT, DUKE OF, the son and successor of Napoleon as Napoleon II.; died at Vienna in 1832.

REICHSTAG, the German Imperial Legislature, representative of the German nation, and which
consists of 397 members, elected by universal suffrage and ballot for a term of five years.

REID, SIR GEORGE, a distinguished portrait-painter, born in Aberdeen; his portraits are true
to the life, and are not surpassed by those of any other living artist; b. 1841.

REID, RIGHT HON. G. H., Premier of Australia, born at Johnstone, Renfrewshire; emigrated with
his parents in 1852; adopted law as his profession; became Minister of Education in 1883; became
Premier of N.S.W. in 1894; is a great Free Trader, and visited England for the Jubilee in 1897;
Prime Minister of the Australian Commonwealth, 1904; b. 1845.

REID, CAPTAIN MAYNE, novelist, born in Co. Down; led a life of adventure in America, and served
in the Mexican War, but settled afterwards in England to literary work, and wrote a succession
of tales of adventure (1819-1883).

REID, THOMAS, Scottish philosopher, and chief of the Scottish school, born in Kincardineshire,
and bred for the Scotch Church, in which he held office as a clergyman for a time; was roused
to philosophical speculation by the appearance in 1730 of David Hume's "Treatise on Human Nature,"
and became professor of Philosophy in Aberdeen in 1752, and in Glasgow in 1763, where the year
after he published his "Inquiry into the Human Mind," which was followed in course of time
by his "Philosophy of the Intellectual and Active Powers"; his philosophy was a protest against
the scepticism of Hume, founded on the idealism of Berkeley, by appeal to the "common-sense"
of mankind, which admits of nothing intermediate between the perceptions of the mind and the
reality of things (1710-1796).

REID, SIR WEMYSS, journalist and man of letters, born in Newcastle-on-Tyne; editor of the Leeds
Mercury (1870-86), and of the Speaker since 1890; has written novels and biographies; is President
of the Institute of Journalists, and was knighted in 1894; b. 1842.

REID, SIR WILLIAM, soldier and scientist; served in the Royal Engineers with distinction under
Wellington; became Governor successively of Bermudas, Barbadoes, and Malta, and was the author
of a scientific work on "The Law of Storms" (1791-1858).

REIGATE (23), a flourishing market-town in Surrey, 21 m. S. of London; is a busy railway centre;
has interesting historic ruins; an old church, among others containing the grave of Lord Howard
of Effingham.

REIGN OF A HUNDRED DAYS, the period during which Napoleon reigned in Paris from his return
from Elba in the beginning of March till he left on the 12th June 1815 to meet the Allies in
the Netherlands.

REIGN OF TERROR, the name given to the bloody consummation of the fiery French Revolution,
including a period which lasted 420 days, from the fall of the Girondists on the 31st May 1793
to the overthrow of Robespierre and his accomplices on 27th July 1794, the actors in which
at length, seeing nothing but "Terror" ahead, had in their despair said to themselves, "Be
it so. Que la Terreur soit à l'ordre du jour (having sown the wind, come let us reap the whirlwind).
One of the frightfulest things ever born of Time. So many as four thousand guillotined, fusilladed,
noyaded, done to dire death, of whom nine hundred were women."

REIMARUS, a philosopher of the AUFKLÄRUNG (q. v.), born at Hamburg; author of the "Wolfenbüttel
Fragments," published by Lessing in 1777, and written to disprove the arguments for the historical
truth of the Bible, and in the interest of pure deism and natural religion (1694-1768).

REIS EFFENDI, one of the chief Ministers of State in Turkey, who is Lord Chancellor, and holds
the bureau of foreign affairs.

REITERS, the cavalry of the German Empire in the 14th and 15th centuries.

RELATIVITY OF KNOWLEDGE, the doctrine that all knowledge is of things as they appear to us
and not of things as they are in themselves, is subjective and not objective, is phenomenal
and not noumenal.

RELIEF, prominence of a sculpture from a plain surface; works in relief are of three kinds:
alto-relievo, high relief; mezzo-relievo, medium relief; basso-relievo, low relief.

RELIGIO MEDICI, a celebrated work of Sir Thomas Browne's, characterised as a "confession of
intelligent, orthodox, and logical supernaturalism couched in some of the most exquisite English
ever written."

RELIGION, a sense, affecting the whole character and life, of dependence on, reverence for,
and responsibility to a Higher Power; or a mode of thinking, feeling, and acting which respects,
trusts in, and strives after God, and determines a man's duty and destiny in this universe,
or "the manner in which a man feels himself to be spiritually related to the unseen world."

RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY, society founded in 1799 for the circulation of religious works in
home and foreign parts, has published in 220 languages, and is conducted by an annually elected
body, consisting of four ministers and eight laymen in London.

RELIQUARY, name given to a portable shrine or case for relics of saints or martyrs; they assumed
many forms, and were often rich in material and of exquisite design.

REMBRANDT or VAN REJN, a celebrated Dutch historical and portrait painter as well as etcher,
born at Leyden, where he began to practise as an etcher; removed in 1630 to Amsterdam, where
he spent the rest of his life and acquired a large fortune, but lost it in 1656 after the death
of his first wife, and sank into poverty and obscurity; he was a master of all that pertains
to colouring and the distribution of light and shade (1608-1669).

REMIGIUS, ST., bishop and confessor of the 6th century, represented as carrying or receiving
a vessel of holy oil, or as anointing Clovis, who kneels before him.

REMINGTON, PHILO, inventor of the Remington breech-loading rifle, born at Litchfield, in New
York State; 25 years manager of the mechanical department in his father's small-arms factory;
Remington type-writer also the outcome of his inventive skill; retired in 1886; b. 1816.

REMONSTRANCE, THE, the name given to a list of abuses of royal power laid to the charge of
Charles I. and drawn up by the House of Commons in 1641, and which with the petition that accompanied
it contributed to bring matters to a crisis.

REMONSTRANTS, a name given to the Dutch Arminians who presented to the States-General of Holland
a protest against the Calvinist doctrine propounded by the Synod of Dort in 1610.

REMUS, the twin-brother of Romulus, and who was slain by him because he showed his scorn of
the city his brother was founding by leaping over the wall.

RÉMUSAT, ABEL, Orientalist, born in Paris; studied and qualified in medicine, but early devoted
himself to the study of Chinese literature and in 1814 became professor of Chinese in the College
of France; wrote on the language, the topography, and history of China, and founded the Asiastic
Society of Paris (1788-1832).

RÉMUSAT, CHARLES, COMTE DE, French politician and man of letters, born in Paris; was a Liberal
in politics; drew up a protest against the ordinances of Polignac, which precipitated the revolution
of July; was Minister of the Interior under Thiers, was exiled after the coup d'état, and gave
himself mainly to philosophical studies thereafter (1797-1875).

RENAISSANCE, the name given to the revolution in literature and art in Europe during the 15th
and 16th centuries, caused by the revival of the study of ancient models in the literature
and art of Greece and Rome, especially the former, and to the awakening in the cultured classes
of the free and broad humanity that inspired them, an epoch which marks the transition from
the rigid formality of mediæval to the enlightened freedom of modern times.

RENAIX (17), a busy manufacturing town in East Flanders, Belgium, 22 m. SW. of Ghent; has large
cotton and linen factories, breweries, and distilleries.

RENAN, ERNEST, Orientalist and Biblical scholar, born in Brittany, son of a sailor, who, dying,
left him to the care of his mother and sister, to both of whom he was warmly attached; destined
for the Church, he entered the seminary of St. Sulpice, where his studies threw him out of
the relation with the Church and obliged him to abandon all thoughts of the clerical profession;
accomplished in Hebrew, he was appointed professor of that language in the College of France
in 1861, though not installed till 1870, and made a member of the French Academy in 1878; having
distinguished himself by his studies in the Semitic languages, and in a succession of essays
on various subjects of high literary merit, he in 1863 achieved a European reputation by the
publication of his "Vie de Jésus," the first of a series bearing upon the origin of Christianity
and the agencies that contributed to its rise and development; he wrote other works bearing
more immediately on modern life and its destiny, but it is in connection with his views of
Christ and Christianity that his name will be remembered; he entertained at last an overweening
faith in science and scientific experts, and looked to the latter as the elect of the earth
for the redemption of humanity (1823-1893).

RENDSBURG (12), a fortified town in Schleswig-Holstein, on the North Sea and Baltic Canal,
19 m. W. of Kiel; manufactures cotton, chemicals, brandy &c.

RENÉ I., titular king of Naples, born at Angers, son of Louis II., Duke of Anjou and Count
of Provence; on the death of his father-in-law, Duke of Lorraine, he in 1431 claimed the dukedom;
was defeated and imprisoned; bought his liberty and the dukedom in 1437, in which year he also
made an ineffectual attempt to make good his claim to the throne of Naples and Sicily; settled
down in Provence and devoted himself to literature and art and to developing the country (1409-1480).

RENFREW (7), a royal burgh and county-town of Renfrewshire, situated on the Clyde, 6 m. below
Glasgow; dates back to the 12th century as a burgh; industries include thread, cotton cloths,
shawl factories, and shipbuilding.

RENFREWSHIRE (291), a south-western county of Scotland; faces the Firth of Clyde on the W.,
between Ayr on the S. and SW., and the river Clyde on the N.; bordered on the E. by Lanark;
hilly on the W. and S., flat on the E.; is watered by the Gryfe, the Black Cart, and the White
Cart; dairy-farming is carried on in extensive scale, stimulated by the proximity of Glasgow;
nearly two-thirds of the county is under cultivation; coal and iron are mined, and in various
parts the manufacture of thread, cotton, chemicals, shipbuilding, &c., is actively engaged in.

RENNELL, JAMES, geographer, born near Chudleigh, Devonshire; passed from the navy to the military
service of the East India Company; became surveyor-general of Bengal; retired in 1782; author
of many works on the topography of India, hydrography, &c.; the "Geographical System of Herodotus
Examined and Explained" is his most noted work (1742-1830).

RENNES (65), a prosperous town in Brittany, capital of the department of Ille-et-Vilaine, situated
at the junction of the Ille and the Vilaine; consists of a high and low town, separated by
the river Vilaine, mostly rebuilt since the disastrous fire in 1720; has handsome buildings,
a cathedral, &c.; is the seat of an archbishop, a military centre, and manufactures sail-cloth,
linen, shoes, hats, &c.; where the court-martial was held which condemned Captain Dreyfus on
a second trial in 1899.

RENNIE, JOHN, civil engineer, born in East Linton, East Lothian; employed by the firm of Messrs.
Boulton & Watt at Soho, Birmingham, and entrusted by them to direct in the construction of
the Albion Mills, London, he became at once famous for his engineering ability, and was in
general request for other works, such as the construction of docks, canals, and bridges, distinguishing
himself most in connection with the latter, of which Waterloo, Southwark, and London over the
Thames, are perhaps the finest (1761-1821).

RENTE, name given to the French funds, or income derivable from them.

RENTON (5), a town in Dumbartonshire, on the Leven, 2 m. N. of Dumbarton; engaged in calico-printing,
dyeing, &c.; has a monument in memory of Tobias Smollett, who was born in the neighbourhood.

RENWICK, JAMES, Scottish martyr, born at Moniaive, Dumfriesshire; educated at Edinburgh University,
but was refused his degree for declining to take the oath of allegiance; completed his studies
in Holland, and in 1683 was ordained at Gröningen; came to Scotland; was outlawed in 1684 for
his "Apologetic Declaration"; refused to recognise James II. as king; was captured after many
escapes, and executed at Edinburgh, the last of the martyrs of the Covenant (1662-1688).

REPEALER, an advocate of the repeal of the Union of Great Britain and Ireland.

REPLICA, is properly the copy of an original picture done by the hand of the same master.

REPOUSSÉ, a name applied to a style of raised ornamentation in metal obtained by beating out
from behind a convex design, which is then chased in front; was known to the Greeks, and carried
to a high pitch of perfection by Benvenuto Cellini in the 16th century; has been successfully
revived, especially in France, in this century.

REPTON (2), a village of Derbyshire, 6½ m. SW. of Derby, dates back to the 7th century, and
is associated with the establishment of Christianity in England; has a fine Public school,
founded in 1556.

REPUBLIC, the name given to a State in which the sovereign power is vested in one or more elected
by the community, and held answerable to it though in point of fact, both in Rome and the Republic
of Venice the community was not free to elect any one outside of a privileged order.

REPUBLICANS, THE, the name given latterly in the United States to the party opposed to the
Democrats (q. v.) and in favour of federalism.

REQUIEM, a mass set to music, sung for the repose of the soul of a dead person.

REREDOS, the name given to the decorated portion of the wall or screen behind and rising above
a church altar; as a rule it is richly ornamented with niches and figures, and stands out from
the east wall of the church, but not unfrequently it is joined to the wall; splendid examples
exist at All Souls' College, Oxford, Durham Cathedral, St. Albans, &c.

RESINA (14), a town of South Italy, looks out upon the sea from the base of Vesuvius, 4 m.
SE. of Naples, built on the site of ancient Herculaneum; manufactures wine and silk.

RESPONSIONS, the first of the three examinations for a degree at Oxford University, or the
Little Go.

RESSAIDAR, in India, a native cavalry officer in command of a Ressalah, or a squadron of native
cavalry.

RESTORATION, THE, the name given in English history to the re-establishment of monarchy and
the return of Charles II. to the throne, 29th May 1660, after the fall of the Commonwealth.

RESTORATIONISTS, name of a sect in America holding the belief that man will finally recover
his original state of purity.

RESURRECTIONIST, one who stealthily exhumed bodies from the grave and sold them for anatomical
purposes.

RETFORD, EAST (11), market-town of Nottinghamshire, on the Idle, 24 m. E. by S. of Sheffield;
has foundries, paper and flour mills, &c.

RETINA, a retiform expansion of the sensatory nerves, which receives the impression that gives
rise to vision, or visual perception.

RETRIBUTIVE JUSTICE, justice which rewards good deeds, and inflicts punishment on offenders.

RETZ, CARDINAL DE, born at Montmirail, of Italian descent, and much given to intrigue, obtained
the coadjutorship of the archbishopric of Paris, plotted against Mazarin, played an important
part in the troubles of the Fronde, and was in 1652 thrown into prison, from which he escaped;
he left "Memoirs" which are valuable as a record of the times, though the readers are puzzled
to construe from them the character of the author (1614-1679).

RETZ, GILLES DE, marshal of France, born in Brittany; distinguished himself under Charles VII.
against the English; was condemned to be burned alive at Nantes in 1440 for his unnatural crimes
and his cruelties.

RETZCH, MORITZ, painter and engraver, born at Dresden, where he became a professor of Painting;
is famous for his etchings illustrative of Goethe's "Faust," of certain of Shakespeare's plays,
as well as of Fouqué's "Tales"; the "Chess-Players" and "Man versus Satan," which is considered
his masterpiece (1779-1857).

REUCHLIN, JOHANN, a learned German humanist, born in the Black Forest, devoted himself to the
study of Greek and Hebrew, and did much to promote the study of both in Germany, and wrote
"Rudiments of the Hebrew Language"; though he did not attach himself to the Reformers, he contributed
by his works and labours to advance the cause of the Reformation; his special enemies were
the Dominicans, but he was backed up against them by all the scholars of Germany (1455-1522).

REUNION (formerly Île de Bourbon) (166), mostly Creoles, a French island in the Indian Ocean,
358 m. E. of Madagascar, 38 m. by 28; a volcanic range intersects the island; the scenery is
fine; streams plentiful, but small; one-third of the land is uncultivated, and grows fruits,
sugar (chief export), coffee, spices, &c. St. Denis (33), on the N. coast, is the capital;
has been a French possession since 1649.

REUSS, name of two German principalities stretching between Bavaria on the S. and Prussia on
the N.; they belong to the elder and younger branches of the Reuss family. The former is called
Reuss-Greiz (63), the latter Reuss-Schleiz-Gera (120); both are hilly, well wooded, and well
watered; farming and textile manufacturing are carried on. Both are represented in the Reichstag;
the executive is in the hands of the hereditary princes, and the legislative powers are vested
in popularly elected assemblies.

REUTER, FRITZ, a German humourist, born in Mecklenburg-Schwerin; when a student at Jena took
part in a movement among the students in behalf of German unity; was arrested and condemned,
after commutation of sentence of death, to thirty years' imprisonment, but was released, after
seven of them, in broken health; and after eleven more took to writing a succession of humorous
poems in Low German, which placed him in the front rank of the humourists of Germany (1810-1874).

REUTER, BARON PAUL JULIUS, the organiser of the conveyance of news by telegraph, born at Cassel;
commenced with Berlin for centre in 1851; transferred his head-quarters to London, and now
the "system," which is in the hands of a limited liability company, has connections with even
the remotest corner of the globe; b. 1818.

REUTLINGEN (19), a picturesque old town in Würtemberg, on the Echatz, 20 m. S. of Stuttgart;
formerly one of the free imperial cities of the Swabian League; has a splendid Gothic church;
manufactures cloth, cutlery, leather, woollen and cotton yarns, &c.

REVEL or REVAL (52), capital of the government of Esthonia, in Russia, is a flourishing seaport
on the S. side of the Gulf of Finland, 232 m. W. of St. Petersburg; has a castle, fortifications,
cathedral, mediæval antiquities, &c.; chiefly engaged in commerce; exports largely oats and
other cereals, spirits, flax, &c.

REVELATION, name properly applicable to the knowledge of God, or of divine things, imparted
to the mind of man, by the operation of the Divine Spirit in the human soul, and as apprehended
by it.

REVELATION, BOOK OF, or THE APOCALYPSE, the book that winds up the accepted canon of Holy Scripture,
of the fulfilment of the prophecies of which there are three systems of interpretation: the
Præteritist, which regards them all as fulfilled; the Historical, which regards them as all
along fulfilling; and the Futurist, which regards them as still all to be fulfilled. The first
is the one which finds favour among modern critics, and which regards it as a forecast of the
struggle then impending between the Church under the headship of Christ and the civil power
under the emperor of Rome, though this view need not be accepted as excluding the second theory,
which regards it as a forecast of the struggle of the Church with the world till the cup of
the world's iniquity is full and the day of its doom is come. The book appears to have been
written on the occurrence of some fierce persecution at the hands of the civil power, and its
object to confirm and strengthen the Church in her faith and patience by a series of visions,
culminating in one of the Lamb seated on the throne of the universe as a pledge that all His
slain ones would one day share in His glory.

REVELS, MASTER OF THE, also called LORD OF MISRULE, in olden times an official attached to
royal and noble households to superintend the amusements, especially at Christmas time; he
was a permanent officer at the English court from Henry VIII.'s reign till George III.'s, but
during the 18th century the office was a merely nominal one.

REVERBERATORY FURNACE, a furnace with a domed roof, from which the flames of the fire are reflected
upon the vessel placed within.

REVERE, PAUL, American patriot, born in Boston, U.S., bred a goldsmith; conspicuous for his
zeal against the mother-country, and one of the first actors in the revolt (1735-1818).

REVEREND, a title of respect given to the clergy, Very Reverend to deans, Right Reverend to
bishops, and Most Reverend to archbishops.

RÉVILLE, ALBERT, a distinguished French Protestant theologian, born at Dieppe; was from 1851
to 1872 pastor at Rotterdam, in 1880 became professor of the History of Religions in the College
of France, and six years later was made President of the Section des Études Religieuses at
the Sorbonne, Paris; has been a prolific writer on such subjects as "The Native Religions of
Mexico and Peru" (Hibbert Lectures for 1884), "Religions of Non-civilised Peoples," "The Chinese
Religion," &c.; b. 1826.

REVIVAL OF LETTERS, revival in Europe in the 15th century of the study of classical, especially
Greek, literature, chiefly by the arrival in Italy of certain learned Greeks, fugitives from
Constantinople on its capture by the Turks in 1453, and promoted, by the invention of printing,
to the gradual extinction of the dry, barren scholasticism previously in vogue. See RENAISSANCE.

REVIVAL OF RELIGION, a reawakening of the religious consciousness after a period of spiritual
dormancy, ascribed by many to a special outpouring of the Spirit in answer to prayer, and in
connection with evangelical preaching.

REVOLUTION, a sudden change for most part in the constitution of a country in consequence of
internal revolt, particularly when a monarchy is superseded by a republic, as in France in
1789, in 1848, and 1870, that in 1830 being merely from one branch of the Bourbon family to
another, such as that also in England in 1658. The French Revolution of 1798 is the revolution
by pre-eminence, and the years 1848-49 were years of revolutions in Europe.

REVUE DES DEUX MONDES, a celebrated French review, devoted to literature, science, art, politics,
&c., established in 1829, and conducted afterwards by Buloz.

REYBAUD, MARIE ROCH LOUIS, a versatile littérateur and politician, born at Marseilles; travelled
in India, established himself as a Radical journalist in Paris in 1829, and edited important
works of travel, wrote popular novels, published important studies in social science; elected
a member of the Academy of Moral Sciences (1850); was an active politcian, investigated for
government the agricultural colonies in Algeria; author of "Scenes in Modern Life," "Industry
in Europe," &c. (1799-1879).

REYKJAVIK (i. e. reeky town), (3), capital of Iceland, situated in a barren misty region on
the SW. coast, practically a village of some 100 wooden houses; has a brick cathedral, and
is the see of a bishop.

REYNARD THE FOX, an epic of the Middle Ages, in which animals represent men, "full of broad
rustic mirth, inexhaustible in comic devices, a world Saturnalia, where wolves tonsured into
monks and nigh starved by short commons, foxes pilgrimaging to Rome for absolution, cocks pleading
at the judgment-bar, make strange mummery." The principal characters are Isengrim the wolf
and Reynard the fox, the former representing strength incarnated in the baron and the latter
representing cunning incarnated in the Church, and the strife for ascendency between the two
one in which, though frequently hard pressed, the latter gets the advantage in the end.

REYNOLDS, JOHN FULTON, an American general, born at Lancaster, Pennsylvania; graduated at 21
at West Point, entered the army, distinguished himself during the Civil War, especially at
the second battle of Bull Run; was killed at the battle of Gettysburg (1820-1863).

REYNOLDS, SIR JOSHUA, the chief of English portrait-painters, born near Plymouth; went to London
in 1740 to study art, and remained three years; visited Italy and the great centres of art
there, when he lost his hearing, and settled in London in 1752, where he began to paint portraits,
and had as the subjects of his art the most distinguished people, "filled England with the
ghosts of her noble squires and dames"; numbered among his friends all the literary notabilities
of the day; he was the first President of the Royal Academy, and though it was no part of his
duty, delivered a succession of discourses to the students on the principles and practice of
painting, 15 of which have been published, and are still held in high esteem (1723-1792).

RHABDOMANCY, a species of divination by means of a hazel rod to trace the presence of minerals
or metals under ground.

RHADAMANTHUS, in the Greek mythology a son of Zeus and Europa, and a brother of MINOS (q. v.),
was distinguished among men for his strict justice, and was after his death appointed one of
the Judges of the dead in the nether world along with Æacus and Minos.

RHAPSODISTS, a class of minstrels who in early times wandered over the Greek cities reciting
the poems of Homer, and through whom they became widely known, and came to be translated with
such completeness to us.

RHEA, in the Greek mythology a goddess, the daughter of Uranus and Gaia, the wife of Kronos,
and mother of the chief Olympian deities, Zeus, Pluto, Poseidon, Hera, Demeter, and Hestia,
and identified by the Greeks of Asia Minor with the great earth goddess Cybele, and whose worship
as such, like that of all the other earth deities, was accompanied with wild revelry.

RHEA SILVIA, a vestal virgin, the mother of Romulus and Remus, twins, whom she bore to Mars,
the god of war, who had violated her.

RHEIMS (104), an important French city in the department of Marne, on the Vesle, 100 m. NE.
of Paris; as the former ecclesiastical metropolis of France it has historical associations
of peculiar interest; the French monarchs were crowned in the cathedral (a Gothic structure
of unique beauty) from 1179 to 1825; has a beautiful 12th-century Romanesque church, an archiepiscopal
palace, a Roman triumphal arch, a Lycée, statues, &c.; situated in a rich wine district, it
is one of the chief champagne entrepôts, and is also one of the main centres of French textiles,
especially woollen goods; is strongly fortified.

RHEINGAU, a fruitful wine district in the Rhine Valley, stretching along the right bank of
the river in Hesse-Nassau; has a sunny, sheltered situation, and its wines are famed for their
quality.

RHENISH PRUSSIA (4,710), the most westerly and most densely populated of the Prussian provinces,
lies within the valleys of the Rhine and the Lower Moselle, and borders on Belgium and the
Netherlands; is mountainous and forest-clad, except in the fertile plains of the N. and in
the rich river valleys, where vines, cereals, and vegetables are extensively cultivated; large
quantities of coal, iron, zinc, and lead are mined; as an industrial and manufacturing province
it ranks first in Germany. Coblenz (capital), Aix-la-Chapelle, Bonn, and Cologne are among
its chief towns; was formed in 1815 out of several smaller duchies.

RHEOCHORD, a wire to measure the resistance or variability of an electric current.

RHEOMETRY, measurement of the force or the velocity of an electric current.

RHESUS, a monkey held sacred in several parts of India.

RHETORIC, the science or art of persuasive or effective speech, written as well as spoken,
and that both in theory and practice was cultivated to great perfection among the ancient Greeks
and Romans, and to some extent in the Middle Ages and later, but is much less cultivated either
as a science or an art to-day.

RHINE, one of the chief rivers of Europe; of several small Alpine head-streams, the Nearer
and the Farther Rhine are the two principal, issuing from the eastern flanks of Mount St Gothard;
a junction is formed at Reichenau, whence the united stream--the Upper Rhine--flows N. to Lake
Constance, and issuing from the NW. corner curves westward to Basel, forming the boundary between
Switzerland and Germany. From Basel, as the Middle Rhine, it pursues a northerly course to
Mainz, turns sharply to the W. as far as Bingen, and again resumes its northward course. The
Rhine-Highland between Bingen and Bonn is the most romantic and picturesque part of its course.
As the Lower Rhine it flows in a sluggish, winding stream through the Rhenish Lowlands, enters
Holland near Clèves, at Nimeguen bends to the W., and flowing through Holland some 100 m. reaches
the German Ocean, splitting in its lowest part into several streams which form a rich delta,
one-third of Holland. It is 800 m. in length; receives numerous affluents, e. g. Neckar, Main,
Moselle, Lippe; is navigable for ships to Mannheim.

RHINOPLASTIC OPERATION, an operation of repairing destroyed portions of the nose by skin from
adjoining parts.

RHODE ISLAND (346), the smallest but most densely populated of the United States, and one of
the original 13; faces the Atlantic between Connecticut (W.) and Massachusetts (N. and E.);
is split into two portions by Narragansett Bay (30 m. long); hilly in the N., but elsewhere
level; enjoys a mild and equable climate, and is greatly resorted to by invalids from the S.;
the soil is rather poor, and manufactures form the staple industry; coal, iron, and limestone
are found. Providence, Pawtucket, and Newport are the chief towns.

RHODES (10), a Turkish island in the Mediterranean, 12 m. distant from the SW, coast of Asia
Minor, area 49 m. by 21 m.; mountainous and woody; has a fine climate and a fertile soil, which
produces fruit in abundance, also some grain; it is ill developed, and has a retrogressive
population, most of whom are Greeks; sponges, chief export; figures considerably in ancient
classic history; was occupied by the Knights Hospitallers of St. John for more than two centuries,
and was taken from them by the Turks in 1523.

RHODES, CECIL, statesman, born in Hertfordshire, son of a vicar; went to South Africa; became
director of the diamond mines at Kimberley, and amassed a large fortune; entered the Cape Parliament,
and became Prime Minister in 1890; he has been active and successful to extend the British
territories in South Africa, aiming at destroying the race prejudices that prevail in it, and
at establishing among the different colonies a federated union; b. 1853.

RHODESIA, the territory in South Africa occupied and administered by the British South Africa
Company, under the leadership of Mr. Cecil Rhodes, and founded by royal charter in 1889, hence
the name it goes under, is bounded on the E. by Portuguese East Africa, on the N. by German
East Africa and the Congo Free State, on the W. by Angola and German South-West Africa, and
on the S. by Bechuanaland and the Transvaal; is traversed by the Zambesi, which divides it
into Northern and Southern Rhodesia; the Northern has been little prospected, though the land
is being cultivated, crops raised, and cattle-breeding commenced, besides a new industry started
in fibre; the Southern is divided into two provinces, MASHONALAND (q. v.) and MATABELELAND
(q. v.); in Rhodesia public roads have been made to the extent of 2230 miles, and telegraph
lines to the extent of 1856 miles of line and 2583 of wire; it is favourable to the breeding
of stock, though the rinderpest raged in it disastrously for a time; the climate is suitable
for the cultivation of cereals of all kinds, and vegetables, tobacco, india-rubber, and indigo
are indigenous, and well repay cultivation; there are forests of timber, and gold, silver,
copper, coal, tin, &c., have been discovered; it is, roughly speaking, as large as the German
Empire, and in consequence of the Jameson raid the control of the military forces, formerly
under the control of the Company, is now in the hands of the Imperial Government.

RHÔNE, one of the four great rivers of France, rises on Mount St. Gothard, in the Swiss Alps;
passes through the Lake of Geneva, and flowing in a south-westerly course to Lyons, is there
joined by its chief affluent, the Saône, hence it flows due S.; at Arles it divides into two
streams, which form a rich delta before entering the Gulf of Lyons, in the Mediterranean; length,
504 m.; navigable to Lyons, but the rapid current and shifting sandbanks greatly impede traffic.

RHÔNE (807), a department of France lying wholly within the western side of the Saône and Rhône
basin, hilly and fruitful; wine is produced in large quantities; has an active industrial population;
capital, Lyons.

RHUMB LINE, a circle on the earth's surface making a given angle with the meridian; applied
to the course of a ship in navigation.

RHYL (6), a popular watering-place of Flintshire, North Wales, situated on the coast at the
mouth of the Clwyd, 16 m. E. of Conway; has a fine promenade pier, esplanade, gardens, &c.

RHYMER, THOMAS THE, or TRUE THOMAS, Thomas of Ercildoune, or Earlston, a Berwickshire notability
of the 13th century, famous for his rhyming prophecies, who was said, in return for his prophetic
gift, to have sold himself to the fairies.

RHYS, JOHN, Celtic scholar, born in Wales; professor of Celtic at Oxford; has written on subjects
related to that of the chair; b. 1840.

RIBBONISM, the principles of secret associations among the lower Irish Catholics, organised
in opposition to Orangeism, the name being derived from a green ribbon worn as a badge in a
button-hole by the members; they were most active between 1835 and 1855.

RIBERA, JUSEPE, a Spanish painter, born near Valencia; indulged in a realism of a gruesome
type; had Salvator Rosa and Giordano for pupils (1588-1656).

RICARDO, DAVID, political economist, born in London, of Jewish parentage; realised a large
fortune as a member of the Stock Exchange; wrote on political economy on abstract lines, and
from a purely mercantile and materialistic standpoint (1772-1823).

RICASOLI, BARON, Italian statesman, born at Florence; devoted to the cultivation of the vine,
the olive, and the mulberry; was drawn into political life in 1847 in the interest of Italian
unity, succeeded Cavour as Prime Minister, but retired from political life in 1866; his "Letters
and Papers," in 5 vols., were published posthumously (1806-1880).

RICCI, LORENZO, last general of the Jesuits, born in Florence; entered the order when 15; became
general in 1736; on the suppression of the order retired to the castle of St. Angelo, where
he died 1775.

RICCI, MATTEO, founder of the Jesuit mission in China, born in Macerato, Italy; accommodated
himself to the manners of the Chinese, and won their confidence (1552-1610).

RICCIO, DAVID. See RIZZIO.

RICE, JAMES, novelist, born at Northampton, educated at Cambridge; designed for the law, but
took to literature; owned and edited Once a Week; best known as the successful collaborateur
of WALTER BESANT (q. v.) in such popular novels as "The Golden Butterfly," "Ready-Money Mortiboy,"
&c. (1844-1882).

RICH, EDMUND. See EDMUND, ST.

RICHARD I., (surnamed Coeur de Lion), king of England from 1189 to 1199, third son and successor
of Henry II.; his early years were spent in Poitou and Aquitaine, where he engaged in quarrels
with his father; after his accession to the throne he flung himself with characteristic ardour
into the Crusade movement; in 1190 joined his forces with Philip Augustus of France in the
third crusade; upheld the claims of Tancred in Sicily; captured Cyprus, and won great renown
in the Holy Land, particularly by his defeat of Saladin; was captured after shipwreck on the
coast on his way home by the Archduke of Austria, and handed over to the Emperor Henry VI.
(1193); was ransomed at a heavy price by his subjects, and landed in England in 1194; his later
years were spent in his French possessions warring against Philip, and he died of an arrow
wound at the siege of Chalus; not more than a year of his life was spent in England, and his
reign is barren of constitutional change (1157-1199).

RICHARD II., king of England from 1377 to 1399, son of the Black Prince, born at Bordeaux;
succeeded his grandfather, Edward III.; during his minority till 1389 the kingdom was administered
by a council; in 1381 the Peasants' Revolt broke out, headed by Wat Tyler, as a result of the
discontent occasioned by the Statutes of Labour passed in the previous reign, and more immediately
by the heavy taxation made necessary by the expense of the Hundred Years' War still going on
with France; a corrupt Church called forth the energetic protests of Wycliffe, which started
the LOLLARD (q. v.) movement; an invasion of Scotland (1385), resulting in the capture of Edinburgh,
was headed by the young king; coming under French influence, and adopting despotic measures
in the later years of his reign, Richard estranged all sections of his people; a rising headed
by Henry of Lancaster forced his abdication, and by a decree of Parliament he was imprisoned
for life in Pontefract Castle, where he died (probably murdered) soon after (1367-1400).

RICHARD III., king of England from 1483 to 1486, youngest brother of Edward IV., and last of
the Plantagenets, born at Fotheringhay Castle; in 1461 was created Duke of Gloucester by his
brother for assisting him to win the crown; faithfully supported Edward against Lancastrian
attacks; married (1473) Anne, daughter of Warwick, the King-Maker; early in 1483 was appointed
Protector of the kingdom and guardian of his young nephew, Edward V.; put to death nobles who
stood in the way of his ambitious schemes for the throne; doubts were cast upon the legitimacy
of the young king, and Richard's right to the throne was asserted; in July 1483 he assumed
the kingly office; almost certainly instigated the murder of Edward and his little brother
in the Tower; ruled firmly and well, but without the confidence of the nation; in 1488 Henry,
Earl of Richmond, head of the House of Lancaster, invaded England, and at the battle of Bosworth
Richard was defeated and slain (1452-1485).

RICHARD OF CIRENCESTER, an English chronicler, born at Cirencester; flourished in the 14th
century; was a monk in the Benedictine monastery of St. Peter, Westminster; wrote a History
of England from 447 to 1066; for long the reputed author of a remarkable work on Roman Britain,
now proved to be a forgery; d. 1401.

RICHARDS, ALFRED BATE, journalist and author; turned from law to literature; author of a number
of popular dramas, volumes of poems, essays, &c.; was the first editor of the Daily Telegraph,
and afterwards of the Morning Advertiser; took an active interest in the volunteer movement
(1820-1876).

RICHARDSON, SIR BENJAMIN WARD, a distinguished physician and author, born at Somerby, Leicestershire;
took the diploma of the Royal College of Physicians in 1850, and graduated in medicine at St.
Andrews four years later; founded the Journal of Public Health in 1855, and The Asclepiad in
1861, and the Social Science Review in 1862; won the Fothergilian gold medal and the Astley-Cooper
prize of 300 guineas; made many valuable medical inventions, and was an active lecturer on
sanitary science, &c.; was knighted in 1893 (1828-1896).

RICHARDSON, CHARLES, lexicographer; was trained for the bar, but took to literature and education;
pensioned in 1852; his chief works are "Illustrations of English Philology" and the "New Dictionary
of the English Language" (1837), according to Trench the best dictionary of his day (1775-1865).

RICHARDSON, SIR JOHN, M.D., naturalist and Arctic explorer, born at Dumfries; graduated at
Edinburgh; for some time a navy surgeon; accompanied Franklin on the expeditions in 1819-22
and 1825-27, and later commanded one of the Franklin search expeditions (1848); held government
appointments, and was knighted in 1846 (1787-1865).

RICHARDSON, SAMUEL, novelist, born in Derbyshire, the son of a joiner; was apprenticed to a
printer in London, whose daughter he married; set up in the business for himself, and from
his success in it became Master of the Stationers Company in 1754, and King's Printer in 1761;
was 50 before he came out as a novelist; published his "Pamela" in 1740, his masterpiece "Clarissa,"
written in the form of letters, in 1748, and "Sir Charles Grandison" in 1753; they are all
three novels of sentiment, are instinct with a spirit of moral purity, and are more praised
than read (1689-1761).

RICHELIEU, ARMAND-JEAN DUPLESSIS, CARDINAL DE, born in Paris, of a noble family; was minister
of Louis XIII., and one of the greatest statesmen France ever had; from his installation as
Prime Minister in 1624 he set himself to the achievement of a threefold purpose, and rested
not till he accomplished it--the ruin of the Protestants as a political party, the curtailment
of the power of the nobles, and the humiliation of the House of Austria in the councils of
Europe; his administration was signalised by reforms in finance, in the army, and in legislation;
as the historian Thierry has said of him, "He left nothing undone that could be done by statesmanship
for the social amelioration of the country; he had a mind of the most comprehensive grasp,
and a genius for the minutest details of administration"; he was a patron of letters, and the
founder of the French Academy (1585-1642).

RICHMOND, 1, an interesting old borough (4) in Yorkshire, on the Swale, 49 m. N.W. of York;
has a fine 11th-century castle, now partly utilised as barracks, remains of a Franciscan friary,
a racecourse, &c. 2, A town (23) in Surrey, 9 m. W. of London; picturesquely situated on the
summit and slope of Richmond Hill, and the right bank of the Thames; has remains of the royal
palace of Sheen, a magnificent deer park, a handsome river bridge, &c.; supplies London with
fruit and vegetables; has many literary and historical associations. 3, Capital (85) of Virginia,
U.S.; has a hilly and picturesque site on the James River, 116 m. S. of Washington; possesses
large docks, and is a busy port, a manufacturing town (tobacco, iron-works, flour and paper
mills), and a railway centre; as the Confederate capital it was the scene of a memorable, year-long
siege during the Civil War, ultimately falling into the hands of Grant and Sheridan in 1865.

RICHMOND, LEGH, an evangelical clergyman of the Church of England, born in Liverpool, famed
for a tract "The Dairyman's Daughter" (1772-1827).

RICHTER, JEAN PAUL FRIEDRICH, usually called Jean Paul simply, the greatest of German humourists,
born at Wunsiedel, near Baireuth, in Bavaria, the son of a poor German pastor; had a scanty
education, but his fine faculties and unwearied diligence supplied every defect; was an insatiable
and universal reader; meant for the Church, took to poetry and philosophy, became an author,
putting forth the strangest books with the strangest titles; considered for a time a strange,
crack-brained mixture of enthusiast and buffoon; was recognised at last as a man of infinite
humour, sensibility, force, and penetration; his writings procured him friends and fame, and
at length a wife and a settled pension; settled in Baireuth, where he lived thenceforth diligent
and celebrated in many departments of literature, and where he died, loved as well as admired
by all his countrymen, and more by those who had known him most intimately ... his works are
numerous, and the chief are novels, "'Hesperus' and 'Titan' being the longest and the best,
the former of which first (in 1795) introduced him into decisive and universal estimation with
his countrymen, and the latter of which he himself, as well as the most judicious of his critics,
regarded as his masterpiece" (1763-1825).

RICHTHOFEN, BARON VON, traveller and geographer, born in Carlsruhe, Silesia; accompanied in
1861 the Prussian expedition to Eastern Asia, travelled in 1862-68 in California, and in 1869-72
in China; has since been professor of Geography successively at Bonn, Leipzig, and Berlin;
has written a great work on China; b. 1833.

RICORD, PHILIPPE, a famous French physician, born at Baltimore, U.S.; came to Paris, was a
specialist in a department of surgery, and surgeon-in-chief to the hospital for venereal diseases
(1800-1889).

RIDLEY, NICOLAS, martyred bishop, born in Northumberland, Fellow and ultimately Master of Pembroke
College, Cambridge; on a three years' visit to the Continent fell in with certain of the Reformers
and returned convinced of and confirmed in the Protestant faith; became king's chaplain, bishop
of Rochester, and finally of London; favoured the cause of Lady Jane Grey against Mary, who
committed him to the Tower, and being condemned as a heretic was at Oxford burnt at the stake
along with Latimer (1500-1555).

RIEHM, EDWARD, Protestant theologian, born at Diersburg, Baden, was professor at Halle; wrote
many theological works, among them "Handwörterbuch des biblischen Alterthums" (1830-1888).

RIENZI, COLA DI, Roman tribune, born at Rome, of humble origin; gave himself to the study of
the ancient history of the city, became inspired with a noble ambition to restore its ancient
glory, and being endowed with an eloquent tongue, persuaded, with sanction of Pope Clement
VI., who was then at Avignon, his fellow-citizens to rise against the tyranny to which they
were subjected at the hands of the nobles, in which he at length was successful; but his own
rule became intolerable, and he was assassinated in an émeute just seven years after the commencement
of his political career (1313-1354).

RIESENGEBIRGE (i. e. Giant Mountains), a range dividing Bohemia from Silesia; Schneekoppe (5260
ft.) is the highest peak; is a famous summer resort for Germans.

RIFACIMENTO, a literary work recast to adapt it to a change in the circumstances of the time.

RIFF, the name given to the N. coast-lands of Morocco from Tangiers to Algeria; is a mountainous
and woody region, with a rugged foreshore, inhabited by lawless Berbers.

RIGA (182), the third seaport of Russia and capital of Livonia, on the Dwina, 7 m. from its
entrance into the Gulf of Riga (a spacious inlet on the E. side of the Baltic); has some fine
mediæval buildings; is the seat of an archbishop, and is a busy and growing commercial and
manufacturing town, exporting grain, timber, flax, linseed, wool, &c.

RIGDUM FUNNIDOS, Scott's nickname for JOHN BALLANTYNE (q. v.).

RIGHTS, DECLARATION OF, a declaration of the fundamental principles of the constitution drawn
up by the Parliament of England and submitted to William and Mary on their being called to
the throne, and afterwards enacted in Parliament when they became king and queen. It secures
to the people their rights as free-born citizens and to the Commons as their representatives,
while it binds the sovereign to respect these rights as sacred.

RIGI, an isolated mountain, 5900 ft. high, in the Swiss canton of Schwyz, with a superb view
from the summit, on which hotels have been built for the convenience of the many who visit
it; is reached by two toothed railways with a gradient of 1 ft. in 4.

RIGVEDA, the first of the four sections into which the VEDAS (q. v.) are divided, and which
includes the body of the hymns or verses of invocation and praises; believed to have issued
from a narrow circle of priests, and subsequently recast many of them.

RIMINI (11, with suburbs 20), a walled city of N. Italy, of much historic interest both in
ancient and mediæval times, on the small river Marecchia, spanned by a fine Roman bridge close
to its entrance into the Adriatic, 69 m. SE. of Bologna; has a 15th-century Renaissance cathedral,
an ancient castle, and other mediæval buildings, a Roman triumphal arch, &c.; manufactures
silks and sail-cloth.

RIMMON, name of a Syrian god who had a temple at Damascus called the house of Rimmon, a symbol
of the sun, or of the fertilising power of nature.

RINALDO, one of Charlemagne's paladins, of a violent, headstrong, and unscrupulous character,
who fell into disgrace, but after adventures in the Holy Land was reconciled to the Emperor;
Angelica, an infidel princess, fell violently in love with him, but he turned a deaf ear to
her addresses, while others would have given kingdoms for her hand.

RINDERPEST or CATTLE PLAGUE, a fever of a malignant and contagious type; the occurrence of
it in Britain is due to the importation of infected cattle from the Asiatic steppes.

RING AND THE BOOK, a poem by Browning of 20,000 lines, giving different versions of a story
agreeably to and as an exhibition of the personalities of the different narrators.

RIO DE JANEIRO (423), capital and chief seaport of Brazil, charmingly situated on the E. coast
of Brazil, on the W. shore of a spacious and beautiful bay, 15 m. long, which forms one of
the finest natural harbours in the world; stretches some 10 m. along the seaside, and is hemmed
in by richly clad hills; streets are narrow and ill kept; possesses a large hospital, public
library (180,000 vols.), botanical gardens, arsenal, school of medicine, electric tramways,
&c.; has extensive docks, and transacts half the commerce of Brazil; coffee is the chief export;
manufactures cotton, jute, silk, tobacco, &c. Great heat prevails in the summer, and yellow
fever is common.

RIO GRANDE (known also as Rio Bravo del Norte), an important river of North America, rises
in the San Juan Mountains in Colorado; flows SE., dividing Texas from Mexico, and enters the
Gulf of Mexico after a course of 1800 m.; is navigable for steamboats some 500 m.; chief tributary,
Rio Pecos; also the name given to the head-stream of the river Paraná in Brazil and Argentina.

RIO GRANDE DO NORTE (310), a maritime State in the NE. corner of Brazil, called after the Rio
Grande, which flows NE. and enters the Atlantic at Natal, the capital of the State.

RIO GRANDE DO SUL (645), the southmost state in Brazil, lies N. of Uruguay, fronting the Atlantic;
capital, Rio Grande (18).

RIO NEGRO, 1, One of the larger tributaries of the Amazon, rises as the Guainia in SE. Columbia;
crosses Venezuela and Brazil in a more or less SE. direction, and joins the Amazon (the Marañon
here) near Manaos after a course of 1350 m.; some of its tributaries connect the Orinoco with
the Amazon. 2, Has its source in a small lake in the Chilian Andes, flows NE. and E. to the
Atlantic, is some 500 m. long, and easily navigated.

RIOJA (80), a province of W. Argentina, embraces some of the most fruitful valleys of the Andes
which grow cereals, vines, cotton, &c.; some mining in copper, silver, and gold is done. The
capital, Rioja (6), is prettily planted in a vine and orange district at the base of the Sierra
Velasco 350 m. NW. of Cordoba.

RIOM (10), a pretty little French town in the dep. of Puy-de-Dôme, noted for its many quaint
old houses of the Renaissance period; does a good trade in tobacco, linen, &c.

RIP VAN WINKLE, a Dutch colonist of New York who, driven from home by a termagant wife strolls
into a ravine of the Katskill Mountains, falls in with a strange man whom he assists in carrying
a keg, and comes upon a company of odd-looking creatures playing at ninepins, but never uttering
a word, when, seizing an opportunity that offered, he took up one of the kegs he had carried,
fell into a stupor, and slept 20 years, to find his beard and all the world about him quite
changed.

RIPLEY, 1, a manufacturing town (7) of Derbyshire, situated 10 m. NE. of Derby, in a busy coal
and iron district; manufactures silk lace. 2. A Yorkshire village on the Nidd, 3½ m. NW. of
Harrowgate; has an interesting castle, old church, &c.

RIPLEY, GEORGE, American transcendentalist, born in Massachusetts; a friend of Emerson's and
founder of BROOK FARM (q. v.); took to Carlyle as Carlyle to him, though he was "grieved to
see him" taken up with the "Progress of Species" set, and "confusing himself" thereby (1802-1880).

RIPON, FREDERICK JOHN ROBINSON, EARL OF, statesman, younger son of Lord Grantham, entered Parliament
in 1806 as a Tory; rose to be Chancellor of the Exchequer, and was for a few months in 1827
Prime Minister; was subsequently in different Cabinets Colonial Secretary, Lord Privy Seal,
and President of the Board of Trade; created an Earl In 1833 (1782-1859).

RIPON, GEORGE FREDERICK SAMUEL ROBINSON, MARQUIS OF, statesman, born in London, son of preceding;
entered House of Commons in 1852 as a Liberal; became Secretary for War (1863), and three years
later for India; was President of the Council in 1868, a popular Viceroy of India (1880-84),
First Lord of the Admiralty in 1886, and Colonial Secretary in 1892-95; was created Marquis
in 1871; went over to the Catholic Church in 1874, resigning in consequence the Grand-Mastership
of the Freemasons; b. 1827.

RISHANGER, WILLIAM ("Chronigraphus"), an annalist and monk of St. Albans; wrote what is in
effect a continuation of MATTHEW PARIS'S (q. v.) "Chronicle," and practically a history of
his own times from 1259 to 1307, which is both a spirited and trustworthy account, albeit in
parts not original; b. 1250.

RISHIS (i. e. seers), a name given by the Hindus to seven wise men whose eyes had been opened
by the study of the sacred texts of their religion, the souls of whom are fabled to be incarnated
in the seven stars of the Great Bear.

RISTORI, ADELAIDE, distinguished Italian tragédienne; was one of a family of strolling players;
her career on the stage was a continuous triumph; the rôle in which she specially shone was
that of Lady Macbeth; she was married in 1847 to the Marquis del Grillo, and is known as Marquise;
b. 1821.

RITSCHL, ALBRECHT, Protestant theologian, born at Berlin; studied at Rome, where in 1853 he
became professor extraordinarius of theology, and in 1860 ordinary professor; after which he
was in 1864 transferred to Göttingen, where he spent the rest of his life, gathering year after
year around him a large circle of students, and enriching theological literature by his writings;
the work which defines his position as a German theologian is entitled "The Christian Doctrine
of Justification and Reconciliation," in which he seeks to draw the line between Christianity
as exhibited respectively in the theology of the Reformation and that of modern Pietism; by
his lectures and his writings he became the founder of what is called the Göttingen School
of Theology, and exercised an influence on the religious philosophy of the time, such as has
not been witnessed in Germany since the days of Schleiermacher; his teaching is distinguished
by the prominence it gives to the ethical side of Christianity, and that it is only as exhibited
on the ethical side that it becomes the exponent and medium of God's grace to mankind (1822-1889).

RITSCHL, FRIEDRICH WILHELM, German philologist, born near Erfurt; became professor of Philology
successively at Breslau, Bonn, and Leipzig; his influence on philological study was great,
and his greatest work was an edition of Plautus (1806-1876).

RITSON, JOSEPH, a whimsical and crabbed antiquary; his industry was great, his works numerous,
among them one entitled "Ancient English Metrical Romances," containing a long and still valuable
dissertation (1752-1803).

RITTER, HEINRICH, German philosopher, born in Anhalt; professor successively at Berlin, Kiel,
and Göttingen; is distinguished as the author of an able "History of Philosophy" (1791-1860).

RITTER, KARL, celebrated geographer, born at Quedlinburg; the founder of comparative geography;
professor of geography at Berlin; his chief works "Geography in its Relation to Nature," and
the "History of Man" (1779-1859).

RITUALISM, respect for forms in the conduct of religious worship, particularly in connection
with the administration of the sacraments of the Church, under the impression or on the plea
that they minister, as they were ordained in certain cases to minister, to the quickening and
maintenance of the religious life.

RIVAROL, a French writer, born at Bagnols, in the department of Var; famed for his caustic
wit; was a Royalist emigrant at the time of the Revolution, and aided the cause by his pamphlets;
he was styled by Burke "The Tacitus of the Revolution" (1753-1801).

RIVE-DE-GIER (13), a flourishing town in the department of Loire, France, on the Gier, 13 m.
NE. of St. Étienne; is favourably situated in the heart of a rich coal district; has manufactures
of silk, glass, machinery, steel, &c.

RIVERS, RICHARD WOODVILLE, EARL, a prominent figure in the reigns of Henry VI. and Edward IV.;
was knighted in 1425; espoused the cause of the Lancastrians in the Wars of the Roses, but
changed sides on the marriage of his daughter with Edward IV., who created him an earl in 1460;
fell out of jealousy into disfavour with the nobility, and was beheaded in 1469; his son ANTHONY,
who succeeded to the title, after acting on the Council of Regency during Edward V.'s reign,
was put to death by Richard (III.), Duke of Gloucester, in 1483.

RIVIERA, an Italian term for coast-land flanked by mountains, especially applied to the strip
of land lying around the Gulf of Genoa from Nice to Leghorn, which is divided by Genoa into
the Western and Eastern Riviera, the former the more popular as a health resort; but the whole
coast enjoys an exceptionally mild climate, and is replete with beautiful scenery. Nice, Monaco,
Mentone, and San Remo are among its most popular towns.

RIVIÈRE, BRITON, celebrated painter of animals, born in London; among his pictures, which are
numerous, are "Daniel in the Lions' Den," "Ruins of Persepolis," "Giants at Play," and "Væ
Victis"; b. 1840.

RIVOLI, 1, town (5) in North Italy, 8 m. W. of Turin; has two royal castles, and manufactures
silks, woollens, &c. 2, An Italian village, 12 m. NW. of Verona; scene of Napoleon's crushing
victory over the Austrians in 1797.

RIXDOLLAR, a silver coin current on the Continent, of varying value.

RIZZIO, DAVID, favourite of Mary, Queen of Scots, born in Turin; the son of a dancing-master;
was employed by the queen as her secretary, and being offensive to the nobles, was by a body
of them dragged from the queen's presence and stabbed to death, 9th March 1566.

ROANNE (31), an old French town in the department of Loire, on the river Loire, 49 m. NW of
St. Étienne; has interesting ruins, a college flourishing cotton and hat factories, dye-works,
tanneries, &c.

ROANOKE (16), a flourishing city of Virginia, U.S., on the Roanoke River; has rapidly sprung
into a busy centre of steel, iron, machinery, tobacco, and other factories.

ROARING FORTIES, a sailor's term for the Atlantic lying between 40° and 50°N. latitude, so
called from the storms often encountered there.

ROB ROY, a Highland freebooter, second son of Macgregor of Glengyle; assumed the name of Campbell
on account of the outlawry of the Macgregor clan; traded in cattle, took part in the rebellion
of 1715, had his estates confiscated, and indemnified himself by raiding (1671-1734).

ROBBEN ISLAND, a small island at the entrance of Table Bay, 10 m. NW. of Cape Town; has a lunatic
asylum and a leper colony.

ROBBIA, LUCA DELIA, Italian sculptor, born in Florence, where he lived and worked all his days;
executed a series of bas-reliefs for the cathedral, but is known chiefly for his works in enamelled
terra-cotta, the like of which is named after him, "Robbia-ware" (1400-1482).

ROBERT I. See BRUCE.

ROBERT II., king of Scotland from 1371 to 1390, son of Walter Stewart and Marjory, only daughter
of Robert the Bruce; succeeded David II., and became the founder of the Stuart dynasty; was
a peaceable man, but his nobles were turbulent, and provoked invasions on the part of England
by their forays on the Borders (1316-1390).

ROBERT III., king of Scotland from 1390 to 1406, son of Robert II.; was a quite incompetent
ruler, and during his reign the barons acquired an ascendency and displayed a disloyalty which
greatly diminished the power of the Crown both in his and succeeding reigns; the government
fell largely into the hands of the king's brother, the turbulent and ambitious Robert, Duke
of Albany; an invasion (1400) by Henry IV. of England and a retaliatory expedition under Archibald
Douglas, which ended in the crushing defeat of Homildon Hill (1402), are the chief events of
the reign (1340-1406).

ROBERT THE DEVIL, the hero of an old French romance identified with Robert, first Duke of Normandy,
who, after a career of cruelty and crime, repented and became a Christian, but had to expiate
his guilt by wandering as a ghost over the earth till the day of judgment; he is the subject
of an opera composed by Meyerbeer.

ROBERTS, DAVID, painter, born in Edinburgh; began as a house-painter; became a scene-painter;
studied artistic drawing, and devoted himself to architectural painting, his first pictures
being of Rouen and Amiens cathedrals; visiting Spain he published a collection of Spanish sketches,
and after a tour in the East published in 1842 a magnificently-illustrated volume entitled
the "Holy Land, Syria, Idumæa, Arabia, Egypt, and Nubia;" a great number of his pictures are
ecclesiastical interiors (1796-1864).

ROBERTS, LORD, born at Cawnpore, educated in England; entered the Bengal Artillery in 1851;
served throughout the Indian Mutiny, commanded in the Afghan War, and achieved a brilliant
series of successes, which were rewarded with honours on his return to England; was made commander-in-chief
of the Madras army in 1881, commander-in-chief in India in 1885, and commander of the forces
in Ireland in 1895; b. 1832.

ROBERTSON, FREDERICK WILLIAM, distinguished preacher, born in London; a graduate of Brasenose
College, Oxford, entered the Church in 1840, was curate first at Winchester, next at Cheltenham,
and finally settled in Brighton; is known far and wide by his printed sermons for his insight
into, and his earnestness in behalf of, Christian truth (1816-1853).

ROBERTSON, JOSEPH, antiquary, born and educated at Aberdeen; apprenticed to a lawyer, but soon
took to journalism, and became editor of the Aberdeen Constitutional, and afterwards of the
Glasgow Constitutional; in 1849 was editor of the Edinburgh Evening Courant, and four years
later received the post of curator of the historical department of the Edinburgh Register House;
author of various historical, antiquarian, and topographical works (1810-1866).

ROBERTSON, THOMAS WILLIAM, a popular dramatist, the son of an actor, born at Newark-on-Trent;
brought up amongst actors, he naturally took to the stage, but without success; always ready
with his pen, he at last made his mark with "David Garrick," and followed it up with the equally
successful "Ours," "Caste," "School," &c. (1829-1871).

ROBERTSON, WILLIAM, historian, born in Borthwick, Midlothian; was educated in Edinburgh; entered
the Church; became minister of Gladsmuir; distinguished himself in the General Assembly of
the Church; became leader of the Moderate party; one of the ministers of Greyfriars Church,
Edinburgh, and Principal of the University, having previously written his "History of Scotland,"
which brought him other honours, and which was followed by a "History of Charles V." and a
"History of America," all of which contributed to awaken an interest in historical studies;
he was what is called a "Moderate" to the backbone, and his cronies were men more of a sceptical
than a religious turn of mind, David Hume being one of the number; while his history of Scotland,
however well it may be written, as Carlyle testifies, is no history of Scotland at all (1721-1793)

ROBESPIERRE, MAXIMILIEN, leader of the Jacobins in the French Revolution, born in Arras, of
Irish origin; bred to the bar; became an advocate and a judge; he resigned because he could
not brook to sentence a man to death; inspired by the gospel of Rousseau, became a red-hot
Republican and an "INCORRUPTIBLE" (q. v.); carried things with a high hand; was opposed by
the Girondists, and accused, but threw back the charge on them; carried the mob along with
him, and with them at his back procured sentence of death against the king; head of the Committee
of Public Safety, he laid violent hands first on the queen and then on all who opposed or dissented
from the extreme course he was pursuing; had the worship of reason established in June 1794,
and was at the end of the month following beheaded by the guillotine, amid the curses of women
and men (1758-1794).

ROBIN HOOD, a famous outlaw who, with his companions, held court in Sherwood Forest, Nottingham,
and whose exploits form the subject of many an old English ballad and tale. He was a robber,
but it was the rich he plundered and not the poor, and he was as zealous in the protection
of the weak as any Knight of the Round Table; he was an expert in the use of the bow and the
QUARTER-STAFF (q. v.), and he and his men led a merry life together.

ROBINS, BENJAMIN, father of the modern science of artillery, born, the son of a Quaker, at
Bath; established himself in London as a teacher of mathematics, as also his reputation by
several mathematical treatises; turned his attention to the theoretical study of artillery
and fortification; upheld Newton's principle of ultimate ratios against Berkeley, and in 1742
published his celebrated work, the "New Principles of Gunnery," which revolutionised the art
of gunnery; was appointed engineer-in-general to the East India Company (1749), and planned
the defences of Madras (1707-1751).

ROBINSON, EDWARD, Biblical scholar, born in Connecticut; author of "Biblical Researches in
Palestine"; a professor in New York (1794-1863).

ROBINSON, HENRY CRABB, literary dilettante, born at Bury St. Edmunds; lived some years at Weimar,
and got acquainted with Goethe and his circle; called to the English bar, and on quitting practice
at it with a pension, became acquainted with the literary notabilities in London, and left
a diary full of interesting reminiscences (1775-1807).

ROBINSON, HERCULES GEORGE ROBERT, LORD ROSMEAD, born, son of an admiral, in 1824; withdrew
from the army shortly after his first commission, and gave himself to Government Colonial service;
received a knighthood, and held Governorship of Hong-Kong in 1859; was successively governor
of Ceylon, New South Wales, New Zealand, Cape of Good Hope, &c.; created Lord Rosmead in 1896
(1824-1898).

ROBINSON, MARY, poetess, born at Leamington; author of various poetical works, a translation
of Euripides' "Hippolytus," a Life of Emily Brontë, &c.; married in 1886 to M. Darmesteter,
a noted French Orientalist; b. 1857.

ROBSON, FREDERICK (stage name of F. R. Brownhill), a noted comedian, born at Margate; took
to the stage in 1844 after serving some time as an apprentice to a London engraver; his greatest
triumphs were won after 1853 on the boards of the Olympic Theatre, London; he combined in a
high degree all the gifts of a low comedian with a rare power of rising to the grave and the
pathetic (1821-1864).

ROCHAMBEAU, COMTE DE, marshal of France, born at Vendôme; commanded the troops sent out by
France to assist the American colonies in their rebellion against the mother-country (1725-1807).

ROCHDALE (72), a flourishing town and cotton centre in Lancashire, prettily situated on the
Roche, 11 m. NE. Of Manchester; its woollen and cotton trade (flannels and calicoes) dates
back to Elizabeth's time; has an interesting 12th century parish church.

ROCHE, ST., the Patron saint of the plague-stricken; being plague-smitten himself, and overtaken
with it in a desert place, he was discovered by a dog, who brought him a supply of bread daily
from his master's table till he recovered.

ROCHEFORT, COMTE DE, commonly known as Henri Rochefort, French journalist and violent revolutionary,
who was deported for his share in the Commune in 1871, but escaped and was amnestied, and went
back to Paris under eclipse; b. 1830.

ROCHELLE, LA (23), a fortified seaport of France, on an inlet of the Bay of Biscay, 95 m. NW.
of Bordeaux; capital of the department of Charente-Inférieure; has a commodious harbour, noteworthy
public buildings, a fine promenade and gardens; shipbuilding, glass-works, sugar-refineries,
&c., are among its chief industries.

ROCHESTER, 1, an interesting old city (26), of Kent, 29 m. SE. of London, on the Medway, lying
between and practically forming one town with Strood and Chatham; the seat of a bishop since
604; has a fine cathedral, which combines in its structure examples of Norman, Early English,
and Decorated architecture; a hospital for lepers founded in 1078; a celebrated Charity House,
and a strongly posted Norman castle. 2, Capital (163), of Monroe County, New York, on the Genesee
River, near Lake Ontario, 67 m. NE. of Buffalo; is a spacious and well-appointed city, with
a university, theological seminary, &c.; has varied and flourishing manufactures.

ROCHESTER, JOHN WILMOT, EARL OF, a witty profligate of the court of Charles II.; wrote poems,
many of them licentious, among them, however, some exquisite songs; killed himself with his
debauchery; died penitent; he was the author of the epitaph, accounted the best epigram in
the English language, "Here lies our sovereign Lord the king," &c. (1648-1680).

ROCHET, a linen vestment worn by bishops, abbots, and other dignitaries, in the form of a surplice,
but shorter and open at the sides.

ROCK ISLAND (14), capital of Rock Island county, Illinois, on the Mississippi; a busy centre
of railway and river traffic; derives its name from an island in the river, where there is
an extensive Government arsenal; a fine bridge spans the river.

ROCK TEMPLES, temples hewn out of solid rock, found in Western India especially, such as those
at ELLORA (q. v.) and ELEPHANTA (q. v.).

ROCKALL, a remarkable peak of granite rock, rising some 70 ft. above the sea-level from the
bed of an extensive sandbank in the Atlantic, 184 m. W. of St. Kilda; a home and haunt for
sea-birds.

ROCK-BUTTER, a soft mineral substance found oozing from alum slates, and consisting of alum,
alumina, and oxide of iron.

ROCKFORD (24), a busy manufacturing town, capital of Winnebago County, Illinois, on the Rock
River, 86 m. NW. of Chicago.

ROCKHAMPTON (12), the chief port of Central Queensland, Australia, on the Fitzroy, 35 m. from
its mouth; in the vicinity are rich gold-fields, also copper and silver; engaged in tanning,
meat-preserving, &c.; is connected by a handsome bridge with its suburb North Rockhampton.

ROCKING STONES or LOGANS, large stones, numerous in Cornwall, Wales, Yorkshire, &c., so finely
poised as to rock to and fro under the slightest force.

ROCKINGHAM, CHARLES WATSON WENTWORTH, MARQUIS OF, statesman, of no great ability; succeeded
to the title in 1750; opposed the policy of Bute, and headed the Whig opposition; in 1762 became
Prime Minister, and acted leniently with the American colonies, repealing the Stamp Act; was
a bitter opponent of North's American policy of repression; held the Premiership again for
a few months in 1782 (1730-1782).

ROCKY MOUNTAINS, an extensive and lofty chain of mountains in North America, belonging to the
Cordillera system, and forming the eastern buttress of the great Pacific Highlands, of which
the Sierra Nevada and Cascade Mountains form the western buttress, stretching in rugged lines
of almost naked rock, interspersed with fertile valleys, from New Mexico through Canada to
the Arctic Ocean, broken only by a wonderfully beautiful tract of elevated plateau in southern
Wyoming, over which passes the Union Pacific Railroad; reaches its greatest height in Colorado
(Gray's Peak, 14,341 ft.); gold, silver, &c., are found abundantly.

ROCOCO, name given to a debased style of architecture, overlaid with a tasteless, senseless
profusion of fantastic ornamentation, without unity of design or purpose, which prevailed in
France and elsewhere in the 18th century.

ROCROI (2), a small fortified town of France, about 3 m. from the Belgian frontier, in the
dep. of Ardennes; memorable for a great victory of the French under Condé over the Spaniards
in 1643.

RODBERTUS, JOHANN KARL, Socialist, born in Greifswald; believed in a Socialism that would in
course of time realise itself with the gradual elevation of the people up to the Socialistic
ideal (1815-1875).

RODERIC, the last king of the Visigoths in Spain, was slain in battle with the Moors, who had
invaded Spain during a civil war, and his army put to flight in 711.

RODERICK RANDOM, the hero of a novel of Smollett's, a young Scotch scapegrace, rough and reckless,
and bold enough.

RODEZ (15), a town of France, in the dep. of Aveyron; crowns an eminence at the foot of which
flows the Aveyron, 80 m. NE. of Toulouse; has a beautiful Gothic cathedral, interesting Roman
remains; manufactures textiles, leather, paper, &c.

RODIN, AUGUSTE, eminent French sculptor, born in Paris, distinguished for his statues and busts;
b. 1840-1917.

RODNEY, LORD, English admiral, born at Walton-on-Thames; entered the navy at the age of 12,
and obtained the command of a ship in 1742; did good service in Newfoundland; was made Admiral
of the Blue in 1759, and in that year destroyed the stores at Havre de Grace collected for
the invasion of England; in 1780 defeated the Spanish fleet off Cape St. Vincent; in 1782 defeated
the French fleet under Count de Grasse by breaking the enemy's line; was first made a baronet
and then a peer, with a pension of £2000, for his services to the country (1718-1792).

RODOSTO (19), a Turkish town on the N. coast of the Sea of Marmora, 60 m. W. of Constantinople;
is the seat of an archbishop of the Greek Church, has many mosques; fruitful vineyards in the
vicinity produce excellent wine.

RODRIGUEZ (2), an interesting volcanic island lying far out in the Indian Ocean, 380 m. NE.
of Mauritius, of which it is a dependency; agriculture is the chief employment; has a good
climate, but is subject to severe hurricanes.

ROE, EDWARD PAYSON, American novelist, born in New Windsor, New York; studied for the ministry
and served as a chaplain during the Civil War; settled down as a pastor of a Presbyterian church
at Highland Fells; made his mark as a novelist in 1872 with "Barriers Burned Away"; took to
literature and fruit-gardening, and won a wide popularity with such novels as "From Jest to
Earnest," "Near to Nature's Heart," &c. (1838-1888).

ROEBUCK, JOHN ARTHUR, English Radical politician, born at Madras; represented first Bath and
then Sheffield in Parliament, contributed to the downfall of the Aberdeen Government, and played
in general an independent part; his vigorous procedure as a politician earned for him the nickname
of "Tear 'em" (1802-1879).

ROERMOND (12), an old Dutch town in Limburg, at the confluence of the Roer and the Meuse, 29
m. N. by E. of Maestricht; has a splendid 13th-century cathedral; manufactures cottons, woollens,
&c.

ROESKILDE, an interesting old Danish city, situated on a fjord, 20 m. W. by S. of Copenhagen,
dates back to the 10th century; has a fine 13th-century cathedral, the burying-place of most
of the Danish kings.

ROGATION DAYS, the Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday preceding Ascension Day, on which special
litanies are sung or recited by the Roman Catholic clergy and people in public procession;
has its origin in an old custom dating from the 6th century. In England the practice ceased
after the Reformation.

ROGER I., the youngest of the 12 sons of Tancred of Hauteville; conquered Sicily from the Saracens
after a war of 30 years, and governed it under the title of count in part from 1071 and wholly
from 1089 to 1101.

ROGER II., son and successor of the preceding, was crowned king of the two Sicilies by the
Pope; waged war advantageously against the Emperor of the East and the Saracens of North Africa;
ruled the country well and promoted industry (1097-1154).

ROGER OF WENDOVER, an early English chronicler, lived in the 13th century; was a monk of St.
Albans and subsequently prior of Belvoir; wrote a history of the world down to Henry III.'s
reign, the only valuable portion of it being that which deals with his own times.

ROGERS, HENRY, English essayist; contributed for years to the Edinburgh Review; author of the
"Eclipse of Faith" (1806-1877).

ROGERS, JAMES E. THORWOLD, political economist, born in Hampshire; became professor of Political
Economy at Oxford; author of a "History of Agriculture and Prices in England" and "Six Centuries
of Work and Wages," an abridgment of it (1823-1890).

ROGERS, JOHN, the first of the Marian martyrs, born at Birmingham; prepared a revised edition
of the English Bible, preached at Paul's Cross against Romanism the Sunday after Mary's entrance
into London, and was after a long imprisonment tried for heresy, and condemned to be burned
at Smithfield (1505-1555).

ROGERS, SAMUEL, English poet, born in London, son of a banker, bred to banking, and all his
life a banker--took to literature, produced a succession of poems: "The Pleasures of Memory"
in 1792, "Human Life" in 1819, and "Italy," the chief, in 1822; he was a good conversationalist,
and told lots of good stories, of which his "Table-Talk," published in 1856, is full; he issued
at great expense a fine edition of "Italy" and early poems, which were illustrated by Turner
and Stothard, and are much prized for the illustrations (1763-1855).

ROGET, PETER MARK, physician, born in London; was professor of Physiology at the Royal Institution;
wrote on physiology in relation to natural theology; was author of a "Thesaurus of English
Words and Phrases" (1779-1869).

ROHAN, PRINCE LOUIS DE, a profligate ecclesiastic of France who attained to the highest honours
in the Church; became archbishop and cardinal, but who had fallen out with royalty; was debarred
from court, tried every means to regain the favour of Marie Antoinette, which he had forfeited,
was inveigled into buying a necklace for her in hope of thereby winning it back, found himself
involved in the scandal connected with it, and was sent to the Bastille (1783-1803). See "Diamond
Necklace" in CARLYLE'S "MISCELLANIES."

ROHILKHAND (5,343), a northern division of the North-West Provinces, British India; is a flat,
well-watered, fertile district, crossed by various railways; takes its name from the Rohillas,
an Afghan tribe, who had possession of it in the 18th century.

ROHILLAS (i. e. hillmen), a tribe of Afghans who settled in a district N. of Oudh, called Rohilkhand
after them, and rose to power in the 18th century, till their strength was broken by the British
in 1774.

ROHLFS, F. GERARD, German traveller, born near Bremen, travelled in various directions through
North Africa; undertook missions to Abyssinia, and has written accounts of his several journeys;
b. 1832.

ROKITANSKY, BARON, eminent physician, born at Königgrätz, professor of Pathological Anatomy
at Vienna, and founder of that department of medicine (1804-1878).

ROLAND, one of the famous paladins of Charlemagne, and distinguished for his feats of valour,
who, being inveigled into the pass of Roncesvalles, was set upon by the Gascons and slain,
along with the flower of the Frankish chivalry, the whole body of which happened to be in his
train. (1754-1793).

ROLAND DE LA PLATIÈRE, JEAN MARIE, husband of Madame Roland, was Inspector of Manufactures
at Lyons; represented Lyons in the Constituent Assembly; acted with the Girondists; fled when
the Girondist party fled, and on hearing of his wife's fate at Rouen bade farewell to his friends
who had sheltered him, and was found next morning "sitting leant against a tree, stiff in the
rigour of death, a cane-sword run through his heart" (1732-1793).

ROLLIN, CHARLES, French historian, born in Paris; rector of the University; wrote "Ancient
History" in 13 vols., and "Roman History" in 16 vols., once extremely popular, but now discredited
and no longer in request (1661-1741).

ROLLO, a Norwegian, who became the chief of a band of Norse pirates who one day sailed up the
Seine to Rouen and took it, and so ravaged the country that Charles the Simple was glad to
come to terms with them by surrendering to them part of Neustria, which thereafter bore from
them the name of Normandy; after this Rollo embraced Christianity, was baptized by the Bishop
of Rouen, and was the first Duke of Normandy (860-932).

ROMAGNA, the former name of a district in Italy which comprised the NE. portion of the Papal
States, embracing the modern provinces of Ferrara, Bologna, Ravenna, and Forli.

ROMAINE, WILLIAM, evangelical divine of the English Church, born at Hartlepool, author of works
once held in much favour by the evangelicals, entitled severally "The Life, the Walk, and the
Triumph of Faith" (1714-1795).

ROMAN EMPIRE, HOLY, or the REICH, the name of the old German Empire which, under sanction of
the Pope, was established by Otho the Great in 962, and dissolved in 1806 by the resignation
of Francis II., Emperor of Austria, and was called "Holy" as being Christian in contrast with
the old pagan empire of the name.

ROMANCE LANGUAGES, the name given to the languages that sprung from the Latin, and were spoken
in the districts of South Europe that had been provinces of Rome.

ROMANES, GEORGE JOHN, naturalist, born at Kingston, Canada; took an honours degree in science
at Cambridge; came under the influence of Darwin, whose theory of evolution he advocated and
developed in lectures and various works, e. g. "Scientific Evidences of Organic Evolution,"
"Mental Evolution in Animals," "Mental Evolution in Man"; his posthumous "Thoughts on Religion"
reveal a marked advance from his early agnosticism towards a belief in Christianity; founded
the Romanes Lectures at Oxford (1848-1894).

ROMANOFF, the name of an old Russian family from which sprung the reigning dynasty of Russia,
and the first Czar of which was Michael Fedorovitch (1613-1645).

ROMANS (17), a town in the dep. Drôme, France, on the Isère, 12 m. NE. of Valence; a 9th-century
bridge spans the river to the opposite town Péage; has a 9th-century abbey; manufactures silk, &c.

ROMANS, EPISTLE TO THE, an epistle written from Corinth, in the year 59, by St. Paul to the
Church at Rome to correct particularly two errors which he had learned the Church there had
fallen into, on the part, on the one hand, of the Jewish Christians, that the Gentiles as such
were not entitled to the same privileges as themselves, and, on the other hand, of the Gentile
Christians, that the Jews by their rejection of Christ had excluded themselves from God's kingdom;
and he wrote this epistle to show that the one had no more right to the grace of God than the
other, and that this grace contemplates the final conversion of the Jews as well as the Gentiles.
The great theme of this epistle is that faith in Christ is the one way of salvation for all
mankind, Jew as well as Gentile, and its significance is this, that it contains if not the
whole teaching of Paul, that essential part of it which presents and emphasises the all-sufficiency
of this faith.

ROME (423), since 1871 capital of the modern kingdom of Italy (q. v.), on the Tiber, 16 m.
from its entrance into the Tyrrhenian Sea; legend ascribes its foundation to Romulus in 753
B.C., and the story of its progress, first as the chief city of a little Italian kingdom, then
of a powerful and expanding republic (510 B.C. to 30 B.C.), and finally of a vast empire, together
with its decline and fall in the 5th century (476 A.D.), before the advancing barbarian hordes,
forms the most impressive chapter in the history of nations; as the mother-city of Christendom
in the Middle Ages, and the later capital of the PAPAL STATES (q. v.) and seat of the Popes,
it acquired fresh glory; it remains the most interesting city in the world; is filled with
the sublime ruins and monuments of its pagan greatness and the priceless art-treasures of its
mediæval period; of ruined buildings the most imposing are the Colosseum (a vast amphitheatre
for gladiatorial shows) and the Baths of Caracalla (accommodated 1600 bathers); the great aqueducts
of its Pre-Christian period still supply the city with water from the Apennines and the Alban
Hills; the Aurelian Wall (12 m.) still surrounds the city, enclosing the "seven hills," the
Palatine, Capitoline, Aventine, &c., but suburbs have spread beyond; St. Peter's is yet the
finest church in the world; the Popes have their residence in the Vatican; its manufactures
are inconsiderable, and consist chiefly of small mosaics, bronze and plaster casts, prints,
trinkets, &c.; depends for its prosperity chiefly on the large influx of visitors, and the
court expenditure of the Quirinal and Vatican, and of the civil and military officials.

ROMFORD (8), an old market-town of Essex, on the Bourne or Rom, 12 m. NE. of London; noted
for its cattle and corn markets; industries include brewing, market-gardening, foundries, &c.

ROMILLY, SIR SAMUEL, English lawyer, born in London, of a Huguenot family; was a Whig in politics,
and was Solicitor-General for a time; devoted himself to the amendment of the criminal law
of the country, and was a zealous advocate against slavery and the spy system (1751-1818).

ROMNEY, GEORGE, English portrait-painter, born in Lancashire; married at Kendal, left his wife
and two children there, and painted portraits in London for 35 years in rivalry with Reynolds
and Gainsborough, and retired at the end of that time to Kendal to die, his wife nursing him
tenderly, though in the whole course of the term referred to, he had visited her only twice
(1734-1862).

ROMNEY, NEW (1), one of the old CINQUE PORTS (q. v.), in S. Kent, 8 m. SW. of Hythe; the sea
has receded from its shores, leaving it no longer a port; as centre of a fine pastoral district
it has an important sheep fair; the little village of Old Romney lies 1½ m. inland.

ROMOLA, a novel by George Eliot, deemed her greatest by many, being "a deep study of life in
the city of Florence from an intellectual, artistic, religious, and social point of view."

ROMSAY (4), a town in Hampshire, on the Test, 8 m. NW. of Southampton; has a remarkably fine
old Norman church and a corn exchange; birthplace of Lord Palmerston.

ROMULUS, legendary founder of Rome, reputed son of Mars and RHEA SILVIA (q. v.), daughter of
Numitor, king of Alba Longa; exposed at his birth, along with Remus, his twin-brother (q. v.);
was suckled by a she-wolf and brought up by Faustulus, a shepherd; opened an asylum for fugitives
on one of the hills of Rome, and founded the city in 753 B.C., peopling it by a rape of Sabine
women, and afterwards forming a league with the SABINES (q. v.); he was translated to heaven
during a thunderstorm, and afterwards worshipped as Quirinus, leaving Rome behind him as his mark.

RONALDSHAY, NORTH AND SOUTH, two of the Orkney Islands; North Ronaldshay is the most northerly
of the Orkney group; South Ronaldshay (2) lies 6¼ m. NE. of Duncansby Head; both have a fertile
soil, and the coast fisheries are valuable.

RONCESVALLES, a valley of the Pyrenees, 23 m. NE. of Pampeluna, where in 775 the rear of the
army of Charlemagne was cut in pieces by the Basques, and ROLAND (q. v.) with the other Paladins
was slain.

RONDA (19), one of the old Moorish towns of Spain, built amid grand scenery on both sides of
a great ravine (bridged in two places), down which rushes the Guadiaro, 43 m. W. of Malaga;
is a favourite summer resort.

RONDEAU, a form of short poem (originally French) which, as in the 15th century, usually consists
of 13 lines, eight of which have one rhyme and five another; is divided into three stanzas,
the first line of the rondeau forming the concluding line of the last two stanzas; Swinburne
has popularised it in modern times.

RONDO, a form of musical composition which corresponds to the RONDEAU (q. v.) in poetry; consists
of two or more (usually three) strains, the first being repeated at the end of each of the
other two, but it admits of considerable variation.

RONSARD, PIERRE, celebrated French poet, born near Vendôme; was for a time attached to the
Court; was for three years of the household of James V. of Scotland in connection with it,
and afterwards in the service of the Duke of Orleans, but having lost his hearing gave himself
up to literature, writing odes and sonnets; he was of the PLÉIADE SCHOOL OF POETS (q. v.),
and contributed to introduce important changes in the idiom of the French language, as well
as in the rhythm of French poetry (1521-1585).

RÖNTGEN, WILHELM KONRAD VON, discoverer of the Röntgen rays, born at Lennep, in Rhenish Prussia;
since 1885 has been professor of Physics at Würzburg; his discovery of the X-rays was made
in 1898, and has won him a wide celebrity; b. 1845.

RÖNTGEN RAYS, described by Dr. Knott as "rays of light that pass with ease through many substances
that are optically opaque, but are absorbed by others." "For example," he says, "the bony structures
of the body are much less transparent than the fleshy parts; hence by placing the hand between
a fluorescent screen and the source of these rays we see the shadow of the skeleton of the
hand with a much fainter shadow of the flesh and skin bordering it." See Dr. Knott's "Physics."

ROOKE, SIR GEORGE, British admiral, born at Canterbury; distinguished himself at the battle
of Cape La Hogue in 1692; in an expedition against Cadiz destroyed the Plate-fleet in the harbour
of Vigo in 1702; assisted in the capture of Gibraltar from the Spaniards in 1704, and fought
a battle which lasted a whole day with a superior French force off Malaga the same year (1650-1709).

ROON, COUNT VON, Prussian general, born in Pomerania; was Minister of War in 1859 and of Marine
in 1861; was distinguished for the important reforms he effected in the organisation of the
Prussian army, conspicuous in the campaigns of 1866 and 1871-72 (1803-1879).

ROOT AND BRANCH MEN, name of a party in the Commons who in 1641 supported a petition for the
abolition of Episcopacy in England, and even carried a bill through two readings, to be finally
thrown out.

ROPEMAKER, THE BEAUTIFUL. See LABÉ, LOUISE.

RORKE'S DRIFT, a station on the Tugela River, Zululand, the defence of which was on the night
of the 24th January 1879 successfully maintained by 80 men of the 24th Regiment against 4000
Zulu warriors.

ROSA, CARL, father of English opera, born at Hamburg; introduced on the English stage the standard
Italian, French, and German operas with an English text (1842-1889).

ROSA, SALVATOR, Italian painter, born near Naples, a man of versatile ability; could write
verse and compose music, as well as paint and engrave; his paintings of landscape were of a
sombre character, and generally representative of wild and savage scenes; he lived chiefly
in Rome, but took part in the insurrection of Masaniello at Naples in 1647 (1615-1673).

ROSAMOND, FAIR, a daughter of Lord Clifford, and mistress of Henry II., who occupied a bower
near Woodstock, the access to which was by a labyrinth, the windings of which only the king
could thread. Her retreat was discovered by Queen Eleanor, who poisoned her.

ROSARIO (51), an important city of the Argentine Republic, on the Paraná, 190 m. NW. of Buenos
Ayres; does a large trade with Europe, exporting wool, hides, maize, wheat, &c.

ROSARY, a string of beads used by Hindus, Buddhists, Mohammedans, and Roman Catholics as an
aid to the memory during devotional exercises; the rosary of the Roman Catholics consists of
beads of two sizes, the larger ones mark the number of Paternosters and the smaller the number
of Ave Marias repeated; of the former there are usually five, of the latter fifty.

ROSAS, JEAN MANUEL, Argentine statesman, born at Buenos Ayres; organised the confederation,
became dictator, failed to force the Plate River States into the confederation, and took refuge
in England, where he died (1793-1877).

ROSCHER, WILHELM, distinguished political economist, born at Hanover, professor at Göttingen
and Leipzig, the head of the historical school of political economy; his chief work a "System
of Political Economy" (1817-1894).

ROSCIUS, QUINTUS, famous Roman comic actor, born near Lanuvium, in the Sabine territory; was
a friend of Cicero, and much patronised by the Roman nobles; was thought to have reached perfection
in his art, so that his name became a synonym for perfection in any profession or art.

ROSCOE, SIR HENRY, chemist, born in London, grandson of succeeding, professor at Owens College,
Manchester; author of treatises on chemistry; b. 1834.

ROSCOE, WILLIAM, historian, born in Liverpool; distinguished as the author of the "Life of
Lorenzo de' Medici" and of "Leo X.," as well as of "Handbooks of the Italian Renaissance" and
a collection of poems (1753-1831).

ROSCOMMON (114), an inland county of Connaught, SW. Ireland; is poorly developed; one-half
is in grass, and a sixth mere waste land; crops of hay, potatoes, and oats are raised, but
the rearing of sheep and cattle is the chief industry; the rivers Shannon and Suck lie on its
E. and W. borders respectively; there is some pretty lake-scenery, interesting Celtic remains,
castle, and abbey ruins, &c. The county town, 96 m. NW. of Dublin, has a good cattle-market,
and remains of a 13th-century Dominican abbey and castle.

ROSCREA (3), an old market-town of Tipperary, 77 m. SW. of Dublin; its history reaches back
to the 7th century, and it has interesting ruins of a castle, round tower, and two abbeys.

ROSEBERY, ARCHIBALD PHILIP PRIMROSE, EARL OF, born in London; educated at Eton and Christ's
Church, Oxford; succeeded to the earldom in 1868; was twice over Secretary for Foreign Affairs
under Mr. Gladstone, in 1885 and 1892; was first Chairman of London County Council; became
Prime Minister on March 1894 on Mr. Gladstone's retirement, and resigned in June 1895; he is
one of the most popular statesmen and orators of the day, and held in deservedly high esteem
by all classes; b. 1847.

ROSECRANS, WILLIAM STARKE, American general, born at Kingston, Ohio; trained as an engineer,
he had settled down to coal-mining when the Civil War broke out; joined the army in 1861, and
rapidly came to the front; highly distinguished himself during the campaigns of 1862-63, winning
battles at Iuka, Corinth, and Stone River; but defeated at Chickamauga he lost his command;
reinstated in 1864 he drove Price out of Missouri; has been minister to Mexico, a member of
Congress, and since 1885 Registrar of the U.S. Treasury; b. 1819.

ROSENKRANZ, KARL, philosopher of the Hegelian school, born at Magdeburg; professor of Philosophy
at Königsberg; wrote an exposition of the Hegelian system, a "Life of Hegel," on "Goethe and
his Works," &c. (1805-1879).

ROSES, WARS OF THE, the most protracted and sanguinary civil war in English history, fought
out during the reigns of Henry VI., Edward IV., and Richard III. between the adherents of the
noble houses of York and Lancaster--rival claimants for the throne of England--whose badges
were the white and the red rose respectively; began with the first battle of St. Albans (1455),
in which Richard, Duke of York, defeated Henry VI.'s forces under the Duke of Somerset; but
not till after the decisive victory at Towton (1461) did the Yorkists make good their claim,
when Edward (IV.), Duke of York, became king. Four times the Lancastrians were defeated during
his reign. The war closed with the defeat and death of the Yorkist Richard III. at Bosworth,
1485, and an end was put to the rivalry of the two houses by the marriage of Henry VII. of
Lancaster with Elizabeth of York, 1486.

ROSETTA (18), a town on the left branch of the delta of the Nile, 44 m. NE. of Alexandria,
famous for the discovery near it by M. Boussard, in 1799, of the Rosetta stone with inscriptions
in hieroglyphic, demotic and Greek, and by the help of which archæologists have been able to
interpret the hieroglyphics of Egypt.

ROSICRUCIANS, a fraternity who, in the beginning of the 15th century, affected an intimate
acquaintance with the secrets of nature, and pretended by the study of alchemy and other occult
sciences to be possessed of sundry wonder-working powers.

ROSINANTE, the celebrated steed of Don Quixote, reckoned by him superior to the Bucephalus
of Alexander and the Bavieca of the Cid.

ROSLIN, a pretty little village of Midlothian, by the wooded side of the North Esk, 6½ m. S.
of Edinburgh; has ruins of a 14th-century castle, and a small chapel of rare architectural
beauty, built in the 16th century as the choir of a projected collegiate church.

ROSMINI, ANTONIO ROSMINI-SERBATI, distinguished Italian philosopher, born at Rovereto, entered
the priesthood, devoted himself to the study of philosophy, founded a system and an institute
called the "Institute of the Brethren of Charity" at Stresa, W. of Lake Maggiore, on a pietistic
religious basis, which, though sanctioned by the Pope, has encountered much opposition at the
hands of the obscurantist party in the Church (1797-1865).

ROSS, SIR JOHN, Arctic explorer, born in Wigtownshire; made three voyages, the first in 1811
under Parry; the second in 1829, which he commanded; and a third in 1850, in an unsuccessful
search for Franklin, publishing on his return from them accounts of the first two, in both
of which he made important discoveries (1777-1856).

ROSSANO (19), a town of Southern Italy, in Calabria, 2 m. from the SW. shore of the Gulf of
Taranto; has a fine cathedral and castle; valuable quarries of marble and alabaster are wrought
in the vicinity.

ROSSBACH, a village in Prussian Saxony, 9 m. SW. of Merseburg, where Frederick the Great gained
in 1767 a brilliant victory with 22,000 men over the combined arms of France and Austria with
60,000.

ROSSE, WILLIAM PARSONS, THIRD EARL OF, born in York; devoted to the study of astronomy; constructed
reflecting telescopes, and a monster one at the cost of £30,000 at Parsonstown, his seat in
Ireland, by means of which important discoveries were made, specially in the resolution of
nebulæ (1800-1867).

ROSSETTI, CHARLES DANTE GABRIEL, poet and painter, born in London, the son of Gabriele Rossetti;
was as a painter one of the PRE-RAPHAELITE BROTHERHOOD (q. v.), and is characterised by Ruskin
as "the chief intellectual force in the establishment of the modern romantic school in England,...
as regarding the external world as a singer of the Romaunts would have regarded it in the Middle
Ages, and as Scott, Burns, Byron, and Tennyson have regarded it in modern times," and as a
poet was leader of the romantic school of poetry, which, as Stopford Brooke remarks, "found
their chief subjects in ancient Rome and Greece, in stories and lyrics of passion, in mediæval
romance, in Norse legends, in the old English of Chaucer, and in Italy" (1828-1882).

ROSSETTI, CHRISTINA GEORGINA, poetess, born in London, sister of Dante Gabriel Rossetti, and
of kindred temper with her brother, but with distinct qualities of her own; her first volume,
called the "Goblin-Market," contains a number of very beautiful short poems; she exhibits,
along with a sense of humour, a rare pathos, which, as Professor Saintsbury remarks, often
"blends with or passes into the utterance of religious awe, unstained and unweakened by any
craven fear" (1830-1894).

ROSSETTI, GABRIELE, Italian poet and orator, born at Vasto; had for his patriotic effusions
to leave Italy, took refuge in London, and became professor of Italian in King's College, London;
was a man of strong character, and student of literature as well as man of letters himself;
was the father of Dante Gabriel and Christina (1783-1854).

ROSSI, PELLEGRINO, an Italian jurist and politician, born at Carrara, educated at Bologna,
where he became professor of Law in 1812; four years later was appointed to a chair in Geneva,
where he also busied himself with politics as a member of the Council and deputy in the Diet;
settled in Paris in 1833, became professor at the Collège de France, was naturalised and created
a peer, returned to Rome, broke off his connection with France, won the friendship of Pius
IX., and rose to be head of the ministry; was assassinated (1787-1848).

ROSSINI, GIOACCHINO, celebrated Italian composer of operatic music, born at Pesaro; his operas
were numerous, of a high order, and received with unbounded applause, beginning with "Tancred,"
followed by "Barber of Seville," "La Gazza Ladra," "Semiramis," "William Tell," &c.; he composed
a "Stabat Mater," and a "Mass" which was given at his grave (1792-1868).

ROSTOCK (44), a busy German port in Mecklenburg, on the Warnow, 7 m. from its entrance into
the Baltic; exports large quantities of grain, wool, flax, &c., has important wool and cattle
markets; shipbuilding is the chief of many varied industries, owns a flourishing university,
a beautiful Gothic church, a ducal palace, &c.

ROSTOFF, 1, a flourishing town (67) of South Russia, on the Don, 34 m. E. of Taganrog; manufactures
embrace tobacco, ropes, leather, shipbuilding, &c. 2, One of the oldest of Russian market-towns
(12), on the Lake of Rostoff, 34 m. SW. of Jaroslav, seat of an archbishop; manufactures linens,
silks, &c.

ROSTOPCHINE, COUNT, Russian general, governor of Moscow; was charged with having set fire to
the city against the entrance of the French in 1812; in his defence all he admitted was that
he had set fire to his own mansion, and threw the blame of the general conflagration on the
citizens and the French themselves (1763-1826).

ROSTRUM (lit. a beak), a pulpit in the forum of Rome where the orators delivered harangues
to the people, so called as originally constructed of the prows of war-vessels taken at the
first naval battle in which Rome was engaged.

ROTHE, RICHARD, eminent German theologian, born at Posen, professor eventually at Heidelberg;
regarded the Church as a temporary institution which would decease as soon as it had fulfilled
its function by leavening society with the Christian spirit; he wrote several works, but the
greatest is entitled "Theological Ethics" (1799-1867).

ROTHERHAM (42), a flourishing town in Yorkshire, situated on the Don, 5 m. NE. of Sheffield;
its cruciform church is a splendid specimen of Perpendicular architecture; manufactures iron-ware,
chemicals, pottery, &c.

ROTHESAY (9), popular watering-place on the W. coast of Scotland, capital of Buteshire, charmingly
situated at the head of a fine hill-girt bay on the NE. side of the island of Bute, 19 m. SW.
of Greenock; has an excellent harbour, esplanade, &c.; Rothesay Castle is an interesting ruin;
is a great health and holiday resort.

ROTHSCHILD, MEYER AMSCHEL, the founder of the celebrated banking business, born at Frankfort-on-the-Main,
a Jew by birth; began his career as a money-lender and made a large fortune (1743-1812); left
five sons, who were all made barons of the Austrian empire--AMSELM VON R., eldest, head of
the house at Frankfort (1773-1855); SOLOMON VON R., the second, head of the Vienna house (1774-1855);
NATHAN VON R., the third, head of the London house (1777-1836); KARL VON R., the fourth, head
of the house at Naples (1755-1855); and JACOB VON R., the fifth, head of the Paris house (1792-1868).

ROTROU, JEAN DE, French poet, born at Dreux; was a contemporary of Corneille and a rival, wrote
a number of plays, almost all tragedies, on romantic and classical subjects, some of which
have kept the stage till now (1609-1650).

ROTTERDAM (223), the chief port and second city of Holland, situated at the junction of the
Rotte with the Maas, 19 m. from the North Sea and 45 m. SW. of Amsterdam; the town is cut in
many parts by handsome canals, which communicate with the river and serve to facilitate the
enormous foreign commerce; the quaint old houses, the stately public buildings, broad tree-lined
streets, canals alive with fleets of trim barges, combine to give the town a picturesque and
animated appearance. Boymans' Museum has a fine collection of Dutch and modern paintings, and
the Groote Kerk is a Gothic church of imposing appearance; there is also a large zoological
garden; shipbuilding, distilling, sugar-refining, machine and tobacco factories are the chief
industries.

ROTTI (60), a fertile hilly island in the Indian Archipelago, SW. of Timor, a Dutch possession.

ROUBAIX (115), a busy town in the department of Nord, N. of France; situated on a canal 6 m.
NE. of Lille; is of modern growth; actively engaged in the manufacture of all kinds of textiles,
in brewing, &c.

ROUBILLIAC, LOUIS FRANÇOIS, sculptor, born at Lyons; studied in Paris, came to London; executed
there statues of Shakespeare in the British Museum, Sir Isaac Newton at Cambridge, and Händel
at London (1693-1762).

ROUBLE, a silver coin of the value of 3s. 2d.; the unit of the Russian monetary system; a much
depreciated paper rouble is also in circulation; the rouble is divided into 100 copecks.

ROUEN (112), the ancient capital of Normandy, a busy manufacturing town on the Seine, 87 m.
NW of Paris; a good portion of the old, crowded, picturesque town has given place to more spacious
streets and dwellings; the old ramparts have been converted into handsome boulevards; has several
Gothic churches unrivalled in beauty, a cathedral (the seat of an archbishop), &c.; the river
affords an excellent waterway to the sea, and as a port Rouen ranks fourth in France; is famed
for its cotton and other textiles; Joan of Arc was burned here in 1431.

ROUGET DE LISLE, officer of the Engineers, born at Lons-le-Saulnier; immortalised himself as
the author of the "MARSEILLAISE" (q. v.); was thrown into prison by the extreme party at the
Revolution, but was released on the fall of Robespierre; fell into straitened circumstances,
but was pensioned by Louis Philippe (1760-1836).

ROUGE-ET-NOIR (i. e. red and black), a gambling game of chance with cards, so called because
it is played on a table marked with two red and two black diamond-shaped spots, and arranged
alternately in four different sections of the table.

ROUHER, EUGÈNE, French Bonapartist statesman, born at Riom, where he became a barrister; entered
the Constituent Assembly in 1848, and in the following year became Minister of Justice; was
more or less in office during the next 20 years; he became President of the Senate in 1869;
fled to England on the fall of the Empire; later on re-entered the National Assembly, and vigorously
defended the ex-emperor Napoleon III. (1814-1884).

ROULERS (20), a manufacturing town in West Flanders, 19 m. SW. of Bruges; engaged in manufacturing
cottons, lace, &c.; scene of a French victory over the Austrians in 1794.

ROULETTE, a game of chance, very popular in France last century, now at Monaco; played with
a revolving disc and a ball.

ROUMANIA (5,800), a kingdom of SE. Europe, wedged in between Russia (N.) and Bulgaria (S.),
with an eastern shore on the Black Sea; the Carpathians on the W. divide it from Austro-Hungary;
comprises the old principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia, which, long subject to Turkey,
united under one ruler in 1859, and received their independence in 1878, in which year the
province of Dobrudja was ceded by Russia; in 1881 the combined provinces were recognised as
a kingdom; forms a fertile and well-watered plain sloping N. to S., which grows immense quantities
of grain, the chief export; salt-mining and petroleum-making are also important industries;
the bulk of the people belong to the Greek Church; peasant proprietorship on a large scale
is a feature of the national life; government is vested in a hereditary limited monarch, a
council of ministers, a senate, and a chamber of deputies; BUCHAREST (q. v.) is the capital,
and GALATZ (q. v.) the chief port.

ROUMELIA, a former name for a district which embraced ancient Thrace and a portion of Macedonia;
the territory known as East Roumelia was incorporated with Bulgaria in 1885.

ROUND TABLE, THE, the name given to the knighthood of King Arthur: a larger, from including
as many as 150 knights; and a smaller, from including only 12 of the highest order.

ROUND TOWERS, ancient towers, found chiefly in Ireland, of a tall, round, more or less tapering
structure, divided into storeys, and with a conical top, erected in the neighbourhood of some
church or monastery, and presumably of Christian origin, and probably used as strongholds in
times of danger; of these there are 118 in Ireland, and three in Scotland--at Abernethy, Brechin,
and Eglishay (Orkney).

ROUNDHEADS, the name of contempt given by the Cavaliers to the Puritans or Parliamentary party
during the Civil War, on account of their wearing their hair close crept.

ROUS, FRANCIS, provost of Eton, born in Cornwall; sat in the Westminster Assembly, and was
the author of the metrical version of the Psalms, as used in Presbyterian churches (1579-1659).

ROUSSEAU, JEAN BAPTISTE, French lyric poet, born in Paris, the son of a shoemaker; gave offence
by certain lampoons ascribed to him which to the last he protested were forgeries, and was
banished; his satires were certainly superior to his lyrics, which were cold and formal; died
at Brussels in exile (1670-1741).

ROUSSEAU, JEAN JACQUES, a celebrated French philosopher, and one or the great prose writers
of French literature, born in Geneva, the son of a watchmaker and dancing-master; was apprenticed
to an engraver, whose inhuman treatment drove him at the age of 16 into running away; for three
years led a vagrant life, acting as footman, lackey, secretary, &c.; during this period was
converted to Catholicism largely through the efforts of Madame de Warens, a spritely married
lady living apart from her husband; in 1731 he took up residence in his patroness's house,
where he lived for nine years a life of ease and sentiment in the ambiguous capacity of general
factotum, and subsequently of lover; supplanted in the affections of his mistress, he took
himself off, and landed in Paris in 1741; supported himself by music-copying, an occupation
which was his steadiest means of livelihood throughout his troubled career; formed a liaison
with an illiterate dull servant-girl by whom he had five children, all of whom he callously
handed over to the foundling hospital; acquaintance with Diderot brought him work on the famous
Encyclopédie, but the true foundation of his literary fame was laid in 1749 by "A Discourse
on Arts and Sciences," in which he audaciously negatives the theory that morality has been
favoured by the progress of science and the arts; followed this up in 1753 by a "Discourse
on the Origin of Inequality," in which he makes a wholesale attack upon the cherished institutions
and ideals of society; morosely rejected the flattering advances of society, and from his retreat
at Montlouis issued "The New Héloïse" (1760), "The Social Contract" (1762), and "Émile" (1762);
these lifted him into the widest fame, but precipitated upon him the enmity and persecution
of Church (for his Deism) and State; fled to Switzerland, where after his aggressive "Letters
from the Mountains," he wandered about, the victim of his own suspicious, hypochondriacal nature;
found for some time a retreat in Staffordshire under the patronage of Hume; returned to France,
where his only persecutors were his own morbid hallucinations; died, not without suspicion
of suicide, at Ermenonville; his "Confessions" and other autobiographical writings, although
unreliable in facts, reflect his strange and wayward personality with wonderful truth; was
one of the precursive influences which brought on the revolutionary movement (1712-1778).

ROUSSEAU, PIERRE ÉTIENNE THÉODORE, an eminent French artist, born in Paris; at 19 exhibited
in the Salon; slowly won his way to the front as the greatest French landscape painter; in
1848 settled down in Barbizon, in the Forest of Fontainebleau, his favourite sketching ground;
his pictures (e. g. "The Alley of Chestnut Trees," "Early Summer Morning") fetch immense prices
now (1812-1867).

ROVEREDO (10), an Austrian town in the Tyrol, pleasantly situated on the Leno, in the Lägerthal;
is the centre of the Tyrolese silk trade.

ROW, JOHN, a Scottish reformer; graduated LL.D. in Padua; came over from the Catholic Church
in 1558, and two years later helped to compile the "First Book of Discipline"; settled as a
minister in Perth, and was four times Moderator of the General Assembly (1525-1580). His son,
John Row, was minister of Carnock, near Dunfermline, and author of an authoritative "History
of the Kirk of Scotland" (1568-1646).

ROWE, NICHOLAS, dramatist and poet-laureate, born at Barford, Bedfordshire; was trained for
the law, but took to literature, and made his mark as a dramatist, "The Fair Penitent," "Jane
Shore," &c., long maintaining their popularity; translated Lucan's "Pharsalia," which won Dr.
Johnson's commendation; edited Shakespeare; became poet-laureate in 1715; held some government
posts; was buried at Westminster Abbey (1674-1718).

ROWLANDSON, THOMAS, caricaturist, born in London; studied art in Paris; gambled and lived extravagantly;
led a roving life in England and Wales; displayed great versatility and strength in his artistic
work, e. g. in "Imitations of Modern Drawings," illustrations to Sterne's "Sentimental Journey,"
"Munchausen's Travels," &c.; ridiculed Napoleon in many cartoons (1756-1827).

ROWLEY REGIS (31), a flourishing town of Staffordshire, 3 m. SE. of Dudley; has large iron-works,
potteries, &c.

ROWTON HEATH, in the vicinity of Chester, scene of a great Parliamentary victory over the forces
of Charles I. in September 1645.

ROXBURGHSHIRE (54), in Border pastoral county of Scotland, between Berwick (NE.) and Dumfries
(SW.); the Cheviots form its southern boundary; lies almost wholly within the basin of the
Tweed, which winds along its northern border, receiving the Teviot, Jed, &c.; includes the
fine pastoral districts of Teviotdale and Liddesdale, where vast flocks of sheep are reared;
agriculture and woollen manufactures are important industries; Hawick is the largest town,
and Jedburgh the county town; near Kelso stood the royal castle and town of Roxburgh, which
gave its name to the county, destroyed in 1460.

ROYAL ACADEMY OF ARTS, in London; was instituted in 1768 by George III. as a result of a memorial
presented to him by 29 members who had seceded from "The Incorporated Society of Artists of
Great Britain" (founded 1765); for some years received grants from the privy purse, and was
provided with rooms in Somerset House; removed to Trafalgar Square in 1836, and to its present
quarters at Burlington House in 1869; receives now no public grant; holds yearly exhibitions,
and supports an art school; membership comprises 42 Royal Academicians, besides Associates.
The present President is Sir Edward John Poynter. The Royal Hibernian Academy (founded 1823)
and the Scottish Academy (1826) are similar institutions.

ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH, THE, was incorporated by royal charter in 1783 through the efforts
of Robertson the historian, and superseded the old Philosophical Society; held fortnightly
meetings (December till June) in the Royal Institution; receives a grant of £300; publishes
Transactions; has a membership of some 550, including foreign and British Fellows.

ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON, incorporated by royal charter in 1662, but owing its origin to the
informal meetings about 1645 of a group of scientific men headed by Theodore Haak, a German,
Dr. Wilkins, and others; in 1665 the first number of their Philosophical Transactions was published
which, with the supplementary publication, Proceedings of the Royal Society, begun in 1800,
constitute an invaluable record of the progress of science to the present day; encouragement
is given to scientific investigation by awards of medals (Copley, Davy, Darwin, &c.), the equipping
of scientific expeditions (e. g. the Challenger), &c.; weekly meetings are held at Burlington
House (quarters since 1857) during the session (November till June); membership comprises some
500 Fellows, including 40 foreigners; receives a parliamentary grant of £4000 a year, and acts
in an informal way as scientific adviser to Government.

ROYAN (6), a pretty seaside town of France, on the estuary of the Gironde, 60 m. NW. of Bordeaux;
trebles its population in the summer.

ROYER-COLLARD, PIERRE PAUL, politician and philosopher, born at Sompuis; called to the Paris
bar at 20; supported the Revolution, but refused to follow the Jacobins, and during the Reign
of Terror sought shelter in his native town; was elected to the Council of the Five Hundred
in 1797, retired in 1804, and betook himself to philosophic studies; became professor of Philosophy
in Paris 1811, and exercised great influence; re-entered political life in 1815, and was actively
engaged in administrative work till his retirement in 1842; was all through his life a doctrinaire
and rather unpractical (1763-1842).

ROYTON (13), a busy cotton town in Lancashire, 2 m. NW. of Oldham.

RUABON (18), a mining town in Denbighshire, 4½ m. SW. of Wrexham; has collieries and iron-works.

RUBENS, PETER PAUL, the greatest of the Flemish painters, born at Siegen, in Westphalia; came
with his widowed mother in 1587 to Antwerp, where he sedulously cultivated the painter's art,
and early revealed his masterly gift of colouring; went to Italy, and for a number of years
was in the service of the Duke of Mantua, who encouraged him in his art, and employed him on
a diplomatic mission to Philip III. of Spain; executed at Madrid some of his finest portraits;
returned to Antwerp in 1609; completed in 1614 his masterpiece, "The Descent from the Cross,"
in Antwerp Cathedral; with the aid of assistants he painted the series of 21 pictures, now
in the Louvre, illustrating the principal events in the life of Maria de' Medici during 1628-1629;
diplomatic missions engaged him at the Spanish and English Courts, where his superabundant
energy enabled him to execute many paintings for Charles I.--e. g. "War and Peace," in the
National Gallery--and Philip IV.; was knighted by both; in all that pertains to chiaroscuro,
colouring, and general technical skill Rubens is unsurpassed, and in expressing particularly
the "tumult and energy of human action," but he falls below the great Italian artists in the
presentation of the deeper and sublimer human emotions; was a scholarly, refined man, an excellent
linguist, and a successful diplomatist; was twice married; died at Antwerp, and was buried
in the Church of St. Jacques; his tercentenary was celebrated in 1877 (1577-1640).

RUBICON, a famous river of Italy, associated with Julius Cæsar, now identified with the modern
Fiumecino, a mountain torrent which springs out of the eastern flank of the Apennines and enters
the Adriatic N. of Ariminum; marked the boundary line between Roman Italy and Cisalpine Gaul,
a province administered by Cæsar; when he crossed it in 49 B.C. it was tantamount to a declaration
of war against the Republic, hence the expression "to cross the Rubicon" is applied to the
decisive step in any adventurous undertaking.

RUBINSTEIN, ANTON, a famous Russian pianist and composer, born, of Jewish parents, near Jassy,
in Moldavia; studied at Moscow, under Liszt in Paris, and afterwards at Berlin and Vienna;
established himself at St. Petersburg in 1848 as a music-teacher; became director of the Conservatoire
there; toured for many years through Europe and the United States, achieving phenomenal success;
resumed his directorship at St. Petersburg in 1887; composed operas (e. g. "The Maccabees,"
"The Demon"), symphonies (e. g. "Ocean"), sacred operas (e. g. "Paradise Lost"), chamber music,
and many exquisite songs; as a pianist he was a master of technique and expression; was ennobled
by the Czar in 1869; published an autobiography; his works as well as his performances display
both vigour and sensibility (1829-1894).

RUBRICS, a name, as printed originally in red ink, applied to the rules and instructions given
in the liturgy of the Prayer-Book for regulating the conduct of divine service, hence applied
in a wider significance to any fixed ecclesiastical or other injunction or order; was used
to designate the headings or title of chapters of certain old law-books and MSS., formerly
but not now necessarily printed in red characters.

RUBY, a gem which in value and hardness ranks next to the diamond; is dichroic, of greater
specific gravity than any other gem, and belongs to the hexagonal system of crystals; is a
pellucid, ruddy-tinted stone, and, like the sapphire, a variety of corundum, also found (but
rarely) in violet, pink, and purple tints; the finest specimens come from Upper Burmah; these
are the true Oriental rubies, and when above 5 carats exceed in value, weight for weight, diamonds;
the Spinel ruby is the commoner jeweller's stone; is of much less value, specific gravity and
hardness, non-dichroic, and forms a cubical crystal.

RÜCKERT, FRIEDRICH, German poet, born at Schweinfurt, in Bavaria; at Würzburg University showed
his talent for languages, and early devoted himself to philology and poetry; was for 15 years
professor of Oriental Languages at Erlangen; introduced German readers, by excellent translations,
to Eastern poetry; filled for some time the chair of Oriental Languages in Berlin; takes rank
as a lyrist of no mean powers; essayed unsuccessfully dramatic composition (1788-1866).

RUDDIMAN, THOMAS, author of a well-known Latin grammar, a Banffshire man, and graduate of Aberdeen
University; was school-mastering at Laurencekirk, where his scholarly attainments won him an
assistantship in the Advocates' Library, Edinburgh; spent a busy life in that; city in scholarly
occupation, editing many learned works, the most notable being Buchanan's works and the "immaculate"
edition of Livy; his famous Latin grammar was completed in 1732; in 1730 became principal keeper
of the Advocates' Library (1674-1757).

RUDOLF I., of the House of Hapsburg, founder of the Austrian dynasty; born, the son of a count,
at Schloss Limburg (Breisgau); greatly increased his father's domain by marriage, inheritance,
and conquest, becoming the most powerful prince in S. Germany; acquired a remarkable ascendency
among the German princes, and was elevated to the imperial throne in 1273, and by friendly
concessions to the Pope, Gregory IX., terminated the long struggle between the Church and the
empire; shattered the opposition of Ottocar, king of Bohemia, and brought peace and order to
Germany (1218-1291).

RUDOLF II., German Emperor, son of Maximilian II., born at Vienna; became king of Hungary in
1573, and of Bohemia three years later; ascended the imperial throne in 1576; indolent and
incapable, he left the empire to the care of worthless ministers; disorder and foreign invasion
speedily followed; persecution inflamed the Protestants; by 1611 his brother Matthias, supported
by other kinsmen, had wrested Hungary and Bohemia from him; had a taste for astrology and alchemy,
and patronised Kepler and Tycho Brahé (1552-1612).

RUDOLF LAKE, in British East Africa, close to the highlands of S. Ethiopia, practically an
inland sea, being 160 m. long and 20 broad, and brackish in taste; discovered in 1888.

RUDRA, in the Hindu mythology the old deity of the storm, and father of the Marutz.

RUGBY (11), a town in Warwickshire, at the junction of the Swift and the Avon, 83 m. NW. of
London; an important railway centre and seat of a famous public school founded in 1567, of
which DR. ARNOLD (q. v.), and Archbishops Tait and Temple were famous head-masters, is one
of the first public schools in England, and scholars number about 450.

RUGE, ARNOLD, a German philosophical and political writer, born at Bergen (Rügen); showed a
philosophic bent at Jena; was implicated in the political schemes of the BURSCHENSCHAFT (q.
v.), and was imprisoned for six years; taught for some years in Halle University, but got into
trouble through the radical tone of his writings in the Halle Review (founded by himself and
another), and went to Paris; was prominent during the political agitation of 1848, and subsequently
sought refuge in London, where for a short time he acted in consort with Mazzini and others;
retired to Brighton, and ultimately received a pension from the Prussian Government; his numerous
plays, novels, translations, &c., including a lengthy autobiography, reveal a mind scarcely
gifted enough to grasp firmly and deeply the complicated problems of sociology and politics;
is characterised by Dr. Stirling as the "bold and brilliant Ruge"; began, he says, as an expounder
of Hegel, and "finished off as translator into German of that 'hollow make-believe of windy
conceit,' he calls it, Buckle's 'Civilisation in England'" (1802-1880).

RÜGEN (45), a deeply-indented island of Germany, in the Baltic, separated from the Pomeranian
coast by a channel (Strela Sund) about a mile broad; the soil is fertile, and fishing is actively
engaged in. Bergen (4) is the capital.

RUHR, an affluent of the Rhine, which joins it at Ruhrort after a course of 142 m.; navigable
to craft conveying the product of the coal-mines to the Rhine.

RULE OF FAITH, the name given to the ultimate authority or standard in religious belief, such
as the Bible alone, as among Protestants; the Bible and the Church, as among Romanists; reason
alone, as among rationalists; the inner light of the spirit, as among mystics.

RUM, a mountainous, forest-clad island in one of the Inner Hebrides, lies 15 m. off Ardnamurchan
Point; a handful of inhabitants cultivate a very small portion of it; the rest is mountain,
wood, and moorland; forms a deer-forest.

RUMFORD, COUNT, Benjamin Thompson, soldier, philanthropist, and physicist, born at Woburn,
Massachusetts; a fortunate marriage lifted him into affluence, relieving him from the necessity
of teaching; fought on the British side during the American War; became a lieutenant-colonel,
and for important services was knighted in 1782 on his return to England; entered the Bavarian
service, and carried through a series of remarkable reforms, such as the suppression of mendicity,
the amelioration of the poorer classes by the spread of useful knowledge, culinary, agricultural,
&c.; was made a Count of the Holy Roman Empire, and placed in charge of the War Department
of Bavaria; was a generous patron of science in England and elsewhere; retired from the Bavarian
service in 1799, and five years later married the widow of Lavoisier the chemist; his later
years were spent in retirement in a village near Paris, where he devoted himself to physical
research, especially as regards heat (1753-1814).

RUMP, THE, name of contempt given to the remnant of the Long Parliament in 1659.

RUNCORN (20), a flourishing river-port of Cheshire, on the Mersey, 12 m. SE. of Liverpool,
at the terminus of the Bridgewater Canal; is an old place dating back to the 10th century;
has excellent docks; industries embrace shipbuilding, iron-founding, &c.

RUNEBERG, JOHAN LUDWIG, the national poet of Finland, born at Jacobstad; educated at, and afterwards
lectured in, the university of Abo; published his first volume, "Lyric Poems," in 1830; edited
a bi-weekly paper; for forty years (till his death) was Reader of Roman Literature in the College
of Borga; his epic idylls, "The Elk Hunters," "Christmas Eve," his epic "King Fjalar," &c.,
are the finest poems in the Swedish language; are characterised by a repose, simplicity, and
artistic finish, yet have withal the warmth of national life in them (1804-1877).

RUNES, a name given to the letters of the alphabet by heathen Teutonic tribes prior to their
coming under the influence of Roman civilisation; are formed almost invariably of straight
lines, and scarcely exist except in inscriptions dating back to A.D. 1; found chiefly in Scandinavia,
also in Britain. There are three runic alphabets (much alike), the oldest being the Gothic
of 24 letters or runes. They are now believed to have first come into use among the Goths in
the 6th century B.C., and to be a modified form of the old Greek alphabet introduced by traders.

RUNNIMEDE, a meadow on the right bank of the Thames, 36 m. SW. of London, where King John signed
the Magna Charta, 15th June 1215.

RUPEE, a silver coin, the monetary unit of India, whose face value is 2s., but which, owing
to the depreciation of silver, is now valued in outside markets at about 1s. 2½d.; a lac of
rupees equals 100,000.

RUPERT, PRINCE, son of Frederick V., Elector Palatine, and grandson of James I. of England;
received an excellent education; took part in the Thirty Years' War, and suffered three years'
imprisonment at Linz; in England, at the outbreak of the Great Rebellion, he was entrusted
with a command by Charles I., and by his dash and daring greatly heartened the Royalist cause,
taking an active part in all the great battles; finally surrendered to Fairfax at Oxford in
1646; but two years later took command of the Royalist ships and kept up a gallant struggle
till his defeat by Blake in 1651; escaped to the West Indies, where he kept up a privateering
attack upon English merchantmen; came in for many honours after the Restoration, and distinguished
himself in the Dutch War; the closing years of his life were quietly spent in scientific research
(physical, chemical, mechanical), for which he had a distinct aptitude (1619-1682).

RUPERT'S LAND, a name given by Prince Rupert to territory the drainage of which flows into
Hudson Bay or Strait.

RUSH, BENJAMIN, a noted American physician and professor, born at Byberry, near Philadelphia;
studied medicine at Princeton and Edinburgh; became professor of chemistry at Philadelphia
in 1769; sat in Congress, and signed the Declaration of Independence (1776); held important
medical posts in the army; resigned, and assumed medical professorship in Philadelphia; won
a European reputation as a lecturer, philanthropist, and medical investigator; published several
treatises, and from 1799 acted as treasurer of the U.S. Mint (1745-1813).

RUSHWORTH, JOHN, historian and politician, born at Warkworth, Northumberland; although a barrister
he never practised, but set himself to compile elaborate notes of proceedings at the Star Chamber
and other courts, which grew into an invaluable work of 7 vols., entitled "Historical Collections";
acted as assistant-clerk to the Long Parliament; sat as a member in several Parliaments, and
was for some years secretary to Fairfax and the Lord-Keeper; fell into disfavour after the
Restoration, and in 1684 was arrested for debt and died in prison; is an authority whom Carlyle
abuses as a Dry-as-dust (1607-1690).

RUSKIN, JOHN, art-critic and social reformer, born in London, son of an honourable and a successful
wine-merchant; educated with some severity at home under the eye of his parents, and particularly
his mother, who trained him well into familiarity with the Bible, and did not object to his
study of "Robinson Crusoe" along with the "Pilgrim's Progress" on Sundays, while, left to his
own choice he read Homer, Scott, and Byron on week days; entered Christ's Church, Oxford, as
a gentleman Commoner in 1837, gained the Newdigate Prize in 1839, produced in 1843, under the
name of "A Graduate of Oxford," the first volume of "Modern Painters," mainly in defence of
the painter Turner and his art, which soon extended to five considerable volumes, and in 1849
"The Seven Lamps of Architecture," in definition of the qualities of good art in that line,
under the heads of the Lamps of Sacrifice, of Truth, of Power, of Beauty, of Life, of Memory,
and Obedience, pleading in particular for the Gothic style; these were followed in 1851 by
"PRE-RAPHAELITISM" (q. v.), and 1851-53 by the "Stones of Venice," in further exposition of
his views in the "Seven Lamps," and others on the same and kindred arts. Not till 1862 did
he appear in the rôle of social reformer, and that was by the publication of "Unto this Last,"
in the Cornhill Magazine, on the first principles of political economy, the doctrines in which
were further expounded in "Munera Pulveris," "Time and Tide," and "FORS CLAVIGERA" (q. v.),
the principles in which he endeavoured to give practical effect to by the Institution of St.
George's Guild, with the view of commending "the rational organisation of country life independent
of that of cities." His writings are numerous, several of them originally lectures, and nearly
all on matters of vital account, besides many others on subjects equally so which he began,
but has had, to the grief of his admirers, to leave unfinished from failing health, among these
his "Præterita," or memories from his past life. The most popular of his recent writings is
"Sesame and Lilies," with perhaps the "Crown of Wild Olive," and the most useful that of the
series beginning with "Unto this Last," and culminating in "Time and Tide." He began his career
as an admirer of Turner, and finished as a disciple of Thomas Carlyle, but neither slavishly
nor with the surrender of his own sense of justice and truth; Justice is the goddess he worships,
and except in her return to the earth as sovereign he bodes nothing but disaster to the fortunes
of the race; his despair of seeing this seems to have unhinged him, and he is now in a state
of fatal collapse; his contemporaries praised his style of writing, but to his disgust they
did not believe a word he said; he sits sadly in these days at Brantwood, in utter apathy to
everything of passing interest, and if he thinks or speaks at all it would seem his sense of
the injustice in things, and the doom it is under, is not yet utterly dead--his sun has not
even yet gone down upon his wrath; the keynote of his wrath was, Men do the work of this world
and rogues take the pay, selling for money what God has given for nothing, or what others have
purchased by their life's blood; b. 1819. He died 20th January 1900.

RUSSELL, JOHN, EARL, known best as LORD JOHN RUSSELL, statesman, youngest son of the Earl of
Bedford; travelled in Spain, studied at Edinburgh, entered Parliament in 1813, took up vigorously
the cause of parliamentary reform and Catholic Emancipation, joined Earl Grey's ministry in
1830 as Paymaster of the Forces, framed and zealously advocated the Reform Bill (1832), drove
Peel from office in 1835, and became, under Lord Melbourne, Home Secretary and leader of the
Commons; four years later he was appointed Colonial Secretary, warmly espoused the cause of
repeal of the Corn Laws, formed a Ministry on the downfall of Peel in 1846, and dealt with
Irish difficulties and Chartism; resigned in 1852, and in the same year became Foreign Secretary
under Aberdeen, became unpopular on account of his management of the Crimean War (1855) and
conduct at the Vienna Conference; again Foreign Secretary in Palmerston's ministry of 1859,
an earl in 1861, and premier a second time in 1865-66; author of various pamphlets, biographies,
memoirs, &c.; was twice married; was nicknamed "Finality John" from his regarding his Reform
Bill of 1832 as a final measure (1792-1878).

RUSSELL, WILLIAM, LORD, prominent politician in Charles II.'s reign, younger son of the Earl
of Bedford; entered the first Restoration Parliament, became a prominent leader in the Country
Party in opposition to the CABAL (q. v.) and the Popish schemes of the king; vigorously supported
the Exclusion Bill to keep James, Duke of York from the throne in 1683; was charged with complicity
in the Rye-house Plot, was found guilty on trumped-up evidence, and beheaded (1639-1683).

RUSSELL, WILLIAM CLARK, a popular writer of nautical novels, born in New York; gained his experience
of sea life during eight years' service as a sailor; was a journalist on the staff of the Daily
Chronicle before, in 1887, he took to writing novels, which include "John Holdsworth," "The
Wreck of the 'Grosvenor,'" &c.; b. 1844.

RUSSELL, SIR WILLIAM HOWARD, a celebrated war correspondent, born near Dublin; was educated
at Trinity College, called to the English bar in 1850, had already acted for some years as
war correspondent for the Times before his famous letters descriptive of the Crimean War won
him a wide celebrity; subsequently acted as correspondent during the Indian Mutiny, American
Civil War, Franco-German War, &c.; accompanied the Prince of Wales to India in 1875; knighted
in 1895; b. 1821.

RUSSELL OF KILLOWEN, CHARLES RUSSELL, LORD, a distinguished lawyer, born at Newry; educated
at Trinity College, Dublin, called to the English bar in 1859, entered Parliament in 1880,
became Attorney-General in 1886, receiving also a knighthood; in 1894 was elevated to the Lord
Chief-Justiceship and created a life-peer; b. 1832.

RUSSIA (117,562), next to the British empire the most extensive empire in the world, embracing
one-sixth of the land-surface of the globe, including one-half of Europe, all Northern and
a part of Central Asia; on the N. it fronts the Arctic Ocean from Sweden to the NE. extremity
of Asia; its southern limit forms an irregular line from the NW. corner of the Black Sea to
the Sea of Japan, skirting Turkey, Persia, Afghanistan, East Turkestan, and the Chinese empire;
Behring Sea, Sea of Okhotsk, and the Sea of Japan wash its eastern shores; Sweden, the Baltic,
Germany, and Austria lie contiguous to it in West Europe. This solid, compact mass is thinly
peopled (13 to the sq. m. over all) by some 40 different-speaking races, including, besides
the dominant Russians (themselves split into three branches), Poles, Finns, Esthonians, Servians,
Bulgarians, Lithuanians, Kurds, Persians, Turco-Tartars, Mongols, &c. Three-fourths of the
land-surface, with one-fourth of the population, lies in Asia, and is treated under Siberia,
Turkestan, Caucasia, &c. Russia in Europe, embracing FINLAND and POLAND (q. v.), is divided
from Asia by the Ural Mountains and River and Caspian Sea; forms an irregular, somewhat elongated,
square plain sloping down to the low and dreary coast-lands of the Baltic (W.), White Sea (N.),
and Black Sea (S.); is seamed by river valleys and diversified by marshes, vast lakes (e. g.
Ladoga, Onega, Peipus, and Ilmen), enormous forests, and in the N. and centre by tablelands,
the highest of which being the Valdai Hills (1100 ft.); the SE. plain is called the STEPPES
(q. v.). The cold and warm winds which sweep uninterrupted from N. and S. produce extremes
of temperature; the rainfall is small. Agriculture is the prevailing industry, engaging 90
per cent. of the people, although in all not more than 21 per cent. of the soil is cultivated;
rye is the chief article of food for the peasantry, who comprise four-fifths of the population.
The rich plains, known as the "black lands" from their deep, loamy soil, which stretch from
the Carpathians to the Urals, are the most productive corn-lands in Europe, and rival in fertility
the "yellow lands" of China, and like them need no manure. Timber is an important industry
in the NW., and maize and the vine are cultivated in the extreme S.; minerals abound, and include
gold, iron (widely distributed), copper (chiefly in middle Urals), and platinum; there are
several large coal-fields and rich petroleum wells at Baku. The fisheries, particularly those
of the Caspian, are the most productive in Europe. Immense numbers of horses and cattle are
reared, e. g. on the Steppes. Wolves, bears, and valuable fur-bearing animals are plentiful
in the N. and other parts; the reindeer is still found, also the elk. Want of ports on the
Mediterranean and Atlantic hamper commerce, while the great ports in the Baltic are frozen
up four or five months in the year; the southern ports are growing in importance, and wheat,
timber, flax, and wool are largely exported. There is a vast inland trade, facilitated by the
great rivers (Volga, Don, Dnieper, Dniester, Vistula, &c.) and by excellent railway and telegraphic
communication. Among its varied races there exists a wide variety of religions--Christianity,
Mohammedanism, Buddhism, Shamanism, &c.; but although some 130 sects exist, the bulk of the
Russians proper belong to the Greek Church. Education is backward, more than 85 per cent. of
the people being illiterate; there are eight universities. Conscription is enforced; the army
is the largest in the world. Government is an absolute monarchy, save in FINLAND (q. v.); the
ultimate legislative and executive power is in the hands of the czar, but there is a State
Council of 60 members nominated by the czar. In the 50 departments a good deal of local self-government
is enjoyed through the village communes and their public assemblies, but the imperial power
as represented by the police and military is felt in all parts, while governors of departments
have wide and ill-defined powers which admit of abuse. The great builders of the empire, the
beginnings of which are to be sought in the 9th century, have been Ivan the Great, who in the
15th century drove out the Mongols and established his capital as Moscow; Ivan the Terrible,
the first of the czars, who in the 16th century pushed into Asia and down to the Black Sea;
and PETER THE GREAT (q. v.). Its restless energies are still unabated, and inspire a persistently
aggressive policy in the Far East. Within recent years its literature has become popular in
Europe through the powerful writings of Pushkin, Turgenief, and Tolstoi.

RUSTCHUK (27), a town in Bulgaria, on the Danube, 40 m. S. by W. of Bucharest; manufactures
gold and silver ware, shoes, cloth, &c.; has a number of interesting mosques; its once important
fortifications were reduced in 1877.

RUTEBEUF or RUSTEBEUF, a celebrated trouvère of the 13th century, of whom little is known save
that he led a Bohemian life in Paris and was unfortunate in his marriage; his songs, satires,
&c., are vigorous and full of colour, and touch a note of seriousness at times which one hardly
anticipates.

RUTHENIANS, a hardy Slavonic people, a branch of the Little Russian stock, numbering close
upon 3½ millions, dwelling in Galicia and Northern Hungary.

RUTHERFORD, SAMUEL, a Scottish divine, born at Nisbet, near Jedburgh; studied at Edinburgh
University, became professor of Humanity, but had to resign; studied divinity, and became minister
of Anworth in 1627, and was a zealous pastor and a fervid preacher; corresponded far and wide
with pious friends by letters afterwards published under his name, and much esteemed by pious
people; became at length professor of Divinity at St. Andrews, and represented the Scottish
Church in the Westminster Assembly in 1643; wrote several works, for one of which he was called
to account, but had to answer a summons on his deathbed before a higher bar (1600-1661).

RUTHERGLEN (13), a town of Lanarkshire, on the Clyde, 3 m. SE. of Glasgow, of which it is practically
a suburb; a handsome bridge spans the river; has been a royal burgh since 1126, and has interesting
historical associations.

RUTHIN (3), an interesting old town of Denbighshire, on the Clwyd, 8 m. SE. of Denbigh.

RUTHVEN, RAID OF, a conspiracy entered into by certain Scottish nobles, headed by William,
first Earl of Gowrie, to seize the young king James VI., and break down the influence of his
worthless favourites, Lennox and Arran; at Ruthven Castle, or Huntingtower, in Perthshire,
on 23rd August 1582, the king was captured and held for 10 months; Arran was imprisoned, and
Lennox fled, to die in France; the conduct of the conspirators was applauded by the country,
but after the escape of the king from St. Andrews Castle the conspirators were proclaimed guilty
of treason, and Gowrie was ultimately executed.

RUTHWELL CROSS, a remarkable sandstone cross, 17¾ ft. high, found in Ruthwell parish, 9 m.
SE. of Dumfries; dates back to the 7th century; bears runic and Latin inscriptions, notably
some verses of the Saxon poem, "The Dream of the Holy Rood"; was broken down in 1642 by the
Covenanters as savouring of idolatry; found and re-erected in 1802.

RUTLAND (21), the smallest county of England, bounded by Lincoln, Northampton, and Leicester;
has a pleasant undulating surface, with valleys in the E., and extensive woods; is watered
by the Welland; is largely pastoral, and raises fine sheep; dairy produce (especially cheese)
and wheat are noted; Oakham is the capital.

RUYSDAEL, JACOB, a famous Dutch landscape-painter, born and died at Haarlem; few particulars
of his life are known; his best pictures, to be seen in the galleries of Dresden, Berlin, Paris,
&c., display a fine poetic spirit (1628-1682).

RUYTER, MICHAEL DE, a famous Dutch admiral, born of poor parents at Flushing; from a boy of
11 served in the merchant and naval service; commanded a ship under Van Tromp in the war with
England 1652-1654; was ennobled in 1660 by the king of Denmark for services rendered in the
Dano-Swedish war; for two years fought against Turkish pirates in the Mediterranean; commanded
the Dutch fleet in the second war against England, and in 1667 struck terror into London by
appearing and burning the shipping in the Thames; held his own against England and France in
the war of 1672; co-operated with Spain against France; was routed and mortally wounded off
the coast of Sicily; a man of sterling worth (1607-1675).

RYAN, LOCH, an arm of the sea penetrating Wigtownshire in a south-easterly direction, 8 m.
long and from 1½ to 3 broad; at its landward end is STRANRAER (q. v.); forms an excellent anchorage.

RYBINSK (20, 100 in the summer), a busy commercial town in Russia, on the Volga, 48 m. NW.
of Yaroslav; connected by canal with St. Petersburg; industries embrace boat-building, brewing,
distilling, &c.

RYDE (11), a popular old watering-place on the NE. coast of the Isle of Wight, 4½ m. SW. of
Portsmouth; rises in pretty wooded terraces from the sea; has a fine promenade, park, pier, &c.

RYE (4), an interesting old port in the SE. corner of Sussex, situated on rising ground flanked
by two streams, 63 m. SE. from London, one of the CINQUE PORTS (q. v.); the retiral of the
sea has left it now 2 m. inland; has a fine Norman and Early English church.

RYE HOUSE PLOT, an abortive conspiracy in 1683 to assassinate Charles II. of England and his
brother James, Duke of York, planned by Colonel Rumsey, Lieutenant-Colonel Walcot, the "plotter"
Ferguson, and other reckless adherents of the Whig party. The conspirators were to conceal
themselves at a farmhouse called Rye House, near Hertford, and to waylay the royal party returning
from Newmarket; the plot miscarried owing to the king leaving Newmarket sooner than was expected;
the chief conspirators were executed.

RYMER, THOMAS, the learned editor of the "Foedera," an invaluable collection of historical
documents dealing with England's relations with foreign powers, born at Northallerton; was
a Cambridge man and a barrister; turned to literature and wrote much both in prose and poetry,
but to no great purpose; was Historiographer-royal; Macaulay in characteristic fashion calls
him "the worst critic that ever lived"; but his "Foedera" is an enduring monument to his unwearied
industry (1639-1714).

RYSBRACH, MICHAEL, a well-known sculptor in the 18th century, born at Antwerp; established
himself in London and executed busts and statues of the most prominent men of his day, including
the monument to Sir Isaac Newton in Westminster Abbey, statue of Marlborough, busts of Walpole,
Bolingbroke, Pope, &c. (1694-1770).

RYSWICK, PEACE OF, signed on October 30, 1697, at the village of Ryswick, 2 m. S. of The Hague,
by England, Holland, Germany, and Spain on the one hand and France on the other, terminating
the sanguinary struggle which had begun In 1688; it lasted till 1702.

S

SAADI. See SÁDI.

SAALE, the name of several German rivers, the most important of which rises in the Fichtelgebirge,
near Zell, in Upper Bavaria; flows northward, a course of 226 m., till it joins the Elbe at
Barby; has numerous towns on its banks, including Jena, Halle, and Naumburg, to which last
it is navigable.

SAARBRÜCK (10), a manufacturing town in Rhenish Prussia, on the French frontier, where the
French under Napoleon III. repulsed the Germans, August 2, 1870.

SABADELL (18), a prosperous Spanish town, 14 m. NW. of Barcelona; manufactures cotton and woollen
textiles.

SABÆANS, a trading people who before the days of Solomon and for long after inhabited South
Arabia, on the shores of the Bed Sea, and who worshipped the sun and moon with other kindred
deities; also a religious sect on the Lower Euphrates, with Jewish, Moslem, and Christian rites
as well as pagan, called Christians of St. John; the term Sabæanism designates the worship
of the former.

SABAOTH, name given in the Bible, and particularly in the Epistle of James, to the Divine Being
as the Lord of all hosts or kinds of creatures.

SABATHAI, LEVI, a Jewish impostor, who gave himself out to be the Messiah and persuaded a number
of Jews to forsake all and follow him; the sultan of Turkey forced him to confess the imposture,
and he turned Mussulman to save his life (1625-1676).

SABBATH, the seventh day of the week, observed by the Jews as a day of "rest" from all work
and "holy to the Lord," as His day, specially in commemoration of His rest from the work of
creation, the observance of which by the Christian Church has been transferred to the first
of the week in commemoration of Christ's resurrection.

SABELLIANISM, the doctrine of one Sabellius, who, in the third century, denied that there were
three persons in the Godhead, and maintained that there was only one person in three functions,
aspects, or manifestations, at least this was the form his doctrine assumed in course of time,
which is now called by his name, and is accepted by many in the present day.

SABIANISM. See SABÆANS.

SABINE, a river of Texas which, rising in the extreme N. of the State, flows SE. and S., forming
for 250 m. the boundary between Louisiana and Texas, passes through Sabine Lake into the Gulf
of Mexico after a navigable course of 500 in.

SABINE, SIR EDWARD, a noted physicist, born in Dublin; served in artillery in 1803, maintained
his connection with it till his retirement in 1874 as general, but owes his celebrity to his
important investigations into the nature of terrestrial magnetism; accompanied as a scientist
Boss and Parry in their search for the North-West Passage (1819-20); was President both of
the Royal Society from 1861 to 1879 and of the British Association in 1853 (1788-1883).

SABINES, an ancient Italian people of the Aryan stock, near neighbours of ancient Borne, a
colony of whom is said to have settled on the Quirinal, and contributed to form the moral part
of the Roman people. Numa, the second king of the city, was a Sabine. See ROMULUS.

SABLE ISLAND, a low, sandy, barren island in the Atlantic, 110 m. off the E. coast of Nova
Scotia; is extremely dangerous to navigation, and is marked by three lighthouses; is gradually
being washed away.

SABOTS, a species of wooden shoes extensively worn by the peasants of France, Belgium, &c.;
each shoe is hollowed out of a single block of wood (fir, willow, beech, and ash); well adapted
for marshy districts.

SACERDOTALISM, a tendency to attach undue importance to the order and the ministry of priests,
to the limitation of the operation of Divine grace.

SACHEVEREL, HENRY, an English Church clergyman, born at Maryborough, who became notorious in
the reign of Queen Anne for his embittered attack (contained in two sermons in 1700) on the
Revolution Settlement and the Act of Toleration; public feeling was turning in favour of the
Tories, and the impolitic impeachment of Sacheverel by the Whig Government fanned popular feeling
to a great height in his favour; was suspended from preaching for three years, at the expiry
of which time the Tories, then in power, received him with ostentatious marks of favour; was
soon forgotten; was an Oxford graduate, and a friend of Addison; a man of no real ability (1672-1724).

SACHS, HANS, a noted early German poet, born at Nürnberg; the son of a tailor, by trade a shoemaker;
learned "the mystery of song" from a weaver; was a contemporary of Luther, who acknowledged
his services in the cause of the Reformation; in his seventy-fourth year (1568), on examining
his stock for publication, found that he had written 6048 poetical pieces, among them 208 tragedies
and comedies, and this besides having all along kept house, like an honest Nürnberg burgher,
by assiduous and sufficient shoemaking; a man standing on his own basis; wrote "Narrenschneiden,"
a piece in which the doctor cures a bloated and lethargic patient by "cutting out half-a-dozen
fools from his interior"; he sunk into oblivion during the 17th century, but his memory was
revived by Goethe in the 18th (1494-1576).

SACHS, JULIUS, a German botanist and professor, born at Breslau; has written several works
on botany, and experimented on the physiology of plants; b. 1832.

SACKVILLE, THOMAS, EARL OF DORSET, poet and statesman, born at Buckhurst; bred for the bar;
entered Parliament in 1558; wrote with Thomas Norton a tragedy called "Gorboduc," contributed
to a collection of British legends called the "Mirror of Magistrates" two pieces in noble verse
(1536-1608).

SACRAMENT, a ceremonial observance in the Christian Church divinely instituted as either really
or symbolically a means, and in any case a pledge, of grace.

SACRAMENTARIAN, a High Churchman who attaches a special sacred virtue to the sacraments of
the Church.

SACRAMENTO, largest river of California, rises in the NE. in the Sierra Nevada; follows a south-westerly
course, draining the central valley of California; falls into Suisund Bay, on the Pacific coast,
after a course of 500 miles, of which 250 are navigable.

SACRAMENTO (29), capital of California, situated at the confluence of the Sacramento and American
Rivers, 90 m. NE. of San Francisco; industries embrace flour and planing mills, foundries,
potteries, &c.; has an art gallery, court-house, &c.; the tropical climate is tempered at night
by cool sea breezes.

SACRED WARS. See AMPHICTYONIC COUNCIL.

SACRIFICE, anything of value given away to secure the possession of something of still higher
value, and which is the greater and more meritorious the costlier the gift.

SACRING-BELL, or SANCTUS-BELL, the bell which rings when the Host is elevated at the celebration
of High Mass.

SACY, ANTOINE ISAAC, BARON SILVESTRE DE, the greatest of modern Orientalists, born at Paris;
by twenty-three was a master of classic, Oriental, and modern European languages; was appointed
in 1795 professor of Arabic in the School of Oriental Languages, and in 1806 of Persian in
the College de France, besides which he held various other appointments; founded the Asiatic
Society in 1822; was created a baron by Napoleon Bonaparte, and entered the Chamber of Peers
in 1832; published "Biographies of Persian Poets," a standard Arabic grammar, &c.; his writings
gave a stimulus to Oriental research throughout Europe (1758-1838).

SADDA, the name given to a Persian epitome of the Zend-Avesta.

SADDUCEES, a sect of the Jews of high priestly origin that first came into prominence by their
opposition to the Pharisees, being the party in power when Pharisaism arose in protestation
against their policy as tending to the secularisation of the Jewish faith, or the prostitution
of it to mere secular ends. They represented the Tory or Conservative party among the Jews,
as the Pharisees did the High Church party among us. The antagonism which thus arose on political
grounds gradually extended to religious matters. In regard to religion they were the old orthodox
party, and acknowledged the obligation of only the written law, and refused to accept tradition
at the hands of the Scribes. They denied the immortality of the soul, the separate existence
of spirits, and this they did on strictly Old Testament grounds, but this not from any real
respect for the authority of Scripture, only as in accord with the main article of their creed,
which attached importance only to what bears upon this present life, and which in modern times
goes under the name of secularism. They were at bottom a purely political party, and they went
out of sight and disappeared from Jewish history with the fall of the Jewish State, only the
Pharisaic party surviving in witness of what Judaism is.

SADE, DONATIEN ALPHONSE FRANÇOIS, MARQUIS DE, French novelist, who, after fighting in the Seven
Years' War, was sentenced to death for odious crimes, effected his escape, but was caught and
imprisoned in the Bastille, where he wrote a number of licentious romances; died a lunatic
(1740-1814).

SÁDI, a celebrated Persian poet, born at Shiraz, of noble lineage, but born poor; bred up in
the Moslem faith; made pilgrimages to Mecca no fewer than 15 times; spent years in travel;
fell into the hands of the Crusaders; was ransomed by a merchant of Aleppo, who thought him
worth ransoming at a cost; retired to a hermitage near Shiraz, where he died and was buried;
his works, both in prose and verse, are numerous, but the most celebrated is the "Gulistan"
(the rose-gardens), a collection of moral tales interlarded with philosophical reflections
and maxims of wisdom, which have made his name famous all over both the East and the West (1184-1291).

SADLER, SIR RALPH, a politician and diplomatist; was employed by Henry VIII. in carrying out
the dissolution of the monasteries, and conducted diplomatic negotiations with Scotland; distinguished
himself at the battle of Pinkie; enjoyed the favour of Elizabeth; was Queen Mary's keeper in
the Castle of Tutbury; was the bearer of the news of Queen Mary's execution to King James (1507-1587).

SADOLETO, JACOPO, cardinal, born in Modena; acted as secretary under Leo X., Clement VII.,
and Paul III., the latter of whom created him a cardinal in 1536; was a faithful Churchman
and an accomplished scholar, and eminent in both capacities (1477-1547).

SADOWA. See KÖNIGGRÄTZ.

SAFED (17), a town of Palestine, 12 m. N. of Tiberias, occupied principally by Jews attracted
thither in part by the expectation that the Messiah, when He appears, will establish His kingdom
there; it spreads in horse-shoe fashion round the foot of a hill 2700 ft. high; is a seat of
Hebrew learning.

SAFETY LAMP, name of a variety of lamps for safety in coal-mines against "fire-damp," a highly
explosive mixture of natural gas apt to accumulate in them; the best known being the "Davey
Lamp," invented by Sir Humphrey Davy; the "Geordie," invented by George Stephenson, both of
which, however, have been superseded by the Gray, Muesler, Marsant, and other lamps; all are
constructed on the principle discovered by Davy and Stephenson, that a flame enveloped in wire
gauze of a certain fineness does not ignite "fire-damp."

SAFFI, or ASFI (9), a decayed seaport of Morocco, on the Mediterranean coast, 120 m. NW. of
the city of Morocco; has ruins of a castle of the Sultans and of the old Portuguese fortifications;
has still a fair export trade in beans, wool, olive-oil, &c.

SAGAR, a low island at the mouth of the Hûgli, a sacred spot and a place of pilgrimage to the
Hindus; mostly jungle; sparsely peopled.

SAGAS, a collection of epics in prose embodying the myths and legends of the ancient Scandinavians,
originally transmitted from mouth to mouth, and that began to assume a literary form about
the 12th century.

SAGASTA, PRAXEDES MATEO, Spanish statesmen of liberal sympathies; took part in the insurrections
of 1856 and 1866, and was for some time a fugitive in France; entered Prim's Cabinet, supported
the elected King Amadeus, and since his abdication has led the Liberal party; has twice been
Prime Minister; b. 1827.

SAGHALIEN (12), a long narrow island belonging to Russia, situated close to the E. coast of
Siberia, from which it is separated by the so-called Gulf of Tartary; stretches N. from the
island of Yezo, a distance of 670 m.; is mountainous and forest-clad in the interior; has excellent
coast fisheries, but a cold, damp climate prevents successful agriculture; rich coal-mines
exist, and are wrought by 4000 or 5000 convicts. Ceded by Japan to Russia in 1875.

SAGUENAY, a large and picturesque river of Canada; carries off the surplus waters of Lake St.
John, replenished by a number of large streams, and issuing a full-bodied stream, flows SE.
through magnificent forest and mountain scenery till it falls into the St. Lawrence, 115 m.
below Quebec, after a course of 100 m.; is remarkable for its depth, and is navigable by the
largest ships.

SAGUNTUM, a town of ancient Spain, was situated where now stands the town of Murviedro, 18
m. NE. of Valencia; famous in history for its memorable siege by Hannibal in 219 B.C., which
led to the Second Punic War.

SAHARA, the largest desert region in the world, stretches E. and W. across Northern Africa,
from the Atlantic to the valley of the Nile, a distance of 3000 m., and on the N. is limited
by the slopes of the Atlas Mountains, and on the S. by the valleys of the Senegal and Niger
Rivers. The surface is diversified by long sweeps of undulating sand-dunes, elevated plateaux,
hill and mountain ranges (8000 ft. highest) furrowed by dried-up water-courses, and dotted
with fertile oases which yield date-palms, oranges, lemons, figs, &c. The most sterile tract
is in the W., stretching in a semicircle between Cape Blanco and Fezzan. Rain falls over the
greater part at intervals of from two to five years. Temperature will vary from over 100°F.
to below freezing-point in 24 hours. There are a number of definite caravan routes connecting
Timbuctoo and the Central Soudan with the Niger and coast-lands. Dates and salt are the chief
products; the giraffe, wild ass, lion, ostrich, python, &c., are found; it is chiefly inhabited
by nomadic and often warlike Moors, Arabs, Berbers, and various negro races. The greater part
is within the sphere of French influence.

SAHARANPUR (59), a town in the North-West Provinces of India, 125 m. N. of Delhi, in a district
formerly malarious, but now drained and healthy; the population principally Mohammedans, who
have recently built in it a handsome mosque.

SAHIB (i. e. master), used in India when addressing a European gentleman; Mem Sahib to a lady.

SAIGON (16), capital of French Cochin-China, on the river Saigon, one of the delta streams
of the Mekhong, 60 m. from the China Sea; is handsomely laid out with boulevards, &c.; has
a fine palace, arsenal, botanical and zoological gardens, &c.; Cholon (40), 4 m. SW., forms
a busy trading suburb, exporting rice, cotton, salt, hides, &c.

SAINT, a name applied to a holy or sacred person, especially one canonised; in the plural it
is the name assumed by the Mormons.

ST. ALBANS (13), an old historic city of Hertfordshire, on an eminence by the Ver, a small
stream, which separates it from the site of the ancient Verulamium; has a splendid ancient
abbey church, rebuilt in 1077; industries include brewing, straw-plaiting, silk-throwing, &c.;
scene of two famous battles (1455 and 1461) during the Wars of the Roses.

ST. ALOYSIUS, Italian marquis, who renounced his title, became a Jesuit, devoted himself to
the care of the plague-stricken in Rome; died of it, and was canonised (1568-1591).

ST. ANDREWS (7), a famous city of Fife, occupies a bold site on St. Andrews Bay, 42 m. NE.
of Edinburgh; for long the ecclesiastical metropolis of Scotland, and associated with many
stirring events in Scottish history; its many interesting ruins include a 12th-century priory,
a cathedral, "robbed" in 1559, a castle or bishop's palace built in the 13th century; has a
university (St. Salvator's 1521 and St. Leonard's 1537) the first founded in Scotland, and
is still an important educational centre, having several excellent schools (Madras College
the chief); since the Reformation its trade has gradually dwindled away; fishing is carried
on, but it depends a good deal on its large influx of summer visitors, attracted by the splendid
golf links and excellent sea-bathing.

SAINT ARNAUD, JACQUES LEROY DE, a noted French marshal, born at Bordeaux; was already a distinguished
soldier when he entered actively into the plans of Louis Napoleon to overthrow the Republic;
assisted at the coup d'état, and was created a marshal in reward; commanded the French forces
at the outbreak of the Crimean War, and took part in the battle of the Alma, but died a few
days later (1796-1854).

ST. ASAPH (2), a pretty little city in Flintshire, 6 m. SE. of Rhyl; its cathedral, the smallest
in the kingdom, was rebuilt after 1284, mainly in the Decorated style.

ST. BEES (1), a village on the Cumberland coast, 4 m. S. of Whitehaven; has a Church of England
Theological College, founded in 1816 by Dr. Law, bishop of Chester; designed for students of
limited means; a ruined priory church of Henry I.'s time was renovated for the accommodation
of the college.

ST. BERNARD, the name of two mountain passes in the Alps: 1, GREAT ST. BERNARD, in the Pennine
Alps, leading from Martigny to Aosta, is 8120 ft. high, near the top of which stands a famous
hospice, founded in 962, and kept by Augustinian monks, who, with the aid of dogs called of
St. Bernard, do noble service in rescuing perishing travellers from the snow; 2, LITTLE ST.
BERNARD, in the Graian Alps, crosses the mountains which separate the valleys of Aosta and
Tarantaise in Savoy. Hannibal is supposed to have crossed the Alps by this pass.

ST. BRIEUC (16), capital of the dep. of Côtes du Nord, Brittany, on the Gouet, and 2 m. from
its mouth; has a 13th-century cathedral, ruins of an interesting tower, lyceum, &c.; at the
mouth of the river is the port Le Ligné.

ST. CHRISTOPHER or ST. KITTS (30), one of the Leeward Islands, in the West Indies archipelago,
45 m. NW. of Guadeloupe; a narrow mountainous island, 23 m. long; produces sugar, molasses,
rum, &c.; capital is Basse-terre (7).

ST. CLAIR, a river of North America, flowing in a broad navigable stream from Lake Huron into
Lake St. Clair, which in turn pours its surplus waters by means of the Detroit River into Lake
Erie.

ST. CLOUD (5), a town in the dep. of Seine-et-Oise, France; occupies an elevated site near
the Seine, 10 m. W. of Paris; the fine château, built by Louis XIV.'s brother, the Duke of
Orleans, was for long the favourite residence of the Emperor Napoleon, since destroyed; a part
of the park is occupied by the Sèvres porcelain factory.

ST. CYR (3), a French village, 2 m. W. of Versailles, where Louis XIV., at the request of Madame
de Maintenon, founded an institution for the education of girls of noble birth but poor, which
was suppressed at the time of the Revolution, and afterwards converted into a military school
by Napoleon.

SAINT-CYR, LAURENT GOUVION, MARQUIS DE, marshal of France, born at Toul; joined the army in
1792, and in six years had risen to the command of the French forces at Rome; fought with distinction
in the German and Italian campaigns, and in the Peninsular War; won his marshal's baton during
the Russian campaign of 1812; was captured at the capitulation of Dresden in 1813, much to
the regret of Napoleon; created a peer after the Restoration, and was for some time Minister
of War; wrote some historical works (1764-1830).

ST. DAVIDS (2), an interesting old cathedral town in Pembrokeshire, on the streamlet Alan,
and not 2 m. from St. Brides Bay; its cathedral, rebuilt after 1180 in the Transition Norman
style, was at one time a famous resort of pilgrims. On the other side of the Alan stand the
ruins of Bishop Gower's palace.

ST. DENIS (48), a town of France, on a canal of the same name, 4 m. N. of Paris, noted for
its old abbey church, which from the 7th century became the burying-place of the French monarchs.
During the Revolution in 1793 the tombs were ruthlessly desecrated; there is also a school
for the daughters of officers of the Legion of Honour, founded by Napoleon; manufactures chemicals,
printed calicoes, &c.

ST. ELIAS, MOUNT, an isolated, inaccessible volcanic mountain in the extreme NW. of Canada,
close to the frontier of Alaska, 18,010 ft. high; has never been scaled.

ST. ELMO'S FIRE. See ELMO'S FIRE, ST.

ST. ÉTIENNE (133), a busy industrial town of France, capital of department of Loire, on the
Furens, 36 m. SW. of Lyons; has been called the "Birmingham of France"; is in the centre of
a rich coal district, and produces every kind of hardware; the manufacture of ribbons is also
an important industry; there is a school of mines.

SAINT-ÉVREMOND, CHARLES MARGUETEL DE SAINT-DENIS, SEIGNEUR DE, a celebrated French wit and
author; won distinction as a soldier, and rose to be a field-marshal; his turn for satiric
writing got him into trouble, and in 1661 he fled to England, where the rest of his life was
spent; wrote charming letters to his friend Ninon de l'Enclos; enjoyed the favour of Charles
II., and published satires, essays, comedies, &c., which are distinguished by their polished
style and genial irony; was buried in Westminster (1613-1703).

ST. GALL (230), a NE. canton of Switzerland, on the Austrian frontier; its splendid lake and
mountain scenery and mineral springs render many of its towns popular holiday resorts; the
embroidery of cottons and other textiles is an important industry. ST. GALL (28), the capital,
is situated on the Steinach, 53 m. E. of Zurich; is a town of great antiquity, and celebrated
in past ages for its monastic schools; its magnificent mediæval cathedral has been restored;
the old Benedictine monastery is used now for government purposes, but still contains its famous
collection of MSS.; embroidering textiles is the chief industry.

ST. GOTHARD, a noted mountain in the Lepontine Alps, 9850 ft. high, crossed by a pass leading
from Lake Lucerne to Lake Maggiore; since 1882 traversed by a railway with a tunnel through
from Göschenen to Airolo, a distance of 9¼ m.

ST. HELENA (4), a precipitous cliff-bound island lying well out in the Atlantic, 1200 m. off
the W. coast of Africa; belongs to Britain; celebrated as Napoleon Bonaparte's place of imprisonment
from 1815 till his death in 1821. Jamestown (2), the capital, is a second-class coaling station
for the navy, and is fortified.

ST. HELENS (71), a thriving manufacturing town of Lancashire, on Sankey Brook, a feeder of
the Mersey, 21 m. W. by S. of Manchester; is the chief centre of the manufacture of crown,
plate, and sheet glass.

ST. HELIER (29), capital of Jersey Island, on St. Aubin Bay, on the S. side; is well fortified
by Fort Regent and Elizabeth Castle, on a rocky islet near the shore; has a college, public
library, &c.; fishing and shipbuilding are important industries.

ST. IVES, 1, a town in Cornwall, 8 m. N. of Penzance, the inhabitants of which are chiefly
engaged in the pilchard fisheries. 2, A town in Huntingdonshire, on the Ouse, 5 m. E. of Huntingdon,
where Cromwell lived and Theodore Watts the artist was born.

ST. JAMES'S PALACE, an old, brick-built palace in Pall Mall, London, originally a hospital,
converted into a manor by Henry VIII., and became eventually a royal residence. It gives name
to the British court.

ST. JOHN, a river of North America, rises in the highlands of North Maine and crosses the continent
in an easterly direction and falls into the Bay of Fundy after a course of 450 m., of which
225 m. are in New Brunswick; is navigable for steamers as far as Fredericton.

ST. JOHN (39), embracing the adjacent town of Portland, chief commercial city of New Brunswick,
on the estuary of St. John River, 277 m. NW. of Halifax; has an excellent harbour; shipbuilding,
fishing, and timber exporting are the chief industries; has a great variety of prosperous manufactures,
such as machine and iron works, cotton and woollen factories, &c.; does a good trade with the
West Indies. (1767-1794).

ST. KILDA. See KILDA, ST.

ST. LAWRENCE, one of the great rivers of North America; issues in a noble stream from Lake
Ontario, and flowing due NE. discharges into the Gulf of St. Lawrence, forming a broad estuary;
is 750 m. long and from 1 to 4 m. broad; the scenery in parts is very grand, notably in the
expansion--the Lake of the Thousand Isles; is navigable for large steamers as far as Montreal:
the Ottawa is its chief tributary; in winter navigation is suspended on account of the ice.

ST. LÓ (10), a town in Normandy, on a rocky eminence 60 m. SE. of Cherbourg; has textile manufactures;
was the birthplace of Leverrier.

ST. LOUIS, 1, One of the great commercial cities (575) of the United States, capital of Missouri
State; situated on the Mississippi (here spanned by two fine bridges), 21 m. below its confluence
with the Missouri; is a handsomely built city, and equipped with every modern convenience,
entirely lit by electric light, &c.; has spacious parks, two universities, public libraries,
&c.; is a centre for 18 railroads, which with the great river-way enables it to carry on a
vast trade in grain, cotton, wool, furs, live stock, &c.; its tobacco manufacture is the greatest
in the world. 2, Also capital (17) of the French colony of Senegal, in West Africa.

ST. LUCIA (42), a rocky, forest-clad island in the West Indies, the largest of the Windward
group; exports sugar, cocoa, logwood, &c.; capital is Castries (8).

ST. MALO (12), a strongly fortified seaport of France, on the Brittany coast (department of
Ille-et-Vilaine), at the mouth of the Ranee; the old town is built over the Rocher d'Auron,
an islet connected with the mainland by a causeway 215 yards long; there is a good harbour,
and a considerable amount of shipping is done; potatoes, dairy-produce, and some cereals are
exported. It was the birthplace of several distinguished French authors and sailors.

ST. MICHAEL'S (126), the largest and most fertile of the Azores, 40 m. long by from 5 m. to
10 m. in breadth; is of volcanic origin; yields cereals, oranges, &c.

ST. MICHAEL'S MOUNT, an islet, forming a precipitous granite mass, in Mount's Bay, Cornwall,
connected with the mainland by a low causeway passable only at low tides; a fine old castle
crowns its rocky height, and a small fishing village lies sheltered on the northern side.

ST. MICHEL, MONT, a remarkable islet in St. Michel Bay, SW. corner of Normandy, 18 m. W. of
Avranches; is formed of a single cone of granite, 242 ft. high, crowned by a historic Benedictine
monastery; on the lower slopes is built a little fortified town; a causeway 1 m. long joins
it to the mainland.

ST. NAZAIRE (26), a flourishing seaport of France, on the Loire, 40 m. W. of Nantes, where
large sums have been expended in improving its spacious docks to accommodate an increasing
shipping-trade; its exports, brandy, coal, wheat, &c., are mainly from Nantes and the interior.

ST. NEOTS (4), an old market-town of Huntingdonshire, on the Ouse, 8 m. SW. of Huntingdon;
has an interesting old parish church, a corn exchange, and iron and paper works.

ST. NICHOLAS, the patron saint of boys, who was fabled to bring presents to good children on
Christmas eve; was bishop of Myra in the 4th century, and had taken a special interest in the
young.

ST. OMER (20), a fortified town of France, on the Aa, 26 m. SE. of Calais; has a fine old Gothic
cathedral, a ruined Benedictine abbey church, a Catholic college, arsenal, &c.; manufactures
embrace light textiles, tobacco pipes, &c.

ST. PAUL (168), capital of Minnesota State, finely situated on the Mississippi, a little below
the mouth of the Minnesota River; in 1849 a village of 500 inhabitants; is now a beautiful
and spacious city, equipped with colleges, libraries, government buildings, electric street-railways,
&c.; is a centre for 10 railways, and carries on a large trade in distributing groceries and
dry goods throughout the State.

ST. PAUL'S SCHOOL, at West Kensington, London, a famous charity school founded by JOHN COLET
(q. v.), dean of St. Paul's, for children of "every nation, country, and class"; originally
stood in St. Paul's Churchyard, but was burned out by the Great Fire of 1666; the present building
was opened in 1884. The endowment amounts to £10,000 a year, and 1000 boys and 400 girls are
provided with education and board. There are a number of Oxford and Cambridge exhibitions.

ST. PETERSBURG (1,036), capital of Russia, an imposing city, occupying a dreary, isolated site
at the head of the Gulf of Finland, on the banks and delta islands (100) of the Neva, founded
in 1702 by Peter the Great; a large number of bridges span the main stream and its numerous
divisions; massive stone quays hold back the waters, but a rise of 12 ft. floods the city (a
yearly occurrence in the poorer parts); the river is ice-bound nearly half the year, and is
given over to sleighing, &c.; the short summer is hot; covers nearly 48 sq. m.; its palaces
and government buildings for number and grandeur are unsurpassed; Neva View is the finest street
in Europe; is the centre of Russian political, literary, scientific, and artistic life; has
a university, numerous academies, cathedral, technical and training colleges, and libraries
(the Imperial Public Library contains 1,200,000 vols.); connected with the Volga basin by a
canal, and the centre of four railways, it is the commercial metropolis and chief port of Russia,
and carries on half the foreign trade; exports one-fifth of the corn of Russia, besides flax,
linseed, leather, petroleum, &c.; imports coal, machinery, &c.; principal manufactures are
cotton goods and other textiles, leather, sugar, porcelain goods, &c.

ST. PIERRE, HENRI BERNARDIN DE, French novelist, born at Havre; an engineer by profession,
was a disciple of Rousseau both sentimentally and speculatively; his chief work, "PAUL AND
VIRGINIA" (q. v.), shows here as in his other writings, says Professor Saintsbury, "a remarkable
faculty of word-painting, and also of influencing the feelings" (1737-1814).

ST. QUENTIN (48), a manufacturing town of France, on the Somme, 95 m. NE. of Paris; manufactures
all kinds of cotton and woollen goods, machinery, paper, &c.; has a fine old Gothic church
and town-hall; here the French were routed by the Spaniards in 1557, and by the Germans in 1871.

ST. RÉAL, ABBÉ DE, historian, born at Chambéry, where he settled in 1679, and where he died;
was historiographer to the Duke of Savoy, and wrote the "History of the Conspiracy of Spain
against Venice," a masterpiece of its kind, and modelled on Sallust (1639-1692).

SAINT SAËNS, CHARLES CAMILLE, a French musician, born in Paris; for 19 years organist of the
Madeleine; composer of a number of operas (e. g. "Henri VIII.") indifferently successful, and
of much orchestral and chamber music of a masterly kind; is held to be one of the greatest
of living pianists and organists; also noted for his musical critiques; b. 1835.

ST. SIMON, CLAUDE HENRI, COMTE DE, founder of French Socialism, and of a sect called after
him St. Simonians, born in Paris, of an old noble family; grand-nephew of the succeeding, but
renounced his title and devoted his life and all his means of living to the promotion of his
Socialist scheme, reducing himself in the end to utter penury; he made few disciples, though
some of them were men of distinction; he is credited by Carlyle with having discovered, "not
without amazement, that man is still man, of which forgotten truth," he bids us remark, "he
had made a false application"; that is, we presume, by reorganisation from without instead
of regeneration from within; his scheme was a reconstruction of society by the abolition of
the hereditary principle, and the vesting of the instruments of production in the State and
the administration of these for the welfare of all its members (1760-1825).

ST. SIMON, LOUIS DE ROUVROY, DUC DE, French courtier and diplomatist in the reign of Louis
XIV.; left "Memoirs" in record of the times he lived in, depicting with remarkable sagacity
the manners of the Court and the characters of the courtiers (1676-1755).

ST. SIMONIANS. See ST. SIMON, COMTE DE.

ST. TAMMANY, an American-Indian chief, popularly canonised as a saint, and adopted as the tutelary
genius by a section of the democratic party in the States; his motto was "Unite in peace for
happiness; in war for defence."

ST. THOMAS, 1, an unhealthy volcanic island (20) in the Gulf of Guinea, belonging to Portugal;
produces coffee, cocoa, and some spices; chief town, St. Thomas (3), a port on the NE. 2, One
of the Virgin Islands (14), 37 m. E. of Porto Rico; belongs to Denmark; since the abolition
of slavery its prosperous sugar trade has entirely departed; capital, St. Thomas (12), is now
a coaling-station for steamers.

ST. THOMAS'S, a handsome hospital on the S. side of the Thames, opposite Westminster, founded
in 1553, and with an annual revenue of £40,000.

SAINT-VICTOR, PAUL DE, an ornate French writer, born in Paris; from 1851 was engaged in dramatic
and other criticism, and established his reputation as a stylist of unusual brilliance. "When
I read Saint-Victor I put on blue spectacles," said Lamartine; author of several works on historical
and æsthetic subjects (e. g. "Anciens et Modernes," "Hommes et Dieux") was for a number of
years General Inspector of Fine Arts (1827-1881).

ST. VINCENT (41), one of the Windward Islands, in the West Indies, 105 m. W. of Barbadoes,
belongs to Britain; a coaling and cable station; mountainous and volcanic; warm, but healthy
climate; exports sugar, rum, spices, &c.; chief town is Kingston (6), a port on the SW. coast.

ST. VINCENT, CAPE, a lofty and rugged headland in the extreme SW. of Portugal, off which have
been fought several naval battles, the most memorable being the great victory on February 14,
1797, when Jervis and Nelson annihilated the Franco-Spanish fleet.

ST. VINCENT, JOHN JERVIS, EARL, a noted English admiral, born at Meaford Hill, Staffordshire;
ran away to sea when a boy, and by gallantry at Quebec in 1759 and otherwise rose rapidly in
the service; commanded the naval attack upon the French West Indies (1793), and four years
later, as admiral of the Mediterranean fleet, shared with Nelson the honours of a brilliant
victory over the combined fleets of France and Spain off Cape St. Vincent; was created an earl
in reward; during 1801-1804 was a successful First Lord of the Admiralty (1734-1823).

SAINTE-BEUVE, CHARLES AUGUSTIN, the greatest of French literary critics, born at Boulogne-sur-Mer;
adopted medicine as a profession in deference to the wishes of his widowed mother, and for
some years studied at Paris, but even as a student had begun his career as a literary critic
by contributions to the Globe newspaper; in 1827 became acquainted with Victor Hugo, whose
commanding influence drew him into the Romantic movement, and determined for him a literary
career; a critical work on French poetry in the 16th century (1828), two volumes of mediocre
poetry (1829-1830), and a psychological novel, "Volupté" (1834), the fruit of spiritual and
mental unrest, preceded his lectures at Lausanne on Port-Royal (1837), which, afterwards elaborated
and published, contain some of his finest writings; an appointment in the Mazarin Library,
Paris (1840), brought him a modest competence, and allowed him during the next 8 years to contribute
without strain or stress to the Revue des Deux Mondes; was elected in 1845 to the Academy;
three years later lectured for a session at Liège University; during 1849-1869 he contributed
a weekly literary article to the Constitutionnel; these form his famous "Causeries du Lundi"
and "Nouveaux Lundis," which, for variety of human interest, critical insight, and breadth
of sympathy, remain unsurpassed; was appointed professor of Latin in the Collège de France
(1854), but his unpopularity with the students, owing to his support of Napoleon III., led
to his resignation; as a senator in 1865 his popularity revived by his eloquent advocacy of
freedom of thought, and on his decease some 10,000 people attended his funeral (1804-1869).

SAINTE-CLAIRE DEVILLE, HENRI ÉTIENNE, a noted French chemist, born in St. Thomas, West Indies;
occupied for many years the chair of Chemistry in the Sorbonne, Paris; his important contributions
to chemical knowledge include a process for simplifying the extraction of aluminium and platinum
(1818-1881).

SAINTES (15), an interesting old town in West France, dep. Charente-Inférieure, on the Charente,
28 m. SE. of Rochefort; known in ancient times as Mediolanum; has some splendid Roman remains,
a cathedral, &c.; manufactures copper and iron goods, leather, &c.

SAINTSBURY, GEORGE, literary critic, born at Southampton; graduated at Merton College, Oxford;
was engaged in scholastic work for a number of years at Manchester, Guernsey, and Elgin; in
1876 settled in London, and made a reputation for vigorous and scholarly criticism, devoting
much of his time to French literature; elected to the Chair of English Literature in Edinburgh
University, 1895; is the author of a "Short History of French Literature," a "Short History
of English Literature," besides several volumes of essays, &c.; b. 1845.

SAÏS, a city of ancient Egypt, on the delta, on the right bank of the W. branch of the Nile;
gave name to two Egyptian dynasties founded by natives of it, was a religious centre, and eventually
for a time capital, the temple of which was said to contain a veiled statue which became a
subject of legend.

SAIVAS, in the Hindu religion the worshippers of Siva, one of the two great sections of the
Hindus, the worshippers of Vishnu being the other.

SAKI, a beer of alcoholic quality made in Japan from rice by fermentation. It is drunk hot
at meals, and is in a small way intoxicating.

SAKUNTALA, in Hindu mythology a benignant female character, made the subject of a famous drama
of KÁLIDÁSA (q. v.), translated in 1789 by Sir William Jones.

SAKYAMUNI (i. e. the solitary of the Sakyas), the name given to Buddha, one of the tribe of
the Sakyas in Northern India.

SALA, GEORGE AUGUSTUS, a well-known journalist, born in London, of Italian and English parentage;
had some training in art before he began writing for Dickens's Household Words, &c.; lived
a busy, rambling life; founded and edited Temple Bar; acted as war-correspondent for the Daily
Telegraph; author of several popular novels, "Captain Dangerous" and "Quite Alone" among them,
and books of travel, "A Trip to Barbary" and "America Revisited" (1828-1895).

SALAAM, an Oriental term of salutation meaning "Peace," especially among the Mohammedans.

SALADIN, sultan of Egypt and Syria, the hero of the third crusade on the Saracen side; a man
of noble and chivalrous character; served first as a soldier under Nureddin; rose to be vizier
of Egypt, and ultimately sovereign in 1174; distinguished himself by the capture of Damascus,
Aleppo, &c., and entering the Holy Land defeated the Christians at Tiberias, thereafter taking
Jerusalem and laying siege to Tyre; found in Richard Coeur de Lion a foeman worthy of his steel,
concluded a truce in 1192, and died the year after (1137-1193).

SALAMANCA (22), an interesting old city of Spain, capital of a province of the same name, occupies
a hilly site on the Tormes, here spanned by a Roman bridge, 110 m. NW. of Madrid, long famous
for its university, which in its heyday (16th century) numbered 8000 students, now fallen to
400; holds within its surrounding walls many fine old cathedrals, colleges, and other buildings;
its industries are greatly fallen off, and consist mainly of cloth, linen, leather, and pottery
manufacturing; in this neighbourhood Wellington won a great victory over the French on July
22, 1812.

SALAMANDER, an elemental spirit conceived in the Middle Ages as an animal that lived in the
fire as its proper element.

SALAMIS, a mountainous island of Greece, on the NW. coast of Attica, the strait between which
and the mainland was the scene of a naval victory over the armament of Xerxes by the combined
fleets of Athens, Sparta, and Corinth in 480 B.C.

SALDANHA OLIVEIRA E DAUN JOÃO CARLOS, DUKE OF, Portuguese statesman and soldier, played an
honourable and patriotic part in many wars and crises of his country, notably in Brazil in
the struggle between Dom Pedro and Dom Miguel, and during his occupancy of the Premiership
on three several occasions between 1846-70; proved a mild constitutionalist, and enjoyed the
confidence and support of England; was created a duke in 1846 (1790-1876).

SALE, GEORGE, Orientalist, born in Kent, and bred for the bar, contributed to the "Universal
History" and the "General Dictionary," but is best known as the translator of the "Korân,"
with a preliminary dissertation and notes; he left a body of MSS. behind him (1690-1736).

SALE, SIR ROBERT HENRY, British general; saw a great deal of fighting; was distinguished in
the Burmese War of 1824-25, and in the war against Afghanistan in 1834, in both of which he
was wounded, and afterwards in the latter country during 1841-42; he was killed at the battle
of Mudki fighting against the Sikhs (1782-1865).

SALEM, 1, a city (36) and seaport of the United States, founded in 1626 on a peninsula in Massachusetts
Bay, 15 m. NE. of Boston; its foreign trade has fallen away, but a good coasting trade is done
in ice and coal; manufactures include cottons, jutes, shoes, &c. 2, Capital (5) of Oregon,
on the Willamette River, 720 m. N. of San Francisco.

SALERNO (22), a city of South Italy, on a gulf of the name, 33 m. SE. of Naples; has some fine
Gothic buildings, notably the cathedral of St. Matthew; had a European fame in the Middle Ages
for its medical school and university, closed in 1817; cotton-spinning is the chief industry;
in the neighbourhood are the ruins of Pæstum and an old Norman castle.

SALETTE, LA, a French village amid Alpine scenery, 28 m. SE. of Grenoble; has become a place
of pilgrimage, since the alleged appearance of the Virgin to two peasant children on 19th September
1846.

SALFORD (198), a suburb of Manchester, with cotton factories and iron-works, and with Manchester
forms the second largest city in England.

SALIC LAW, a law which obtained among the Salian Franks, as also in certain German States,
which excluded females from succession to the throne.

SALICYLIC ACID, produced in commercial quantities from carbolic acid; is a white crystalline
powder, soluble in water, odourless, of a sweetish acid taste; largely used as an external
antiseptic, and internally in the form of salicylate of sodium as a febrifuge and cure for
acute rheumatism.

SALISBURY (17), a cathedral city, and capital of Wiltshire, 84 m. WSW. of London; the cathedral,
founded in 1225, and frequently added to and restored, is one of the finest specimens of Early
English architecture; has a number of other interesting old buildings--churches, almshouses,
inns, an endowed school, &c.; agriculture is the staple industry; also called New Sarum, and
a mile to the N. is the half-obliterated site of Old Sarum, with many interesting historical
associations; while round the neighbourhood sweeps the wide, undulating, pastoral Salisbury
Plain, with its Druidical circle of STONEHENGE (q. v.).

SALISBURY, ROBERT ARTHUR TALBOT GASCOIGNE CECIL, MARQUIS OF, statesman, educated at Eton and
Christ Church, Oxford; as Lord Cecil, represented Stamford in Parliament in 1853; was, as Lord
Cranborne, Secretary for India in 1866 under Lord Derby; entered the House of Lords as Lord
Salisbury in 1867, and distinguished himself as foremost in debate; became Secretary for India
under Disraeli in 1874, and Secretary for Foreign Affairs in 1881, in which latter year he,
on the death of Beaconsfield, became leader of the Conservative party; after this he was three
times raised to the Premiership, the last time on Lord Roseberys retirement in 1890, by coalition
with the LIBERAL UNIONISTS (q. v.); was at one time a contributor to the Saturday Review, and
is interested in scientific pursuits, chemistry in particular; b. 1830.

SALLUST, Roman historian, born at Amiternum, in the territory of the Sabines, and attained
the quæstorship and the tribunate, though a plebeian; for a misdemeanour was expelled the Senate;
joined Cæsar's party in the Civil War, and became governor of Numidia; enriched himself by
extortions, and returned to Rome a rich man, and gave himself to literature; wrote the "Catiline
Conspiracy," and the "War with Jugurtha," among other works, in a terse and forcible style,
and was the precursor of Livy and Tacitus; as a writer he affects the moralist, though he lived
in vice (86-35 B.C.).

SALMASIUS, eminent French scholar, learned in Greek, Latin, Hebrew, Arabic, and other languages;
succeeded Scaliger at Leyden, and associated with Casaubon, Grotius, and other scholars; embraced
Protestantism; wrote a number of learned works, but his "Defence of Charles I." proved a failure,
and provoked from Milton a crushing reply; died a disappointed man, though he refused to sell
his literary talent for money, when Richelieu tried hard to bribe him (1588-1653).

SALMON, GEORGE, mathematician and divine, born in Dublin, and there in 1839 graduated with
mathematical honours at Trinity College; became a Fellow, entered the Church, and in 1866 was
elected regius professor of Divinity, becoming provost of the college in 1888; has carried
on with eminent success his dual studies, mathematics and theology, and has published some
notable works in both sciences, e. g. in theology, "Non-Miraculous Christianity," "Gnosticism
and Agnosticism," a scholarly and popular "Introduction to the New Testament," and in mathematics
"Analytic Geometry," "The Higher Plane Curves," &c. b. 1819.

SALOMON, JOHANN PETER, a violinist and composer, born at Bonn; was in his youth attached, to
the court of Prince Henry of Prussia, at which time he wrote some operas; came to London, and
is remembered for the great stimulus he gave to musical culture, and especially the study of
Haydn in England by his Philharmonic Concerts (1790) and production of that great master's
symphonies; composed songs, glees, violin pieces, &c.; buried in Westminster Abbey (1745-1815).

SALONICA or SALONIKI (122), the Thessalonica of the Scriptures, the second port and city of
Turkey in Europe; occupies a bold and rocky site at the head of the Gulf of Salonica, 370 m.
SW. of Constantinople; is surrounded by walls, is well laid out, drained, &c.; contains many
fine old mosques; has an increasing commerce, exporting corn, cotton, opium, wool, &c.; founded
in 315 B.C., and has ever since been a place of considerable importance.

SALSETTE (108), an island N. of Bombay, and connected with it by a causeway, with richly cultivated
fields and rock temples among other ruins.

SALT, SIR TITUS, English manufacturer, born near Leeds; introduced the manufacture of alpaca,
planted his factory at Saltaire, near Leeds, which he made a model village for his workers
as a philanthropic employer of labour (1803-1876).

SALT LAKE CITY (53), the capital of Utah, a high-lying city and stronghold of Mormonism, 11
m. from Great Salt Lake; contains the Mormon temple, which it took 40 years to build, and it
has besides many fine churches, and the university of Deseret.

SALT RANGE, a tract of lofty tableland buttressed on either side by mountain ranges 3000 to
5000 ft. high, and stretching across the Punjab E. and W., between Jhelum and Indus Rivers;
derives its name from the remarkably rich deposits of rock-salt, which are extensively worked.

SALTS, in chemistry an important class of compound substances formed by the union of an acid
with a metal or a base, that is, a substance having, like a metal, the power of replacing in
part or in whole the hydrogen of the acid employed.

SALTUS, EDGAR, an interesting American writer, born in New York; a busy writer in fiction,
biography (Balzac), and philosophy, e. g. "The Philosophy of Disenchantment" and "The Anatomy
of Negation," studies in a somewhat cheerful pessimism; b. 1858.

SALVADOR (780), the smallest but the most densely populated of the republics of Central America,
about one-sixth the size of England and Wales; has a western foreshore between Guatemala (N.)
and Nicaragua (S.), fronting the Pacific for 140 m.; slopes up from rich alluvial coast-lands
to high plateaus, which stretch, seamed and broken by rivers and volcanoes, to the Cordillera
frontier of Honduras on the E.; soil is extremely fertile and naturally irrigated by numerous
streams, and produces in abundance coffee and indigo (chief exports), balsam, tobacco, sugar,
cereals, &c.; has a warm, healthy climate. The natives are chiefly Indians of Aztec descent,
but speaking Spanish. The government is vested in a president and chamber of deputies. Education
is free and compulsory. Broke away from Spanish control in 1821; was a member of the Central
American Confederacy, but since 1853 has enjoyed complete independence. Capital, SAN SALVADOR
(q. v.).

SALVATION ARMY, a modern religious organisation and propaganda, remarkable alike for its novel
methods and phenomenal expansion; assumed its present quasi-military form in 1878, but is in
reality the outgrowth of a mission founded in London in 1865 by the Rev. WILLIAM BOOTH (q.
v.), and nobly furthered by his wife. It is in essence a protest against the older conventional
methods of propagating the Christian religion, and would seem by its remarkable success to
have ministered to some latent and wide-spread need among the poorer classes. In 1895 it numbered
500,000 enrolled soldiers, 25,126 local officers, and 11,740 officers; these are spread over
35 countries. The members assume semi-military attire, march through the streets to the sound
of musical instruments, displaying banners; but while these and other sensational devices bring
its purposes home to the hearts of the people, its vitality rests upon the real spiritual devotion
and self-sacrifice of its members. Various agencies of a more directly philanthropic kind (homes
of rest, rescues, workshops, farms, etc.) have become attached to it, and are generously supported
by the public. Funds are raised by means of the War Cry and other periodicals.

SALVINI, TOMMASO, a celebrated Italian tragedian, born, the son of an actor, at Milan; was
trained to the stage, and joined Ristori's company; served with distinction in the revolutionary
war of 1849, and returning to the stage won for himself a European fame, appearing in France,
Spain, United States, England, &c.; achieved his greatest success in "Othello"; retired after
1884, and published "Leaves from My Autobiography"; b. 1830.

SALWEEN, a river of Asia whose source is still uncertain; forms in its lower part the boundary
between Siam and British Burma, and falls into the Gulf of Martaban; its upper course traverses
the northern Shan district; only 80 m. of it are navigable.

SALZBURG (174), a western province and duchy of Austria, borders on Bavaria between the Tyrol
and Upper Austria; is woody and mountainous, especially in the S., where fine scenery is formed
by the Alps; excellent meadowland favours a prosperous industry in the rearing of cattle and
horses. The inhabitants, being Protestants, were severely persecuted by the Church, and 30,000
of them emigrated in 1730, and on the invitation of Frederick William of Prussia settled in
Lithuania, that had been desolated by plague. Salzburg (28), the capital, occupies a fine site
on the hill-girt banks of the Salzach (crossed by 3 bridges), 80 m. E. by S. of Münich; is
a handsome and interesting city, with many fine old buildings, including a cathedral, archbishop's
palace, imperial palace, monasteries, &c.; has a theological college, libraries, &c.; birthplace
of Mozart; manufactures musical instruments, &c.

SALZKAMMERGUT (18), a beautiful mountain district of Austria, between Salzburg (W.) and Styria
(E.); salt mines and springs give a rich yield of salt.

SAM SLICK. See SLICK.

SAM WELLER. See WELLER.

SAMARCAND (33), a city of West Turkestan, situated at the western base of the Tian-Shan Mountains,
130 m. SE. of Bokhara. Suffered at the hands of Genghis Khan in the 13th century; was Timur's
capital in the 14th century, and has since been held sacred by the Moslems. Captured by the
Russians in 1868, who have improved it, and built a handsome suburb on the west. Manufactures
silk, cotton, paper, &c.

SAMARIA, a city of a district of the name between Judea and Galilee in the Holy Land, and which
became the capital of the North Kingdom of Israel after the revolt from the Southern; was desolated
by the hosts of Assyria in 720 B.C., and repeopled afterwards by Assyrian settlers, who were
converted to the Jewish faith, and ministered to by a Jewish priest; when the Jews rebuilt
the Temple of Jerusalem, the Samaritans' offer to aid was rejected, and the refusal led to
a bitter hostility between the Jews and Samaritans ever after.

SAMARITAN PENTATEUCH, a version of the Pentateuch in use among the Samaritans, and alone accepted
by them as canonical. It is of value from its independence of other versions.

SAMARITANS. See SAMARIA.

SAMAVEDA, the section of the Veda that contains the chants, intended for singers.

SAMIAN SAGE, name given to Pythagoras as a native of Samos.

SAMNITES, a warlike people of ancient Italy in territory SE. of Rome; gave the Romans much
trouble till, after two successive wars in 343 and 327 B.C., they were subdued in 290 B.C.
A revolt in 90 B.C. led to their extermination as an nation.

SAMOA, or NAVIGATORS' ISLANDS (36), a group of 14 volcanic islands in the W. Pacific, of which
three alone are of any size--Savaii, Upolu, and Tutuila; all are mountainous and richly wooded;
climate is moist and warm; copra is the chief export, and cotton, coffee, tobacco, &c., are
grown; the natives, a vigorous Polynesian race, have been Christianised; the islands are under
the joint suzerainty of Britain, Germany, and the United States; the chief town of the group
is Apia (2), at the head of a pretty bay in Upolu; near here R. Louis Stevenson spent the last
five years of his life.

SAMOS, a fertile island in the Ægean Sea, about 30 m. long and 8 wide, separated from the coast
of Ionia, three-quarters of a mile wide; had an extensive trade with Egypt and Crete; came
through various fortunes under the chief Powers of ancient and mediæval Europe till it became
subject to Turkey; had a capital of the same name, which in the fifth century B.C. was one
of the finest cities in the world.

SAMOTHRACE, a mountainous, bleak island in the Ægean Sea, NW. of the mouth of the Dardanelles;
has only one village of 2000 inhabitants; was in ancient times place of CABIRI WORSHIP (q. v.).

SAMOYEDES, a people of the Mongolian race, occupying the N. shores of Russia and Siberia from
the White Sea to the Yenisei; live by hunting and fishing, and are idol-worshippers; they are
fast disappearing.

SAMPSON, DOMINIE, a character in Scott's "Guy Mannering."

SAMSON, ranked as judge of Israel, but the story of his life is as of a Jewish hero, distinguished
for his feats of strength; employed in the service of his country against the Philistines.

SAMSON AGONISTES, the strong man of a nation or race caught in the net of his and their enemies,
and, encompassed by them, wrestling in his soul's agony to free himself from them; the imagery
here being suggested by the story of Samson in the hands of the Philistines.

SAMUEL, a Jewish prophet, born, of the tribe of Levi, about 1155 B.C.; consecrated by his mother
from earliest years to the service of the Lord; who became a judge when he was 40, anointed
first Saul and then David to be king over the till then disunited tribes of Israel, and thus
became the founder of the Jewish monarchy.

SAMUEL, BOOKS OF, two books of the Old Testament, originally one, and divided in the Septuagint
into two, entitled respectively the First and Second Books of Kings; the narrative embraces
a period of 125 years, and extends from the time of the Judges to the close of the reign of
David, including the intermediate judgeship of Samuel and the reign of Saul, with the view
of exalting the prophetic office on the one hand and the kingly office on the other.

SAN ANTONIO (53), the second city of Texas, of Spanish origin, on a river of the name, 80 m.
W. of Austin; has a Catholic college, cathedral, arsenal, &c.; does a good trade in the produce
of a fertile neighbourhood, and manufactures flour, leather, beer, &c.

SAN DIEGO (16), a thriving port in S. California, situated on a handsome bay of the same name,
124 m. SE. of Los Angeles; wool is the chief export.

SAN DOMINGO (25), capital of the Dominican Republic, a fortified port on the S. coast of Hayti;
has a 16th-century Gothic cathedral, college, hospital, &c.; founded by Columbus.

SAN FRANCISCO (342), capital of California, and commercial metropolis of the W. coast of America;
occupies the NE. corner of a tongue of land stretching between the Pacific and San Francisco
Bay, which, with San Pablo Bay and Suisun Bay--extensions to the N.--forms a handsome land-locked
sheet of water 65 m. long, communicating with the ocean by Golden Gate Strait; has practically
sprung into existence since the discovery of gold in 1847, and is now a spacious and evenly
laid-out city, with every modern convenience--electric light, cable tramways, &c.; many of
the dwelling-houses are of wood, but marble and granite give dignity to Government buildings,
hotels, theatres, &c.; there is a remarkable number of religious sects; has a fine park, many
free schools, a number of colleges, and a university; as the western terminus of the great
continental railroads and outlet for the produce of a rich wheat district it has a large shipping
trade; important industries are shipbuilding, whale-fishing, sugar-refining, iron-works, &c.

SAN JOSÉ (18), a city of California, and capital of Santa Clara county, on the Guadalupe River,
50 m. SE. of San Francisco; has a couple of Catholic colleges, a Methodist university, pretty
orchards, &c.; fruit-canning and the manufacture of flour and woollen goods are the chief industries.
The name also of small towns in Guatemala, Lower California, and Uruguay.

SAN JOSÉ (19), capital of Costa Rica, situated on a fertile and elevated plain between the
Caribbean Sea and the Pacific; grain, the vine, and many fruits are grown in the neighbourhood;
flour-milling and distilling (Government works) are the principal town industries; there is
a university.

SAN JUAN (125), a mountainous province of the Argentine Republic, on the Chilian border; is
rich in metals, but, save coal, not worked; agriculture is the chief industry. San Juan (12),
on a river of the same name, is the capital, lies 98 m. N. of Mendoza; has public baths, a
bull-ring, library, &c.; exports cattle and fodder, chiefly to Chile. The name of numerous
other towns in different parts of Spanish South America.

SAN MARINO (8), a little republic of Europe which has maintained its independence since the
4th century; comprises a town (same name) and several villages occupying rocky and elevated
sites on the eastern slopes of the Apennines; some agriculture and cattle-rearing are done;
is under the friendly protection of Italy.

SAN REMO (12), a town in Northern Italy, on a bay in the Gulf of Genoa, in the Riviera, 26
m. NE. of Nice; is sheltered by a semicircle of hills, and from its mild climate is a favourite
winter resort; trades in olive-oil, palms, and lemons.

SAN SALVADOR (20), capital of SALVADOR (q. v.), situated on a fertile and elevated plain at
the base of an extinct volcano; has suffered frequently and severely from earthquakes, and
after the disaster of 1854 a new town, Nueva San Salvador, was built 12 m. to the SW., only
to suffer a similar fate.

SAN SEBASTIAN (30), a fortified seaport of North Spain, on a small peninsula jutting into the
Bay of Biscay, 10 m. from the French frontier; is guarded by a strong citadel, and since its
bombardment by Wellington in 1813 has been spaciously rebuilt; has a beautiful foreshore, and
is a favourite watering-place; has a fair export trade.

SAN STEFANO, a Turkish village, a few miles W. of Constantinople, where a preliminary treaty
was signed between Turkey and Russia after the war of 1877-78.

SANCHEZ, THOMAS, a Spanish casuist, born at Cordova; author of a treatise on the "Sacrament
of Marriage," rendered notorious from the sarcastic treatment it received at the hands of Pascal
and Voltaire (1550-1610).

SANCHO PANZA, the immortal squire of Don Quixote. See PANZA, SANCHO.

SANCHONIATHON, a Phoenician historian of uncertain date; author of a history of Phoenicia,
of which only a few fragments remain, and that of a translation into Greek; he is supposed
to have lived in the time of Semiramus.

SANCROFT, WILLIAM, an English prelate, born in Suffolk; rose through a succession of preferments
to be Archbishop of Canterbury; was with six other bishops committed to the Tower for petitioning
against James II.'s second Declaration of Indulgence; refused to take the oath of allegiance
to William and Mary, and was driven from his post, after which he retired to his native place
(1616-1693).

SAND, GEORGE, the assumed name of Aurore Dupin, notable French novelist, born in Paris; married
Baron Dudevant, a man of means, but with no literary sympathies; became the mother of two children,
and after nine years effected a separation from him (1831) and went to Paris to push her way
in literature, and involved herself in some unhappy liaisons, notably with ALFRED DE MUSSET
(q. v.) and Chopin; after 1848 she experienced a sharp revulsion from this Bohemian life, and
her last twenty-five years were spent in the quiet "Châtelaine of Nohant" (inherited) in never-ceasing
literary activity, and in entertaining the many eminent littérateurs of all countries who visited
her; her voluminous works reflect the strange shifts of her life; "Indiana," "Lélia," and other
novels reveal the tumult and revolt that mark her early years in Paris; "Consuelo," "Spiridion,"
&c., show her engaged with political, philosophical, and religious speculation; "Elle et Lui"
and "Lucrezia Floriani" are the outcome of her relations with Musset and Chopin; the calm of
her later years is reflected in "La Petite Fadette," "François le Champi," and other charming
studies of rustic life; her "Histoire de ma Vie" and posthumous letters also deserve notice;
her work is characterised by a richly flowing style, an exuberant imagination, and is throughout
full of true colour and vivid emotion (1804-1876).

SANDEAU, LÉONARD JULES, French novelist, born at Aubusson; gave up law for literature; was
George Sands first "friend" in Paris, and wrote with her "Rose et Blanche"; contributed to
the Revue des Deux Mondes; wrote many novels and plays, and was elected to the Academy (1858),
and during his later life held the librarianship at St. Cloud (1811-1883).

SANDEMANIANS. See GLASSITES.

SANDERSON, BURDON, English physiologist; professor of Physiology first at University College,
London, and since 1882 at Oxford; is one of the greatest authorities on the subject; b. 1828.

SANDERSON, ROBERT, English prelate, great casuist; became chaplain to Charles I. in 1631, and
bishop of Lincoln in 1660 (1587-1663).

SANDHURST or BENDIGO (27), a mining city of Victoria, Australia, on Bendigo Creek, 101 m. NW.
of Melbourne; came into existence with the "gold rush" of 1851; mines are still of value; a
good trade in grain, brewing, iron-founding, &c., is also done.

SANDRINGHAM, an estate in Norfolk of over 7000 acres, 7½ m. NE. of Lynn, the property of the
Prince of Wales since 1862.

SANDWICH (3), one of the old CINQUE PORTS (q. v.) in Kent, on the Stour, and once on the sea,
but now, by the receding of the sea, 2 m. distant; 12 m. E. of Canterbury; an interesting place
of many historical associations; has a splendid golf course, which attracts summer visitors.

SANDWICH ISLANDS. See HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

SANGHA, the Buddhist Church, and the third term of the Triratna or Buddhist trinity, the two
other being Buddha and Dharma, his law.

SANGRAAL. See GRAAL, HOLY.

SANHEDRIM, a council of the Jews which held its sittings in Jerusalem, and claimed authority
and jurisdiction over the whole Jewish people; it was an aristocratic body, and was presided
over by the high-priest; its authority was limited from time to time, and it ceased to exist
with the fall of Jerusalem; there is no note of its existence prior to the Grecian period of
Jewish history.

SANKARA, a Hindu teacher of the philosophy or the Vedas, who lived some time between 800 and
200 B.C., and was the author of a number of commentaries on the sacred writings of the Hindus,
the teachings of which he contributed to develop.

SANKHYA, one of three systems of Hindu philosophy, Yoga and Vedânta being the other two, and
the system which is most in affinity with the doctrine of Buddha.

SANNAZARO, JACOPO, an Italian poet, enjoyed the favour of King Frederick III. of Naples, and
wrote amongst other things a pastoral medley in verse and prose called "Arcadia," which ranks
as an Italian classic (1458-1530).

SANS SOUCI (i. e. No Bother), "an elegant, commodious little 'country box,' one storey high,
on a pleasant hill-top near Potsdam"; the retreat of Frederick the Great after his wars were
over, and in part sketched by himself, and where he spent the last 40 years of his life, specially
as years advanced; it is 20 m. from Berlin, and the name is Frederick's own invention.

SANSCULOTTES (i. e. fellows without breeches), a name of contempt applied by the aristocratic
party in France to the Revolutionists, and at length accepted by the latter as a term of honour,
as men who asserted their claim to regard on their naked manhood.

SANSCULOTTISM, belief in the rights of man, stript of all the conventional vestures and badges
by which alone, and without any other ground of right, one man maintains an ascendency over
another.

SANSKRIT, the name given to the ancient literary language of the Hindus, still preserved in
their literature, belongs to the Aryan family of languages, in their purest form and most perfect
development.

SANTA-ANNA, ANTONIO DE, a noted soldier and President of Mexico, entered the army as a boy,
and from the proclamation of the Republic in 1822 till his final exile in 1867 was embroiled
in all the wars, intrigues, and revolutions of his country; was four times President, and on
the last occasion (1853) was appointed for life, but his habitual harshness alienated the people
in two years; fled the country as on many former crises in his life; intrigued against the
newly-established empire, but was captured and sentenced to death (1867); allowed to expatriate
himself, and died in exile; he was one of the most forceful characters in Mexican history (1795-1876).

SANTA CLAUS, contraction of ST. NICHOLAS (q. v.).

SANTA CRUZ or NITENDI (5), the largest of the Queen Charlotte or Santa Cruz Islands, in the
South Pacific, 100 m. N. of the New Hebrides; on one of the smaller islands Bishop Patteson
was brutally murdered by the natives in 1871.

SANTA CRUZ or ST. CROIX (20), one of the Virgin Islands; produces sugar, rum, and cotton; ceded
by France to Denmark in 1733; a serious nigger revolt took place in 1878; capital is Christianstadt
(6).

SANTA CRUZ or TENERIFFE (13), capital and chief seaport of the Canary Islands, situated on
the NE. side of Teneriffe; has an excellent and strongly-fortified harbour; is an important
coaling port for ocean steamers; cochineal, wine, and garden-produce are the chief exports.

SANTA FÉ, 1, on the Rio Solado, capital (15) of a rich agricultural province (240) of the Argentine
Republic, lying N. of Buenos Ayres. 2, Capital (7) of New Mexico, U.S.; holds an elevated site
amid the Rockies; is the centre of a good mining district; has the oldest Spanish cathedral
in the United States.

SANTALS, one of the aboriginal tribes of India, inhabiting a district in the province of Bengal,
which stretches southward from the Ganges; they are chiefly hunters, but also agriculturists;
dwell by the forest edges, are fond of music, and are sun-worshippers; number considerably
over a million.

SANTANDER (42), a flourishing port of North Spain, stands on a fine bay facing the Bay of Biscay,
316 m. N. of Madrid; actively engaged in cigar-making, brewing, cotton-spinning, flour-milling,
&c.; exports flour, wine, and cereals; a popular seaside resort.

SANTERRE, ANTOINE JOSEPH, a popular wealthy brewer, born in Paris; assisted at the fall of
the Bastille; played a conspicuous part during the Revolution; became commander of the National
Guard in 1792; proposed as a relief in famine that every citizen should live two days a week
on potatoes, and that every man should hang his dog; conducted King Louis into the judgment,
holding him by the arm; with a stamp of his foot ordered him to mount the guillotine; failed
in quelling the insurrection in La Vendée, and was recalled; was made brigadier-general by
Napoleon as a reward for keeping the peace which he would fain have disturbed on the 18th Brumaire
in 1797 (1752-1809).

SANTIAGO (393), capital of Chile, beautifully situated on a wide fertile and elevated plain
overhung on the N. and E. by the snow-clad peaks of the Andes, 90 m. SE. of Valparaiso; the
Mapocho, a mountain stream, passes through the N. part of the city, is handsomely laid out
with spacious plazas, a noble alameda, and well-paved streets; has many fine public buildings,
hotels, a cathedral, a university, art, agricultural, and military schools, botanical and zoological
gardens, &c.; in the pretty neighbourhood there is a popular racecourse; is an important commercial
centre, with a stock exchange, law-courts, and manufactures of cloth, flour, ships' biscuits,
beer, ice, &c.

SANTIAGO DE COMPOSTELLA (23), a city of Spain, in Galicia, of which it was formerly the capital,
26 m. NE. of Carril, on the coast; has an interesting old Romanesque cathedral, a noted place
of pilgrimage in the Middle Ages, a university, and several ruined monasteries; manufactures
linen, leather, &c.

SANTIAGO DE CUBA (71), formerly capital of Cuba, on a beautiful land-locked bay on the S. coast;
the harbour is strongly fortified; is the see of an archbishop, and has an old Spanish cathedral,
also flourishing sugar-factories, foundries, &c.

SANTLEY, CHARLES, a well-known baritone singer, born in Liverpool; studied at Milan; made his
début in 1857, and ever since has been an accepted favourite with the public both as an oratorio
and operatic singer; has published a volume of reminiscences; b. 1834.

SANTORIN or THERA (17), a volcanic island in the Ægean, one of the Cyclades; is the southmost
of the group, and lies 70 m. N. of Crete; the vine grows luxuriantly, and there is a good wine
trade; has many interesting prehistoric remains; chief town, Thera or Phera, on the W. coast.

SÃO FRANCISCO, one of the great rivers of Brazil, for the most part navigable; rises in the
SW., near the source of the Paraná, and flows N., NE., and SE. till it reaches the S. Atlantic
after a course of 1800 m., forming in its lower part the boundary between the maritime provinces
Sergipe and Alagoas; higher it divides Bahia and Pernambuco.

SÃO PAULO (35), a manufacturing town of Brazil (minerals, coffee); capital of a productive
and healthy State (1,387) of the same name, situated on a plain 310 m. W. by S. from Rio de
Janeiro; has pretty suburbs, electric light, &c.; is the chief centre of the Brazilian coffee
trade, and has manufactories of cotton, tobacco, spirits, &c.; is the seat of a law-school.

SAÔNE, a tributary of the Rhône; rises among the Faucelles Mountains, in Vosges, and flows
SW. and S. to the Rhône at Lyons; length 282 m., of which one-half is navigable.

SAÔNE, HAUTE- (281), a department in the E. of France, near the Alsace border, between Vosges
(N.) and Doubs (S.); forests abound; about one-half is under cultivation, and there are fine
cherry orchards; watered by the Saône and its affluents.

SAÔNE-ET-LOIRE (620), an east-midland department of France, bounded SE. and W. by the Saône
and Loire; has a fine fertile surface, and is noted for its cattle and abundant output of wine;
iron and coal are wrought, and its towns are busy with the manufacture of cotton goods, pottery,
machinery, &c.

SAPPHIRE, a precious stone of the corundum class, and differing from the RUBY (q. v.) only
in colour, which is a blue of various shades; the finest specimens are found in Ceylon; its
value depends chiefly on quality, and not so much (like the ruby) on size.

SAPPHO, a lyric poetess of Greece of the 7th century B.C., and a contemporary of Alcæus; was
a woman of strong passions and of questionable morality, but of undoubted genius, her lyrics
being among the masterpieces of antiquity, though only two of her odes and some short fragments
of others remain; of her history little is known, and what is known is far from reliable.

SARACENS, the name given in mediæval times to the Arabs or Mohammedans, and extended to all
the non-Christian races with whom the Crusaders or Christian races came to grips.

SARAGOSSA (95), an interesting city of Spain, and capital of Aragon, on the Ebro, which flows
through it, 212 m. NE. of Madrid; its history goes back to far Roman times, and includes fierce
struggles between Goths, Moors, and Spaniards, and a memorable siege by the French in 1808;
being one of the earliest Christian cities of Spain it contains many interesting relics, cathedrals,
&c.; there is a university, citadel, archiepiscopal palace, &c.; manufactures embrace cloth,
silks, leather, &c.

SARASATE, MARTIN MELITON, a Spanish violinist, and one of the most finished of the day, a Basque
by birth, but educated at Paris; has travelled over the world, winning fame and a fortune;
made his first appearance in London in 1874; is composer of some light pieces; b. 1844.

SARASVATI, a Hindu goddess, and ultimately the wife of Brahma and goddess of music and eloquence.

SARATOFF (122), a handsome city of Russia, on the Volga, 500 m. SE. of Moscow; has thriving
industries in distilling, flour, oil, and tobacco, and trades in corn, salt, textiles, &c.;
the government of Saratoff (2,433) is a prosperous agricultural district.

SARATOGA SPRINGS (12), one of the best-known watering-places of the United States, in New York
State, 38 m. N. of Albany; plentifully supplied with mineral springs; once a village, now growing
into a town of hotels, &c.; 12 m. to the E. is the scene of Burgoyne's surrender to Gates,
October 17, 1777.

SARA`WAK (320), a principality of North-West Borneo, fronting the Chinese Sea on the NW. and
contiguous to Dutch Borneo; was granted as an independent Rajahship to Sir James Brooke by
the sultan of Borneo in 1841, and governed by him and afterwards by his son, by whom it was
put under British protection in 1888; is very fertile, and grows sugar, coco-nuts, rice, sago,
rubber, tea, &c.; is rich in minerals, and mining is carried on of antimony, quicksilver, gold,
and coal; capital Kuching (25), on the Sarawak River.

SARDANAPÁLUS, the last king of Assyria; led a luxurious, effeminate life, but surprised when
at his ease by a large army of invaders he suddenly developed into a hero, till hard pressed
at length and shut up in Nineveh, and after two years' defence finding resistance hopeless,
he reared a funeral pile, and setting fire to it, threw himself upon it and perished in the flames.

SARDINIA (682), an island of the Mediterranean, 170 m. long and 75 m. broad, the second largest,
Sicily being larger, and to the S. of Corsica; is since 1859 part of the kingdom of Italy;
it has a fruitful soil, and presents a diversified surface of hill and valley; the chief export
is salt, and there are extensive fisheries; the capital is Cagliari, in the S.; it is rich
in mineral resources, but the exploitation of these is in a backward state.

SARDIS, capital of ancient Lydia, in Asia Minor, at the foot of Mount Tmolus, celebrated for
its wealth, its trade, and luxury, through the market-place of which the river Pactolus flowed
with its sands of gold.

SARDOU, VICTORIEN, a popular French playwright, born at Paris; gave up medicine for literature,
and his first successes were "Monsieur Garat" and "Les Prés Saint-Gervais," both in 1800; from
that date his popularity and wealth began to flow in upon him; his work has been taken up by
Sarah Bernhardt, for whom he wrote "Fédora," "Théodora," and "La Tosca" (1887); a number of
his plays have been translated into English, such as "A Scrap of Paper," "Diplomacy," &c.;
was elected to the Academy in 1877; his plays are characterised by clever dialogue and stage
effects, and an emotionalism rather French than English; b. 1831.

SARMATIANS or SARMATS, an ancient race, embracing several warlike nomadic tribes, who spoke
the Scythian language, and inhabited the shores of the Black Sea and Eastern Europe as far
as the Caucasus; fought with Mithridates against the Romans; were overwhelmed by the Goths
in the 4th century A.D., and afterwards gradually absorbed by the Slavs.

SARPEDON, the "Nestor" and king of the Lycians, was son of Zeus and Europa.

SARPI, PAUL, an Italian historian of the monastic order, born at Venice; was a man of wide
attainments and liberal views; was the champion of the Republic against the Pope; was summoned
to Rome, and on his refusal to obey, excommunicated; his life being in peril he retired into
his monastery, and wrote the "History of the Council of Trent," with which his name has ever
since been associated; he was held in high honour by the Venetians, and was honoured at his
death by a public funeral (1565-1623).

SARTO, ANDREO DEL (i. e. Andrew, the tailors son), a Florentine artist; painted in oil and
fresco numerous works; died of the plague at Florence, his work displays accuracy of drawing
and delicacy of feeling (1486-1531).

SARTOR RESARTUS (i. e. the tailor patched), a book written by Carlyle at CRAIGENPUTTOCK (q.
v.) in 1831, published piecemeal in Frazer's Magazine in 1833-34, and that first appeared in
a book form in America, under Emerson's auspices, in 1836, but not in England till 1838. It
professes to be on the PHILOSOPHY OF "CLOTHES" (q. v.), and is divided into three sections,
the first in exposition of the philosophy, the second on the life of the philosopher, and the
third on the practical bearings of his idea. It is a book in many respects unparalleled in
literature, and for spiritual significance and worth the most remarkable that has been written
in the century. It was written in the time and for the time by one who understood the time
as not another of his contemporaries succeeded in doing, and who interprets it in a light in
which every man must read it who would solve its problems to any purpose. Its style is an offence
to many, but not to any one who loves wisdom and has faith in God. For it is a brave book,
and a reassuring, as well as a wise, the author of it regarding the universe not as a dead
thing but a living, and athwart the fire deluges that from time to time sweep it, and seem
to threaten with ruin everything in it we hold sacred, descrying nothing more appalling than
the phoenix-bird immolating herself in flames that she may the sooner rise renewed out of her
ashes and soar aloft with healing in her wings. See CARLYLE, THOMAS, EXODUS FROM HOUNDSDITCH,
NATURAL SUPERNATURALISM, &C.

SASKATCHEWAN, one of the great and navigable rivers of Canada, rises among the Rockies in two
great branches, called respectively the North and South Saskatchewan, 770 and 810 m., which
flowing generally E., unite, and after a course of 282 m. pass into Lake Winnipeg, whence it
issues as the Nelson, and flows 400 m. NE. to Hudson's Bay. The upper branches traverse and
give their name to one of the western territories of Canada.

SASSARI (32), the second city of Sardinia, in the NW., prettily situated amid olive and orange
groves, 12 m. from the Gulf of Asinara; has an old cathedral, castle, and university, and does
a good trade in olive-oil, grain, &c.

SATAN, an archangel who, according to the Talmud, revolted against the Most High, particularly
when required to do homage to Adam, and who for his disobedience was with all his following
cast into the abyss of hell. See DEVIL.

SATANIC SCHOOL, name applied by Southey to a class of writers headed by Byron and Shelley,
because, according to him, their productions were "characterised by a Satanic spirit of pride
and audacious impiety," and who, according to Carlyle, wasted their breath in a fierce wrangle
with the devil, and had not the courage to fairly face and honestly fight him.

SATELLITES (lit. attendants), name given to the secondary bodies which revolve round the planets
of the solar system, of which the Earth has one, Mars two, Jupiter four, Saturn eight, Uranus
four, and Neptune is known to have at least one, as Venus is surmised to have.

SATIRE, a species of poetry or prose writing in which the vice or folly of the times is held
up to ridicule, a species in which Horace and Juvenal excelled among the Romans, and Dryden,
Pope, and Swift among us.

SATRAP, a governor of a province under the ancient Persian monarchy, with large military and
civil powers; when the central authority began to wane, some of them set up as independent rulers.

SATURN, in the Roman mythology a primitive god of agriculture in Italy, often confounded with
the Greek Kronos, the father of Zeus, and sovereign of the Golden Age; was represented as an
old man bearing a sickle.

SATURN, the planet of the solar system whose orbit is outside that of Jupiter, is 880 millions
of miles from the sun, round which it takes 10,759 days or nearly 30 years to revolve, revolving
on its own axis in about 10½ hours; its diameter is nine times greater than that of the earth;
it is surrounded by bright rings that appear as three, and is accompanied by eight moons; the
rings are solid, and are supposed to consist of a continuous belt of moons.

SATURNALIA, a festival in ancient Rome in honour of Saturn, in which all classes, free and
bond, and young and old, enjoyed and indulged in all kinds of merriment without restraint.

SATYRS, in the Greek mythology semi-animal woodland deities who roamed the hills generally
in the train of DIONYSUS (q. v.), dancing to rustic music; represented with long pointed ears,
flat noses, short horns, and a hair-clad man's body, with the legs and hoofs of a goat; they
are of lustful nature, and fond of sensual pleasure generally.

SAUERKRAUT, a favourite article of food in Germany and elsewhere in North Europe; formed of
thinly sliced young cabbage laid in layers, with salt and spice-seeds, pressed in casks and
allowed to ferment.

SAUERTEIG (i. e. leaven), an imaginary authority alive to the "celestial infernal" fermentation
that goes on in the world, who has an eye specially to the evil elements at work, and to whose
opinion Carlyle frequently appeals in his condemnatory verdict on sublunary things.

SAUL, a Benjamite, the son of Kish, who fell in with Samuel as he was on the way in search
of his father's asses that had gone astray, and from his stature and stately bearing was anointed
by him to be first king of Israel; he distinguished himself in the field against the enemies
of his people, but fell at the hands of the Philistines after a reign of 40 years, and after
several insane attempts on the life of David, who had been elected to succeed him.

SAUMAREZ, JAMES, BARON DE, English admiral, born at Guernsey; entered the navy at 13, distinguished
himself in the American War, captured a French frigate in 1793, which brought him knighthood;
was second in command at the battle of the Nile, and gained a great victory off Cadiz in 1801;
was raised to the peerage in 1831 (1757-1836).

SAUMUR (14), a town of France, in the department of Maine-et-Loire, situated on the Loire and
partly on an island in the river, 32 m. SE. of Angers; once famous for its Protestant theological
seminary, and till the Edict of Nantes a stronghold of the Huguenots; has interesting churches,
a castle (still used as an arsenal), and a noted cavalry school; has trade in grain, dried
fruits, rosaries, &c.

SAUSSURE, HORACE BENEDICT DE, geologist and physicist, born in Geneva; was the first to ascend
Mont Blanc in the interest of science, and was distinguished for his researches in the same
interest all over the Alps and on other mountain ranges; he invented or improved several scientific
instruments (1740-1799).

SAVAGE, RICHARD, English poet, with a worthless character, who gained the regard of Johnson;
his chief poem, "The Wanderer," of no poetic merit (1697-1743).

SAVANNAH, a name used chiefly in Florida and neighbouring States to designate the wide treeless
plains of these parts; is practically an equivalent for "pampa," "prairie," &c.; comes from
a Spanish word meaning "a sheet."

SAVANNAH (54), a city and port of the United States, capital of Chatham County, Georgia, on
the Savannah River, 18 m. from its mouth; well equipped with parks, electric light, handsome
churches, government buildings, &c., an important naval stores station and second cotton port
of the U.S., and has foundries, rice, flour, cotton, and paper-mills, &c.

SAVE, a tributary of the Danube, rises in the Julian Alps and flows SE. across Southern Austria
till it joins the Danube at Belgrade after a course of 556 m., of which 366 are navigable.

SAVIGNY, KARL VON, a German jurist, born in Frankfort-on-the-Main, of French parentage; wrote
a treatise on the Right of Property, became professor of Roman Law at Berlin; his chief works
were the "History of Roman Law in the Middle Ages" and the "History of Roman Law in Modern
Times" (1779-1861).

SAVILLE, SIR HENRY, a learned scholar, born in Yorkshire; was tutor to Queen Elizabeth and
provost of Eton, and founder of the Savilian professorships of Geometry and Astronomy at Oxford
(1549-1642).

SAVONA (24), a seaport of Italy, on the Gulf of Genoa, in the Riviera, 26 m. SW. of Genoa,
in the midst of orange groves, &c.; handsomely laid out; has a 16th-century cathedral, castle,
palace, picture gallery, &c.; exports pottery and has prosperous iron-works, glass-works, tanneries,
&c.

SAVONAROLA, GIROLAMO, Italian reformer, born at Ferrara of a noble family; was in his youth
of a studious ascetic turn, became at 24 a Dominican monk, was fired with a holy zeal for the
purity of the Church, and issued forth from his privacy to denounce the vices that everywhere
prevailed under her sanction, with threats of divine judgment on her head, so that the impressions
his denunciations made were deep and wide-spread; the effect was especially marked in Florence,
where for three years the reformer's influence became supreme, till a combination of enemies
headed by the Pope succeeded in subverting it to his ejection from the Church, his imprisonment,
and final execution, preceded by that of his confederates Fra Domenico and Fra Silvestro; it
was as a reformer of the morals of the Church and nowise of its dogmas that Savonarolo presented
himself, while the effect of his efforts was limited pretty much to his own day and generation
(1452-1498).

SAVOY, DUCHY OF (532), in the SE. of France, on the Italian frontier, comprises the two departments
of Haute-Savoie and Savoie; previous to 1860 constituted a province of the kingdom of Sardinia;
Lake of Geneva bounds it on the N. and the lofty Graian Alps flank it on the E., forming part
of the Alpine highlands; it is charmingly picturesque, with mountain, forest, and river (numerous
tributaries of the Rhône); has excellent grazing lands; grows the vine abundantly, besides
the usual cereals; the people are industrious and thrifty, but for the most part poor. Aix-les-Bains,
Evian, and Challes are popular watering-places. Chambéry was the old capital.

SAVOY, HOUSE OF, an ancient royal house of Europe (represented now by the king of Italy), whose
territorial possessions were constituted a county of the empire in the 12th century under the
name Savoy; was created a duchy in the 15th century. By the treaty of Utrecht (1713) the island
of Sicily was ceded to Savoy and the title of king bestowed upon the duke; in 1720 Victor Amadeus
II. was forced to cede Sicily to Austria in exchange for Sardinia, which with Savoy and Piedmont,
&c., constituted the kingdom of Sardinia till its dissolution in 1860, when Savoy was ceded
to France and the remaining portion merged in the new Italian kingdom under Victor Emmanuel.

SAVOY, THE, a district of the Strand, London, in which a palace was built in 1245 called of
the Savoy, in which John of France was confined after his capture at Poitiers; was burnt at
the time of the Wat Tyler insurrection, but rebuilt in 1505 as a hospital; it included a chapel,
which was damaged by fire in 1864, but restored by the Queen.

SAXE, MAURICE, marshal of France, natural son of Augustus II., king of POLAND (q. v.) distinguished
himself under various war captains, Marlborough and Prince Eugene in particular, and eventually
entered the service of France; commanding in the War of the Austrian Succession he took Prague
and Egra, and was made a marshal, and appointed to the command of the army of Flanders, in
which he gained victories and captured fortresses, and was thereafter loaded with honours by
Louis XV.; was one of the strongest and most dissolute men of his age; died of dropsy, the
result of his debaucheries (1698-1750).

SAXE-COBURG, DUKE OF, second son of the Queen, Duke of Edinburgh; married a daughter of Alexander
II., czar of Russia; succeeded to the dukedom in 1893; retains his annuity as an English prince
of £10,000; b. 1844.

SAXE-WEIMAR, AMALIA, DUCHESS OF, was of the Guelph family, and married to the duke, and in
two years was left a widow and in government of the duchy, attracting to her court all the
literary notabilities of the day, Goethe the chief, till in 1775 she resigned her authority
to her son, who followed in her footsteps (1739-1807).

SAXO GRAMMATICUS, a Danish chronicler who flourished in the 12th century; wrote "Gesta Danorum,"
which brings the history of Denmark down to the year 1158, and is in the later sections of
great value.

SAXON SWITZERLAND, name given to a mountainous region in Saxony, SE. of Dresden.

SAXONS, a people of the Teutonic stock who settled early on the estuary of the Elbe and the
adjoining islands, who in their piratical excursions infested and finally settled in Britain
and part of Gaul, and who, under the name of Anglo-Saxons, now hold sovereign sway over large
sections of the globe.

SAXONY (3,502), a kingdom of Germany, lies within the basin of the Elbe, facing on the E.,
between Bavaria (S.) and Prussia (N.), the mountainous frontier of Bohemia; a little less in
size than Yorkshire, but very densely inhabited; spurs of the Erzgebirge, Fichtelgebirge, and
Riesengebirge diversify the surface; is a flourishing mining and manufacturing country; Dresden
is the capital, and other important towns are Leipzig, Chemnitz, and Freiburg; the government
is vested in the king and two legislative chambers; is represented in the Reichstag and Reichsrath
of the empire; by the time of the Thirty Years' War the electorate of Saxony, which in its
heyday had stretched to the North Sea, and from the Rhine to the Elbe, had sadly dwindled away;
it suffered much at the hands of Frederick the Great during the Seven Years' War, and in 1815,
having sided with Napoleon, a portion of its territory was, by the Congress of Vienna, ceded
to Prussia; was defeated along with Austria in 1866, and thus joined the North German Confederation,
to be incorporated afterwards in the new German Empire.

SAXONY, PRUSSIAN (2,580), a province of Prussia, chiefly comprises that part of SAXONY (q.
v.) added to Prussia in 1815; situated in the centre of Prussia, N. of the kingdom of Saxony;
is watered by the Elbe and its numerous affluents, and diversified by the Harz Mountains and
Thuringian Forest; contains some of the finest growing land in Prussia; salt and lignite are
valuable products, and copper is also mined; the capital is Magdeburg, and other notable towns
are Halle (with its university), Erfurt, &c.

SAYCE, ALEXANDER HENRY, philologist, born near Bristol; has written works on the monuments
of the East, bearing chiefly on Old Testament history; b. 1846.

SCÆVOLA, CAIUS MUCIUS, a patriotic Roman who, when sentenced to be burnt alive by Lars Porsena
the Etrurian, then invading Rome, for attempting to murder him, unflinchingly held his right
hand in a burning brazier till it was consumed, as a mark of his contempt for the sentence.
Porsena, moved by his courage, both pardoned him, and on hearing that 300 as defiant had sworn
his death, made peace with Rome and departed. The name Scævola (i. e. left-handed) was given
him from the loss of his right hand on the occasion.

SCAFELL, a Cumberland mountain on the borders of Westmorland, with two peaks, one 3210 ft.,
and the other 3161 ft. high, the highest in England.

SCALE, DELFA, a prince of Verona, and a general of the Ghibellines in Lombardy, who offered
Dante an asylum when expelled from Florence (1291-1329).

SCALIGER, JOSEPH JUSTUS, eminent scholar, son of the following, born at Agen; educated by his
father; followed in his father's footsteps, and far surpassed him in scholarship; travelled
over Europe, and became a zealous Protestant; accepted the chair of belles lettres in the University
of Leyden on condition that he should not be called upon to lecture, and gave himself up to
a life of study, especially on matters philological and literary; was a man of universal knowledge,
and the creator of modern chronology (1540-1609).

SCALIGER, JULIUS CÆSAR, surnamed the Elder, classical scholar, became page to the Emperor Maximilian,
and served him in war and peace for 17 years; at 40 quitted the army, and took to study the
learned languages among other subjects; wrote a treatise on poetics and a commentary on the
physics and metaphysics of Aristotle, and became an authority on the Aristotelian philosophy
(1484-1558).

SCANDERBEG (i. e. Prince or Bey Alexander), the patriot chief of Albania, and the great hero
of Albanian independence, who in the 15th century renounced Islamism for Christianity, and
by his military prowess and skill freed Albania from the Turkish yoke; throughout his lifetime
maintained its independence, crushing again and again the Turkish armies; was known among the
Christians as George Castriot (1403-1468).

SCANDEROON or ALEXANDRETTA (2), the port of Aleppo, in Turkey in Asia, situated in the Gulf
of Scanderoon, in the NE. of the Levant, 77 m. NW. of Aleppo; is itself an insignificant place,
but has a large transit trade.

SCANDINAVIA, the ancient name (still used) of the great northern peninsula of Europe, which
embraces NORWAY (q. v.) and SWEDEN (q. v.); also used in a broader sense to include Denmark
and Iceland.

SCARBOROUGH (34), a popular seaside town and watering-place on the Yorkshire coast; built on
rising ground on the shores of a fine bay; is a place of great antiquity, with interesting
ruins; has churches, harbour, piers, and a fine promenade; noted for the manufacture of jet.

SCARPA, ANTONIO, Italian anatomist, professor at Pavia (1747-1832).

SCARRON, PAUL, a French humourist, writer of the burlesque, born, of good parentage, in Paris;
entered the Church, and was for some years somewhat lax-living abbé of Mans, but stricken with
incurable disease settled in Paris, and supported himself by writing; is chiefly remembered
for his "Virgile Travesti" and "Le Roman Comique," which "gave the impulse out of which sprang
the masterpieces of Le Sage, Defoe, Fielding, and Smollett"; married in 1652 Françoise d'Aubigné,
a girl of fifteen, afterwards the famous MADAME DE MAINTENON (q. v.); was a man who both suffered
much and laughed much (1610-1660).

SCATTERY ISLAND, in the Shannon estuary, 3 m. SW. of Kilrush; an early Christian place of pilgrimage,
with ruins and a "round tower"; is fortified and marked by a lighthouse.

SCEPTICISM, primarily doubt respecting, and ultimately disbelief in, the reality of the super-sensible,
or the transcendental, or the validity of the evidence on which the belief in it is founded,
such as reason or revelation, and in religious matters is tantamount to infidelity more or
less sweeping.

SCEPTRE, the symbol of royal power, power to command and compel, originally a club, the crown
being the symbol of dominion.

SCHADOW, JOHANNES GOTTFRIED, sculptor, born in Berlin; was trained in Rome under the best masters,
returned to Berlin, and became Director of the Academy of Arts; laboured here for 62 years,
and produced works which placed him among the first rank of artists; he had two sons, one of
whom distinguished himself as a sculptor, and the other as a painter (1764-1850).

SCHAFF, PHILIP, a theologian, born in Switzerland; studied in Germany; came recommended by
high names to the United States, and became professor first in Pennsylvania, and finally in
New York (1819-1893).

SCHAFFHAUSEN (38), a canton in the extreme N. of Switzerland, surrounded NE. and W. by Baden;
the Rhine flanks it on the S.; is hilly, with fertile valleys sloping to the Rhine, and is
chiefly given up to agriculture. The capital, Schaffhausen (19), occupies a picturesque site
on the Rhine, 31 m. NW. of Constance; has a 12th-century cathedral, an interesting old castle,
&c. The famous falls, the finest on the Rhine, are 3 m. below the town.

SCHÄFFLE, DR. ALBERT, eminent German economist, born in Würtemberg; has written, besides other
works, "The Quintessence of Socialism," an able exposé; b. 1831.

SCHALL, JOHANN ADAM VON, Jesuit missionary to China, born at Cologne; was received with honours
at the Imperial Court; obtained permission to preach, and founded churches to the spread of
Christianity, a privilege which was revoked by the next emperor; he was subjected to imprisonment,
which shortened his life (1591-1669).

SCHAMYL. See SHAMYL.

SCHARNHORST, GERHARD VON, a Prussian general, distinguished as the organiser of the Prussian
army, to the establishment of a national force instead of a mercenary; died of a wound in battle
(1756-1813).

SCHEELE, CARL WILHELM, Swedish chemist, born in Pomerania, was an apothecary at Upsala and
Köping; during his residence at the latter made numerous important discoveries, and published
many chemical papers, his chief work "Experiments on Air and Fire" (1742-1786).

SCHEFFEL, JOSEPH VICTOR VON, German poet, bred to law, but abandoned it for literature; his
first and best work "Der Trompeter von Sakkingen," a charming tale in verse of the Thirty Years'
War, succeeded by "Gaudeamus," a collection of songs and ballads familiar to the German students
all over the Fatherland (1826-1886).

SCHEFFER, ARY, painter, born at Dordrecht, of German and Dutch parentage; settled in Paris;
began as a genre-painter; illustrated Dante, Goethe, and Byron, and in the end painted religious
subjects; he did excellent portraits also; was of the Romantic school (1795-1858).

SCHEHERAZADE, daughter of the grand vizier, who, in the "Arabian Nights," marries the Sultan
and saves her life by entertaining him night after night with her tales.

SCHELDT, an important river of Belgium and Holland, rises in the French dep. of Aisne, and
flows northwards past Cambrai (its highest navigable point) and Valenciennes, entering Belgium
a little S. of Tournay and continuing northward, with Oudenarde, Ghent, and Antwerp on its
banks; enters Holland, and at the island of S. Beveland splits into the Wester Scheldt and
the Ooster Scheldt, which enter the North Sea, the former at Flushing, the latter at Bergen-op-Zoom;
length 267 m., much the greater part being in Belgium.

SCHELLING, FRIEDRICH WILHELM JOSEPH, German philosopher, born in Würtemberg; studied at Tübingen,
where he became acquainted with Hegel; wrote first on theological subjects and then on philosophical;
went to Jena and became a disciple and follower of Fichte; gradually abandoned Fichte's position
and began to develop ideas of his own, and in conjunction with Hegel edited the Critical Journal
of Philosophy; held afterwards a professorship at Münich and a lectureship at Berlin; his philosophy
is no finished or completed system, but is essentially a history of the progressive stages
through which he himself passed; during the reign of Hegel he kept silence, and only broke
it when Hegel was dead; thought to outstrip him by another philosophy, but the attempt has
proved fruitless of any important results (1775-1854).

SCHEMNITZ (15), a town of Hungary, noted as a mining centre since Roman times, situated in
the midst of a mountainous region, 65 m. N. by W. of Pesth; gold, silver, copper, and lead
are largely wrought, chiefly in the interests of the State.

SCHENKEL, DAVID, German theologian, born in Switzerland, became, after a pastorate at Schaffhausen,
professor first at Basel and then at Heidelberg; was a man of liberal principles, and was zealous
for the union of the Protestants, Lutheran and Reformed, in one body on a broad basis; is noted
as author of a work entitled "Das Characterbild Jesu," being an attempt to construe the character
of Christ on rationalistic lines (1813-1885).

SCHERER, EDMOND, French critic, born in Paris, spent his early years in England, his mother
being English; was for some time devoted to theology and the Church, but changed his views;
settled in Paris, and took to journalism and politics, distinguishing himself more especially
in literary criticism (1815-1889).

SCHILLER, FRIEDRICH, German poet and dramatist, born at Marbach on the Neckar, son of an army-surgeon;
bred first to law and then to medicine, but took chief interest in philosophy and literature,
to the cultivation of which he by-and-by devoted his life; his first work, a play, "The Robbers,"
which on its publication in 1782 produced quite a ferment, and was followed in 1783 by two
tragedies, "Fresco" and "Kabale und Liebe"; but it was with "Don Carlos" in 1787 his mature
authorship began, and this was followed by the "History of the Netherlands" and "History of
the Thirty Years' War," to be succeeded by "Wallenstein" (1799), "Maria Stuart" (1800), "The
Maid of Orleans" (1801), "The Bride of Messina" (1803), and "Wilhelm Tell" (1804); he Wrote
besides a number of ballads and lyrics; in 1794 his friendship with Goethe began, and it was
a friendship which was grounded on their common love for art, and lasted with life; he was
an earnest man and a serious writer, and much beloved by the great Goethe (1759-1805). See
CARLYLE'S "LIFE OF SCHILLER," and his essay on him in his "MISCELLANIES."

SCHLEGEL, AUGUST WILHELM VON, German man of letters, born at Hanover; studied theology at first,
but turned to literature and began with poetry; settled in Jena, and in 1798 became professor
of Fine Arts there; was associated in literary work with Madame de Staël for 14 years; delivered
"Lectures on Dramatic Art and Literature" at Vienna in 1708, and finished with a professorship
of Literature at Bonn, having previously distinguished himself by translations into German
of Shakespeare, Dante, &c.; he devoted himself to the study of Sanskrit when at Bonn, where
he had Heine for pupil (1767-1845).

SCHLEGEL, FRIEDRICH VON, German critic and author, born at Hanover, brother of preceding, joined
his brother at Jena, and collaborated with him; became a zealous promoter of all the Romantic
movements, and sought relief for his yearnings in the bosom of the Catholic Church; wrote lectures,
severally published, on the "Philosophy of History," of "Literature," of "Life," and on "Modern
History," and book on Sanskrit and the philosophy of India (1772-1829).

SCHLEICHER, AUGUST, German philologist, did eminent service by his studies in the Indo-Germanic
languages, and particularly in the Slavonic languages (1821-1868).

SCHLEIERMACHER, FRIEDRICH ERNEST DANIEL, great German theologian, born at Breslau; brought
up among the Moravians, his mind revolted against the narrow orthodoxy of their creed, which
was confirmed by his study of Plato and the philosophy of the school of Kant, as it for him
culminated in Schelling, though the religious feeling he inherited never left him; under these
influences he addressed himself to the task of elaborating a theology in which justice should
be done to the claims of the intellect and the emotions of the heart, and he began by translating
Plato; soon he formed a school, which included among its members men such as Neander and others,
distinguished at once for their learning and their piety, and to which all the schools of theology
in Germany since have been more or less affiliated; his great merit lay in the importance he
attached to the religious consciousness as derived from that of Christ, and the development
therefrom in the life and history of the Church of Christ; it was to the religious interest
he dedicated his life and consecrated all his learning, which was immense (1768-1834).

SCHLEMIHL, PETER, the name of a man who in Chamisso's tale sold his shadow to the devil, a
synonym of one who makes a desperate or silly bargain.

SCHLIEMANN, HEINRICH, a German explorer, born in Mecklenburg-Schwerin; excavated at his own
cost the ruins, among others in Greece, of Hissarlik, in the Troad, believing them to be those
of Troy; spent 12 years in this enterprise, collecting the spoils and depositing them in safe
keeping in Berlin; died at Naples before his excavations were complete (1822-1890).

SCHLOSSNER, FRIEDRICH CHRISTOPH, German historian, born in Oldenburg; was studios of the moral
factor in history, and gave especial prominence to it (1776-1861).

SCHMALKALDIC LEAGUE, a league of the Protestant States of Germany concluded in 1531 at Schmalkalden,
Prussia, in defence of their religious and civil liberties against the Emperor Charles V. and
the Catholic States.

SCHNITZER, EDUARD, physician, born in Breslau; went to Turkey, entered the Turkish medical
service, adopted the name Emin Pasha, and was appointed by Gordon medical officer of the Equatorial
Province of Egypt, and raised to the rank of Pasha; soon after the outbreak of the Mahdist
insurrection he was cut off from civilisation, but was discovered by Stanley in 1889 and brought
to Zanzibar, after which he was murdered by Arabs (1840-1893).

SCHOLASTICISM, the name given to the philosophy that prevailed in Europe during the Middle
Ages, particularly in the second half of them, and has been generally characterised as an attempt
at conciliation between dogma and thought, between faith and reason, an attempt to form a scientific
system on that basis, founded on the pre-supposition that the creed of the Church was absolutely
true, and capable of rationalisation.

SCHOLIASTS, name given to a class of grammarians who appended annotations to the margins of
the MSS. of the classics.

SCHOLIUM, a marginal note explanatory of the text of a classic author.

SCHOLTEN, HENDRIK, a Dutch theologian of the rationalistic school (1811-1885).

SCHOMBERG, DUKE OF, French marshal, of German origin and the Protestant persuasion; took service
under the Prince of Orange, and fell at the battle of the Boyne (1618-1690).

SCHÖNBRUNN, imperial palace near Vienna, built by Maria Theresa in 1744.

SCHOOLCRAFT, HENRY ROWE, a noted American ethnologist, born in New York State; at 24 was geologist
to an exploring expedition undertaken by General Cass to Lake Superior and the Upper Mississippi;
married the educated daughter of an Ojibway chief; founded the Historical Society of Michigan
and the Algic Society at Detroit; discovered the sources of the Mississippi in 1832; was an
active and friendly agent for the Indians, and in 1847 began, under Government authorisation,
his great work of gathering together all possible information regarding the Indian tribes of
the United States, an invaluable work embodied in six great volumes; author also of many other
works treating of Indian life, exploration, etc. (1793-1864).

SCHOOLMEN, teachers of the SCHOLASTIC PHILOSOPHY (q. v.).

SCHOPENHAUER, ARTHUR, a bold metaphysical thinker, born in Danzig, of Dutch descent; was early
dissatisfied with life, and conceived pessimistic views of it; in 1814 jotted down in a note-book,
"Inward discord is the very bane of human nature so long as a man lives," and on this fact
he brooded for years; at length the problem solved itself, and the solution appears in his
great work, "Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung" ("The World as Will and Idea"), which he published
in 1718; in it, as in others of his writings, to use the words of the late Professor Wallace
of Oxford, Schopenhauer "draws close to the great heart of life, and tries to see clearly what
man's existence and hopes and destiny really are, which recognises the peaceful creations of
art as the most adequate representation the sense-world can give of the true inward being of
all things, and which holds the best life to be that of one who has pierced, through the illusions
dividing one conscious individuality from another, into that great heart of eternal rest where
we are each members one of another essentially united in the great ocean of Being, in which,
and by which, we alone live." Goethe gives a similar solution in his "Wilhelm Meister"; is
usually characterised as a pessimist, and so discarded, but such were all the wise men who
have contributed anything to the emancipation of the world, which they never would have attempted
but for a like sense of the evil at the root of the world's misery; and as for his philosophy,
it is a protest against treating it as a science instead of an art which has to do not merely
with the reasoning powers, but with the whole inmost nature of man (1788-1860).

SCHOUVALOFF, COUNT PETER, a Russian ambassador, born at St. Petersburg; became in 1806 head
of the secret police; came to England in 1873 on a secret mission to arrange the marriage of
the Emperor Alexander II.'s daughter with the Duke of Edinburgh; was one of Russia's representatives
at the Congress of Berlin (1827-1889). His brother, Count Paul, fought in the Crimean War,
helped to liberate the Russian serfs, fought in the Russo-Turkish War, and was governor of
Warsaw during 1895-1897; b. 1830.

SCHREINER, OLIVE, authoress, daughter of a Lutheran clergyman at Cape Town; achieved a great
success by "The Story of an African Farm" in 1883, which was followed in 1890 by "Dreams,"
also later "Dream Life and Real Life"; she is opposed to the South African policy of Mr. Rhodes.

SCHREINER, RIGHT HON. W. P., Premier of the Cape Parliament, brother of preceding; bred to
the bar, favours arbitration in the South African difficulty, and is a supporter of the Africander
Bond in politics.

SCHUBERT, FRANZ PETER, composer, born, the son of a Moravian schoolmaster, at Vienna; at 11
was one of the leading choristers in the court-chapel, later on became leading violinist in
the school band; his talent for composition in all modes soon revealed itself, and by the time
he became an assistant in his father's school (1813) his supreme gift of lyric melody showed
itself in the song "Erl King," the "Mass in F," etc.; his too brief life, spent chiefly in
the drudgery of teaching, was harassed by pecuniary embarrassment, embittered by the slow recognition
his work won, though he was cheered by the friendly encouragement of Beethoven; his output
of work was remarkable for its variety and quantity, embracing some 500 songs, 10 symphonies,
6 masses, operas, sonatas, etc.; his abiding fame rests on his songs, which are infused, as
none other are, by an intensity of poetic feeling--"divine fire" Beethoven called it (1797-1828).

SCHULZE-DELITZSCH, HERMANN, founder of the system of "people's savings-banks," born at Delitzsch,
and trained to the law; he settled in his native town and give himself to social reform, sat
in the National Assembly in Berlin on the Progressionist side, but opposed Lasalle's socialistic
programme; his project of "people's savings-banks" was started in 1850, and immediately took
root, spreading over the country and into Austria, Italy, Belgium, etc. (1808-1883).

SCHUMANN, ROBERT, an eminent German composer and musical critic, born at Zwickau, in Saxony;
law, philosophy, and travel occupied his early youth, but in 1831 he was allowed to follow
his bent for music, and settled to study it at Leipzig; two years later started a musical paper,
which for more than 10 years was the vehicle of essays in musical criticism; during these years
appeared also his greatest pianoforte works, songs, symphonies, and varied chamber music; "Paradise
and the Part" and scenes from "Faust" appeared in 1843; symptoms of cerebral disease which
in the end proved fatal, began to manifest themselves, and he withdrew to a quieter life at
Dresden, where much of his operatic and other music was written; during 1850-54 he acted as
musical director at Düsseldorf, but insanity at length supervened, and after attempting suicide
in the Rhine he was placed in an asylum, where he died two years later; his work is full of
the fresh colour and variety of Romanticism, his songs being especially beautiful (1810-1856).

SCHÜRER, EMIL, biblical scholar, born at Augsburg, professor of Theology at Kiel, author of
"History of the Jewish People"; b. 1844.

SCHUYLER, PHILIP JOHN, leader in the American War of Independence, born at Albany, of Dutch
descent; served in arms under Washington, and health failing for action, became one of Washington's
most sagacious advisers (1733-1804).

SCHUYLKILL, a river of Pennsylvania, rises on the N. side of the Blue Mountains and flows SE.
130 m. to its junction with the Delaware River at Philadelphia; is an important waterway for
the coal-mining industry of Pennsylvania.

SCHWANN, THEODOR, German physiologist, born at Neuss; made several discoveries in physiology,
and established the cell theory (1810-1882).

SCHWANTHALER, LUDWIG, German sculptor, born at Münich, of an old family of sculptors; studied
at Rome; has adorned his native city with his works both in bas-reliefs and statues, at once
in single figures and in groups; did frescoes and cartoons also (1802-1848).

SCHWÄRMEREI (lit. going off in swarms, as bees under their queen), name given to a more or
less insane enthusiasm with which a mass of men is affected.

SCHWARZ, BERTHOLD, an alchemist of the 13th century, born at Fribourg, a monk of the order
of Cordeliers; is credited with the discovery of gunpowder when making experiments with nitre.

SCHWARZ, CHRISTIAN FRIEDRICH, German missionary in India, born in Brandenburg; laboured 16
years at Trichinopoly, gained the friendship of the Rajah of Tanjore, and settled there in
1778; succeeded also in winning the favour of Hyder Ali of Mysore, and proved himself to be
in all senses a minister of the gospel of peace (1726-1798).

SCHWARZBURG, HOUSE OF, one of the oldest noble families of Germany; first comes into authentic
history in the 12th century with Count Sizzo IV. (the first to take the title of Schwarzburg),
and in the 16th century divides into the two existing branches, the Schwarzburg-Sondershausen
and Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt--which give their names to two sovereign principalities of Central
Germany wedged in between Prussia and the lesser Saxon States, the latter embracing part of
the Thuringian Forest; both are prosperous agricultural and mining regions.

SCHWARZENBURG, KARL PHILIP, PRINCE VON, Austrian general, born at Vienna, of a noble family
there; entered the army and distinguished himself in the wars against the Turks, the French
Republic, and Napoleon; fought at Austerlitz and Wagram, negotiated the marriage of Napoleon
with Maria Louisa, commanded the Austrian contingent sent to aid France in 1812, but joined
the allies against Napoleon at Dresden and Leipzig, and captured Paris in 1814 at the head
of the army of the Rhine (1771-1820).

SCHWARZWALD, the Black Forest in Germany.

SCHWEGLER, ALBERT, theologian, born at Würtemberg; treated first on theological subjects, then
on philosophical; is best known among us by his "History of Philosophy," translated into English
by Dr. Hutcheson Stirling, "written, so to speak, at a single stroke of the pen, as, in the
first instance, an article for an encyclopædia," ... the author being "a remarkably ripe, full
man" (1819-1857).

SCHWEINFURTH, GEORG AUGUST, German traveller in Africa, born at Riga; wrote "The Heart of Africa,"
which gives an account of his travels among the mid-African tribes; b. 1836.

SCHWENCKFELD, CASPAR VON, a Protestant sectary, born in Lower Silesia, of a noble family; as
a student of the Scriptures embraced the Reformation, but differed from Luther on the matter
of the dependence of the divine life on external ordinances, insisting, as George Fox afterwards
did, on its derivation from within; like Fox he travelled from place to place proclaiming this,
and winning not a few disciples, and exposed himself to much persecution at the hands of men
of whom better things were to be expected, but he bore it all with a Christ-like meekness;
died at Ulm; his writings were treated with the same indignity as himself, and his followers
were after his death driven from one place of refuge to another, till the last remnant of them
found shelter under the friendly wing of COUNT ZINZENDORF (q. v.) (1490-1561).

SCHWERIN (34), capital of the grand-duchy of Mecklenburg-Schwerin; has a pretty site on Lake
of Schwerin (14 m. by 3), 47 m. SE. of Lübeck; has a 14th-century cathedral, Renaissance castle,
arsenal, &c., and manufactures of lacquered ware, machinery, &c.

SCHWYZ (50), one of the three original cantons of Switzerland, German speaking and Catholic;
Lake Zurich forms part of the N. border, and Lake Lucerne part of the S.; Zug with its lake
is on the W.; is mountainous, but good pasturage favours cattle-breeding, sheep and goat rearing,
&c.; important industries in cotton and silk are carried on; Einsiedeln, with its famous monastery,
attracts thousands of pilgrims, and the Rigi is a favourite resort of summer visitors. The
capital (7), same name, is prettily situated 26 m. E. of Lucerne.

SCIENCE, as it has been said, "has for its province the world of phenomena, and deals exclusively
with their relations, consequences, or sequences. It can never tell us what a thing really
and intrinsically is, but only why it has become so; it can only, in other words, refer us
to one inscrutable as the ground and explanation of another inscrutable." "A science," says
Schopenhauer, "anybody can learn, one perhaps with more, another with less trouble; but from
art each receives only so much as he brings, yet latent within him.... Art has not, like science,
to do merely with the reasoning powers, but with the inmost nature of man, where each must
count only for what he really is."

SCILLY ISLANDS, a rugged group of islands belonging to Cornwall, 27 m. SW. of Land's End; consists
of six larger islands--St. Mary's (1528 acres, pop. 1200), the largest--and some 30 smaller,
besides numerous rock clusters, the name Scilly being strictly applicable to a rocky islet
in the NW. of the group; climate is damp and mild; the cultivation and export of large quantities
of lilies is the principal industry, but generally industries have decayed, lighthouses have
reduced greatly the hereditary occupation of pilotage, and emigration goes on; the only town
is Hugh Town (with two hotels, banks, pier, &c.), on St. Mary's; there are some interesting
ecclesiastical ruins, &c.; since 1834 much has been done to improve the condition of the islanders
by the then proprietor Mr. A. J. Smith, and his nephew, T. A. Darien Smith, who succeeded in 1872.

SCIOPPIUS, CASPAR, a Protestant renegade, born in the Palatinate; turned Catholic on a visit
to Rome, and devoted his life to vilify his former co-religionists, and to invoke the Catholic
powers to combine to their extermination; he was a man of learning, but of most infirm temper
(1576-1649).

SCIPIO, P. CORNELIUS, THE ELDER, surnamed Africanus Major, a celebrated Roman general; was
present at the engagement near the Tacinus and at Cannæ; was appointed proconsul of Spain at
the age of 24, and made himself master of nearly the whole of it against the Carthaginians;
on his return to Rome was made consul; transferred the seat of war against Carthage to Africa,
and landed at Utica; met Hannibal on the field of Zama, and totally defeated him, and ended
the Second Punic War in 202 B.C. (234-183 B.C.).

SCIPIO, P. CORNELIUS, THE YOUNGER, surnamed Africanus Minor, adopted by the preceding, the
proper name being L. Paullus Æmelius; after distinguishing himself in Spain proceeded to Africa
to take part in the Third Punic War; laid siege to Carthage, took it by storm, and levelled
it with the ground in 146 B.C.; he was afterwards sent to Spain, where he captured Numantia
after a stubborn resistance, to the extension of the sway of Rome; he was an upright and magnanimous
man, but his character was not proof against assault; he died by the hand of an assassin.

SCONE (pronounced Scoon), a, village in Perthshire, on the left bank of the Tay, 2 m. N. of
Perth; once the capital of the Pictish kingdom, and the place of the coronation of the Scottish
kings; near it is the seat of the Earl of Mansfield.

SCOPAS, Greek sculptor, born at Paros, who flourished in 4th century B.C.

SCORESBY, WILLIAM, scientist, born at Whitby; began life as a sailor; visited the Arctic regions
twice over, and wrote an account of his explorations; took to the Church, and held several
clerical charges, but retired in 1849, and gave himself to scientific researches, both at home
and abroad (1787-1857).

SCORY, JOHN, a Cambridge Dominican friar in 1530, who became bishop of Rochester in 1551, and
later of Chichester; was deprived of his living on Queen Mary's accession; recanted, but fled
abroad, whence he issued his "Epistle to the Faytheful in Pryson in England"; returned in Elizabeth's
reign, and became bishop of Hereford; d. 1585.

SCOT, REGINALD, author of a famous work, "The Discoverie of Witchcraft" (1584), remarkable
as one of the earliest exposures of the absurdities of witchcraft and kindred superstitions,
which provoked King James's foolish defence "Dæmonology"; son of a Kentish baronet; educated
at Oxford, and spent a peaceful life gardening and studying; wrote also "The Hoppe Garden"
(1538-1599).

SCOTLAND (4,026), the northern portion of the island of Great Britain, separated from England
by the Solway, Cheviots, and Tweed, and bounded N. and W. by the Atlantic and E. by the German
Ocean; inclusive of 788 islands (600 uninhabited), its area, divided into 33 counties, is slightly
more than one-half of England's, but has a coast-line longer by 700 m.; greatest length from
Dunnet Head (most northerly point) to Mull of Galloway (most southerly) is 288 m., while the
breadth varies from 32 to 175, Buchan Ness being the eastmost point and Ardnamurchan Point
the westmost; from rich pastoral uplands in the S.--Cheviots, Moffat Hills, Lowthers, Moorfoots,
and Lammermoors--the country slopes down to the wide, fertile lowland plain--growing fine crops
of oats barley, wheat, &c.--which stretches, with a varying breadth of from 30 to 60 m., up
to the Grampians (highest peak Ben Nevis, 4406 ft.), whence the country sweeps northwards,
a wild and beautiful tract of mountain, valley, and moorland, diversified by some of the finest
loch and river scenery in the world; the east and west coasts present remarkable contrasts,
the latter rugged, irregular, and often precipitous, penetrated by long sea-lochs and fringed
with numerous islands, and mild and humid in climate; the former low and regular, with few
islands or inlets, and cold, dry, and bracing; of rivers the Tweed, Forth, Tay, Dee, and Clyde
are the principal, and the Orkneys, Shetlands, and Hebrides the chief island groups; coal and
iron abound in the lowlands, more especially in the plain of the Forth and Clyde, and granite
in the Grampians; staple industries are the manufacture of cottons, woollens, linen, jute,
machinery, hardware, paper, and shipbuilding, of which Glasgow is the centre and commercial
metropolis, while Edinburgh (capital) is the chief seat of law, education, &c.; of cultivated
land the percentage varies from 74.8 in Fife to 2.4 in Sutherland, and over all is only 24.2;
good roads, canals, extensive railway and telegraph systems knit all parts of the country together;
Presbyterianism is the established form of religion, and in 1872 the old parish schools were
supplanted by a national system under school-boards similar to England; the lowlanders and
highlanders still retain distinctive characteristics of their Teutonic and Celtic progenitors,
the latter speaking in many parts of the Highlands their native Gaelic; originally the home
of the PICTS (q. v.), and by them called Alban or Albyn, the country, already occupied as far
as the Forth and Clyde by the Romans, was in the 5th century successfully invaded by the Scots,
a Celtic tribe from Ireland; in 843 their king Kenneth was crowned king of Picts and Scots,
and by the 10th century the country (known to the Romans as Caledonia) began to be called Scotia
or Scotland; government and power gradually centred in the richer lowlands, which, through
contact with England, and from the number of English immigrants, became distinctively Anglo-Saxon;
since the Union with ENGLAND (q. v.) the prosperity of Scotland has been of steady and rapid
growth, manufactures, commerce, and literature (in all branches) having flourished wonderfully.

SCOTS, THE, a tribe of Celts from Ireland who settled in the W. of North Britain, and who,
having gained the ascendency of the Picts in the E., gave to the whole country the name of
Scotland.

SCOTT, DAVID, Scotch painter, born in Edinburgh; he was an artist of great imaginative power,
and excelled in the weird; his best picture, exhibited in 1828, was "The Hopes of Early Genius
Dispelled by Death," though his first achievements in art were his illustrations of the "Ancient
Mariner"; but his masterpiece is "Vasco da Gama encountering the Spirit of the Cape"; he was
a sensitive man, and disappointment hastened his death (1806-1849).

SCOTT, SIR GEORGE GILBERT, English architect, born in Buckinghamshire, son of Scott the commentator;
was the builder or restorer of buildings both in England and on the Continent after the Gothic,
and wrote several works on architecture.

SCOTT, MICHAEL, a sage with the reputation of a wizard, who lived about the end of the 12th
and beginning of the 13th centuries, of whose art as a magician many legends are related.

SCOTT, THOMAS, commentator, born in Lincolnshire; became rector of Aston Sandford, Bucks; was
a Calvinist in theology, author of the "Force of Truth" and "Essays on Religion," the work
by which he is best known being his "Commentary on the Bible," a scholarly exposition (1747-1821).

SCOTT, SIR WALTER, the great romancer, born in Edinburgh, through both father and mother of
Scottish Border blood; his father, a lawyer, a man "who passed from the cradle to the grave
without making an enemy or losing a friend," his mother a little kindly woman, full of most
vivid memories, awakening an interest in him to which he owed much; was a healthy child, but
from teething and other causes lost the use of his right limb when 18 months old, which determined,
to a marked extent, the course of his life; spent many of the months of his childhood in the
country, where he acquired that affection for all natural objects which never left him, and
a kindliness of soul which all the lower animals that approached him were quick to recognise;
he was from the first home-bred, and to realise the like around his own person was his fondest
dream, and if he failed, as it chanced he did, his vexation was due not to the material loss
it involved, but to the blight it shed on his home life and the disaster on his domestic relationships;
his school training yielded results of the smallest account to his general education, and a
writer of books himself, he owed less to book-knowledge than his own shrewd observation; he
proceeded from the school (the High School, it was) at 15 to his father's office and classes
at the University, and at both he continued to develop his own bent more than the study of
law or learning; at his sixteenth year the bursting of a blood-vessel prostrated him in bed
and enforced a period of perfect stillness, but during this time he was able to prosecute sundry
quiet studies, and laid up in his memory great stores of knowledge, for his mind was of that
healthy quality which assimilated all that was congenial to it and let all that did not concern
it slip idly through, achieving thereby his greatest victory, that of becoming an altogether
whole man. Professionally he was a lawyer, and a good lawyer, but the duties of his profession
were not his chief interest, and though he received at length a sheriffship worth £300 a year,
and a clerkship to the court worth £1500, he early turned his mind to seek promotion elsewhere,
and chose a literary career. His first literary efforts were translations in verse from the
German, but his first great literary success was the publication, in 1802, of "The Minstrelsy
of the Scottish Border," and in this he first gave evidence both of the native force and bent
of his genius; it gave the keynote of all that subsequently proceeded from his pen. This was
followed the same year by "Cadzow Castle," a poem instinct with military ardour, and this by
"The Lay of the Last Minstrel" in 1805; the first poem which gained him popular favour, by
"Marmion" in 1808, and by "The Lord of the Isles" in 1814. Much as the rise of Scott's fame
was owing to his poetical works, it is on the ground of his prose writings, as the freest and
fullest exhibition of his genius, that it is now mainly founded. The period of his productivity
in this line extended over 18 years in all, commencing with the year 1814. "The Bride of Lammermoor,"
"Ivanhoe," "The Monastery," "The Abbot," "Kenilworth," and "The Pirate" belong to the years
that succeeded that illness, and all more or less witness to its sorrowful effects, of which
last "The Abbot" and "The Monastery" are reckoned the best, as still illustrating the "essential
powers" of Scott, to which may be added "Redgauntlet" and "The Fortunes of Nigel," characterised
by Ruskin as "quite noble ones," together with "Quentin Durward" and "Woodstock," as "both
of high value." Sir Walter's own life was, in its inner essence, an even-flowing one, for there
were in it no crises such as to require a reversal of the poles of it, and a spiritual new
birth, with crucifixion of the old nature, and hence it is easily divisible, as it has been
divided throughout, into the three natural periods of growth, activity, and death. His active
life, which ranges from 1796 to 1826, lay in picturing things and traditions of things as in
youth, a 25 years' period of continuous crescent expansiveness, he had learned to view them,
and his slow death was the result, not of mere weariness in working, but of the adverse circumstances
that thwarted and finally wrecked the one unworthy ambition that had fatally taken possession
of his heart. (1771-1832).

SCOTT, WILLIAM BELL, painter and poet, brother of David Scott, born in Edinburgh; did criticism
and wrote on artists; is best known by his autobiography (1811-1890).

SCRANTON (102), capital of Lackawanna County, Pennsylvania, on the Lackawanna River, 144 m.
NW. of New York; does a large trade in coal, and is the centre of a busy steel, iron, and machinery
industry.

SCRIBE, EUGENE, French dramatist, a prolific and a successful, who produced plays for half
a century, well adapted for the stage, if otherwise worthless (1791-1861).

SCRIBES, THE (i. e. writers), a non-priestly class among the Jews devoted to the study and
exposition of the Law, and who rose to a position of importance and influence in the Jewish
community, were known in the days of Christ also by the name of Lawyers, and were addressed
as Rabbis; their disciples were taught to regard them, and did regard them with a reverence
superior to that paid to father or mother, the spiritual parent being reckoned as much above
the natural, as the spirit and its interests are above the flesh and its interests.

SCRIBLERUS, MARTINUS, the subject of a fictitious memoir published in Pope's works and ascribed
to ARBUTHNOT (q. v.), intended to ridicule the pedantry which affects to know everything, but
knows nothing to any purpose.

SCRIVENER, FREDERICK HENRY AMBROSE, New Testament critic, born at Bermondsey, Surrey, educated
at Cambridge; head-master of Falmouth School from 1846 to 1856, and after 15 years' rectorship
of Gerrans, became vicar of Hendon and prebendary of Exeter; his "Plain Introduction to the
Criticism of the New Testament" ranks as a standard work; was editor of the Cambridge Paragraph
Bible, and one of the New Testament revisers (1813-1891).

SCROGGS, SIR WILLIAM, an infamous Judge of Charles II.'s reign, who became Chief-Justice of
the King's Bench in 1678, and whose name is associated with all manner of injustice and legal
corruption; was impeached in 1680, and pensioned off by the king; d. 1683.

SCUDÉRY, MADELEINE DE, French novelist, born at Havre, came to Paris in her youth, and there
lived to an extreme old age; was a prominent figure in the social and literary life of the
city; collaborated at first with her brother Georges, but subsequently was responsible herself
for a set of love romances of an inordinate length, but of great popularity in their day, e.
g. "Le Grand Cyrus" and "Clélie," &c., in which a real gift for sparkling dialogue is swallowed
up in a mass of improbable adventures and prudish sentimentalism (1607-1701).

SCULPTURED STONES, a name specially applied to certain varieties of commemorative monuments
(usually rough-hewn slabs or boulders, and in a few cases well-shaped crosses) of early Christian
date found in various parts of the British Isles, bearing lettered and symbolic inscriptions
of a rude sort and ornamental designs resembling those found on Celtic MSS. of the Gospels;
lettered inscriptions are in Latin, OGAM (q. v.), and Scandinavian and Anglican runes, while
some are uninscribed; usually found near ancient ecclesiastical sites, and their date is approximately
fixed according to the character of the ornamentation; some of these stones date as late as
the 11th century; the Scottish stones are remarkable for their elaborate decoration and for
certain symbolic characters to which as yet no interpretation has been found.

SCUTARI (50), a town of Turkey in Asia, on the Bosporus, opposite Constantinople; has several
fine mosques, bazaars, &c.; large barracks on the outskirts were used as hospitals by Florence
Nightingale during the Crimean War; has large and impressive cemeteries; chief manufactures
are of silks, cottons, &c. Also name of a small town (5) in European Turkey, situated at the
S. end of Lake Scutari, 18 by 16 m., in North Albania.

SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS, two rocks opposite each other at a narrow pass of the strait between
Italy and Sicily, in the cave of one of which dwelt the former, a fierce monster that barked
like a dog, and under the cliff of the other of which dwelt the latter, a monster that sucked
up everything that came near it, so that any ship passing between in avoiding the one become
a prey to the other.

SCYTHIANS, the name of a people of various tribes that occupied the steppes of SE. of Europe
and W. of Asia adjoining eastward, were of nomadic habit; kept herds of cattle and horses,
and were mostly in a semi-savage state beyond the pale of civilisation; the region they occupied
is called Scythia.

SEABURY, SAMUEL, American prelate, born at Groton, Connecticut, graduated at Yale and studied
medicine in Edinburgh; entered the Church of England in 1753, and devoted himself at first
to missionary work; subsequently held "livings" in Long Island and New York State in 1782;
was appointed bishop by the clergy of Connecticut; sought consecration at the hands of the
English archbishops who were afraid to grant it, and had to resort to the bishops of the Scotch
Episcopal Church for the purpose; did notable work in establishing and consolidating Episcopacy
in America (1729-1796).

SEALED ORDERS, the orders given the commanding officer of a ship or squadron that are sealed
up, which he is not allowed to open till he has proceeded a certain length into the high seas;
an arrangement in order to ensure secrecy in a time of war.

SEA-SERPENT, a marine monster of serpent-like shape whose existence is still a matter of question,
although several seemingly authentic accounts have been circulated in attestation. The subject
has given rise to much disputation and conjecture on the part of naturalists, but opinion mostly
favours the supposition that these gigantic serpent-like appearances are caused by enormous
cuttlefish swimming on the surface of the water, with their 20 ft. long tentacles elongated
fore and aft. Other fishes which might also be mistaken for the sea-serpent are the barking-shark,
tape-fish, marine snake, &c.

SEBASTIAN. ST., a Roman soldier at Narbonne, and martyred under Diocletian when it was discovered
he was a Christian; is depicted in art bound naked to a tree and pierced with arrows, and sometimes
with arrows in his hand offering them to Heaven on his knees, he having been shot first with
arrows and then beaten to death.

SEBASTIANO DEL PIOMBO, Italian painter, born at Venice; was an excellent colourist, and collaborated
with Michael Angelo (1485-1547).

SEBASTOPOL (34), a fortified seaport of Russia, situated on a splendid natural harbour (4½
m. by ½), on the SW. of the Crimea; during the Crimean War was destroyed and captured by the
French and English after a siege lasting from October 9, 1854, to September 18, 1855; has,
since 1885, been restored, and is now an important naval station; exports large quantities
of grain.

SEBILLOT, PAUL, celebrated French folk-lorist; b. 1843.

SECKER, THOMAS, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Sibthorpe, Nottinghamshire; first studied
medicine and graduated at Leyden in 1721, but was induced to take orders, and after a year
at Oxford was ordained a priest in 1723; held various livings till his appointment to the Primacy
in 1758; noted as a wise and kindly ecclesiastic (1693-1768).

SECOND-SIGHT, name given to the power of seeing things future or distant; a power superstitiously
ascribed to certain people in the Highlands of Scotland.

SECULARIST, name given to one who, discarding as irrelevant all theories and observances bearing
upon the other world and its interests, holds that we ought to confine our attention solely
to the immediate problems and duties of this, independently of all presumed dependence on revelation
and communications from a higher sphere.

SEDAN (20), a town of France, in department of Ardennes, on the Maas, 164 m. NE. of Paris;
once a strong fortress, but dismantled in 1875, where in 1870 Napoleon III. and 86,000 men
under Marshal Macmahon surrendered to the Germans; noted for its cloth manufactories. Previous
to the Edict of Nantes was a celebrated centre of Huguenot industry and theological learning.

SEDGEMOOR, district in central Somersetshire, 5 m. SE. of Bridgwater, scene of a famous battle
between the troops of James II. and those of the Duke of Monmouth on July 6, 1685, in which
the latter were completely routed.

SEDGWICK, ADAM, geologist, born at Dent, Yorkshire; graduated at Cambridge in 1808, became
a Fellow in the same year, and in 1818 was elected to the Woodward chair of Geology; co-operated
with Murchison in the study of the geological formation of the Alps and the Devonian system
of England; strongly conservative in his scientific theories, he stoutly opposed the Darwinian
theory of the origin of species; his best work was contributed in papers to the Geological
Society of London, of which he was President 1829-1831; published "British Palæozoic Rocks
and Fossils" (1785-1873).

SEELEY, SIR JOHN ROBERT, author of "Ecce Homo," born in London; studied at Cambridge, became
professor of History there in 1869 on Kingsley's retirement; his "Ecce Homo" was published
in 1865, a piece of perfect literary workmanship, but which in its denial of the self-originated
spirit of Christ offended orthodox belief and excited much adverse criticism; wrote in 1882
a work entitled "Natural Religion," in which he showed the same want of sympathy with supernatural
ideas, as also several historical works (1834-1895).

SEGOVIA (14), a quaint old Spanish city, capital of a province (154) of the same name; crowns
a rocky height looking down on the river Eresma, 32 m. NW. of Madrid; its importance dates
from Roman times; has a great aqueduct, built in Trajan's reign, and a fine Moorish castle
and Gothic cathedral; cloth-weaving the only important industry.

SEGU (36), a town of West Africa, on the Joliba, 400 m. SW. of Timbuctoo; chiefly occupied
by trading Arabs; once the capital of a now decayed native State.

SEINE, an important river of France, rises in the tableland of Langres, takes a winding course
to the NW., passing many important towns, Troyes, Fontainebleau, Paris, St. Denis, Rouen, &c.,
and discharges into the English Channel by a broad estuary after a course of 482 m., of which
350 are navigable.

SEINE (3,142), the smallest but most populous department of France, entirely surrounded by
the department of Seine-et-Oise; Paris and its adjacent villages cover a considerable portion
of the area; presents a richly wooded, undulating surface, traversed by the Seine in a NW.
direction.

SEINE-ET-MARNE (356), a north-midland department of France lying E. of Seine; the Marne crosses
the N. and the Seine the S.; has a fertile soil, which grows in abundance cereals, vegetables,
and fruits; many fine woods, including Fontainebleau Forest, diversify its undulating surface.
Melun (capital) and Fontainebleau are among its important towns.

SEINE-ET-OISE (628), a department of NW. France, encloses the department of Seine; grain is
grown in well-cultivated plains and the vine on pleasant hill slopes; is intersected by several
tributaries of the Seine, and the N. is prettily wooded. Versailles is the capital; Sèvres
and St. Cloud are other interesting places.

SEINE-INFÉRIEURE (839), a maritime department of North-West France, in Normandy, facing the
English Channel; is for the most part a fertile plain, watered by the Seine and smaller streams,
and diversified by fine woods and the hills of Caux; is a fruit and cider producing district;
has flourishing manufactures. Rouen is the capital, and Havre and Dieppe are important trading
centres.

SELBORNE, ROUNDELL PALMER, EARL OF, Lord Chancellor, born in Oxfordshire; called to the bar
in 1837, and after a brilliant career at Oxford entered Parliament in 1847, and in 1861 became
Solicitor-General in Palmerston's ministry, receiving at the same time a knighthood; two years
later was advanced to the Attorney-Generalship; in 1872 was elected Lord Chancellor, a position
he retained till 1874, and again held from 1880 to 1885; refused to adopt Mr. Gladstone's Home
Rule policy for Ireland and joined the Liberal-Unionists, but declined to take office under
Lord Salisbury; was raised to an earldom in 1882, received various honorary degrees; greatly
interested himself in hymnology, and edited "The Book of Praise"; wrote also several works
on Church questions (1812-1895).

SELBY (6), a market-town of Yorkshire, on the Ouse, 15 m. S. of York; has a noted cruciform
abbey church, founded in the 12th century, and exhibiting various styles of architecture; has
some boat-building; manufactures flax, ropes, leather, bricks, &c.

SELDEN, JOHN, born at Salvington, Sussex; adopted law as a profession, and was trained at Clifford's
Inn and the Inner Temple, London; successful as a lawyer, he yet found time for scholarly pursuits,
and acquired a great reputation by the publication of various erudite works bearing on old
English jurisprudence and antiquities generally; a "History of Tithes" (1618), in which he
combats the idea that "tithes" are divinely instituted, got him into trouble with the Church;
was imprisoned in 1621 for encouraging Parliament to repudiate James's absolutist claims; from
his entrance into Parliament in 1623 continued to play an important part throughout the troublous
reign of Charles; sincerely attached to the Parliamentary side, he was one of the framers of
the Petition of Right, and suffered imprisonment with Holies and the others; sat in the Long
Parliament, but, all through out of sympathy with the extremists, disapproved of the execution
of Charles; held various offices, e. g. Keeper of the Rolls and Records in the Tower; continued
to write learned and voluminous works on biblical and historical subjects, but is best remembered
for his charming 'Table-talk, a book of which Coleridge remarked, "There is more weighty bullion
sense in this book than I can find in the same number of pages of any uninspired writer" (1584-1654).

SELENE, in the Greek mythology the moon-goddess, the sister of Helios, and designated Phoebe
as he was Phoebus; she became by Endymion the mother of 50 daughters.

SELF-DENYING ORDINANCE, a resolution of the Long Parliament passed in 1644, whereby the members
bound themselves not to accept certain executive offices, particularly commands in the army.

SELIM I., a warlike sultan of Turkey, who, having dethroned and put to death his father, Bajazet
II., entered upon a victorious career of military aggrandisement, overcoming the Persians in
1515, conquering and annexing Egypt, Syria, and the Hejaz in 1517, finally winning for himself
the position of Imâm or head of the Mohammedan world; greatly strengthened his country, and
strove according to his lights to deal justly with and ameliorate the condition of the peoples
whom he conquered (1467-1520).

SELJUKS, a Turkish people who in the 10th century, headed by a chief named Seljuk (whence their
name), broke away from their allegiance to the khan of Kirghiz, adopted the Mohammedan faith,
and subsequently conquered Bokhara, but were driven across the Oxus and settled HI Khorassan;
under Toghril Beg, grandson of Seljuk, they in the 11th century won for themselves a wide empire
in Asia, including the provinces of Syria and Asia Minor, whose rulers, by their cruel persecution
of Christian pilgrims, led to the Crusade movement in Europe. The Seljuks were in part gradually
absorbed by the advancing Mongol tribes, while numbers fled westward, where they were at length
incorporated in the Ottoman Empire in the 14th century.

SELKIRK (6), county town of Selkirkshire, on the Ettrick, 40 m. SE. of Edinburgh; famed at
one time for its "Souters"; is a centre of the manufacture of tweeds.

SELKIRKSHIRE (27), a south inland county of Scotland; extends S. from the corner of Midlothian
to Dumfriesshire, between Peebles (W.) and Roxburgh (E.); the grassy slopes of its hills afford
splendid pasturage, and sheep-farming is a flourishing industry; manufactures are mainly confined
to Galashiels and Selkirk; is traversed by the Ettrick and the Yarrow, whose romantic valleys
are associated with much of the finest ballad literature of Scotland.

SELWYN, GEORGE, a noted wit in the social and literary life of London in Horace Walpole's time,
born, of good parentage, in Gloucestershire; was expelled from Oxford in 1743 for blasphemy;
four years later entered Parliament, and supported the Court party, and received various government
favours; his vivacious wit won him ready entrance into the best London and Parisian society;
is the chief figure in Jesse's entertaining "George Selwyn and his Contemporaries" (1719-1791).

SELWYN, GEORGE AUGUSTUS, the first bishop of New Zealand, in which capacity he wrought so zealously,
that his diocese, by his extension of Episcopacy, was subdivided into seven; on his return
to England he was made bishop of Lichfield (1809-1878).

SEMAPHORE, a name applied to the mechanism employed for telegraphing purposes prior to the
discovery of the electric telegraph; invented in 1767 by Richard Edgeworth, but first extensively
used by the French in 1794, and afterwards adopted by the Admiralty in England; consisted at
first of six shutters set in two rotating circular frames, which, by opening and shutting in
various ways, were capable of conveying sixty-three distinct signals; these were raised on
the tops of wooden towers erected on hills; later a different form was adopted consisting of
a mast and two arms worked by winches. The speed at which messages could be transmitted was
very great; thus a message could be sent from London to Portsmouth and an answer be received
all within 45 seconds. The railway signal now in use is a form of semaphore.

SEMELE, in the Greek mythology the daughter of Cadmus and the mother of Dionysus by Zeus, was
tempted by Hera to pray Zeus to show himself to her in his glory, who, as pledged to give her
all she asked, appeared before her as the god of thunder, and consumed her by the lightning.
See DIONYSUS.

SEMINOLES, a nomadic tribe of American Indians who from 1832 to 1839 offered a desperate resistance
to the Americans before yielding up their territory SE. of the Mississippi (Florida, etc.);
finally settled in the Indian Territory, where they now number some 3000, and receive an annuity
from the American Government; missionary enterprise among them has been successful in establishing
schools and churches.

SEMIPALATINSK (586), a mountainous province of Asiatic Russia, stretching between Lake Balkash
(S.) and Tomsk; encloses stretches of steppe-land on which cattle and horses are reared; some
mining of silver, lead, and copper is also done. Semipalatinsk, the capital (18), stands on
the Irtish; has two annual fairs, and is an important trading mart.

SEMI-PELAGIANISM. See PELAGIUS.

SEMIRAMIS, legendary queen of Assyria, to whom tradition ascribes the founding of Babylon with
its hanging gardens, and is said to have surpassed in valour and glory her husband Ninus, the
founder of Nineveh; she seems to have in reality been the Venus or Astarte of the Assyrian
mythology. The story goes that when a child she was deserted by her mother and fed by doves.

SEMIRAMIS OF THE NORTH, a name given to Margaret, Queen of Denmark; also to Catharine II. of
Russia.

SEMIRETCHINSK (758), a mountainous province of Asiatic Russia, stretches S. of Lake Balkash
to East Turkestan and Ferghana on the S.; is traversed E. and W. by the lofty ranges of the
Alatau and Tian-Shan Mountains; the vast bulk of the inhabitants are Kirghiz, and engaged in
raising horses, camels, and sheep.

SEMITIC RACES, races reputed descendants of Shem, including the Jews, the Assyrians, the Chaldeans,
the Syrians, the Phoenicians, and the Arabs, and are "all marked," as the editor has observed
elsewhere, "by common features; such appear in their language, their literature, their modes
of thinking, social organisation, and religious belief. Their language is poor in inflection,
has few or no compound verbs or substantives, has next to no power of expressing abstract ideas,
and is of simple primitive structure or syntax. Their literature has neither the breadth nor
the flow of that of Greece or Rome, but it is instinct with a passion which often holds of
the very depths of being, and appeals to the ends of the earth. In their modes of thinking
they are taken up with concrete realities instead of abstractions, and hence they have contributed
nothing to science or philosophy, much as they have to faith. Their social order is patriarchal,
with a leaning to a despotism, which in certain of them, such as the Jews and Arabs, goes higher
and higher till it reaches God; called, therefore, by Jude 'the Only Despot.'"

SEMMERING, a mountain of Styria, Austria, 60 m. SW. of Vienna, 4577 ft. above sea-level; is
crossed by the Vienna and Trieste railway, which passes through 15 tunnels and over 16 viaducts.

SEMPACH (1), a small Swiss town, 9 m. NW. of Lucerne, on the Lake of Sempach; here on the 9th
of July 1386 a body of 1500 Swiss soldiers completely routed the Austrians, 4000 strong, under
Leopold, Duke of Austria.

SEN, CHUNDER. See CHUNDER SEN.

SÉNANCOUR, ÉTIENNE PIVERT DE, French writer, born at Paris; delicate in his youth; was driven
by an unsympathetic father to quit his home at 19, and for some time lived at Geneva and Fribourg,
where a brief period of happy married life was closed by the death of his young wife; returned
to Paris in 1798; supported himself by writing, and latterly by a small Government pension
granted by Louis Philippe; is best known as the author of "Obermann," a work of which Matthew
Arnold wrote, "The stir of all the main forces by which modern life is and has been impelled,
lives in the letters of Obermann.... To me, indeed, it will always seem that the impressiveness
of this production can hardly be rated too high" (1770-1846).

SENATE (i. e. "an assembly of elders"), a name first bestowed by the Romans on their supreme
legislative and administrative assembly; its formation is traditionally ascribed to Romulus;
its powers, at their greatest during the Republic, gradually diminished under the Emperors;
in modern times is used to designate the "Upper House" in the legislature of various countries,
e. g. France and the United States of America; is also the title of the governing body in many
universities.

SENECA, ANNÆUS, rhetorician, born at Cordova; taught rhetoric at Rome, whither he went at the
time of Augustus, and where he died A.D. 32.

SENECA, L. ANNÆUS, philosopher, son of the preceding, born at Cordova, and brought to Rome
when a child; practised as a pleader at the bar, studied philosophy, and became the tutor of
Nero; acquired great riches; was charged with conspiracy by Nero as a pretext, it is believed,
to procure his wealth, and ordered to kill himself, which he did by opening his veins till
he bled to death, a slow process and an agonising, owing to his age; he was of the Stoic school
in philosophy, and wrote a number of treatises bearing chiefly on morals; d. A.D. 65.

SENEGAL, an important river of West Africa, formed by the junction, at Bafulabé, of two head-streams
rising in the highlands of Western Soudan; flows NW., W., and SW., a course of 706 m., and
discharges into the Atlantic 10 m. below St. Louis; navigation is somewhat impeded by a sand-bar
at its mouth, and by cataracts and rapids in the upper reaches.

SENEGAL (136), a French colony of West Africa, lying along the banks of the Senegal River.
See SENEGAMBIA.

SENEGAMBIA, a tract of territory lying chiefly within the basins of the rivers Senegal and
Gambia, West Africa, stretching from the Atlantic, between Cape Blanco and the mouth of the
Gambia, inland to the Niger; embraces the French colony of Senegal, and various ill-defined
native States under the suzerainty of France; the interior part is also called the French Soudan;
the vast expanse of the contiguous Sahara in the N., and stretches of territory on the S.,
extending to the Gulf of Guinea, are also within the French sphere of influence, altogether
forming an immense territory (1,000), of which ST. LOUIS (q. v.) in Senegambia proper, is considered
the capital; ground-nuts, gums, india-rubber, &c., are the chief exports.

SENESCHAL, an important functionary at the courts of Frankish princes, whose duty it was to
superintend household feasts and ceremonies, functions equivalent to those of the English High
Steward.

SENNAAR (8), capital of a district of the Eastern Soudan, which lies between the Blue and the
White Nile, situated on the Blue Nile, 160 m. SE. of Khartoum.

SENNACHERIB, a king of Assyria, whose reign extended from 702 to 681 B.C., and was distinguished
by the projection and execution of extensive public works; he endeavoured to extend his conquests
westward, but was baffled in Judea by the miraculous destruction of his army. See 2 Kings xix. 35.

SENS (14), an old cathedral town of France, on the Yonne, 70 m. SE. of Paris; the cathedral
is a fine Gothic structure of the 12th century; has also an archbishop's palace, and is still
surrounded by massive stone walls; does a good trade in corn, wine, and wool.

SENUSSI, a Mohammedan brotherhood in the Soudan, founded by Mohammed-es-Senussi from Mostaganem,
in Algeria, who flourished between 1830 and 1860. The brotherhood, remarkable for its austere
and fanatical zeal, has ramified into many parts of N Africa, and exercises considerable influence,
fostering resistance to the encroachments of the invading European powers.

SEPOY, the name given to a native of India employed as a soldier in the British service in India.

SEPTEMBER, the ninth month of the year, so called as having been the seventh in the Roman calendar.

SEPTEMBER MASSACRES. An indiscriminate slaughter in Paris which commenced on Sunday afternoon,
September 2, 1792, "a black day in the annals of men," when 30 priests on their way to prison
were torn from the carriages that conveyed them, and massacred one after the other, all save
Abbé Secard, in the streets by an infuriated mob; and continued thereafter through horror after
horror for a hundred hours long, all done in the name of justice and in mock form of law--a
true Reign of Terror.

SEPTUAGINT, a version, and the oldest of any known to us, of the Hebrew Scriptures in Greek,
executed at Alexandria, in Egypt, by different translators at different periods, commencing
with 280 B.C.; it is known as the Alexandria version, while the name Septuagint, or LXX., was
given to it on the ground of the tradition that it was the work of 70, or rather 72, Jews,
who had, it is alleged, been Drought from Palestine for the purpose, and were fabled, according
to one tradition, to have executed the whole in as many days, and, according to another, to
have each done the whole apart from the rest, with the result that the version of each was
found to correspond word for word with that of all the others; it began with the translation
of the Pentateuch and was continued from that time till 130 B.C. by the translation of the
rest, the whole being in reality the achievement of several independent workmen, who executed
their parts, some with greater some with less ability and success; it is often literal to a
painful degree, and it swarms with such pronounced Hebraisms, that a pure Greek would often
fail to understand it. It was the version current everywhere at the time of the planting of
the Christian Church, and the numerous quotations in the New Testament from the Old are, with
few exceptions, quotations from it.

SEPULVEDA, JUAN GINES, Spanish historian, born at Pozo-Blanco, near Cordova; in 1536 became
historiographer to Charles V. and tutor to the future Philip II.; was subsequently canon of
Salamanca; author of several historical works, of which a "History of Charles V." is the most
important, a work characterised by broad humanistic proclivities unusual in his day and country;
d. 1574.

SERAGLIO, in its restricted sense applied in the East to a harem or women's quarters in a royal
household; the former residence of the sultan of Turkey, occupies a beautiful site on the E.
side of Constantinople, on a projecting piece of land between the Golden Horn and the Sea of
Marmora, enclosing within its 3 m. of wall government buildings, mosques, gardens, &c., chief
of which is the harem, which occupies an inner enclosure.

SERAING (34), a manufacturing town of Belgium, on the Meuse, 4 m. SW. of Liège; noted for its
extensive machine-shops (locomotives, &c.); established in 1817 by John Cockerill, and now,
with forges, coal-mines, &c., giving employment to some 12,000 men.

SERAMPUR (36), a town of modern aspect in India, on the Hooghly, 13 m. N. of Calcutta; originally
Danish, was purchased by the British in 1845; manufactures paper and mats, and is associated
with the successful missionary enterprise of the Baptists Carey, Marshman, and Ward.

SERAPHIC DOCTOR, appellation applied to ST. BONAVENTURA (q. v.); also by Carlyle to the doctors
of the modern school of Enlightenment, or march-of-intellect school. See AUFKLÄRUNG.

SERAPHIM, angels of the highest order and of etheriel temper, represented as guarding with
veiled faces the Divine glory, and considered to have originally denoted the lightning darting
out from the black thunder-cloud.

SERAPIS, an Egyptian divinity of partly Greek derivation and partly Egyptian, and identified
with Apis.

SERASKIER, a Turkish general, in especial the commander-in-chief or minister of war.

SERBONIAN BOG, a quagmire in Egypt in which armies were fabled to be swallowed up and lost;
applied to any situation in which one is entangled from which extrication is difficult.

SERFS, under the feudal system a class of labourers whose position differed only from that
of slaves in being attached to the soil and so protected from being sold from hand to hand
like a chattel, although they could be transferred along with the land; liberty could be won
by purchase, military service, or by residing a year and a day in a borough; these and economic
changes brought about their gradual emancipation in the 15th and 16th centuries; mining serfs,
however, existed in Scotland as recently as the 18th century, and in Russia their emancipation
only took place in 1861.

SERINGAPATAM (10), a decayed city of S. India, formerly capital of Mysore State, situated on
an island in the Kaveri, 10 m. NE. of Mysore city; in the later 18th century was the stronghold
of Tippoo Sahib, who was successfully besieged and slain by the British in 1799; has interesting
ruins.

SERJEANT-AT-ARMS, an officer attendant on the Speaker of the House of Commons, whose duty it
is to preserve order and arrest any offender against the rules of the House.

SERPENT, THE, is used symbolically to represent veneration from the shedding of its skin, and
sometimes eternity, and not unfrequently a guardian spirit; also prudence and cunning, especially
as embodied in Satan; is an attribute of several saints as expressive of their power over the
evil one.

SERPUKOFF (21), an ancient and still prosperous town of Russia, on the Nara, 57 m. S. of Moscow;
has a cathedral, and manufactures of cottons, woollens, &c.

SERRANO Y DOMINGUEZ, Duke de la Torre, Spanish statesman and marshal; won distinction in the
wars against the Carlists, and turning politician, became in 1845 a senator and favourite of
Queen Isabella; was prominent during the political unrest and changes of her reign; joined
Prim in the revolution of 1868, defeated the queen's troops; became president of the Ministry;
commander-in-chief of the army, and in 1869 Regent of Spain, a position he held till Amadeus's
succession in 1871; won victories against the Carlists in 1872 and 1874; was again at the head
of the executive during the last months of the republic, but retired on the accession of Alfonso
XII.; continued in active politics till his death (1810-1885).

SERTORIUS, Roman statesman and general; joined the democratic party under MARIUS (q. v.) against
Sulla; retired to Spain on the return of Sulla to Rome, where he sought to introduce Roman
civilisation; was assassinated 73 B.C.

SERVETUS, MICHAEL, physician, born at Tudela, in Navarre; had a leaning to theology, and passing
into Germany associated with the Reformers; adopted Socinianism, and came under ban of the
orthodox, and was burnt alive at Geneva, after a trial of two months, under sanction, it is
said, of Calvin (1511-1553).

SERVIA (2,227), a kingdom of Europe occupying a central position in the Balkan Peninsula between
Austria (N.) and Turkey (S. and W.), with Roumania and Bulgaria on the E.; one-third the size
of England and Wales; its surface is mountainous and in many parts thickly forested, but wide
fertile valleys produce in great abundance wheat, maize, and other cereals, grapes and plums
(an important export when dried), while immense herds of swine are reared on the outskirts
of the oak-forests; is well watered by the Morava flowing through the centre and by the Save
and Danube on the N.; climate varies considerably according to elevation; not much manufacturing
is done, but minerals abound and are partially wrought; the Servians are of Slavonic stock,
high-spirited and patriotic, clinging tenaciously to old-fashioned methods and ideas; have
produced a notable national literature, rich in lyric poetry; a good system of national education
exists; belong to the Greek Church; the monarchy is limited and hereditary; government is vested
in the King, Senate, and National Assembly; originally emigrants in the 7th century from districts
round the Carpathians, the Servians had by the 14th century established a kingdom considerably
larger than their present domain; were conquered by the Turks in 1389, and held in subjection
till 1815, when a national rising won them Home Rule, but remained tributary to Turkey until
1877, when they proclaimed their independence, which was confirmed by the Treaty of Berlin in 1878.

SERVIUS TULLIUS, the sixth king of Rome from 578 to 534 B.C., divided the Roman territory into
30 tribes, and the people into 5 classes, which were further divided into centuries.

SESOSTRIS, a legendary monarch of Egypt, alleged to have achieved universal empire at a very
remote antiquity, and to have executed a variety of public works by means of the captives he
brought home from his conquests.

SESTERTIUS, a Roman coin either bronze or silver one-fourth of a denarius, originally worth
2½ asses but afterwards 4 asses, up to the time of Augustus was worth fully 2d., and subsequently
one-eighth less; Sestertium, a Roman "money of account," never a coin, equalled 1000 sestertii,
and was valued at £8, 15s.

SETTLE, ELKANAH, a playwright who lives in the pages of Dryden's satire "Absalom and Achitophel";
was an Oxford man and littérateur in London; enjoyed a brief season of popularity as author
of "Cambyses," and "The Empress of Morocco"; degenerated into a "city poet and a puppet-show
keeper," and died in the Charterhouse; was the object of Dryden's and Pope's scathing sarcasms
(1648-1723).

SETUBAL (English, St. Ubes) (15), a fortified seaport of Portugal, at the mouth of the Sado,
on a bay of the same name, 17 m. SE. of Lisbon; has a good trade in wine, salt, and oranges;
in the neighbourhood is a remarkable stalactite cave.

SEVEN DEADLY SINS, Pride, Wrath, Envy, Lust, Gluttony, Avarice, and Sloth.

SEVEN DOLOURS OF THE VIRGIN, the prediction of Simeon (Luke ii. 35); the flight into Egypt;
the loss of the child in Jerusalem; the sight of her Son bearing the cross; the sight of Him
upon the cross; the descent from the cross; and the entombment--the festival in connection
with which is celebrated on the Friday before Palm Sunday.

SEVEN SAGES OF GREECE, Solon of Athens, his motto "Know thyself"; Chilo of Sparta, his motto
"Consider the end"; Thales of Miletus, his motto "Whoso hateth suretyship is sure"; Bias of
Priene, his motto "Most men are bad"; Cleobulus of Lindos, his motto "Avoid extremes"; Pittacus
of Mitylene, his motto "Seize Time by the forelock"; Periander of Corinth, his motto "Nothing
is impossible to industry."

SEVEN SLEEPERS, seven noble youths of Ephesus who, to escape the persecution of Decius, fled
into a cave, where they fell asleep and woke up at the end of two centuries.

SEVEN WISE MASTERS, the title of a famous cycle of mediæval tales which centre round the story
of a young prince who, after baffling all efforts of former tutors, is at last, at the age
of 20, instructed in all knowledge by Sindibad, one of the king's wise men, but having cast
his horoscope Sindibad perceives the prince will die unless, after presentation at the court,
he keeps silence for seven days; one of the king's wives, having in vain attempted to seduce
the young man, in baffled rage accuses him to the king with tempting her virtue, and procures
his death-sentence; the seven sages delay the execution by beguiling the king with stories
till the seven days are passed, when the prince speaks and reveals the plot; an extraordinary
number of variants exist in Eastern and Western languages, the earliest written version being
an Arabian text of the 10th century: a great mass of literature has grown round the subject,
which is one of the most perplexing as well as interesting problems of storiology.

SEVEN WONDERS OF THE WORLD, the pyramids of Egypt, the hanging gardens of Babylon, the tomb
of Mausolus, the temple of Diana at Ephesus, the Colossus of Rhodes, the statue of Jupiter
by Phidias at Olympia, and the Pharos at Alexandria.

SEVEN YEARS' WAR, the name given to the third and most terrible struggle between Frederick
the Great of Prussia and Maria Theresa, empress of Austria, for, the possession of Silesia,
which embroiled almost all Europe in war, and which had far-reaching effects on the destinies
of England and France as well as Prussia; began in 1756 by Frederick's successful advance on
Dresden, anticipating Maria Theresa's intention of attempting the recovery of Silesia, lost
to her in the previous two wars. With Austria were allied France, Sweden, Poland, and Russia,
while Prussia was supported till 1761 by England. In 1762 Peter III. of Russia changed sides,
and Frederick, sometimes victorious, often defeated, finally emerged successful in 1763, when
the war was brought to a close by the Peace of Hubertsburg. Besides demonstrating the strength
and genius of Frederick and raising immensely the prestige of Prussia, it enabled England to
make complete her predominance in North America and to establish herself securely in India,
while at the same time it gave the death-blow to French hopes of a colonial empire.

SEVERN, the second river of England, rises on the E. side of Plinlimmon, in Montgomeryshire,
and flows in a circuitous southerly direction through Montgomeryshire, Shropshire, Worcestershire,
and Gloucestershire, falling into the Bristol Channel after a course of 210 m.; is navigable
to Welshpool (180 m.); chief tributaries are the Terne, Wye, and the Stratford Avon; there
is a "bore" perceptible 180 m. from the mouth.

SEVERUS, L. SEPTIMIUS, Roman emperor, born in Leptis Magna, in Africa; was in command at Pannonia,
and elected emperor on the murder of Pertinax, and after conquering his rivals achieved victories
in the East, especially against the Parthians, and thereafter subdued a rebellion in Britain,
and secured South Britain against invasions from the north by a wall; died at York (146-211).

SÉVIGNÉ, MADAME DE, maiden name Marie de Rabutin-Chantal, the most charming of letter-writers,
born at Paris; married at 18 the dissolute Marquis de Sévigné, who left her a widow at 25;
her beauty and rare charms attracted many suitors, to one and all of whom, however, she turned
a deaf ear, devoting herself with touching fidelity to her son and daughter, and finding all
her happiness in their affection and in the social intercourse of a wide circle of friends;
her fame rests on her letters, written chiefly to her daughter in Provence, which reflect the
brightest and purest side of Parisian life, and contain the tender outpourings of her mother's
heart in language of unstudied grace (1626-1696).

SEVILLE (144), a celebrated Spanish city and river port on the Guadalquivir, 62 m. NE. of Cadiz;
an iron bridge connects it with Triana, a large suburb on the other side of the river; many
of the old picturesque Moorish buildings have given place to modern and more commodious structures
and broader streets; the great Gothic cathedral (15th century), containing paintings by Murillo,
&c., is among the finest in Europe; the Moorish royal palace, the great Roman aqueduct (in
use until 1883), the museum, with masterpieces of Murillo, Velasquez, &c., the university,
archbishop's palace, Giralda Campanile, and the vast bull-ring, are noteworthy; chief manufactures
embrace cigars, machinery, pottery, textiles, &c.; while lead, quicksilver, wines, olive-oil,
and fruits are exported; is capital of a province (545).

SÈVRES (7), a French town on the Seine, 10½ m. SW. of Paris, celebrated for its fine porcelain
ware (especially vases), the manufacture of which was established in 1755; has a school of
mosaic work and museums for pottery ware of all ages and countries.

SÈVRES, DEUX- (354), a department of West France; is watered by two rivers, and in the N. thickly
wooded; a varied agriculture, cattle and mule breeding, and cloth manufacture are the principal
industries. Niort is the capital.

SEWARD, ANNA, poetess, born at Eyam, Derbyshire, but from the age of seven spent her life at
Lichfield, where her father was residentiary canon; was a friend and indefatigable correspondent
of Mrs. Piozzi, Dr. Darwin, Southey, Scott, and others; author of "Louisa," a novel in poetry,
"Sonnets" and other poems, which had in their day considerable popularity; her correspondence
is collected in 6 vols. (1747-1809).

SEWARD, WILLIAM HENRY, American statesman, born at Florida, New York State; was called to the
bar at Utica in 1822, and soon took rank as one of the finest forensic orators of his country;
engaged actively in the politics of his State, of which he was governor in 1838 and 1840; entered
the U.S. senate in 1849 as an abolitionist, becoming soon the recognised leader of the Anti-Slavery
party; was put forward by the Republican party as a candidate for presidential nomination,
but failing in this he zealously supported Lincoln, under whom he served as Secretary of State,
conducting with notable success the foreign affairs of the country during the Civil War and
up to the accession of President Grant in 1869; spent his closing years in travel and retirement
(1801-1872).

SEXTANT, an instrument used in navigation (sometimes also in land-surveying) for measuring
the altitudes of celestial bodies and their angular distances; consists of a graduated brass
sector, the sixth part of a circle, and an arrangement of two small mirrors and telescope;
invented in 1730 by John Hadley.

SEYCHELLES (16), a group of some 30 islands, largest Mahé (59 sq. m.), situated in the Indian
Ocean, 600 m. NE. of Madagascar; taken from the French by Britain in 1798, and now under the
governor of Mauritius; are mountainous and mostly surrounded by coral reefs; export fibres,
nuts, palm-oil, &c.; Victoria, in Mahé, is the chief town, and an imperial coaling station.

SFORZA (i. e. stormer), Italian family celebrated during the 15th and 16th centuries, founded
by a military adventurer, a peasant of the name of Muzia Allendolo, and who received the name;
they became dukes of Milan, and began by hiring their services in war, in which they were always
victorious, to the highest bidder, the first of the number to attain that rank being Francesco
Sforza, the son of the founder, in 1450 (1401-1466), the last of the series being François-Marie
(1492-1535).

SGRAFFITO, a decorative wall painting, produced by layers of plaster applied to a moistened
surface and afterwards operated on so as to produce a picture.

SHADWELL, THOMAS, dramatist, who lives as the "MacFlecknoe" of Dryden's "Absalom and Achitophel,"
born, of a good family, in Norfolk; studied law and adopted literature, in which he made a
successful start with the comedy "The Sullen Lovers" (1668); his numerous plays, chiefly comedies,
are of little poetic value, but serve as useful commentaries on the Restoration period; quarrelled
with and satirised Dryden in the "Medal of John Bayes," which drew forth the crushing retort
in Dryden's famous satire; succeeded Dryden as poet-laureate in 1688 (1640-1692).

SHAFITES, a sect of the Sunnites or orthodox Mohammedans, so called from Shafei, a descendant
of Mohammed.

SHAFTESBURY, ANTHONY ASHLEY COOPER, EARL OF, a notable politician, prominent in the times of
Cromwell and Charles II., born, of good parentage, in Dorsetshire; passed through Oxford and
entered Lincoln's Inn; sat in the Short Parliament of 1640; changed from the Royalist to the
Parliamentary side during the Civil War, and was a member of Cromwell's Council of State, but
latterly attacked the Protector's Government, and was one of the chief promoters of the Restoration;
Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1661, and later a member of the "Cabal"; he in 1672 was created
an earl and Lord Chancellor, but, hoodwinked by Charles in the secret Treaty of Dover, went
over to the Opposition, lost his chancellorship, supported an Anti-Catholic policy, leagued
himself with the Country Party, and intrigued with the Prince of Orange; came into power again,
after the "Popish Plot," as the champion of toleration and Protestantism, became President
of the Council, and passed the Habeas Corpus Act; his virulent attacks on James and espousal
of Monmouth's cause brought about his arrest on a charge of high treason (1681), and although
acquitted he deemed it expedient to flee to Holland, where he died; one of the ablest men of
his age, but of somewhat inscrutable character, whose shifting policy seems to have been chiefly
dominated by a regard for self; is the "Achitophel" of Dryden's great satire (1621-1683).

SHAFTESBURY, ANTHONY ASHLEY COOPER, EARL OF, grandson of the preceding, philosopher, born in
London; was an ardent student in his youth, made the grand tour, and entered Parliament in
1694, moving to the Upper House on the death of his father in 1699, where, as a staunch Whig,
he gave steady support to William III.; withdrew from politics, never a congenial sphere to
him, on the accession of Anne, and followed his bent for literature and philosophy; in 1711
his collected writings appeared under the title "Characteristics," in which he expounds, in
the polite style of the 18th century, with much ingenuity and at times force, a somewhat uncritical
optimism, enunciating, among other things, the doubtful maxim that ridicule is the test of
truth (1671-1713).

SHAFTESBURY, ANTHONY ASHLEY COOPER, SEVENTH EARL OF, statesman and philanthropist, born in
London; was a distinguished graduate of Oxford, and entered Parliament as a Conservative in
1826, took office under Wellington in 1828, and was a lord of the Admiralty in Peel's ministry
of 1834; succeeded to the earldom in 1851; but his name lives by virtue of his noble and lifelong
philanthropy, which took shape in numerous Acts of Parliament, such as the Mines and Collieries
Act (1842), excluding women and boys under 13 working in mines; the Better Treatment of Lunatics
Act (1845), called the Magna Charta of the insane; the Factory Acts (1867); and the Workshop
Regulation Act (1878); while outside Parliament he wrought with rare devotion in behalf of
countless benevolent and religious schemes of all sorts, notably the Ragged School movement
and the better housing of the London poor; received the freedom of Edinburgh and London; was
the friend and adviser of the Prince Consort and the Queen (1801-1885).

SHAH (Pers. "King"), an abbreviation of Shah-in-Shah ("King of Kings"), the title by which
the monarchs of Persia are known; may also be used in Afghanistan and other Asiatic countries,
but more generally the less assuming title of Khan is taken.

SHAH-JEHAN ("King of the World"), fifth of the Mogul emperors of Delhi; succeeded his father
in 1627; a man of great administrative ability and a skilled warrior; conquered the Deccan
and the kingdom of Golconda, and generally raised the Mogul Empire to its zenith; his court
was truly Eastern in its sumptuous magnificence; the "Peacock Throne" alone cost £7,000,000;
died in prison, a victim to the perfidy of his usurping son Aurungzebe; d. 1666.

SHAKERS, a fanatical sect founded by one Ann Lee, so called from their extravagant gestures
in worship; they are agamists and communists.

SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM, great world-poet and dramatist, born in Stratford-on-Avon, in Warwickshire;
his father, John Shakespeare, a respected burgess; his mother, Mary Arden, the daughter of
a well-to-do farmer, through whom the family acquired some property; was at school at Stratford,
married Anne Hathaway, a yeoman's daughter, at 18, she eight years older, and had by her three
daughters; left for London somewhere between 1585 and 1587, in consequence, it is said, of
some deer-stealing frolic; took charge of horses at the theatre door, and by-and-by became
an actor. His first work, "Venus and Adonis," appeared in 1593, and "Lucrece" the year after;
became connected with different theatres, and a shareholder in certain of them, in some of
which he took part as actor, with the result, in a pecuniary point of view, that he bought
a house in his native place, extended it afterwards, where he chiefly resided for the ten years
preceding his death. Not much more than this is known of the poet's external history, and what
there is contributes nothing towards accounting for either him or the genius revealed in his
dramas. Of his works nothing can or need be said here; enough to add, as Carlyle further says,
"His works are so many windows through which we see a glimpse of the world that was in him....
Alas! Shakespeare's plays, with the order of their publication, are as follows: "Love's Labour's
Lost," 1590; "Comedy of Errors," 1591; 1, 2, 3 "Henry VI.," 1590-1592; "Two Gentlemen of Verona,"
1592-1593; "Midsummer-Night's Dream," 1593-1594; "Richard III.," 1593; "Romeo and Juliet,"
1591-1596 (?); "Richard II.," 1594; "King John," 1595; "Merchant of Venice," 1596; 1 and 2
"Henry IV.," 1597-1598; "Henry V.," 1599; "Taming of the Shrew," 1597 (?); "Merry Wives of
Windsor," 1598; "Much Ado about Nothing," 1598; "As You Like It," 1599; "Twelfth Night," 1600-1601;
"Julius Cæsar," 1601; "All's Well," 1601-1602 (?); "Hamlet," 1602, "Measure for Measure," 1603;
"Troilus and Cressida," 1603-1607 (?); "Othello," 1604; "Lear," 1605; "Macbeth," 1606; "Antony
and Cleopatra," 1607; "Coriolanus," 1608; "Timon," 1608; "Pericles," 1608; "Cymbeline," 1609;
"Tempest," 1610; "Winter's Tale," 1610-1611; "Henry VIII.," 1612-1613 (1564-1616).

SHAKESPEARE OF DIVINES, an epithet sometimes applied to JEREMY TAYLOR (q. v.) on account of
his poetic style.

SHALOTT, LADY OF, subject of a poem of Tennyson's in love with Lancelot; wove a web which she
must not rise from, otherwise a curse would fall on her; saw Lancelot pass one day, entered
a boat and glided down to Camelot, but died on the way.

SHAMANISM, the religion of the native savage races of North Siberia, being a belief in spirits,
both good and evil, who can be persuaded to bless or curse by the incantations of a Priest
called a Shaman.

SHAMMAI, an eminent Jewish rabbi of the time of Herod, who held the position of supreme judge
in the Sanhedrim under the presidency of HILLEL (q. v.), and whose narrow, rigid orthodoxy
and repressive policy became the leading principles of his school, "the House of Shammai,"
which, however, carried the system to a pitch of fanatical zeal not contemplated by its originator.

SHAMROCK, a small trefoil plant, the national emblem of Ireland; it is matter of dispute whether
it is the wood-sorrel, a species of clover, or some other allied trefoil; the lesser yellow
trefoil is perhaps the most commonly accepted symbol.

SHAMYL, a great Caucasian chief, head of the Lesghians, who combined the functions of priest
and warrior; consolidated the Caucasian tribes in their resistance to the Russians, and carried
on a successful struggle in his mountain fastnesses for thirty years, till his forces were
worn out and himself made captive in 1859; d. 1871.

SHANGHAI (380), the chief commercial city and port of China, on the Wusung, an affluent of
the Yangtse-kiang, 12 m. from the coast, and 160 m. SE. of Nanking; large, densely-peopled
suburbs have grown round the closely-packed and walled city, which, with its narrow, unclean
streets, presents a slovenly appearance; the French and English occupy the broad-streeted and
well-built suburbs in the N.; the low-lying site exposes the city to great heat in the summer,
and to frequent epidemics of cholera and fever; an extensive system of canals draws down a
great part of the interior produce, and swells the export trade in tea, silk, cotton, rice,
sugar, &c.

SHANNON, the first river of Ireland, and largest in the British Islands, rises in the Cuilcagh
Mountains, Co. Cavan; flows in a south-westerly direction through Loughs Allen, Ree, and Derg,
besides forming several lough expansions, to Limerick, whence it turns due W., and opens out
on the Atlantic in a wide estuary between Kerry (S.) and Clare (N.); has an entire course of
254 m., and is navigable to Lough Allen, a distance of 213 m.

SHANS or LAOS, the name of a people, descendants of aborigines of China, forming several large
tribes scattered round the frontiers of Burma, Siam, and South China, whose territory, roughly
speaking, extends N. as far as the Yunnan Plateau of South China; some are independent, but
the bulk of the tribes are subject to Siam, China, and the British in Burma; practise slavery,
are Buddhists, somewhat superstitious, indolent, pleasure-loving, and for the most part peaceable
and content; chased gold and silver work, rice, cotton, tobacco, &c., are their chief exports.

SHARON, a fertile region in Palestine of the maritime plain between Carmel and Philistia.

SHARP, ABRAHAM, a schoolmaster of Liverpool, and subsequent bookkeeper in London, whose wide
knowledge of mathematics, astronomy, &c., attracted FLAMSTEED (q. v.), by whom he was invited
in 1688 to enter the Greenwich Royal Observatory, where he did notable work, improving instruments,
and showing great skill as a calculator; published "Geometry Improved," logarithmic tables,
&c. (1651-1742).

SHARP, BECKY, an intriguing character in Thackeray's "Vanity Fair," very clever, but without heart.

SHARP, GRANVILLE, a noted abolitionist, born in London; trained for the bar, but accepted a
post in the London Ordnance Office, which he held until the outbreak of the American War; was
a voluminous writer on philology, law, theology, &c., but mainly devoted himself to the cause
of negro emancipation, co-operating with Clarkson in founding the Association for the Abolition
of Negro Slavery, and taking an active interest in the new colony for freedom in Sierra Leone;
won a famous decision in the law-courts to the effect that whenever a slave set foot on English
soil he becomes free; he was also one of the founders of the Bible Society (1734-1813).

SHARP, JAMES, archbishop of St. Andrews, born in Banff Castle; educated at Aberdeen University,
visited England, where he formed important friendships, and in 1643 was appointed "regent"
or professor of Philosophy at St. Andrews, a post he resigned five years later to become minister
of Crail; during the Protectorate he sided with the "Resolutioners" or Moderates, and appeared
before Cromwell in London to plead their cause; in 1660 received a commission to go to London
to safeguard the interests of the Scottish Church, a trust he shamefully betrayed by intriguing
with Charles at Breda, and with Clarendon and the magnates of the English Church to restore
Prelacy in Scotland, he himself (by way of reward) being appointed Archbishop of St. Andrews;
henceforward he was but a pliant tool in the hands of his English employers, and an object
of intense hatred to the Covenanters; in 1668 his life was attempted in Edinburgh by Robert
Mitchell, a covenanting preacher, and ultimately on Magus Muir, May 1679, he was mercilessly
hacked to pieces by a band of Covenanters headed by Hackston and John Balfour (1618-1679).

SHASTER, a book containing the institutes of the Hindu religion or its legal requirements.

SHAWNEES, a tribe of American Indians located originally in the eastern slopes of the Alleghanies,
but now removed to Missouri, Kansas, and the Indian Territory.

SHEBA, believed to be a region in South Arabia, along the shore of the Red Sea.

SHECHINAH, a glory as of the Divine presence over the mercy-seat in the Jewish Tabernacle,
and reflected from the winged cherubim which overshadowed it, the reality of which it is the
symbol being the Divine presence in man.

SHEEPSHANKS, JOHN, art collector, born at Leeds, son of a manufacturer; presented in 1856 a
collection of works by British artists to the nation, now housed in South Kensington (1787-1863).

SHEERNESS (14), a fortified seaport and important garrison town with important naval dockyards
in Kent, occupying the NW. corner of Sheppey Isle, where the Medway joins the Thames, 52 m.
E. of London; is divided into Blue-town (within the garrison, and enclosing the 60 acres of
docks), Mile-town, Banks-town, and Marina-town (noted for sea-bathing).

SHEFFIELD (324), a city of Yorkshire, and chief centre of the English cutlery trade, built
on hilly ground on the Don near its confluence with the Sheaf, whence its name, 41 m. E. of
Manchester; is a fine, clean, well-built town, with notable churches, public halls, theatres,
&c., and well equipped with libraries, hospitals, parks, colleges (e. g. Firth College), and
various societies; does a vast trade in all forms of steel, iron, and brass goods, as well
as plated and britannia-metal articles; has of late years greatly developed its manufactures
of armour-plate, rails, and other heavier goods; its importance as a centre of cutlery dates
from very early times, and the Cutlers' Company was founded in 1624; has been from Saxon times
the capital of the manor district of Hallamshire; it is divided into five parliamentary districts,
each of which sends a member to Parliament.

SHEFFIELD, JOHN, Duke of Buckinghamshire, son of the Earl of Mulgrave, whose title he succeeded
to in 1658; served in the navy during the Dutch wars of Charles II.; held office under James
II., and was by William III. created Marquis of Normanby; a staunch Tory in Anne's reign, he
was rewarded with a dukedom, lost office through opposing Marlborough, but was reinstated after
1710, and in George I.'s reign worked in the Stuart interest; wrote an "Essay on Poetry," &c.
(1649-1721).

SHEIKH, the chief of an Arab tribe; used often as a title of respect, Sheikh-ul-Islam being
the ecclesiastical head of Mohammedans in Turkey.

SHEIL, RICHARD LALOR, Irish patriot, born in Tipperary; bred to the bar; gave himself for some
time to literature, living by it; joined the Catholic Association; was distinguished for his
oratory and his devotion, alongside of O'Connell, to Catholic emancipation; supported the Whig
Government, and held office under Melbourne and Lord John Russell (1791-1851).

SHEKEL, among the ancient Hebrews originally a weight, and eventually the name of a coin of
gold or silver, or money of a certain weight, the silver = 5s. per oz., and the gold = £4.

SHELBURNE, WILLIAM PETTY, EARL OF, statesman, born in Dublin; succeeded to his father's title
in 1761, a few weeks after his election to the House of Commons; held office in the ministries
of Grenville (1763), of Chatham (1766), and of Rockingham (1782); his acceptance of the Premiership
in 1782, after Rockingham's death, led to the resignation of Fox and the entry of William Pitt,
at the age of 23, into the Cabinet; his short ministry (July 1782 to Feb. 1783) saw the close
of the Continental and American wars, and the concession of independence to the colonies, collapsing
shortly afterwards before the powerful coalition of Fox and North; in 1784, on his retirement
from politics, was created Marquis of Lansdowne; was a Free-Trader, supporter of Catholic emancipation,
and otherwise liberal in his views, but rather tactless in steering his way amid the troublous
politics of his time (1737-1805).

SHELDONIAN THEATRE, "Senate House" of Oxford; so called from Gilbert Sheldon, archbishop of
Canterbury, who built it.

SHELLEY, MARY WOLLSTONECRAFT, author of "Frankenstein," daughter of William Godwin and Mary
Wollstonecraft; became the wife of the poet Shelley in 1816 after a two years' illicit relationship;
besides "Frankenstein" (1828), wrote several romances, "The Last Man," "Lodore," &c., also
"Rambles in Germany and Italy"; edited with valuable notes her husband's works (1797-1851).

SHELLEY, PERCY BYSSHE, born at Field Place, near Horsham, Sussex, eldest son of Sir Timothy
Shelley, a wealthy landed proprietor; was educated at Eton, and in 1810 went to Oxford, where
his impatience of control and violent heterodoxy of opinion, characteristic of him throughout,
burst forth in a pamphlet "The Necessity of Atheism," which led to his expulsion in 1811, along
with Jefferson Hogg, his subsequent biographer; henceforth led a restless, wandering life;
married at 19 Harriet Westbrook, a pretty girl of 16, a school companion of his sister, from
whom he was separated within three years; under the influence of WILLIAM GODWIN (q. v.) his
revolutionary ideas of politics and society developed apace; engaged in quixotic political
enterprises in Dublin, Lynmouth, and elsewhere, and above all put to practical test Godwin's
heterodox view on marriage by eloping (1814) to the Continent with his daughter Mary, whom
he married two years later after the unhappy suicide of Harriet; in 1816, embittered by lord
Eldon's decision that he was unfit to be trusted with the care of Harriet's children, and with
consumption threatening, he left England never to return; spent the few remaining years of
his life in Italy, chiefly at Lucca, Florence, and Pisa, in friendly relations with Byron,
Leigh Hunt, Trelawney, &c.; during this time were written his greatest works, "Prometheus Unbound,"
"The Cenci," his noble lament on Keats, "Adonais," besides other longer works, and most of
his finest lyrics, "Ode to the South Wind," "The Skylark," &c.; was drowned while returning
in an open sailing-boat from Leghorn to his home on Spezia Bay; "An enthusiast for humanity
generally," says Professor Saintsbury, "and towards individuals a man of infinite generosity
and kindliness, he yet did some of the cruellest and some of not the least disgraceful things
from mere childish want of realising the pacta conventa of the world;" Shelley is pre-eminently
the poet of lyric emotion, the subtle and most musical interpreter of vague spiritual longing
and intellectual desire; his poems form together "the most sensitive," says Stopford Brooke,
"the most imaginative, and the most musical, but the least tangible lyrical poetry we possess"
(1792-1821).

SHENANDOAH, a river of Virginia, formed by two head-streams rising in Augusta Co., which unite
85 m. W. of Washington, and flowing NE. through the beautiful "Valley of Virginia," falls into
the Potomac at Harper's Ferry, after a course of 170 m.; also the name of a town (16) in Pennsylvania,
138 m. NW. of Philadelphia; centre of an important coal district.

SHENSTONE, WILLIAM, poet, born, the son of a landed proprietor, at Hales-Owen, Shropshire;
was educated at Pembroke College, Oxford, and during the years 1737-42 produced three vols.
of poetry, the most noted being "The Schoolmistress"; succeeded to his father's estate in 1745,
and entered with much enthusiasm and reckless expenditure into landscape-gardening, which won
him in his day a wider reputation than his poetry; his "Essays" have considerable critical
merit and originality, while his poetry--ballads odes, songs, &c.--has a music and grace despite
its conventional diction (1714-1763).

SHEOL, the dark underworld or Hades of the Hebrews, inhabited by the shades of the dead.

SHEPHERD KINGS or HYKSOS, a tribe of shepherds, alleged to have invaded Lower Egypt 2000 years
before Christ, overthrown the reigning dynasty, and maintained their supremacy for 200 years.

SHEPHERD OF SALISBURY PLAIN, name of the hero, a shepherd of the name of Saunders, in a tract
written by Hannah More, characterised by homely wisdom and simple piety.

SHEPPARD, JACK, a notorious criminal, whose audacious robberies and daring escapes from Newgate
Prison made him for a time the terror and talk of London; drew some 200,000 people to witness
his execution at Tyburn; figures as the hero of a well-known novel by Harrison Ainsworth (1702-1724).

SHEPPEY, ISLE OF, an islet in the estuary of the Thames, at the mouth of the Medway, belonging
to Kent, from which it is separated by the Swale (spanned by a swing-bridge); great clay cliffs
rise on the N., and like the rest of the island, are rich in interesting fossil remains; corn
is grown, and large flocks of sheep raised; chief town is SHEERNESS (q. v.), where the bulk
of the people are gathered; is gradually diminishing before the encroaching sea.

SHERBORNE (4), an interesting old town of Dorsetshire, pleasantly situated on rising ground
overlooking the Yeo, 118 m. SW. of London; has one of the finest Perpendicular minsters in
South England, ruins of an Elizabethan castle, and King Edward's School, founded in 1550, and
ranking among the best of English public schools.

SHERBROOKE, ROBERT LOW, VISCOUNT, statesman, born, the son of a rector, at Bingham, Notts;
graduated at Oxford; obtained a Fellowship, and in 1836 was called to the bar; six years later
emigrated to Australia; made his mark at the Sydney bar, taking at the same time an active
part in the politics of the country; returned to England in 1850, and entered Parliament, holding
office under Lord Aberdeen (1853) and Lord Palmerston (1855); education became his chief interest
for some time, and in 1866 he fiercely opposed the Whig Reform Bill, but subsequently made
amends to his party by his powerful support of Gladstone's Irish Church Disestablishment Bill,
and was included in the Liberal ministry of 1868 as Chancellor of the Exchequer, a post he
held till 1873, when he became Home Secretary; a man of great intellectual force and independency
of judgment; created a viscount in 1880; was D.C.L. of Oxford and LL.D. of Edinburgh (1811-1892).

SHERE ALI, Ameer of Afghanistan, son and successor of Dost Mohammed, at first favoured by Britain,
but at last distrusted and was driven from the throne (1823-1879).

SHERIDAN, PHILIP HENRY, a distinguished American general, born, of Irish parentage, in Albany,
New York; obtained a cadetship at West Point Military Academy, and entered the army as a second-lieutenant
in 1853; served in Texas and during the Civil War; won rapid promotion by his great dash and
skill as commander of a cavalry regiment; gained wide repute by his daring raids into the S.;
cleared the Confederates out of the Shenandoah Valley in 1864, and by his famous ride (October
19, 1864) from Winchester to Cedar Creek snatched victory out of defeat, routing the conjoined
forces of Early and Lee; received the thanks of Congress, and was created major-general; took
an active part under Grant in compelling the surrender of Lee, and in bringing the war to a
close; subsequently during Grant's presidency was promoted to lieutenant-general; visited Europe
in 1870 to witness the Franco-German War, and in 1883 succeeded Sherman as general-in-chief
of the American army (1831-1888).

SHERIDAN, RICHARD BRINSLEY BUTLER, dramatist and politician, born in Dublin; educated at Harrow;
was already committed to literature when, in 1773, he settled down in London with his gifted
young wife, Elizabeth Linley, and scored his first success with the "Rivals" in 1775, following
it up with the overrated "Duenna"; aided by his father-in-law became owner of Drury Lane Theatre,
which somewhat lagged till the production of his most brilliant satirical comedy, "The School
for Scandal" (1777) and the "Critic" set flowing the tide of prosperity; turning his attention
next to politics he entered Parliament under Fox's patronage in 1780, and two years later became
Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs in Rockingham's ministry; his great speech (1787) impeaching
Hastings for his treatment of the Begums placed him in the front rank of orators, but although
he sat for 32 years in Parliament, only once again reached the same height of eloquence in
a speech (1794) supporting the French Revolution, and generally failed to establish himself
as a reliable statesman; meanwhile his theatrical venture had ended disastrously, and other
financial troubles thickening around him, he died in poverty, but was accorded a burial in
Westminster Abbey (1751-1816).

SHERIF or SHEREEF, a title of dignity among Mohammedans of either sex bestowed upon descendants
of the Prophet through his daughters Fatima and Ali; as a distinguishing badge women wear a
green veil, and men a green turban.

SHERIFF, in England the chief officer of the Crown in every county, appointed annually, and
intrusted with the execution of the laws and the maintenance of peace and order, with power
to summon the posse commitatus. The office originated in Anglo-Saxon times, when it exercised
wide judicial functions which have been gradually curtailed, and such duties as remain--the
execution of writs, enforcement of legal decisions, &c., are mostly delegated to an under-sheriff
(usually a lawyer) and bound-bailiffs, while the sheriff himself, generally a person of wealth
(the office being unsalaried and compulsory, but not necessarily for more than one year) discharges
merely honorary duties. In Scotland the sheriff, or sheriff-depute as he is called, is the
chief judge of the county, and has under him one or more sheriffs-substitute, upon whom devolves
the larger portion of the important and multifarious duties of his office. In America the sheriff
is the chief administrative officer of the county, but exercises no judicial functions at all.

SHERIFFMUIR, a barren spot stretching N. of the Ochils, in Perthshire, 5 m. NE. of Stirling;
was the scene of an indecisive conflict between 9000 Jacobites under the Earl of Mar and 3500
Royalists under the Duke of Argyll, November 13, 1715.

SHERLOCK, THOMAS, English prelate, born in London; became bishop in succession of Bangor, Salisbury,
and London, declining the Primacy; wrote several theological works, and took up arms against
the rationalists of the day, such as Collins and Woolston (1678-1761).

SHERLOCK HOLMES, an amateur detective, a creation of Dr. Conan Doyle.

SHERMAN, WILLIAM TECUMSEH, a distinguished American general, born, the son of a judge, in Lancaster,
Ohio; first saw service as a lieutenant of artillery in the Indian frontier wars in Florida
and California; resigned from the army in 1853, and set up as a banker in San Francisco, but
at the outbreak of the Civil War accepted a colonelcy in the Federalist ranks; distinguished
himself at the battles of Bull Run (1861) and Shiloh (1862); received promotion, and as second
in command to Grant rendered valuable service in reducing Vicksburg and Memphis; was present
at the victory of Chattanooga, and during 1864 entered into command of the SW.; captured the
stronghold of Atlanta, and after a famous march seaward with 65,000 men took Savannah, which
he followed up with a series of victories in the Carolinas, receiving, on 26th April 1865,
the surrender of General Johnston, which brought the war to a close; was created general and
commander-in-chief of the army in 1869, a position he held till 1869; published memoirs of
his military life (1820-1891).

SHERWOOD FOREST, once an extensive forest, the scene of Robin Hood's exploits, in Nottinghamshire,
stretching some 25 m. between Worksop and Nottingham, but now a hilly, disafforested tract
occupied by country houses and private parks, several villages, and the town of Mansfield.

SHETLAND or ZETLAND (29), a group of over 100 islands, islets, and skerries, of which 29 are
inhabited, forming the northernmost county of Scotland, lying out in the Atlantic, NNE. of
the Orkneys; Mainland (378 sq. m.), Fell, and Unst are the largest; the coast-line is boldly
precipitous and indented, while the scenery all over the island is very grand; the soil is
peaty, ill adapted to cultivation, but there is considerable rearing of stock, and the little
shaggy pony is well known; fishing is the chief industry, herring, cod, ling, &c. LERWICK (q.
v.) is the capital.

SHIBBOLETH, a word by which the Gileadites distinguished an Ephraimite from his inability to
sound the sh in the word, and so discovered whether he was friend or foe; hence it has come
to denote a party cry or watchword.

SHIELDS, NORTH, a flourishing seaport of Northumberland, on the Tyne, near the mouth, 8 m.
NE. of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, and lying within the municipal borough of Tynemouth (47); is of
quite modern growth, and of a plain, uninteresting appearance; has a theatre, free library,
Mariners' Home, fine park, &c.; the docks cover 79 acres, and a large export trade in coal
is carried on.

SHIELDS, SOUTH (78), a busy seaport and popular watering-place in Durham, with a frontage of
2 m. on the south bank of the Tyne, 9 m. NE. of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, a place of residence from
ancient times, with Roman remains, &c.; has a theatre, public library, marine school, two fine
parks with central parade, 50 acres of docks, &c.; exports immense quantities of coal and coke.

SHIITES, a sect of the Mohammedans, who reject the "SUNNA" (q. v.) and championed the claims
of Ali Mahommed's cousin and son-in-law to succeed to the Caliphate, and maintain the divine
right of his descendants to represent the prophet in the Mohammedan Church. The Persians belong
to this sect.

SHIKARPUR (42), capital of a district (853) in N. Sind, India, situated on rich alluvial ground,
18 m. W. of the Indus, and 330 m. N. of Karachi; since the opening of the Indus Valley Railway
it has lost much of its importance as a commercial entrepôt between India and Khorassan; vicinity
produces excellent grain crops, and carpets, cottons, &c., are manufactured in the town.

SHILOH, a village 20 m. N. of Jerusalem, sacred as the site of the resting-place of the Tabernacle
on the settlement of the Jews in the land of promise. Is a name also of the Messiah.

SHINAR, the vast alluvial plain extending along the Tagus and Euphrates, forming the country
of Chaldea and Babylonia.

SHINTOISM, the native religion of Japan; a system of ancestor worship chiefly, combined with
which is a religious homage paid to the Mikado.

SHIP-MONEY, a tax levied by Charles I. at the suggestion of Noy, the Attorney-General, who
based its imposition on an old war-tax leviable on port-towns to furnish a navy in times of
danger, and which Charles imposed in a time of peace without consent of Parliament, and upon
inland as well as port-towns, provoking thereby wide-spread dissatisfaction, and Hampden's
refusal to pay, which with the trial and decision in favour of Charles contributed to bring
about the Civil War, which cost Charles his life; was declared illegal by the Long Parliament
in 1640.

SHIPTON, MOTHER, a prophetess of English legend, whose preternatural knowledge revealed in
her prophecies, published after her death, was ascribed to an alliance with the devil, by whom
it was said she became the mother of an ugly impish child.

SHIRAZ (30), a celebrated city of Persia, occupying a charming site on an elevated plain, 165
m. NE. of Bushire; founded in the 8th century; was for long a centre of Persian culture, and
a favourite resort of the royal princes; its beauties are celebrated in the poems of Häfiz
and Sádi, natives of the place; has been thrice wrecked by earthquakes, and presents now a
somewhat dilapidated appearance.

SHIRÉ, a river of East Africa, flows out of Lake Nyassa, and passes in a southerly course through
the Shiré Highlands, a distance of 370 m., till it joins the Zambesi; discovered by Livingstone.

SHIRLEY, JAMES, dramatist, born in London, educated at Oxford and Cambridge; entered the Church,
but turning Catholic resigned, and after trying teaching established himself in London as a
play-writer; wrote with great facility, producing upwards of thirty plays before the suppression
of theatres in 1642; fell back on teaching as a means of livelihood, and with a temporary revival
of his plays after the Restoration eked out a scanty income till fear and exposure during the
Great Fire brought himself and his wife on the same day to a common grave; of his plays mention
may be made of "The Witty Fair One," "The Wedding," "The Lady of Pleasure," "The Traitor,"
etc. (1596-1666).

SHISHAK, the name of several monarchs of Egypt of the twenty-second dynasty, the first of whom
united nearly all Egypt under one government, invaded Judea and plundered the Temple of Jerusalem
about 962 B.C.

SHITTIM WOOD, a hard, close-grained acacia wood of an orange-brown colour found in the Arabian
Desert, and employed in constructing the Jewish Tabernacle.

SHOA (1,500), the southmost division of ABYSSINIA (q. v.); was an independent country till
its conquest by Theodore of Abyssinia in 1855; is traversed by the Blue Nile, and has a mixed
population of Gallas and Abyssinians.

SHODDY, a stuff woven of old woollen fabrics teased into fibre and of new wool intermixed.

SHOEBURYNESS, a town in Essex, near Southend, a stretch of moorland utilised by the Government
for gunnery practice.

SHOLAPUR (61), chief town in the Presidency of Bombay, in a district (750) of the name, 283
m. E. of Bombay; has cotton and silk manufactures.

SHORE, JANE, the celebrated mistress of Edward IV.; was the young wife of a respected London
goldsmith till she was taken up by the king, through whom, till the close of the reign, she
exercised great power, "never abusing it to any man's hurt, but to many a man's comfort and
relief"; was ill-treated and persecuted by Richard III. for political purposes; subsequently
lived under the patronage of Lord Hastings, and afterwards of the Marquis of Dorset, surviving
till 1527; the story of her life has been made the subject of many ballads, plays, etc.

SHOREDITCH (120), parliamentary borough of East London; returns two members to Parliament;
manufactures furniture, boot and shoes, beer, etc.

SHOREHAM, NEW, a seaport 6 m. W. of Brighton; has oyster and other fisheries, and shipbuilding
yards.

SHORTHOUSE, JOSEPH HENRY, author of "John Inglesant," born in Birmingham; wrote also "Sir Percival"
and "Little Schoolmaster Mark," etc.; is remarkable for his refined style of writing, latterly
too much so; his first work, "John Inglesant," published in 1881, is his best; b. 1834.

SHOVEL, SIR CLOUDESLEY, a celebrated English admiral, born at Clay, in Norfolk; was apprenticed
to a cobbler, but ran away to sea, and rose from grade to grade till in 1674 we find him a
lieutenant in the Mediterranean fleet; was knighted in 1689 for his gallantry as commander
of a ship in the battle of Bantry Bay, and in the following year as rear-admiral was prominent
at the engagement off Beachy Head; in 1692 gave heroic assistance to Admiral Russell at La
Hogue, and in 1702 to Rooke at Malaga; elevated to the commandership of the English fleets
he in 1705 captured Barcelona, but on his way home from an unsuccessful attack upon Toulon
was wrecked on the Scilly Isles and drowned (1650-1707).

SHREWSBURY (27), county town of Shropshire, situated on a small peninsula formed by a horse-shoe
bend of the Severn, 42 m. W. by N. of Birmingham; three fine bridges span the river here, connecting
it with several extensive suburbs; a picturesque old place with winding streets and quaint
timber dwelling-houses, a Norman castle, abbey church, ruined walls, etc. The public school,
founded by Edward VI., ranks amongst the best in England; figures often in history as a place
where Parliament met in 1397-98, and in 1403 gave its name to the battle which resulted in
the defeat of Hotspur and the Earl of Douglas by Henry IV.; it was taken by the Parliamentarians
in 1644; chief industries are glass-painting, malting, and iron-founding.

SHROPSHIRE or SALOP (236), an agricultural and mining county of England, on the Welsh border,
facing Montgomery chiefly, between Cheshire (N.) and Hereford (S.); is divided into two fairly
equal portions by the Severn, E. and N. of which is low, level, and fertile, excepting the
Wrekin (1320 ft.), while on the SW. it is hilly (Clee Hills, 1805 ft.); Ellesmere is the largest
of several lakes; Coalbrookdale is the centre of a rich coal district, and iron and lead are
also found. Shrewsbury is the capital; it consists of four Parliamentary divisions.

SHROVETIDE, confession-time, especially the days immediately before Lent, when, in Catholic
times, the people confessed their sins to the parish priest and afterwards gave themselves
up to sports, and dined on pancakes, Shrove Tuesday being Tuesday before Ash Wednesday, or
the first day of Lent.

SHUMLA or SHUMNA (24), a fortified city of Bulgaria, 80 m. SE. of Rustchuk; has an arsenal,
barracks, etc., is an important strategical centre between the Lower Danube and the East Balkans.

SHYLOCK, the Jew in Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice."

SIAM (9,000 of Siamese, Chinese, Shans, and Malays), occupies the central portion of the Indo-Chinese
peninsula, wedged in between Annam and Cambodia (E.) and Burma (W.), and extending down into
the Malay Peninsula; the wide Gulf of Siam forms the southern boundary; the rich alluvial valleys
of the Menam and the Mekhong produce great quantities of rice (chief export), teak-wood, hemp,
tobacco, cotton, etc., but of the land surface only about one-twentieth is cultivated, a large
portion of the rest lying under forest and jungle; the Siamese are indolent, ignorant, ceremonious,
and the trade is mainly in the hands of the Chinese; the mining of gold, tin, and especially
rubies and sapphires, is also carried on. Buddhism is the national religion, and elementary
education is well advanced; government is vested in a king (at present an enlightened and English-educated
monarch) and council of ministers; since Sir J. Bowring's treaty in 1856, opening up the country
to European trade and influences, progress has been considerable in roads and railway, electric,
telephonic, and postal communication. BANGKOK (q. v.) is the capital. In 1893 a large tract
of territory NE. of the Mekhong was ceded to France.

SIAMESE TWINS, twins born in Siam, of Chinese parents, whose bodies were united by a fleshy
band extended between corresponding breast-bones; were purchased from their mother and exhibited
in Europe and America, realised a competency by their exhibitions, married and settled in the
States; having lost by the Civil War, they came over to London and exhibited, where they died,
one 2½ hours after the other (1811-1874).

SIBBALD, SIR ROBERT, physician and naturalist, born in Edinburgh, of Balgonie, Fife; established
a botanic garden in Edinburgh, and was one of the founders of the Royal College of Physicians
(16411712).

SIBERIA (5,000), a vast Russian territory in North Asia (one and a third times the size of
Europe), stretching from the Ural Mountains (W.) to the seas of Behring, Okhotsk, and Japan
(E.), bounded on the N. by the Arctic Ocean and on the S. by China and the Central Asiatic
provinces of Russia; forms in the main an immense plain, sloping from the Altai and other mountain
ranges on the S. to the dreary, ice-bound littoral on the N., drained by the northward-flowing
Obi, Irtish, Yenesei, Lena, &c., embracing every kind of soil, from the fertile grain-growing
plains of the S. and rich grazing steppe-land of the W. to the forest tracts and bogland of
the N. and experiencing a variety of climates, but for the most part severely cold; hunting,
fishing, and mining are the chief industries, with agriculture and stock-raising in the S.
and W. The great Trans-Siberian Railway, in construction since 1891, is opening up the country,
which is divided into eight "governments," the chief towns being Tomsk, Irkutsk, Omsk, and
Tobolsk; three-fifths of the population are Russians, chiefly exiles and descendants of exiles.
Russian advance in Asia against the Tartars was begun in 1850, and was carried on by warlike
Cossack marauders, followed by hunters, droves of escaping serfs, and persecuted religious sects.

SIBYL, name given to a woman, or rather to a number of women, much fabled of in antiquity,
regarded by Ruskin as representing the voice of God in nature, and, as such, endowed with visionary
prophetic power, or what in the Highlands of Scotland is called "second-sight"; the most famous
of the class being the Sibyl of Cumæ, who offered King Tarquin of Rome nine books for sale,
which he refused on account of the exorbitant sum asked for them, and again refused after she
had burnt three of them, and in the end paid what was originally asked for the three remaining,
which he found to contain oracular utterances bearing on the worship of the gods and the policy
of Rome. These, after being entrusted to keepers, were afterwards burned, and the contents
replaced by a commission appointed to collect them in the countries around, to share the same
fate as the original collection. The name is applied in mediæval times to figures representative
of the prophets who foretold the coming of Christ; the prophets so represented were reckoned
sometimes 10, sometimes 12 in number; they are, says Fairholt, "of tall stature, full of vigour
and moral energy; the costume rich but conventional, ornamented with pearls and precious stones."

SICILIAN VESPERS, name given to a massacre of the French in Sicily at the hour of vespers on
the eve of Easter Monday in 1282, the signal for the commencement being the first stroke of
the vesper bell; the massacre included men and women and children to the number of 8000 souls,
and was followed by others throughout the island.

SICILY (3,285), the largest island in the Mediterranean, lying off the SW. extremity of Italy,
to which it belongs, and from which it is separated by the narrow strait of Messina, 2 m. broad;
the three extremities of its triangular configuration form Capes Faro (NE.), Passaro (S.),
and Boco (W.); its mountainous interior culminates in the volcanic Etna, and numerous streams
rush swiftly down the thickly-wooded valleys; the coast-lands are exceptionally fertile, growing
(although agricultural methods are extremely primitive) excellent crops of wheat and barley,
as well as an abundance of fruit; sulphur-mining is an important industry, and large quantities
of the mineral are exported; enjoys a fine equable climate, but malaria is in parts endemic;
the inhabitants are a mixed--Greek, Italian, Arabic, &c.--race, and differ considerably in
language and appearance from Italians proper; are ill-governed, and as a consequence discontented
and backward, even brigandage not yet being entirely suppressed. Palermo, the largest city,
is situated on the precipitous N. coast. As part of the "Kingdom of the Two Sicilies," comprising
Sicily and Naples, it was overrun by Garibaldi in 1860, and in the same year was incorporated
with the kingdom of Italy.

SICKINGEN, FRANZ VON, a German free-lance, a man of a knightly spirit and great prowess; had
often a large following, Götz von Berlichingen of the number, and joined the cause of the Reformation;
lost his life by a musket-shot when besieged in the castle of Landstuhl; he was a warm friend
of Ulrich von Hutten (1481-1523).

SICYON, a celebrated city of ancient Greece, was situated near the Corinthian Gulf, 7 m. NW.
of Corinth; was an important centre of Grecian art, especially of bronze sculptures and painting;
in the time of Aratus (251 B.C.) figured as one of the chief cities of the Achæan League; only
a few remains now mark its site.

SIDDONS, SARAH, the greatest tragic actress of England, born at Brecon, the daughter and eldest
child of Roger Kemble, manager of an itinerant theatrical company; became early a member of
her father's company, and at 19 married an actor named Siddons who belonged to it; her first
appearance in Drury Lane as Portia in 1755 was a failure; by 1782 her fame was established,
after which she joined her brother, John Kemble, at Covent Garden, and continued to act there
till her retirement in 1812; she was distinguished in many parts, and above all Lady Macbeth,
in which character she took farewell of the stage; she appeared once again in London after
this in 1815, for the benefit of her brother Charles, and again a few nights in Edinburgh in
aid of a widowed daughter-in-law (1755-1831).

SIDEREAL YEAR, the period during which the earth makes a revolution in its orbit with respect
to the stars.

SIDGWICK, HENRY, writer on ethics, born at Shipton, Yorkshire; professor of Moral Philosophy
at Cambridge; "Methods of Ethics," being a compromise between the intuitionalists and utilitarians,
"the Principles of Political Economy," and the "Elements of Politics"; he holds a high place
in all these three studies; b. 1838.

SIDLAW HILLS, a range of hills extending from Kinnoul Hill, near Perth, NE. to Brechin, in
Forfarshire; most interesting point Dunsinane (1114 ft.).

SIDMOUTH (4), a pretty little watering-place on the S. Devonshire coast, 14 m. ESE. of Exeter;
lies snugly between high cliffs at the mouth of a small stream, the Sid; is an ancient place,
and has revived in popularity since the opening of the railway; has a fine promenade 1½ m. long.

SIDMOUTH, HENRY ADDINGTON, VISCOUNT, statesman, born in London, the son of a physician; studied
at Oxford, and was called to the bar, but gave up law for politics, entered Parliament in 1783,
and was Speaker from 1789 till 1801, in which year, after the fall of Pitt over Catholic emancipation,
he formed a ministry, assuming himself the offices of First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor
of the Exchequer. This ministry of the "King's Friends" went out of office in 1804, after negotiating
the Peace of Amiens (1802), and in subsequent governments of Pitt Sidmouth held various offices,
being an unpopular Home Secretary from 1812 to 1821; created viscount in 1805 (1757-1844).

SIDNEY or SYDNEY, ALGERNON, a noted politician and soldier of extreme republican views, second
son of Robert, second Earl of Leicester; first came into public notice in 1641-1642 by his
gallant conduct as leader of a troop of horse in the Irish Rebellion; came over to England
in 1643, joined the Parliamentarians, rose to a colonelcy and command of a regiment in 1645;
was subsequently governor of Dublin and of Dover (1647), entered Parliament (1646), and although
appointed one of the commissioners to try Charles I., absented himself from the proceedings,
but afterwards approved of the execution; withdrew from politics during Cromwell's Protectorate,
but on the reinstating of the Long Parliament (1659) became a member of the Council of State;
was on a diplomatic mission to Denmark when the Restoration took place, and till his pardon
in 1677 led a wandering life on the Continent; intrigued with Louis XIV. against Charles II.,
assisted William Penn in drawing up the republican constitution of Pennsylvania, was on trumped-up
evidence tried for complicity in the Rye House Plot and summarily sentenced to death by Judge
Jeffreys, the injustice of his execution being evidenced by the reversal of his attainder in
1689 (1622-1683).

SIDNEY, SIR PHILIP, poet, and one of the most attractive figures at Elizabeth's court, born
at Penshurst, Kent, the son of Sir Henry Sidney, lord-deputy of Ireland; quitted Oxford in
1572, and in the manner of the time finished his education by a period of Continental travel,
from which he returned imbued with the love of Italian literature; took his place at once in
the court of Elizabeth, his uncle, the Earl of Leicester, being then high in favour, and received
rapid promotion, being sent as ambassador in 1576 to the court of Vienna; nor was his favour
with the queen impaired by his bold "Remonstrance" against her marriage with the Duke of Anjou,
and in 1583 received a knighthood; two years later, "lest she should lose the jewel of her
dominions" the queen forbade him to accompany Drake to the West Indies, and appointed him governor
of Flushing, but in the following year he received his death-wound at the battle of Zutphen
gallantly leading a troop of Netherlander against the Spaniards; his fame as an author rests
securely on his euphuistic prose romance "Arcadia," his critical treatise "The Defence of Poesy,"
and above all on his exquisite sonnet-series "Astrophel and Stella," in which he sings the
story of his hapless love for Penelope Devereux, who married Lord Rich; was the friend of Edmund
Spenser, and the centre of an influential literary circle (1554-1586).

SIDON, an ancient Phoenician city on the E. of the Mediterranean, 20 m. N. of Tyre, with an
extensive commerce; was famed for its glass and purple dye; also suffered many a reverse of
fortune.

SIEBENGEBIRGE, a range of hills on the right bank of the Rhine, 20 m. above Köln, distinguished
by its seven high peaks.

SIEGFRIED, a hero of various Scandinavian and Teutonic legends, and especially of the "NIBELUNGEN
LIED" (q. v.), was rendered invulnerable by bathing in the blood of a dragon which he had slain,
except at a spot on his body which had been covered by a falling leaf; he wore a cloak which
rendered him invisible, and wielded a miraculous sword named BALMUNG (q. v.).

SIEMENS, WERNER VON, a celebrated German electrician and inventor, born at Lenthe, Hanover;
served in the Prussian artillery, and rendered valuable services in developing the telegraphic
system of Prussia; patented a process for electro-plating in gold and silver, and was the first
to employ electricity in exploding submarine mines; retired from the army in 1849, and along
with Halske established a business in Berlin for telegraphic and electrical apparatus, which
has become notable throughout the world, having branches in several cities; made many contributions
to electrical science; was ennobled in 1888 (1816-1892).

SIEMENS, SIR WILLIAM (Karl William), younger brother of the preceding, born at Lenthe, Hanover;
like his brother took to science, and in 1844 settled in England, naturalising in 1859; was
manager of the English branch of the Siemens Brothers firm, and did much to develop electric
lighting and traction (Portrush Electric Tramway); his inventive genius was productive of a
heat-economising furnace, a water-meter, pyrometer, bathometer, &c.; took an active part in
various scientific societies; was President of the British Association (1882), and received
a knighthood in 1883 (1823-1883).

SIENNA or SIENA (28), an interesting old Italian city of much importance during the Middle
Ages, in Central Italy, 60 m. S. of Florence, is still surrounded by its ancient wall, and
contains several fine Gothic structures, notably its cathedral (13th century) and municipal
palace; has a university and institute of fine arts; silk and cloth weaving, and a wine and
oil trade are the chief industries.

SIERRA, the name given to a range of mountains with a saw-like ridge.

SIERRA LEONE (75), a British maritime colony since 1787, on the W. coast of Africa, having
a foreshore of 180 m. between Rivières du Sud (N.) and Liberia (S.); includes the peninsula
of Sierra Leone proper with its densely-wooded Sugar-Loaf Mountain, and a number of coast islands,
and stretches back to a highland eastern frontier ill defined; the climate is hot, humid, and
unhealthy; has been called "The White Man's Grave"; is fertile, but not well exploited by the
indolent negro population, half of whom are descendants from freed slaves; ground-nuts, kola-nuts,
ginger, hides, palm-oil, &c., are the principal exports. FREETOWN (q. v.) is the capital. The
executive power is exercised by a governor and council of five.

SIERRA MADRE, the main cordillera system of Mexico, extending in a northerly direction to Arizona,
and forming the western buttress of a fertile plateau stretching eastwards; to the W. the States
of Sinaloa and Sonora slope downwards to the sea.

SIERRA MORENA, a mountain chain in South Spain, forming the watershed between the valleys of
the Gaudiana (N.) and Guadalquivir (S.); has valuable deposits of lead, silver, quicksilver,
and other metals.

SIERRA NEVADA, 1, a mountain range in South Spain, 60 m. in length; lies for the most part
in Granada, crossing the province E. and W. in bold, rugged lines, and clad on its higher parts
with perpetual snow, whence the name; Mulhacen (11,660 ft.) is the highest peak. 2, A mountain
system in California, stretching NW. and SE. 450 m., and forming the eastern buttress of the
Great Central Valley; highest peak Mount Whitney (14,886 ft.). 3, A lofty mountain group in
Colombia, South America, stretching NE. almost to the borders of Venezuela.

SIEYÈS, ABBÉ, a conspicuous figure all through the French Revolution, the Consulate, and the
Empire, who thought in his simplicity that the salvation of France and the world at large depended
on sound political institutions, in the drafting of which he spent his life; was born in Frèjus,
of the bourgeois class; represented Paris in the States General; sat in the Centre in the Legislative
Assembly; renounced the Christian religion in favour of the Goddess of Reason; projected a
constitution which was rejected; supported Napoleon; fled to Belgium on the return of the Bourbons,
and returned to France in 1830, by which time he was politically defunct (1748-1836).

SIGISMUND, emperor of Germany, son of the Emperor Charles IV., was markgrave of Brandenburg,
king of Hungary, and palatine of the Rhine; struggled hard to suppress the Hussites; held the
Council of Constance, and gave HUSS (q. v.) a safe-conduct to his doom; he is the "Super Grammaticam"
of Carlyle's "Frederick" (1362-1437).

SIGISMUND is the name of three kings of Poland, the last of whom died in 1632.

SIGNORELLI, LUCA, the precursor of Michael Angelo in Italian art, born at Cortona; studied
at Arezzo under Piero della Francesca, and became distinguished for the accurate anatomy of
his figures and for the grandeur and originality of design exhibited in his admirable frescoes
of religious subjects at Loretto, Orviëto, and elsewhere (1441-1525).

SIGOURNEY, MRS., American authoress, was a prolific writer; wrote tales, poems, essays, chiefly
on moral and religious subjects; was called the American Hemans (1791-1863).

SIGURD. See SIEGFRIED.

SIKHS (lit. disciples), a native religious and military community, scattered, to the number
of nearly two millions, over the Punjab, and forming some fifteen States dependent on the Punjab
government; founded (1469) by Baber Nanak as a religious monotheistic sect purified from the
grosser native superstitions and practices; was organised on a military footing in the 17th
century, and in the 18th century acquired a territorial status, ultimately being consolidated
in to a powerful military confederacy by Ranjit Singh, who, at the beginning of the 19th century,
extended his power over a wider territory. In 1845-46 they crossed their E. boundary, the Sutlej,
and invaded English possessions, but were defeated by Gough and Hardinge, and had to cede a
considerable portion of their territory; a second war in 1848-49 ended in the annexation of
the entire Punjab, since when the Sikhs have been the faithful allies of the English, notably
in the Indian Mutiny.

SIKKIM (7), a small native State in North-East India, lying on the southern slopes of the Himalayas,
between Nepal (W.) and Bhotan (E.); under British protection; the ruling family being Buddhist,
and of Tibetan descent.

SILAGE, the name given to green fodder, vegetables, &c., stored in stacks or pits (or silos)
under heavy pressure, the process being known as ensilage. The practice of thus preserving
green crops for fodder dates from earliest times, but its general adoption in Britain only
began in 1882 since when its spread has been rapid. Originally the process in vogue involved
slight fermentation, resulting in "sour silage," but in 1884 it was found that by delaying
the application of pressure for a day or two a rise of temperature took place sufficiently
great to destroy the bacteria producing fermentation, the result being "sweet silage." Both
kinds are readily eaten by cattle.

SILENCE, WORSHIP OF, Carlyle's name for the sacred respect for restraint in speech till "thought
has silently matured itself, ... to hold one's tongue till some meaning lie behind to set it
wagging," a doctrine which many misunderstand, almost wilfully, it would seem; silence being
to him the very womb out of which all great things are born.

SILENUS, a satyr who attended Dionysus, being his foster-father and teacher; assisted in the
war of the giants, and slew Enceladus; had the gift of vaticination; is represented as mounted
on an ass and supported by other satyrs.

SILESIA (4,224), a province of South-East Prussia, stretching S. between Russian Poland (E.)
and Austria (W. and S.); the Oder flows NW. through the heart of the country, dividing the
thickly forested and in parts marshy lands of the N. and E. from the mountainous and extremely
fertile W.; rich coal-fields lie to the S., and zinc is also a valuable product; agriculture
and the breeding of cattle, horses, and sheep flourish, as also the manufacture of cottons,
linens, &c.; Breslau is the capital; for long under the successive dominions of Poland and
Bohemia, the Silesian duchies became, in the 18th century, a casus belli between Austria and
Prussia, resulting in the SEVEN YEARS' WAR (q. v.) and the ultimate triumph of Frederick the
Great of Prussia.

SILESIA, AUSTRIAN (602), that portion of the original Silesian country preserved to Austria
after the unsuccessful struggle with Prussia; forms a duchy and crownland of Austria, and extends
SW. from the border of Prussian Silesia; agriculture and mining are the chief industries.

SILHOUETTE, name given to the profile of a portrait filled in with black; a design familiar
to the ancients, and in vogue in France during the reign of Louis XV.

SILISTRIA (12), a town of Bulgaria, on the Danube, 70 m. below Rustchuk; occupies a fine strategical
position, and is strongly fortified; withstood successfully a 39 days' siege by the Russians
during the Crimean War; cloth and leather are the chief manufactures.

SILIUS ITALICUS, a Roman poet; was consul in the year of Nero's death, and his chief work an
epic "Punica," relating the events of the Second Punic War, a dull performance.

SILLIMAN, BENJAMIN, American chemist and geologist, born in North Stratford (now Trumbull),
Connecticut; graduated at Yale, and was called to the bar in 1802, but in the same year threw
up law for science; became professor of Chemistry at Yale, a position he held for 50 years
(till 1853); did much to stimulate the study of chemistry and geology by lectures throughout
the States; founded (1818) the American Journal of Science, and was for 28 years its editor;
during 1853-55 was lecturer on Geology at Yale; his writings include "Journals of Travels in
England, Holland, and Scotland" (1779-1864). BENJAMIN SILLIMAN, son of preceding, also an active
scientist along his father's lines; founded the Yale School of Science, and filled the chairs
of Chemistry at Louisville (1849-1854) and at Yale (till 1869); was co-editor of the Journal
of Science (1845-85), and wrote various popular text-books of chemistry and physics (1816-1885).

SILLOTH (3), a watering-place of Cumberland, on the Solway Firth, 20 m. W. of Carlisle; has
good docks and an increasing commerce.

SILURES, one of the ancient British tribes occupying the SE. of Wales; conjectured to be of
Non-Aryan stock, and akin to the Iberians; offered a fierce resistance to the invading Romans.

SILVANUS, an Italian divinity, the guardian of trees, fields, and husbandmen; represented as
a hale, happy, old man.

SILVER AGE, the age in the Greek mythology in succession to the Golden; gold being viewed as
the reality, and silver the idle reflection. See AGES and GOLDEN AGE.

SIMEON, ST., the aged seer who received the infant Christ in his arms as He was presented to
the Lord by His mother in the Temple; usually so represented in Christian art.

SIMEON STYLITES, famous as one of the PILLAR SAINTS (q. v.).

SIMFEROPOL (36), a town in the Crimea, 49 m. NE. of Sebastopol; surrounded by gardens, orchards,
and vineyards; exports a great quantity of fruit.

SIMLA (15, but largely increased in summer), the chief town of a district in the Punjab, and
since 1864 the summer hill-quarters of the British Government in India; beautifully situated
on the wooded southern slopes of the Himalayas, 7156 ft. above sea-level, and 170 m. N. of
Delhi; has a cool and equable climate, and possesses two vice-regal palaces, government buildings,
beautiful villas, &c.

SIMMS, WILLIAM GILMORE, a prolific American writer, born at Charleston, South Carolina; turned
from law to literature; engaged in journalism for some years, and found favour with the public
as a writer of poems, novels, biographies, &c., in which he displays a gift for rapid, vivid
narrative, and vigour of style; "Southern Passages and Pictures" contains characteristic examples
of his poetry, and of his novels "The Yemassee," "The Partisan," and "Beauchampe" may be mentioned
(1806-1870).

SIMON, JULES, French statesman and distinguished writer on social, political, and philosophic
subjects, born at Lorient; succeeded Cousin in the chair of Philosophy at the Sorbonne; entered
the Chamber of Deputies in 1848; lost his post at the Sorbonne in 1852 for refusing to take
the oath of allegiance to Napoleon III.; subsequently became Minister of Education under Thiers
(1871-73), a life-senator in 1875, and in 1876 Republican Prime Minister; later more conservative
in his attitude, he edited the Echo Universel, and was influential as a member of the Supreme
Educational Council, and as permanent secretary of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences;
his voluminous works include treatises on "Liberty," "Natural Religion," "Education," "Labour,"
&c., and various philosophic and political essays (1814-1896).

SIMON, RICHARD, a celebrated French biblical scholar, born at Dieppe; entered the Congregation
of the Oratory in 1659, and became professor of Philosophy at the College of Juilly; was summoned
to Paris, and under orders of his superiors spent some time in cataloguing the Oriental MSS.
in the library of the Oratory; his free criticisms and love of controversy got him into trouble
with the Port-Royalists and the Benedictines, and the heterodoxy of his "Histoire Critique
du Vieux Testament" (1678) brought about his withdrawal to Belleville, where he remained as
curé till 1682, when he retired to Dieppe to continue his work on Old and New Testament criticism;
he ranks as among the first to deal with the scriptural writings as literature, and he anticipated
not a few of the later German theories (1638-1712).

SIMON MAGUS, a sorcerer, one who by his profession of magic aggrandised himself at the expense
of the people of Samaria, and who, when he saw the miracles wrought by the Apostles, and St.
Peter in particular, offered them money to confer the like power on himself; Peter's well-known
answer was not without effect on him, but it was only temporary, for he afterwards appeared
in Rome and continued to impose upon the people so as to persuade them to believe him as an
incarnation of the Most High. Hence Simony, the sin of making gain by the buying or selling
of spiritual privileges for one's material profit.

SIMONIDES OF AMORGOS, a Greek poet who flourished in the 7th century B.C.; dealt in gnome and
satire, among the latter on the different classes of women.

SIMONIDES OF CEOS, one of the most celebrated lyric poets of Greece; spent most of his life
in Athens, employed his poetic powers in celebrating the events and heroes of the Persian wars;
gained over Æschylus the prize for an elegy on those who fell at Marathon; composed epigrams
over the tombs of the Spartans who fell at Thermopylæ, and in his eightieth year was crowned
victor at Athens; shortly after this was invited by Hiero to Syracuse, at whose court he died;
his poetry was distinguished at once for sweetness and finish; he was a philosopher as well
as a poet (556-467 B.C.).

SIMOOM or SIMOON, a hot, dry wind-storm common to the arid regions of Africa, Arabia, and parts
of India; the storm moves in cyclone (circular) form, carrying clouds of dust and sand, and
produces on men and animals a suffocating effect.

SIMPLON, a mountain in the Swiss Alps, in the canton of Valais, traversed by the famous Simplon
Pass (6594 ft. high), which stretches 41 m. from Brieg in Valais to Domo d'Ossola in Piedmont,
passing over 611 bridges and through many great tunnels, built by Napoleon 1800-6.

SIMPSON, SIR JAMES YOUNG, physician, born, the son of a baker, at Bathgate, Linlithgowshire;
graduated M.D. at Edinburgh in 1832; was assistant to the professor of Pathology and one of
the Presidents of the Royal Medical Society before his election to the chair of Midwifery in
1840; as an obstetrician his improvements and writings won him wide repute, which became European
on his discovery of chloroform in 1847; was one of the Queen's physicians, and was created
a baronet in 1866; published "Obstetric Memoirs," "Archæological Essays," &c. (1811-1870).

SIMROCK, KARL JOSEPH, German scholar and poet, born at Bonn; studied at Bonn and Berlin, where
he became imbued with a love for old German literature, in connection with which he did his
best-known work; modernised the "Nibelungen Lied" (1827), and after his withdrawal from the
Prussian service gave himself to his favourite study, becoming professor of Old German in 1850,
and popularising and stimulating inquiry into the old national writings by volumes of translations,
collections of folk-songs, stories, &c.; was also author of several volumes of original poetry
(1802-1876).

SIMS, GEORGE ROBERT, playwright and novelist, born in London; was for a number of years on
the staff of Fun and a contributor to the Referee and Weekly Dispatch, making his mark by his
humorous and pathetic Dagonet ballads and stories; has been a busy writer of popular plays
(e. g. "The Lights o' London," "The Romany Rye") and novels (e. g. "Rogues and Vagabonds,"
"Dramas of Life"); contributed noteworthy letters to the Daily News on the condition of the
London poor; b. 1847.

SIMSON, ROBERT, mathematician, born in Ayrshire; abandoned his intention of entering the Church
and devoted himself to the congenial study of mathematics, of which he became professor in
the old university at Glasgow (1711), a position he held for 50 years; was the author of the
well-known "Elements of Euclid," but is most celebrated as the first restorer of Euclid's lost
treatise on "Porisms" (1687-1768).

SINAI, MOUNT, one of a range of three mountains on the peninsula between the Gulf of Suez and
the Gulf of Akaba, at the head of the Red Sea, and from the summit or slopes of which Moses
is said to have received the Ten Commandments at the hands of Jehovah.

SINCERITY, in Carlyle's ethics the one test of all worth in a human being, that he really with
his whole soul means what he is saying and doing, and is courageously ready to front time and
eternity on the stake.

SINCLAIR, name of a Scottish family of Norman origin whose founder obtained from David I. the
grant of Roslin, near Edinburgh.

SINCLAIR, SIR JOHN, philanthropist and statistician, born at Thurso Castle, bred to the bar;
succeeding to the family estate devoted himself to his duties as a landed proprietor; sat for
different constituencies in Parliament; published in 1784 "History of the Revenue of the British
Empire," and in 1791-99, in 21 vols., "Statistical Account of Scotland" (1754-1835).

SIND, SINDH, or SCINDE (2,903), a province of North-West India, in the Presidency of Bombay;
extends from Beluchistan and Punjab (N.) to the Indian Ocean and Runn of Cutch (S.); traversed
by the Indus, whose delta it includes, and whose broad alluvial valley-tracts yield abundant
crops of wheat, barley, hemp, rice, cotton, etc., which are exported, and give employment to
the majority of the people; N. and E. are wide stretches of desert-land, and in the S. are
the Hala Mountains; was annexed to the British possessions after the victories of Sir Charles
Napier in 1843; chief city and port is Kurrachee.

SINDIA, the hereditary title of the Mahratta dynasty in Gwalior, Central India, founded in
1738 by Ranojee Sindia, who rose from being slipper-bearer to the position of hereditary prime
minister of the Mahrattas; these princes, both singly and in combination with other Mahratta
powers, offered determined resistance to the British, but in 1803 the confederated Mahratta
power was broken by Sir Arthur Wellesley, and a large portion of their territory passed into
British hands. Gwalior having been restored (1805), and retaken in 1844, the Sindia dynasty
was reinstated under a more stringent treaty, and Boji Rao Sindia proved faithful during the
Mutiny, receiving various marks of good-will from the British; was succeeded by his adopted
son, a child of six, in 1886.

SINGAPORE, 1, (185, chiefly Chinese), the most important of the BRITISH STRAITS SETTLEMENTS
(q. v.); consists of the island of Singapore and upwards of 50 islets, off the southern extremity
of the Malay Peninsula, from which it is separated by a narrow strait (2 to ½ m. broad); is
hot, humid, and low-lying, yet healthy, and possessing a fertile soil which grows all kinds
of spices, fruits, sugar-cane, coffee, etc.; purchased by the British in 1824. 2, Capital (160)
and port, on the Strait of Singapore, close to the equator; the chief emporium of trade with
the East Indies and South-Eastern Asia generally; is a picturesque and handsome town, strongly
fortified, and an important naval coaling station and depôt, with spacious harbour, docks, etc.

SINOLOGY, the science treating of the language, literature, laws, and history of the Chinese.

SINON, a wily Greek who beguiled the Trojans and persuaded them to admit the Wooden Horse into
the city, to its ruin.

SINOPE (8), a seaport of Turkey in Asia, situated on a narrow isthmus connecting with the mainland
the rocky headland of Cape Sinope which projects into the Black Sea, 350 m. NE. of Constantinople;
possesses two fine harbours, naval arsenal, Byzantine ruins, etc.; an ancient Greek town, the
birthplace of Diogenes, and capital of Mithridates; it was captured by the Turks in 1461, who
themselves in 1853 suffered a disastrous naval defeat in the Bay of Sinope at the hands of
the Russians.

SION, capital of the Swiss canton of Valais, on the Rhine, 42 m. E. of Lausanne; is a mediæval
town, with an old Gothic cathedral, and in the neighbourhood ruined castles.

SIOUT or ASIOOT (32), capital of Upper Egypt; commands a fine view near the Nile, 200 m. S.
of Cairo; has a few imposing mosques and a government palace; is a caravan station, and noted
for its red and black pottery; occupies the site of the ancient city of Lycopolis.

SIOUX or DAKOTA INDIANS, a North American Indian tribe, once spread over the territory lying
between Lake Winnipeg (N.) and the Arkansas River (S.), but now confined chiefly to South Dakota
and Nebraska. Failure on the part of the United States Government to observe certain treaty
conditions led to a great uprising of the Sioux in 1862, which was only put down at a great
cost of blood and treasure; conflicts also took place in 1876 and 1890, the Indians finding
in their chief, Sitting Bull, a determined and skilful leader.

SIRDAR, a name given to a native chief in India.

SIREN, an instrument for measuring the number of aërial vibrations per second, and thereby
the pitch of a given note.

SIRENS, in the Greek mythology a class of nymphs who were fabled to lure the passing sailor
to his ruin by the fascination of their music; Ulysses, when he passed the beach where they
were sitting, had his ears stuffed with wax and himself lashed to the mast till he was at a
safe distance from the influence of their charm. Orpheus, however, as he passed them in the
Argonautic expedition so surpassed their music by his melodious notes, that in very shame they
flung themselves into the sea and were changed into boulders.

SIRIUS or THE DOG-STAR, the brightest star in the heavens, one of the stars of the Southern
constellation of Canis Major; is calculated to have a bulk three times that of the sun, and
to give 70 times as much light. See DOG-DAYS.

SIRKAR, a name used in India to designate the government.

SIROCCO. See SIMOOM.

SISMONDI, JEAN CHARLES LÉONARD SIMONDE DE, celebrated Swiss historian, born at Geneva; son
of a Protestant clergyman of Italian descent; the family fortune was lost in the troublous
days of the French Revolution, and exile in England and Italy followed, but in 1800 Sismondi
returned to Geneva, and having received a municipal appointment gave himself to literary pursuits;
the works which have established his reputation are his great histories of "The Italian Republics
in the Middle Ages," "European Literature," and "A. History of the French"; wrote also on political
economy (1773-1842).

SISTINE CHAPEL, celebrated chapel of the Vatican at Rome, constructed by order of Pope Sixtus
IV., and decorated with frescoes by Michael Angelo, representing a succession of biblical subjects,
including among others the "Creation of the World," the "Creation of Man," the "Creation of
Woman," the "Temptation of Eve," the "Deluge," "Judith and Holophernes," "David and Goliath,"
"The Last Judgment," &c.

SISTOVA (12), a town of Bulgaria, on the Danube, 33 m. above Rustchuk; carries on trade in
wine, leather, and cereals; was captured by the Russians in 1877.

SISYPHUS, a mythical king of Corinth, who for some offence he gave the gods was carried off
to the nether world, and there doomed to roll a huge block up a hill, which no sooner reached
the top than it bounded back again, making his toil endless.

SITKA or NEW ARCHANGEL (1), capital of Alaska, on the W. coast of Baranof Island, overhung
by snowy mountains; has a good harbour; salmon fishing and curing the chief employment of most
of the inhabitants, mostly Indians.

SIVA or ÇIVA, the Destroyer in the Hindu trinity, in which Brahma is the Creator and Vishnu
the Preserver; Vishnu representing, as it were, death issuing in life, and Siva life issuing
in death, the transition point, and Brahma, who, by means of them, "kills that he may make
alive." He is worshipped as "Mahâdêva" or the great god, and his worshippers are called Saivas
or Çaivas, as distinct from those of Vishnu, which are called Vaishnavas. The LINGA (q. v.)
is his symbol, in emblem of the creation which follows destruction. See Psalm xc. 3.

SIVAJI, the founder of the Mahratta power in India, a bold warrior but an unlettered, of Rajput
descent, brought up at Poona; began his career at 19; on his succession assumed the title of
rajah in 1664, and was enthroned at Raigpur in 1674, and died sovereign of the whole Deccan
(1627-1680).

SIX ARTICLES. See BLOODY STATUTE.

SIXTUS, the name of five popes. S. I., St., Pope from 116 to 125; S. II., st., pope from 257
to 259; S. III., Pope from 432 to 440; S. IV., pope from 1471 to 1484; S. V., Pope from 1585
to 1590; of whom only two are of any note.

SIXTUS IV., born near Savona, the son of a fisherman; became general of the Franciscans; succeeded
Paul II. as Pope; was notorious for his nepotism; abetted Pazzi in his conspiracy against the
Medici at Florence, but was a good administrator, and a man of liberal views; b. 1414.

SIXTUS V., born near Monalto, of poor parents, was of the Franciscan order, and famed as a
preacher; was elected successor to Gregory XIII., during whose pontificate he affected infirmity,
to reveal himself a vigorous pontiff as soon as he was installed; set himself at once to stamp
out disorder, reform the administration, and replenish the exhausted treasury of the Church;
he allowed freedom of worship to the Jews, and yet was zealous to put down all heresy in the
Christian States of Europe; his services to Rome were not repaid with gratitude, for the citizens
destroyed his statue on his death; b. 1521.

SIZAR, a poor student at the universities of Cambridge and Oxford, so called from the size
or allowance of food they were recipients of out of the college buttery.

SKAGER-RACK, an arm of the North Sea stretching NE. between Norway and Denmark, and connecting
the Cattegat with the North Sea, 140 m. long and 70 broad, the deep water being on the Norwegian
coast.

SKALD, an old Scandinavian poet, a reciter or singer of poems in praise of the Norse warriors
and their deeds.

SKEAN-DHU, a small dirk which a Highlander wears in his stocking.

SKEAT, WALTER WILLIAM, English philologist, born in London; professor of Anglo-Saxon at Cambridge;
author of "Etymological Dictionary of the English Language," and a great authority on Early
English literature; the first Director of the Dialect Society, established in 1873; b. 1835.

SKEGGS, MISS, a character in the "Vicar of Wakefield," boastful for her aristocratic connections
and delicacy of taste, but vulgar at bottom.

SKELTON, JOHN, early English satirist, his chief poetic works being "Why come ye not to Courte,"
a satire against Wolsey; the "Book of Colin Clout," against the corruption of the Church; and
the "Book of Phyllyp Sparrow," the grief of a nun for the death of her sparrow; Erasmus calls
him "the glory and light of English letters" (1460?-1528).

SKENE, WILLIAM FORBES, Scottish historian, born in Kincardineshire, bred to law; devoted 40
years of his life to the study of the early, in particular the Celtic, periods of Scottish
history, and was from 1881 historiographer for Scotland (1809-1892).

SKERRYVORE, a rock with a lighthouse, one of an extensive reef 10 m. W. of Tiree, on the west
coast of Scotland; the light is a revolving one; is seen at the distance of over 18 nautical miles.

SKIDDAW, a mountain in Cumberland, 3054 ft. in height; is some 6 m. from Keswick, whence it
is of easy ascent.

SKIMPOLE, HAROLD, a plausible character in "Bleak House," who was in the habit of sponging
his friends.

SKINNER, JOHN, author of "Tullochgorum," born in Bervie, Aberdeenshire; originally a schoolmaster;
became an Episcopal clergyman (1721-1807).

SKIPTON (10), a market-town in Yorkshire, 26 m. NW. of Leeds; population largely engaged in
agriculture; has manufactures of cotton and woollen goods.

SKOBELEFF, MICHAEL, a Russian general, distinguished himself by his bravery in the Russian
service, particularly in the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-78; was a leader in the Panslavist movement;
died suddenly (1841-1882).

SKYE (16), next to Lewis the largest of the Hebrides Islands, belongs to the Inner group, and
is included in Inverness-shire, from the mainland of which it is separated by the narrow channel
Kyle Rhea; has a deeply indented coast-line, and a picturesquely diversified surface of mountain,
moor, and loch; the most notable features being the lofty Coolin Hills (highest point 3234
ft.), Loch Coruisk, Glen Sligachan, and the wild columnar height of basalt, the Quiraing; sheep
and Highland cattle are raised, and valuable ling, cod, and herring fisheries are carried on
in the coastal waters. Portree is the chief town and port, but is little better than a small
village.

SLADE, FELIX, antiquary and art-collector; left his art-collection to the British Museum, and
money to found Slade professorships of art at Oxford, Cambridge, and London Universities (1789-1868).

SLAVE COAST, name given to the Bight of Benin, in West Africa, from Lagos to the Volta River.

SLAVONIA, a kingdom that at one time included Croatia and that lies between the Drave and the
Military Frontier.

SLAVS, an important branch of the Aryan race-stock, comprising a number of European peoples
chiefly in East Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Servians, Bohemians, Poles, Croatians,
Moravians, Silesians, Pomeranians, &c. At the dawn of history we find them already settled
in Europe, chiefly in the neighbourhood of the Carpathians, whence they spread N., S., and
W., assuming their present position by the 7th century. They are estimated to number now 100,000,000,
and the various languages spoken by them are notable, compared with the Teutonic and Celtic
tongues, for their rich inflections.

SLAWKENBERGIUS, an author quoted and referred to in "Tristram Shandy," distinguished by the
length of his nose, and a great authority on the subject of noses.

SLEEPING BEAUTY, a princess who was by enchantment shut up to sleep 100 years in a castle surrounded
by a dense forest, and was delivered from her trance at the end of that term by a prince, to
admit whom the forest opened of itself.

SLEIPNIR, in the Scandinavian mythology the horse of Odin, which had eight legs, as representing
the wind with its eight principal "airts."

SLESWICK-HOLSTEIN (1,217), a province of North Prussia, stretching up to Denmark, between the
North Sea and the Baltic; various canals cross the country, bearing to the coast the export
produce--corn and cattle; the land is highly cultivated, and fishing is an important industry
on the Baltic coast; Flensburg, the chief seaport, and Sleswick (15), the capital, are both
situated on inlets of the Baltic; the latter lies 28 m. NW. of Kiel, consists of a single street
3½ m. long, and possesses a fine Gothic cathedral with a fine altar-piece, &c., the sections
representing the history of the Passion of Christ.

SLICK, SAM, a clockmaker and pedlar, a character illustrating Yankee peculiarities, and remarkable
for his wit, his knowledge of human nature, and his use of "soft sawder," a creation of JUDGE
HALIBURTON'S (q. v.).

SLIGO, 1, a maritime county of North-West Ireland (98), in the province of Connaught; fronts
the Atlantic on the N. between Mayo (W.) and Leitrim (E.), Roscommon forming the S. boundary;
the land, sloping N. to the coast from the Ox Mountains, is chiefly under grass for cattle
pasture, and divided into small holdings; Sligo Bay is a fine sheet of water, and in the S.
and E. are the picturesque Loughs Arrow and Gill; the manufacture of coarse woollens and linens
and fishing are the principal industries; the Moy, Owenmore, and Garvogue are navigable rivers.
2, At the mouth of the Garvogue stands Sligo (10), the county town, 137 m. NW. of Dublin; has
ruins of a 13th-century Dominican abbey, a Roman Catholic cathedral, and exports cattle, corn,
butter, &c.

SLOANE, SIR HANS, physician and naturalist, born in co. Down, Ireland, of Scotch descent; settled
as a physician in London; attained the highest distinction as a professional man; his museum,
which was a large one, of natural objects, books, and MSS. became by purchase the property
of the nation, and formed the nucleus of the British Museum (1660-1753).

SLÖJD (sleight), a system of manual training adopted to develop technical skill originally
in the schools of Sweden and Finland; is education of the eye as well as the hand.

SLOP, DOCTOR, a choleric physician in "Tristram Shandy."

SLOUGH OF DESPOND, a deep bog in the "Pilgrim's Progress," into which Christian sinks under
the weight of his sins and his sense of their guilt.

SLOVAKS, a Slavonic peasant people numbering some 2,000,000, subject to the crown of Hungary
since the 11th century, and occupying the highlands of North-West Hungary; speak a dialect
of Czech.

SLOVENIANS, a Slavonic people akin to the Servians and Croatians in Austro-Hungary, dwelling
chiefly in Styria, Carinthia, and Carniola.

SLY, CHRISTOPHER, a drunken sot of a tinker in the "Induction" to "Taming of the Shrew."

SMART, CHRISTOPHER, English poet, born in Kent; was a Fellow of Cambridge and a friend of Johnson's;
author of the "Song to David," now famous, much overrated, think some; he was subject to insanity,
and it was written during lucid intervals; he was the author of a prose translation of Horace
(1722-1771).

SMEATON, JOHN, civil engineer, born near Leeds; began life as a mathematical instrument-maker;
made improvements in mill-work, and gained the Copley Medal in 1758; visited the principal
engineering works in Holland and Belgium; was entrusted with the rebuilding of EDDYSTONE LIGHTHOUSE
(q. v.) after it was in 1755 burnt down, which he finished in 1759; did other engineering work
in the construction of canals, harbours, and mills, rising to the summit of his profession
(1724-1792).

SMECTYMNUUS, a pamphlet written in 1641, the title of which is made up of the initial letters
of the names of the authors.

SMELFUNGUS, a name given by Sterne to Smollett as author of volume of "Travels through France
and Italy," for the snarling abuse he heaps on the institutions and customs of the countries
he visited; a name Carlyle assumes when he has any seriously severe criticisms to offer on
things particularly that have gone or are going to the bad.

SMILES, SAMUEL, author of "Self-Help," born in Haddington; was bred to medicine, and professed
it for a time, but abandoned it for literary and other work; wrote the "Life of George Stephenson"
in 1857, followed by "Self-Help" two years after; b. 1812.

SMITH, ADAM, political economist, born in Kirkcaldy, Fife; studied at Glasgow and Oxford, went
to Edinburgh and became acquainted with David Hume and his confrères; was appointed to the
chair of Logic in Glasgow in 1751, and the year after of Moral Philosophy; produced in 1759
his "Theory of Moral Sentiments," visited Paris with the young Duke of Buccleuch, got acquainted
with Quesnay, D'Alembert, and Necker, and returning in 1766, settled in his native place under
a pension from the Duke of Buccleuch, where in 1776 he produced his "Inquiry into the Nature
and Causes of the Wealth of Nations," a work to which he devoted 10 years of his life, and
which has had a world-wide influence, and that has rendered his name world-famous; in 1778
he settled in Edinburgh as Commissioner of Customs for Scotland, and in 1787 was elected Lord
Rector of Glasgow University (1723-1790).

SMITH, ALEXANDER, poet, born in Kilmarnock; began life as a pattern-designer, contributed to
the Glasgow Citizen, wrote a volume of poems, "A Life Drama," and produced other works in a
style characterised as "spasmodic," and which, according to Tennyson, "showed fancy, but not
imagination" (1880-1807).

SMITH, GEORGE, Assyriologist, born at London; trained as a bank-note engraver, but attracted
the attention of Sir Henry Rawlinson by his interest in cuneiform inscriptions, and in 1867
received an appointment in the British Museum; acquired great skill as an interpreter of Assyrian
inscriptions, published "Annals of Assurbanipal," and in 1872 discovered a tablet with the
"Chaldean Account of the Deluge"; carried through important expeditions (1871-3-6) in search
of antiquities in Nineveh and other parts of Assyria, accounts of which he published; wrote
also histories of Babylonia, Assyria, Sennacherib, &c. (1840-1876).

SMITH, GOLDWIN, English man of letters, born in Berks; was at one time intimately associated
with Oxford University, went to America and became professor of English History in Cornell
University, and since 1871 has settled in Canada, and believes that Canada will be annexed
to the United States; has written a number of books and pamphlets, one on the "Relations between
England and America" and another on "The Political Destiny of Canada"; he is an ultra-Liberal;
b. 1823.

SMITH, JAMES AND HORACE, authors of the famous parodies "The Rejected Addresses," born at London:
James, in business as a solicitor, and Horace, a wealthy stockbroker; both were occasional
contributors to the periodical press before the public offer of a prize for the best poetical
address to be spoken at the re-opening of Drury Lane Theatre prompted them to issue a series
of "Rejected Addresses," parodying the popular writers of the day--Wordsworth, Southey, Coleridge,
Scott, Byron, &c.; intensely clever, these parodies have never been surpassed in their kind;
Horace was also a busy writer of novels now forgotten, and also published two vols. of poetry;
James subsequently wrote a number of Charles Mathews' "Entertainments" (James, 1775-1839; Horace,
1779-1849).

SMITH, JOHN, Cambridge Platonist, born in Northamptonshire; left "Select Discourses," giving
signs both of spiritual insight and vigour of thinking (1616-1652).

SMITH, JOHN, sailor, born in Lincolnshire; had a life of adventure and peril, and became leader
of the English colonists of Virginia; established friendly relations with the Indians, returned
to this country twice over, and introduced POCAHONTAS (q. v.) to the Queen; died at Gravesend
(1580-1631).

SMITH, SYDNEY, political writer and wit, born at Woodford, Essex, of partly English and partly
Huguenot blood; educated at Westminster and Oxford, bred for the Church; after a brief curacy
in Wiltshire settled in Edinburgh from 1798 to 1803, where, while officiating as a clergyman,
he became one of the famous editors of the Edinburgh Review, and a contributor; settled for
a time afterwards in London, where he delivered a series of admirable lectures on ethics, till
he was appointed to a small living in Yorkshire, and afterwards to a richer living in Somerset,
and finally a canonry in St. Paul's; his writings deal with abuses of the period, and are,
except his lectures perhaps, all out of date now (1771-1845).

SMITH, SIR WILLIAM, classical and biblical scholar, born in London; distinguished himself at
the university there and took a course of law at Gray's Inn, but followed his bent for scholarship,
and in 1840-42 issued his great "Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities," following it up
with the "Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology" and the "Dictionary of Greek
and Roman Geography"; did eminent service to the cause of education by a series of popular
editions of Greek and Latin texts, school grammars, dictionaries, &c.; not less valuable are
his "Dictionary of the Bible," &c.; was editor of the Quarterly Review from 1867, and in 1892
received a knighthood (1813-1893).

SMITH, WILLIAM ROBERTSON, biblical scholar and critic, born at Keig, Aberdeenshire; educated
for the Scottish Free Church, became professor of Hebrew in the connection at Aberdeen; was
prosecuted for heresy in the matter of the origin of the books of the Old Testament, and finally
removed from the chair; became joint-editor of the "Encyclopædia Britannica," and finally professor
of Arabic at Cambridge; he was a man of versatile ability, extensive scholarship, keen critical
acumen, and he contributed not a little to vindicate the claims of the scholar in regard to
the Bible (1846-1894).

SMITH, SIR WILLIAM SIDNEY, British admiral, born at Westminster; entered the navy at 12, became
a captain after many gallant services at 18, was naval adviser to the king of Sweden and knighted,
joined Lord Hood off Toulon and helped to burn the French fleet; was taken prisoner by the
French in 1796, and after two years made his escape; forced Napoleon to raise the siege of
Acre, and was wounded at Aboukir; was rewarded with a pension of £1000, and raised in the end
to the rank of admiral (1764-1840).

SMITHFIELD or SMOOTHFIELD, an open space of ground in London, N. of Newgate, long famous for
its live-stock markets; in olden times lay outside the city walls, and was used as a place
of recreation and of executions; the scene of William Wallace's execution and the death of
Wat Tyler; gradually surrounded by the encroaching city, the cattle-market became a nuisance,
and was abolished in 1855; is partly laid out as a garden.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, a celebrated American institution "for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men," in Washington; founded and endowed by James Macie Smithson, a natural
son of the Duke of Northumberland, a zealous chemist and mineralogist, after having had a paper
rejected by the Royal Society, of which he was a Fellow. The building is one of the finest
in the capital; is under government control, and the President of the United States is ex officio
the head of the institution; encourages scientific research, administers various funds, and
directs expeditions for scientific purposes.

SMOKY CITY, Pittsburg, in Pennsylvania, from the effect produced by the bituminous coal used
in the manufactories.

SMOLENSK (34), an ancient town of Russia, and capital of a government (1,412) of the same name,
on the Dnieper, 244 m. SW. of Moscow; is surrounded by walls; has a fine cathedral, and is
strongly fortified; carries on a good grain trade; here in 1812 Napoleon defeated the Russians
under Barclay de Tolly and Bagration on his march to Moscow in August 1812.

SMOLLETT, TOBIAS GEORGE, novelist, born at Dalquhurn, Dumbartonshire, of good family; bred
to medicine, but drifted to literature, in prosecution of which he set out to London at the
age of 18; his first effort was a failure; he took an appointment as a surgeon's mate on board
a war-ship in 1746, which landed him for a time in the West Indies; on his return to England
in 1748 achieved his first success in "Roderick Random," which was followed by "Peregrine Pickle"
in 1751, "Count Fathom" in 1755, and "Humphrey Clinker" in 1771, added to which he wrote a
"History of England," and a political lampoon, "The Adventures of an Atom"; his novels have
no plot, but "in inventive tale-telling and in cynical characterisation he is not easily equalled"
(1721-1771).

SMRITI, in the Hindu religion the name given to traditional usage, as opposed to Sruti, or
revelation, and from which proceeded, at a later date, the body of laws, such as that of Manu,
in which the morality prescribed is, "sound, solid, and practical."

SMYRNA (210), a town of great antiquity, since ancient times the chief port of Asia Minor;
is situated amid surrounding hills at the head of the Gulf of Smyrna, an arm of the Ægean Sea;
has no imposing structures, and is, especially in the Turkish quarter, ill-drained and crowded;
is the seat of the Turkish Governor-General of the province, of archbishops, Roman Catholic,
Greek, and Armenian; manufactures embrace carpets, pottery, cottons and woollens; a splendid
harbour favours a large import and export trade; for long a possession of Greece and then of
Rome, it finally fell into the hands of the Turks in 1424.

SMYRNA, GULF OF, an inlet of the Ægean Sea, 40 m. in length by 20 m. in breadth, with an excellent
anchorage.

SNAKE RIVER, chief tributary of the Columbia; rises in Wyoming amid the Rockies; flows S. and
NW. through Idaho, forming the Shoshone Falls, rivalling Niagara, which they exceed in height;
through Southern Washington it flows W. under the name of the Lewis River or Fork, and discharges
into the Columbia after a course of 1050 m.

SNAKE-STONES, stones popularly believed to cure the bites of snakes, probably due to a porosity
in their substance drawing off the poison.

SNIDER, JACOB, American mechanical genius; invented a method of converting muzzle-loading rifles
into breech-loading; died unrewarded in 1866.

SNODGRASS, AUGUSTUS, a member of the Pickwick Club in the "Pickwick Papers."

SNORRI STURLASON, Icelandic historian and poet; published the collection of sagas entitled
"Heimskringla," among which were many songs of his own composition; was a man of position and
influence in Iceland, but having provoked the ill-will of Haco was at his instigation assassinated
in 1241. See EDDA.

SNOWDON, a mountain range in Carnarvon, North Wales, extending from the coast to near Conway;
it has five distinct summits, of which Moel-y-Wyddfa (the conspicuous peak) is the highest,
being 3560 ft.; the easiest ascent is from Llanberis on the N., and is the route usually taken
by tourists, for whose behoof there is a house on the summit.

SOANE, SIR JOHN, English architect, who left his house in Lincoln's Inn Fields with art collection
to the nation at his death in 1837.

SOBIESKI, surname of the great patriot king of Poland, John III., in the 17th century; born
at Olesko, in Galicia; was elected king of Poland in 1674, having, by repeated victories over
the Turks and Russians, shown himself the greatest soldier of his country; proved a wise and
brave ruler, a true leader of his people, and with unbroken success defied the utmost efforts
of the infidel Turks (1624-1696).

SOBRAON (4), a town in the Punjab, India, on the Sutlej, in the vicinity of which Sir Henry
Gough won the decisive victory over the Sikhs, 10th February 1846.

SOCAGE, name given to a feudal tenure by a certain and determinate service other than knight
service.

SOCIAL WAR, name given to an Insurrection of the allied States in Italy against the domination
of Rome, and which lasted from 90 to 88 B.C., in consequence of their exclusion from the rights
of citizenship and the privileges attached; they formed a league to assert their rights, which
ended in defeat.

SOCIALISM, a social system which, in opposition to the competitive system that prevails at
present, seeks to reorganise society on the basis, in the main, of a certain secularism in
religion, of community of interest, and co-operation in labour for the common good, agreeably
to the democratic spirit of the time and the changes required by the rise of individualism
and the decay of feudalism.

SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE, a society founded in 1698 which during the last
200 years has originated and supported a number of agencies, both in this country and abroad,
for propagating Christian knowledge; distributed into a number of separate departments.

SOCIETY ISLANDS (24), an archipelago in the South Pacific, consisting of 13 principal islands
and numerous islets, the chief being Tahiti; they are mountainous, and engirdled by belts of
flat land as well as coral reefs; have a fertile soil and luxuriant vegetation, while the climate
is healthy though enervating; the inhabitants are intelligent but indolent, and the land is
worked by immigrant races.

SOCIETY OF JESUS, the Jesuit order founded by IGNATIUS LOYOLA (q. v.).

SOCINIANS, a sect of the Unitarian body who, in the 16th century, take their name from FAUSTUS
SOCINUS (q. v.), who, besides denying the doctrine of the Trinity, deny the divinity of Christ
and the divine inspiration of Scripture; they arose into importance originally in Poland, and
in the 17th century spread by degrees in Prussia, the Netherlands, and England.

SOCINUS, FAUSTUS, a theologian, born in Italy; had for his views to exile himself for years,
and was much persecuted for his opinions; in Cracow, where he dwelt for a time, he was by a
mob dragged from a sick-bed half-naked along the street, had his house robbed and his papers
burned (1530-1601).

SOCIOLOGY, the science which treats of the nature and the developments of society and of social
institutions; a science to which Herbert Spencer, in succession to Comte, has contributed more
than any other scientist, deducing, as he does, a series of generalisations by comparison of
individual organisms with social.

SOCOTRA (10), an island off the E. coast of Africa, 148 m. NE. of Cape Guardafui, over 70 m.
long and 20 m. broad; it is mountainous, surrounded by a margin of plain land from 2 to 4 m.
broad; is comparatively barren; is inhabited by Mohammedans, who rear sheep, goats, and cattle;
exports aloes, hides, and pearls; the sultan is a feudatory of Britain.

SOCRATES, Athenian philosopher, pronounced by the Delphic oracle the wisest of men; was the
son of Sophroniscus, a statuary, and Phænarete, a midwife; was brought up to his father's profession,
in which it would seem he gave promise of success; he lived all his days in Athens, and gathered
about him as his pupils all the ingenuous youth of the city; he wrote no book, propounded no
system, and founded no school, but was ever abroad in the thoroughfares in all weather talking
to whoso would listen, and instilling into all and sundry a love of justice and truth; of quacks
and pretenders he was the sworn foe, and he cared not what enmity he provoked if he could persuade
one and another to think and do what was right; "he was so pious," says Xenophon in his "Memorabilia,"
"that he did nothing without the sanction of the gods; so just, that he never wronged any one,
even in the least degree; so much master of himself, that he never preferred the agreeable
to the good; so wise, that in deciding on the better and the worse he never faltered; in short,
he was the best and happiest man that could possibly exist;" he failed not to incur enmity,
and his enemies persecuted him to death; he was charged with not believing in the State religion,
with introducing new gods, and corrupting the youth, convicted by a majority of his judges
and condemned to die; thirty days elapsed between the passing of the sentence and its execution,
during which period he held converse with his friends and talked of the immortality of the
soul; to an offer of escape he turned a deaf ear, drank the hemlock potion prepared for him
with perfect composure, and died; "the difference between Socrates and Jesus Christ," notes
Carlyle in his "Journal," "the great Conscious, the immeasurably great Unconscious; the one
cunningly manufactured, the other created, living and life-giving; the epitome this of a grand
and fundamental diversity among men; but did any truly great man ever," he asks, "go through
the world without offence, all rounded in, so that the current moral systems could find no
fault in him? most likely never" (469-399 B.C.).

SOCRATES, APOLOGY OF, a work of Plato's, being a speech put into the mouth of Socrates before
the AREOPAGUS (q. v.) in his defence in answer to the charge brought against him, and which
Plato wrote after his death.

SOCRATES, Church historian of the 4th century, born at Byzantium; bred to the bar; his "Ecclesiastical
History" embraces a period from 306 to 439, a work of no great merit.

SODOM AND GOMORRAH, two ancient cities which, for their wickedness were, as the Bible relates,
consumed with fire from heaven; they are supposed to have stood near the S. border of the Dead
Sea, though they were not, as was at one time supposed, submerged in the waters of it.

SOFALA, a Portuguese maritime district of South-East Africa, stretching from the Zambesi S.
to Delagoa Bay, and forming the S. portion of the colony of Mozambique. Sofala (1), chief port
on a bay of the same name, is a place of little importance.

SOFIA (50), capital since 1878 of Bulgaria; is a fortified town, situated in the broad valley
of the Isker, a tributary of the Danube, 75 m. NW. of Philippopolis; has recently largely undergone
reconstruction, and with hotels, banks, a government palace, &c., presents a fine modern appearance;
has a national university; is an important trade emporium, and is on the Constantinople and
Belgrade railway; manufactures cloth, silks, leather, &c., and has long been famed for its
hot mineral springs.

SOFRONIA, a Christian maiden of Jerusalem, who, to avert a general massacre of the Christians
by the Mohammedan king, accused herself of the crime for which they were all to suffer, and
whose story with the issue is touchingly related in Tasso's "Jerusalem Delivered."

SOISSONS (11), a fortified town of North France, dep. Aisne, on the Aisne, 65 m. NE. of Paris;
has a 12th-century cathedral and ruins of a famous abbey; chief industries are brewing and
the manufacture of various textiles; was a place of much importance in early times, and figures
in the wars of Clovis and Pepin, frequently in the Hundred Years' War, and in 1870 was captured
by the Germans; is considered the key to Paris from the Netherlands side.

SOKOTO (11,000), a native kingdom of West Central Africa, within territories administered now
by the British Government; lies between the Soudan (N.) and the river Benuë (S.), the main
affluent of the Niger; the dominant people are the Fulahs, exercising sway over various native
tribes; is a country capable of much agricultural development, and has large deposits of iron.
Wurno (15), the capital, is on the Gandi, 18 m. E. of the town of Sokoto.

SOLANO, name given to a hot oppressive wind in the Mediterranean.

SOLAR CYCLE, a period of 28 years, within which the first day of the year passes successively
through the same sequence of week-days.

SOLAR MYTH, a myth, the subject of which is a deified personification of the sun or phenomena
connected with it.

SOLAR YEAR, the period of 365 days 5 hours 48 minutes and 52 seconds which the earth takes
to complete a revolution of the sun.

SOLDAN, a corruption of Sultan, and denoting in mediæval romance the Saracen king.

SOLECISM, the name given to a violation of the syntax or idiom of a language, as well as to
an incarnate absurdity of any kind, whether in mind or morals.

SOLEMN LEAGUE AND COVENANT. See COVENANT.

SOLENT, the western portion, SPITHEAD (q. v.) being the eastern, of the strait which separates
the Isle of Wight from the mainland of Hants, 17 m. long, with an average breadth of 3 m.,
but at its W. entrance, opposite Hurst Castle, contracts to ¾ m.

SOLEURE (86), a canton of North-West Switzerland, between Bern (W. and S.) and Aargau (E);
is hilly, but fertile and well cultivated, especially in the valley of the Aar; inhabitants
are mainly Catholics and German-speaking. Soleure, the capital (8), situated on the Aar, 18
m. NE. of Berne, has a fine cathedral, and manufactures of cottons, clocks, and cement.

SOLFATA`RA, a fissure or crevice in the earth which emits sulphurous and other vapours, and
in regions where volcanoes have ceased to be active; they are met with in South Italy, the
Antilles, Mexico, and Java.

SOLFERINO, a village in North Italy, 20 m. NW. of Mantua, where the Austrians were defeated
by the French and Piedmontese in 1859.

SOLIDARITY, community of interest or responsibility; also that community of being which binds
humanity into one whole, so that each affects and is affected by all.

SOLIDUS, a Roman gold coin adopted by the Franks, and first coined by them in gold, but subsequently
in silver, when it was equivalent to one-twentieth of the libra, or pound; as the "sol" or
"sou" it depreciated greatly in value; was minted in copper, and on the introduction of the
decimal system its place was taken by a five-centime piece; the "soldo" in Italy, and the Solidus
L.S.D. owe their origin to this coin.

SOLINGEN (37), a manufacturing town of Prussia, situated near the Wupper, 13 m. E. of Düsseldorf;
has long been famed for its steel and iron works and cutlery manufactures.

SOLOMON, king of Israel from 1015 to 977 B.C., second son of David and Bathsheba, and David's
successor; in high repute far and wide for his love of wisdom and the glory of his reign; he
had a truly Oriental passion for magnificence, and the buildings he erected in Jerusalem, including
the Temple and a palace on Mount Zion, he raised regardless of an expense which the nation
resented after he was gone; the burden of which it would seem had fallen upon them, for when
his successor, following in his courses, ascended the throne, ten of the tribes revolted, to
the final rupture of the community, and the fall of first the one section and then the other
under alien sway.

SOLOMON OF ENGLAND, an appellation conferred on Henry VII., and also satirically on James I.,
characterised by Sully as "the wisest fool in Christendom."

SOLOMON OF FRANCE, a title bestowed on Louis IX.

SOLOMON ISLANDS (167), a large group of islands in the West Pacific, 500 m. E. of New Guinea,
the N. islands of which belong to Germany, and the S. to Britain; are volcanic in origin, mountainous,
wooded, and thickly populated by Melanesian savages, who are totem worshippers, and still practise
cannibalism.

SOLOMON'S RING, a ring worn by Solomon, in which was a stone from which, according to the Rabbins,
he learned whatever he wished to know.

SOLON, the great Athenian law-giver, and one of the seven sages of GREECE (q. v.), born in
Athens, was of royal degree, and kinsman of Pisistratus; began life as a trader, and in that
capacity acquired a large experience of the world, and he soon turned his attention to political
affairs, and showed such wisdom in the direction of them that he was elected archon in 594
B.C., and in that office was invested with full power to ordain whatever he might deem of advantage
for the benefit of the State; he accordingly set about the framing of a constitution in which
property, not birth, was made the basis of the organisation, and the title to honour and office
in the community; he divided the citizens into four classes, gave additional power to the assemblies
of the people, and made the archons and official dignitaries responsible to them in the administration
of affairs; when he had finished his work, he ordered the laws he had framed to be engraved
on tablets and set up in a public place, then took oath of the people to observe them for ten
years, after which he left the country and set out on travel; at the end of the ten years he
returned, to find things lapsing into the old disorder, and Pisistratus ready to seize the
sovereignty of the State, whereupon he withdrew into private life, and died the subject of
a tyrant at the age of eighty (640-559 B.C.).

SOLSTICE, summer and winter, the two recurring periods of the year at which the sun is farthest
distant N. or S. from the equator, which mark midsummer and midwinter, the times being the
21st of June and 22nd of December; also applied to the two points in the ECLIPTIC (q. v.),
which the sun appears to reach on these two dates.

SOLWAY FIRTH, an arm of the Irish Sea, and in its upper part forming the estuary of the river
Esk, separating Cumberland from the S. of Scotland (Kirkcudbright and Dumfries); stretches
inland from Balcarry Point 36 m., and from 2 to 20 m. broad; receives the Annan, Dee, Nith,
Eden, and Derwent, and has valuable salmon-fishings; the spring tides ebb and flow with remarkable
rapidity, the "bore" often reaching a speed of from 8 to 10 m. an hour; is spanned near Annan
by a railway viaduct 1960 yards long.

SOLWAY MOSS, a moss, now drained and cultivated, in Cumberland, on the Scottish border, that
was the scene of the defeat of the Scotch army in 1542, a disaster which broke the heart of
James V.

SOLYMAN II., surnamed THE MAGNIFICENT, the tenth and greatest of the Ottoman sultans, the son
and successor of Selim I.; succeeded his father at 24; set himself at once to reform abuses
and place the internal administration on a strict basis, and after making peace with Persia
and allaying tumult in Syria, turned his arms westwards, captured Belgrade, and wrested the
island of Rhodes from the Knights of St. John; he twice over led his army into Hungary; in
connection with the latter invasion laid siege to Vienna, from which he was obliged to retire
after the loss of 40,000 men, after which he turned his arms to the east, adding to his territory,
and finally to the North of Africa, to the conquest of the greater part of it; he died at Szigeth
while opening a new campaign against Hungary; d. 1566.

SOMA, the intoxicating juice of a plant offered in libation to a Hindu god, especially to INDRA
(q. v.), to strengthen him in his war with the demons, and identified with the invigorating
and inspiring principle in nature which manifests itself at once in the valour of the soldier
and the inspiration of the poet; as a god Soma is the counterpart of AGNI (q. v.).

SOMAI, BRAHMO. See BRAHMO-SOMAJ.

SOMALILAND, a broad plateau of East Africa, bounded by the Gulf of Aden on the N. and the Indian
Ocean on the SE.; inhabited by the Somalis, a pastoral people, who rear camels, sheep, and
oxen, and are of the Mohammedan faith; are under chiefs, and jealous of strangers.

SOMERSET HOUSE, a handsome Government building in London, with a double frontage on the Strand
and the Victoria Embankment, built on the site of the palace of the Protector Somerset, and
opened in 1786; accommodates various civil departments of the Government--the Inland Revenue,
Audit and Exchequer, Wills and Probate, Registry-General. The east wing is occupied by King's
College and School.

SOMERSETSHIRE (484), a maritime county of England, fronting the Bristol Channel, between Devon
(N.) and Gloucester (SW.), with Wilts and Dorset on the E. and S.; diversified by the Mendips
(NE.), Quantock Hills, Exmoor (SW.), and other smaller elevations; is yet in the main occupied
by wide level plains largely given over to pastoral and dairy farming; watered by the Bristol
Avon, the Parret, and other lesser streams; its orchards rank next to those of Devon; is prolific
in Roman, Saxon, and ancient British remains; Taunton is the county town, but Bath the largest.

SOMERVILLE, MRS. MARY, a lady skilled in mathematics and physics, born at Jedburgh; was brought
up at Burntisland and Edinburgh; contributed to the Transactions of the Royal Society; wrote
a book entitled the "Mechanism of the Heavens" on the suggestion of Lord Brougham, as a popularisation
of Laplace's "Mechanique Céleste," which was followed by her "Connection of the Physical Sciences,"
"Physical Geography," and "Molecular and Microscopic Science," the last published in her ninetieth
year; died at Naples (1770-1872).

SOMME, 1, a river of North France; rises in the department of Aisne, near St. Quentin, and
flows 150 m. SW. and NW. to the English Channel; navigable as far as Abbeville. 2, A department
(546) of North France, fronting the English Channel, between Seine-Inférieure (S.) and Pas-de-Calais
(N.); one of the most prosperous agricultural and manufacturing districts of France; AMIENS
(q. v.) is the chief town.

SOMNATH (7), an ancient maritime town of Oujarat, India, in the SW. of the peninsula of Kathiawar;
has interesting memorials of Krishna, who, it is alleged, is hurled in the vicinity; close
by is a famous ruined Hindu temple, despoiled in the 11th century of its treasures, sacred
idol, and gates; in 1842 Lord Ellenborough brought hack from Afghanistan gates which he thought
to be the famous "Gates of Somnath," but doubt being cast on their authenticity, they were
eventually placed in the arsenal of Agra.

SOMNATH, IDOL OF, "a mere mass of coarse crockery," says Jepherson Brick, an imaginary friend
of Carlyle's, "not worth five shillings, sat like a great staring god, with two diamonds for
eyes, which one day a commander of the Faithful took the liberty to smite once as he rode up
with grim battle-axe and heart full of Moslem fire, and which thereupon shivered into a heap
of ugly potsherds, yielding from its belly half a waggon-load of gold coins; the gold coins,
diamond eyes, and other valuables were carefully picked up by the Faithful; confused jingle
of potsherds was left lying; and the idol of Somnath, once showing what it was, had suddenly
come to a conclusion."

SOMNUS, the god of Sleep, a brother of Death, and a son of Night, represented, he and Death,
as two youths sleeping or holding inverted torches in their hands; near the dwelling of Somnus
flowed the river of Lethe, which crept along over pebbles, and invited to sleep; he was attended
by Morpheus, who inspired pleasing dreams.

SONATA, a musical composition chiefly designed for solo instruments, especially the pianoforte,
and consisting generally of three or four contrasted movements--the allegro, adagio, rondo,
minuetto or scherzo; reaches its noblest expression in the sonatas of Beethoven.

SONDERBUND, the name given to the union of the Catholic cantons (Lucerne, Zug, Freiburg, and
Valais) of Switzerland, which led to the civil disturbances of 1845-1846, and the war of 1847.

SONNET, a form of poetical composition invented in the 13th century, consisting of 14 decasyllabic
or hendecasyllabic iambic lines, rhymed according to two well-established schemes which bear
the names of their two most famous exponents, Shakespeare and Petrarch. The Shakespearian sonnet
consists of three four-lined stanzas of alternate rhymes clinched by a concluding couplet;
the Petrarchan of two parts, an octave, the first eight lines rhymed abbaabba, and a sestet,
the concluding six lines arranged variously on a three-rhyme scheme.

SONS OF THE PROPHETS. See NEBIIM.

SONTAG, HENRIETTA, a German singer, born at Coblenz; made her début at 15; had a brilliant
career twice over (1806-1854).

SOOCHOO (500), a large city in China, 50 m. NW. of Shanghai; is intersected by canals, walled
all round, and manufactures fine silk.

SOPHERIM, THE, the name by which the SCRIBES (q. v.) are designated in Jewish literature.

SOPHIA, ELECTRESS OF HANOVER, youngest daughter of ELIZABETH, QUEEN OF BOHEMIA (q. v.), and
mother of George I. (1630-1714).

SOPHIA, ST., the personification of the Divine wisdom, to whom, as to a saint, many churches
have been dedicated, especially the Church of Constantinople.

SOPHIE CHARLOTTE, wife of Friedrich I. of Prussia, born in Hanover, daughter of Electress Sophia;
famous in her day both as a lady and a queen; was, with her mother, of a philosophic turn;
"persuaded," says Carlyle, "that there was some nobleness for man beyond what the tailor imparts
to him, and even very eager to discover it had she known how"; she had the philosopher Leibnitz
often with her, "eagerly desirous to draw water from that deep well--a wet rope with cobwebs
sticking to it often all she got--endless rope, and the bucket never coming to view" (1668-1705).

SOPHISTS, a sect of thinkers that arose in Greece, and whose radical principle it was that
we have only a subjective knowledge of things, and that we have no knowledge at all of objective
reality, that things are as they seem to us, and that we have no knowledge of what they are
in themselves; "on this field," says SCHWEGLER, "they disported, enjoying with boyish exuberance
the exercise of the power of subjectivity, and destroying, by means of a subjective dialectic,
all that had been ever objectively established," such as "the laws of the State, inherited
custom, religious tradition, and popular belief.... They form, in short, the German AUFKLÄRUNG
(q. v.), the Greek Illumination (q. v.). They acknowledged only private judgment and ignored
the existence of a judgment that is not private, and has absolute rights irrespective of the
sentiments of the individual."

SOPHOCLES, Athenian tragic poet, born at Colonos, a suburb of Athens; when but 16, such was
his musical talent, he was selected to lead the choir that sang the song of triumph over the
victory of Salamis; his first appearance as a dramatist was in 488 B.C., when he had Æschylus
as his rival and won the prize, though he was seven years afterwards defeated by Euripides,
but retrieved the defeat the year following by the production of his "Antigone." That same
year one of the 10 strategi (or generals) and he accompanied Pericles in his war against the
aristocrats of Samos. He wrote a number of dramas, over 100 it is alleged, but only 7 survive,
and these in probable order are "Ajax," "Antigone," "Electra," "Oedipus Tyrannus," "Trachineæ,"
"Oedipus Coloneus," and "Philoctetes." Thus are all his subjects drawn from Greek legend, and
they are all alike remarkable for the intense humanity and sublime passion that inspires them
and the humane and the high and holy resolves they stir up.

SORATA, a volcanic peak in the Bolivian Andes, 21,470 ft. in height.

SORBONNE, a celebrated college of Paris, taking its name from its founder, Robert of Sorbon,
chaplain to Saint Louis in the 13th century; was exclusively devoted to theology, and through
the rigour of its discipline and learning of its professors soon exercised a predominant influence
on the theological thought of Europe, which it maintained until the new learning of the Renaissance
(16th century), together with its own dogmatic conservatism, left it hopelessly stuck in the
"Sorbonnian bog" of derelict scholastic theology; became an object of satiric attacks by Boileau,
Voltaire, and others, and was suppressed in 1789 at the outburst of the Revolution; was revived
by Napoleon in 1808; is at present the seat of the Académie Universitaire de Paris, with faculties
of theology, science, and literature.

SORDELLO, a Provençal poet whom Dante and Virgil met in Purgatory sitting solitary and with
a noble haughty mien, but who sprang up at sight of Virgil and embraced him and accompanied
him a part of his way; Browning used his name, as the title of a poem showing the conflict
a minister experiences in perfecting his craft.

SOREL, AGNES, the mistress of Charles VII. of France, who had a great influence over him; had
been maid of honour to the queen (1409-1450).

SORROW, SANCTUARY OF, Goethe's name for the fold of Christ, wherein, according to His promise
(Matt. v. 4) the "mourners" who might gather together there would find relief and be comforted,
the path of sorrow leading up to the "porch" of the sanctuary.

SORROW, WORSHIP OF, Goethe's name for the Christian religion, "our highest religion, for the
Son of Man," Carlyle adds, interpreting this, "there is no noble crown, well worn or even ill
worn, but is a crown of thorns."

SORROWS OF THE VIRGIN. See SEVEN DOLOURS.

SORROWS OF WERTHER, a work by Goethe and one of his earliest, the production of which constituted
a new era in the life of the poet, and marks a new era in the literature of Europe, "as giving
expression to a class of feelings deeply important to modern minds, but for which our older
poetry offered no exponent, and perhaps could offer none, because they are feelings that arise
from Passion incapable of being converted into Action, and belong to an ignorant, uncultivated,
and unbelieving age such as ours," feelings that Byronically, "in dark wayward" mood reflect
a mere sense of the miseries of human life.

SORTES VIRGILIANÆ, consulting the pages of Virgil to ascertain one's fortune, by opening the
book at random, putting the finger on a passage and taking that for the oracle of fate one
is in quest of.

SOSTRATUS, architect of the Pharos of Alexandria, lived in the 3rd century B.C., and was patronised
by Ptolemy Philadelphus.

SOTHERN, EDWARD ASKEW, comedian, born in Liverpool; at 23 went on the stage, and for some time
was a member of the stock company of the Theatre Royal, Birmingham; afterwards acted in America,
and made his mark in Tom Taylor's "Our American Cousin" (1858) in the small part of Lord Dundreary,
which he gradually developed into an elaborate and phenomenally successful caricature of an
English peer, and in which he appeared thousands of times in America and England; scored a
great success also as David Garrick in Robertson's well-known comedy (1826-1881).

SOUBISE, DUC DE, French soldier; served first under Prince Maurice of Orange, and commanded
the Huguenots against Louis XIII., but after some successes was compelled to take refuge in
England; distinguished himself at the defence of Rochelle, but was defeated again and had to
betake himself to England as before, where he died (1589-1641).

SOUBISE, PRINCE DE, marshal of France; was aide-de-camp to Louis XV. in Flanders, was favoured
by Pompadour, held an important command in the Seven Years' War, but was defeated by Frederick
the Great at Rossbach (1713-1787).

SOUDAN or "THE LAND OF THE BLACKS," the cradle of the negro race, a vast tract of territory
stretching E. and W. across the African continent from the Atlantic (W.) to the Red Sea and
Highlands of Abyssinia (E.), between the Sahara (W.) and the Gulf of Guinea and the central
equatorial provinces (S.); divided into (a) Upper Soudan, embracing Senegambia, Sierra Leone,
Ashanti, Dahomey, Liberia, and west coast-lands; (6) Lower Soudan, including the Fulah States,
Massina, Gando, Sokoto, &c.; (c) Egyptian Soudan, which in 1882 was subdivided into (1) West
Soudan, including Dar-Fur, Kordofan, Bahr-el-Ghazal, and Dongola; (2) Central Soudan, comprising
Khartoum, Sennaar, Berber, Fashoda, and the Equatorial Province, &c.; (3) Eastern Soudan, bordering
on the Red Sea, and embracing Taka, Suakim, and Massowah; (4) Harar, stretching E. of Abyssinia.
The extension of Egyptian rule into this territory began in 1819 with the capture of Khartoum,
which became the base of military operations, ending in the gradual conquest of the surrounding
regions in 1874. A serious revolt, fanned by religious fanaticism, broke out in 1882, and headed
by the MAHDI (q. v.) and his lieutenant Osman Digna, ended in the utter rout of the Egyptian
forces under Hicks Pasha and Baker Pasha; Gordon, after a vain attempt to relieve him, perished
in Khartoum; but Stanley was more successful in relieving Emin Bey in the Equatorial Province.
Anarchy and despotism ensued until the victorious campaign of KITCHENER (q. v.) again restored
the lost provinces to Egypt.

SOUFFLOT, French architect of the Pantheon of Paris (1713-1780).

SOUL, the name given to the spiritual part of man, the SEAT OF REASON (q. v.) and conscience,
by which he relates and subordinates himself to the higher spiritual world, inspiring him with
a sense of individual responsibility.

SOULT, NICOLAS-JEAN DE DIEU, duke of Dalmatia and marshal of France, born at St. Amans-la-Bastide,
department of Tarn; enlisted as a private in 1785, and by 1794 was general of a brigade; gallant
conduct in Swiss and Italian campaigns under Masséna won him rapid promotion, and in 1804 he
was created a marshal; served with the emperor in Germany, and led the deciding charge at Austerlitz,
and for his services in connection with the Treaty of Tilsit received the title of Duc de Dalmatia;
at the head of the French army in Spain he outmanoeuvred the English in 1808, conquered Portugal,
and opposed to Wellington a skill and tenacity not less than his own, but was thwarted in his
efforts by the obstinate incompetence of Joseph Bonaparte; turned Royalist after the abdication
of Napoleon, but on his return from Elba rallied to the emperor's standard, and fought at Waterloo;
was subsequently banished, but restored in 1819; became active in the public service, and was
honoured as ambassador in England in 1838; retired in 1845 with the honorary title of "Marshal-General
of France" (1769-1851).

SOUND, THE, a strait, 50 m. long, between Sweden and Denmark, which connects the Cattegat with
the Baltic Sea; dues at one time levied on ships passing through the channel were abolished
in 1857, and over three millions paid in compensation, Britain contributing one-third and undertaking
to superintend the navigation and maintain the lighthouses.

SOUTH, ROBERT, an English divine, born at Hackney; obtained several preferments in the Church,
but refused a bishopric; was distinguished for his hostility to the Dissenters, and was never
tired of heaping ridicule on them and their principles; wrote a book in defence of the Trinity
in a somewhat rationalistic view of it, which involved him in a furious controversy with Dr.
Sherlock; was a man of great wit and good sense as well as refinement; his chief writings consist
of "Sermons" (1633-1716).

SOUTH AFRICAN COMPANY. See RHODESIA.

SOUTH AFRICAN REPUBLIC. See TRANSVAAL.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA (320), second largest of the five colonies of Australia, stretches N. and S.
in a broad band, 1850 in. long, through the heart of the continent from the Southern Ocean
to the Gulf of Carpentaria and the Arafura Sea, having Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria
on the E., and Western Australia on the W.; ten times the size of Great Britain, but the greater
portion comprises the Northern Territory, which consists, save a low alluvial coastal strip,
of parched and uninhabited tableland. South Australia proper begins about 26° S. latitude,
and is traversed southwards by the Finke River as far as Eyre Lake (3706 sq. m.), by the Flinders
Range, and the lower Murray River in the E., and diversified here and there by low ranges and
Lake Amadeus (NW.), Torrens and Gairdner (S.); the S. coast is penetrated by the great gulfs
of Spencer and St. Vincent, round and to the N. and E. of which the bulk of the population
is gathered in a region not much larger than Scotland; is the chief wheat-growing colony, and
other important industries are mining (chiefly copper), sheep-rearing, and wine-making; chief
exports, wool, wheat, and copper; the railway and telegraph systems are well developed, the
Overland Telegraph Line (1973 m.) stretching across the continent from Adelaide to Port Darwin
being a marvel of engineering enterprise. Adelaide is the capital. The governor is appointed
by the crown, and there are a legislative council or upper house, and an assembly or lower
house. State education is free. Began to be settled in 1836, and five years later became a
Crown colony.

SOUTH SEA BUBBLE, the name given to the disastrous financial project set on foot by HARLEY
(q. v.) to relieve the national debt and restore public credit, which produced an unparalleled
rush of speculation, ending in the ruin of thousands of people. Through the efforts of Harley
a company of merchants was induced in 1711 to buy up the floating national debt of £10,000,000
on a government guarantee of 6 per cent. interest, and a right to a monopoly of trade in the
South Seas. The shares rose by leaps and bounds as tales of the fabulous wealth of the far
South Seas circulated, till, in 1720, £200 shares were quoted at £1000; earlier in the same
year the company had taken over the entire national debt of upwards of 30 millions. In the
craze for speculation which had seized the public hundreds of wild schemes were floated. At
length the "Bubble" burst. The chairman and several directors of the company sold out when
shares had reached £1000; suspicion followed, confidence vanished, stock fell, and in a few
days thousands from end to end of the country were bewailing their ruin. The private estates
of the fraudulent directors were confiscated for the relief of the sufferers. To Sir Robert
Walpole belongs the credit of extricating the finances of the country from the muddle into
which they had fallen.

SOUTHAMPTON (94), an important seaport of South Hampshire, 79 m. SW. of London, situated on
a small peninsula at the head of Southampton Water (a fine inlet, 11 m. by 2), between the
mouths of the Itchen (E.) and the Test (W.); portions of the old town-walls and four gateways
still remain; is the head-quarters of the Ordnance Survey; has splendid docks, and is an important
steam-packet station for the West Indies, Brazil, and South Africa; yacht and ship building
and engine-making are flourishing industries.

SOUTHCOTT, JOANNA, a prophetess, born in Devon, of humble parents; became a Methodist; suffered
under religious mania; gave herself out as the woman referred to in Revelation xii.; imagined
herself to be with child, and predicted she would on a certain day give birth to the promised
Prince of Peace, for which occasion great preparations were made, but all to no purpose; she
died of dropsy two months after the time predicted; she found numbers to believe in her even
after her death; she traded in passports to heaven, which she called "seals," and persuaded
numbers to purchase them (1750-1814).

SOUTHERN CROSS, a constellation of the southern heavens, the five principal stars of which
form a rough and somewhat irregular cross, the shape of which is gradually changing; it corresponds
in the southern heavens to the Great Bear in the northern.

SOUTHEY, ROBERT, poet-laureate, born, the son of a linen-draper, at Bristol; was expelled from
Westminster School for a satirical article in the school magazine directed against flogging;
in the following year (1793) entered Balliol College, where he only remained one year, leaving
it a Unitarian and a red-hot republican; was for a time enamoured of Coleridge's wild pantisocratic
scheme; married (1795) clandestinely Edith Frickes, a penniless girl, sister to Mrs. Coleridge,
and in disgrace with his English relatives visited his uncle in Lisbon, where in six months
he laid the foundation of his knowledge of Spanish history and literature; the Church and medicine
had already, as possible careers, been abandoned, and on his return to England he made a half-hearted
effort to take up law; still unsettled he again visited Portugal, and finally was relieved
of pecuniary difficulties by the settlement of a pension on him by an old school friend, which
he relinquished in 1807 on receiving a pension from Government; meanwhile had settled at Keswick,
where he prosecuted with untiring energy the craft of authorship; "Joan of Arc," "Thalaba,"
"Madoc," and "The Curse of Kehama," won for him the laureateship in 1813, and in the same year
appeared his prose masterpiece "The Life of Nelson"; of numerous other works mention may be
made of his Histories of Brazil and the Peninsular War, Lives of Bunyan and Wesley, and "Colloquies
on Society"; declined a baronetcy offered by Peel; domestic affliction--the death of children,
and the insanity and death of his wife--saddened his later years, which were brightened in
the last by his second marriage (1839) with the poetess and his twenty years' friend, Caroline
Bowles; as a poet Southey has few readers nowadays; full of miscellaneous interest, vigour
of narrative, and spirited rhythm, his poems yet lack the finer spirit of poetry; but in prose
he ranks with the masters of English prose style "of a kind at once simple and scholarly" (1774-1843).

SOUTHPORT (41), a watering-place of Lancashire, situated on the southern shore of the Ribble
estuary, 18 m. N. of Liverpool; is a town of quite modern growth and increasing popularity;
has a fine sea-shore, esplanade, park, theatre, public library, art gallery, etc.

SOUTHWARK (339), or the BOROUGH, a division of London, on the Surrey side of the Thames, opposite
the City, and annexed to it in 1827; it sends three members to Parliament, and among its principal
buildings are St. Saviour's Church and Guys Hospital.

SOUTHWELL, ROBERT, poet, born in Norfolk; studied at Douay, and became a Jesuit priest; came
to England as a missionary, was thrown into prison, tortured ten times by the rack, and at
length executed at Tyburn as a traitor for disseminating Catholic doctrine; his poems are religious
chiefly, and excellent, and were finally collected under the title "St. Peter's Complaint,"
"Mary Magdalen's Tears, and Other Works"; "The Burning Babe" is characterised by Professor
Saintsbury as a "splendid poem" (1560-1595).

SOUVESTRE, ÉMILE, French novelist and playwright, born at Morlaix; at 30 he established himself
in Paris as a journalist, and became noted as a writer of plays and of charming sketches of
Breton life, essays, and fiction; "Les Derniers Bretons" and "Foyer Breton" are considered
his best work (1806-1854).

SOUZA, MADAME DE (maiden name Adelaide Filleul), French novelist, born in Paris, and educated
in a convent, on her leaving which she was married to the Comte de Flahaut, a man much older
than herself, and with whom she lived unhappily; fled to Germany and then to England on the
outbreak of the Revolution; afterwards returned to Paris, and as the wife of the Marquis de
Souza-Botelho presided over one of the most charming of salons, in which the chief attraction
was her own bright and gifted personality; her novels, "Eugène de Rothelin," "Eugénie et Mathilde,"
etc., breathe the spirit of the old régime, and are full of natural and vivacious pictures
of French life (1761-1836).

SOWERBY BRIDGE (10), manufacturing town in West Riding of Yorkshire, 3 m. SW. of Halifax; cotton-spinning,
woollen manufactures, and dyeing are the chief; it was the birthplace of Tillotson.

SOY, a sauce or condiment used in Japan and China; prepared from a bean which is extensively
cultivated in those countries.

SOYER, ALEXIS, a famous cook, born at Meaux; turned aside from a tempting career as a vocalist
and took up gastronomy as a profession; during the 1830 Revolution he narrowly escaped with
his life to London, which he henceforth made his head-quarters, rising to the position of cook
to the Reform Club; rendered important services as a culinary expert in Ireland during the
1847 famine, and at the Crimea (1855); was the author of various highly popular works on the
art of cooking, "The Modern Housewife," "Shilling Cookery Book," etc. (1809-1858).

SPA (7), a watering-place in Belgium, 20 m. SE. of Liège; a favourite health and fashionable
resort on account of its springs and its picturesque surroundings, the number of visitors during
the season amounting to 12,000.

SPAHI, an Algerine cavalry soldier serving in the French army.

SPAIN (17,800), a kingdom of South-West Europe, which with Portugal (less than one-fifth the
size of Spain) occupies the entire Iberian Peninsula, and is divided from France on the N.
by the Pyrenees Mountains, and on the E. and S. is washed by the Mediterranean; the NW. corner
fronts the Bay of Biscay (N.) and the Atlantic (W.), while Portugal completes the western boundary;
its area, three and one-third times the size of England and Wales, is, along with the Canaries
and the Balearic Isles, divided into 49 provinces, although the more familiar names of the
14 old kingdoms, states, and provinces (New and Old Castile, Galicia, Aragon, etc.) are still
in use; forms a compact square, with a regular, in parts precipitous, coast-line, which is
short compared with its area; is in the main a highland country, a vast plateau (2000 to 3000
ft. high) occupying the centre, buttressed and crossed by ranges (Sierra Nevada in the S.,
Sierra de Guadarrama, Sierra Morena, etc.), and diversified by the long valleys of the Ebro,
Douro, Tagus, Guadalquivir, and other lesser rivers, all of which are rapid, and only a few
navigable; climate varies considerably according as one proceeds to the central plains, where
extremes of heat and cold are experienced, but over all is the driest in Europe; agriculture,
although less than a half of the land is under cultivation, is by far the most important industry,
and Valencia and Catalonia the provinces where it is most successfully carried out, wheat and
other cereals, the olive and the vine, being the chief products; other important industries
are mining, the Peninsula being extremely rich in the useful minerals; Merino sheep farming,
anchovy and sardine fisheries, wine-making, and the manufacture of cotton, silk, leather, and
paper; chief exports are wine, fruits, mineral ores, oil and cork; Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia,
Seville, and Malaga are the chief towns; the widest variety of character exists among the natives
of the various provinces, from the hard-working, thrifty Catalan to the lazy, improvident Murcian,
but all possess the southern love "of song, dance, and colour," and have an inherent grace
and dignity of manner; Roman Catholicism is the national religion; and although systems of
elementary and secondary schools are in vogue, education over all is in a deplorably backward
condition; the Government is a hereditary and constitutional monarchy; the Cortes consists
of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies; universal suffrage and trial by jury are recent
innovations. The outstanding fact in the history of Spain, after the downfall of the Roman
Empire, of which she had long formed a part, is the national struggle with the Moors, who overran
the peninsula in the 8th century, firmly established themselves, and were not finally overthrown
till Granada, their last possession, was taken in 1492; sixteen years later the country became
a united kingdom, and for a brief period, with its vast American colonies and wide European
possessions, became in the 16th century the dominant power of Europe; since then she has lagged
more and more in the race of nations, and her once vast colonial empire has gradually crumbled
away till now, since the unsuccessful war with America in 1898, only an island or two remains
to her.

SPALATO (15), a historic and flourishing town of Dalmatia, finely situated on a promontory
on the E. side of the Adriatic, 160 m. SE. of Fiume; a place of considerable antiquity, and
one of the great cities of the Roman world; is chiefly famed for the vast palace built by Diocletian,
and which became his residence after his abdication; subsidiary buildings and grounds were
enclosed by walls, within which now a considerable part of the town stands; the noblest portions
of the palace are still extant; the modern town carries on an active trade in grain, wine,
cattle, etc.; is noted for its liqueurs.

SPALDING, a market-town in Lincolnshire, 34 m. SE. of Lincoln, in the heart of the Fens; is
a very ancient place; has a trade in agricultural produce, and is a railway centre.

SPALLANZANI, LAZARO, a noted Italian scientist, born at Scandiano, in Modena; held chairs of
Philosophy and Greek in the Universities of Reggio and Modena, but more attracted to natural
science he in 1768 became professor of Natural History at Pavia; wrote elaborate accounts of
expeditions to Sicily and elsewhere; overturned Button's theory of spontaneous generation,
and in important works made some valuable contributions to physiological science (1729-1799).

SPANDAU (45), an important town and fortress of Prussia, in Brandenburg, at the confluence
of the Spree and Havel, 8 m. W. by N. of Berlin; fortifications are of the strongest and most
modern kind, and in the "Julius Tower" of the powerful citadel the German war-chest of £6,000,000
is preserved; there is an arsenal and large Government cannon-foundries, powder-factories, etc.

SPANHEIM, FRIEDRICH, a theological professor at Geneva (1631), and afterwards at Leyden (1641);
author of the work on "Universal Grace" (1600-1648). His son, EZECHIEL SPANHEIM (1629-1710)
became professor of Eloquence in his native town, Geneva, and after acting as tutor to the
sons of the Elector Palatine was employed on several important diplomatic missions to Italy,
England, and France; meanwhile devoted his leisure to ancient law and numismatics, publishing
learned works on these subjects. FRIEDRICH SPANHEIM, brother of preceding, was a learned Calvinistic
professor of Theology at Heidelberg (1685), and afterwards at Leyden (1632-1701).

SPANISH MAIN (i. e. mainland), a name given at one time to the Central American provinces of
Spain bordering on the Caribbean Sea, and also to the Caribbean Sea itself.

SPARKS, JAMES, president of Harvard University, born in Connecticut; bred a carpenter, took
to study, attended Harvard, where he graduated, studied theology, and became Unitarian, becoming
a minister in that body, but retired from the ministry and settled in Boston; edited the North
American Review; wrote and edited biographies of eminent Americans, and edited the writings
of Benjamin Franklin and George Washington (1789-1866).

SPARTA or LACEDEMON, the capital of ancient Laconia, in the Peloponnesus, on the right bank
of the Eurotas, 20 m. from the sea; was 6 m. in circumference, consisted of several distinct
quarters, originally separate villages, never united into a regular town; was never surrounded
by walls, its walls being the bravery of its citizens; its mythical founder was Lacedemon,
who called the city Sparta from the name of his wife; one of its early kings was Menelaus,
the husband of Helen; LYCURGUS (q. v.) was its law-giver; its policy was aggressive, and its
sway gradually extended over the whole Peloponnesus, to the extinction at the end of the Peloponnesian
War of the rival power of Athens, which for a time rose to the ascendency, and its unquestioned
supremacy thereafter for 30 years, when all Greece was overborne by the Macedonian power.

SPARTACUS, leader of the revolt of the slaves at Rome, which broke out about 73 B.C.; was a
Thracian by birth, a man of powerful physique, in succession a shepherd, a soldier, and a captain
of banditti; was in one of his predatory expeditions taken prisoner and sold to a trainer of
gladiators, and became one of his slaves; persuaded his fellow-slaves to attempt their freedom,
and became their chief and that of other runaways who joined them; for two years they defied
and defeated one Roman army after another sent to crush them, and laid Italy waste, till at
the end of that time Licinius Crassus, taking up arms in earnest, overpowered them in a decisive
battle at the river Silarus, in which Spartacus was slain.

SPASMODIC SCHOOL, name given to a small group of minor poets about the middle of the 19th century,
represented by Philips, James Bailey, Sydney Dobell, and Alexander Smith, from their strenuous,
overstrained, and unnatural style.

SPECIFIC GRAVITY, the weight of a body compared with another of equal bulk taken as a standard,
such as the weight of a cubic inch of water.

SPECTRUM, the name given to coloured and other rays of pure light separated by refraction in
its transmission through a prism, as exhibited on a screen in a darkened chamber.

SPECTRUM ANALYSIS, name given to the method of determining the composition of a body by means
of the spectrum of light which it gives forth or passes through it, founded on the principle
that a substance powerfully absorbs exactly the rays it radiates, and every substance has its
own absorbing powers; or it may be defined the method of distinguishing different kinds of
matter by their properties in relation to light.

SPECULATIVE, THE, that which we think and which as such goes no deeper than the intellect,
which is but the eye of the soul, not the heart of it. See SPIRITUAL, THE.

SPEDDING, JAMES, editor of Bacon, born at Mirehouse, near Keswick, son of a Cumberland squire;
scholar and honorary Fellow of Cambridge; became in 1847 Under-Secretary of State with £2000
a year; devoted his life to the study of Bacon, the fruit of which the "Letters and the Life
of Francis Bacon, including all his Occasional Works, newly selected and set forth with a Commentary,
Biographical and Historical," in 7 vols.; a truly noble man, and much esteemed by his contemporaries
in literature (1808-1881).

SPEKE, JOHN BANNING, African explorer, born in Somersetshire; became a soldier, and served
in the Punjab; joined Burton in 1854 in an expedition into Somaliland, and three years after
in an attempt to discover the sources of the Nile, and setting out alone discovered Victoria
Nyanza, which he maintained was the source of the river, but which Burton questioned; on his
return he published in 1863 an account of his discovery, which he was about to defend in the
British Association when he was shot by the accidental discharge of his gun while he was out
hunting (1827-1864).

SPENCE, JOSEPH, a miscellaneous writer, born in Hants; educated at and a Fellow of Oxford;
his principal work, "Polymetis; or, an Inquiry into the Agreement between the Works of the
Roman Poets and the Remains of Ancient Artists"; his "Anecdotes" are valuable from his acquaintance
with the literary class of the time, and have preserved his name (1699-1768).

SPENCER, HERBERT, systematiser and unifier of scientific knowledge up to date, born at Derby,
son of a teacher, who early inoculated him with an interest in natural objects, though he adopted
at first the profession of a railway engineer, which in about eight years he abandoned for
the work of his life by way of literature, his first effort being a series of "Letters on the
Proper Sphere of Government" in the Nonconformist in 1842, and his first work "Social Statics,"
published in 1851, followed by "Principles of Psychology" four years after; in 1861 he published
a work on "Education," and his "First Principles" the following year, after which he began
to construct his system of "Synthetic Philosophy," which fills a dozen large volumes, and has
established his fame as the foremost scientific philosopher of the time. Following in the lines
of Auguste Comte and John Stuart Mill, he takes a wider sweep than either of them, fills the
field he occupies with fuller and riper detail, resolves the whole of science into still more
ultimate principles, and works the whole up into a more compact and comprehensive system. He
is valiant before all for science, and relegates everything and every interest to Agnosticism
that cannot give proof of its scientific rights. "What a thing is in itself," he says, "cannot
be known, because to know it we must strip it of all that it becomes, of all that has come
to adhere to it." The ultimate thus arrived at he finds to be, and calls, Energy, and that
therefore, he says, we don't and can't know. That a thing is what it becomes seems never to
occur to him, and yet only the knowledge of that is the knowledge of the ultimate of being,
which is the thing he says we cannot know. To trace life to its roots he goes back to the cell,
whereas common-sense would seem to require us, in order to know what the cell is, to inquire
at the fruit. This is the doctrine of St. John, "The Word was God." In addition to agnosticism
another doctrine of Spencer's is Evolution, but in maintaining this he fails to see he is arguing
for an empty conception barren of all thought, which thought is the alpha and omega of the
whole process, and is as much an ultimate as and still more so than the energy in which he
absorbs God. Indeed, his philosophy is what is called the AUFKLÄRUNG (q. v.) in full bloom,
and in which he strips us of all our spiritual content or Inhalt, and under which he would
lead us out of "HOUNDSDITCH" (q. v.), not with, but without, all that properly belongs to us;
b. 1820.

SPENCER GULF, a deep inlet on the coast of South Australia, 180 m. by 90 m.

SPENER, PHILIP JACOB, German Protestant theologian, founder of the PIETISTS (q. v.), born in
Alsace, studied in Strasburg; in 1670 held a series of meetings which he called "Collegia Pietatis,"
whence the name of his sect; established himself in Dresden and in Berlin, but Halle was the
centre of the movement; he was an earnest and universally esteemed man (1636-1705).

SPENSER, EDMUND, author of the "Faërie Queene," and one of England's greatest poets; details
of his life are scanty and often hypothetical; born at London of poor but well-connected parents;
entered Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, as a "sizar" in 1569, and during his seven years' residence
there became an excellent scholar; took a master's degree, and formed an important friendship
with Gabriel Harvey; three years of unsettled life followed, but were fruitful in the production
of the "Shepheards' Calendar" (1579), which at once placed him at the head of the English poets
of his day; had already taken his place in the best London literary and political circles as
the friend of Sir Philip Sidney and Leicester, and in 1580 was appointed private secretary
to Lord Grey, then proceeding to Ireland as the Lord Deputy, and although his master soon returned
to England Spencer continued to make his home in Ireland, where he obtained some civil appointments,
and in 1591 entered into possession of a considerable portion of the forfeited estates of the
Earl of Desmond, adjacent to his house, Kilcolman Castle, co. Cork; seems to have been a pretty
stern landlord, and, as expounded in his admirable tract, "A View of the Present State of Ireland,"
the advocate of a policy of "suppression and repression"; consequently was little loved by
the Irish, and on the outbreak of Tyrone's rebellion in 1598 his house was sacked and burned,
and he himself forced to flee to London, where he died a few weeks later "a ruined and heart-broken
man"; the rich promise of the "Shepheards' Calendar" had been amply fulfilled in the "Complaints,"
"Amoretti," "Colin Clout's Come Home Again," the "Epithalamium" the finest bridal song in any
language, and above all in the six published books of "The Faërie Queene" (1552-1599).

SPERMACETI, a white waxy matter obtained in an oily state from the head of the sperm-whale
inhabiting the Pacific and Indian Oceans; candles made of it yield a particularly steady and
bright light.

SPEY, a river in the N. of Scotland which, rising in Badenoch, flows NE. through Inverness,
Elgin, and Banffshire, falls into the Moray Firth after a course of 107 miles; the salmon-fisheries
are valuable; it is the swiftest of the rivers of Great Britain.

SPEZIA (20), the chief naval station, "the Portsmouth," of Italy; occupies a strongly fortified
site at the head of a bay on the W. side of Italy, 56 m. SE. of Genoa; here are the naval shipbuilding
yards, national arsenal, navy store-houses, besides schools of navigation, manufactures of
cables, sail-cloth, &c.

SPHINX, a fabled animal, an invention of the ancient Egyptians, with the body and claws of
a lioness, and the head of a woman, or of a ram, or of a goat, all types or representations
of the king, effigies of which are frequently placed before temples on each side of the approach;
the most famous of the sphinxes was the one which waylaid travellers and tormented them with
a riddle, which if they could not answer she devoured them, but which Oedipus answered, whereupon
she threw herself into the sea. "Such a sphinx," as we are told in "Past and Present," "is
this life of ours, to all men and nations. Answer it not; the solution for thee is a thing
of teeth and claws."

SPICE ISLANDS. See MOLUCCAS.

SPINELLO, ARETINO, a celebrated Italian fresco-painter, born at Arezzo, where, with visits
to Florence, his life was chiefly spent; was in his day the rival of Giotto, but few of his
frescoes are preserved, and such of his paintings as are to be found in various galleries of
Europe are inferior to his frescoes (1330-1410).

SPINOLA, AMBROSIO, MARQUIS OF, great Spanish general under Philip II. of Spain, born at Genoa,
with a following of 9000, maintained at his own expense, took Ostend after a resistance of
3 years, in consequence of which feat he was appointed commander-in-chief, in which capacity
maintained and again maintained a long struggle with Prince Maurice of Nassau, terminated only
with the death of the latter; his services on behalf of Spain, in the interest of which he
spent his fortune, were never acknowledged, and he died with poignant grief (1571-1630).

SPINOZA, BENEDICT, great modern philosopher, born in Amsterdam, of Jews of Portuguese extraction
in well-to-do circumstances, and had been trained as a scholar; began with the study of the
Bible and the Talmud, but soon exchanged the study of theology in these for that of physics
and the works of Descartes, in which study he drifted farther and farther from the Jewish creed,
and at length openly abandoned it; this exposed him to a persecution which threatened his life,
so that he left Amsterdam and finally settled at The Hague, where, absorbed in philosophic
study, he lived in seclusion, earning a livelihood by polishing optical glasses, which his
friends disposed of for him; his days were short; he suffered from ill-health, and died of
consumption when he was only 44; he was a man of tranquil temper, moderate desires, purity
of motive, and kindly in heart; his great work, his "Ethica," was published a year after his
death; he had held it back during his lifetime because he foresaw it would procure him the
name of atheist, which he shrank from with horror; Spinoza's doctrine is summed up by Dr. Stirling
thus, "Whatever is, is; and that is extension and thought. These two are all that is; and besides
these there is nought. But these two are one; they are attributes of the single substance (that
which, for its existence, stands in need of nothing else), very God, in whom, then, all individual
things and all individual ideas (modes of extension those, of thought these) are comprehended
and take place"; thus we see Spinoza includes under the term extension all individual objects,
and under thought all individual ideas, and these two he includes in God, as He in whom they
live and move and have their being,--a great conception and a pregnant, being the speculative
ground of the being of all that lives and is; not without good reason does Novalis call him
"Der Gott-getrunkene Mensch," the God-intoxicated man (1632-1677).

SPINOZISM, the pantheism of SPINOZA (q. v.), which regards God as the one self-subsistent substance,
and both matter and thought attributes of Him.

SPIRES or SPEYER, an old German town on the left bank of the Rhine, in the Palatinate, 14 m.
SW. of Heidelberg, the seat of a bishop and with a cathedral, of its kind one of the finest
in Europe, and the remains of the Retscher, or imperial palace, where in 1529 the Diet of the
Empire was held at which the Reformers first got the name of Protestants, because of their
protestation against the imperial decree issued at Worms prohibiting any further innovations
in religion.

SPIRIT (lit. breath of life), in philosophy and theology is the Divine mind incarnating itself
in the life of a man, and breathing in all he thinks and does, and so is as the life-principle
of it; employed also to denote any active dominating and pervading principle of life inspired
from any quarter whatever and coming to light in the conduct.

SPIRIT, THE HOLY, the Divine Spirit manifested in Christ which descended upon His disciples
in all its fulness when, shortly after His decease, their eyes were opened to see the meaning
of His life and their hearts to feel the power of it.

SPIRITUAL, THE, the fruit of the quickening and abiding action of a higher principle at the
centre of the being, operating so as to suffuse the whole of it, pervade the whole of it, to
its utmost limits, which, seating itself in the heart of the thoughts and affections, works
and weaves itself into all the life tissues and becomes part and parcel of the very flesh and
blood. No idea, however true, however elevated or elevating one may feel it, is spiritual till
it centralises in the heart and affects all the issues thereof.

SPIRITUALISM, a term that has two very different meanings, denoting at one time the doctrine
that the only real is the SPIRITUAL (q. v.), and at another time a belief in the existence
of spirits whom we, by means of certain media, can hold correspondence with, and who, whether
we are conscious of it or not, exercise in some cases an influence over human destiny, more
particularly of the spirits of dead men with whom in their disembodied state we can by means
of certain mediums hold correspondence, and who, from their continued interest in the world,
do in that state keep watch and ward over its affairs as well as mingle in them, forming a
world of spirits gone from hence, yet more or less active in the sense world.

SPITHEAD, the eastern portion of the strait which separates the Isle of Wight from the Hampshire
coast, 14 m. long, with an average breadth of 4 m.; is a sheltered and safe riding for ships,
and as such is much used by the British navy; receives its name from a long "spit" of sandbank
jutting out from the mainland. See the SOLENT.

SPITZBERGEN, the name of an Arctic archipelago lying 400 m. N. of Norway, embracing West Spitzbergen
(15,260 sq. m.), North-East Land, Stans Foreland, King Charles land or Wiche Island, Barents
Land, Prince Charles Foreland, besides numerous smaller islands; practically lies under great
fields of ice, enormous glaciers, and drifts of snow, pierced here and there by mountain peaks,
hence the name Spitzbergen; the home of vast flocks of sea-birds, of polar bears, and Arctic
foxes, while herds of reindeer are attracted to certain parts by a scanty summer vegetation;
there are no permanent inhabitants, but the fiord-cut shores are frequented in summer by Norwegian
seal and walrus hunters.

SPLÜGEN, an Alpine pass in the Swiss canton of the Grisons; the roadway 24 m. long, opened
in 1822, crosses the Rhætian Alps from Chur, the capital of Grisons, to Chiavenna, in Lombardy,
and reaches a height of 6595 ft.

SPOHR, LUDWIG, musical composer and violinist, born in Brunswick; produced both operas and
oratorios, "Faust" among the former, the "Last Judgment" and the "Fall of Babylon" among the
latter; his violin-playing was admirable, producing from the tones of the instrument the effects
of the human voice; wrote a handbook for violinists (1784-1859).

SPOLETO (8), an ancient city of Central Italy, built on the rocky slopes of a hill, in the
province of Umbria, 75 m. NE. of Rome; is protected by an ancient citadel, and has an interesting
old cathedral with frescoes by Lippo Lippi, and an imposing 7th-century aqueduct; was capital
of a Lombard duchy, and in 1220 was joined to the Papal States.

SPONTINI, GASPARO, Italian operatic composer, born at Majolati; settled in Paris in 1803, and
a year later made his mark with the little opera "Milton," and subsequently established his
fame with the three grand operas, "La Vestale," "Ferdinand Cortez," and "Olympia"; from 1820
to 1842 was stationed at Berlin under court patronage, and in the face of public and press
opposition continued to write in a strain of elevated and melodious music various operas, including
his greatest work "Agnes von Hohenstaufen" (1774-1851).

SPORADES, a group of islands in the Ægean Sea, of which the largest is the Mitylene.

SPOTTISWOODE, JOHN, archbishop of St. Andrews; accompanied James VI. to London, was zealous
for the establishment of Episcopacy in Scotland; was archbishop of Glasgow before he was translated
to St. Andrews; officiated at coronation of Charles I. at Holyrood in 1633, and was two years
after made Chancellor of Scotland; wrote a "History of the Church of Scotland"; was buried
in Westminster (1565-1639).

SPOTTISWOODE, WILLIAM, mathematician and physician, born in London; was Queen's printer, as
his father had been before him; published numerous important papers on scientific subjects,
his greatest work "The Polarization of Light," a subject on which he was a great authority
(1825-1883).

SPREE, a river of Prussia, rises in East Saxony close to the Bohemian border, follows a winding
and generally N. and NW. course of 227 m. till its Junction with the Havel at Spandau; chief
towns on its banks are Bautzen, Kottbus, Lübben, and Berlin; is connected with the Oder by
the Frederick William Canal.

SPRENGEL, CARL, physician and botanist, born in Pomerania; held professorship in Halle; wrote
on the history of both medicine and botany (1766-1833).

SPRENGER, ALOYS, eminent Orientalist, born in the Tyrol; studied in Vienna; went to India in
1843, where he diligently occupied his mind in study, and on his return in 1857 was appointed
professor of Oriental Languages at Bern, from which he was translated to Heidelberg; edited
Persian and Arabic works, and wrote the "Life and Doctrine of Mohammed"; b. 1813.

SPRINGFIELD, 1, capital (34) of Illinois, situated in a flourishing coal district, 185 m. SW.
of Chicago; has an arsenal, two colleges, and a handsome marble capitol; coal-mining, foundries,
and flour, cotton, and paper mills are the chief industries; the burial-place of Abraham Lincoln.
2, A nicely laid out and flourishing city (62) of Massachusetts, capital of Hampden County,
on the Connecticut River (spanned here by five bridges), 99 m. W. by S. of Boston; settled
in 1635; has important manufactories of cottons, woollens, paper, and a variety of other articles,
besides the United States armoury. 3, Capital (22) of Greene County, Missouri, 232 m. WSW.
of St. Louis; has rapidly increasing manufactories of cottons, woollens, machinery, &c.; in
the vicinity was fought the battle of Wilson's Creek, 10th August 1861. 4, Capital (38) of
Clark County, Ohio, on Lagonda Creek and Mad River, 80 m. NE. of Cincinnati; is an important
railway centre, and possesses numerous factories of machinery, bicycles, paper, &c.

SPURGEON, CHARLES HADDON, a great preacher, born at Kelvedon, Essex; had no college training;
connected himself with the Baptists; commenced as an evangelist at Cambridge when he was but
a boy, and was only 17 when he was appointed to a pastorate; by-and-by on invitation he settled
in Southwark, and held meetings which were always requiring larger and larger accommodation;
at length in 1861 the Metropolitan Tabernacle, capable of accommodating 6000, was opened, where
he drew about him large congregations, and round which he, in course of time, established a
number of institutions in the interest at once of humanity and religion; his pulpit addresses
were listened to by thousands every Sunday, and were one and all printed the week following,
and circulated all over the land and beyond it till they filled volumes; no preacher of the
time had such an audience, and none such a wide popularity; he preached the old Puritan gospel,
but it was presented in such a form and in such simple, idiomatic phrase, as to commend it
as no less a gospel to his own generation: besides his sermons as published, other works were
also widely circulated; special mention may be made of "John Ploughman's Talk" (1834-1892).

SPURZHEIM, JOHANN CASPAR, phrenologist, born in Trèves; went to study medicine at Vienna; attended
the lectures of Gall and became a disciple, accompanying him on a lecturing tour through Central
Europe, and settling with him in 1807 in Paris; in 1813 he separated from Gall, and went to
lecture in England with much acceptance; in 1832 he proceeded to America with the same object,
but he had hardly started on his mission when he died at Boston; he wrote numerous works bearing
on phrenology, education, &c. (1776-1832).

SRUTI, the name given to sacred and revealed tradition, or revelation generally, among the Hindus.

STAAL, JEAN, a French lady of humble circumstances, of metaphysical turn; skilled in the philosophies
of Descartes and Malebranche; was in the Bastille for two years for political offences; was
a charming woman, and captivated the Baron de Staal; left Memoirs and Letters (1693-1750).

STABAT MATER, A Latin hymn on the dolours of the Virgin, beginning with these words, and composed
in the 13th century by Jacopone da Todi, a Franciscan monk, and set to music by several composers,
the most popular being Rossini's.

STADIUM, the course on which were celebrated the great games (foot-racing, wrestling, &c.)
of ancient Greece, held at Olympia, Athens, and other places; the most famous was that laid
out at Olympia; length 600 Greek feet, which was adopted as the Greek standard of measure,
and equalled 606½ English feet.

STADTHOLDER, an anglicised form of the Dutch "stadhouder" (i. e. stead-holder), a title conferred
on the governors of provinces in the Low Countries, but chiefly associated with the rulers
of Holland, Zealand, and Utrecht; in 1544 the title was held by William the Silent, and continued
to be the designation of the head of the new republic of the United Provinces of the Netherlands
until 1802, when William V. was compelled to resign his stadtholdership to France, the country
afterwards assuming a monarchical government.

STAËL, MADAME DE, distinguished French lady, born in Paris, daughter of Necker, and only child;
a woman of eminent ability, and an admirer of Rousseau; wrote "Letters" on his character and
works; married a man ten years older than herself, the Baron de Staël-Holstein, the Swedish
ambassador in Paris, where she lived all through the events of the Revolution in sympathy with
the royal family; wrote an appeal in defence of the queen, and quitted the city during the
Reign of Terror; on her return in 1795 her salon became the centre of the literary and political
activity of the time; the ambition of Napoleon excited her distrust, and forced her into opposition
so expressed that in 1801 she was ordered to leave Paris within 24 hours, and not to come within
40 leagues of it; in 1802 she was left a widow, and soon after she went first to Weimar, where
she met Goethe and Schiller, and then to Berlin; by-and-by she returned to France, but on the
publication of her "Corinne," was ordered out of the country; after this appeared her great
epoch-making work on Germany, "L'Allemagne," which was seized by the French censors; after
this she quitted for good the soil of France, to which she had returned; settled in Switzerland,
at Coppet, where she died (1766-1817).

STAFFA ("pillar Island"), an uninhabited islet of basaltic formation off the W. coast of Scotland,
54 m. W. of Oban; 1½ m. in circumference, and girt with precipitous cliffs, except on the sheltered
NE., where there is a shelving shore; is remarkable for its caves, of which Fingal's Cave is
the most famous, having an entrance 42 ft. wide and 66 ft. high, and penetrating 227 ft.

STAFFORD (20), county town of Staffordshire, on the Sow, 29 m. NNW. of Birmingham; has two
fine old churches, St. Mary's and St. Chad's, interesting architecturally, King Edward's grammar
school, and Stafford Castle finely situated on the outskirts; is an important railway centre,
and noted for its boot and shoe manufactures.

STAFFORDSHIRE (1,083), a midland mining and manufacturing county of England, wedged in on the
N. between Cheshire (W.) and Derby (N.), and extending southward to Worcester, with Shropshire
on the W., and Leicester and Warwick on the E.; with the exception of the wild and hilly "moorland"
in the N. consists of an undulating plain crossed by the Trent, and intersected in all directions
by canals and railways; embraces two rich coal-fields, one in the "Black Country" of the S.,
where rich deposits of iron-stone are also worked, and one in the N., embracing the district
of the "Potteries"; famous breweries exist at Burton; Wolverhampton is the largest town.

STAGIRITE, THE, ARISTOTLE (q. v.), so called from his native place Stagira.

STAHL, FRIEDRICH JULIUS, writer of jurisprudence, born at Münich, of Jewish parents; embraced
Christianity; wrote "The Philosophy of Law"; became professor thereof at Berlin; was a staunch
Lutheran, and a Conservative in politics (1802-1861).

STAHL, GEORG ERNEST, a German chemist, born at Anspach; was professor of Medicine at Halle;
author of the theory of PHLOGISTON (q. v.) and of ANIMISM (q. v.) (1650-1735).

STAINES (5), a pretty little town of Middlesex, on the Thames (spanned here by a fine granite
bridge), 6 m. SE. of Windsor; St. Mary's church has a tower designed by Inigo Jones; has breweries,
mustard-mills, and other factories; in the neighbourhood are RUNNYMEDE and COOPER'S HILL (q. v.).

STAIR, JOHN DALRYMPLE, 1ST EARL OF, eldest son of James Dalrymple (1619-1695) of Stair (a distinguished
lawyer in his day, who rose to be President of the Court of Session; wrote a well-known work,
"Institutes of the Law of Scotland"; as a Protestant supported the Prince of Orange, and by
him was raised to the peerage as viscount in 1690); adopted law as a profession, and was called
to the bar in 1672; got into trouble with Claverhouse, and was fined and imprisoned, but in
1687 was received into royal favour, became Lord Advocate, a Lord Ordinary in the Court of
Session, and subsequently as Secretary of State for Scotland was mainly responsible for the
MASSACRE OF GLENCOE (q. v.); was created an earl in 1703, and later was active in support of
the union of the English and Scottish Parliaments (1648-1707).

STAIR, JOHN DALRYMPLE, 2ND EARL OF, second son of preceding; entered the army at 19, and fought
with his regiment, the Cameronians, at Steinkirk; studied law for some time at Leyden, but
went back to the army, and by 1701 was a lieutenant-colonel in the Scots Foot Guards, and in
1706 colonel of the Cameronians; fought with distinction under Marlborough at Venlo, Ramillies,
Oudenarde, and, as commander of a brigade, at the siege of Lille and at Malplaquet; was active
in support of the Hanoverian succession, and subsequently in the reigns of George I. and II.
filled important diplomatic and military posts (1673-1747).

STALACTITE, a cone of carbonate of lime attached like an icicle to the roof of a cavern, and
formed by the dripping of water charged with the carbonate from the rock above; Stalagmite
being the name given to the cone formed on the floor by the dripping from a stalactite above.

STALYBRIDGE (44), a manufacturing town of Cheshire and Lancashire, on both banks of the Tame,
7½ m. E. by N. of Manchester; is of modern growth, and noted for its large cotton-yarn and
calico factories, iron-foundries and machine-shops.

STAMFORD (8), an interesting old town, partly in Lincolnshire and partly in Northamptonshire,
on the Welland, 12 m. WNW. of Peterborough; was one of the five Danish burghs, and is described
in DOMESDAY BOOK (q. v.); a massacre of Jews occurred here in 1140, and in Plantagenet times
it was a place of ecclesiastical, parliamentary, and royal importance; figures in the Wars
of the Roses and the Civil War of Charles I.'s time; has three fine Early English churches,
a corn exchange, two handsome schools, Browne's Hospital, founded in Richard III.'s reign,
and Burghley House, a noble specimen of Renaissance architecture; the Stamford Mercury (1695)
is the earliest provincial newspaper; the district is mainly agricultural.

STAMFORD (16), a town of Connecticut, situated amid surrounding hills in Long Island Sound,
33 m. NE. of New York; is a summer resort, and has iron and bronze foundries, etc.

STAMFORD BRIDGE, a village of Yorkshire, on the Derwent, 9¼ m. NE. of York; the scene of Harold's
victory over the invading forces of Harold Haarfager on September 25, 1066.

STAMP ACT, a measure passed by Grenville's Ministry in 1765 enacting that all legal documents
used in the colonies should bear Government stamps. The Americans resisted on the ground that
taxation without representation in Parliament was unjust. Riots broke out, and the stamped
paper was carefully avoided. In 1766 Pitt championed the cause of the colonists, and largely
through his eloquence Government in that year was induced to repeal the Act.

STANDING STONES, rude unhewn stones standing singly or in groups in various parts of the world,
and erected at remote periods, presumably in memory of some great achievement or misfortune,
or as having some monumental reference. (1793-1866).

STANHOPE, LADY HESTER LUCY, born at Chevening, Kent, the eldest daughter of the third Earl
of Stanhope, and niece of William Pitt; a woman of unusual force of character and attractiveness;
from 1803 to 1806 was, as the confidant and housekeeper of her uncle William Pitt, a leader
of society; retired with a Government pension after Pitt's death, but impelled by her restless
nature, led an unsettled life in Southern Europe, and finally settled in Syria in 1814, making
her home in the old convent of Mar Elias, near Mount Lebanon, where, cut off from Western civilisation,
for 25 years she exercised a remarkable influence over the rude tribes of the district; assumed
the dress of a Mohammedan chief, and something of the religion of Islam, and in the end came
to look upon herself as a sort of prophetess; interesting accounts of her strange life and
character have been published by her English physician, Dr. Madden, and others (1776-1839).

STANHOPE, PHILIP HENRY, EARL, historian, born at Walmer, only son of the fourth Earl of Stan
hope; graduated at Oxford in 1827, and three years later entered Parliament as a Conservative;
held office as Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs in Peel's Ministry of 1834-35, and as Secretary
to the Indian Board of Control during 1845-46; succeeded his father in 1855, before which he
was known by the courtesy title of Lord Mahon; literature was his chief interest, and as a
historian and biographer he has a deservedly high reputation for industry and impartial judgment;
a "History of England from 1713 to 1783," a "History of Spain under Charles II.," "Historical
and Critical Essays," and Lives of Pitt, Condé, and Belisarius, are his most important works
(1805-1875).

STANISLAS I., LECZINSKI, king of Poland, born in Lemberg; afterwards sovereign of the Duchies
of Bar and Lorraine; became the father-in-law of Louis XV. (1677-1766).

STANLEY. ARTHUR PENRHYN, widely known as Dean Stanley, having been dean of Westminster, born
at Alderley, in Cheshire, son of the rector, who became bishop of Norwich; was educated at
Rugby under Dr. Arnold, and afterwards at Balliol College, Oxford; took orders, and was for
12 years tutor in his college; published his "Life of Dr. Arnold" in 1844, his "Sinai and Palestine"
in 1855, after a visit to the East; held a professorship of Ecclesiastical History in Oxford
for a time, and published lectures on the Eastern Church, the Jewish Church, the Athanasian
Creed, and the Church of Scotland; accompanied the Prince of Wales to the East in 1862, and
became dean of Westminster next year in succession to Trench; wrote "Historical Monuments of
Westminster Abbey" and "Christian Institutions"; he had been married to Lady Augusta Bruce,
and her death deeply affected him and accelerated his own; he was buried beside her in Henry
VII.'s chapel; he was an amiable man, an interesting writer, and a broad churchman of very
pronounced views (1815-1881).

STANLEY, HENRY MORTON, African explorer, born in Denbigh, Wales, in humble circumstances, his
parental name being Rowlands, he having assumed the name of Stanley after that of his adopted
father, Mr. Stanley, New Orleans; served in the Confederate army; became a newspaper foreign
correspondent, to the New York Herald at length; was summoned to go and "find Livingstone";
after many an impediment found Livingstone on 10th November 1871, and after staying with him,
and accompanying him in explorations, returned to England in August next year; in 1874 he set
out again at the head of an expedition, solved several problems, and returned home; published
"Congo and its Free State," "In Darkest Africa," &c.; represents Lambeth, North, in Parliament,
having been elected in 1895; b. 1840.

STANNARY, a general term used to cover the tin mines of a specified district, the miners themselves,
and such customs and privileges as appertain to the workers and the mines. In England the term
is specially associated with the stannaries of Devon and Cornwall, which by an Act of Edward
III. were conferred in perpetuity upon the Prince of Wales as Duke of Cornwall, who holds the
title of Lord Warden of the Stannaries. Special Stannary Courts for the administration of justice
amongst those connected with the mines are held in the two counties, and are each presided
over by a warden and a vice-warden. Up to 1752 representative assemblies of the miners, called
Stannary Parliaments, were held. Appeals from the Stannary Courts may be made now to the higher
courts of England.

STAR-CHAMBER, a court which originated in the reign of Edward III., and consisted practically
of the king's ordinary council, meeting in the Starred Chamber, and dealing with such cases
as fell outside the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery; was revived and remodelled by Henry
VII., and in an age when the ordinary courts were often intimidated by powerful offenders,
rendered excellent service to the cause of justice; was further developed and strengthened
during the chancellorship of Wolsey, and in the reign of James I. had acquired jurisdiction
as a criminal court over a great variety of misdemeanours--perjury, riots, conspiracy, high-treason,
&c. Already tending to an exercise of unconstitutional powers, it in the reign of Charles I.
became an instrument of the grossest tyranny, supporting the king in his absolutist claims,
and in 1641 was among the first of the many abuses swept away by the Long Parliament.

STARS, THE, are mostly suns, but being, the nearest of them, at a distance from us more than
500,000 times our distance from the sun, are of a size we cannot estimate, but are believed
to be 300 times larger than the earth; they are of unequal brightness, and are, according to
this standard, classified as of the first, second, down to the sixteenth magnitude; those visible
to the naked eye include stars from the first to the sixth magnitude, and number 3000, while
20,000,000 are visible by the telescope; of these in the MILKY WAY (q. v.) alone there are
18,000,000; they are distinguished by their colours as well as their brightness, being white,
orange, red, green, and blue according to their temperature and composition; they have from
ancient date been grouped into constellations of the northern and the southern hemispheres
and of the ZODIAC (q. v.), the stars in each of which being noted by the Greek letters, as
[Greek: alpha], [Greek: beta], according to their brightness; they all move more or less, and
some go round each other, and are called double according as there are two or more of them
so revolving; besides stars singly visible there are others called CLUSTERS OR NEBULÆ (q. v.).

STARS AND STRIPES, the flag of the United States, the stripes representing the original States
of the Union, and stars those annexed since.

STATEN ISLAND, 1, belonging to New York State (52), and comprising the county of Richmond;
is a picturesque island (14 m. long), 5 m. SW. of New York, separated from Long Island by the
Narrows and from New Jersey by the Kill van Kull and Staten Island Sound; pretty watering-villages
skirt its shores, and Forts Richmond and Wadsworth guard the entrance to the Narrows. 2, A
lofty, precipitous, and rugged island, snow-clad most of the year, belonging to Argentina,
lying to the SE. of Tierra del Fuego, from which it is separated by Le Maire Strait (40 m.).

STATES-GENERAL, name given to an assembly of the representatives of the three estates of nobles,
clergy, and bourgeoisie, or the Tiers État as it was called, in France prior to the Revolution
of 1789, and which was first convoked in 1302 by Philip IV.; they dealt chiefly with taxation,
and had no legislative power; they were convoked by Louis XIII. in 1614, and dismissed for
looking into finance, and not convoked again till the last time in 1789, for the history of
which see Carlyle's "French Revolution."

STATES-RIGHTS, doctrine of the contention of the Democrats in the United States that the several
States of the Union have all the rights, powers, and privileges not expressly made over to
the central government, and by extremists even the right of secession.

STATIONERS' HALL, the hall of the old Company of London Stationers, incorporated in 1557, who
enjoyed till the Copyright Act of 1842 the sole right of having registered at their offices
every pamphlet, book, and ballad published in the kingdom. Although no longer compulsory, the
practice of entering books at Stationers' Hall is still found useful for copyright purposes.
The register-rolls of books entered at Stationers' Hall have been carefully preserved, and
are of the highest value to the literary historian.

STATIONS OF THE CROSS, steps in the passage of Jesus from the judgment-hall to Calvary, or
representations of these, before each one of which the faithful are required to kneel and offer
up a prayer.

STATIUS, PUBLIUS PAPINIUS, a Latin poet, born in Naples; lived at Rome, flourished at court,
particularly that of Domitian, whom he flattered, but retired to his native place after defeat
in a competition; his chief work is the "Thebaïs," an epic in 12 books, embodying the legends
connected with the war against Thebes; he ranks first among the poets of the silver age; a
collection of short pieces of his named "Silvæ" have been often reprinted (61-96).

STAUBBACH (dust stream), a famous waterfall in Bern, near Lauterbrunnen, 8 m. S. of Interlaken,
with a sheer descent of 980 ft.; in the sunlight it has the appearance of a rainbow-hued transparent
veil, and before it reaches the ground it is dissipated in silvery spray.

STAUNTON, HOWARD, a famous chess-player; was an Oxford man, and led a busy life as a journalist
and miscellaneous writer in London; won the chess championship in 1843, and did much to extend
the scientific study of the game by various publications, "The Chess-Player's Handbook," &c.;
was also held in high repute as a Shakespearian scholar; published well-annotated editions
of Shakespeare's works and a facsimile of the first folio (1810-1874).

STAVANGER (24), a flourishing port of Norway, on a fiord on the SW. coast, 100 m. S. of Bergen;
is of modern aspect, having been largely rebuilt; has two excellent harbours, a fine 11th-century
Gothic cathedral, and is the centre of important coast fisheries.

STAVROPOL (657), a Russian government on the Caspian Sea, the inhabitants of which are chiefly
nomads and breed horses, with a capital of the same name (36) on a hill, a modern town and
a prosperous, both in manufacture and trade.

STEEL, SIR JOHN, sculptor, born at Aberdeen; studied at Edinburgh and Rome; made his mark in
1832 by a model of a statue, "Alexander and Bucephalus," and soon took rank with the foremost
and busiest sculptors of his day; his works are mostly to be found in Edinburgh, and include
the equestrian statue of Wellington, statues of Sir Walter Scott (in the Scott Monument), Professor
Wilson, Dr. Chalmers, Allan Ramsay, etc.; the splendid figure of Queen Victoria over the Royal
Institution gained him the appointment (1844) of sculptor to Her Majesty in Scotland, and on
the unveiling of his fine equestrian statue of Prince Albert in 1876 he was created a knight
(1804-1891).

STEELE, SIR RICHARD, a famous English essayist, born, the son of an attorney, in Dublin; educated
as a foundationer at the Charterhouse and at Oxford; enamoured of a soldier's life, enlisted
(1694) as a cadet in the Life Guards; in the following year received an ensigncy in the Coldstream
Guards, and continued in the army till 1706, by which time he had attained the rank of a captain;
a good deal of literary work was done during his soldiering, notably "The Christian Hero" and
several comedies; appointed Gazetteer (1707), and for some two years was in the private service
of the Prince Consort, George of Denmark; began in 1709 to issue the famous tri-weekly paper
the Tatler, in which, with little assistance, he played the part of social and literary censor
about town, couching his remarks in light and graceful essays, which constituted a fresh departure
in literature; largely aided by Addison, his old school companion, he developed this new form
of essay in the Spectator and Guardian; sat in Parliament as a zealous Whig, and in George
I.'s reign was knighted and received various minor court appointments; continued a busy writer
of pamphlets, &c., but withal mismanaged his affairs, and died in Wales, secured from actual
penury by the property of his second wife; as a writer shares with Addison the glory of the
Queen Anne Essay, which in their hands did much to purify, elevate, and refine the mind and
manners of the time (1671-1729).

STEEN, JAN, Dutch painter, born in Leyden; was a genre painter of the style of Rembrandt, and
his paintings display severity with sympathy and a playful humour; he is said to have led a
dissipated life, and to have left his wife and a large family in extreme destitution (1626-1679).

STEEVENS, GEORGE, commentator on Shakespeare, born at Stepney; in 1736 edited 20 of Shakespeare's
plays carefully reprinted from the original quartos, and in 1731 his notes with those of Johnson
in another edition; a further edition, with a number of gratuitous alterations of the text,
was issued by him in 1793, and that was the accepted one till the publication of Knight's in
1838 (1736-1800).

STEIN, BARON VON, Prussian statesman, born at Nassau; rose rapidly in the service of the State,
and became Prussian Prime Minister under William III. in 1807, in which capacity he effected
important changes in the constitution of the country to its lasting benefit, till Napoleon
procured his dismissal, and he withdrew to Austria, and at length to St. Petersburg, where
he was instrumental in turning the general tide against Napoleon (1757-1831).

STEIN, CHARLOTTE VON, a lady friend of Goethe's, born at Weimar; Goethe's affection for her
cooled on his return from Italy to see her so changed; she never forgave him for marrying a
woman beneath him; letters by Goethe to her were published in successive editions, but hers
to him were destroyed by her (1742-1827).

STEINMETZ, CARL FRIEDRICH VON, Prussian general, born at Eisenach; distinguished himself in
the war of 1813-1814, and inflicted crushing defeats on the Austrians in 1866; fell below his
reputation in the Franco-German War, and was deprived of his command after the battle of Gravelotte,
but was elected Governor-General of Posen and Silesia (1796-1877).

STEINTHAL, HEYMANN, German philologist, born at Gröbzig, in Anhalt; studied at Berlin, where
in 1863 he became professor of Comparative Philology, and in 1872 lecturer at the Jewish High
School on Old Testament Criticism and Theology; author of various learned and acute works on
the science of language; b. 1823.

STELLA, the name under which Swift has immortalised Hester Johnson, the story of whose life
is inseparably entwined with that of the great Dean; was the daughter of a lady-companion of
Lady Gifford, the sister of Sir William Temple, who, it is conjectured, was her father. Swift
first met her, a child of seven, when he assumed the duties of amanuensis to Sir William Temple
in 1688, and during his subsequent residence with Sir William (1696-1699) stood to her in the
progressive relationship of tutor, friend, and lover; but for some unaccountable reason it
would seem they never married, although their mutual affection and intimacy endured till her
death; to her was addressed, without thought of publication, the immortal "Journal to Stella,"
"the most faithful and fascinating diary the world has ever seen," which throws an invaluable
flood of light on the character of Swift, revealing unsuspected tendernesses and affections
in the great satirist (1681-1728).

STENCILLING, a cheap and simple process of printing on various surfaces letters or designs;
the characters are cut out in thin plates of metal or card-board, which are then laid on the
surface to be imprinted, and the colour, by means of a brush, rubbed through the cut spaces.

STENO, NICHOLAS, a noted anatomist, born at Copenhagen, where he studied medicine and kindred
sciences with great enthusiasm; became widely known in European medical circles by his important
investigations into the natural functions of glands (salivary and parotid), the heart, brain,
&c.; in 1667 became physician to the Grand-Duke of Tuscany, residing at Florence, where he
renounced Lutheranism for Catholicism; made valuable geological investigations, but finally
gave himself up to a religious life; was created a bishop, and in 1677 Vicar-Apostolic of North
Germany; chiefly remembered for his contributions to anatomical science (1638-1687).

STENTOR, a Grecian herald who accompanied the Greeks in the Trojan War, and whom Homer describes
as "the great-hearted, brazen-voiced Stentor, whose shout was as loud as that of fifty other
men," hence the epithet stentorian.

STEPHEN, king of England from 1135 to 1154, nephew of Henry I., his mother being Adela, daughter
of William I.; acquired French possessions through the favour of his uncle and by his marriage;
in 1127 swore fealty to his cousin Matilda, daughter of Henry I., as his future sovereign,
but on the death of his uncle usurped the throne, an action leading to a violent civil war,
which brought the country into a state of anarchy; the Scots invaded on behalf of Matilda,
but were beaten back at Northallerton (the Battle of the Standard, 1138); foreign mercenaries
introduced by the king only served to embitter the struggle; the clergy, despoiled by the king,
turned against him, and in the absence of a strong central authority the barons oppressed the
people and fought with one another; "Adulterine Castles" sprang up over the country, and "men
said openly that Christ and His saints were asleep"; in 1141 Matilda won the battle of Lincoln
and for a few months ruled the country, but "as much too harsh as Stephen was too lenient,"
she rapidly became unpopular, and Stephen was soon again in the ascendant; the successes of
Henry, son of Matilda, led in 1153 to the treaty of Wallingford, by which it was arranged that
Stephen should retain the crown for life, while Henry should be his heir; both joined in suppressing
the turbulent barons and the "Adulterine Castles"; more fortunately circumstanced, Stephen
had many qualities which might have made him a popular and successful king (1105-1154).

STEPHEN, the name of nine popes; S. I., Pope from 253 to 257, signalised by his zeal against
the heresies of his time; S. II., Pope from 752 to 757, in whose reign, under favour of Pepin
le Bref, began the temporal power of the Popes; S. III., Pope from 768 to 772, sanctioned the
worship of saints and images; S. IV., Pope from 816 to 817; S. V., Pope from 885 to 891, distinguished
for his charity; S. VI., Pope from 896 to 897, strangled after a reign of 18 months; S. VII.,
Pope from 829 to 831, entirely under the control of his mistresses; S. VIII., pope from 939
to 942; S. IX., Pope from 1057 to 1058, vigorously opposed the sale of benefices and the immorality
of the clergy.

STEPHEN, GEORGE, archæologist, born in Liverpool; settled in Sweden, and became professor of
English in Copenhagen; his great work entitled "Old Northern Runic Monuments of Scandinavia
and England"; b. 1813.

STEPHEN, JAMES, slavery abolitionist, born in Dorsetshire; held a post in the West Indies;
wrote "Slavery in the British West Indies," an able book; had sons more or less distinguished
in law and law practice (1759-1832).

STEPHEN, LESLIE, man of letters, born at Kensington, educated at Eton and Trinity Hall, Cambridge,
of which he became a Fellow; became editor of the Cornhill and of the first 26 volumes of the
"Dictionary of National Biography"; is the author of "Hours in a Library" and "History of English
Thought in the Eighteenth Century," books that have produced a deep impression; has also produced
several biographies, distinguished at once by accuracy, elegance, and critical acumen; b. 1832.

STEPHEN, ST., protomartyr of the Christian Church, who was (Acts vii.) stoned to death in A.D.
33; his death is a frequent subject of the old painters, the saint himself being less frequently
depicted, but when so he is represented usually in a deacon's dress, bearing a stone in one
hand and a palm-branch in the other, or both hands full of stones.

STEPHENS, JAMES, Fenian conspirator, born in Kilkenny; became "Head Centre," and zealous in
the Fenian cause both in Ireland and America; was arrested in Dublin, but escaped; found his
way to New York, but was deposed, and has sunk out of sight; b. 1824.

STEPHEN'S, ST., the Parliament House of Westminister, distinguished from St. James's, which
denotes the Court, as Downing Street does the Government.

STEPHENSON, GEORGE, inventor of the locomotive, born, the son of a poor colliery engineman,
at Wylam, near Newcastle; was early set to work, first as a cowherd and then as a turnip-hoer,
and by 15 was earning 12s. a week as fireman at Throckley Bridge Colliery, diligently the while
acquiring the elements of education; married at 21, and supplemented his wage as brakesman
at Killingworth Colliery by mending watches and shoes; in 1815 invented a safety-lamp for miners,
which brought him a public testimonial of £1000; while at Killingworth turned his attention
to the application of steam to machinery, and thus constructed his first locomotive in 1814
for the colliery tram-road; railway and locomotive construction now became the business of
his life; superintended the construction of the Stockton and Darlington Railway (1821-25),
the Liverpool and Manchester Railway (1826-29), over which he ran his locomotive the "Rocket"
at a maximum rate of 35 m. an hour; in the outburst of railway enterprise which now ensued
Stephenson's services were in requisition all over the country; became principal engineer on
many of the new railways; bought the country-seat of Tapton, near Chesterfield, to which he
retired for much-needed rest; a man of character, gentle and simple in his affections, strong
and purposeful in his labours, who, as he himself says, "fought for the locomotive single-handed
for nearly 20 years," and "put up with every rebuff, determined not to be put down" (1781-1848).

STEPHENSON, ROBERT, son of preceding, born at Willington Quay, was well educated at Newcastle,
and for a session at Edinburgh University; began in 1823 to assist his father, and from 1824
to 1827 fulfilled an engineering engagement in Colombia, South America; rendered valuable service
in the construction of the "Rocket," and as joint-engineer with his father of the London and
Birmingham line, was mainly responsible for its construction; turning his attention specially
to bridge-building he constructed the Britannia and Conway Tubular bridges, besides many others,
including those over the Nile, St. Lawrence, &c.; was returned to the House of Commons in 1847;
received the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour from the French emperor, and many other distinctions
at home and abroad; was buried in Westminster Abbey (1803-1859).

STEPNIAK, Russian Nihilist and apostle of freedom; exiled himself to England; author of "Underground
Russia" (1852-1895).

STEPPES, the name given to wide, treeless plains, barren except in spring, of the SE. of Russia
and SW. of Siberia.

STEREOSCOPE, a simple optical apparatus which, when two photographs of an object taken from
slightly different standpoints (so as to secure the appearance it presents to either eye singly)
are placed under its twin magnifying lenses, presents to the eyes of the looker a single picture
of the object standing out in natural relief.

STERLING, JOHN, a friend of Carlyle's, born at Kames Castle, Bute, son of Captain Sterling
of the Times; studied at Glasgow and Cambridge; a man of brilliant parts and a liberal-minded,
but of feeble health; had Julius Hare for tutor at Cambridge, and became Hare's curate at Hurstmonceaux
for eight months; wrote for reviews, and projected literary enterprises, but achieved nothing;
spent his later days moving from place to place hoping to prolong life; formed an acquaintanceship
with Carlyle in 1832; became an intelligent disciple, and believed in him to the last; Hare
edited his papers, and wrote his life as a clergyman, and Carlyle, dissatisfied, wrote another
on broader lines, and by so doing immortalised his memory (1806-1843).

STERN, DANIEL. See AGOULT.

STERNE, LAURENCE, English humourist, born at Clonmel, Ireland, son of Roger Sterne, captain
in the army; his mother an Irishwoman; was educated at Halifax and Cambridge, by-and-by took
orders, and received livings in Sutton and Shillington, became a prebend at York, and finally
got a living at Coxwold; in 1759 appeared the first two volumes of "Tristram Shandy," and in
1767 the last two; in 1768 his "Sentimental Journey," and in the interim his "Sermons," equally
characteristic of the man as the two former productions. Stopford Brooke says, "They have no
plot, they can scarcely be said to have any story. The story of 'Tristram Shandy' wanders like
a man in a labyrinth, and the humour is as labyrinthine as the story. It is carefully invented,
and whimsically subtle; and the sentiment is sometimes true, but mostly affected. But a certain
unity is given to the book by the admirable consistency of the characters," his masterpieces,
among which is "Uncle Toby"; the author died in London of pulmonary consumption (1713-1763).

STERNHOLD, THOMAS, principal author of the first English metrical version of the Psalms, originally
attached to the Prayer-Book as augmented by John Hopkins; continued in general use till Tate
and Brady's version of 1696 was substituted in 1717; was a Hampshire man, and held the post
of Groom of the Robes to Henry VIII. and Edward VI. (1500-1549).

STEROPES, one of the three CYCLOPS (q. v.).

STESICHORUS, a celebrated Greek lyric poet, born in Sicily; contemporary of Sappho, Aleacus,
and Pittacus; at his birth it is said a nightingale alighted on his lips and sang a sweet strain
(632-652 B.C.).

STETTIN (116), capital of Pomerania, and a flourishing river-port on both banks of the Oder,
30 m. from its entrance into the Baltic, and 60 m. NE. of Berlin; lies contiguous to, and is
continuous with, the smaller towns of Bredow, Grabow, and Züllchow; principal buildings are
the royal palace (16th century), the Gothic church of St. Peter (12th century), and St. James's
(14th century); is a busy hive of industry, turning out ships, cement, sugar, spirits, &c.,
and carrying on a large export and import trade.

STEUBEN, BARON VON, general in the American War of Independence, born in Magdeburg; originally
in the Prussian service under Frederick the Great, and had distinguished himself at the siege
of Prague and at Rossbach; emigrating to America at the end of the Seven Years' War he offered
his services, which were readily welcomed, and contributed to organise and discipline the army,
to the success of the revolution (1730-1794).

STEVENSON, ROBERT, an eminent Scottish engineer, born at Glasgow, the son of a West India merchant;
adopted the profession of his stepfather Thomas Smith, and in 1796 succeeded him as first engineer
to the Board of Northern Lighthouses, a position he held for 47 years, during which he planned
and erected as many as 23 lighthouses round the coasts of Scotland, his most noted erection
being that on the Bell Rock; introduced the catoptric system of illumination and other improvements;
was also much employed as a consulting engineer in connection with bridge, harbour, canal,
and railway construction (1772-1850).

STEVENSON, ROBERT LOUIS BALFOUR, novelist and essayist, grandson of the preceding, born at
Edinburgh, where in 1875 he was called to the bar, after disappointing his father by not following
the family vocation of engineering; had already begun to write for the magazines, and soon
abandoned law for the profession of letters, in which he rapidly came to the front; in 1878
appeared his first book, "An Inland Voyage," quickly followed by "Travels with a Donkey," "Virginibus
Puerisque," "Familiar Studies"; with "Treasure Island" (1883) found a wider public as a writer
of adventure and romance, and established himself permanently in the public favour with "Kidnapped"
(1886, most popular story), "The Master of Ballantrae," "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," &c.; his
versatility in letters was further revealed in his charming "A Child's Garden of Verse," "Ballads,"
"Memories and Portraits," and "A Footnote to History" (on Samoan politics); in 1890 failing
health induced him to make his home in the island of Samoa, where he died and is buried; "His
too short life," says Professor Saintsbury, "has left a fairly ample store of work, not always
quite equal, seldom quite without a flaw, but charming, stimulating, distinguished as few things
in this last quarter of a century have been" (1850-1894).

STEWARD, LORD HIGH, in early times the highest office of state in England, ranking in power
next to the sovereign; hereditary during many centuries, the office lapsed in the reign of
Henry IV., and since has been revived only on special occasions, e. g. a coronation, a trial
of a peer, at the termination of which the office is demitted, the Lord High Steward himself
breaking in two his wand of office.

STEWART, BALFOUR, physicist, born in Edinburgh; after finishing his university curriculum went
to Australia and engaged for some time in business; returned to England; became director at
Kew Observatory, and professor of Natural Philosophy at Owens College, Manchester; made discoveries
in radiant heat, and was one of the founders of SPECTRUM ANALYSIS (q. v.); published text-books
on physics, in wide repute (1828-1887).

STEWART, DUGALD, Scottish philosopher, born in Edinburgh, son of Matthew Stewart; attended
the High School and the University; studied one session at Glasgow under Dr. Reid; assisted
his father in conducting the mathematical classes in Edinburgh, and succeeded Adam Ferguson
in the Moral Philosophy chair in 1785, a post, the active duties of which he discharged with
signal success for twenty-five years, lecturing on a wide range of subjects connected with
metaphysics and the science of mind; he wrote "Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind,"
"Philosophical Essays," &c.; "His writings," says Carlyle, who held him in high veneration,
"are not a philosophy, but a making ready for one. He does not enter on the field to till it;
he only encompasses it with fences, invites cultivators, and drives away intruders; often (fallen
on evil days) he is reduced to long arguments with the passers-by to prove that it is a field,
that this so highly-prized domain of his is, in truth, soil and substance, not clouds and shadows.
(1753-1858).

STEWART, HOUSE OF. See STUART.

STEWART, MATTHEW, mathematician, born at Rothesay; bred for the Church, was for a time minister
of Roseneath, and succeeded Maclaurin as professor of Mathematics in Edinburgh in 1747; was
the author of a mathematical treatise or two, and the lifelong friend of Robert Simson (1717-1785).

STEYER (17), a manufacturing town of Upper Austria, at the junction of the Steyer and Enns,
20 m. NE. of St. Valentin; noted for its flourishing iron and steel manufactures, of which
it is the chief seat in Austria.

STHENO, one of the THREE GORGONS (q. v.).

STIELER, a celebrated German cartographer, born at Gotha; his atlases are deservedly held in
high esteem for their excellence (1775-1836).

STIER, RUDOLF EWALD, German theologian; was a devout student of the Bible as the very Word
of God, and is best known as the author of the "Words of the Lord Jesus" (1800-1862).

STIGAND, archbishop of Canterbury and favourite of Edward the Confessor, who advanced him to
the bishoprics of Elmham and Winchester and to the Primacy in 1052; his appointment was popularly
regarded as uncanonical, and neither Harold nor William the Conqueror allowed him to perform
the ceremony of coronation; through William's influence was by the Pope deprived of his office
and condemned to imprisonment.

STIGMATA, impressions of marks corresponding to certain wounds received by Christ at His crucifixion,
and which certain of the saints are said to have been supernaturally marked with in memory
of His. St. Francis in particular showed such marks.

STILICHO, a Roman general, son of a Vandal captain under the emperor Valens; on the death of
Theodosius I., under whom he served, became the ruler of the West, and by his military abilities
saved the Western Empire; defeated Alaric the Goth in a decisive battle and compelled him to
retire from Italy, as he did another horde of invading barbarians afterwards; aspired to be
master of the Roman empires, but was assassinated at Ravenna in 403.

STILL, JOHN, bishop of Bath and Wells, born at Grantham; rose in the Church through a succession
of preferments: is credited with the authorship of one of the oldest comedies in the English
language, "Gammer Gurton's Needle," turning on the loss and recovery by her of the needle with
which she was mending her goodman's breeches (1543-1607).

STILLING, JUNG, a German mystic; studied medicine at Strasburg, and when there became acquainted
with Goethe, who took a liking for him and remained his warm friend; settled as a physician
at Elberfeldt and became professor at Marburg and at Heidelberg; he was distinguished for his
skill in operations on the eye, and is said to have restored to sight without fee or reward
3000 poor blind persons; he is best known by his autobiography; Carlyle defines him as the
German "Dominie Sampson."

STILLINGFLEET, EDWARD, bishop of Worcester, born in Dorsetshire; was a scholarly man, wrote
on apologetics, in defence of the Church of England as a branch of the Church Catholic, in
support of the doctrine of the Trinity, and in advocacy of harmony in the Church; was an able
controversialist and a generous minded; was a handsome man, and popularly called the "Beauty
of holiness" (1635-1699).

STIPPLE, a mode of engraving by dots instead of lines, each dot when magnified showing a group
of small ones.

STIRLING, JAMES HUTCHISON, master in philosophy, born in Glasgow; bred to medicine and practised
for a time in South Wales; went to Germany to study the recent developments in philosophy there,
on his return to Scotland published, in 1863, his "Secret of Hegel: being the Hegelian System
in Origin, Principle, Form, and Matter," which has proved epoch-making, and has for motto the
words of Hegel, "The Hidden Secret of the Universe is powerless to resist the might of thought!
It must unclose before it, revealing to sight and bringing to enjoyment its riches and its
depths." It is the work of a master-mind, as every one must feel who tackles to the study of
it, and of one who has mastered the subject of it as not another in England, or perhaps even
in Germany, has done. The grip he takes of it is marvellous and his exposition trenchant and
clear. It was followed in 1881 by his "Text-book to Kant," an exposition which his "Secret"
presupposes, and which he advised the students of it to expect, that they might be able to
construe the entire Hegelian system from its root in Kant. It is not to the credit of his country
that Dr. Stirling has never been elected to a chair in any of her universities, though it is
understood that is due to the unenlightened state of mind of electoral bodies in regard to
the Hegelian system and the prejudice against it, particularly among the clergy of the Church.
He was, however, elected to be the first Gifford Lecturer in Edinburgh University, and his
admirers have had to content themselves with that modicum of acknowledgment at last. He is
the author of a critique on Sir William Hamilton's theory of perception, on Huxley's doctrine
of protoplasm, and on Darwinianism, besides a translation of SCHWEGLER'S "History of Philosophy,"
with notes, a highly serviceable work. His answer to Huxley is crushing. He is the avowed enemy
of the Aufklärung and of all knowledge that consists of mere Vorstellungen and does not grasp
the ideas which they present; b. 1820.

STIRLING, WILLIAM ALEXANDER, EARL OF, poet, born at Menstrie, near Alloa; was for a time tutor
to the family of Argyll; was the author of sonnets called "Aurora," some curious tragedies,
and an "Elegy on the Death of Prince Henry"; he was held in high honour by James VI. and followed
him to London, obtained a grant of Nova Scotia, and made Secretary of State for Scotland; he
has been ranked as a poet with Drummond of Hawthornden, who was his friend (1580-1640).

STIRLING-MAXWELL, See MAXWELL, STIRLING.

STIRLING (17), the county town of Stirlingshire, and one of the most ancient and historically-interesting
cities of Scotland; occupies a fine site on the Forth, 36 m. NW. of Edinburgh and 29 m. NE.
of Glasgow; most prominent feature is the rocky castle hill, rising at the westward end of
the town to a height of 420 feet, and crowned by the ancient castle, a favourite Stuart residence,
and associated with many stirring events in Scottish history, and utilised now as a garrison-station;
interesting also are "Argyll's Lodging," Greyfriars Church (Pointed Gothic of the 15th century),
the fine statue of Bruce, &c.; has manufactures of tartans, tweeds, carpets, &c., and a trade
in agricultural and mining products.

STIRLINGSHIRE (126), a midland county of Scotland, stretching E. and W. from Dumbarton (W.)
to the Forth (E.); between Lanark (S.) and Perth (N.) it forms the borderland between the Lowlands
and the Highlands; Loch Lomond skirts the western border, and on the northern Loch Katrine,
stretching into Perthshire; Ben Lomond and lesser heights rise in the NW.; main streams are
the Avon, Carron, Bannock, &c.; between Alloa and Stirling stretches the fertile and well-cultivated
plain, "The Carse of Stirling"; in the W. lies a portion of the great western coal-field, from
which coal and iron-stone are largely extracted; principal towns are STIRLING (q. v.), Falkirk,
and Kilsyth; interesting remains of Antoninus' Wall, from Forth to Clyde, still exist; within
its borders were fought the battles of Bannockburn, Sauchieburn, Stirling Bridge, Falkirk, &c.

STIRRUP CUP, a "parting cup" given by the Highlanders to guests when they are leaving and have
their feet in the stirrups.

STOBSÆUS, JOANNES, a native of Stobi, in Macedonia; flourished at the end of the 5th and beginning
of the 6th century; celebrated as the compiler (about 500 A.D.) of a Greek Anthology, through
which many valuable extracts are preserved to us from works which have since his day been lost.

STOCK EXCHANGE, a mart for the buying and selling of Government stocks, company shares, and
various securities, carried on usually by the members of an associated body of brokers having
certain rules and regulations. Such associations exist now in most of the important cities
of the United Kingdom and commercial world generally (on the Continent are known as Bourses).
The London Stock Exchange, transacting business in handsome buildings in Capel Court, facing
the Bank of England, was established in 1801, stock-exchange transactions previous to then
being carried on in a loose, ill-regulated fashion by private parties chiefly in and around
Change Alley, the scene of the memorable SOUTH SEA BUBBLE (q. v.) speculation. The great development
in stock-exchange business in recent times is due chiefly to the sale of foreign and colonial
bonds, and the remarkable growth and spread of joint-stock companies since the Joint-Stock
Company Act of 1862.

STOCKHOLM (246), capital of Sweden; occupies a charming site on the channel leading out of
Lake Mälar into a bay of the Baltic; stands partly on the mainland and partly on nine islands,
communication between which is facilitated by handsome bridges and a busy service of boats;
its wooded and rocky islands, crowned with handsome buildings, its winding waterways, peninsulas,
crowded wharves, and outlook over the isleted lake, combine to make it one of the most picturesque
cities of Europe; Town Island, the nucleus of the city, is occupied by the royal palace, House
of Nobles, principal wharf, &c., while on Knights' Island stand the Houses of Parliament, law-courts,
and other public buildings; Norrmalm, with the Academy of Science, National Museum, Academy
of Fine Arts, Hop Garden, &c., is the finest quarter of the city; manufactures embrace sugar,
tobacco, silks, linen, cotton, &c., besides which there are flourishing iron-works and a busy
export trade in iron and steel, oats, and tar, despite the hindrance caused by the ice during
three or four months in winter; founded in 1255 by Birger Jarl.

STOCKMAR, BARON DE, statesman, born at Coburg; bred to medicine, became physician to Leopold
I. of Belgium, and at length his adviser; was adviser also of Queen Victoria before her accession;
accompanied Prince Albert to Italy before his marriage, and joined him thereafter in England
as the trusted friend of both the queen and him; he had two political ideals--a united Germany
under Prussia, and unity of purpose between Germany and England (1757-1863).

STOCKPORT (70), a cotton town of East Cheshire; occupies a site on the slopes of a narrow gorge
overlooking the confluence of the Thame and Goyt (forming the Mersey), 37 m. E. of Liverpool;
a handsome viaduct spans the river; has an old grammar-school, free library, technical school,
&c.; during the present century has grown to be a busy centre of cotton manufactures, and has
besides flourishing iron and brass foundries, machine-shops, breweries, &c.

STOCKTON-ON-TEES (69), a prosperous manufacturing town and port of Durham, on the Tees, 4 m.
from its mouth; an iron bridge spanning the river connects it with Thornaby-on-Tees; has the
usual public buildings; steel and iron shipbuilding building, potteries, foundries, machine-shops
are flourishing industries; iron and earthenware are the chief exports, and with imports of
corn and timber give rise to a busy and increasing shipping, facilitated by the excellent river-way.

STOICS, the disciples of Zeno; derived their name from the stoa or portico in Athens where
their master taught and founded the school in 340 B.C. The doctrines of the school were completely
antagonistic to those of Epicurus, and among the disciples of it are to be reckoned some of
the noblest spirits of the heathen world immediately before and after the advent of Christ.
These appear to have been attracted to it by the character of its moral teachings, which were
of a high order indeed. The principle of morality was defined to be conformity to reason, and
the duty of man to lie in the subdual of all passion and a composed submission to the will
of the gods. It came short of Christian morality, as indeed all Greek philosophy did, in not
recognising the Divine significance and power of humility, and especially in its failure to
see, still more to conform to, the great doctrine of Christ which makes the salvation of a
man to depend on the interest he takes in, as well as in the fact of the salvation of, other
men. The Stoic was a proud man, and not a humble, and was content if he could only have his
own soul for a prey. He did not see--and no heathen ever did--that the salvation of one man
is impossible except in the salvation of other men, and that no man can save another unless
he descend into that other's case and stand, as it were, in that other's stead. It is the glory
of Christ that He was the first to feel Himself, and to reveal to others, the eternal validity
and divinity of this truth. The Stoic morality is selfish; the morality of Christ is brotherly.

STOKE-UPON-TRENT (24), chief seat of the "Potteries," in Staffordshire, on the Trent and the
Trent and Mersey Canal, 15 m. SE. of Crewe; is of modern growth, with free library, infirmary,
public baths, statue to Wedgwood, &c., and is busily engaged in the manufacture of all sorts
of porcelain ware, earthenware, encaustic tiles, &c., besides which there are flourishing iron-works,
machine-shops, coal-mines, &c.

STOKES, SIR GEORGE GABRIEL, mathematician and physicist, born in Skreen, co. Sligo; he is great
in the department of mathematical physics, and has been specially devoted to the study of hydro-dynamics
and the theory of light; has opened new fields of investigation, and supplied future experimenters
with valuable hints; he was one of the foremost physicists of the day; b. 1819.

STOLBERG, CHRISTIAN, COUNT, German poet of the Göttingen school, to which Bürger and Voss belonged,
born in Hamburg; was with his brother a friend of Goethe's, and held a civil appointment in
Holstein (1748-1821).

STOLBERG, FRIEDRICH LEOPOLD, COUNT OF, German poet, born in Holstein, brother of preceding;
held State appointments in Denmark; joined the Romish Church, and showed a religious and ascetic
temper (1750-1819).

STOLE, a long scarf worn by bishops and priests in the administration of the sacraments of
the Church, and sometimes when preaching, as well as in symbol of authority.

STONE AGE, the name given to that period in the history of civilisation when the weapons of
war and the chase and the implements of industry were made of stone, prior to employment for
these purposes of bronze, characteristic of the age succeeding.

STONE CIRCLES, circles of STANDING STONES (q. v.) found in various parts of Great Britain,
North Europe generally, and also, but of more recent origin, in North India; were certainly,
in the most of cases, set up to mark the circular boundary of a place of burial; erroneously
ascribed to the Druids; from the character of numerous cinerary urns exhumed, seem to have
belonged to the bronze age in Great Britain; most interesting are those of Stennis, in Orkney,
with a circumference of 340 ft., Avebury, in Wiltshire, and STONEHENGE (q. v.).

STONEHAVEN (4), fishing port and county town of Kincardineshire, situated at the entrance of
Carron Water (dividing the town) into South Bay, 16 m. SSW. of Aberdeen; has a small harbour,
and is chiefly engaged in herring and haddock fishing.

STONEHENGE, the greatest and best preserved of the STONE CIRCLES (q. v.) of Britain, situated
in Salisbury Plain, Wiltshire, 7 m. N. of Salisbury; "consists of two concentric circles, enclosing
two ellipses"; the diameter of the space enclosed is 100 ft.; the stones are from 13 ft. to
28 ft. high; is generally regarded as an exceptional development of the ordinary stone circle,
but the special purpose of its unusual construction is still a matter of uncertainty.

STONYHURST, a celebrated Roman Catholic college in East Lancashire, 10 m. N. of Blackburn;
established in 1794 by certain Jesuit fathers who, after the suppression of their seminary
at St. Omer, in France, by the Bourbons, took up their residence at Bruges and then at Liège,
but fled thence to England during the Revolution, and accepted the shelter offered them at
Stonyhurst by Mr. Weld of Lulworth; there are about 300 students, and upwards of 30 masters;
a preparatory school has been established at Hodder, a mile distant; in 1840 was affiliated
to the University of London, for the degrees of which its students are chiefly trained; retains
in its various institutions many marks of its French origin.

STOOL OF REPENTANCE, in Scotland in former times an elevated seat in a church on which for
offences against morality people did penance and suffered rebuke.

STORM, THEODORE WOLDSEN, German poet and exquisite story-teller, born in Sleswig; was a magistrate
and judge in Sleswig-Holstein (1817-1888).

STORM-AND-STRESS PERIOD, name given in the history of German literature to a period at the
close of the 18th century, when the nation began to assert its freedom from artificial literary
restraint, a period to which Goethe's "Goetz von Berlichingen" and Schiller's "Robbers" belong,
and the spirit of which characterises it; the representatives of the period were called Kraftmänner
(Power-men), who "with extreme animation railed against Fate in general, because it enthralled
free virtue, and with clenched hands or sounding shields hurled defiance towards the vault
of heaven."

STORMS, CAPE OF, name originally given in 1486 to the Cape of Good Hope by the Portuguese navigator
Bartholomew Dias.

STORNOWAY, a fishing-port, the capital of Lewis, and the chief town in the Outer Hebrides,
with Stornoway Castle adjoining.

STORTHING (i. e. great court), the national Parliament of Norway, composed of two chambers,
the Lagthing or Upper Chamber, and the Odelsthing or Lower.

STORY, JOSEPH, American jurist and judge, born in Massachusetts (1779-1845).

STORY, WILLIAM WETMORE, poet and sculptor, son of preceding; b. 1819.

STOTHARD, THOMAS, artistic designer and book illustrator, as well as painter, born in London,
son of an innkeeper; illustrated, among other works, "Pilgrim's Progress," and along with Turner,
Rogers' "Italy" (1755-1834).

STOURBRIDGE, manufacturing town in Worcestershire; its staple manufactures are glass and pottery.

STOW, JOHN, English antiquary, born in London; bred a tailor; took to antiquarian pursuits,
which he prosecuted with the zeal of a devotee that spared no sacrifice; wrote several works
on antiquities, the chief and most valuable being his "Survey of London and Westminster"; he
ended his days in poverty (1525-1605).

STOWELL, WILLIAM SCOTT, eminent English judge, born at Heworth, brother of Lord Eldon; famed
for his judicial decisions (1745-1836).

STRABO, ancient geographer, born at Amasia, in Pontus; flourished in the reign of Augustus,
and the early part of that of Tiberius; was a learned man, lived some years in Rome, and travelled
much in various countries; wrote a history of 43 books, all lost, and a work on geography,
in 17 books, which has come down to us entire all to the 7th; the work is in general not descriptive;
it comprehends principally important political events in connection with the countries visited,
with a notice of their illustrious men, or whatever seemed to him characteristic in them or
was of interest to himself; born about 63 B.C.

STRADDHA, the funeral rites and funeral offerings for the dead among the Hindus.

STRAFFORD, THOMAS WENTWORTH, EARL OF, English statesman, born in London, of an old Yorkshire
family; studied at Cambridge; after some months' travel on the Continent entered Parliament
in 1614, but took no active part in affairs till 1621; he took sides at first with the party
for freedom, but in 1622 felt compelled to side with the king, to his elevation of greater
and greater influence as his counsellor; his policy, named "Thorough," was to establish a strong
Government with the king at the head, and to put down with a strong hand all opposition to
the royal authority; appointed Lord-Deputy in Ireland in 1633, he did all he could to increase
the royal resources, and was at length, in 1640, exalted to the Lord-Lieutenancy, being at
the same time created Earl of Strafford; he had risen by this time to be the chief adviser
of the king, and was held responsible for his arbitrary policy; after the meeting of the Long
Parliament he was impeached for high treason; the impeachment seemed likely to fail, when a
Bill of Attainder was produced; to this the king refused his assent, but he had to yield to
the excitement his refusal produced, and as the result Strafford was beheaded on Tower Hill
(1593-1641).

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS (507, of which 150 are Chinese), British colony in the East Indies, embracing
the British possessions in the Malay Peninsula (on the Strait of Malacca), Singapore, Malacca,
Penang, and the Keeling Islands and Christmas Island; were under the jurisdiction of the Governor-General
of India till 1867, in which year they passed under the control of the Colonial Office at home.

STRALSUND (28), a fortified seaport of North Prussia, on Strela Sound, opposite the island
of Rügen, in the Baltic, and 66 m. NW. of Stettin, forms of itself an islet, and is connected
with the mainland (Pomerania) by bridges; is a quaint old town, dating back to the 13th century;
figures often in the wars of Prussia, and is now a place of considerable commercial importance.

STRANGFORD, PERCY C. S. SMYTHE, VISCOUNT, diplomatist; graduated at Trinity College, Dublin,
in 1800; entered the diplomatic service, and in the following year succeeded to the title;
was ambassador to Portugal, Sweden, Turkey, and Russia; translated the "Rimas" of Camoëns,
and was raised to the peerage (1825) as Baron Penshurst (1780-1855).

STRANGFORD, PERCY E. F. W. SMYTHE, son of preceding, diplomatist and noted philologist, born
at St. Petersburg; passed through Harrow and Oxford; entered the diplomatic service; became
attaché at Constantinople, and during the Crimean War served as Oriental Secretary, acquiring
the while a profound grip of the Eastern Question, and an unrivalled knowledge of European
and Asiatic languages--Turkish, Persian, Arabic, Slavonic, Afghan, Basque, &c.; succeeded to
the title in 1855, and henceforth resided chiefly in London; was President of the Asiatic Society,
and was considered by Freeman "our greatest English philologist"; author of various articles
on political, geographical, and philological subjects (1825-1869).

STRANRAER (6), a royal burgh and seaport of Wigtownshire, finely situated at the southern extremity
of Loch Ryan, 73 m. W. of Dumfries; has an interesting 16th-century castle, and a handsome
town-hall and court-house; there is some shipping in agricultural produce, and steamers ply
daily between Stranraer and Larne, in Ireland.

STRAPAROLA, GIOVANNI FRANCESCO, author of a famous collection of stories after the style of
Boccaccio's "Decameron," partly borrowed and partly genuine folk-stories, which ranks as an
Italian classic, and has been translated into various European languages; flourished in the
16th century.

STRAP, HUGH, a simple-hearted friend and adherent of Roderick Random in Smollett's novel of
that name.

STRAPPADO, an obsolete military punishment by drawing a culprit to the top of a beam and then
letting him drop the length of the rope.

STRASBURG (124), capital, since 1871, of Alsace-Lorraine, on the Ill, a few miles above its
confluence with the Rhine, 89 m. N. of Basel; a place of great strategical importance, and
a fortress of the first class; is a city of Roman origin, and contains a magnificent Gothic
cathedral (11th century) with a famous astronomical clock, an imperial palace, university,
&c.; manufactures embrace beer, leather, cutlery, jewellery, &c.; there is also a busy transit
trade; a free town of the German empire in the 13th century; fell into the hands of the French
in 1681, and was captured by the Germans, after a seven weeks' siege, on 28th September 1870,
after which it became finally German, as it was originally, by the peace of Frankfort, May 1871.

STRATFORD (40), manufacturing town in Essex, on the Lee, 4 m. NE. of London.

STRATFORD DE REDCLIFFE, SIR STAFFORD CANNING, FIRST VISCOUNT, a distinguished ambassador, born
in London, son of a well-connected merchant, and cousin to Canning the statesman; passed from
Cambridge to the Foreign Office in 1807 as a précis-writer to his cousin; in three years had
risen to the post of minister-plenipotentiary at Constantinople, where he speedily gave evidence
of his remarkable powers as a diplomatist by arranging unaided the treaty of Bucharest (1814)
between Russia and Turkey, and so setting free the Russian army to fall upon Napoleon, then
retreating from Moscow; as minister to Switzerland aided the Republic in drawing up its constitution,
and in the same year (1815) acted as commissioner at the Congress of Vienna; was subsequently
employed in the United States and various European capitals, but his unrivalled knowledge of
the Turkish question brought him again, in 1842, to Constantinople as ambassador, where his
remarkable power and influence over the Turks won him the title of "Great Elchi"; exerted in
vain his diplomatic skill to prevent the rupture between Turkey and Russia, which precipitated
the Crimean War; resigned his embassy in 1858; was raised to the peerage in 1852; sat in Parliament
for several years previous to 1842, but failed to make his mark as a debater; ranks among the
great ambassadors of England (1786-1880).

STRATFORD-ON-AVON (8), a pleasant old market-town of Warwickshire, on the right bank of the
Avon, 8 m. SW. of Warwick and 110 m. NW. of London; forever famous as the birth and burial
place of Shakespeare, with whom all that is of chief interest in the town is associated, the
house he was born in, his old school, Anne Hathaway's cottage on the outskirts, the fine Early
English church (14th century), where he lies buried, the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, museum,
&c.; is Visited annually by some 20,000 pilgrims; a thriving agricultural centre.

STRATHCLYDE or NORTHERN CUMBRIA, an ancient kingdom of the Britons, which originated in the
8th century, and comprised the W. side of Scotland between the Solway and the Clyde; Alclyde
or Dumbarton was the capital; was permanently annexed to Scotland in 1124 under David I.

STRATHFIELDSAYE, an estate in Hampshire with a fine Queen Anne mansion, 7 m. NE. of Basingstoke,
purchased by Parliament for £263,000, and presented to the Duke of Wellington in 1817.

STRATHMORE ("Great Valley"), the great plain of Scotland stretching for 100 m. (5 to 10 m.
broad), in a north-easterly direction from Dumbartonshire to Stonehaven, in Kincardineshire,
between the great mountain barrier of the Highlands, the Grampians, and the Southern Lennox,
Ochil, and Sidlaw Hills; in a more restricted sense denotes the plain between Perth and Brechin.

STRATHPEFFER, a watering-place in Ross and Cromarty, 5 m. W. of Dingwall, a great health-resort,
and much frequented on account of its mineral waters and bracing air and other attractions.

STRAUSS, DAVID FRIEDRICH, German theological and biblical critic, born at Ludwigsburg, in Würtemberg;
studied in the Theological Institute of Tübingen under Baur, was ordained in 1830, and went
in 1834 to Berlin to attend the lectures of Hegel and Schleiermacher, and returning to Tübingen
gave lectures on Hegel in 1832, he the while maturing his famous theory which, published in
1835, made his name known over the whole theological world; this was his "Leben Jesu," the
first volume of which appeared that year, in which he maintained that, while the life of Christ
had a historical basis, all the supernatural element in it and the accounts of it were simply
and purely mythical, and the fruit of the idea of His person as Divine which at the foundation
of the Christian religion took possession of the mind of the Church; the book proved epoch-making,
and the influence of it, whether as accepted or as rejected, affected, as it still does, the
whole theology of the Church; the effect of it was a shock to the whole Christian world, for
it seemed as if with the denial of the supernatural the whole Christian system fell to pieces;
and its author found the entire Christian world opposed to him, and he was cast out of the
service of the Church; this, however, did not daunt his ardour, for he never abandoned the
ground he had taken up; his last work was entitled "Der Alte und der Neue Glaube," in which
he openly repudiates the Christian religion, and assigns the sovereign authority in spiritual
matters to science and its handmaid art. In a spiritual reference the whole contention of Strauss
against Christianity is a tissue of irrelevancies, for the spirit of it, which is its life
and essence, is true whatever conclusion critics in their seraphic wisdom may come to regarding
the facts (1808-1874).

STRAUSS, JOHANN, musical composer, born at Vienna; was a musical conductor and composer, chiefly
of waltz music.

STREATHAM (48), a Surrey suburb of London, 6½ m. SW. of St. Paul's.

STREET, GEORGE EDMUND, architect, born in Essex; was the architect of the New Law Courts in
London; had been trained under Gilbert Scott (1824-1881).

STRELITZES, the name given to the life-guards of the czar, which at one time numbered 40,000;
became so unruly and dangerous to the State that they were dissolved by Peter the Great, and
dispersed in 1705.

STRETTON, HESBA, the nom de plume of Sarah Smith, daughter of a Shropshire bookseller, whose
semi-religious stories, chiefly for the young, have won wide acceptance in English homes since
the publication of "Jessica's First Prayer" in 1867; was a regular contributor to Household
Words and All the Year Round during Dickens's editorship; has written upwards of 40 volumes.

STRICKLAND, AGNES, biographer of the queens of England, born at Roydon Hall, near Southwold,
Suffolk; had already published poems and some minor works before she conceived the plan of
writing a series of biographies of the queens of England; these appeared in 12 vols. during
1840-1848, and such was their popularity that a similar work dealing with the queens of Scotland
was immediately undertaken; was aided in these by her sister Elizabeth (1794-1875); was the
author of various other works, "Lives of the Seven Bishops," "Bachelor Kings of England," &c.;
her writings are of no value as history, but are full of entertaining details (1806-1874).

STRINDBERG, AUGUST, the most noted of modern Swedish writers, born at Stockholm; accumulated
stores of valuable experience during various early employments, which he utilised in his first
successful work, "The Red Room" (1879), a satire on social life in Sweden, "The New Kingdom"
(1882), equally bitter in its attack on social conventions, got him into trouble, and since
then his life has been spent abroad; "Married Life," a collection of short stories, brought
upon him a charge of "outraging Christianity," but after trial at Stockholm, in which he eloquently
defended himself, he was acquitted; a prolific writer in all kinds of literature, and imbued
with modern scientific and socialistic ideas, his writings lack the repose necessary to the
highest literary achievement; b. 1849.

STROMBOLI, one of the Lipari Islands; has an active volcano, the cone 3022 ft., which erupts
every five minutes what happens to be little else than steam; it is 12 m. in circuit, and contains
about 1000 inhabitants.

STROMKARL, a Norwegian spirit who has 11 different music strains, to 10 of which people may
dance, the 11th being his night strain, to the tune of which every one and everything begins
to dance.

STROMNESS, a seaport on the Orkney island of Pomona.

STROUD (10), a busy manufacturing town of Gloucestershire; stands on rising ground overlooking
the confluence of the Frome and Slade, which unite to form the Frome or Stroud Water, 10 m.
SE. of Gloucester; numerous cloth and dye works are built along the banks of the river; in
the town are several woollen factories.

STRUCK JURY, a jury of men who possess special qualifications to judge of the facts of a case.

STRUENSEE, Danish statesman, bred to medicine; became minister of Charles VII., took advantage
of his imbecility and directed the affairs of government, roused the jealousy of the nobles,
and he was arrested, tried on false charges, and was beheaded (1737-1776).

STRUTT, JOSEPH, antiquary, born in Essex; wrote the "Regal and Ecclesiastical Antiquities of
England," followed by other works on the manners and customs of the English people, that on
their "Sports and Pastimes" the chief (1742-1802).

STRYPE, JOHN, historian and biographer, born in London; was a voluminous writer, wrote Lives
of eminent English Churchmen and upon the English Reformation (1643-1737).

STUART, ARABELLA, daughter of the Earl of Lennox, and, as descended from Margaret Tudor, heiress
to the English throne in default of James VI. of Scotland and his family, and towards whom
James all along cherished a jealous feeling, and who was subjected to persecution at his hands;
when she chose to marry contrary to his wish he confined her in the Tower, where she went mad
and died.

STUART DYNASTY, a dynasty of Scotch and finally English kings as well, commenced with Robert
II., who was the son of Marjory, Robert the Bruce's daughter, who married Walter, the Lord
High Steward of Scotland, hence the name, his successors being Robert III., James I., James
II., James III., James IV., and James V., Mary Queen of Scots, and James VI. in Scotland, and
ended with James II. of England, who was expelled from the throne for an obstinacy of temper
which characterised all the members of his house, "an unfortunate dynasty," too, being appointed
at length to rule at a time and over a people that thought kings were born for the country
and not the country for kings, a dictum which they stubbornly refused to concede, thinking
that the nation existed for them instead of them for the nation. The line became extinct by
the death of Cardinal York in 1807, who survived his brother Charles Edward 19 years.

STUART, GILBERT CHARLES, American portrait-painter, born at Narragansett, Rhode Island; was
taken up by a Scotch painter named Alexander, whom he accompanied to Edinburgh, but was set
adrift by the death of his patron, and for some years led a wandering life in America and London
till his great gift of portrait-painting was recognised; in 1792 returned to America, and there
painted portraits of Washington, Jefferson, and other noted Americans (1756-1828).

STUART, JOHN, Scottish antiquary; author of "The Sculptured Stones of Scotland," "The Book
of Deer," and frequent contributor to the Proceedings of the Scottish Society of Antiquaries;
held a post in the Register House for 24 years (1813-1877).

STUBBS, C. W., English clergyman, born in Liverpool; has held several incumbencies; is rector
at Wavertree, near Liverpool, and takes a great interest in the working-classes and in social
subjects; is liberal both in his political and in his theological opinions; has written on
questions of the day in a Christian reference; b. 1845.

STUBBS, WILLIAM, historian, born at Knaresborough; studied at Oxford; became a Fellow of Trinity
and of Oriel, professor of Modern History at Oxford, and finally bishop; was author of "Constitutional
History of England," an epoch-making book in three volumes, and editor of a collection of mediæval
Chronicles, with valuable prefaces accompanying; his writings are distinguished by their learning
and accuracy; b. 1825.

STUHLWEISSENBURG (25), an old historic Hungarian town, 42 m. SW. of Pesth; was for long the
residence of the Hungarian kings, in the cathedral of which they were crowned and buried.

STUKELEY, WILLIAM, antiquary, born at Holbeach, Lincolnshire; graduated in medicine at Cambridge,
and practised in London and elsewhere till 1729, when he took holy orders, and, after holding
livings at Stamford and Somerby, was presented in 1747 to the rectory of St George the Martyr
in London; maintained a lifelong interest in antiquarian research, and published many volumes
on British and Roman antiquities, in which he displays unflagging industry and an exuberant
fancifulness; "I have used his materials," says Gibbon, "and rejected most of his fanciful
conjectures"; his credulous works on the supposed Druidical remains at Stonehenge and elsewhere
gained him the title of the "Arch-Druid" (1687-1765).

STUMP ORATOR, one who is ready to take up any question of the day, usually a political one,
and harangue upon it from any platform offhand; the class, the whole merely a talking one,
form the subject, in a pretty wide reference, of one of Carlyle's scathing "Latter-Day Pamphlets."

STURM, JOHANN, educational reformer, born In Luxemburg; settled in Paris; established a school
there for dialectics and rhetoric for a time, but left it on account of his Protestantism for
Strasburg at the invitation of the civic authorities, and became rector of the gymnasium there,
which under him acquired such repute that the Emperor Maximilian constituted it a university
with him at the head; his adoption of the theological views of Zwingli in opposition to those
of Luther made him many enemies, and he was dismissed from office, but was allowed a pension;
he was a great student of Cicero; he wrote many works in Latin in a style so pure and elegant
that he was named the German Cicero (1507-1589).

STURM-UND-DRANG. See STORM-AND-STRESS.

STURT, CHARLES, a noted Australian explorer, and a captain in the army; during 1828-45 was
the determined leader of three important exploratory expeditions into Central Australia, the
results of which he embodied in two works; became colonial secretary of South Australia, but
failing health and eyesight led to his retirement, and he was pensioned by the first Parliament
of South Australia; he returned to England totally blind (1795-1869).

STUTTGART (140), capital of Würtemberg, stands amid beautiful vine-clad hills in a district
called the "Swabian Paradise," on an affluent of the Neckar, 127 m. SE. of Frankfort; is a
handsome city with several royal palaces, a 16th-century castle, interesting old churches,
a royal library (450,000 vols.), a splendid royal park, conservatory of music, picture gallery,
and various educational establishments; ranks next to Leipzig as a book mart, and has flourishing
manufactures of textiles, beer, pianofortes, chemicals, &c.

STYLITES. See PILLAR-SAINTS.

STYMPHALIAN BIRDS, fabulous birds with brazen claws, wings, and beaks, that used their feathers
as arrows, ate human flesh, and infested Arcadia; Hercules startled them with a rattle, and
with his arrows either shot them or drove them off.

STYRIA (1,281), a central duchy of Austria, stretching in a semicircle from Upper Austria and
Salzburg on the NW. to Croatia and Slavonia on the SE., and flanked by Hungary on the E.; a
mountainous region crossed by various eastern ranges of the Alpine system, and drained by the
Drave, Save, Inn, and other rivers; more than half lies under forest; agriculture flourishes,
but mineral products, iron, salt, coal, &c., constitute the chief wealth. The principal manufactures
are connected therewith; was joined to the Austrian crown in 1192.

STYX, name (from the Greek verb signifying "to abhor") of the principal river of the nether
world, which it flows sluggishly round seven times; is properly the river of death, which all
must cross to enter the unseen world, and of which, in the Greek mythology, Charon was the
ferryman. In their solemn engagements it was by this river the gods took oath to signify that
they would forego their godhood if they swore falsely. The Styx was a branch of the Great Ocean
which girds the universe. See OCEANUS.

SUAKIN or SAWAKIN (11), a seaport under Egyptian control, and since the Mahdi's revolt garrisoned
by the English, on the Nubian coast of the Red Sea; stands on a rocky islet, and is connected
with El Keff on the mainland by a causeway; is the starting-point of caravans to Berber and
Khartoum, and as such has a large transit trade, exporting silver ornaments, ivory, gums, hides,
gold, &c.; here African pilgrims to Mecca embark to the number of 6000 or 7000 annually.

SUAREZ, FRANCISCO, scholastic philosopher, born at Grenada; after joining the Jesuit body became
professor of Theology at Coimbra, attempted to reconcile realism with nominalism, and adopted
in theology a system called "Congruism," being a modification of Molinism; wrote a "Defence
of the Catholic Faith against the Errors of the Anglican Sect" at the instance of the Pope
against the claims of James I. in his oath of allegiance (1548-1617).

SUBAHDAR, a title given to governors of provinces in the times of the Mogul dynasty, now bestowed
upon native officers in the Indian army holding rank equivalent to an English captaincy.

SUBIACO (7), an ancient and interesting town of Central Italy; occupies a pleasant site amid
encircling hills on the Teverone, 32 m. E. by N. of Rome; has a quaint, mediæval appearance,
and is overlooked by an old castle, a former residence of the Popes; there are two Benedictine
monasteries dating from the 6th century, and in a grotto near St. Benedictine lived, in his
youth, a hermit life for three years.

SUBJECTIVE, THE, that, in contrast to objective, which rests on the sole authority of consciousness,
and has no higher warrant.

SUBJECTIVISM, the doctrine of the pure relativity of knowledge, or that it is purely subjective.

SUBLAPSARIANISM, same as INFRALAPSARIANISM (q. v.).

SUBLIMATION, the vaporisation of a solid body and its resumption thereafter of the solid form.

SUBLIME PORTE, a name given to the Ottoman Government, so called from a lofty gateway leading
into the residence of the Vizier.

SUBSTITUTION, in theology the doctrine that Christ in His obedience and death stood in the
place of the sinner, so that His merits on their faith in Him are imputed to them.

SUBTLE DOCTOR, name given to DUNS SCOTUS (q. v.) for his hairsplitting acuteness and extreme
subtlety of distinction.

SUCCESSION WARS, the general title of several European wars which arose in the 18th century
consequent on a failure of issue in certain royal lines, most important of which are (1) WAR
OF THE SPANISH SUCCESSION (1701-1713). The death (1700) of Charles II. of Spain without direct
issue caused Louis XIV. of France and the Emperor Leopold I. (the former married to the elder
sister of Charles, the latter to the younger sister, and both grandsons of Philip III. of Spain)
to put forth claims to the crown, the one on behalf of his grandson, Philip of Anjou, the other
for his second son, the Archduke Charles. War broke out on the entry of Philip into Madrid
and his assumption of the crown, England and the United Netherlands uniting with the emperor
to curb the ambition of Louis. During the long struggle the transcendent military genius of
Marlborough asserted itself in the great victories of Blenheim, Ramillies, and Oudenarde, but
the lukewarmness of England in the struggle, the political fall of Marlborough, and the Tory
vote for peace prevented the allies reaping the full benefit of their successes. The Treaty
of Utrecht (1713) left Philip in possession of his Spanish kingdom, but the condition was exacted
that the crowns of Spain and France should not be united. The emperor (the Archduke Charles
since 1711) attempted to carry on the struggle, but was forced to sign the Treaty of Rastadt
(1714), acknowledging Philip king of Spain. Spain, however, ceded her Netherlands Sardinia,
&c., to the emperor, while Gibraltar, Minorca, and parts of North America fell to England.
(2) WAR OF THE AUSTRIAN SUCCESSION (1740-1748) followed on the death (1740) of the Emperor
Charles VI. without male issue. His daughter, Maria Theresa, entered into possession of Bohemia,
Hungary, and the Archduchy of Austria, but was immediately attacked by the Elector Charles
Albert of Bavaria and Augustus of Saxony and Poland, both rival claimants for the imperial
crown, while Frederick II. of Prussia seized the opportunity of Maria's embarrassment to annex
Silesia. France, Spain, and England were drawn into the struggle, the last in support of Maria.
Success oscillated from side to side, but the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, which brought the
war to a close, left Maria pretty well in possession of her inheritance save the loss of Silesia
to Frederick.

SUCHET, LOUIS GABRIEL, DUC D'ALBUFERA, marshal of France, born in Lyons; distinguished himself
in Italy, Egypt, Austria, and Prussia, and became general in command in Aragon, by his success
in ruling which last he gained the marshal's baton and a dukedom; he rejoined Napoleon during
the Hundred Days; after Waterloo he lost his peerage, but recovered it in 1819 (1770-1826).

SUCKLING, SIR JOHN, poet, born, of good parentage, at Whitton, Middlesex; quitted Cambridge
in 1628 to travel on the Continent, and for a time served in the army of Gustavus Adolphus
in Germany; returning to England about 1632 he became a favourite at Court, where he was noted
for his wit, prodigality, and verses; supported Charles in the Bishops' Wars against the Scots;
sat in the Long Parliament; was involved in a plot to rescue Strafford, and to bring foreign
troops to the aid of the king, but discovered, had to flee the country; died, probably by his
own hand, in Paris; wrote several forgotten plays, a prose treatise on "Religion by Reason,"
and miscellaneous poems, amongst which are his charming songs and ballads, his title to fame
(1609-1642).

SUDARIUM, the handkerchief given by ST. VERONICA (q. v.) to Christ as He was passing to crucifixion,
and on which His face was miraculously impressed as He wiped the sweat off it.

SUDBURY (7), a borough of Suffolk, on the Stour, where it crosses the Essex border, 58 m. NE.
of London; has three old churches (Perpendicular style), a grammar-school founded in the 15th
century, a corn-exchange, &c.; manufactures embrace cocoa-nut matting, silk, &c.

SUDETIC MOUNTAINS stretch in irregular broken masses and subsidiary chains for 120 m. across
South-East Germany, separating Bohemia and Moravia from Saxony and Prussian Silesia, and forming
a link between the Carpathians and mountains of Franconia; highest and central position is
known as the RIESENGEBIRGE (q. v.); Schneekoppe is the culminating point of the range.

SUDRAS, the fourth and lowest of the HINDU CASTES (q. v.); are by some alleged to be of the
aboriginal race of India who to retain their freedom adopted Brahmanism.

SUE, MARIE-JOSEPH-EUGÈNE, a writer of sensational novels, born at Paris; was for some years
an army surgeon, and served in the Spanish campaign of 1823; his father's death (1829) bringing
him a handsome fortune, he retired from the army to devote himself to literature; his reputation
as a writer rests mainly on his well-known works "The Mysteries of Paris" (1842) and "The Wandering
Jew" (1845), which, displaying little skill on the artistic side, yet rivet their readers'
attention by a wealth of exciting incident and plot; was elected to the Chamber of Deputies
in 1850, but the coup d'état of 1852 drove him an exile to Annecy, in Savoy, where he died
(1804-1859).

SUETONIUS, TRANQUILLUS, Roman historian; practised as an advocate in Rome in the reign of Trajan;
was a friend of the Younger Pliny, became private secretary to Hadrian, but was deprived of
this post through an indiscretion; wrote several works, and of those extant the chief is the
"Lives of the Twelve Cæsars," beginning with Julius Cæsar and ending with Domitian, a work
which relates a great number of anecdotes illustrating the characters of the emperors; b. A.D. 70.

SUEZ (13), a town of Egypt, stands at the edge of the desert at the head of a gulf of the same
name and at the S. end of the Suez Canal, 75 m. E. of Cairo, with which it is connected by
railway; as a trading place, dating back to the times of the Ptolemies, has had a fluctuating
prosperity, but since the completion of the canal is growing steadily in importance; is still
for the most part an ill-built and ill-kept town; has a large English hospital and ship-stores.

SUEZ CANAL, a great artificial channel cutting the isthmus of Suez, and thus forming a waterway
between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea; was planned and undertaken by the French engineer
Lesseps, through whose untiring efforts a company was formed and the necessary capital raised;
occupied 10 years in the construction (1859-69), and cost some 20 million pounds; from Port
Said on the Mediterranean to Suez at the head of the Red Sea the length is about 100 m., a
portion of which lies through Lakes Menzaleh, Ballah, Timsah, and the Bitter Lakes; as widened
and deepened in 1886 it has a minimum depth of 28 ft., and varies from 150 to 300 ft. in width;
traffic is facilitated by electric light during the night, and the passage occupies little
more than 24 hours; has been neutralised and exempted from blockade, vessels of all nations
in peace or war being free to pass through; now the highway to India and the East, shortening
the voyage to India by 7600 m.; three-fourths of the ships passing through are English; an
annual toll is drawn of close on three million pounds, the net profit of which falls to be
divided amongst the shareholders, of whom since 1875 the British Government has been one of
the largest.

SUFFOLK (371), eastmost county of England, fronts the North Sea between Norfolk (N.) and Essex
(S.); is a pleasant undulating county with pretty woods and eastward-flowing streams (Waveney,
Aide, Orwell, Stour, &c.); long tracts of heathland skirt the coast; agriculture is still the
staple industry, wheat the principal crop; is famed for its antiquities, architecture, historic
associations, and long list of worthies. Ipswich is the county town.

SUFFREN, BAILLI DE, a celebrated French admiral, who entered the navy a boy of 14 during the
wars with England, and rose to be one of his country's greatest naval heroes, especially distinguishing
himself as commander of a squadron in the West Indies, proving himself a master of naval tactics
in more or less successful engagements with the English; is regarded by Professor Laughton
as "the most illustrious officer that has ever held command in the French navy"; sprang from
good Provence stock (1729-1788).

SUFISM, the doctrine of the Sufis, a sect of Mohammedan mystics; imported into Mohammedanism
the idea that the soul is the subject of ecstasies of Divine inspiration in virtue of its direct
emanation from the Deity, and this in the teeth of the fundamental article of the Mohammedan
creed, which exalts God as a being passing all comprehension and ruling it by a law which is
equally mysterious, which we have only to obey; this doctrine is associated with the idea that
the body is the soul's prison, and death the return of it to its original home, a doctrine
of the dervish fraternity, of which the Madhi is high-priest.

SUGER, ABBÉ, abbot of St. Denis, minister of Louis VI. and Louis VII.; reformed the discipline
in his abbey, emancipated the serfs connected with it, maintained the authority of the king
against the great vassals; he was regent of the kingdom during the second Crusade, and earned
the title of Father of his Country; he wrote a Life of Louis VI. (1082-1152).

SUIDAS, name of a grammarian and lexicographer of the 10th or 11th century; his "Lexicon" is
a kind of encyclopædic work, and is valuable chiefly for the extracts it contains from ancient
writers.

SUIR, a river of Ireland which rises in Tipperary and joins the Barrow after a course of 100 m.

SUKKUR (29), a town on the Indus (here spanned by a fine bridge), 28 m. SE. of Shikarpur; has
rail communication with Kurrachee and Afghanistan, and considerable trade in various textiles,
opium, saltpetre, sugar, &c.; 1 m. distant is Old Sukkur; the island of Bukkur, in the river-channel
and affording support to the bridge, is occupied and fortified by the British.

SULEIMAN PASHA, a distinguished Turkish general, born in Roumelia; entered the army in 1854,
fought in various wars, became director of the Military Academy at Constantinople; distinguished
himself in the Servian War of 1876, and was elected governor of Bosnia and Herzegovina; during
the Russian-Turkish War made a gallant attempt to clear the enemy from the Shipka Pass, but
as commander of the Danube army was defeated near Philippopolis (1878), and subsequently court-martialled
and sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment, but was pardoned by the sultan (1838-1883).

SULIMAN or SULEIMAN MOUNTAINS, a bare and rugged range, stretching N. and S. for upwards of
350 m. from the Kyber Pass almost to the Arabian Sea, and forming the boundary between Afghanistan
and the Punjab, India.

SULIOTES, a Græco-Albanian race who in the 17th century, to escape their Turkish oppressors,
fled from their old settlement in Epirus to the mountains of Suli, in South Albania, where
they prospered in the following century in independence; driven out by the Turks in 1803, they
emigrated to the Ionian Islands; came to the aid of Ali Pasha against the sultan in 1820, but,
defeated and scattered, found refuge in Cephalonia, and later gave valuable assistance to the
Greeks in their struggle for independence. The treaty of 1829 left their district of Suli in
the hands of the Turks, and since then they have dwelt among the Greeks, many of them holding
high government rank.

SULLA, LUCIUS CORNELIUS, a Roman of patrician birth; leader of the aristocratic party in Rome,
and the rival of Marius (q. v.), under whom he got his first lessons in war; rose to distinction
in arms afterwards, and during his absence the popular party gained the ascendency, and Marius,
who had been banished, was recalled; the blood of his friends had been shed in torrents, and
himself proscribed; on the death of Marius he returned with his army, glutted his vengeance
by the sacrifice of thousands of the opposite faction, celebrated his victory by a triumph
of unprecedented splendour, and caused himself to be proclaimed Dictator 81 B.C.; he ruled
with absolute power two years after, and then resigning his dictatorship retired into private
life; d. 76 B.C. at the age of 60.

SULLAN PROSCRIPTIONS, sentences of proscription issued by Sulla against Roman citizens in 81
B.C. under his dictatorship.

SULLIVAN, SIR ARTHUR SEYMOUR, English composer, born in London; won the Mendelssohn scholarship
at the Royal Academy of Music, and by means of it completed his musical education at Leipzig;
in 1862 composed incidental music for "The Tempest," well received at the Crystal Palace; since
then has been a prolific writer of all kinds of music, ranging from hymns and oratorios to
popular songs and comic operas; his oratorios include "The Prodigal Son" (1868), "The Light
of the World," "The Golden Legend," &c., but it is as a writer of light and tuneful operas
(librettos by W. S. GILBERT, q. v.) that he is best known; these began with "Cox and Box" (1866),
and include "Trial by Jury," "The Sorcerer" (1877), "Pinafore," "Patience" (1881), "Mikado"
(1885), &c., in all of which he displays great gifts as a melodist, and wonderful resource
in clever piquant orchestration; received the Legion of Honour in 1878, and was knighted in
1883; b. 1842.

SULLIVAN'S ISLAND, a long and narrow island, a favourite sea-bathing resort, on the N. of the
entrance to Charleston Harbour, South Carolina, U.S.

SULLY, MAXIMILIEN DE BÉTHUNE, DUKE OF, celebrated minister of Henry IV. of France, born at
the Château of Rosny, near Mantes, whence he was known at first as the Baron de Rosny; at first
a ward of Henry IV. of Navarre, he joined the Huguenot ranks along with him, and distinguished
himself at Coutras and Ivry, and approved of Henry's policy in changing his colours on his
accession to the throne, remaining ever after by his side as most trusted adviser, directing
the finances of the country with economy, and encouraging the peasantry in the cultivation
of the soil; used to say, "Labourage et pasteurage, voilà les deux mamelles dont La France
est alimentée, les vraies mines et trésors de Pérou," "Tillage and cattle-tending are the two
paps whence France sucks nourishment; these are the true mines and treasures of Peru;" on the
death of the king he retired from court, and occupied his leisure in writing his celebrated
"Memoirs," which, while they show the author to be a great statesman, give no very pleasant
idea of his character (1560-1611).

SULLY-PRUDHOMME, French poet, born in Paris; published a volume of poems in 1865 entitled "Stances
and Poèmes," which commanded instant regard, and have been succeeded by others which have deepened
the impression, and entitled him to the highest rank as a poet; they give evidence of a serious
mind occupied with serious problems; was elected to the Academy in 1881; b. 1839.

SULPICIUS SEVERUS, an ecclesiastical historian, born in Aquitaine; wrote a "Historia Sacra,"
and a Life of St. Martin (363-406).

SULTAN, the title of a Mohammedan sovereign, Sultana being the feminine form.

SULU ISLANDS (75), an archipelago of 162 islands in Asiatic waters, lying to the NE. of Borneo,
and extending to the Philippines; belongs to the Spaniards who, in 1876, subdued the piratical
Malay inhabitants; the trade in pearls and edible nests is mainly carried on by Chinese.

SUMATRA (3,572, including adjacent islands), after Borneo the largest of the East Indian islands,
stretches SE. across the Equator between the Malay Peninsula (from whose SW. coast it is separated
by the Strait of Malacca) to Java (Strait of Sunda separating them); has an extreme length
of 1115 m., and an area more than three times that of England; is mountainous, volcanic, covered
in central parts by virgin forest, abounds in rivers and lakes, and possesses an exceptionally
rich flora and peculiar fauna; rainfall is abundant; some gold and coal are worked, but the
chief products are rice, sugar, coffee, tobacco, petroleum, pepper, &c.; the island is mainly
under Dutch control, but much of the unexplored centre is still in the hands of savage tribes
who have waged continual warfare with their European invaders. Padang (150) is the official
Dutch capital.

SUMBAWA (150), one of the Sunda Islands, lying between Lombok (W.) and Flores (E.); mountainous
and dangerously volcanic; yields rice, tobacco, cotton, &c.; is divided among four native rulers
under Dutch authority.

SUMNER, CHARLES, American statesman and abolitionist, born in Boston; graduated at Harvard
(1830), and was called to the bar in 1834, but found a more congenial sphere in writing and
lecturing; during 1837-40 pursued his favourite study of jurisprudence in France, Germany,
and England; was brought into public notice by his 4th of July oration (1845) on "The True
Grandeur of Nations," an eloquent condemnation of war; became an uncompromising opponent of
the slave-trade; was one of the founders of the Free Soil Party, and in 1851 was elected to
the National Senate, a position he held until the close of his life, and where he did much
by his eloquent speeches to prepare the way for emancipation, and afterwards to win for the
blacks the rights of citizenship (1811-1874).

SUMNER, JOHN BIRD, archbishop of Canterbury; rose by a succession of preferments to the Primacy,
an office which he discharged with discretion and moderation (1780-1862).

SUMPTUARY LAWS, passed in various lands and ages to restrict excess in dress, food, and luxuries
generally; are to be found in the codes of Solon, Julius Cæsar, and other ancient rulers; Charles
VI. of France restricted dinners to one soup and two other dishes; appear at various times
in English statutes down to the 16th century against the use of "costly meats," furs, silks,
&c., by those unable to afford them; were issued by the Scottish Parliament against the extravagance
of ladies in the matter of dress to relieve "the puir gentlemen their husbands and fathers";
were repealed in England in the reign of James I.; at no time were they carefully observed.

SUMTER, FORT, a fort on a shoal in Charleston harbour, 3½ m. from the town; occupied by Major
Anderson with 80 men and 62 guns in the interest of the secession of South Carolina from the
Union, and the attack on which by General Beauregard on 12th April 1861 was the commencement
of the Civil War; it held out against attack and bombardment till the month of July following.

SUN, THE, is a star; is the centre of the solar system, as it is in consequence called, is
a globe consisting of a mass of vapour at white heat, and of such enormous size that it is
500 times larger than all the planets of the system put together, or of a bulk one million
and a half times greater than the earth, from which it is ninety-two and a half million miles
distant; the bright surface of it is called the photosphere, and this brightness is diversified
with brighter spots called faculæ, and dark ones called sun-spots, and by watching which latter
as they move over the sun's disk we find it takes 25 days to revolve on its axis, and by means
of SPECTRUM ANALYSIS (q. v.) find it is composed of hydrogen and a number of vaporised metals.

SUNDA ISLANDS, a name sometimes applied to the long chain of islands stretching SE. from the
Malay Peninsula to North Australia, including Sumatra, Timor, &c., but more correctly designates
the islands Bali, Lombok, Sumbawa, Flores, Sandalwood Island, &c., which lie between Java and
Timor, are under Dutch suzerainty, and produce the usual East Indian products. See various
islands named.

SUNDERBUNDS or SUNDARBANS, a great tract of jungle, swamp, and alluvial plain, forming the
lower portion of the Ganges delta; extends from the Hooghly on the W. to the Meghna on the
E., a distance of 165 m.; rice is cultivated on the upper part by a sparse population; the
lower part forms a dense belt of wild jungle reaching to the sea, and is infested by numerous
tigers, leopards, rhinoceroses, pythons, cobras, &c.

SUNDERLAND (142), a flourishing seaport of Durham, situated at the mouth of the Wear, 12 m.
SE. of Newcastle-upon-Tyne; embraces some very old parishes, but as a commercial town has entirely
developed within the present century, and is of quite modern appearance, with the usual public
buildings; owes its prosperity mainly to neighbouring coal-fields, the product of which it
exports in great quantities; has four large docks covering 50 acres; also famous iron shipbuilding
yards, large iron-works, glass and bottle works, roperies, &c.

SUNDERLAND, CHARLES SPENCER, THIRD EARL, son of succeeding, and son in law of the Duke of Marlborough;
was a Secretary of State in Queen Anne's reign during 1706-1710, and in the following reign,
as leader of the Whigs, exercised unbounded influence over George I.; narrowly escaped, chiefly
through Walpole's help, being found guilty of accepting heavy bribes from the South Sea Company;
lost office, and was displaying his father's propensity to underhand scheming by intriguing
with the Tories and the Pretender's party when death cut short his career (1675-1722).

SUNDERLAND, ROBERT SPENCER, SECOND EARL OF, an English statesman prominent in the reign of
Charles II., James II., and William III.; was for some years engaged in embassies abroad before
being appointed Secretary of State in 1679; adroit and insinuating, and with great capacity
for business, he soon became a leading minister; attached himself to the Duchess of Portsmouth,
and in the corrupt politics of the two Stuart kings played his own hand with consummate if
unscrupulous skill, standing high in King James's favour as Prime Minister, although he had
formerly intrigued in favour of Monmouth; supported the Exclusion Bill, and even then was in
secret communication with the Prince of Orange; after the Revolution rose to high office under
William; was instrumental in bringing the Whigs into power, and during 1695-1697 was acknowledged
head of his Government (1640-1702).

SUNNITES, the orthodox Mohammedans, a name given to them because they accept the Sunna, i.
e. traditional teaching of the Prophet, as of the same authority as the Korân, in the matter
of both faith and morals, agreeably to a fundamental article of Mohammedanism, that not only
the rule of life, but the interpretation of it, is of divine dictation.

SUN-WORSHIP, the worship of the sun is conceived of as an impersonation of the deity, that
originated among races so far advanced in civilisation as to recognise what they owed to its
benignant influence, in particular as tillers of the soil, and, is associated with advance
as the worship of Bacchus was, which could not originate prior to cultivation of the vine.

SUONADA, the Inland Sea of Japan, separating Kyushu and Shikoku from the Main Island, Honshiu,
a fine sheet of water (250 m. by 50), picturesquely studded with islands which, however, render
navigation difficult.

SUPEREROGATION, WORKS OF, name given in the Roman Catholic theology to works or good deeds
performed by saints over and above what is required for their own salvation, and the merit
of which is held to be transferable to others in need of indulgence.

SUPER-GRAMMATICAM (above grammar), name given to Sigismund, emperor of Germany, from his rejoinder
to a cardinal who one day on a high occasion mildly corrected a grammatical mistake he had
made in a grand oration, "I am King of the Romans, and above grammar."

SUPERIOR, LAKE, largest fresh-water lake on the globe, lies between the United States and Canada,
the boundary line passing through the centre; area, 31,200 sq. m., almost the size of Ireland;
maximum depth, 1008 ft.; St. Mary's River, the only outlet, a short rapid stream, carries the
overflow to Lake Huron; receives upwards of 200 rivers, but none of first-class importance,
largest is the St. Louis; is dotted with numerous islands; water is singularly clear and pure,
and abounds with fish; navigation is hindered in winter by shore-ice, but the lake never freezes
over.

SUPRALAPSARIANISM, the doctrine of the extreme Calvinists, that the decree of God as regards
the eternal salvation of some and the eternal reprobation of others is unconditional.

SUPREMACY, ROYAL, the supremacy of the sovereign in matters ecclesiastical and matters of civil
right to the exclusion of matters spiritual and the jurisdiction in the former claimed by the Pope.

SURABAYA (127), a seaport on the NE. coast or Java, is the head-quarters of the Dutch military,
and exports tropical products; of the population 6000 are European, and 7000 or so Chinese.

SURAT (109), a city of India, Bombay Presidency, on the Tapti, 14 m. from its entrance into
the Gulf of Bombay; stretches along the S. bank of the river, presenting no architectural features
of interest save some Mohammedan, Parsee, and Hindu temples, and an old castle or fortress;
chief exports are cotton and grain; the English erected here their first factory on the Indian
continent in 1612, and with Portuguese and Dutch traders added, it became one of the principal
commercial centres of India; in the 18th century the removal of the English East India Company
to Bombay drew off a considerable portion of the trade of Surat, which it has never recovered.

SURINAM. See GUIANA, DUTCH.

SURPLICE, a linen robe with wide sleeves worn by officiating clergymen and choristers, originating
in the rochet or alb of early times.

SURREY (1,731), an inland county, and one of the fairest of England, in the SE. between Kent
(E.) and Hampshire (W.), with Sussex on the S., separated from Middlesex on the N. by the Thames;
the North Downs traverse the county E. and W., slope gently to the Thames, and precipitously
in the S. to the level Weald; generally presents a beautiful prospect of hill and heatherland
adorned with splendid woods; the Wey and the Mole are the principal streams; hops are extensively
grown round Farnham; largest town is Croydon; the county town, Guildford.

SURREY, HENRY HOWARD, EARL OF, poet, son of the Duke of Norfolk; early attached to the court
of Henry VIII., he attended his royal master at the "Field of the Cloth of Gold," and took
part in the coronation ceremony of Anne Boleyn (1533); was created a Knight of the Garter in
1542, and two years later led the English army in France with varying success; imprisoned along
with his father on a charge of high treason, for which there was no adequate evidence, he was
condemned and executed; as one of the early leaders of the poetic renaissance, and introducer
of the sonnet and originator of blank verse, he deservedly holds a high place in the history
of English literature (1516-1547).

SURYA, in the Hindu mythology the sun conceived of as a female deity.

SUSA (the Shushan of Daniel, Esther, &c.), an ancient city of Persia, now in ruins, that spread
over an area of 3 sq. m., on the Kerkha, 250 m. SE. of Bagdad; was for long the favourite residence
of the Persian kings, the ruins of whose famous palace, described in Esther, are still extant.

SUSAN, ST., the patron saint and guardian of innocence and saviour from infamy and reproach.
See SUSANNA.

SUSANNA, THE HISTORY OF, a story in the Apocrypha, evidently conceived to glorify Daniel as
a judge, and which appears to have been originally written by a Jew in Greek. She had been
accused of adultery by two of the elders and condemned to death, but was acquitted on Daniel's
examination of her accusers to their confusion and condemnation to death in her stead. The
story has been allegorised by the Church, and Susanna made to represent the Church, and the
two elders her persecutors.

SUSQUEHANNA, a river of America, formed by the junction at Northumberland, Pennsylvania, of
the North Branch (350 m.) flowing out of Schuyler Lake, central New York, and the West Branch
(250 m.) rising in the Alleghany Mountains; flows in a shallow, rapid, unnavigable course S.
and SE. through beautiful scenery to Port Deposit, at the N. end of Chesapeake Bay; length, 150 m.

SUSSEX (550), a S. maritime county of England, fronts the English Channel between Hampshire
(W.) and Kent (E.), with Surrey on its northern border; is traversed E. and W. by the South
Downs, which afford splendid pasturage for half a million sheep, and terminates in Beachy Head;
in the N. lies the wide, fertile, and richly-wooded plain of the Weald; chief rivers are the
Arun, Adur, Ouse, and Rother, of no great size; is a fine agricultural county, more than two-thirds
of its area being under cultivation; was the scene of Cæsar's landing (55 B.C.), of Ælla's,
the leader of the South Saxons (whence the name Sussex), and of William the Conqueror's (1066);
throughout the country are interesting antiquities; largest town, Brighton; county town, Lewes.

SUTHERLAND (22), a maritime county of N. Scotland; presents a N. and a W. shore to the Atlantic,
between Ross and Cromarty (S.) and Caithness (E.), and faces the North Sea on the SE., whence
the land slopes upwards to the great mountain region and wild, precipitous loch-indented coasts
of the W. and N.; scarcely 3 per cent, of the area is cultivated, but large numbers of sheep
and cattle are raised; the Oykell is the longest (35 m.) of many streams, and Loch Shin the
largest of 300 lochs; there are extensive deer forests and grouse moors, while valuable salmon
and herring fisheries exist round the coasts; is the most sparsely populated county in Scotland.
Dornoch is the county town.

SUTLEJ, the eastmost of the five rivers of the Punjab; its head-waters flow from two Thibetan
lakes at an elevation of 15,200 ft., whence it turns NW. and W. to break through a wild gorge
of the Himalayas, thence bends to the SW., forms the eastern boundary of the Punjab, and joins
the Indus at Mithankot after a course of 900 m.

SUTRAS, name given to a collection of aphorisms, summaries of the teachings of the Brahmans,
and of rules regulative of ritual or religious observances, and also given to these aphorisms
and rules themselves.

SUTTEE, a Hindu widow who immolates herself on the funeral pile of her husband, a term applied
to the practice itself. The practice was of very ancient date, but the custom was proclaimed
illegal in 1829 under Lord William Bentinck's administration, and it is now very seldom that
a widow seeks to violate the law. In 1823, in Bengal alone, 575 widows gave themselves to be
so burned, of whom 109 were above sixty, 226 above forty, 209 above twenty, and 32 under twenty.

SUWARROW or SUVOROFF, Russian field-marshal, born at Moscow; entered the army as a private
soldier, distinguished himself in the Seven Years' War, and after 20 years' service rose to
command; in command of a division he in 1773 routed an army of the Turks beyond the Danube,
and in 1783 he reduced a tribe of Tartars under the Russian yoke; his greatest exploit perhaps
was his storming of Ismail, which had resisted all attempts to reduce it for seven months,
and which he, but with revolting barbarities however, in three days succeeded by an indiscriminate
massacre of 40,000 of the inhabitants; his despatch thereafter to Queen Catharine was "Glory
to God and the Empress, Ismail is ours!" he after this conducted a cruel campaign in Poland,
which ended in its partition, and a campaign in Italy to the disaster of the French and his
elevation to the peerage as a prince, with the title of Italinski; he was all along the agent
of the ruthless purposes of POTEMKIN (q. v.) (1730-1800).

SVEABORG, a strong fortress in Finland, protecting Helsingfors, in the Baltic, 3 m. distant
from that town, and called the "Gibraltar of the North."

SVIR, a Russian river that flows into Lake Ladoga.

SWABIA, an ancient duchy in the SW. of Germany, and most fertile part, so called from the Suevi,
who in the 1st century displaced the aboriginal Celts, and which, along with Bavaria, formed
the nucleus of the Fatherland; was separated by the Rhine from France and Switzerland, having
for capital Augsburg, and being divided now into Würtemberg, Bavaria, Baden, and Lichtenstein.

SWAHILI (i. e. coast people), a people of mixed Bantu and Arab stock occupying Zanzibar and
the adjoining territory from nearly Mombasa to Mozambique; they are an enterprising race, and
are dispersed as traders, hunters, carriers, &c., far and wide over Central Africa.

SWALE, a river in the North Riding of Yorkshire, uniting, after a course of 60 miles, with
the Ure to form the Ouse.

SWAMMERDAM, JAN, a Dutch entomologist, born at Amsterdam, where he settled as a doctor, but
turning with enthusiasm to the study of insect life, made important contributions to, and practically
laid the foundations of, entomological science (1637-1680).

SWAN OF AVON, sweet name given by Ben Jonson to Shakespeare.

SWAN OF MANTUA, name given to Virgil, as born at Mantua.

SWANSEA (90), a flourishing and progressive seaport of Glamorganshire, at the entrance of the
Tawe, 45 m. into Swansea Bay; has a splendid harbour, 60 acres of docks, a castle, old grammar-school,
&c.; is the chief seat of the copper-smelting and of the tin-plate manufacture of England,
and exports the products of these works, as well as coal, zinc, and other minerals, in large
quantities.

SWATOW (30), a seaport of China, at the mouth of the Han, 225 m. E. of Canton; has large sugar-refineries,
factories for bean-cake and grass-cloth; since the policy of "the open door" was adopted in
1867 has had a growing export trade.

SWAZILAND (64), a small South African native State to the E. of the Transvaal, of which in
1893 it became a dependency, retaining, however, its own laws and native chief; is mountainous,
fertile, and rich in minerals; the Swazis are of Zulu stock, jealous of the Boers, and friendly
to Britain.

SWEATING SICKNESS, an epidemic of extraordinary malignity which swept over Europe, and especially
England, in the 15th and 16th centuries, attacking with equal virulence all classes and all
ages, and carrying off enormous numbers of people; was characterised by a sharp sudden seizure,
high fever, followed by a foetid perspiration; first appeared in England in 1485, and for the
last time in 1551.

SWEATING SYSTEM, a term which began to be used about 1848 to describe an iniquitous system
of sub-contracting in the tailoring trade. Orders from master-tailors were undertaken by sub-contractors,
who themselves farmed the work out to needy workers, who made the articles in their own crowded
and foetid homes, receiving "starvation wages." The term is now used in reference to all trades
in cases where the conditions imposed by masters tend to grind the rate of payment down to
a bare living wage and to subject the workers to insanitary surroundings by overcrowding, &c.,
and to unduly long hours. Kingsley's pamphlet, "Cheap Clothes and Nasty," and novel, "Alton
Locke," did much to draw public attention to the evil. In 1890 an elaborate report by a committee
of the House of Lords was published, and led in the following year to the passing of the Factory
and Workshops Act and the Public Health Act, which have greatly mitigated the evil.

SWEDEN (4,785), a kingdom of Northern Europe, occupying the eastern portion of the great Scandinavian
Peninsula, bounded W. by Norway, E. by Russian Finland, Gulf of Bothnia, and the Baltic, and
on the N. stretches across the Arctic circle between Norway (NW.) and Russia (NE.), while its
southern serrated shores are washed by the Skager-Rack, Cattegat, and Baltic. From the mountain-barrier
of Norway the country slopes down in broad terrace-like plains to the sea, intersected by many
useful rivers and diversified by numerous lakes, of which Lakes Wenner, Wetter, and Mälar (properly
an arm of the sea) are the largest, and lying under forest to the extent of nearly one-half
its area; is divided into three great divisions: 1, Norrland in the N., a wide and wild tract
of mountainous country, thickly forested, infested by the wolf, bear, and lynx, in summer the
home of the wood-cutter, and sparsely inhabited by Lapps. 2, Svealand or Sweden proper occupies
the centre, and is the region of the great lakes and of the principal mineral wealth (iron,
copper, &c.) of the country. 3, Gothland, the southern portion, embraces the fertile plains
sloping to the Cattegat, and is the chief agricultural district, besides possessing iron and
coal. Climate is fairly dry, with a warm summer and long cold winter. Agriculture (potatoes,
grain, rye, beet), although scarcely 8 per cent. of the land is under cultivation, is the principal
industry, and with dairy-farming, stock-raising, &c., gives employment to more than one-half
of the people; mining and timber-felling are only less important; chief industries are iron-works,
sugar-refineries, cotton-mills, &c.; principal exports timber (much the largest), iron, steel,
butter, &c., while textiles and dry-goods are the chiefly needed imports. Transit is greatly
facilitated by the numerous canals and by the rivers and lakes. Railways and telegraphs are
well developed in proportion to the population. As in Norway, the national religion is Lutheranism;
education is free and compulsory. Government is vested in the king, who with the advice of
a council controls the executive, and two legislative chambers which have equal powers, but
the members of the one are elected for nine years by provincial councils, while those of the
other are elected by the suffrages of the people, receive salaries, and sit only for three
years. The national debt amounts to 14½ million pounds. In the 14th century the country became
an appanage of the Danish crown, and continued as such until freedom was again won in the 16th
century by the patriot king, Gustavus Vasa. By the 17th century had extended her rule across
the seas into certain portions of the empire, but selling these in the beginning of the 18th
century, fell from her rank as a first-rate power. In 1814 Norway was annexed, and the two
countries, each enjoying complete autonomy, are now united under one crown.

SWEDENBORG, EMMANUEL, a mystic of the mystics, founder of the "New Church," born at Stockholm,
son of a bishop, a boy of extraordinary gifts and natural seriousness of mind; carefully educated
under his father, attended the university of Upsala and took his degree in philosophy in 1709;
in eager quest of knowledge visited England, Holland, France, and Germany; on his return, after
four years, was at 28 appointed by Charles XII. assessor of the Royal College of Mines; in
1721 went to examine the mines and smelting-works of Europe; from 1716 spent 30 years in the
composition and publication of scientific works, when of a sudden he threw himself into theology;
in 1743 his period of illumination began, and the publication of voluminous theological treatises;
the Swedish clergy interfered a little with the publication of his works, but he kept the friendship
of people in power. This is Emerson's account in brief of his outer man, but for a glimpse
or two of his ways of thinking and his views the reader is referred to Emerson's "Representative
Men." The man was a seer; what he saw only himself could tell, and only those could see, he
would say, who had the power of transporting themselves into the same spiritual centre; to
him the only real world was the spirit-world and the world of sense only in so far as it reflected
to the soul the great invisible (1688-1772).

SWEDENBORGIANS, the members of the "New Jerusalem Church," founded on the teaching of EMMANUEL
SWEDENBORG (q. v.) on a belief in direct communion with the world of spirits, and in God as
properly incarnate in the divine humanity of Christ.

SWEDISH NIGHTINGALE, name popularly given to JENNY LIND (q. v.).

SWERGA or SVARGA, the summit of Mount Meru, the Hindu Olympus, the heaven or abode of INDRA
(q. v.) and of the gods in general.

SWETCHINE, MADAME, a Russian lady, Sophie Soymanof, born at Moscow, who married General Swetchine,
and, after turning Catholic, became celebrated in Paris during 1817-51 as the gracious hostess
of a salon where much religious and ethical discussion went on; plain and unimposing in appearance,
she yet exercised a remarkable fascination over her "coterie" by the elevation of her character
and eager spiritual nature (1782-1857).

SWIFT, JONATHAN, born at Dublin, a posthumous son, of well-connected parents; educated at Kilkenny,
where he had Congreve for companion, and at Trinity College, Dublin, where he was a somewhat
riotous and a by no means studious undergraduate, only receiving his B.A. by "special grace"
in 1686; two years later the Revolution drove him to England; became amanuensis to his mother's
distinguished relative Sir William Temple, whose service, however, was uncongenial to his proud
independent nature, and after taking a Master's degree at Oxford he returned to Dublin, took
orders, and was presented to the canonry of Kilroot, near Belfast; the quiet of country life
palling upon him, he was glad to resume secretarial service in Temple's household (1696), where
during the next three years he remained, mastering the craft of politics, reading enormously,
and falling in love with STELLA (q. v.); was set adrift by Temple's death in 1699, but shortly
afterwards became secretary to Lord Berkeley, one of the Lord-Deputies to Ireland, and was
soon settled in the vicarage of Laracor, West Meath; in 1704 appeared anonymously his famous
satires, the "Battle of the Books" and the "Tale of a Tub," masterpieces of English prose;
various squibs and pamphlets followed, "On the Inconvenience of Abolishing Christianity," &c.;
but politics more and more engaged his attention; and neglected by the Whigs and hating their
war policy, he turned Tory, attacked with deadly effect, during his editorship of the Examiner
(1710-11), the war party and its leader Marlborough; crushed Steele's defence in his "Public
Spirit of the Whigs," and after the publication of "The Conduct of the Allies" stood easily
the foremost political writer of his time; disappointed of an English bishopric, in 1713 reluctantly
accepted the deanery of St. Patrick's, Dublin, a position he held until the close of his life;
became loved in the country he despised by eloquently voicing the wrongs of Ireland in a series
of tracts, "Drapier's Letters," &c., fruitful of good results; crowned his great reputation
by the publication (1726) of his masterpiece "Gulliver's Travels," the most daring, savage,
and amusing satire contained in the world's literature; "Stella's" death and the slow progress
of a brain disease, ending in insanity, cast an ever-deepening gloom over his later years (1667-1745).

SWILLY, LOUGH, a narrow inlet of the Atlantic, on the coast of Donegal, North Ireland, running
in between Dunaff Head (E.) and Fanad Point (W.), a distance of 25 m.; is from 3 to 4 m. broad;
the entrance is fortified.

SWINBURNE, ALGERNON CHARLES, poet and prose writer, born in London, son of Admiral Swinburne;
educated at Balliol College, Oxford, went to Florence and spent some time there; his first
productions were plays, two of them tragedies, and "Poems and Ballads," his later "A Song of
Italy," essay on "William Blake," and "Songs before Sunrise," instinct with pantheistic and
republican ideas, besides "Studies in Song," "Studies in Prose and Poetry," &c.; he ranks as
the successor of Landor, of whom he is a great admirer, stands high both as a poet and a critic,
and is a man of broad and generous sympathies; his admirers regard it as a reproach to his
generation that due honour is not paid by it to his genius; b. 1837.

SWINDON (32), a town in Wiltshire, 77 m. W. of London; contains the Great Western Company's
engineering works, which cover 200 acres, and employ 10,000 hands.

SWINEMÜNDE (9), a fortified seaport on the island of Usedom, in the Baltic, near the mouth
of the Swine, one of the outlets of the Oder.

SWISS CONFEDERATION, a league of the several Swiss cantons to resist an attempt on the part
of the Emperor Albrecht to incorporate certain of the free towns into his family possessions.

SWISS GUARDS. See GARDES SUISSES.

SWITHIN, ST., bishop of Winchester from 852 to 862; was buried by his own request in Winchester
Churchyard, "where passers-by might tread above his head, and the dews of heaven fall on his
grave." On his canonisation, a century after, the chapter resolved to remove his body to a
shrine in the cathedral, but their purpose was hindered on account of a rain which lasted 40
days from the 15th July; hence the popular notion that if it rained that day it would be followed
by rain for 40 days after.

SWITZERLAND (2,918), a republic of Central Europe, bounded by Germany (N.), France (W.), Italy
(S.), and Austria and Germany (E.); in size is slightly more than one-half of Scotland, of
semicircular shape, having the Jura Alps on its French border, and divided from Italy by the
great central ranges of the Alpine system, whence radiate the Swiss Alps--Pennine, Lepontine,
Bernese, &c.--covering the E. and S., and occupying with intervening valleys two-thirds of
the country; the remaining third is occupied by an elevated fertile plain, extending between
Lakes of Constance and Geneva (largest of numerous lakes), and studded with picturesque hills;
principal rivers are the Upper Rhône, the Aar, Ticino, and Inn; climate varies with the elevation,
from the high regions of perpetual snow to warm valleys where ripen the vine, fig, almond,
and olive; about one-third of the land surface is under forest, and one quarter arable, the
grain grown forming only one-half of what is required; flourishing dairy farms exist, prospered
by the fine meadows and mountain pastures which, together with the forests, comprise the country's
greatest wealth; minerals are exceedingly scarce, coal being entirely absent. Despite its restricted
arable area and lack of minerals the country has attained a high pitch of prosperity through
the thrift and energy of its people, who have skilfully utilised the inexhaustible motive-power
of innumerable waterfalls and mountain streams to drive great factories of silks, cottons,
watches, and jewellery. The beauty of its mountain, lake, and river scenery has long made Switzerland
the sanatorium and recreation ground of Europe; more than 500 health resorts exist, and the
country has been described as one vast hotel. The Alpine barriers are crossed by splendid roads
and railways, the great tunnels through St. Gothard and the Simplon being triumphs of engineering
skill and enterprise. In 1848, after the suppression of the SONDERBUND (q. v.), the existing
league of 22 semi-independent States (constituting since 1798 the Helvetic Republic) formed
a closer federal union, and a constitution (amended in 1874) was drawn up conserving as far
as possible the distinctive laws of the cantons and local institutions of their communes. The
President is elected annually by the Federal Assembly (which consists of two chambers constituting
the legislative power), and is assisted in the executive government by a Federal Council of
seven members. By an institution known as the "Referendum" all legislative acts passed in the
Cantonal or Federal Assemblies may under certain conditions be referred to the mass of the
electors, and this is frequently done. The public debt amounts to over two million pounds.
The national army is maintained by conscription; 71 per cent. of the people speak German, 22
per cent. French, and 5 per cent. Italian; 59 per cent. are Protestants, and 41 per cent. Catholics.
Education is splendidly organised, free, and compulsory; there are five universities, and many
fine technical schools.

SYBARIS, an ancient city of Magna Græcia, on the Gulf of Tarentum, flourished in the 17th century
B.C., but in 510 B.C. was captured and totally obliterated by the rival colonists of Crotona;
at the height of its prosperity the luxury and voluptuousness of the inhabitants was such as
to become a byword throughout the ancient world, and henceforth a Sybaris city is a city of
luxurious indulgence, and Sybarite a devotee of pleasure.

SYBEL, HEINRICH VON, German historian, born at Düsseldorf; was a pupil of RANKE'S (q. v.),
and became professor of History at Münich and Bonn; he was a Liberal in politics; his great
works are a "History of the Period of the French Revolution from 1789 to 1795, and then to
1800," in five volumes, and the "History of the Founding of the German Empire under William
I.," in five volumes; he has also written a "History of the First Crusade" (1817-1895).

SYCORAX, a hag in the "Tempest," the dam of Caliban.

SYDENHAM, a district of Kent and suburb of London, to the SE. of which it lies 7 m., includes
the Surrey parish of Lambeth, where in 1852-54 the Crystal Palace was erected and still stands,
a far-famed sight of London, containing valuable collections illustrative of the arts and sciences,
and surrounded by a magnificent park and gardens.

SYDENHAM, FLOYER, Greek scholar; translated some of the Dialogues of Plato into English, and
wrote a dissertation on Heraclitus, which failed of being appreciated, and involved in embarrassment,
he was thrown into prison because he could not pay a small bill for provisions, and there died;
his sad fate led to the foundation of the Literary Fund (1710-1787).

SYDENHAM, THOMAS, the "English Hippocrates," born in Dorsetshire, educated at Oxford, and a
Fellow of All Souls'; practised medicine in London, where, though regarded with disfavour by
the faculty, he stood in high regard, and had an extensive practice, from his study of the
symptoms of disease, and the respect he paid to the constitution of the patient; he used his
own sense and judgment in each case, and his treatment was uniformly successful; he commanded
the regard of his contemporaries Locke and Boyle, and his memory was revered by such experts
as Boerhaave, Stahl, Pinel, and Haller; he ranks as a great reformer in the healing art (1624-1689).

SYDNEY (488), the capital of New South Wales, the oldest city in Australia, and one of the
first in the world, on the S. shore of the basin of Port Jackson; and the entrance of a magnificent,
almost land-locked, harbour for shipping of the largest tonnage; the situation of the city
is superb, and it is surrounded by the richest scenery; the shores of the basin are covered
with luxuriant vegetation, studded with islands and indented with pretty bays; it is well paved,
has broad streets, and some fine buildings, the principal being the university, the two cathedrals,
the post-office, and the town hall. It is a commercial rather than a manufacturing city, though
its resources for manufacture are considerable, for it is in the centre of a large coal-field,
in connection with which manufacturing industries may yet develop.

SYDNEY, ALGERNON. See SIDNEY, ALGERNON.

SYLLOGISM, an argument consisting of three propositions, of which two are called premises,
major and minor, and the one that necessarily follows from them the conclusion.

SYLPHS, elemental spirits of the air, as salamanders, are of fire, of light figure with gliding
movements and procreative power.

SYLVESTER, ST., the name of three popes: S. I., Pope from 314 to 335; S. II., Pope from 999
to 1003, alleged, from his recondite knowledge as an alchemist, to have been in league with
the devil; and S. III., Anti-Pope from 1041 to 1046.

SYLVESTER, ST., the first Pope of the name, said to have converted Constantine and his mother
by restoring a dead ox to life which a magician for a trial of skill killed, but could not
restore to life; is usually represented by an ox lying beside him, and sometimes in baptizing
Constantine.

SYMBOLISM has been divided into two kinds, symbolism of colour and symbolism of form. Of colours,
BLACK typifies grief and death; BLUE, hope, love of divine works, divine contemplation, piety,
sincerity; PALE BLUE, power, Christian prudence, love of good works, serene conscience; GOLD,
glory and power; GREEN, faith, immortality, resurrection, gladness; PALE GREEN, baptism; GREY,
tribulation; PURPLE, justice, royalty; RED, martyrdom for faith, charity, divine love; ROSE-COLOUR,
martyrdom; SAFFRON, confessors; SCARLET, fervour and glory; SILVER, chastity and purity; VIOLET,
penitence; WHITE, purity, temperance, innocence, chastity, and faith in God. Instances of form:
ANCHOR typifies hope; PALM, victory; SWORD, death or martyrdom; the LAMB, christ; UNICORN,
purity. Of stones, moreover, the AMETHYST typifies humility; DIAMOND, invulnerable faith; SARDONYX,
sincerity; SAPPHIRE, hope, &c.

SYME, JAMES, a great surgeon, born in Edinburgh; was demonstrator under Liston; was elected
to the chair of Clinical Surgery in 1833; gave up the chair to succeed Liston in London in
1848, but returned a few months after; was re-elected to the chair he had vacated; he was much
honoured by his pupils, and by none more than Dr. John Brown, who characterised him as "the
best, ablest, and most beneficent of men"; he wrote treatises and papers on surgery (1799-1870).

SYMONDS, JOHN ADDINGTON, English man of letters, born at Bristol; educated at Harrow and Oxford;
author of "The Renaissance in Italy," a work which shows an extensive knowledge of the subject,
and is written in a finished but rather flowery style, and a number of other works of a kindred
nature showing equal ability and literary skill; his translation of Benvenuto Cellini's autobiography
is particularly noteworthy; was consumptive, and spent his later years at Davos, in the Engadine
(1840-1893).

SYMPHLAGADES, two fabulous floating rocks at the entrance of the Euxine, which, when driven
by the winds, crushed every vessel that attempted to pass between them; the ship ARGO (q. v.)
managed to pass between them, but with the loss of part of her stern, after which they became
fixed.

SYMPHONY, an elaborate orchestral composition consisting usually of four contrasted and related
movements; began to take distinctive shape in the 17th century, and was for long merely a form
of overture to operas, &c., but as its possibilities were perceived was elevated into an independent
concert-piece, and as such exercised the genius of Mozart and Haydn, reaching its perfection
of form in the symphonies of Beethoven.

SYNAGOGUE, a Jewish institution for worship and religious instruction which dates from the
period of the Babylonian Captivity, specially to keep alive in the minds of the people a knowledge
of the law. The decree ordaining it required the families of a district to meet twice every
Sabbath for this purpose, and so religiously did the Jewish people observe it that it continues
a characteristic ordinance of Judaism to this day. The study of the law became henceforth their
one vocation, and the synagogue was instituted both to instruct them in it and to remind them
of the purpose of their separate existence among the nations of the earth. High as the Temple
and its service still stood in the esteem of every Jew, from the period of the Captivity it
began to be felt of secondary importance to the synagogue and its service. With the erection
and extension of the latter the people were being slowly trained into a truer sense of the
nature of religious worship, and gradually made to feel that to know the will of God and do
it was a more genuine act of homage to Him than the offering of sacrifices upon an altar or
the observance of any religious rite. Under such training the issue between the Jew and the
Samaritan became of less and less consequence, and he and not the Samaritan was on the pathway
which led direct to the final worship of God in spirit and in truth (John iv. 22).

SYNAGOGUE, THE GREAT, the name given to a council at Jerusalem, consisting of 120 members,
there assembled about the year 410 B.C. to give final form to the service and worship of the
Jewish Church. A Jewish tradition says Moses received the law from Sinai; he transmitted it
to Joshua, Joshua to the elders, the elders to the prophets, to the men of the Great Assembly,
who added thereto these words: "Be circumspect in judgment, make many disciples, and set a
hedge about the law." To them belong the final settlement and arrangement of the Jewish Scriptures,
the introduction of a new alphabet, the regulation of the synagogue worship, and the adoption
of sundry liturgical forms, as well as the establishment of the FEAST OF PURIM (q. v.), and
probably the "schools" of the Scribes.

SYNCRETISM, name given to an attempted blending of different, more or less antagonist, speculative
or religious systems into one, such as Catholic and Protestant or Lutheran and Reformed.

SYNDICATE, in commercial parlance is a name given to a number of capitalists associated together
for the purpose of carrying through some important business scheme, usually having in view
the controlling and raising of prices by means of a monopoly or "corner."

SYNERGISM, the theological doctrine that divine grace requires a correspondent action of the
human will to render it effective, a doctrine defended by Melanchthon when he ascribes to the
will the "power of seeking grace," the term "synergy" meaning co-operation.

SYNESIUS, BISHOP PTOLEMAIS, born at Cyrene; became a pupil of HYPATIA (q. v.) and was to the
last a disciple, "a father of the Church without having been her son," and is styled by Kingsley
"the squire bishop," from his love of the chase; "books and the chase," on one occasion he
writes, "make up my life"; wrote one or two curious books, and several hymns expressive of
a longing after divine things (375-414).

SYNOD, name given to any assembly of bishops in council, and in the Presbyterian Church to
an assembly of a district or a general assembly.

SYNOPTIC GOSPELS, the first three Gospels, so called because they are summaries of the chief
events in the story, and all go over the same ground, while the author of the fourth follows
lines of his own.

SYRA (31), an island of the Cyclades group, in the Ægean Sea, 10 m, by 5 m., with a capital
called also Hermoupolis; on the E. coast is the seat of the government of the islands, and
the chief port.

SYRACUSE, 1, one of the great cities of antiquity (19), occupied a wide triangular tableland
on the SE. coast of Sicily, 80 m. SW. of Messina, and also the small island Ortygia, lying
close to the shore; founded by Corinthian settlers about 733 B.C.; amongst its rulers were
the tyrants DIONYSIUS THE ELDER and DIONYSIUS THE YOUNGER (q. v.) and Hiero, the patron of
Æschylus, Pindar, &c.; successfully resisted the long siege of the Athenians in 414 B.C., and
rose to a great pitch of renown after its struggle with the Carthaginians in 397 B.C., but
siding with Hannibal in the Punic Wars, was taken after a two years' siege by the Romans (212
B.C.), in whose hands it slowly declined, and finally was sacked and destroyed by the Saracens
in 878 A.D. Only the portion on Ortygia was rebuilt, and this constitutes the modern city,
which has interesting relics of its former greatness, but is otherwise a crowded and dirty
place, surrounded by walls, and fortified; exports fruit, olive-oil, and wine. 2, A city (108)
of New York State, United States, 148 m. W. of Albany, in the beautiful valley of Onondaga;
is a spacious and handsomely laid-out city, with university, &c.; has flourishing steel-works,
foundries, rolling-mills, &c., and enormous salt manufactures.

SYRIA (2,000), one of three divisions of Asiatic Turkey, slightly larger than Italy, forms
a long strip of mountains and tableland intersected by fertile valleys, lying along the eastern
end of the Mediterranean from the Taurus range in the N. to the Egyptian border on the 8.,
and extending to the Euphrates and Arabian desert The coastal strip and waters fall within
the LEVANT (q. v.). In the S. lies Palestine, embracing Jordan, Dead Sea, Lake of Tiberias
(Sea of Galilee), Jerusalem, Gaza, &c.; in the N., between the parallel ranges of Lebanon and
Anti-Lebanon, lies the valley of Coele-Syria, through which flows the Orontes. Important towns
are Aleppo, Damascus, Beyrout (chief port), &c.; principal exports are silk, wool, olive-oil,
and fruits. Four-fifths of the people are Mohammedans of Aramæan (ancient Syrian) and Arabic
stock. Once a portion of the ASSYRIAN EMPIRE (q. v.), it became a possession successively of
the Persians, Greeks, Romans, Arabs, Egyptians, and finally fell into the hands of the Ottoman
Turks in 1516, under whose rule it now languishes. For further particulars see various names
and places mentioned.

SYRIANUS, a Greek Neoplatonic philosopher of the 5th century; had PROCLUS (q. v.) for a disciple;
left a valuable commentary on the metaphysics of Aristotle.

SYRINX, an Arcadian nymph, who, being pursued by Pan, fled into a river, was metamorphosed
into a reed, of which Pan made his flute.

SYRTIS, MAJOR AND MINOR, the ancient names of the Gulfs of Sidra and Cabes on the N. coast
of Africa, the former between Tripoli and Barca, the latter between Tunis and Tripoli.

SYRUS, PUBLIUS, a slave brought to Rome, and on account of his wit manumitted by his master;
made his mark by composing memoirs and a collection of pithy sayings that appear to have been
used as a school-book; flourished in 45 B.C.

SYSTÈME DE LA NATURE, a book, the authorship of which is ascribed to BARON HOLBACH (q. v.),
which appeared in 1770, advocating a philosophical materialism and maintaining that nothing
exists but matter, and that mind is either naught or only a finer kind of matter; there is
nowhere anything, it insists, except matter and motion; it is the farthest step yet taken in
the direction of speculative as opposed to political nihilism.

SYZYGY, the point on the orbit of a planet, or the moon when it is in conjunction with, or
in opposition to, the sun.

SZECHUAN (71,000), the largest province of China, lies in the W. between Thibet (NW.) and Yunnan
(SW.); more than twice the size of Great Britain; a hilly country, rich in coal, iron, &c.,
and traversed by the Yangtse-kiang and large tributaries; Chingtu is the capital; two towns
have been opened to foreign trade, opium, silk, tobacco, musk, white wax, &c., being chief exports.

SZEGEDIN (89), a royal free city of Hungary, situated at the confluence of the Maros and Theiss,
118 m. SE. of Budapest, to which it ranks next in importance as a commercial and manufacturing
centre; has been largely rebuilt since the terribly destructive flood of 1879, and presents
a handsome modern appearance.

T

TABARD, a tunic without sleeves worn by military nobles over their arms, generally emblazoned
with heraldic devices. "Toom Tabard," empty king's cloak, nickname given by the Scotch to John
Balliol as nothing more.

TABERNACLE, a movable structure of the nature of a temple, erected by the Israelites during
their wanderings in the wilderness; it was a parallelogram in shape, constructed of boards
lined with curtains, the roof flat and of skins, while the floor was the naked earth, included
a sanctum and a sanctum sanctorum, and contained altars for sacrifice and symbols of sacred
import, especially of the Divine presence, and was accessible only to the priests. See FEASTS,
JEWISH.

TABLE MOUNTAIN, a flat-topped eminence in the SW. of Cape Colony, rising to a height of 3600
ft. behind Cape Town and overlooking it, often surmounted by a drapery of mist.

TABLES, THE TWELVE, the tables of the Roman laws engraven on brass brought from Athens to Rome
by the decemvirs.

TABLETS, name given to thin boards coated with wax and included in a frame for writing on with
a stylus.

TABLE-TURNING, movement of a table ascribed to the agency of spirits or some recondite spiritual
force acting through the media of a circle of people standing round the edge touching it with
their finger-tips in contact with those of the rest.

TABOO or TABU, a solemn prohibition or interdict among the Polynesians under which a particular
person or thing is pronounced inviolable, and so sacred, the violation of which entails malediction
at the hands of the supernatural powers.

TABOR, MOUNT, an isolated cone-shaped hill, 1000 ft. in height and clothed with olive-trees,
on the NE. borders of ESDRAËLON (q. v.), 7 m. E. of Nazareth. A tradition of the 2nd century
identifies it as the scene of the Tranfiguration, and ruins of a church, built by the Crusaders
to commemorate the event, crown the summit.

TABRIZ (170), an ancient and still important commercial city of Persia, 320 m. SE. of Tiflis,
4500 ft. above sea-level; occupies an elevated site on the Aji, 40 m. E. of its entrance into
Lake Urumiah; carries on a flourishing transit trade and has notable manufactures of leather,
silk, and gold and silver ware; has been on several occasions visited by severe earthquakes.

TACITUS, CORNELIUS, Roman historian, born presumably at Rome, of equestrian rank, early famous
as an orator; married a daughter of Agricola, held office under the Emperors Vespasian, Domitian,
and Nerva, and conducted along with the younger Pliny the prosecution of Marius Priscus; he
is best known and most celebrated as a historian, and of writings extant the chief are his
"Life of Agricola," his "Germania," his "Histories" and his "Annals"; his "Agricola" is admired
as a model biography, while his "Histories" and "Annales" are distinguished for "their conciseness,
their vigour, and the pregnancy of meaning; a single word sometimes gives effect to a whole
sentence, and if the meaning of the word is missed, the sense of the writer is not reached";
his great power lies in his insight into character and the construing of motives, but the picture
he draws of imperial Rome is revolting; b. about A.D. 54.

TACNA (14), capital of a province (32) in North Chile, 38 m. N. of Arica, with which it is
connected by rail; trades in wool and minerals; taken from Peru in 1883.

TACOMA (38), a flourishing manufacturing town and port of Washington State, on Puget Sound;
has practically sprung into existence within the last 15 years, and is the outlet for the produce
of a rich agricultural and mining district.

TADMOR. See PALMYRA.

TAEL, a Chinese money of account of varying local value, and rising and falling with the price
of silver, but may be approximately valued at between 6s. and 5s. 6d. The customs tael, equivalent
in value to about 4s 9d., has been superseded by the new dollar of 1890, which is equal to
that of the United States.

TAGANROG (50), a Russian seaport on the N. shore of the Sea of Azov; is the outlet for the
produce of a rich agricultural district, wheat, linseed, and hempseed being the chief exports.
Founded by Peter the Great in 1698.

TAGLIONI, MARIA, a famous ballet-dancer, born at Stockholm, the daughter of an Italian ballet-master;
made her début in Paris in 1827 and soon became the foremost danseuse of Europe; married Count
de Voisins in 1832; retired from the stage in 1847 with a fortune, which she subsequently lost,
a misfortune which compelled her to set up as a teacher of deportment in London (1804-1884).

TAGUS, the largest river of the Spanish peninsula, issues from the watershed between the provinces
of Guadalajara and Teruel; follows a more or less westerly course across the centre of the
peninsula, and, after dividing into two portions below Salvaterra, its united waters enter
the Atlantic by a noble estuary 20 m. long; total length 566 m., of which 190 are in Portugal;
navigable as far as Abrantes.

TAHITI (11), the principal island of a group in the South Pacific; sometimes called the Society
Islands, situated 2000 m. NE. of New Zealand; are mountainous, of volcanic origin, beautifully
wooded, and girt by coral reefs; a fertile soil grows abundant fruit, cotton, sugar, &c., which,
with mother-of-pearl, are the principal exports; capital and chief harbour is Papeete (3);
the whole group since 1880 has become a French possession.

TAILLANDIER, SAINT-RENÉ, French littérateur and professor, born at Paris; filled the chair
of Literature at the Sorbonne from 1863; wrote various works of literary, historical, and philosophical
interest, and did much by his writings to extend the knowledge of German art and literature
in France; was a frequent contributor to the Revue des Deux Mondes, and in 1873 was elected
a member of the Academy (1817-1879).

TAILORS, Carlyle's humorsome name in "Sartor" for the architects of the customs and costumes
woven for human wear by society, the inventors of our spiritual toggery, the truly poetic class.

TAILORS, THE THREE, OF TOOLEY STREET, three characters said by Canning to have held a meeting
there for redress of grievances, and to have addressed a petition to the House of Commons beginning
"We, the people of England."

TAIN (2), a royal burgh of Ross-shire, on the S. shore of the Dornoch Firth, 44 m. NE. of Inverness;
has interesting ruins of a 13th-century chapel, a 15th-century collegiate church, an academy, &c.

TAINE, HIPPOLYTE ADOLPHE, an eminent French critic and historian, born at Vouziers, in Ardennes;
after some years of scholastic drudgery in the provinces returned to Paris, and there, by the
originality of his critical method and brilliancy of style soon took rank among the foremost
French writers; in 1854 the Academy crowned his essay on Livy; ten years later became professor
of Æsthetics at the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris, and in 1878 was admitted to the French Academy;
his voluminous writings embrace works on the philosophy of art, essays critical and historical,
volumes of travel-impressions in various parts of Europe; but his finest work is contained
in his vivid and masterly studies on "Les Origines de la France Contemporaine" and in his "History
of English Literature" (1833-4; Eng. trans, by Van Laun), the most penetrative and sympathetic
survey of English literature yet done by a foreigner; he was a disciple of Sainte-Beuve, but
went beyond his master in ascribing character too much to external environment (1828-1893).

TAI-PINGS, a name bestowed upon the followers of Hung Hsiû-ch`wan, a village schoolmaster of
China, who, coming under the influence of Christian teaching, sought to subvert the religion
and ruling dynasty of China; he himself was styled "Heavenly King," his reign "Kingdom of Heaven,"
and his dynasty "Tai-Ping" (Grand Peace); between 1851 and 1855 the rising assumed formidable
dimensions, but from 1855 began to decline; the religious enthusiasm died away; foreign auxiliaries
were called in, and under the leadership of GORDON (q. v.) the rebellion was stamped out by 1865.

TAIT, ARCHIBALD CAMPBELL, archbishop of Canterbury, of Scotch descent, born in Edinburgh; educated
at Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Oxford; when at Oxford led the opposition to the Tractarian Movement;
in 1842 succeeded Arnold as head-master at Rugby; in 1850 became Dean of Carlisle; in 1856
Bishop of London; and in 1868 Primate. This last office he held at a critical period, and his
episcopate was distinguished by great discretion and moderation (1811-1882).

TAIT, PETER GUTHRIE, physicist and mathematician, born at Dalkeith; educated in Edinburgh;
became senior wrangler at Cambridge, and Smith's prizeman in 1852; was in 1854 elected professor
of Mathematics at Belfast, and in 1860 professor of Natural Philosophy at Edinburgh; has done
a great deal of experimental work, especially in thermo-electricity, and has contributed important
papers on pure mathematics; wrote, along with Lord Kelvin, "Treatise on Natural Philosophy,"
and along with Balfour Stewart "The Unseen Universe," followed by "Paradoxical Philosophy";
b. 1831.

TAI-WAN (70), capital of FORMOSA (q. v.), an important commercial emporium, situated about
3 m. from the SW. coast, on which, however, it has a port, ranking as a treaty-port.

TAJ MAHAL. See AGRA.

TALARIA, wings attached to the ankles or sandals of Mercury as the messenger of the gods.

TALAVERA DE LA REINA (10), a picturesque old Spanish town on the Tagus, situated amid vineyards,
75 m. SE. of Madrid; scene of a great victory under Sir Arthur Wellesley over a French army
commanded by Joseph Bonaparte, Marshals Jourdan and Victor, 27th July 1809.

TALBOT, WILLIAM HENRY FOX, one of the earliest experimenters and a discoverer in photography,
born in Chippenham, which he represented in Parliament; was also one of the first to decipher
the Assyrian cuneiform inscriptions (1800-1877).

TALE OF A TUB, a great work of Swift's, characterised by Professor Saintsbury as "one of the
very greatest books of the world, in which a great drift of universal thought receives consummate
literary form ... the first great book," he announces, "in prose or verse, of the 18th century,
and in more ways than one the herald and champion at once of its special achievements in literature."

TALENT, a weight, coin, or sum of money among the ancients, of variable value among different
nations and at different periods; the Attic weight being equal to about 57 lbs. troy, and the
money to £243, 15s.; among the Romans the great talent was worth £99, and the little worth £75.

TALFOURD, SIR THOMAS NOON, lawyer and dramatist, born at Doxey, near Stafford; was called to
the bar in 1821, and practised with notable success, becoming in 1849 a justice of Common Pleas
and a knight; was for some years a member of Parliament; author of four tragedies, of which
"Ion" is the best known; was the intimate friend and literary executor of Charles Lamb (1795-1854).

TALISMAN, a magical figure of an astrological nature carved on a stone or piece of metal under
certain superstitious observances, to which certain wonderful effects are ascribed; is of the
nature of a charm to avert evil.

TALLARD, COMTE DE, marshal of France; served in the War of the Spanish Succession; was taken
prisoner by Marlborough at Hochstädt, on which occasion he said to the duke, "Your Grace has
beaten the finest troops in Europe," when the duke replied, "You will except, I hope, those
who defeated them" (1652-1728).

TALLEMANT DES RÉAUX, GÉDÉON, French writer, native of La Rochelle; author of a voluminous collection
of gossipy biographies, or anecdotes rather, "Historiettes," filling five volumes, which throw
a flood of light on the manners and customs of 17th-century life in France, though allowance
must be made for exaggerations (1619-1692).

TALLEYRAND DE PÉRIGORD, CHARLES MAURICE, PRINCE OF BENEVENTO, French statesman and diplomatist,
born in Paris, of an illustrious family; rendered lame by an accident, was cut off from a military
career; was educated for the Church, and made bishop of Autun; chosen deputy of the clergy
of his diocese to the States-General in 1789, threw himself with zeal into the popular side,
officiated in his pontifical robes at the feast of the Federation in the Champs de Mars, and
was the first to take the oath on that side, but on being excommunicated by the Pope resigned
his bishopric, and embarked on a statesman's career; sent on a mission to England in 1792,
remained two years as an émigré, and had to deport himself to the United States, where he employed
himself in commercial transactions; recalled in 1796, was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs;
supported Bonaparte in his ambitious schemes, and on the latter becoming Emperor, was made
Grand Chamberlain and Duke of Benevento, while he retained the portfolio of Foreign Affairs;
in a fit of irritation Napoleon one day discharged him, and he refused to accept office again
when twice over recalled; he attached himself to the Bourbons on their return, and becoming
Foreign Minister to Louis XVIII., was made a peer, and sent ambassador to the Congress of Vienna;
went into opposition till the fall of Charles X., and attached himself to Louis Philippe in
1830; Carlyle in his "Revolution" pronounced him "a man living in falsehood and on falsehood,
yet, as the specialty of him, not what you can call a false man ... an enigma possible only
in an age of paper and the burning of paper," in an age in which the false was the only real
(1754-1838).

TALLIEN, JEAN LAMBERT, a notable French Revolutionist, born in Paris; a lawyer's clerk; threw
in his lot with the Revolution, and became prominent as the editor of a Jacobin journal, L'Ami
des Citoyens; took an active part in the sanguinary proceedings during the ascendency of Robespierre,
notably terrorising the disaffected of Bordeaux by a merciless use of the guillotine; recalled
to Paris, and became President of the Convention, but fearing Robespierre, headed the attack
which brought the Dictator to the block; enjoyed, with his celebrated wife, Madame de Fontenay,
considerable influence; accompanied Napoleon to Egypt; was captured by the English, and for
a season lionised by the Whigs; his political influence at an end, he was glad to accept the
post of consul at Alicante, and subsequently died in poverty (1769-1820).

TALLIS, THOMAS, "the father of English cathedral music," born in the reign of Henry VIII.,
lived well into the reign of Elizabeth; was an organist, and probably "a gentleman of the Chapel
Royal"; composed various anthems, hymns, Te Deums, etc., including "The Song of the Forty Parts"
(c. 1515-1585).

TALLY, a notched stick used in commercial and Exchequer transactions when writing was yet a
rare accomplishment; the marks, of varying breadth, indicated sums paid by a purchaser; the
stick was split longitudinally, and one-half retained by the seller and one by the buyer as
a receipt. As a means of receipt for sums paid into the Exchequer, the tally was in common
use until 1782, and was not entirely abolished till 1812. Tally System, a mode of credit-dealing
by which a merchant provides a customer with goods, and receives in return weekly or monthly
payments to account.

TALMA, FRANÇOIS JOSEPH, a famous French tragedian, born in Paris, where in 1787 he made his
début; from the first his great gifts were apparent, and during the Revolution he was the foremost
actor at the Théâtre de la République, and subsequently enjoyed the favour of Napoleon; his
noble carriage and matchless elocution enabled him to play with great dignity such characters
as Othello, Nero, Orestes, Leicester, etc.; introduced, like Kemble in England, a greater regard
for historical accuracy in scenery and dress (1763-1826).

TALMUD, a huge limbo, in chaotic arrangement, consisting of the Mishna, or text, and Gemara,
or commentary, of Rabbinical speculations, subtleties, fancies, and traditions connected with
the Hebrew Bible, and claiming to possess co-ordinate rank with it as expository of its meaning
and application, the whole collection dating from a period subsequent to the Captivity and
the close of the canon of Scripture. There are two Talmuds, one named the Talmud of Jerusalem,
and the other the Talmud of Babylon, the former, the earlier of the two, belonging in its present
form to the close of the 4th century, and the latter to at least a century later. See HAGGADAH
and HALACHA.

TALUS, a man of brass, the work of Hephæstos, given to Minos to guard the island of Crete;
he walked round the island thrice a day, and if he saw any stranger approaching he made himself
red-hot and embraced him.

TAMATAVE, the chief town of Madagascar, on a bay on the E. coast.

TAMERLANE or TIMUR, a great Asiatic conqueror, born at Hesh, near Samarcand; the son of a Mongol
chief, raised himself by military conquest to the throne of Samarcand (1369), and having firmly
established his rule over Turkestan, inspired by lust of conquest began the wonderful series
of military invasions which enabled him to build up an empire that at the time of his death
extended from the Ganges to the Grecian Archipelago; died whilst leading an expedition against
China; was a typical Asiatic despot, merciless in the conduct of war, but in peace-time a patron
of science and art, and solicitous for his subjects' welfare (1336-1405).

TAMESIS, the Latin name for the Thames, and so named by Cesar in his "Gallic War."

TAMIL, a branch of the Dravidian language, spoken in the S. of India and among the coolies
of Ceylon.

TAMMANY SOCIETY, a powerful political organisation of New York City, whose ostensible objects,
on its formation in 1805, were charity and reform of the franchise; its growth was rapid, and
from the first it exercised, under a central committee and chairman, known as the "Boss," remarkable
political influence on the Democratic side. Since the gigantic frauds practised in 1870-1871
on the municipal revenues by the then "Boss," William M. Tweed, and his "ring," the society
has remained under public suspicion as "a party machine" not too scrupulous about its ways
and means. The name is derived from a celebrated Indian chief who lived in Penn's day, and
who has become the centre of a cycle of legendary tales.

TAMMERFORS (20), an important manufacturing city of Finland, situated on a rapid stream, which
drives its cotton, linen, and woollen factories, 50 m. NW. of Tavastehuus.

TAMMUZ, a god mentioned in Ezekiel, generally identified with the GREEK ADONIS (q. v.), the
memory of whose fall was annually celebrated with expressions first of mourning and then of
joy all over Asia Minor. Adonis appears to have been a symbol of the sun, departing in winter
and returning as youthful as ever in spring, and the worship of him a combined expression of
gloom, connected with the presence of winter, and of joy, associated with the approach of summer.

TAMPICO (5), a port of Mexico, on the Panuco, 9 m. from its entrance into the Gulf of Mexico;
the harbour accommodation has been improved, and trade is growing.

TAMWORTH (7), an old English town on the Stafford and Warwickshire border, 7 m. SE. of Lichfield;
its history goes back to the time of the Danes, by whom it was destroyed in 911; an old castle,
and the church of St. Edith, are interesting buildings; has prosperous manufactures of elastic,
paper, &c.; has a bronze statue of Sir Robert Peel, who represented the borough in Parliament.

TANAÏS, the Latin name for the Don.

TANCRED, a famous crusader, hero of Tasso's great poem; was the son of Palgrave Otho the Good,
and of Emma, Robert Guiscard's sister; for great deeds done in the first crusade he was rewarded
with the principality of Tiberias; in the "Jerusalem Delivered" Tasso, following the chroniclers,
represents him as the very "flower and pattern of chivalry"; stands as the type of "a very
gentle perfect knight"; died at Antioch of a wound received in battle (1078-1112).

TANDY, JAMES NAPPER, Irish patriot, born in Dublin, where he became a well-to-do merchant,
and first secretary to the United Irishmen association; got into trouble through the treasonable
schemes of the United Irishmen, and fled to America; subsequently served in the French army,
took part in the abortive invasion of Ireland (1798); ultimately fell into the hands of the
English Government, and was sentenced to death (1801), but was permitted to live an exile in
France (1740-1803).

TANGANYIKA, a lake of East Central Africa, stretching between the Congo Free State (W.) and
German East Africa (E.); discovered by Speke and Burton in 1858; more carefully explored by
Livingstone and Stanley in 1871; the overflow is carried off by the Lukuga into the Upper Congo;
is girt round by lofty mountains; length 420 m., breadth from 15 to 80 m.

TANGIER or TANGIERS (20), a seaport of Morocco, on a small bay of the Strait of Gibraltar;
occupies a picturesque site on two hills, but within its old walls presents a dirty and crowded
appearance; has a considerable shipping trade; was a British possession from 1662 to 1683,
but was abandoned by them, and subsequently became infested by pirates.

TANIS, an ancient city of Egypt, whose ruins mark its site on the NE. of the Nile delta; once
the commercial metropolis of Egypt, and a royal residence; fell into decay owing to the silting
up of the Tanitic mouth of the Nile, and was destroyed in A.D. 174 for rebellion.

TANIST STONE, monolith erected by the Celts on a coronation, agreeably to an ancient custom
(Judges ix. 6).

TANISTRY, a method of tenure which prevailed among the Gaelic Celts; according to this custom
succession, whether in office or land, was determined by the family as a whole, who on the
death of one holder elected another from its number; the practice was designed probably to
prevent family estates falling into the hands of an incompetent or worthless heir.

TANJORE (54), capital of a district (2,130) of the same name, in Madras Province, India, situated
in a fertile plain 180 m. SW. of Madras, and about 45 m. from the sea; surrounded by walls;
contains a rajah's palace, a British residency, and manufactures silk, muslin, and cotton.

TANNAHILL, ROBERT, Scottish poet, born at Paisley; the son of a weaver, was bred to the hand-loom,
and with the exception of a two years' residence in Lancashire, passed his life in his native
town; an enthusiastic admirer of Burns, Fergusson, and Ramsay, he soon began to emulate them,
and in 1807 published a volume of "Poems and Songs," which, containing such songs as "Gloomy
Winter's noo Awa," "Jessie the Flower o' Dunblane," "The Wood o' Craigielea," &c., proved an
immediate success; disappointment at the rejection by Constable of his proffered MSS. of a
new and enlarged edition of his works and a sense of failing health led to his committing suicide
in a canal near Paisley; his songs are marked by tenderness and grace, but lack the force and
passion of Burns (1774-1810).

TANNER, THOMAS, bishop and antiquary, born at Market Lavington, Wiltshire; became a graduate
and Fellow of Oxford; took orders, and rose to be bishop of St. Asaph; his reputation as a
learned and accurate antiquary rests on his two great works "Notitia Monastica, or a Short
Account of the Religious Houses in England and Wales," and "Bibliotheca Britannico-Hibernica,"
a veritable mine of biographical and bibliographical erudition; bequeathed valuable collections
of charters, deeds, &c., to the Bodleian Library (1674-1735).

TANNHÄUSER, a knight of medieval legend, who wins the affection of a lady, but leaves her to
worship in the cave-palace of Venus, on learning which the lady plunges a dagger into her heart
and dies; smitten with remorse he visits her grave, weeps over it, and hastens to Rome to confess
his sin to Pope Urban; the Pope refuses absolution, and protests it is no more possible for
him to receive pardon than for the dry wand in his hand to bud again and blossom; in his despair
he flees from Rome, but is met by Venus, who lures him back to her cave, there to remain till
the day of judgment; meanwhile the wand he left at Rome begins to put forth green leaves, and
Urban, alarmed, sends off messengers in quest of the unhappy knight, but they fail to find him.

TANNIN, an astringent principle found in gallnuts and the bark chiefly of the oak.

TANTALUS, in the Greek mythology a Lydian king, who, being admitted from blood relationship
to the banquets of the gods, incurred their displeasure by betraying their secrets, and was
consigned to the nether world and compelled to suffer the constant pangs of hunger and thirst,
though he stood up to the chin in water, and had ever before him the offer of the richest fruits,
both of which receded from him as he attempted to reach them, while a huge rock hung over him,
ever threatening to fall and crush him with its weight.

TANTIA TOPEE, the most daring and stubborn of Nana Sahib's lieutenants during the Indian Mutiny;
in alliance with the Rani of Jhansi he upheld for a time the mutiny after the flight of his
chief, but was finally captured and executed in 1859.

TAOISM, the religious system of LAOTZE (q. v.).

TAORMINA (2), a town of Sicily; crowns the summit of Monte Tauro, 35 m. SW. of Messina; chiefly
celebrated for its splendid ruins of an ancient theatre, aqueducts, sepulchres, &c.

TAPAJOS, one of the greater affluents of the Amazon; its head-waters rise in the Serra Diamantina,
in the S. of Matto-Grosso State; has a northward course of over 1000 m. before it joins the
Amazon; is a broad and excellent waterway, and navigable in its lower course for 150 m.

TAPLEY, MARK, body-servant to Martin Chuzzlewit, in Dickens's novel of the name.

TAPTI, a river of Bombay; has its source in the Betul district of the Central Provinces, and
flows westward across the peninsula 450 m. to the Gulf of Cambay; is a shallow and muddy stream,
of little commercial use.

TARA, HILL OF, a celebrated eminence, cone-shaped (507 ft.), in county Meath, 7 m. SE. of Navan;
legend points to it as the site of the residence of the kings of Ireland, where something like
a parliament was held every three years.

TARANAKI (22), a provincial district of New Zealand, occupying the SW. corner of North Island;
remarkable for its dense forests, which cover nearly three-fourths of its area, and for its
beds (2 to 5 ft. deep) of titaniferous iron-sand which extend along its coasts, out of which
the finest steel is manufactured; New Plymouth (4) is the capital.

TARANTO (25), a fortified seaport of South Italy, situated on a rocky islet which lies between
the Gulf of Taranto and the Mare Piccolo, a broad inlet on the E., 72 m. S. of Bari; is well
built, and contains various interesting buildings, including a cathedral and castle; is connected
with the mainland on the E. by a six-arched bridge, and by an ancient aqueduct on the W.; some
textile manufactures are carried on, and oyster and mussel fisheries and fruit-growing are
important; as the ancient Tarentum its history goes back to the time when it was the chief
city of Magna Græcia; was captured by the Romans in 272 B.C., and after the fall of the Western
Empire was successively in the hands of Goths, Lombards, and Saracens, and afterwards shared
the fate of the kingdom of Naples, to which it was united in 1063.

TARAPACA (47), a maritime province of North Chili, taken from Peru in 1883; its immense deposits
of nitrate of soda are a great source of wealth to the country; capital IQUIQUE (q. v.)

TARARE (12), a town of France, dep. of Rhône, 21 m. NW. of Lyons; busy with the manufacture
of muslins, silks, and other fine textiles.

TARASCON (7), a picturesque old town of France, 18 m. SW. of Avignon; is surrounded by walls,
has a 15th-century castle (King Rent's), a Gothic church, silk and woollen factories.

TARBES (25), an old historic town of France, on the Adour, 100 m. SW. of Toulouse; has a fine
12th-century cathedral, a Government cannon factory, etc.

TARE AND TRET, commercial terms, are deductions usually made from the gross weight of goods.
Tare is the weight of the case or covering, box, or such-like, containing the goods; deducting
this the net weight is left. Tret is a further allowance (not now so commonly deducted) made
at the rate of 4 lb. for every 104 lb. for waste through dust, sand, etc.

TARENTUM. See TARANTO.

TARGUMS, translations, dating for the most part as early as the time of Ezra, of several books
of the Old Testament into Aramaic, which both in Babylonia and Palestine had become the spoken
language of the Jews instead of Hebrew, executed chiefly for the service of the Synagogue;
they were more or less of a paraphrastic nature, and were accompanied with comments and instances
in illustration; they were delivered at first orally and then handed down by tradition, which
did not improve them. One of them, on the Pentateuch, bears the name of Onkelos, who sat at
the feet of Gamaliel along with St. Paul, and another the name of Jonathan, in the historical
and prophetical books, though there are others, the Jerusalem Targum and the Pseudo-Jonathan,
which are of an inferior stamp and surcharged with fancies similar to those in the TALMUD (q. v.).

TARIFA (13), an interesting old Spanish seaport, the most southerly town of Europe, 21 m. SW.
of Gibraltar, derives its name from the Moorish leader Tarif, who occupied it 710 A.D.; held
by the Moors for more than 500 years; still thoroughly Moorish in appearance, dingy, crowded,
and surrounded by walls; is connected by causeway with the strongly-fortified Isleta de Tarifa.

TARNOPOL (26), a town of Galicia, Austria, on the Sereth, 80 m. SE. of Lemberg; does a good
trade in agricultural produce; inhabitants chiefly Jews.

TARNOV (25), a town of Galicia, Austria, on the Biala, 48 m. SE. of Cracow; is the see of a
bishop, with cathedral, monastery, etc.; manufactures linen and leather.

TARPEIAN ROCK, a precipitous cliff on the W. of the Capitoline Hill at Rome, from which in
ancient times persons guilty of treason were hurled; named after Tarpeia, a vestal virgin,
who betrayed the city to the Sabine soldiers, then besieging Rome, on condition that they gave
her what they wore on their left arms, meaning their golden bracelets; instead the soldiers
flung their shields (borne on their left arms) upon her, so keeping to the letter of their
promise, but visiting perfidy with merited punishment; at the base of the rock her body was buried.

TARQUINIUS, name of an illustrious Roman family of Etruscan origin, two of whose members, according
to legend, reigned as king in Rome: LUCIUS TARQUINIUS SUPERBUS, fifth king of Rome; the friend
and successor of Ancus Martius; said to have reigned from 616 to 578 B.C., and to have greatly
extended the power and fame of Rome; was murdered by the sons of Ancus Martius. LUCIUS TARQUINIUS
SUPERBUS, seventh and last king of Rome (534-510), usurped the throne after murdering his father-in-law,
King Servius Tullius; ruled as a despot, extended the power of Rome abroad, but was finally
driven out by a people goaded to rebellion by his tyranny and infuriated by the infamous conduct
of his son Sextus (the violator of Lucretia); made several unsuccessful attempts to regain
the royal power, failing in which he retired to Cumæ, where he died.

TARRAGONA (27), a Spanish seaport, capital of a province (349) of its own name, situated at
the entrance of the Francoli into the Mediterranean, 60 m. W. of Barcelona; contains many interesting
remains of the Roman occupation, including an aqueduct, still used, and the Tower of the Scipios;
possesses also a 12th-century Gothic cathedral; has a large shipping and transport trade, and
manufactures silk, jute, lace, &c.

TARRYTOWN (4), a village of New York State, on the Hudson, 21 m. N. of New York; associated
with the arrest of Major André in 1780, and the closing scenes of Washington Irving's life.

TARSHISH, a place frequently mentioned in the Old Testament, now generally identified with
Tartessus, a Phoenician settlement in the SW. of Spain, near the mouth of the Guadalquivir,
which became co-extensive with the district subsequently known as Andalusia; also conjectured
to have been Tarsus, and also Yemen.

TARSUS (8), a city of great antiquity and interest, the ancient capital of Cilicia, now in
the province of Adana, in Turkey in Asia, on the Cydnus, 12 m. above its entrance into the
Mediterranean; legend ascribes its foundation to Sennacherib in 690 B.C.; in Roman times was
a famous centre of wealth and culture, rivalling Athens and Alexandria; associated with the
meeting of Antony and Cleopatra and the deaths of the emperors Tacitus and Maximinus; here
St. Paul was born and notable Stoic philosophers; in the hands of the Turk has decayed into
a squalid residence of merchants busy with the export of corn, cotton, wool, hides, &c. In
winter the population rises to 30,000.

TARTARS (originally TATARS), a name of no precise ethnological signification, used in the 13th
century to describe the Mongolic, Turkish, and other Asiatic hordes, who, under GENGHIS KHAN
(q. v.), were the terror of Eastern Europe, and now bestowed upon various tribes dwelling in
Tartary, Siberia, and the Asiatic steppes.

TARTARUS, a dark sunless waste in the nether deeps, as far below earth as heaven is above it,
into which Zeus hurled the Titans that rebelled against him; the term was subsequently sometimes
used to denote the whole nether world and sometimes the place of punishment.

TARTESSUS, the Greek and Roman name for the Scriptural Tarshish.

TARTINI, GIUSEPPE, a famous Italian violinist and composer, born at Pirano, in Istria; got
into trouble over his clandestine marriage with the niece of the archbishop of Padua, and fled
for sanctuary to a monastery at Assisi; subsequently reunited to his wife established himself
in Padua as a teacher and composer; wrote a "Treatise on Music," and enjoyed a wide celebrity,
and still ranks as one of the great violinists of the past (1692-1770).

TARTUFFE, a knave, a creation of Molière's, who makes a cloak of religion to cover his knaveries,
and the name of the play in which the character appears, Molière's greatest.

TASHKAND or TASHKENT (100), capital of Russian Turkestan, on the Tchirshik, 300 m. NE. of Samarcand;
an ancient place still surrounded by its 12 m. circuit of wall, and fortified; Russian enterprise
has done much for it, introducing schools, &c.; carries on a brisk trade, and manufactures
silks, leather, porcelain ware, &c.

TASMAN SEA, the sea lying between the New Zealand group and the islands of Australia and Tasmania.

TASMANIA (146), an island and colony of Britain, lying fully 100 m. S. of Australia, from which
it is separated by Bass Strait; about the size of Scotland; the beauty of its mountain and
lake scenery has won it the name of "the Switzerland of the South"; extensive stretches of
tableland diversified by lakes--largest Great Lake, 90 m. in circumference--occupy the centre;
wide fertile valleys stretch down to the coastal plains, often richly wooded with lofty eucalyptus
and various pine trees; rivers are numerous, and include the Derwent and Tamar, which form
excellent waterways into the interior; enjoys a genial and temperate climate, more invigorating
than that of Australia; sheep-farming and latterly mining (coal in particular), and fruit-growing
are the principal industries; gold, silver, and tin are also wrought; the flora, as also the
fauna, is practically identical with that of Australia; has a long, irregular coast-line, with
many excellent harbours; chief exports are wool, tin, fruit, timber, coal, and gold; was discovered
in 1642 by Tasman, a Dutchman, and first settled by Englishmen in 1803; the aborigines are
now completely extinct; was till 1852 a penal settlement, and received representative government
in 1855; is divided into 18 counties; government is conducted by a legislative council, a house
of assembly, and a crown-appointed governor; most of the colonists belong to the Church of
England; compulsory education is in vogue; is well supplied with railways and telegraphs; was
formerly called Van Diemen's Land after Van Diemen, the Dutch governor-general of Batavia,
who despatched Tasman on his voyage of discovery.

TASSO, BERNARDO, an Italian poet of some repute in his own day, but now chiefly remembered
as the father of the greater Torquato, born in Venice (1493-1569).

TASSO, TORQUATO, an illustrious Italian poet, son of preceding, born at Sorrento, near Naples;
educated at a Jesuit school in Naples, he displayed unusual precocity, and subsequently studied
law at the university of Padua, but already devoted to poetry, at 18 published his first poem
"Rinaldo," a romance in 12 cantos, the subject-matter of which is drawn from the Charlemagne
legends; in 1566 he entered the service of Cardinal Luigi d'Este, by whom he was introduced
to Alfonso, Duke of Ferrara, brother of the cardinal, within whose court he received the needful
impulse to begin his great poem "La Gerusalemme Liberata"; for the court stage he wrote his
pastoral play "Aminta," a work of high poetic accomplishment, which extended his popularity,
and by 1575 his great epic was finished; in the following year the symptoms of mental disease
revealed themselves, and after a confinement of a few days he fled from Ferrara, and for two
years led the life of a wanderer, the victim of his own brooding, religious melancholy, passing
on foot from city to city of Italy; yielding to a pent-up longing to revisit Ferrara he returned,
but was coldly received by the duke, and after an outburst of frenzy placed in confinement
for seven years; during these years the fame of his epic spread throughout Italy, and the interest
created in its author eventually led to his liberation; in 1595 he was summoned by Pope Clement
VIII., from a heartless and wandering life, to appear at Rome to be crowned upon the Capitol
the poet-laureate of Italy, but, although he reached the city, his worn-out frame succumbed
before the ceremony could take place; "One thing," says Settembrini, the literary historian
of Italy, "Tasso had, which few in his time possessed, a great heart, and that made him a true
and great poet, and a most unhappy man;" Fairfax's translation of the "Jerusalem Delivered"
is one of his great translations in the English language (1544-1595).

TATAR, a word derived from a Turanian root signifying "to pitch a tent," hence appropriate
to nomadic tribes, became converted by European chroniclers into Tartar, a fanciful derivative
from Tartaros (Gr. hell), and suggestive of fiends from hell. Tartary, as a geographical expression
of the Middle Ages, embraced a vast stretch of territory from the Dnieper, in Eastern Europe,
to the Sea of Japan; but subsequently dwindled away to Chinese and Western Turkestan.

TATE, NAHUM, poet-laureate, born in Dublin, where he was educated at Trinity College; came
to London to ply the craft of letters, and in 1690 succeeded Shadwell in the laureateship;
improvident, and probably intemperate, he died in the Mint, the refuge of bankrupts in those
days; wrote some dramatic pieces, but is to be remembered mainly for his metrical version of
the Psalms, executed in conjunction with Nicholas Brady, which superseded the older version
done by STERNHOLD (q. v.) and Hopkins (1652-1715).

TATIUS, ACHILLES, a Greek romancer who flourished about the beginning of the 4th century A.D.;
wrote the romance of "Leucippe and Cleitophon."

TATTERSALL'S, a noted horse-mart and haunt of racing men at Knightsbridge, London, established
by Richard Tattersall (1724-1795), an auctioneer, who in 1766 obtained a 99 years' lease from
Lord Grosvenor of premises in Hyde Park Corner; the present premises were occupied on the expiry
of the lease in 1867.

TATTOOING, a practice of imprinting various designs, often pictorial, upon the skin by means
of colouring matter, e. g. Chinese ink, cinnabar, introduced into punctures made by needles;
widely in vogue in past and present times amongst uncivilised peoples, and even to some extent
amongst civilised races; like the use of rouge, was mainly for the purpose of ornamentation
and for improving the appearance, but also in some cases for religious purposes; reached its
highest perfection in Japan, where it seems to have been largely resorted to as a substitute
for clothing, and was never employed on the face, feet, or hands; among the South Sea islanders
the custom is universal, and is still practised by considerable numbers of the lower-class
criminals of Europe.

TAU, CROSS OF, or ST. ANTHONY'S CROSS, a cross resembling the letter T.

TAUCHNITZ, KARL CRISTOPH TRAUGOTT, a noted German printer and bookseller, born at Grosspardau,
near Leipzig; trained as a printer, he started on his own account in Leipzig in 1796, flourished,
and became celebrated for his neat and cheap editions of the Roman and Greek classics; introduced
stereotyping into Germany (1761-1836). The well-known "British Authors" collection was started
in 1841 by CHRISTIAN BERNARD, BARON VON TAUCHNITZ, a nephew of the preceding, who established
himself as a printer and publisher in Leipzig in 1837; was ennobled in 1860, and made a Saxon
life-peer in 1877; b. 1816.

TAULER, JOHANN, a German mystic, born in Strasburg, bred a monk of the Dominican order, had,
along with the rest of his order, to flee the city, and settled in Basel, became a centre of
religious life there, and acquired repute as one of the most eloquent preachers of the day;
his sphere was not speculative thought but practical piety, and his "Sermons" take rank among
the aboriginal monuments of German prose literature (1300-1361).

TAUNTON, 1, (18), a trim, pleasantly-situated town of Somersetshire (18), on the Tone, 45 m.
SW. of Bristol; has a fine old castle founded in the 8th century, rebuilt in the 12th century,
and having interesting associations with Perkin Warbeck, Judge Jeffreys, and Sydney Smith;
has various schools, a college, barracks, &c.; noted for its hosiery, glove, and silk manufactures,
and is also a busy agricultural centre. 2, Capital (31) of Bristol County, Massachusetts, on
the Taunton River, 34 m. S. of Boston, a well equipped and busy manufacturing town.

TAURIDA (1,060), a government of South Russia, of extensive area, jutting down in peninsular
shape into the Black Sea, and including the Crimea and isthmus of Perekop; forms the western
boundary of the Sea of Azov; cattle-breeding and agriculture the staple industries.

TAURUS, or THE BULL, a constellation, the second in size of the zodiac, which the sun enters
towards the 20th of April.

TAURUS, MOUNT, a mountain range of Turkey in Asia, stretching W. for about 500 m. in an unbroken
chain from the head-waters of the Euphrates to the Ægean Sea, and forming the S. buttress of
the tableland of Asia Minor; in the E. is known as the Ala Dagh, in the W. as the Bulghar Dagh.
The Anti-Taurus is an offshoot of the main range, which, continuing to the NE., unites with
the systems of the Caucasus.

TAVERNIER, JEAN BAPTIST, BARON D'AUBONNE, a celebrated French traveller, born in Paris, the
son of an Antwerp engraver; was a wanderer from his boyhood, starting on his travels at the
age of 15, and by the end of 1630 had made his way as valet, page, &c., over most of Europe;
during the years 1630-1669 he in six separate expeditions traversed most of the lands of Asia
in the capacity of a dealer in jewels; reaped large profits; was honoured by various potentates,
and returned with stores of valuable information respecting the commerce of those countries,
which with much else interesting matter lie embodied in his great work, "Six Voyages," a classic
now in travel-literature; was ennobled in 1669 by Louis XIV. (1605-1689).

TAVIRA (11), a seaport in the S. of Portugal; has a Moorish castle, and good sardine and tunny
fisheries.

TAVISTOCK (6), a market-town of Devon, situated at the western edge of Dartmoor, on the Tavy,
11 m. N. of Plymouth; has remains of a 10th-century Benedictine abbey, a guild-hall, grammar
school, &c.; is one of the old stannary towns, and still largely depends for its prosperity
on the neighbouring tin, copper, and arsenic mines.

TAXIDERMY, the art of preparing and preserving the skins of animals for exhibition in cabinets.

TAY, a river of Scotland whose drainage area lies almost wholly within Perthshire; rises on
the northern slope of Ben Lui, on the Argyll and Perthshire border, and flowing 25 m. NE. under
the names of Fillan and Dochart, enters Loch Tay, whence it sweeps N., SE., and E., passing
Aberfeldy, Dunkeld, Perth, and Dundee, and enters the North Sea by a noble estuary 25 m. long
and from ½ m. to 3½ m. broad; chief affluents are the Tummel, Isla, Almond, and Earn; discharges
a greater body of water than any British stream; is renowned for the beauty of its scenery,
and possesses valuable salmon fisheries; has a total length of 120 m., and is navigable to
Perth; immediately W. of Dundee it is spanned by the TAY BRIDGE, the longest structure of its
kind in the world, consisting of 95 spans, with a total width of 3440 yards; Loch Tay, one
of the finest of Highland lochs, lies at the base of Ben Lawers, stretches 14½ m. NE. from
Killin to Kenmore, and varies from ½ m. to 1½ m. in breadth.

TAYGETUS, a range of mountains in the Peloponnese, separating Laconia from Messina.

TAYLOR, BAYARD, a noted American writer and traveller, born at Kennett Square, Pennsylvania;
was bred to the printing trade, and by 21 had published a volume of poems, "Ximena," and "Views
Afoot, or Europe seen with Knapsack and Staff," the fruit of a walking tour through Europe;
next for a number of years contributed, as travel correspondent, to the Tribune, visiting in
this capacity Egypt, the greater part of Asia, Central Africa, Russia. Iceland, etc.; during
1862-1863 acted as Secretary of Legation at St. Petersburg, and in 1878 was appointed ambassador
at Berlin; his literary reputation rests mainly on his poetic works, "Poems of the Orient,"
"Rhymes of Travel," etc., and an admirable translation of Goethe's "Faust"; also wrote several
novels (1825-1878).

TAYLOR, SIR HENRY, poet, born at Bishop. Middleham, in Durham; after a nine months' unhappy
experience as a midshipman obtained his discharge, and having acted for some years as clerk
in the Storekeeper-General's Department, entered the Colonial Office in 1823, where he continued
till his retirement in 1872; literature engaged his leisure hours, and his four tragedies--the
best of which is "Philip van Artevelde"--are an important contribution to the drama of the
century, and characterised as the noblest effort in the true taste of the English historical
drama produced within the last century; published also a volume of lyric poems, besides other
works in prose and verse, including "The Statesman," and a charming "Autobiography," supplemented
later by his no less charming "Correspondence"; received the distinctions of K.C.M.G. (1869)
and D.C.L. (1800-1886).

TAYLOR, ISAAC, a voluminous writer on quasi-philosophic subjects, born in Lavenham, Suffolk;
passed his life chiefly at Ongar engaged in literary pursuits; contributed to the Eclectic
Review, Good Words, and wrote amongst other works "Natural History of Enthusiasm," "Natural
History of Fanaticism," "Spiritual Despotism" and "Ultimate Civilisation" (1787-1865). His
eldest son, Isaac, entered the Church, and rose to be rector of Settrington, in Yorkshire,
and was collated to a canonry of York in 1885; has a wide reputation as a philologist, and
author of "Words and Places," and "The Alphabet, an Account of the Origin and Development of
Letters," besides "Etruscan Researches," "The Origin of the Aryans," etc.; b. 1829.

TAYLOR, JEREMY, great English divine and preacher, born at Cambridge, son of a barber; educated
at Caius College; became a Fellow of All Souls', Oxford; took orders; attracted the attention
of Laud; was made chaplain to the king, and appointed to the living of Uppingham; on the sequestration
of his living in 1642 joined the king at Oxford, and adhered to the royal cause through the
Civil War; suffered much privation, and imprisonment at times; returning to Wales, he procured
the friendship and enjoyed the patronage of the Earl of Carberry, in whose mansion at Grove
he wrote a number of his works; before the Restoration he received preferment in Ireland, and
after that event was made bishop, first of Down and then of Dromore; his life here was far
from a happy one, partly through insubordination in his diocese and partly through domestic
sorrow; his works are numerous, but the principal are his "Liberty of Prophesying," "Holy Living
and Holy Dying," "Life of Christ," "Ductor Dubitantium," a work on casuistry; he was a good
man and a faithful, more a religious writer than a theological; his books are read more for
their devotion than their divinity, and they all give evidence of luxuriance of imagination,
to which the epithet "florid" has not inappropriately been applied; in Church matters he was
a follower of Laud (1613-1667).

TAYLOR, JOHN, known as the "Water-Poet," born at Gloucester; was successively a waterman on
the Thames, a sailor in the navy, public-house keeper in Oxford, etc.; walked from London to
Edinburgh, "not carrying any money to or fro, neither begging, borrowing, or asking meat, drink,
or lodging," and described the journey in his "Penniless Pilgrimage"; wrote also "Travels in
Germanie," and enjoyed considerable repute in his time as a humorous rhymester (1580-1654).

TAYLOR, TOM, a noted playwright and journalist, born at Sunderland; was elected to a Fellowship
at Cambridge, for two years filled the chair of English Literature at University College, London;
in 1845 was called to the bar, but shortly afterwards took to journalism, writing leaders for
the Morning Chronicle and Daily News; during 1850-1872 held secretarial appointments to the
Board of Health and in the Local Government Act Office; succeeded Shirley Brooks as editor
of Punch in 1874; was throughout his life a prolific writer and adapter of plays, staging upwards
of 100 pieces, of which the best known are "To Parents and Guardians," "Still Waters Run Deep,"
"Our American Cousin," "Ticket-of-Leave Man," etc. (1817-1880).

TAYLOR, WILLIAM, literary historian and critic, born at Norwich; residence on the Continent
enabled him to master French, Italian, and especially German, and confirmed him in his taste
for literature, to pursue which he abandoned business; various essays and reviews formed the
groundwork of his elaborate "Historic Survey of German Literature," the first systematic survey
of German literature presented to English readers; taught German to George Borrow, who in "Lavengro"
sketched his interesting personality, which may be further studied in his correspondence with
Southey, Scott, etc. (1765-1836).

TAYLOR, ZACHARY, twelfth President of the United States, born in Orange County, Virginia; obtained
a lieutenancy in the navy in 1808; first saw service in Indian wars on the north-west frontier;
in 1836 cleared the Indians from Florida and won the brevet of brigadier-general; great victories
over the Mexicans on the Texan frontier during 1845-48 raised his popularity to such a pitch
that on his return he was carried triumphantly into the Presidency; the burning questions of
his brief term of office were the proposed admission of California as a free State and the
extension of slavery into the newly-acquired territory; was a man of strong character, a daring
and skilful general, of unassuming manners, and loved by the mass of the people, to whom he
was known as "Old Rough and Ready" (1784-1850).

TAYLOR INSTITUTE, a building in Oxford erected from bequests by Sir Robert Taylor and Dr. Randolph
as a gallery to contain works of art left to the university, and which contains a noble collection.

TE DEUM (Thee, O God), a grand hymn in Latin, so called from the first words, sung at matins
and on occasions of joy and thanksgiving; of uncertain authorship; is called also the Ambrosian
Hymn, as ascribed, though without foundation, to St. Ambrose; is with more reason seemingly
ascribed to Hilary, bishop of Aries.

TEAZLE, LADY, the heroine in Sheridan's "School for Scandal," married to a man old enough to
be her father, Sir Peter Teazle.

TECK, a German principality, named after a castle which crowns an eminence called "The Teck,"
in the Swabian Alb, 20 m. SE. of Stuttgart, conferred in 1868 on Duke Albert of Würtemberg's
son, who in 1866 married the Princess Mary of Cambridge; their daughter, Princess May, became
in 1893 the Duchess of York.

TEES, English river, rises on Cross Fell, Cumberland, and flows E., forming the boundary between
Durham and York; enters the North Sea 4 m. below Stockton.

TEGNER, ESAIAS, a popular Swedish poet, born at Kyrkerud, the son of a country parson; graduated
with distinction at Lund University in 1802, and shortly afterwards became lecturer in Philosophy;
in 1812, already a noted poet, he was called to the chair of Greek, and in later years was
the devoted bishop of Vexiö; his poems, of which "Frithiof's Saga" is reckoned the finest,
have the clearness and finish of classic models, but are charged with the fire and vigour of
modern romanticism (1782-1846).

TEGUCIGALPA (12), capital of Honduras, situated near the centre of the country at a height
of 3400 ft., in the fertile valley of the Rio Grande, surrounded by mountains; has a cathedral
and university.

TEHAMA, a low, narrow plain in Arabia, W. of the mountain range which overlooks the Red Sea.

TEHERAN (210), capital of Persia, stands on a plain near the Elburz Mountains, 70 m. S. of
the Caspian Sea; is surrounded by a bastioned rampart and ditch, 10 m. in circumference, and
entered by 12 gateways; much of it is of modern construction and handsomely laid out with parks,
wide streets, and imposing buildings, notable among which are the shah's palace and the British
Legation, besides many of the bazaars and wealthy merchant's houses; heat during the summer
drives the court, foreign embassies, and others to the cooler heights in the N.; staple industries
are the manufactures of carpets, silks, cottons, &c.

TEHUANTEPEC, an isthmus in Mexico, 140 m. across, between a gulf of the name and the Bay of
Campeachy; it contains on the Pacific coast a town (24) of the same name, with manufactures
and pearl fisheries.

TEIGNMOUTH (8), a watering-place and port of Devonshire, on the estuary of the Teign (here
crossed by a wooden bridge 1671 ft. long), 12 m. S. of Exeter; has a Benedictine nunnery, baths,
pier, &c.; does some shipbuilding.

TEINDS, in Scotland tithes derived from the produce of the land for the maintenance of the clergy.

TELAMONES, figures, generally colossal, of men supporting entablatures, as Caryatides of women.

TEL-EL-KEBIR (the "Great Mound"), on the edge of the Egyptian desert, midway between Ismaila
and Cairo, the scene of a memorable victory by the British forces under Sir Garnet Wolseley
over the Egyptian forces of Arabi Pasha (September 13, 1882), which brought the war to a close.

TELEMACHUS, the son of Ulysses and Penelope (q. v.), who an infant when his father left for
Troy was a grown-up man on his return; having gone in quest of his father after his long absence
found him on his return in the guise of a beggar, and whom he assisted in slaying his mother's
suitors.

TELEOLOGY, the doctrine of final causes, particularly the argument for the being and character
of God from the being and character of His works, that the end reveals His purpose from the
beginning, the end being regarded as the thought of God at the beginning, or the universe viewed
as the realisation of Him and His eternal purpose.

TELEPATHY, name given to the supposed power of communication between mind and mind otherwise
than by the ordinary sense vehicles.

TELFORD, THOMAS, a celebrated engineer, born, the son of a shepherd, in Westerkirk parish,
Eskdale; served an apprenticeship to a stone-mason, and after a sojourn in Edinburgh found
employment in London in 1782; as surveyor of public works for Shropshire in 1787 constructed
bridges over the Severn, and planned and superintended the Ellesmere Canal connecting the Dee,
Mersey, and Severn; his reputation now made, he was in constant demand by Government, and was
entrusted with the construction of the Caledonian Canal, the great road between London and
Holyhead (including the Menai Suspension Bridge), and St. Katherine Docks, London; but his
bridges, canals, harbours, and roads are to be found in all parts of the kingdom, and bear
the stamp of his thorough and enduring workmanship; "the Colossus of Roads," Southey called
him (1757-1834).

TELL, a fertile strip of land of 47 m. of average breadth in North-West Africa, between the
mountains and the Mediterranean Sea; produces cereals, wine, &c.

TELL, WILLIAM, Swiss hero and patriot, a peasant, native of the canton of Uri, who flourished
in the beginning of the 14th century; resisted the oppression of the Austrian governor Gessler,
and was taken prisoner, but was promised his liberty if with his bow and arrow he could hit
an apple on the head of his son, a feat he accomplished with one arrow, with the second arrow
in his belt, which he told Gessler he had kept to shoot him with if he had failed. This so
incensed the governor that he bound him to carry off to his castle; but as they crossed the
lake a storm arose, and Tell had to be unbound to save them, when he leapt upon a rock and
made off, to lie in ambush, whence he shot the oppressor through the heart as he passed him;
a rising followed, which ended only with the emancipation of Switzerland from the yoke of Austria.

TELLEZ, GABRIEL, the assumed name of Tirso de Molina, Spanish dramatist, born in Madrid; became
a monk; wrote 58 comedies, some of which keep their place on the Spanish stage; as a dramatist
ranks next to Lope de Vega, whose pupil he was (1583-1648).

TELLICHERRI (27), a seaport on the Malabar coast, Madras Presidency, India; is fortified and
garrisoned; surrounding country is pretty, as well as productive of coffee, cardamoms, and
sandal-wood.

TELLURIUM, a rare metal usually found in combination with other metals.

TEMESVAR (40), a royal free city of Hungary, on the Bega Canal, 75 m. NE. of Belgrade; is a
strongly-fortified, well-built city, equipped with theatre, schools, colleges, hospitals, &c.,
and possesses a handsome Gothic cathedral and ancient castle; manufactures flour, woollens,
silks, paper, &c.

TEMPE, VALE OF, a valley in the NE. of Thessaly, lying between Olympus on the N. and Ossa on
the S., traversed by the river Peneus, and for the beauty of its scenery celebrated by the
Greek poets as a favourite haunt of Apollo and the Muses; it is rather less than 5 m. in length,
and opens eastward into a spacious plain.

TEMPLARS, a famous order of knights which flourished during the Middle Ages, and originated
in connection with the Crusades. Its founders were Hugues de Payen and Geoffroi de St. Omer,
who, along with 17 other French knights, in 1119 formed themselves into a brotherhood, taking
vows of chastity and poverty, for the purpose of convoying, in safety from attacks of Saracens
and infidels, pilgrims to the Holy Land. King Baldwin II. of Jerusalem granted them a residence
in a portion of his palace, built on the site of the Temple of Solomon, and close to the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre, which became the special object of their protection. Hence their assumption
of the name "Templars." The order rapidly increased in numbers, and drew members from all classes.
"The Templar was the embodiment of the two strongest passions of the Middle Ages--the desire
for military renown and for a monk's life." A constitution was drawn up by Bernard of Clairvaux
(1128), and later three ranks were recognised--the knights, who alone wore the mantle of white
linen and red cross, men-at-arms, and lower retainers, while a grand-master, seneschal, and
other officers were created. During the first 150 years of their existence the Templars increased
enormously in power; under papal authority they enjoyed many privileges, such as exemption
from taxes, tithes, and interdict. After the capture of Jerusalem by the infidels Cyprus became
in 1291 their head-quarters, and subsequently France. But their usefulness was at an end, and
their arrogance, luxury, and quarrels with the Hospitallers had alienated the sympathies of
Christendom. Measures of the cruellest and most barbarous kind were taken for their suppression
by Philip the Fair of France, supported by Pope Clement IV. Between 1306 and 1314 hundreds
were burned at the stake, the order scattered, and their possessions confiscated.

TEMPLE, FREDERICK, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Santa Maura, in Leukas, one of the Ionian
Islands; was highly distinguished at Balliol College, Oxford, as graduate, fellow, and tutor;
in 1846 became Principal of Kneller Hall Training College, was one of H.M. Inspectors of Schools,
and during 1858 and 1869 was head-master of Rugby; a Liberal in politics, he supported the
disestablishment of the Irish Church, and as a Broad-Churchman was elected to the bishopric
of Exeter (1869), of London (1885), and in 1896 was consecrated Archbishop of Canterbury; contributed
to the celebrated "Essays and Reviews"; published "Sermons Preached in Rugby Chapel," and in
1884 was Bampton Lecturer; b. 1821.

TEMPLE, SIR WILLIAM, diplomatist and essayist, born in London, and educated at Cambridge; travel
on the Continent, courtship, and marriage, and some years of quiet and studious retirement
in Ireland, occupied him during the Protectorate; in 1660 was returned to the Convention Parliament
at Dublin, and five years later, having resettled in England, began his diplomatic career,
the most notable success in which was his arrangement in 1668 of the Triple Alliance between
England, Holland, and Sweden to hold in check the growing power of France; as ambassador at
The Hague became friendly with the Prince of Orange, whose marriage with the Princess Mary
(daughter of James II.) he negotiated; was recalled in 1671, but after the Dutch War returned
to his labours at The Hague, and in 1679 carried through the Peace of Nimeguen; although offered
a State Secretaryship more than once, shrank from the responsibilities of office under Charles
II., a diffidence he again showed in the reign of William III.; the later years of his life
were spent in Epicurean ease, in the enjoyment of his garden, and in the pursuit of letters
at his villa at Sheen, and, after 1686, at Moor Park, in Surrey, where he had Swift for secretary;
is remembered in constitutional history for his scheme (a failure ultimately) to put the king
more completely under the check of the Privy Council by remodelling its constitution; was a
writer of considerable distinction, his miscellaneous essays and memoirs being notable for
grace and perspicuity of style (1628-1699).

TEMPLE, THE, of Jerusalem, a building constructed on the same plan and for the same purpose
as the TABERNACLE (q. v.), only of larger dimensions, more substantial and costly materials,
and a more ornate style; it was a magnificent structure, contained treasures of wealth, and
was the pride of the Hebrew people. There were three successive structures that bore the name--Solomon's,
built by Solomon in 1004 B.C., and destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar in 588 B.C.; Zerubbabel's, built
in 515, and pillaged and desecrated by Antiochus Epiphanes in 167 B.C.; and Herod's, on the
ruins of the former, begun in 16 B.C., finished in 29 A.D., and destroyed by Titus in 70 A.D.
All three were built on Mount Moriah, on the spot where Abraham offered up Isaac, and where
David afterwards raised an altar to the Lord; and of the number the palm must be given to the
Temple of Solomon, it was the Temple par excellence.

TEMPLE BAR, a famous London gateway, which formerly divided Fleet Street from the Strand; pressure
of traffic caused its removal in 1879; now stands in Theobald's Park, Cheshunt.

TENASSERIM (972), the southernmost division of Burma, forms a long coastal strip facing the
Bay of Bengal and backed by the mountain barrier of Siam; acquired by the British in 1825.

TENBY (5), a popular little watering-place of Pembrokeshire, has a rocky site on Carmarthen
Bay coast; ruins of its old wall and of a castle still remain; has a fine 13th-century Gothic
church, marble statue of the Prince Consort, &c., while its extensive sands and splendid bathing
facilities attract crowds of summer visitors.

TENCIN, MADAME DE, a French writer of romances, a woman of clever wit and of personal charms,
who abandoned a religious life and, coming to Paris in 1714, immersed herself in the political
and fashionable life of the city; was not too careful of her morals, and ranked among her lovers
the Regent, Fontenelle, and Cardinal Dubois; used her influence against the Jansenists; more
circumspect in later life she presided over a fashionable salon; was the mother of D'Alembert
(1681-1749).

TENDON ACHILLES, name given to the tendon of the leg above the heel, so called as being the
tendon by which Thetis held Achilles when she dipped him in the Styx, and where alone he was
in consequence vulnerable.

TENEDOS, a rocky but fertile little island belonging to Turkey, in the Ægean, 3 m. off the
mainland of Turkey in Asia, and 12 m. S. of the entrance to the Dardanelles; it was the place
the Greeks made a feint they had returned to during the Trojan War.

TENERIFE (108), the largest of the Canary Islands (q. v.), of volcanic formation, with cliff-bound
coast; richly fruit-bearing; chief exports, cochineal, tobacco, and wine; capital, SANTA CRUZ
(q. v.); most notable natural feature is the famous Peak of Tenerife, a conical-shaped dormant
volcano, 12,000 ft. in height, at the summit of which there is a crater 300 ft. in circuit;
last eruption took place in 1798.

TENIERS, DAVID, the elder (1582-1649), and DAVID TENIERS, the younger (1610-1690), father and
son, both famous masters of the Flemish school of painting, and natives of Antwerp; the greater
genius belonged to the younger, who carried his father's gift of depicting rural and homely
life to a higher pitch of perfection.

TENNANT, WILLIAM, a minor Scottish poet, born at Anstruther, Fife; was educated at St. Andrews,
and after a short experience of business life betook himself to teaching in 1813, filling posts
at Dunino, Lasswade, and Dollar; his most notable poem, "Anster Fair" (1812), was warmly received,
and in 1835 his knowledge of Eastern languages won him the chair of Oriental Languages in St.
Andrews (1784-1848).

TENNEMANN, W. GOTTLIEB, German historian of philosophy; was professor at Marburg; wrote both
a history and a manual of philosophy (1761-1819).

TENNESSEE (1,768, of which 434 are coloured), one of the central States of the American Union,
lies S. of Kentucky, and stretches from the Mississippi (W.) to North Carolina (E.); is one-third
larger than Ireland; politically it is divided into three districts with characteristic natural
features; East Tennessee, mountainous, with ridges of the Appalachians, possessing inexhaustible
stores of coal, iron, and copper; Middle Tennessee, an undulating, wheat, corn, and tobacco-growing
country; and West Tennessee, with lower-lying plains growing cotton, and traversed by the Tennessee
River, the largest affluent of the Ohio; Nashville is the capital and largest city; became
a State in 1796.

TENNIEL, JOHN, a celebrated cartoonist who, since 1864, has week by week drawn the chief political
cartoon in Punch, the merits of which are too well known to need comment; illustrations to
"Æsop's Fables," "Ingoldsby Legends," "Alice in Wonderland," and other works, reveal the grace
and delicacy of his workmanship; born in London, and practically a self-taught artist; joined
the staff of Punch in 1851; was knighted in 1893; b. 1820.

TENNYSON, ALFRED, LORD, poet-laureate, born at Somersby, in Lincolnshire, son of a clergyman,
and of aristocratic descent; was educated at the grammar school of Louth and at Trinity College,
Cambridge, which latter he left without taking a degree; having already devoted himself to
the "Ars Poetica," an art which he cultivated more and more all his life long; entered the
university in 1828, and issued his first volume of poems in 1830, though he had four years
previously contributed to a small volume conjointly with a brother; to the poems of 1830 he
added others, and published them in 1833 and 1842, after which, endowed by a pension from the
Civil List of £200, he produced the "Princess" in 1847, and "In Memoriam" in 1850; was in 1851
appointed to the laureateship, and next in that capacity wrote his "Ode on the Death of the
Duke of Wellington"; in 1855 appeared his "Maud," in 1859 the first four of his "Idylls of
the King," which were followed by "Enoch Arden" and the "Northern Farmer" in 1864, and by a
succession of other pieces too numerous to mention here; he was raised to the peerage in 1884
on the recommendation of Mr. Gladstone; he was a poet of the ideal, and was distinguished for
the exquisite purity of his style and the harmony of his rhythm; had a loving veneration for
the past, and an adoring regard for everything pure and noble, and if he indulged in a vein
of sadness at all, as he sometimes did, it was when he saw, as he could not help seeing, the
feebler hold regard for such things had on the men and women of his generation than the worship
of Mammon; Carlyle thought affectionately but plaintively of him, "One of the finest-looking
men in the world," he writes to Emerson; "never had such company over a pipe!... a truly interesting
son of earth and son of heaven ... wanted a task, with which that of spinning rhymes, and naming
it 'art' and 'high art' in a time like ours, would never furnish him" (1809-1892).

TENTERDEN, a market-town in Kent, once a Cinque Port; the steeple of the church of which is
reported to have been the cause of the Goodwin Sands, the stones intended for the dyke which
kept the sea off having been used instead to repair the church.

TENTERDEN, LORD, English judge, born at Canterbury; wrote a "Treatise on the Law relative to
Merchant Ships and Seamen"; was raised to the peerage; an obstinate enemy of Reform (1762-1832).

TEOCALLI, among the ancient Mexicans a spirally-terraced pyramidal structure surmounted by
a temple containing images of the gods.

TEPLITZ (15), a popular health resort in N. Bohemia, finely situated in a valley between the
Erzgebirge and Mittelgebirge, 20 m. NW. of Leitmeritz; its thermal springs are celebrated for
the cure of gout, rheumatism, &c.

TERAPHIM, small images, a sort of household gods among the Hebrews, consulted as oracles, and
endowed with some magic virtue.

TERATOLOGY, the branch of biology which treats of malformations or departures from the normal type.

TERBURG, GERHARD, a noted Dutch painter, whose portraits and genre pictures are to be found
in most of the great European galleries; born at Zwolle; after travelling in Germany, Italy,
England, and Spain, settled at Deventer, where he became burgomaster; his most famous pictures
are a portrait of William of Orange, "Father's Advice," and his "Congress of Münster, 1648,"
which last was bought for £7280 and presented to the National Gallery, London (16081681).

TERCEIRA (45), the second largest of the Azores; rears cattle, and yields grain, oranges, &c.;
chief town Angra, capital of the group.

TERENCE, Roman comic poet, born at Carthage; brought thence as a slave; educated by his master,
a Roman senator, and set free; composed plays, adaptations of others in Greek by Menander and
Apollodorus; they depict Greek manners for Roman imitation in a pure and perfect Latin style,
and with great dramatic skill (185-159 B.C.).

TEREUS. See PHILOMELA.

TERMINUS, in Roman mythology a deity who presided over boundaries, the worship of whom was
instituted by Numa (q. v.).

TERPSICHORË, the Muse of choral song and dancing.

TERRA-COTTA, a composition of fine clay and fine colourless sand moulded into shapes and baked
to hardness.

TERRAY, ABBÉ, "dissolute financier" of Louis XV.; "paying eightpence in the shilling, so that
wits exclaim in some press at the play-house, 'Where is Abbé Terray that he might reduce it
to two-thirds!'"; lived a scandalous life, and ingratiated himself with Madame Pompadour; he
held his post till the accession of Louis XVI., and fell with his iniquitous colleagues (1715-1778).

TERRE-HAUTE (37), capital of Vigo County, Indiana, stands on a plateau overlooking the Wabash,
178 m. S. of Chicago; is situated in a rich coal district, and has numerous foundries and various
factories; is well equipped with schools and other public institutions.

TERRY, ELLEN (Mrs. Charles Kelly), the most celebrated of living English actresses, born at
Coventry; made her début at the early age of eight, appearing as Mamilius in "The Winter's
Tale," at the Princess Theatre, then under the management of Charles Kean; during 1864--74
she lived in retirement, but returning to the stage in 1875 achieved her first great success
in the character of Portia; played for some time with the Bancrofts and at the Court Theatre;
in December 1878 made her first appearance at the Lyceum Theatre, then under the management
of HENRY IRVING (q. v.), with whose subsequent successful career her own is inseparably associated,
sharing with him the honours of a long list of memorable Shakespearian and other performances;
b. 1848.

TERSANCTUS, the ascription of praise, Holy, Holy, Holy, preliminary to the consecrating prayer
in Holy Communion.

TERTULLIAN, QUINTUS SEPTIMIUS FLORENS, one of the Latin Fathers, born at Carthage, the son
of a Roman centurion; was well educated; bred a rhetorician; was converted to Christianity,
became presbyter of Carthage, and embraced MONTANIST VIEWS (q. v.); wrote numerous works, apologetical,
polemical, doctrinal, and practical, the last of an ascetic tendency (150-230).

TEST ACT, act of date 1673, now repealed, requiring all officials under the crown to take the
oath of allegiance and supremacy, &c.; directed equally against Dissenters, Roman Catholics, &c.

TESTUDO (tortoise-shell), in ancient Roman warfare a covering of the shields of the soldiers
held over their heads as protection against missiles thrown from the walls when besieging a city.

TETANUS or LOCK-JAW, a nervous affection of a most painful and fatal character, which usually
begins with intensely painful and persistent cramp of the muscles of the throat and jaws, spreading
down to the larger muscles of the body. As the disease progresses the muscles become more and
more rigid, while the paroxysms of pain increase in violence and frequency. Death as a rule
results from either sheer exhaustion or failure of breath through the spasmodic closure of
the glottis. The cause of the disease is now ascertained to be due to the action of a microbe,
which may find an entrance through any wound or abrasion of the skin, not necessarily of the
thumb as is the popular belief.

TETHYS, in the Greek mythology a daughter of Uranus and Gaia, wife of OCEANUS (q. v.), and
mother of the river-gods.

TETRAGRAMMATON, the mystic number "four," symbolical of deity, whose name in different languages
is composed of four letters.

TETUAN (22), a port and walled town of Morocco, on the Martil, 4 m. above its entrance into
the Mediterranean and 22 m. S. of Ceuta; has a fortified castle and wall-towers; exports provisions
to Ceuta, and has a good trade in fruit, wool, silk, cotton, &c.

TETZEL, JOHN, a Dominican monk, born at Leipzig; was employed in the sale of indulgences to
all who subscribed to the fund for building St. Peter's at Rome, in opposition to whom and
his doings Luther published his celebrated theses in 1517, and whose extravagances involved
him in the censure of the Church (1455-1519).

TEUFELSDRÖCK, the hero of "Sartor" and prototype of the author as a thinker and a man in relation
to the spirit of the time, which is such that it rejects him as its servant, and he rejects
it as his master; the word means "outcast of the devil," and the devil is the spirit of the
time, which the author and his prototype here has, God-compelled, risen up in defiance of and
refused to serve under; for a time the one or the other tried to serve it, till they discovered
the slavery the attempt more and more involved them in, when they with one bold effort tore
asunder the bands that bound them, and with an "Everlasting No" achieved at one stroke their
emancipation; a man this born to look through the show of things into things themselves.

TEUTONIC KNIGHTS, like the TEMPLARS (q. v.) and Hospitallers, a religious order of knighthood
which arose during the period of the Crusades, originally for the purpose of tending wounded
crusaders; subsequently became military in character, and besides the care of the sick and
wounded included among its objects aggressive warfare upon the heathen; was organised much
in the same way as the Templars, and like them acquired extensive territorial possessions;
during the 14th and 15th centuries were constantly at war with the heathen Wends and Lithuanians,
but the conversion of these to Christianity and several defeats destroyed both the prestige
and usefulness of the knights, and the order thenceforth began to decline. As a secularised,
land-owning order the knighthood lasted till 1809, when it was entirely suppressed in Germany
by Napoleon; but branches still exist in the Netherlands and in Austria, where care for the
wounded in war has been resumed.

TEUTONS, the most energetic and progressive section of the Aryan group of nations, embracing
the following races speaking languages traceable to a common stock: (1) Germanic, including
Germans, Dutch, Flemings, and English; (2) Scandinavian, embracing Danes, Swedes, Norwegians,
Icelanders. But naturally Celts and other race-elements have in the course of centuries entered
into the composition of these peoples.

TEWFIK PASHA, MOHAMMED, khedive of Egypt from the time of his father's abdication in 1879;
a man of simple tastes and religious disposition, friendly and loyal to the English; Arabi
Pasha's insurrection, closed at TEL-EL-KEBIR (q. v.), the Mahdi's rising and capture of Khartoum,
occurred during his reign, which, however, also witnessed Egypt's steadily increasing prosperity
under English rule (1852-1892).

TEWKESBURY (5), a market-town of Gloucestershire, at the confluence of the Avon and Severn
(here spanned by one of Telford's bridges), 10 m. NE. of Gloucester; possesses one of the finest
of old English churches in the Norman style; trades chiefly in agricultural produce; half a
mile distant is the field of the battle of Tewkesbury (May 4, 1471), where the Yorkists under
Edward IV. crushed the Lancastrians.

TEXAS (2,236, including 493 coloured), the largest of the United States of America, in the
extreme SW., fronts the Gulf of Mexico for 400 m. between Mexico (W.) and Louisiana (E.); has
an area more than twice that of the British Isles, exhibiting a great variety of soil from
rich alluvial valleys and pastoral prairies to arid deserts of sand in the S. Climate in the
S. is semi-tropical, in the N. colder and drier. The useful metals are found in abundance,
but agriculture and stock-raising are the chief occupations, Texas being the leading cattle-raising
and cotton State in the Union; seceded from the republic of Mexico in 1835, and was an independent
State till 1845, when it was annexed to the American Union. Austin is the capital and Galveston
the principal port.

TEXEL (7), an island of North Holland, situated at the entrance to the Zuider Zee and separated
from the mainland by a narrow strait called the Marsdiep, the scene of several memorable naval
engagements between the Dutch and English; staple industries are sheep and dairy farming.

TEZCUCO (15), a city of Mexico which, under the name Acolhuacan, was once a centre of Aztec
culture, of which there are interesting remains still extant; is situated on a salt lake bearing
the same name, 25 m. NE. of Mexico City.

THACKERAY, WILLIAM MAKEPEACE, novelist, born in Calcutta, educated at the Charterhouse and
at Trinity College, Cambridge; after leaving college, which he did without taking a degree,
travelled on the Continent, making long stays at Rome and Paris, and "the dear little Saxon
town (Weimar) where Goethe lived"; his ambition was to be an artist, but failing in that and
pecuniary resources, he turned to literature; in straitened circumstances at first wrote for
the journals of the day and contributed to Punch, in which the well-known "Snob Papers" and
"Jeames's Diary" originally appeared; in 1840 he produced the "Paris Sketch-Book," his first
published work, but it was not till 1847 the first of his novels, "Vanity Fair," was issued
in parts, which was followed in 1848 by "Pendennis," in 1852 by "Esmond," in 1853 by "The Newcomes,"
in 1857 by "The Virginians," in 1862 by "Philip," and in 1863 by "Denis Duval"; in 1852 he
lectured in the United States on "The English Humorists of the Eighteenth Century," and in
1855 on "The Four Georges," while in 1860 he was appointed first editor of Cornhill. When "Vanity
Fair" was issuing, Mrs. Carlyle wrote her husband: "Very good indeed; beats Dickens out of
the world"; but his greatest effort was "Esmond," which accordingly is accounted "the most
perfect, artistically, of his fictions." Of Thackeray, in comparison with Dickens, M. Taine
says, he was "more self-contained, better instructed and stronger, a lover of moral dissertations,
a counsellor of the public, a sort of lay preacher, less bent on defending the poor, more bent
on censuring man; brought to the aid of satire a sustained common-sense, great knowledge of
the heart, consummate cleverness, powerful reasoning, a store of meditated hatred, and persecuted
vice with all the weapons of reflection... His novels are a war against the upper classes of
his country" (1811-1863).

THAÏS, an Athenian courtezan who accompanied Alexander the Great on his expedition into Asia;
had children after his death to Ptolemy Lagi.

THALBERG, SIGISMUND, a celebrated pianist, born at Geneva; early displayed a talent for music
and languages; was intended and trained for a diplomatic career, but, overcoming his father's
scruples, followed his bent for music, and soon took rank as one of the most brilliant pianists
of the age; "Thalberg," said Liszt, "is the only pianist who can play the violin on the key-board";
composed a large number of pianoforte pieces, chiefly fantasias and variations (1812-1871).

THALES, philosopher of Greece, and one of her seven sages; was a philosopher of the physical
school, and the father of philosophy in general, as the first to seek and find within Nature
an explanation of Nature; "the principle of all things is water," he says; "all comes from
water, and to water all returns"; flourished about the close of the 7th century B.C.

THALIA, one of the THREE GRACES (q. v.), as also of the NINE MUSES (q. v.).

THALLIUM, a rare metallic element similar to lead, but heavier, discovered in 1861 by the green
in the spectrum in the flame as it was being volatilised.

THAMES, the most important river of Great Britain, formed by the junction at Lechdale of four
head-streams--the Isis, Churn, Coln, and Leach--which spring from the SE. slope of the Cotswold
Hills; winds across the southern midlands eastwards till in a wide estuary it enters the North
Sea; forms the boundary-line between several counties, and passes Oxford, Windsor, Eton, Richmond,
London, Woolwich, and Gravesend; navigable for barges to Lechdale, and for ocean steamers to
Tilbury Docks; tide is felt as far as Teddington, 80 m.; length estimated at 250 m.

THANE or THEGN, a title of social distinction among the Anglo-Saxons, bestowed, in the first
instance, upon men bound in military service to the king, and who came to form a nobility of
service as distinguished from a nobility of blood; these obtained grants of land, and had thegns
under them; in this way the class of thegns widened; subsequently the name was allowed to the
ceorl who had acquired four hides of land and fulfilled certain requirements; after the Norman
Conquest the thegnhood practically embraced the knighthood; the name dropped out of use after
Henry II.'s reign, but lasted longer in Scotland.

THANET, ISLE OF (58), forms the NE. corner of Kent, from the mainland of which it is separated
by the Stour and the rivulet Nethergong; on its shores, washed by the North Sea, stand the
popular watering-places, Ramsgate, Margate, and Broadstairs; the north-eastern extremity, the
North Foreland, is crowned by a lighthouse.

THASOS (5), an island of Turkey, in the Ægean Sea, near the Macedonian coast; is mountainous
and richly wooded; inhabited almost entirely by Greeks.

THAUMUZ. See TAUMUZ.

THÉÂTRE FRANÇAIS, theatre in the Palais Royal, Paris, where the French classic plays are produced
and rendered by first-class artistes.

THEBAÏDE, a desert in Upper Egypt; the retreat in early times of a number of Christian hermits.

THEBANS, name given to the inhabitants of Boeotia, from Thebes, the capital; were reckoned
dull and stupid by the Athenians.

THEBES, an ancient city of Egypt of great renown, once capital of Upper Egypt; covered 10 sq.
m. of the valley of the Nile on both sides of the river, 300 m. SE. of Cairo; now represented
by imposing ruins of temples, palaces, tombs, and statues of colossal size, amid which the
humble dwellings of four villages--Luxor, Karnack, Medinet Habu, and Kurna--have been raised.
The period of its greatest flourishing extended from about 1600 to 1100 B.C., but some of its
ruins have been dated as far back as 2500 B.C.

THEBES, capital of the ANCIENT GRECIAN STATE BOEOTIA (q. v.), whose site on the slopes of Mount
Teumessus, 44 m. NW. of Athens, is now occupied by the village of Thiva; its legendary history,
embracing the names of Cadmus, Dionysus, Hercules, Oedipus, &c., and authentic struggles with
Athens and Sparta during the Peloponnesian War, its rise to supremacy under Epaminondas over
all Greece, and its destruction by Alexander, have all combined to place it amongst the most
famous cities of ancient Greece.

THEISM, belief in the existence of God associated in general with a belief in Providence and
Revelation.

THEISS, the longest river of Hungary and largest of the affluents of the Danube; is formed
in East Hungary by the confluence of the White Theiss and the Black Theiss, both springing
from south-western slopes of the Carpathians; after a great sweep to the NW. bends round to
the S., and flows steadily southward through the centre of Hungary until it joins the Danube
20 m. above Belgrade, after a course of 750 m.; with its greater tributaries, the Maros and
the Bodrog, it forms a splendid means of internal commerce.

THEMIS, in the Greek mythology the goddess of the established order of things; was a daughter
of Uranos and Gaia, and the spouse of Zeus, through whom she became the mother of the divinities
concerned in maintaining order among, at once, gods and men.

THEMISTOCLES, celebrated Athenian general and statesman; rose to political power on the ostracism
of Aristides, his rival; persuaded the citizens to form a fleet to secure the command of the
sea against Persian invasion; commanded at Salamis, and routed the fleet of Xerxes, and afterwards
accomplished the fortification of the city in spite of the opposition of Sparta, but falling
in popular favour was ostracised, and took refuge at the court of Artaxerxes of Persia, where
he died in high favour with the king (520-453 B.C.).

THEOBALD, LEWIS, Shakespearian critic, born at Sittingbourne, Kent; bred to the law by his
father, an attorney, but took to literature; wrote a tragedy; contributed to Mist's Journal,
and in 1716 began his tri-weekly paper, the Censor; roused Pope's ire by his celebrated pamphlet,
"Shakespeare Restored," an exposure of errors in Pope's edition, and although ruthlessly impaled
in his "Dunciad," of which he was the original hero, made good his claim to genuine Shakespearian
scholarship by his edition, in 1733, of the dramatist's works, an edition which completely
superseded Pope's (1688-1744).

THEOCRACY, government of a State professedly in the name and under the direction as well as
the sanction of Heaven.

THEOCRATES, great pastoral poet of Greece, born at Syracuse; was the creator of bucolic poetry;
wrote "Idyls," as they were called, descriptive of the common life of the common people of
Sicily, in a thoroughly objective, though a truly poetical, spirit, in a style which never
fails to charm, being as fresh as ever; wrote also on epic subjects (300-220 B.C.).

THEODICY, name given to an attempt to vindicate the order of the universe in consistency with
the presence of evil, and specially to that of Leibnitz, in which he demonstrates that this
is the best of all possible worlds.

THEODORA, the famous consort of the ROMAN EMPEROR JUSTINIAN I. (q. v.), who, captivated by
her extraordinary charms of wit and person, raised her from a life of shame to share his throne
(527), a high office she did not discredit; scandal, busy enough with her early years, has
no word to say against her subsequent career as empress; the poor and unfortunate of her own
sex were her special care; remained to the last the faithful helpmate of her husband (508-548).

THEODORE, "King of Corsica," otherwise Baron Theodore de Neuhoff, born in Metz; a soldier of
fortune under the French, Swedish, and Spanish flags successively, whose title to fame is his
expedition to Corsica, aided by the Turks and the Bey of Tunis, in 1736, to aid the islanders
to throw off the Genoese yoke; was crowned King Theodore I., but in a few months was driven
out, and after unsuccessful efforts to regain his position came as an impoverished adventurer
to London, where creditors imprisoned him, and where sympathisers, including Walpole, subscribed
for his release (1686-1756).

THEODORE, bishop of Mopsuestra, in Cilicia, born at Antioch; was a biblical exegete, having
written commentaries on most of the books of the Bible, eschewing the allegorical method of
interpretation, and accepting the literal sense; he held Nestorian views, and his writings
were anathematised; he was a friend of St. Chrysostom; b. 429.

THEODORET, Church historian, born at Antioch; as bishop of the Syrian city, Cyrus, gave himself
to the conversion of the Marcionites; a leader of the Antioch school of theology, he took an
active part in the Nestorian and Eutychian controversies, and was deposed by the so-called
robber-council of Ephesus, but was reinstated by the Council of Chalcedon in 451 (about 390-457).

THEODORIC, surnamed the Great, founder of the monarchy of the Ostro- or East Goths, son of
Theodemir, the Ostrogothic king of Pannonia; was for ten years during his youth a hostage at
the Byzantine Court at Constantinople; succeeded his father in 475, and immediately began to
push the fortunes of the Ostrogoths; various territories fell into his hands, and alarm arose
at the Imperial Court; in 493 advanced upon Italy, overthrew Odoacer, and after his murder
became sole ruler; was now the most powerful of the Gothic kings, with an empire embracing
Italy, Sicily, and Dalmatia, besides German possessions; as a ruler proved himself as wise
as he was strong; became in after years one of the great heroes of German legend, and figures
in the "Nibelungenlied" (455-526).

THEODOSIUS I., THE GREAT, Roman emperor; was the son of Theodosius the Elder, a noted general,
whose campaigns in Britain and elsewhere he participated in; marked out for distinction by
his military prowess he, in 379, was invited by the Emperor Gratian to become emperor in the
East, that he might stem the advancing Goths; in this Theodosius was successful; the Goths
were defeated, conciliated, had territory conceded to them, and became in large numbers Roman
citizens; rebellions in the Western Empire and usurpations of the throne compelled Theodosius
to active interference, which led to his becoming sole head of the empire (394), after successfully
combating the revolutionaries, Franks and others; was a zealous Churchman, and stern suppressor
of the "Arian Heresy"; the close of his reign marks the beginning of the end of the Roman Empire,
for his death opened the floodgates of barbarian invasion, and from this date begins the formation
of the new kingdoms of Europe (346-395).

THEOGNIS, an elegiac poet of Megara; flourished in the second half of the 6th century B.C.;
lost his possessions during a revolution at Megara, in which the democrats overpowered the
aristocrats, to which party he belonged; compelled to live in exile, he found solace in the
writing of poetry full of a practical and prudential wisdom, bitterly biased against democracy,
and tinged with pessimism.

THEOLOGY, the science which treats of God, particularly as He manifests Himself in His relation
to man in nature, reason, or revelation.

THEOPHRASTUS, a peripatetic philosopher, born in Lesbos; pupil, heir, and successor of Aristotle,
and the great interpreter and expounder of his philosophy; was widely famous in his day; his
writings were numerous, but only a few are extant, on plants, stars, and fire; d. 286 B.C.

THEOSOPHY (lit. divine wisdom), a mystic philosophy of very difficult definition which hails
from the East, and was introduced among us by Madame Blavatsky, a Russian lady, who was initiated
into its mysteries in Thibet by a fraternity there who professed to be the sole custodiers
of its secrets as the spiritual successors of those to whom it was at first revealed. The radical
idea of the system appears to be reincarnation, and the return of the spirit to itself by a
succession of incarnations, each one of which raises it to a higher level until, by seven stages
it would seem, the process is complete, matter has become spirit, and spirit matter, God has
become man, and man God, agreeably somewhat to the doctrine of Amiel, that "the complete spiritualisation
of the animal element in us is the task of our race," though with them it seems rather to mean
its extinction. The adherents of this system, with their head-quarters at Madras, are numerous
and wide-scattered, and form an organisation of 300 branches, having three definite aims: (1)
To establish a brotherhood over the world irrespective of race, creed, caste, or sex; (2) to
encourage the study of comparative philosophy, religion, and science; and (3) to investigate
the occult secrets of nature and the latent possibilities of man. The principal books in exposition
of it are, "The Secret Doctrine," "Isis Unveiled," "The Key to Theosophy," by Mme. Blavatsky;
"Esoteric Buddhism," "The Occult World," &c., by Sinnett; "The Ancient Wisdom," "The Birth
and Evolution of the Soul," &c., by Annie Besant.

THERAPEUTÆ, a Jewish ascetic sect in Egypt, who lived a life of celibacy and meditation in
separate hermitages, and assembled for worship on Sabbath.

THERMO-DYNAMICS, name given to the modern science of the relation between heat and work, which
has established two fundamental principles, that when heat is employed to do work, the work
done is the exact equivalent of the heat expended, and when the work is employed to produce
heat, the heat produced is exactly equivalent to the work done.

THERMOPYLÆ (i. e. "the hot gates"), a famous pass in N. Greece, the only traversable one leading
southward into Thessaly, lies 25 m. N. of Delphi, and is flanked on one side by Mount Oeta,
and on the other by the Maliac Gulf (now the Gulf of Zeitouni); for ever memorable as the scene
of Leonidas' heroic attempt with his 300 Spartans to stem the advancing Persian hordes under
Xerxes (480 B.C.); also of Greece's futile struggles against Brennus and the Gauls (279 B.C.),
and Philip the Macedonian (207 B.C.)

THERSITES, a deformed Greek present at the siege of Troy, distinguished for his insolent raillery
at his betters, and who was slain by Achilles for deriding his lamentation over the death of
PENTHESILEA (q. v.).

THESEUS, legendary hero of Attica, and son of Ægeus, king of Athens; ranks second to Hercules,
captured the Marathonian bull, and slew the MINOTAUR (q. v.) by the help of ARIADNE (q. v.);
waged war against the Amazons, and carried off the queen; assisted at the Argonautic expedition,
and is famed for his friendship for Perithous, whom he aided against the Centaurs.

THESPIS, the father of Greek tragedy, hence Thespian art for the drama.

THESSALONIANS, EPISTLE TO THE, epistles of St. Paul to the Church at Thessalonica; of which
there are two; the first written from Corinth about A.D. 53 to exhort them to beware of lapsing,
and comforting them with the hope of the return of the Lord to judgment; the second, within
a few months after the first, to correct a false impression produced by it in connection with
the Lord's coming; they must not, he argued, neglect their ordinary avocations, as though the
day of the Lord was close at hand; that day would not come till the powers of evil had wrought
their worst, and the cup of their iniquity was full; this is the first purely dogmatic epistle
of St. Paul.

THESSALONICA. See SALONICA.

THESSALY, the largest division of ancient Greece, a wide, fertile plain stretching southward
from the Macedonian border to the Maliac Gulf, and entirely surrounded by mountains save the
Vale of Tempe in the NE. between Mounts Ossa and Olympus; was conquered by Philip of Macedon
in the 4th century B.C., and subsequently incorporated in the Roman Empire, on the break up
of which it fell into the hands of the Venetians, and eventually of the Turks (1335), and remained
a portion of the Ottoman Empire till 1881, when the greater and most fertile part was ceded
to Greece. Chief town, Larissa.

THETFORD (4), a historic old market-town on the Norfolk and Suffolk border, at the confluence
of the Thet and Little Ouse, 31 m. SW. of Norwich; a place of importance in Saxon times, and
in Edward III.'s reign an important centre of monasticism; has interesting ruins, a notable
Castle Hill, and industries in brewing, tanning, &c.

THETIS, in the Greek mythology the daughter of NEREUS (q. v.) and Doris, who being married
against her will to Peleus, became the mother of Achilles; she was therefore a NEREID (q. v.),
and gifted with prophetic foresight.

THEURIET, ANDRÉ, modern French poet and novelist, born at Marly le Roi, near Paris; studied
law, and in 1857 received a post in the office of the Minister of Finance; has published several
volumes of poems, dealing chiefly with rustic life, but is more widely known by his novels,
such as "Mademoiselle Guignon," "Le Mariage de Gérard," "Deux Soeurs," &c., all of them more
or less tinged with melancholy, but also inspired by true poetic feeling; b. 1833.

THIALFI, in the Norse mythology the god of manual labour, Thor's henchman and attendant.

THIERRY, JACQUES NICOLAS AUGUSTIN, French historian, born at Blois; came early under the influence
of Saint-Simon, and during 1814-17 lived with him as secretary, assimilating his socialistic
ideas and ventilating them in various compositions; Comte became his master next, and history
his chief study, an outlet for his views on which he found in the Censeur Européen, and the
COURRIER FRANÇAIS, to which he contributed his "Letters on French History" (1820); five years
later appeared his masterpiece, the "Conquest of England," to be followed by "Letters on History"
and "Dix Ans d'Études" (1835), in which same year he was appointed librarian at the Palais
Royal; in 1853 appeared his "Tiers État," the last of his works; has been called the "father
of romantic history," and was above all a historical artist, giving life and colour to his
pictures of bygone ages, but not infrequently at the cost of historic accuracy (1795-1856).

THIERS, LOUIS ADOLPHE, French statesman and historian, born at Marseilles, of parents in poor
circumstances; studied law at Aix, became acquainted with Mignet the historian; went with him
to Paris, and took to journalism; published in 1827 his "History of the French Revolution,"
which established his rank as a writer; contributed to the July revolution; supported Louis
Philippe, and was in 1832 elected a deputy for Aix; obtained a post in the ministry, and eventually
head; was swept out of office at the revolution of 1848; voted for the presidency of Louis
Napoleon, but opposed the coup d'état; withdrew from public life for a time; published in 1860
the "History of the Consulate and the Empire" a labour of years; entered public life again,
but soon retired; at the close of the Franco-German War raised the war indemnity, and saw the
Germans off the soil; became head of the Provisional Government, and President of the Republic
from 1871 to 1873; his histories are very one-sided, and often inaccurate besides; Carlyle's
criticism of his "French Revolution" is well known, "Dig where you will, you come to water"
(1795-1877).

THING, name for a legislative or judicial assembly among the Scandinavians.

THINKER, THE, defined to be "one who, with fresh and powerful glance, reads a new lesson in
the universe, sees deeper into the secret of things, and carries up the interpretation of nature
to higher levels; one who, unperturbed by passions and undistracted by petty detail, can see
deeper than others behind the veil of circumstance, and catch glimpses into the permanent reality."

THIRLMERE, one of the lakes in the English Lake District, in Cumberland, 5 m. SE. of Keswick;
since 1885 its waters have been impounded for the use of Manchester, the surface raised 50
ft. by embankments, and the area more than doubled.

THIRLWALL, CONOP, historian, born at Shepney; was a precocious child, was educated at the Charterhouse,
had Grote for a school-fellow, and was a student of Trinity College, Cambridge; called to the
bar, but took orders in 1827, having two years previously translated Schleiermacher's "Essay
on St. Luke," and was thus the first to introduce German theology into England; wrote a "History
of Greece," which, though superior in some important respects, was superseded by Grote's as
wanting in realistic power, a fatal blemish in a history; was a liberal man, and bishop of
St. David's for half a lifetime (1797-1875).

THIRTY YEARS' WAR, the name given to a series of wars arising out of one another in Germany
during 1618-48; was first a war of Catholics against Protestants, but in its later stages developed
into a struggle for supremacy in Europe. On the Catholic side were Austria, various German
Catholic princes, and Spain, to whom were opposed successively Bohemia, Hungary, Denmark, Sweden,
and France; originated in Bohemia, where the Protestants were goaded to revolt against the
intolerance of the empire, Moravians and Hungarians came to their assistance, but the imperial
forces were too powerful and the rising was suppressed, only to be renewed in 1624, when Denmark
espoused the Protestant cause, but struggled vainly against Catholic armies under Wallenstein
and Tilly. The tactless oppression of the Emperor Ferdinand again fanned into flame the fires
of rebellion; Swedish armies now came to the assistance of the Protestants, and under Gustavus
Adolphus waged successful war against the emperor, but the death of Gustavus at Lützen (1632)
turned the tide in favour of the imperial forces; the German Protestant prince made a disadvantageous
peace in 1635, but Sweden, now joined by France, continued the struggle against the Austrian
empire. Turenne and Condé became the heroes of the war, and a series of decisive victories
rolled back the imperial armies, and by 1848 were converging upon Austria, when diplomacy brought
the war to an end by the Peace of Westphalia, the chief gains of which were the securing of
religious tolerance and the recognition of the independence of Switzerland and the United Provinces.

THISBE. See PYRAMUS.

THISTLE, ORDER OF THE, an order of Scottish knighthood, sometimes called the Order of St. Andrew,
instituted in 1687 by James VII. of Scotland (James II. of England); fell into abeyance during
the reign of William and Mary, but was revived by Queen Anne in 1703; includes the sovereign,
16 knights, and various officials. The principal article in the insignia is a gold collar composed
of thistles intertwined with sprigs of rue.

THOLUCK, FRIEDRICH AUGUST, theologian, born at Breslau; came under the influence of Neander
(q. v.) and became professor of Theology at Halle, where he exercised a considerable influence
over the many students who were attracted from far and near by his learning and fervour (1799-1877).

THOM, WILLIAM, a minor Scottish vernacular poet, author of "The Mitherless Bairn," &c.; was
a native of and hand-loom weaver at Aberdeen; endured much hardship and poverty (1799-1848).

THOMAS, AMBROISE, French composer, born at Metz; proved himself a brilliant student at the
Paris Conservatoire; became professor of Composition in 1852, and nine years later succeeded
Auber as director of the Conservatoire; a prolific writer in all forms of musical composition,
but has won celebrity mainly as a writer of, operas, the most popular of which are "La Double
Échelle," "Mignon," "Hamlet," &c.; was decorated with the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour
in 1880 (1811-1896).

THOMAS, ARTHUR GORING, composer, born near Eastbourne; studied at the Paris Conservatoire and
Royal Academy for Music, London; became popular through the merit of his operas "Esmeralda,"
"Nadeshda," the cantata "Sun-worshippers," and songs; committed suicide (1851-1892).

THOMAS, GEORGE HENRY, American general, born in Virginia; a man of fine character, lacking
none of the sterner stuff of the soldier, but blended with modesty and gentleness; universally
popular in the army, which he joined in 1840 and continued in till his death, rising to be
general of a division through gallantry in the Indian frontier wars and in the Civil War, in
which, at the battle of Nashville (1864), he completely routed the Confederate forces; had
command of the military division of the Pacific at the time of his death (1816-1870).

THOMAS, ST., the Apostle, is represented in art as bearing a spear in his hand, and sometimes
an arrow, a book, and a carpenter's square.

THOMAS THE RHYMER. See RHYMER, THOMAS THE.

THOMASIUS, CHRISTIAN, a German jurist, born at Leipzig; was the first to prelect on jurisprudence
in the German tongue, on which account, as on account of his advanced theological views, he
encountered no small persecution; became at length professor of Jurisprudence at Halle, his
influence on the study of which was considerable (1655-1728).

THOMISM, the doctrine of THOMAS AQUINAS (q. v.), particularly in reference to predestination
and grace.

THOMS, WILLIAM JOHN, a noted antiquary and bibliographer, born in Westminster; a clerk for
20 years in the Chelsea Hospital and subsequently in the House of Lords, where during 1863-1882
he was deputy-librarian; his leisure was given to his favourite pursuits, and bore fruit in
many volumes dealing with "folk-lore" (a word of his own invention) and the like; was secretary
of the Camden Society, and in 1849 founded, and continued to edit till 1872, Notes and Queries
(1803-1885).

THOMSON, SIR CHARLES WYVILLE, zoologist, born at Bonsyde, Linlithgow; educated at Merchiston
Castle, Edinburgh, and at the university there; a lecturer on botany at Aberdeen (1850), professor
of Natural History in Queen's College, Cork (1853), of Geology at Belfast (1854), and of Natural
History in the University of Edinburgh (1870); accompanied the Challenger expedition (1872-1876)
as head of the scientific department; knighted 1876; wrote "The Depths of the Sea" and "The
Voyage of the Challenger" (1830-1882).

THOMSON, GEORGE, a noted collector of songs, who set himself to gather in one work every existing
Scotch melody; his untiring zeal resulted in the publication of 6 vols. of Scotch songs, the
words of which had been adapted and supplied by a host of writers, including Scott, Campbell,
Joanna Baillie, and above all, Robert Burns, who contributed upwards of 120; Haydn, Beethoven,
Mozart, Weber, and others were engaged to supply instrumental preludes and codas; also published
collections of Irish songs and Welsh melodies; was a native of Limekilns, Fife, and for 60
years principal clerk to the Board of Trustees, Edinburgh (1759-1851).

THOMSON, JAMES, the poet of the "Seasons," born, the son of the parish minister, at Ednam,
Roxburghshire; was educated and trained for the ministry at Edinburgh University, but already
wooing the muse, he, shortly after his father's death in 1725, went to London to push his fortune;
his poem "Winter," published in the following year, had immediate success, and raised up a
host of friends and patrons, and what with tutoring and the proceeds of "Summer," "Spring,"
"Autumn," various worthless tragedies, and other products of his pen, secured a fair living,
till a pension of £100 from the Prince of Wales, to whom he had dedicated the poem of "Liberty,"
and a subsequent £300 a year as non-resident Governor of the Leeward Islands, placed him in
comparative affluence; the "Masque of Alfred," with its popular song "Rule Britannia," and
his greatest work "The Castle of Indolence" (1748), were the outcome of his later years of
leisure; often tediously verbose, not infrequently stiff and conventional in diction and trite
in its moralisings, the poetry of Thomson was yet the first of the 18th century to shake itself
free of the town, and to lead, as Stopford Brooke says, "the English people into that new world
of nature which has enchanted us in the work of modern poetry" (1700-1748).

THOMSON, JAMES, the poet of pessimism, born, a sailor's son, at Port-Glasgow, and brought up
in an orphanage; was introduced to literature by MR. BRADLAUGH (q. v.), to whose National Reformer
he contributed much of his best poetry, including his gloomy yet sonorous and impressive "The
City of Dreadful Night," besides essays (1834-1882).

THOMSON, JOHN, the artist minister of Duddingston, born at Dailly, in Ayrshire; succeeded his
father in the parish of Dailly (1800), and five years later was transferred to Duddingston
parish, near Edinburgh; faithful in the discharge of his parochial duties, he yet found time
to cultivate his favourite art of painting, and in the course of his 35 years' pastorate produced
a series of landscapes which won him wide celebrity in his own day, and have set him in the
front rank of Scottish artists (1778-1840).

THOMSON, JOSEPH, African explorer, born at Thornhill, studied at Edinburgh University, and
in 1878 was appointed zoologist to the Royal Geographical Society's expedition to Lake Tanganyika,
which, after the death of the leader, Keith Johnston, at the start, he, at the age of 20, carried
through with notable success; in 1882 explored with important geographical results Massai-land,
and subsequently headed expeditious up the Niger and to Sokoto, and explored the Atlas Mountains;
published interesting accounts of his various travels (1858-1895).

THOMSON, SIR WILLIAM, LORD KELVIN, great physicist, born at Belfast; studied at St. Peter's
College, Cambridge; was senior wrangler in 1845, and elected professor of Natural Philosophy
in Glasgow in 1846; it is in the departments of heat and electricity he has accomplished his
greatest achievements, and his best-known work is the invention of the siphon-recorder for
the Atlantic cable, on the completion of which, in 1866, he was knighted, to be afterwards
raised to the peerage in 1892; he has invented a number of ingenious and delicate scientific
instruments, as well as written extensively on mathematical and physical subjects; b. 1824.

THORN (27), a town and fortress of the first rank in West Prussia, on the Vistula, 115 m. NW.
of Warsaw; formerly a member of the HANSEATIC LEAGUE (q. v.); was annexed by Prussia in 1815;
the birthplace of Copernicus; carries on a brisk trade in corn and timber.

THORNBURY, GEORGE WALTER, a miscellaneous writer, author of numerous novels, "Songs of the
Cavaliers and Roundheads," "Life of Turner," "Old and New London," etc.; born in London, where
his life was spent in literary work (1828-1876).

THORNHILL, SIR JAMES, an English artist of the school of Le Brun, born at Woodland, Dorsetshire;
treated historical subjects in allegorical fashion, and was much in request for decorative
work, his most notable achievements being the decoration of the dome of St. Paul's, of rooms
in Hampton Court, Blenheim House, and Greenwich Hospital; was sergeant-painter to Queen Anne,
and was knighted by George I.; member of Parliament from 1719 till his death (1676-1734).

THORNYCROFT, HAMO, sculptor, born in London; has done statues of General Gordon (1885), John
Bright (1892), and Oliver Cromwell (1899); b. 1850.

THOROUGH, name given by the EARL OF STRAFFORD (q. v.) to a scheme of his to establish absolute
monarchy in England.

THORWALDSEN, BERTEL, an eminent Danish sculptor, born near Copenhagen, the son of a poor Icelander;
won a Government scholarship at the Academy of Copenhagen in 1793, which enabled him to study
in Rome, where he was greatly inspired by the ancient Greek sculptures, and fired with the
ambition of emulating the classical masters; Canova encouraged him, and a fine statue of Jason
established his reputation; his life henceforth was one of ever-increasing fame and prosperity.
Denmark received him with highest honour in 1819, but the milder Italian climate better suited
his health, and he returned to Rome, where he executed all his great works; these deal chiefly
with subjects chosen from the Greek mythology, in which he reproduces with marvellous success
the classic spirit and conception; executed also a colossal group of "Christ and the Twelve
Apostles," "St. John Preaching in the Wilderness," and other religious subjects, besides statues
of Copernicus and Galileo, and the celebrated reliefs "Night" and "Morning": bequeathed to
his country his large fortune and nearly 300 of his works, now in the Thorwaldsen Museum, one
of the great sights of Copenhagen (1770-1844).

THOTH, the Egyptian Mercury, inventor of arts and sciences; represented as having the body
of a man and the head of a lamb or ibis.

THOU, JACQUES-AUGUSTE DE, a celebrated historian, born at Paris; enjoyed the favour of Henry
III., and by Henry IV. was appointed keeper of the royal library; his history of his own times
is a work of great value as a clear and remarkably impartial survey of an interesting period
of European history (1553-1617).

THOUSAND ISLANDS, 2000 islands which stud the river St. Lawrence below Kingston, at the outlet
of the river from Lake Ontario.

THRACE, in ancient Greece, was a region, ill defined, stretching N. of Macedonia to the Danube,
and W. of the Euxine (Black Sea); appears never to have been consolidated into one kingdom,
but was inhabited by various Thracian tribes akin to the Greeks, but regarded by them as barbarians;
since the capture of Constantinople by the Turks the northern portion of Thrace has been annexed
to Eastern Roumelia, while the remainder has continued a portion of the Turkish empire.

THRASYBULUS, famous Athenian general and democratic statesman; came to the front during the
later part of the Peloponnesian War; took an active share in overturning the oligarchy of the
Four Hundred, and in recalling Alcibiades (411 B.C.); was exiled by the Thirty Tyrants, and
withdrew to Thebes, but subsequently was permitted to return, and later was engaged in commanding
Athenian armies against Lesbos and in support of Rhodes; was murdered (389 B.C.) by natives
of Pamphylia.

THREE HOURS' AGONY, a service held on Good Friday from 12 noon till 3 o'clock to commemorate
the Passion of Christ.

THREE RIVERS (9), capital of St. Maurice Co., Quebec, 95 m. NE. of Montreal; does a considerable
trade in lumber, iron-ware, &c.; is the seat of a Roman Catholic bishop.

THRING, EDWARD, a celebrated educationist, born at Alford Rectory, Somersetshire; educated
at Eton and Cambridge, where he obtained a Fellowship; entered the Church, and served in various
curacies till in 1853 he began his true lifework by an appointment to the head-mastership of
Uppingham School, which he raised to a high state of efficiency, and stamped with the qualities
of his own strong personality, as did Arnold at Rugby; published various educational works,
"The Theory and Practice of Teaching," "Addresses," "Poems and Translations," &c. (1821-1887).

THROGMORTON, SIR NICHOLAS, English diplomatist; was ambassador in Paris under Elizabeth, and
afterwards to Scotland; fell into disgrace as involved in an intrigue for the marriage of Mary,
Queen of Scots, with the Duke of Norfolk (1513-1571).

THUCYDIDES, historian of the Peloponnesian War, born in Athens nine years after the battle
of Salamis, of a wealthy family; was in Athens during the plague of 430 B.C.; was seized, but
recovered; served as naval commander in 424 in the Peloponnesian War, but from neglect of duty
was banished; returned from exile 20 years after; his great achievement is his history, all
derived from personal observation and oral communication, the materials of which were collected
during the war, and the whole executed in a style to entitle it to rank among the noblest literary
monuments of antiquity; it is not known how or when he died, but he died before his history
was finished.

THUGS, a fraternity of professed worshippers of the goddess Kali, the wife of Siva, who, professedly
to propitiate her, practised murder, and lived on the spoils of the victims. THUGGEE, a name
for the practice, originally by strangling and at times by poisoning.

THULE, ULTIMA, name given by the ancients to the farthest N. part of Europe, which they conceived
as an island.

THUN (6), a quaint old town of Switzerland, on the Aar, 17 m. SE. of Bern, and barely 1 m.
distant from Lake of Thun (12 m. by 2 m.); has a 12th-century castle, &c.

THUNDERER, name given to the Times, from certain powerful articles in it ascribed to the editor,
Captain Edward Stirling.

THURGAU (105), a canton of Switzerland, on the NE. frontier, where Lake Constance for a considerable
distance forms its boundary; inhabitants are mainly Protestant; country is hilly but not mountainous,
fertile, and traversed by the river Thur, a tributary of the Rhine; capital Frauenfeld.

THURIBLE, a censer suspended by chains and held in the hand by a priest during mass and other
offices of the Romish Church.

THÜRINGIA, originally the territory of the Thuringians (an ancient German tribe), now an integral
portion of the German empire, occupies a central position, with Saxony on its N. and E., and
Bavaria on the S.; a considerable portion of it is covered by the Thuringian Forest.

THURLES (5), a town of Tipperary, on the Suir, 87 m. SW. of Dublin; is the seat of a Catholic
archbishop, college, and cathedral; in the vicinity are the fine ruins of Holy Cross Abbey.

THURLOW, EDWARD, BARON, a noted lawyer and politician of George III.'s reign, born, a clergyman's
son, at Bracon-Ash, Norfolk; quitted Cambridge without a degree, and with a reputation for
insubordination and braggadocio rather than for scholarship; called to the bar in 1754, he
soon made his way, aided by an imposing presence, which led Fox to remark, "No man ever was
so wise as Thurlow looked"; raised his reputation by his speeches in the great Douglas case,
and through influence of the Douglas family was made a King's counsel; entered Parliament in
1768; became a favourite of the king, and rose through the offices of Solicitor-General and
Attorney-General to the Lord Chancellorship in 1778, being raised to the peerage as Baron;
lost his position during the Coalition Ministry of Fox and North, but was restored by Pitt,
who, however, got rid of him in 1792, after which his appearances in public life were few;
not a man of fine character, but possessed a certain rough vigour of intellect which appears
to have made considerable impression on his contemporaries (1732-1806).

THURSDAY, fifth day of the week, dedicated to THOR (q. v.).

THURSDAY ISLAND, a small island in Normanby Sound, Torres Strait, belonging to Queensland,
and used as a Government station; has a fine harbour, Port Kennedy, largely used for the Australian
transit trade; also the centre of valuable pearl fisheries.

THURSO (4), a seaport in Caithness, at the mouth of the Thurso River, 21 m. NW. of Wick; does
a brisk trade in agricultural produce, cattle, and paving stones.

THYRSUS, an attribute of Dionysus, being a staff or spear entwined with ivy leaves and a cone
at the top; carried by the devotees of the god on festive occasions; the cone was presumed
to cover the spear point, a wound from which was said to cause madness.

TIAN-SHAN ("Celestial Mountains"), a great mountain range of Central Asia, separating Turkestan
from Eastern and Chinese Turkestan; highest summit Kaufmann Peak, 22,500 ft.

TIBER, a river of Italy celebrated in ancient Roman history, rises in the Apennines, in the
province of Arezzo, Tuscany; rapid and turbid in its upper course, but navigable 100 m. upwards
from its mouth; flows generally in a S. direction, and after a course of about 260 m. enters
the Mediterranean about 15 m. below Rome.

TIBERIUS, second Roman emperor, born at Rome; was of the Claudian family; became the step-son
of Augustus, who, when he was five years old, had married his mother; was himself married to
Agrippina, daughter of Agrippa, but was compelled to divorce her and marry Augustus's daughter
Julia, by whom he had two sons, on the death of whom he was adopted as the emperor's successor,
whom, after various military services in various parts of the empire, he succeeded A.D. 14;
his reign was distinguished by acts of cruelty, specially at the instance of the minister Sejanus,
whom out of jealousy he put to death; given up to debauchery, he was suffocated in a fainting
fit by the captain of the Prætorian Guards in A.D. 37, and succeeded by Caligula; it was during
his reign Christ was crucified.

TIBERT, SIR, the cat in "Reynard the Fox."

TIBET (6,000), a country of Central Asia, and dependency of China since 1720, called by the
natives themselves Bod or Bodyul, comprises a wide expanse of tableland, "three times the size
of France, almost as cold as Siberia, most of it higher than Mount Blanc, and all of it, except
a few valleys, destitute of population"; enclosed by the lofty ranges of the Himalaya and Kuen-lun
Mountains, it has been left practically unexplored; possesses great mineral wealth, and a large
foreign trade is carried on in woollen cloth (chief article of manufacture); polyandry and
polygamy are prevailing customs among the people, who are a Mongolic race of fine physique,
fond of music and dancing, jealous of intrusion and wrapt up in their own ways and customs;
the government, civil and religious, is in the hands of the clergy, the lower orders of which
are numerous throughout the country; a variation of Mongol Shamanism is the native religion,
but Lamaism is the official religion of the country, and the supreme authority is vested in
the Dalai Lama, the sovereign pontiff, who resides at Lhassa, the capital.

TIBULLUS, ALBIUS, Roman elegiac poet, a contemporary of Virgil and Horace, the latter of whom
was warmly attached to him; he accompanied Messala his patron in his campaigns to Gaul and
the East, but had no liking for war, and preferred in peace to cultivate the tender sentiments,
and to attune his harp to his emotions.

TICHBORNE, a village and property of Hampshire, which became notorious in the "seventies" through
a butcher, from Wagga Wagga, in Australia, named Thomas Castro, otherwise Thomas Orton, laying
claim to it in 1866 on the death of Sir Alfred Joseph Tichborne; the "Claimant" represented
himself as an elder brother of the deceased baronet, supposed (and rightly) to have perished
at sea; the imposture was exposed after a lengthy trial, and a subsequent trial for perjury
resulted in a sentence of 14 years' penal servitude. Orton, after his release, confessed his
imposture in 1895.

TICINO (127), the most southerly canton of Switzerland, lies on the Italian frontier; slopes
down from the Lepontine Alps in the N. to fertile cultivated plains in the S., which grow olives,
vines, figs, &c.; the inhabitants speak Italian, and the canton, from the mildness of its climate
and richness of its soil, has been called the "Italian Switzerland," embraces most of Lakes
Lugano and Maggiore, and is traversed by the St. Gothard Railway.

TICINO, a river of Switzerland and North Italy; springs from the S. side of Mount St. Gothard,
flows southwards through Lake Maggiore and SE. through North Italy, joining the Po 4 m. below
Pavia, after a course of 120 m.

TICKELL, THOMAS, a minor English poet, born at Bridekirk, Cumberland; enjoyed the friendship
and favour of Addison, who praised him in the Spectator, and held till his death the appointment
of secretary to the Lords Justices of Ireland; his poetry does not count for much in the history
of English literature, but he was happy in the composition of occasional poems, e. g. "The
Prospect of Peace," "The Royal Progress," and in ballads, such as "Colin and Lucy," &c., and
his translation of the first book of the "Iliad" was so good as to rouse the jealousy of Pope
(1686-1740).

TICKNOR, GEORGE, American man of letters, born in Boston; studied in various European cities,
where he was received in the best literary circles, and of which he has left in his journal
interesting impressions; held the professorship of French and Spanish in Harvard University
for a number of years; published in 1849 his "History of Spanish Literature," the standard
work on the subject; also wrote lives of Lafayette and Prescott, &c. (1791-1871).

TICONDEROGA (3), a township of New York, on Lake Champlain, 100 m. N. of Albany; has various
factories, mines in the vicinity, &c.; a place of much prominence during the struggles with
the French and later during the revolutionary war.

TIECK, LUDWIG, German poet, born in Berlin; was one of the founders of the Romantic school
in Germany, was a friend of the Schlegels and Novalis; wrote novels and popular tales and dramas;
his tales, in particular, are described by Carlyle as "teeming with wondrous shapes full of
meaning; true modern denizens of old fairyland ... shows a gay southern fancy living in union
with a northern heart;... in the province of popular traditions reigns without a rival" (1773-1853).

TIENTSIN (950), an important city and river-port of China, on the Pei-ho, 34 m. from its mouth
and 80 m. SE. of Peking, of which it is the port; since 1858 has been one of the open treaty
ports, and in 1861 a British consulate was established; three months of the year the Pei-ho
is frozen over; there is an increasing transit trade with Russia.

TIERRA DEL FUEGO, a compact island-group at the southern extremity of the South American continent,
from which it is separated by the Strait of Magellan; the most southerly point is CAPE HORN
(q. v.); of the group Tierra del Fuego, sometimes called King Charles South Land, belongs partly
to the Argentine and partly to Chile, to which also belong the other islands, except Staten
Island, an Argentine possession; save for a few fertile plains in the N., where some sheep-farming
goes on, the region is bleak, barren, and mountainous, with rocky, fiord-cut coasts swept by
violent and prolonged gales; scantily peopled by now harmless Indians of a low type.

TIERS ÉTAT (third estate), name given to the Commons section in the States-General of France.

TIFLIS (105), capital of a mountainous, forest-clad government (875) of the same name and of
Russian Caucasia, on the Kar, 165 m. SE. of the Black Sea; is a city of considerable antiquity
and note, and owes much to-day to the energy of the Russians, who annexed it in 1802; noted
for its silver and other metal work.

TIGRIS, an important river of Turkey in Asia; rises in the mountains of Kurdistan, flows SE.
to Diarbekir, E. to Til (where it receives the Bitlis), and hence SE. through a flat and arid
country, till, after a course of 1100 m., it unites with the Euphrates to form the Shat-el-Arab,
which debouches into the Persian Gulf 90 m. lower; is navigable for 500 m. to Bagdad; on its
banks are the ruins of Nineveh, Seleucia, and Ctesiphon.

TILBURY FORT, on the Essex bank of the Thames, opposite Gravesend; the main defence of the
river above Sheerness; in 1886 extensive docks, quays, a tidal basin, &c., were opened.

TILLOTSON, JOHN ROBERT, archbishop of Canterbury, born in Sowerby, Yorkshire, of a Puritan
family, and trained on Puritan lines; studied at Clare Hall, Cambridge, came under the influence
of CUDWORTH (q. v.), conformed to the Established Church at the Restoration and became king's
chaplain and a prebend of Canterbury, till at length he rose to be dean and primate; was an
eloquent preacher, a man of moderate views, and respected by all parties; his "Sermons" were
models for a time, but are so no longer (1630-1694).

TILLY, JOHANN TSERKLAES, COUNT OF, one of the great generals of the THIRTY YEARS' WAR (q. v.),
born in Brabant; was designed for the priesthood and educated by Jesuits, but abandoned the
Church for the army; was trained in the art of war by Parma and Alva, and proved himself a
born soldier; reorganised the Bavarian army, and, devoted to the Catholic cause, was given
command of the Catholic army at the outbreak of the Thirty Years' War, during the course of
which he won many notable battles, acting later on in conjunction with Wallenstein, whom in
1630 he succeeded as commander-in-chief of the imperial forces, and in the following year sacked
with merciless cruelty the town of Magdeburg, a deed which Gustavus Adolphus was swift to avenge
by crushing the Catholic forces in two successive battles--at Breitenfeld and at Rain--in the
latter of which Tilly was mortally wounded (1559-1632).

TILSIT (25), a manufacturing town of East Prussia, on the Memel or Niemen, 65 m. NE. of Königsberg;
here was signed in 1807 a memorable treaty between Alexander I. of Russia and Napoleon, as
the result of which Friedrich Wilhelm III. of Prussia was deprived of the greater part of his
dominions.

TIMBUCTOO (20), an important city of the Western Soudan, situated at the edge of the Sahara,
8 m. N. of the Upper Niger, at the centre of five caravan routes which lead to all parts of
North Africa; carries on a large transit trade, exchanging European goods for native produce;
was occupied by the French in 1894.

TIMOLEON, a celebrated general of ancient Greece, born, of a noble family, in Corinth, about
395 B.C.; ardently espoused the cause of the Greeks in Sicily, who were in danger of forfeiting
their liberties to the Carthaginians, and headed an army to Syracuse, where he defeated and
drove out Dionysius the Younger (344), subsequently cleared the island of the oppressors, and
brought back order and good government, after which he quietly returned to private life, and
spent his later years at Syracuse, beloved by the Sicilians as their liberator and benefactor;
d. 337 B.C.

TIMON OF PHLIUS, a Greek philosopher, a disciple of PYRRHO (q. v.), flourished 280 B.C.; wrote
a satirical poem on the whole Greek philosophy up to date, which is the source of our knowledge
of his master's opinions. Also the name of a misanthrope of Athens, a contemporary of Socrates.

TIMOR (500), the largest of the long chain of islands which stretches eastward from Java, of
volcanic formation, mountainous, wooded, and possessing deposits of various metals, but mainly
exports maize, sandal-wood, wax, tortoise-shell, &c.; population consists chiefly of Papuans,
whose native chiefs are the real rulers of the island, which belongs, the W. portion of it
to Holland and the E. to Portugal; E. of Timor lies a group of three low-lying islands of coral
formation, known as Timor-Laut or Tenimber Islands (25); Dutch possession.

TIMOTHY, a convert of St. Paul's, associate and deputy, to whom, as in charge of the Church
at Ephesus, he wrote two epistles in the interval between his imprisonment and death at Rome,
the First Epistle to direct him in the discharge of his pastoral duties, and the Second to
invite him to Rome, and counsel him, should he not be dead before he arrived.

TIMUR THE TARTAR. See TAMERLANE.

TINDAL, MATTHEW, English deistical writer, born in Devonshire; studied at Oxford, became Fellow
of All Souls', was first a Protestant, then a Catholic, and then a free-thinker of a very outspoken
type, exhibited in a polemic which provoked hostility on all sides; his most famous work was
"Christianity as old as Creation; or, the Gospel a Republication of the Religion of Nature,"
a work which did not attack Christianity, but rationalised it (1656-1733).

TINEWALD, THE, name of the Manx Parliament.

TINNEVELLI (23), a town of Madras Presidency, SE. India, capital of a district (1,916) of the
same name; lies 50 m. N. of Cape Comorin, and adjoins Pallamcotta, head-quarters of the British
military and government; is a centre of Protestant mission work, and possesses a Sind temple
and a Hindu college.

TINTAGEL HEAD, a rocky headland, 300 ft high, on the W. Cornish coast, 22 m. W. of Launceston;
associated with the Arthurian legend as the site of King Arthur's castle and court; 6 m. distant
lies Camelford, the famous Camelot.

TINTERN ABBEY, one of the most beautiful ruined abbeys of England, founded by the Cistercian
monks in 1131 on the Wye, in Monmouthshire, 5 m. above Chepstow; associated with Wordsworth's
great poem, "Lines composed a few miles above Tintern Abbey."

TINTORETTO, baptized JACOPO ROBUSTI, a famous Italian artist, one of Ruskin's "five supreme
painters," born at Venice; save for a few lessons under Titian he seems to have been self-taught;
took for his models Titian and Michael Angelo, and came specially to excel in grandeur of conception
and in strong chiaroscuro effects; amongst his most notable pictures are "Belshazzar's Feast,"
"The Last Supper," "The Crucifixion," "The Last Judgment," "The Resurrection," &c.; some of
these are of enormous size (1518-1594).

TIPPERARY (173), a south-midland county of Ireland, in the province of Munster, stretching
N. of Waterford, between Limerick (W.) and Kilkenny (E.); possesses a productive soil, which
favours a considerable agricultural and dairy-farming industry; coal is also worked; the Suir
is the principal stream; the generally flat surface is diversified in the S. by the Galtees
(3008 ft.) and Knockmeledown (2609 ft.), besides smaller ranges elsewhere; county town Tipperary
(7), 110 m. SW. of Dublin; noted for its butter market.

TIPPOO SAIB, son of HYDER ALI (q. v.), whom he succeeded in the Sultanate of Mysore in 1782;
already a trained and successful warrior in his father's struggles with the English, he set
himself with implacable enmity to check the advance of British arms; in 1789 invaded Travancore,
and in the subsequent war (1790-1792), after a desperate resistance, was overcome and deprived
of half of his territories, and compelled to give in hostage his two sons; intrigued later
with the French, and again engaged the English, but was defeated, and his capital, Seringapatam,
captured after a month's siege, himself perishing in the final attack (1749-1799).

TIPTON (29), an iron-manufacturing town of Staffordshire, 8½ m. NW. of Birmingham.

TIRABOSCHI, GIROLAMO, an Italian writer, who for some time filled the chair of Rhetoric at
Milan University, and subsequently became librarian to the Duke of Modena; is celebrated for
his exhaustive survey of Italian literature in 13 vols., a work of the utmost value (1731-1794).

TIRESIAS, in the Greek mythology a soothsayer, who had been struck blind either by Athena or
Hera, but on whom in compensation Zeus had conferred the gift of prophecy, and length of days
beyond the ordinary term of existence.

TIRNOVA (11), a fortified town of Bulgaria, 35 m. SSE. of Sistova; is the seat of the Bulgarian
patriarch; formerly the State capital.

TIRYNS, an ancient city of Greece, excavated by Schliemann in 1884-1885; situated in the Peloponnesus,
in the plain of Argolis, 3 m. from the head of the Argolic Gulf; legend associates it with
the early life of Hercules; has ruins of a citadel, and of Cyclopean walls unsurpassed in Greece.

TISCHENDORF, CONSTANTIN VON, biblical scholar, born in Saxony; spent his life in textual criticism;
his great work "Critical Edition of the New Testament" (1815-1874).

TISIPHONE, one of the three FURIES (q. v.).

TITANIA, the wife of Oberon and the queen of the fairies.

TITANIUM, a rare, very hard metal, always found in combination.

TITANS, in the Greek mythology sons of Uranos and Gaia, beings of gigantic strength, and of
the dynasty prior to that of Zeus, who made war on Zeus, and hoped to scale heaven by piling
mountain on mountain, but were overpowered by the thunderbolts of Zeus, and consigned to a
limbo below the lowest depths of Tartarus; they represent the primitive powers of nature, as
with seeming reluctance submissive to the world-order established by Zeus, and symbolise the
vain efforts of mere strength to subvert the ordinance of heaven; they are not to be confounded
with the Giants, nor with their offspring, who had learned wisdom from the failure of their
fathers, and who, Prometheus one of them, represented the idea that the world was made for
man and not man for the world, and that all the powers of it, from highest to lowest, were
there for his behoof.

TITHONUS, in the Greek mythology son of Laomedon, who was wedded to Eos, who begged Zeus to
confer on him immortality but forgot to beg for youth, so that his decrepitude in old age became
a burden to him; he was changed into a cicada.

TITIAN, VECELLIO, great Italian painter, born at Capo del Cadore, the prince of colourists
and head of the Venetian school; studied at Venice, and came under the influence of Giorgione;
he was a master of his art from the very first, and his fame led to employment in all directions
over Italy, Germany, and Spain; his works were numerous, and rich in variety; he was much in
request as a portrait-painter, and he painted most of the great people he knew; he ranks with
Michael Angelo and Raphael as the head of the Italian renaissance; lived to a great age (1477-1576).

TITIENS, TERESA, a famous operatic singer, born of Hungarian parents in Hamburg; made her début
in 1849 at Altona, in the character of Lucrezia Borgia (1849), and soon took rank as the foremost
singer on the German lyric stage; appeared with triumphant success in London (1858), and henceforth
made her home in England, associated herself with the management of Mapleson; visited America
in 1875; her commanding physique and powerful acting, together with her splendid voice, made
her an ideal interpreter of such tragic characters as Norma, Fidelio, Margarita, Ortrud, &c.
(1834-1877).

TITMARSH, MICHAEL ANGELO, pseudonym assumed for a series of years by Thackeray.

TITUS, a convert of St. Paul, a Greek by birth, appears to have accompanied St Paul on his
last journey, and to have been with him at his death; Paul's Epistle to him was to instruct
and encourage him during his ministry in Crete.

TITUS, FLAVIUS VESPASIANUS, Roman emperor, born at Rome, the son of Vespasian, served in Germany
and Britain, and under his father in Judæa; on his father's elevation to the throne persecuted
the Jews, laid siege to Jerusalem, and took the city in A.D. 70; on his accession to the throne
he addressed himself to works of public beneficence, and became the idol of the citizens; his
death was sudden, and his reign lasted only three years; during that short period he won for
himself the title of the "Delight of Mankind" (40-81).

TITYUS, a giant whose body covered nine acres of land, son of Zeus and Gaia, who for attempting
to force Latona was punished in the nether world by two vultures continually gnawing at his liver.

TIVERTON (11), an interesting old town of Devonshire, pleasantly situated between the Exe and
Loman, 12 m. N. by E. of Exeter; possesses public baths, assembly rooms, almshouses, and a
17th-century grammar-school; noted for its lace manufactures.

TIVOLI (9), a town of Italy, known to the ancients as Tibur, beautifully situated on the Teverone,
18 m. E. of Rome; was much resorted to by the wealthy Roman citizens, and is celebrated by
Horace; is full of interesting remains.

TLAXCALA (138), a State of North Mexico, and formerly an Aztec republic; capital, Tlaxcala
(4); has woollen manufactures.

TOBAGO (21), one of the WINDWARD ISLANDS (q. v.), the most southerly of the group; a British
possession since 1763, politically attached to Trinidad; is hilly, picturesque, and volcanic;
exports rum, molasses, and live-stock.

TOBIT, THE BOOK OF, a book of the Apocrypha giving account of the life and vicissitudes of
a pious Israelitish family in the Assyrian captivity, that consisted of Tobit, Anna his wife,
and Tobias his son; all three are held up to honour for their strict observance of the Law
of the Lord and their deeds of charity to such as loved it, and notable for the prominence
given in it to the ministry of angels, both good and bad, among the former Raphael and among
the latter Asmodeus, and is the work of a Jew whose mind was imbued with Oriental imagery.

TOBOLSK (20), a town and government (1,313), of W. Siberia, picturesquely planted at the confluence
of the Irtish and Tobol, 2000 m. E. of St. Petersburg; has a cathedral, barracks, theatre,
prison for Siberian slaves, &c.

TOBY, UNCLE, the hero of Sterne's "Tristram Shandy," a retired captain, distinguished for his
kindness, gallantry, and simplicity.

TOCANTINS, one of the great rivers of Brazil, rises in the State of Goyaz; flows northwards,
and after a course of 1500 m. enters the estuary of the Pará, one of the mouths of the Amazon,
138 m. from the Atlantic; receives the Araguay from the S., an affluent 1600 m. long.

TOCQUEVILLE, ALEXIS CLÉREL DE, French economist, born at Verneuil, of an old Norman family,
bred to the bar, and specially distinguished as the author of two works in high repute, "La
Democratie en Amérique" and "L'Ancien Régime et la Révolution"; died at Cannes, leaving much
of his work unfinished (1805-1861).

TODHUNTER, ISAAC, mathematician, born at Rye; educated at University College, London, and at
Cambridge, where he graduated senior wrangler and Smith's prizeman in 1848; elected Fellow
and principal mathematical lecturer of his college (St. John's), and soon became widely known
in educational circles by his various and excellent handbooks and treatises on mathematical
subjects (1820-1884).

TODLEBEN, EDUARD IVANOVITCH, a noted Russian general of German descent, who, trained in the
engineer corps, greatly distinguished himself by his defensive operations at Sebastopol during
its siege by the French and English in the Crimean War, and subsequently by the reduction of
Plevna, his greatest achievement, which brought to a close the war with Turkey in 1877; subsequently
became commander-in-chief in Bulgaria (1818-1884).

TODMORDEN (25), a cotton town prettily situated amid hills on the border of Lancashire and
Yorkshire, on the Calder, 21 m. NE. of Manchester; coal abounds in the vicinity.

TOGA, an outer garment, usually of white wool like a large blanket, folded about the person
in a variety of ways, but generally with the right arm free, thrown over the left shoulder,
and hanging down the back; it was at once the badge of manhood and Roman citizenship.

TOGOLAND, a German protectorate on the Slave Coast, in Upper Guinea, Gold Coast Colony on the
W., and Dahomey on the E.; exports palm-oil and ivory.

TOKAY (5), a Hungarian town on the Theiss, 130 m. NE. of Pesth; greatly celebrated for its
wines, of which it manufactures 34 different sorts.

TOKYO or TOKEI (1,376), formerly called Yeddo, capital of the Japanese Empire, situated on
a bay of the same name on the SE. coast of Hondo, and partly built on the delta of the river
Sumida; is for the most part flat and intersected by canals and narrow irregular streets, and
has a finely-wooded river-side avenue 5 m. long; on account of frequent earthquakes most of
the houses are of light bamboo structure, which, however, renders them liable to destructive
fires; has a fine castle, government offices, university, and some 700 schools and colleges;
as the political, commercial, and literary metropolis it possesses an overshadowing influence
over the national life of the empire. Yokohama, 17 m. distant, is the port of entry.

TOLA, a weight in India for gold and silver, equal to 180 grains troy.

TOLAND, JOHN, political and deistical writer, born in Derry, of Catholic parents; abandoned
the Catholic faith; studied at Leyden and Oxford; his first work, "Christianity not Mysterious,"
which created a great stir, and was burned in Ireland by the common hangman; it was succeeded,
along with others, by "Nazarenus," which traced Christianity to conflicting elements in the
early Church; he was a disciple of Locke (1669-1722).

TOLEDO (20), a city of Spain, capital of a province (360), and former capital of the kingdom,
occupies a commanding site amid hills, on the Tagus, 40 m. SW. of Madrid; within and without
presents a sombre and imposing appearance; is the see of the primate of Spain, and possesses
a noble Gothic cathedral, ruins of the Cid's castle, and remains of the Moorish occupation
(712-1085); the manufacture of sword-blades, famous in Roman times, is still carried on in
a government establishment a mile out of the city.

TOLEDO (131), capital of Lucas County, Ohio, on the Maumee River, 80 m. W. of Lake Erie; is
a busy centre of iron manufactures, and does a large trade in grain, flour, lumber, &c., facilitated
by a fine harbour, canal, and railway systems.

TOLERATION ACT, a statute passed in 1689 to relieve all Dissenters from certain penalties,
except Roman Catholics and Unitarians.

TOLSTOI, COUNT LEO, novelist, social reformer, and religious mystic, born in Tula, of a noble
family; served for a time in the army, soon retired from it, and travelled; married, and settled
on his estate near Moscow in 1862; his two great works are "War and Peace" (1865-68) and "Anna
Karenina" (1875-78); has written many works since, all more or less in a religious vein, and
in the keenest, deepest sympathy with the soul-oppression of the world, finding the secret
of Christianity to lie in the precept of Christ, "Resist not evil," and exemplifying that as
the principle of his own life; b. 1828.

TOMMY ATKINS, the British soldier, as Jack Tar is the British sailor, from a hypothetical name
inserted in a War Office schedule at one time issued to each soldier.

TOMSK (37), a town and government (1,300) of W. Siberia, on the Tom, 55 m. from its confluence
with the Obi; has a university, and is an important depôt on the trade-route to China.

TONE, THEOBALD WOLFE, Irish patriot, born in Dublin; called to the bar in 1789; found a congenial
sphere for his restless, reckless nature in the disturbed politics of his time, and was active
in founding the "United Irishmen," whose intrigues with France got him into trouble, and forced
him to seek refuge in America, and subsequently France, where he schemed for a French invasion
of Ireland; eventually was captured by the English while on his way with a small French squadron
against Ireland; was condemned at Dublin, but escaped a death on the gallows by committing
suicide in prison (1763-1798).

TONGA ISLANDS or FRIENDLY ISLANDS (19), an archipelago in the S. Pacific, 250 m. SE. of Fiji;
Tonga-tabu is the largest; volcanic and fruit-bearing; missionary enterprise (Wesleyan Methodist)
has done much to improve the mental, moral, and material condition of the natives, who belong
to the fair Polynesian stock, and are a superior race to the other natives of Polynesia, but
are diminishing in numbers. See FRIENDLY ISLANDS.

TONGALAND (100), a native State on the E. coast of South Africa, stretching N. of Zululand.

TONGKING, TONQUIN, or TONKIN (9,000), a fertile northern province of ANNAM (q. v.), ceded to
France in 1884; is richly productive of rice, cotton, sugar, spices, &c., but has an unhealthy
climate.

TONGRES (9), an episcopal city of Belgium, 12 m. NW. of Liège; its church of Notre Dame dates
from 1240.

TONNAGE AND POUNDAGE, the name given to certain duties first levied in Edward II.'s reign on
every tun of imported wine, and on every pound weight of merchandise exported or imported;
Charles I.'s attempt to levy these without parliamentary sanction was one of the complaints
of his Long Parliament; were swept away by the Customs Consolidation Act of 1787.

TOOKE, JOHN HORNE, baptismal name JOHN HORNE, born, the son of a well-to-do poulterer, in London;
graduated at Cambridge, and to please his father took holy orders in 1760, but after some years,
during which he had tutored abroad, zealously assisted Wilkes in his election to Parliament,
and successfully encountered "Junius"; he abandoned the Church and studied for the bar, to
which, on account of his holy orders, he was refused a call; became an active political free-lance,
and acquired great popularity as a strenuous advocate of parliamentary reform; entered Parliament
in 1801, but in the following year was excluded by an Act making it illegal for any one in
priest's orders to be returned; inherited the fortune and assumed the name of his friend William
Tooke of Purley; is best known as the author of the "Diversions of Purley," "a witty medley
of etymology, grammar, metaphysics, and politics" (1736-1812).

TOOLE, JOHN LAWRENCE, a celebrated comedian, born in London, where he was educated at the City
School, and afterwards put to business, but soon took to the stage, serving his apprenticeship
and gaining a considerable reputation in the provinces before making his appearance at St.
James's Theatre in London in 1854; became the leading low-comedian of his day, and in 1880
took over the management of the Folly Theatre, which he re-named Toole's Theatre; has unrivalled
powers of blending pathos with burlesque, and in such characters as Paul Pry, Caleb Plummer,
Chawles, &c., is a special favourite all over the English-speaking world; b. 1832.

TOOM TABARD. See TABARD.

TOPE, the popular name in Buddhist countries for a species of cupola-shaped tumulus surmounted
by a finial, in shape like an open parasol, the emblem of Hindu royalty; these parasol finials
were often placed one upon the top of the other until a great height was reached; one in Ceylon
attains a height of 249 ft., with a diameter of 360 ft.; were used to preserve relics or to
commemorate some event.

TOPEKA (34), capital of Kansas, on the Kansas River, 67 m. W. of Kansas City; is a spacious,
well laid out town, the seat of an Episcopal bishop, well supplied with schools and colleges,
and busy with the manufacture of flour, heavy iron goods, &c.

TÖPFFER, RUDOLF, caricaturist and novelist of Geneva, where he founded a boarding-school, and
became professor of Rhetoric in the Geneva Academy; author of some charming novels, "Nouvelles
Genévoises," "La Bibliothèque de mon Oncle," &c. (1799-1846).

TOPLADY, AUGUSTUS MONTAGUE, hymn-writer, born at Farnham, Surrey; became vicar of Broad Hembury,
Devonshire, in 1768; was an uncompromising Calvinist, and opponent of the Methodists; survives
as the author of "Rock of Ages," besides which he wrote "Poems on Sacred Subjects," and compiled
"Psalms and Hymns," of which a few are his own (1740-1778).

TORGAU (11), a fortified town of Prussia, on the Elbe, 70 m. SW. of Berlin; has a church consecrated
by Luther, and in the town-church the wife of the great reformer lies buried; scene of a victory
of Frederick the Great over the Austrians in November 1760.

TORONTO (181), the second city of Canada, and metropolis of the W. and NW. regions, capital
of Ontario; situated on a small bay on the NW. coast of Lake Ontario, 315 m. SW. of Montreal;
is a spacious and handsomely built city, with fine churches, a splendidly equipped university,
Parliament buildings, law courts, theological colleges, schools of medicine and music, libraries,
&c.; does a large shipping and railway trade in lumber, fruit, grain, coal, &c.

TORQUAY (26), a popular watering-place of South Devon, on Tor Bay, 23 m. S. of Exeter; with
a fine climate and beautiful surroundings, has since the beginning of the century grown from
a little fishing village to be "the Queen of English watering-places"; a great yachting centre, &c.

TORQUEMADA, THOMAS DE, a prior of a Dominican monastery who became in 1483, during the reign
of Ferdinand and Isabella, head of the Inquisition, a "holy office" he administered with merciless
cruelty (1420-1498).

TORRES STRAIT separates Australia from New Guinea, 80 m. broad, and from its numerous islands,
shoals, and reefs is exceedingly difficult to navigate.

TORRES-VEDRAS (5), a town of Portugal, 26 m. N. of Lisbon; celebrated for the great lines of
defence Wellington constructed in 1810, and behind which he successfully withstood the siege
of the French under Massena, thus saving Lisbon, and preparing the way for his subsequent expulsion
of the French from the Peninsula.

TORRICELLI, EVANGELISTA, a celebrated Italian physicist; devoted himself to science, and attracted
the attention of Galileo, whom he subsequently succeeded as professor at the Florentine Academy;
discovered the scientific principle of the barometer, which is sometimes called the Torricellian
tube, and made notable advances in mathematical and physical science (1608-1647).

TORRINGTON (3), a market-town of North Devon, built on an eminence overlooking the Torridge,
10 m. SW. of Barnstaple; manufactures gloves; was the scene of a Parliamentary victory in 1646,
during the great rebellion.

TORTURE, JUDICIAL, torture to extort a confession, practised in England till 1588, and in Scotland
by thumbscrews and the boot till 1690.

TORY, the old name for a Conservative in politics, generally of very decided type; originally
denoted an Irish robber of the English in Ireland.

TOTEMISM, division of a race into tribes, each of which has its own Totem, or animal, as the
symbol of it and the name, and as such treated with superstitious veneration, as involving
religious obligation.

TOTNES (4), a quaint old market-town of Devonshire, overlooking the Dart, 29 m. SW. of Plymouth;
has interesting Norman and other remains; a centre of agricultural industry.

TOUL (12), a strongly-fortified town of France, on the Moselle, 20 m. W. of Nancy; has a noble
Gothic cathedral and lace and hat manufactures; was captured by the Germans in 1870.

TOULON (74), chief naval station of France, on the Mediterranean, situated 42 m. SE. of Marseilles;
lies at the foot of the Pharon Hills, the heights of which are strongly fortified; has a splendid
11th-century cathedral, and theatre, forts, citadel, 240 acres of dockyard, arsenal, cannon
foundry, &c.; here in 1793 Napoleon Bonaparte, then an artillery officer, first distinguished
himself in a successful attack upon the English and Spaniards.

TOULOUSE (136), a historic and important city of South France, capital of Haute-Garonne, pleasantly
situated on a plain and touching on one side the Garonne (here spanned by a fine bridge) and
on the other the Canal du Midi, 160 m. SE. of Bordeaux; notable buildings are the cathedral
and Palais de Justice; is the seat of an archbishop, schools of medicine, law, and artillery,
various academies, and a Roman Catholic university; manufactures woollens, silks, &c.; in 1814
was the scene of a victory of Wellington over Soult and the French. Under the name of Tolosa
it figures in Roman and mediæval times as a centre of learning and literature, and was for
a time capital of the kingdom of the Visigoths.

TOURCOING (65), a thriving textile manufacturing town of France, 9 m. NE. of Lille.

TOURNAMENTS, real or mock fights by knights on horseback in proof of skill in the use of arms
and in contests of honour.

TOURNAY (35), a town of Hainault, Belgium, on the Scheldt, 35 m. SW. of Brussels; in the 5th
century was the seat of the Merovingian kings, but now presents a handsome modern appearance;
has a fine Romanesque cathedral and flourishing manufactures of hosiery, linen, carpets, and
porcelain.

TOURNEUR, CYRIL, a later Elizabethan dramatist, who seems to have led an adventurous life,
and whose "Atheist's Tragedy" and "Revenger's Tragedy" reach a high level of dramatic power,
and have been greatly praised by Swinburne; wrote also the "Transformed Metamorphosis" and
other poems; lived into James I.'s reign; almost nothing is known of his life.

TOURS (60), a historic old town of France, on the Loire, 145 m. SW. of Paris; presents a spacious
and handsome appearance, and contains a noble Gothic cathedral, archbishop's palace, Palais
de Justice, besides ancient châteaux and interesting ruins; is a centre of silk and woollen
manufactures, and does a large printing trade; suffered greatly by the Revocation of the Edict
of Nantes and during the Franco-German War; became the seat of government after the investment
of Paris and until its capitulation to the Germans.

TOURVILLE, ANNE HILARION DE COTENTIN, COUNT DE, a French naval hero, born at Tourville, La
Manche; entered the navy in 1660, established his reputation in the war with the Turks and
Algerines, and in 1677 won a victory over the Dutch and Spanish fleets; supported James II.
in 1690, and in the same year, as commander of the French Channel fleet, inflicted a crushing
defeat on the Dutch and English; but off Cape La Hogue in 1692, after a five days' engagement,
had his fleet all but annihilated, a memorable victory which freed England from the danger
of invasion by Louis XIV.; was created a marshal in 1693, and a year later closed his great
career of service by scattering an English mercantile fleet and putting to flight the convoy
squadron under Sir George Rooke (1642-1701).

TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE, a negro hero of Hayti, born, the son of an African slave at Breda; took
part in the native insurrection of 1791, and in 1797 became a general of brigade in the service
of the French, and by gallant soldiership cleared the English and Spanish out of Hayti; became
president for life of the republic of Hayti, and began to work for the complete independence
of the island; in 1801, when Napoleon endeavoured to re-introduce slavery, he revolted, but
was subdued by a strong French force and taken to France, where he died in prison; is the subject
of a well-known sonnet by Wordsworth (1743-1803).

TOWER HAMLETS, a parliamentary division of London E. of the city, originally a group of hamlets
at one time within the jurisdiction of the Lieutenant of the Tower.

TOWERS OF SILENCE, towers in Persia and India, some 60 ft. in height, on the top of which the
Parsees deposit their dead to be gnawed by vultures.

TOWNSHEND, CHARLES, VISCOUNT, statesman, born at Raynham, Norfolk; succeeded to the title on
his father's death, and after taking his seat in the Upper House turned Whig, and soon became
prominent in the party; was one of the commissioners who arranged the Scottish Union; accompanied
Marlborough as joint-plenipotentiary to the Gertruydenburg Conference (1709); got into political
trouble for signing the Barrier Treaty while acting as ambassador to the States-General; under
George I. rose to high favour, became acknowledged leader of the Whigs, passed the Septennial
Act, but after 1721 was eclipsed in the party by the greater abilities of Walpole, and after
unpleasant rivalries was forced to withdraw from the ministry (1730); gave himself then to
agricultural pursuits (1674-1738).

TOWNSHEND, CHARLES, statesman and orator, grandson of preceding; entered Parliament in 1747
as a Whig, and after his great speech against the Marriage Bill of 1753 ranked among the foremost
orators of his day; held important offices of State under various ministers, Bute, Chatham,
and Rockingham, and as Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1767 was responsible for the imposition
of the paper, tea, and other duties on the American colonies which provoked the War of Independence
and led to the loss of the colonies; a man of brilliant gifts and noted wit, but led by what
Burke termed "an immoderate love of fame" to play "the weathercock" in politics; died when
on the point of attaining the premiership (1725-1767).

TOWTON, a village of Yorkshire, 3 m. SE. of Tadcaster, where in 1461 Edward IV. at the head
of the Yorkists completely routed the Lancastrians under the Duke of Somerset.

TOYNBEE HALL, an institution in Whitechapel, London, founded in 1885 for the social welfare
of the poor in the district, established in memory of Arnold Toynbee (1852-1883), who had come
under Ruskin's influence and took a deep interest in the working-classes, his zeal for whose
benefit shortened his days.

TRACTARIANISM, the tenets of the High Church party in the English Church advocated in "Tracts
for the Times," published at Oxford between 1833 and 1841, the chief doctrine of which was
that the Church, through its sacraments in the hands of a regularly-ordained clergy, is the
only divinely-appointed channel of the grace of Christ.

TRADE, BOARD OF, a Government office which, as now constituted, dates from 1786, but whose
functions within recent times have been considerably widened; consists of a president (a Cabinet
minister), and ex officio the Lord Chancellor, Archbishop of Canterbury, First Lord of the
Treasury, the principal Secretaries of State, Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Speaker, and
others, but the actual work of the Board is left in the hands of the president and his secretarial
staff; comprises five departments: (1) statistical and commercial; (2) railway; (3) marine;
(4) harbour; (5) financial.

TRAFALGAR, CAPE, on the S. coast of Spain, at the NW. entrance of the Strait of Gibraltar;
scene of naval engagements in which Nelson lost his life after inflicting (October 21, 1805)
a crushing defeat on the combined fleets of France and Spain.

TRAJAN, MARCUS ULPIUS, Roman emperor, born in Spain; his great deeds in arms won him a consulship
in 91, and in 97 Nerva invited him to be his colleague and successor; a year later he became
sole emperor, ruled the empire with wisdom and vigour, set right the finances, upheld an impartial
justice, and set on foot various schemes of improvement; suppressed the Christians as politically
dangerous, but with no fanatic extravagance; remained above all a warrior and true leader of
the legions, and crowned his military fame by his successful conquest of Dacia, in commemoration
of which he is said to have erected the famous Trajan Column, which still stands in Rome (56-117).

TRAJAN'S COLUMN, a column erected by Trajan in the Forum at Rome in memory of his victory over
the Dacians, and sculptured with the story of his exploits, is 125 ft. in height, and ascended
by 185 steps; was surmounted by a statue of Trajan, for which Pope Sextus V. substituted one
of St. Peter.

TRANSCAUCASIA, an extensive tract of Russian territory stretching E. and W. between the Caucasus
(N.) and Turkey in Asia and Persia (S.). See CAUCASIA.

TRANSCENDENTALISM, name now principally employed to denote the great doctrine of Kant and his
school, that there are principles of a priori derivation, that is, antecedent to experience,
that are regulative and constitutive of not only our thoughts but our very perceptions, and
the operation of which is antecedent to and sovereign over all our mental processes; which
principles are denominated the categories of thought; the name is also employed to characterise
every system which grounds itself on a belief in a supernatural of which the natural is but
the embodiment and manifestation. See NATURAL SUPERNATURALISM.

TRANSMIGRATION, the doctrine prevalent in the East, that the soul is immortal, and that when
it leaves the body at death it passes into another, a transition which in certain systems goes
under the name of reincarnation.

TRANSUBSTANTIATION, the doctrine of Roman Catholics as defined by the Council of Trent, that
the bread and wine of the Eucharist is, after consecration by a priest, converted mystically
into the body and blood of Christ, and is known as the docrine of the Real Presence.

TRANSVAAL, formerly SOUTH AFRICAN REPUBLIC (1350), a country of SE. Africa, stretching northwards
from the Vaal River, and bounded N. by Matabeleland, E. by Portuguese E. Africa and Swaziland,
S. by Natal and the Orange River Colony, and W. by Bechuanaland and Bechuanaland Protectorate;
comprises elevated plateaux, but is mountainous in the E.; about the size of Italy; has a good
soil and climate favourable for agriculture and stock-raising, to which latter the inert Dutch
farmer chiefly devotes himself; its chief wealth, however, lies in its extremely rich deposits
of gold, especially those of the "Rand," of which it exports now more than any country in the
world; its advance since the gold discoveries has been great, but the trade is almost entirely
in the hands of the British immigrants; JOHANNESBURG (q. v.) is the largest town, and Pretoria
(15) the seat of Government. In 1856 the region was settled by Dutch farmers, who had "trekked"
from Natal (recently annexed by Britain) to escape British Rule, as in 1835, for a similar
reason, they had come from the Cape to Natal. Fierce encounters took place with the native
Basutos, but in the end the "Boers" made good their possession. In 1877 the Republic, then
in a disorganised and impoverished condition, and threatened with extinction by the natives,
came under the care of the British, by whom the natives were reduced and the finances restored.
In 1880 a rising of the Boers to regain complete independence resulted in the Conventions of
1881 and 1884, by which the independence of the Republic was recognised, but subject to the
right of Britain to control the foreign relations. Within recent years agitations were carried
on by the growing "Uitlander" population to obtain a share in the government to which they
contributed in taxes the greater part of the revenue, and a succession of attempts were made
by the British Government to get the Boers to concede the franchise to the "Uitlanders" and
remedy other grievances; but the negotiations connected therewith were suddenly arrested by
an ultimatum of date 9th October 1899, presented to the British Government by the Transvaal,
and allowing them only 48 hours to accept it. It was an ultimatum they were bound to ignore,
and accordingly, the time having expired on the 11th, war was declared by the Boers. It proved
a costly and sanguinary one to both sides in the conflict; but the resistance of the Boers
was ultimately overcome, and hostilities ceased in May 1902. Previously to this, the Colony
had been annexed by Great Britain (1900). It is at present (1905) administered by a Governor,
Lieutenant-Governor, and an Executive Council; but it is proposed that, in the near future,
representative institutions should be granted.

TRANSYLVANIA (2247), eastern division of the Austrian Empire; is a tableland enclosed NE. and
South by the Carpathians, contains wide tracts of forests, and is one-half under tillage or
in pasture; yields large crops of grain and a variety of fruits, and has mines of gold, silver,
copper, iron, &c., though the manufactures and trade are insignificant; the population consists
of Roumanians, Hungarians, and Germans; it was united to Hungary in 1868.

TRAPANI (32), an ancient seaport of Sicily, known in Roman times as DREPANUM, in the NW., 40
m. W. of Palermo; presents now a handsome modern appearance, and trades in wheat, wine, olives, &c.

TRAPPISTS, an order of Cistercian monks founded in 1140 at La Trappe, in the French department
of Orne, noted for the severity of their discipline, their worship of silence and devotion
to work, meditation, and prayer, 12 hours out of the 24 of which they pass in the latter exercise;
their motto is "Memento Mori"; their food is chiefly vegetables.

TRASIMENE LAKE, a historic lake of Italy; lies amid hills between the towns Cortona and Perugia;
shallow and reedy, 10 m. long; associated with Hannibal's memorable victory over the Romans
217 B.C.

TRAVANCORE (2,557), a native State in South India, under British protection, between the Western
Ghâts and the Arabian Sea; it is connected with the Madras Presidency; it is traversed by spurs
of the Western Ghâts, beyond which, westward, is a plain 10 m. wide, covered with coco-nut
and areca palms; the population mainly Hindus; there are native Christians and some black Jews;
Trivandrum is the capital.

TRAVIATA, an opera representing the progress of a courtezan.

TREBIZOND (50), a city and thriving seaport NE. of Asia Minor, the outlet of Persia and Armenia,
on the Black Sea; is walled, and outside are various suburbs; manufactures silks.

TRELAWNEY, EDWARD JOHN, friend of Shelley and Byron; entered the navy as a boy, but deserted
and took to adventure; met with Shelley at Pisa; saw to the cremation of his body when he was
drowned, and went with Byron to Greece; was a brave, but a restless mortal; wrote "Recollections
of the Last Days of Shelley and Byron" (1792-1881).

TRELAWNEY, SIR JONATHAN, one of the seven bishops tried under James II.; is the hero of the
Cornish ballad, "And shall Trelawney die?" d. 1721.

TRENCH, RICHARD CHEVENIX, archbishop of Dublin, born in Dublin; educated at Harrow and Trinity
College, Cambridge; took orders; became curate to Samuel Wilberforce, and wrote "Notes on the
Miracles and Parables" and "The Study of Words"; was Dean of Westminster before he became archbishop
(1807-1886).

TRENCK, BARON VON, general, first in the service of Austria, then of Russia; dismissed from
both; commanded a regiment of pandours in the Austrian Succession War in the interest of Maria
Theresa; tried to capture Frederick the Great; was caught, tried, and condemned to prison,
escaped, was captured, and took poison; had a cousin with a similar fate (1711-1749).

TRENT, an English river, rises in NW. of Staffordshire, flows NE., and unites with the Ouse,
15 m. W. of Hull.

TRENT (21), an Austrian town in S. of Tyrol, in a valley on the Adige, 60 m. N. of Verona;
has an Italian appearance, and Italian is spoken.

TRENT, COUNCIL OF, an oecumenical council, the eighteenth, held at Trent, and whose sittings,
with sundry adjournments, extended from 13th December 1545 until 4th December 1563, the object
of which was to define the position and creed of the Church of Rome in opposition to the doctrines
and claims of the Churches of the Reformation.

TRENTON (73), capital of New Jersey State, on the Delaware River, 57 m. SW. of New York; divided
into two portions by Assanpink Creek, and handsomely laid out in broad, regular streets; public
buildings include a state-house, federal buildings, &c.; is the great emporium in the United
States of crockery and pottery manufactures.

TREPANNING, an operation in surgery whereby portions of the skull are removed by means of an
instrument called a trepan, which consists of a small cylindrical saw; resorted to in all operations
on the brain.

TREVELYAN, SIR GEORGE OTTO, politician and man of letters, born at Rothley Temple, Leicestershire,
son of Sir Charles Trevelyan (a distinguished servant of the East India Company, governor of
Madras, baronet, and author) and Hannah, sister of Lord Macaulay; educated at Harrow and Cambridge,
and entered Parliament as a Liberal in 1865; has held successively the offices of parliamentary
secretary to the Board of Admiralty, Chief Secretary for Ireland, Chancellor of the Duchy of
Lancaster with a seat in the Cabinet, and Secretary for Scotland; resigned his seat in 1897;
has written "Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay," "Early History of Charles James Fox," "The
American Revolution," &c., all of which are characterised by admirable lucidity and grace of
style; b. 1838.

TRÈVES (36), a famous old city of Prussia, beautifully situated on the Moselle, 69 m. SW. of
Coblenz; held to be the oldest city in Germany, and claiming to be 1300 years older than Rome;
is full of most striking Roman remains, and possesses an interesting 11th-century cathedral,
having among many relics the celebrated seamless "Holy Coat," said to have been the one worn
by Christ; manufactures woollens, cottons, and linens, and wine.

TRIBUNES, in ancient Rome officers elected by the plebs to preserve their liberties and protect
them from the tyranny of the aristocratic party, their institution dating from 493 B.C., on
the occasion of a civil tumult.

TRICHINOPOLI (91), capital of a district of same name in Madras Presidency, on the Kaveri,
56 m. inland; is a fortified town, with an imposing citadel, barracks, hospital, &c.; noted
for its cheroots and jewellery; seat of a Roman Catholic bishopric and college.

TRICOLOUR, a flag adopted by the French Revolutionists in 1789, and consisting of three vertical
stripes, blue, white, and red, the blue next the staff.

TRIDENT, originally a three-pronged fork used by fishermen, and at length the symbol, in the
hands of Poseidon and Britannia, of sovereignty over the sea.

TRIESTE (158), an ancient town and still the first seaport of Austro-Hungary; at the head of
the NE. arm of the Adriatic, 214 m. SW. of Vienna; an imperial free city since 1849; consists
of an old and a new town on the level fronting the sea; has a fine harbour and extensive manufactures,
embracing shipbuilding, rope-making, &c.

TRIM, CORPORAL, Uncle Toby's attendant in "Tristram Shandy."

TRIMURTI, the Hindu trinity, embracing BRAHMA THE CREATOR, VISHNU THE PRESERVER, and SIVA (q.
v.) the Destroyer; represented sometimes as a body with three heads, that of Brahma in the
centre, of Vishnu on the right, and of Siva on the left.

TRINCOMALEE (10), an important naval station and seaport on the NE. coast of Ceylon, 110 m.
NE. of Kandy; possesses barracks, official residences, and a splendid harbour, a haven of shelter
to shipping during the monsoons, and is strongly fortified.

TRINIDAD (208), the largest of the Windward Islands, and most southerly of the ANTILLES (q.
v.), lies off the mouth of the Orinoco, 7 m. from the coast of Venezuela; is of great fertility,
with a hot, humid, but not unhealthy climate; sugar, coffee, tobacco, and cocoa are the chief
exports; a source of great wealth is a wonderful pitch lake which, despite the immense quantities
annually taken from it, shows no perceptible diminution; inhabitants are mainly French; taken
by the British in 1797, and forms, with Tobago, a crown colony; capital, Port of Spain.

TRINITARIANS, name applied to those who believe in an ontological as well as those who believe
in a theological trinity, that is to say, who recognise the like principle pervading the universe
of being.

TRINITY, the doctrine, variously interpreted, that in the godhead or divine nature there are
three persons, respectively denominated Father, Son, and Spirit--Father, from whom; Son, to
whom; and Spirit, through whom are all things; is essentially triunity in unity.

TRIPITAKA, (the three baskets), name given to the collection of the sacred books of Buddhism,
as being formed of three minor collections, bearing the Sutras on discipline, the Vinaya on
doctrine, and the Abidharma on metaphysics.

TRIPOD, seat with three legs on which the priestess of Apollo sat when delivering her oracles.

TRIPOLI (17), a seaport of Syria, 40 m. NE. of Beyrout; a place of great antiquity, and successively
in the hands of the Phoenicians, Crusaders, and Mamelukes; it has many interesting Saracenic
and other remains; its trade is passing over to Beyrout.

TRIPOLI (1,000), a province (since 1835) of Turkey, in North Africa, most easterly of the Barbary
States; stretches northwards from the Libyan Desert, lies between Tunis (W.) and Fezzan (E.),
with which latter, as also with Barca, it is politically united; carries on a brisk caravan
trade with Central Africa; capital, Tripoli (20), situated on a spit of rocky land jutting
into the Mediterranean; surrounded by high walls, and Moorish in appearance.

TRIPTOLEMUS, in the Greek mythology the favourite of DEMETER (q. v.), the inventor of the plough,
and of the civilisation therewith connected; played a prominent part in the Eleusinian Mysteries;
was favoured by Demeter for the hospitality he showed her when she was in quest of her daughter.

TRISMEGISTUS (thrice greatest), the Egyptian Hermes, regarded as the fountain of mysticism
and magic.

TRISTAN DA CUNHA, the largest of three small islands lying out in the South Atlantic, about
1300 m. SW. of St. Helena; 20 m. in circumference; taken possession of by the British in 1817,
and utilised as a military and naval station during Napoleon's captivity on St. Helena; now
occupied by a handful of people, who lead a simple, communistic life.

TRISTRAM, SIR, one of the heroes of mediæval romance, whose adventures form an episode in the
history of the Round Table.

TRITON, in the Greek mythology a sea deity, son of Poseidon and Amphitrite; upper part of a
man with a dolphin's tail; often represented as blowing a large spiral shell; there were several
of them, and were heralds of Poseidon.

TRITRATNA, name given to the BUDDHIST TRINITY, BUDDHA, THE DHARMA, and the SANGHA (q. v.).

TROCHU, LOUIS JULES, a distinguished French general, who came to the front during the Crimean
end Italian campaigns, but fell into disfavour for exposing in a pamphlet (1867) the rotten
state of the French army; three years later, on the outbreak of the Franco-German War, was
appointed Governor of Paris, and, after the proclamation of the Republic, general of the defence
of the city till its capitulation, after which he retired into private life (1815-1896).

TROLLOPE, ANTHONY, English novelist; belonged to a literary family; his mother distinguished
as a novelist no less; educated at Winchester and Harrow; held a high position in the Post
Office; his novels were numerous; depict the provincial life of England at the time; the chief
being "Barchester Towers," "Framley Parsonage," and "Dr. Thorne"; wrote a "Life of Cicero,"
and a biography of Thackeray; he was an enthusiastic fox-hunter (1815-1882).

TROMP, CORNELIUS, Dutch admiral, son of succeeding, born at Rotterdam; fought many battles
with the English and proved himself a worthy son of a heroic father; was created a baron by
Charles II. of England (1675); aided the Danes against Sweden, and subsequently succeeded Ruyter
as lieutenant admiral-general of the United Provinces (1629-1691).

TROMP, MARTIN HARPERTZOON, famous Dutch admiral, born at Briel; trained to the sea from his
boyhood, in 1637 was created lieutenant-admiral, and in two years' time had twice scattered
Spanish fleets; defeated by Blake in 1652, but six months later beat back the English fleet
in the Strait of Dover, after which he is said to have sailed down the Channel with a broom
to his masthead as a sign he had swept his enemies from the seas; in 1653 Blake renewed the
attack and inflicted defeat on him after a three days' struggle; in June and July Tromp was
again defeated by the English, and in the last engagement off the coast of Holland was shot
dead (1597-1653).

TROMSÖ, a town (6) and island (65) of Norway, in the NW.

TRONDHJEM (29), an important town, the ancient capital of Norway, on Trondhjem Fjord, 250 m.
N. of Christiania; is well laid out with broad level streets, most of the houses are of wood;
possesses a fine 13th-century cathedral, where the kings of Norway are crowned; carries on
a flourishing trade in copper ore, herrings, oil, &c.; is strongly fortified.

TROPHONIUS, in Greek legend, along with his brother Agamedes, the architect of the temple of
Apollo at Delphi; had a famous oracle in a cave in Boeotia, which could only be entered at night.

TROPICS, two parallels of latitude on either side of the equator, which mark the limits N.
and S. of the sun's verticality to the earth's surface, the distance being in each case 23½°;
the northern tropic is called the Tropic of Cancer, and the southern the Tropic of Capricorn.

TROPPAU (21), capital of Austrian Silesia, 184 m. E. of Vienna; contains a castle, gymnasium,
and an extensive library; manufactures linen and woollen textiles, beetroot sugar, &c.

TROSSACHS, a romantic pass in the Perthshire Highlands, 8 m. W. of Callander, stretching for
about a mile between Lochs Katrine and Achray, is charmingly wooded; is celebrated by Sir Walter
Scott in his "Lady of the Lake."

TROUBADOURS, a class of poets who flourished in Provence, Eastern Spain, and Northern Italy
from the 11th to the 13th century, whose songs in the Langue d'Oc were devoted to subjects
lyrical and amatory, and who not infrequently were men of noble birth and bore arms as knights,
and as such were distinguished from the Jongleurs, who were mere strolling minstrels.

TROUVÈRES, a class of ancient poets in Northern France, who like the Troubadours of Southern
France were of court standing, but whose poems, unlike those of the Troubadours, were narrative
or epic.

TROWBRIDGE (12), a market-town of Wiltshire, 25 m. NW. of Salisbury; has a fine 15th-century
Perpendicular church, in which the poet Crabbe is buried; has woollen and fine cloth manufactures.

TROY, a city of Troas, a territory NW. of Mysia, Asia Minor, celebrated as the scene of the
world-famous legend immortalised by the "Iliad" of Homer in his account of the war caused by
the rape of Helen, and which ended with the destruction of the city at the hands of the avenging
Greeks.

TROY (61), capital of Rensselaer County, New York, on the Hudson River, 5 m. above Albany;
possesses handsome public buildings, and is a busy centre of textile, heavy iron goods, and
other manufactures; has daily steamship service with New York.

TROYES (50), a quaint old town of France, capital of the department of Aube, on the Seine,
100 m. SE. of Paris; possesses a fine Flamboyant Gothic cathedral, founded in 872, several
handsome old churches, a large public library; has flourishing manufactures of textile fabrics,
and trades in agricultural produce; here in 1420 was signed the Treaty of Troyes, making good
the claims of Henry V. of England to the French crown.

TRUCK-SYSTEM, the paying of workmen's wages in goods in place of money; found useful where
works are far distant from towns, but liable to the serious abuse from inferior goods being
supplied; Acts of Parliament have been passed to abolish the system, but evasions of the law
are not uncommon.

TRUMBULL, JONATHAN, an American patriot, judge and governor of Connecticut, who supported the
movement for independence with great zeal; was much esteemed and consulted by Washington, whose
frequent phrase, "Let us hear what Brother Jonathan says," gave rise to the appellation "Brother
Jonathan" (1710-1785).

TRUNNION, COMMODORE HAWSER, an eccentric retired naval officer in Smollett's "Peregrine Pickle,"
affects the naval commander in his retirement.

TRURO (11), an episcopal city and seaport of Cornwall; exports largely tin and copper from
surrounding mines; its bishopric was revived in 1876, and a handsome Early English cathedral
is nearing completion; has also infirmary, old grammar-school, libraries, &c.

TUAM (4), a town of Galway, Ireland, 129 m. NW. of Dublin; is the seat of an Anglican bishop
and of a Catholic archbishop.

TÜBINGEN (13), a celebrated university town of Würtemberg, 18 m. SW. of Stuttgart; is quaint
and crowded in the old town, but spreads out into spacious and handsome suburbs, where is situated
the new university. Under Melanchthon and Reuchlin the old university became a distinguished
seat of learning, and later, during the professorship of BAUR (q. v.), acquired celebrity as
a school of advanced biblical criticism, which gave great stimulus to a more rationalistic
interpretation of the Scripture narratives; has now an excellent medical school; also book
printing and selling, and other industries are actively carried on.

TUCKER, ABRAHAM, author of "The Light of Nature Pursued"; educated at Oxford and the Inner
Temple, but possessed of private means betook himself to a quiet country life near Dorking
and engaged in philosophical studies, the fruit of which he embodied in seven volumes of miscellaneous
theological and metaphysical writing (1705-1774).

TUCUMAN, a north-central province (210) and town (26) of the Argentine Republic, the latter
on the Rio Sil, 723 m. NW. of Buenos Ayres.

TUDELA (9), ecclesiastical city of Spain, on the Ebro, 46 m. NW. of Saragossa.

TUDOR, the family name of the royal house that occupied the English throne from 1485 (accession
of Henry VII.) to 1603 (death of Queen Elizabeth), founded by Owen Tudor, a Welsh gentleman,
who became Clerk of the Household, and subsequently the husband of Catherine of Valois, widow
of Henry V.; their son, Edmund, Earl of Richmond, married Margaret Beaufort, a direct descendant
of Edward III., and became the father of Henry VII.

TULA (64), capital of a government (1,409) of the same name in Central Russia, 107 m. S. of
Moscow, the residence of a military and of a civil governor, the seat of a bishop, and a busy
centre of firearms, cutlery, and other manufactures.

TULCHAN BISHOPS, bishops appointed in Scotland by James VI. to draw the Church revenues for
his behoof in part, a tulchan being "a calf-skin stuffed into the rude similitude of a calf"
to induce the cow to give her milk freely; "so of the bishops, which the Scotch lairds were
glad to construct and make the milk come without disturbance."

TULLE (15), a town of France, capital of the dep. of Corrèze, 115 m. NE. of Bordeaux; possesses
a cathedral, episcopal palace, &c.; chief manufacture firearms; the fine silk fabric which
takes its name from it is no longer manufactured here.

TUNBRIDGE (10), a market-town of Kent, 11 m. SW. of Maidstone, with a fine old castle, a notable
grammar-school, and manufactures of fancy wood-wares.

TUNBRIDGE WELLS (28), a popular watering-place on the border of Kent and Sussex, 34 m. SE.
of London; with chalybeate waters noted for upwards of 250 years.

TUNIS (1,500), a country of North Africa, slightly larger than Portugal; since 1882 a protectorate
of France; forms an eastern continuation of Algeria, fronting the Mediterranean to the N. and
E., and stretching S. to the Sahara and Tripoli; is inhabited chiefly by Bedouin Arabs; presents
a hilly, and in parts even mountainous, aspect; its fertile soil favours the culture of fruits,
olives, wheat, and esparto, all of which are in gradually increasing amounts exported; fine
marble has been recently found, and promises well. The capital is Tunis (134), situated at
the SW. end of the Lake of Tunis, a few miles SE. of the ruined city of CARTHAGE (q. v.); is
for the most part a crowded unwholesome place, but contains well-supplied bazaars, finely decorated
mosques, the bey's palace, a citadel, and is showing signs of improvement under French management.

TUNSTALL (16), a market-town of Staffordshire, 4½ m. NE. of Newcastle-under-Lyme, is a coal-centre,
with manufactures of earthenware and iron.

TUPPER, MARTIN, author of "Proverbial Philosophy," born in Marylebone; bred to the bar; wrote
some 40 works, but the "Philosophy" (1838), though dead now, had a quite phenomenal success,
having sold in thousands and hundreds of thousands, as well as being translated into various
foreign languages (1810-1889).

TURENNE, VICOMTE DE, a famous marshal of France, born at Sedan of noble parentage; was trained
in the art of war under his uncles Maurice and Henry of Nassau in Holland, and entered the
French service in 1630 under the patronage of Richelieu; gained great renown during the Thirty
Years' War; during the wars of the FRONDE (q. v.) first sided with the "Frondeurs," but subsequently
joined Mazarin and the court party; crushed his former chief Condé; invaded successfully the
Spanish Netherlands, and so brought the revolt to an end; was created Marshal-General of France
in 1660; subsequently conducted to a triumphant issue wars within Spain (1667), Holland (1672),
and during 1674 conquered and devastated the Palatinate, but during strategical operations
conducted against the Austrian general Montecuculi was killed by a cannon-ball (1611-1675).

TURGOT, ANNE ROBERT JACQUES, French statesman, born at Paris, of Norman descent; early embraced
the doctrines of the philosophe party, and held for 13 years the post of intendant of Limoges,
the affairs of which he administered with ability, and was in 1774 called by Louis XVI. to
the management of the national finances, which he proceeded to do on economical principles,
but in all his efforts was thwarted by the privileged classes, and in some 20 months was compelled
to resign and leave the matter to the fates, he himself retiring into private life (1727-1781).

TURIN (230), a celebrated city of North Italy, a former capital of Piedmont, 80 m. NW. of Genoa;
although one of the oldest of Italian cities it presents quite a modern appearance, with handsome
streets, statues, squares, gardens, a Renaissance cathedral, palaces, university (over 2000
students), large library, colleges and museums, &c.; manufactures are chiefly of textiles;
has an interesting history from the time of its first mention in Hannibal's day.

TURKESTAN, a wide region in Central Asia, divided by the Pamir plateau into sections: (1) WESTERN
TURKESTAN, which embraces Russian Turkestan (3,342), the KHANATES OF KHIVA (q. v.) and BOKHARA
(q. v.), and Afghan Turkestan. (2) EASTERN TURKESTAN (600), formerly called Chinese Tartary;
unproductive in many parts, and but sparsely populated; produces some gold, and a considerable
quantity of silk, besides linens and cottons.

TURKEY or THE OTTOMAN EMPIRE, a great Mohammedan State embracing wide areas in Eastern Europe
and Western Asia, besides the province of Tripoli in North Africa, and the tributary States
Bulgaria and Eastern Roumelia, Bosnia and Herzegovina (under Austria), Cyprus (under Britain),
Samos and Egypt (practically controlled by Britain). EUROPEAN TURKEY (4,786), which during
the last 200 years has been gradually losing territory, now comprises a narrow strip of land
between the Adriatic (W.) and the Black Sea (E.), about twice the size of England; is traversed
by the Dinaric Alps and Pindus Mountains, which strike southwards into Greece, while offshoots
from the BALKANS (q. v.) diversify the E.; climate is very variable, and is marked by high
winds and extremes of cold and heat; the soil is remarkably fertile and well adapted for the
cultivation of cereals, but agricultural enterprise is hampered by excessive taxation; there
is abundance of the useful metals; is the only non-Christian State in Europe. ASIATIC TURKEY
(16,000) is bounded N. by the Black Sea, S. by the Arabian Desert and the Mediterranean, E.
by Persia and Transcaucasia, and W. by the Archipelago; has an area more than ten times that
of Turkey in Europe, is still more mountainous, being traversed by the Taurus, Anti-Taurus,
and the Lebanon ranges; is ill watered, and even the valleys of the Euphrates, Tigris, and
Jordan are subject to great drought in the summer; embraces ASIA MINOR (q. v.), SYRIA (q. v.),
PALESTINE (q. v.), and the coast strips of Arabia along the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf; chief
exports are fruits, silk, cotton, wool, opium, &c. The population of the Ottoman Empire is
of a most heterogeneous character, embracing Turks, Greeks, Slavs, Albanians, Armenians, Syrians,
Arabs, Tartars, &c. The government is a pure despotism, and the Sultan is regarded as the Caliph
or head of Islam; military service is compulsory, and the army on a war footing numbers not
less than 750,000, but the navy is small; since 1847 there has been considerable improvement
in education; the finances have long been mismanaged, and an annual deficit of two millions
sterling is now a usual feature of the national budget; the foreign debt is upwards of 160
millions. From the 17th century onwards the once wide empire of the Turks has been gradually
dwindling away. The Turks are essentially a warlike race, and commerce and art have not flourished
with them. Their literature is generally lacking in virility, and is mostly imitative and devoid
of national character.

TURNER, CHARLES TENNYSON, an elder brother of Alfred Tennyson; a man of fine nature and delicate
susceptibility as a poet, whose friendship and "heart union" with his greater brother is revealed
in "Poems by Two Brothers" (1808-1879).

TURNER, JOSEPH MALLORD WILLIAM, great English landscape painter, born probably in London, the
son of a hairdresser; had little education, and grew up illiterate, as he remained all his
days; took to art from his earliest boyhood; soon became acquainted with the artist class,
and came under the notice of Sir Joshua Reynolds; began to exhibit at 15; was elected Associate
of the Royal Academy at 24, and made an Academician at 28; he took interest in nothing but
art, and led the life of a recluse; was never married, and was wedded solely to his work; travelled
much in England and on the Continent, sketching all day long; produced in water-colour and
oil scene after scene, and object after object, as they impressed him, and represented them
as he saw them; being a man of moderate desires he lived economically, and he died rich, leaving
his means to found an asylum for distressed artists; of his works there is no space to take
note here; yet these are all we know of the man, and they stamp him as a son of genius, who
saw visions and dreamed dreams; he early fascinated the young Ruskin; Ruskin's literary career
began with the publication of volume after volume in his praise, and in his enthusiasm he characterised
him as the "greatest painter of all time" (1775-1851). See PERUGINO.

TURNER, SHARON, historian, born in London, where he led a busy life as an attorney; devoted
his leisure to historical studies, the first of which were "History of Anglo-Saxons" and "History
of England from the Norman Conquest to the Death of Elizabeth," essays, &c. (1768-1847).

TURPIN, DICK, a felon executed at York for horse-stealing; celebrated for his ride to York
in Ainsworth's "Rookwood."

TUSCANY (2,274), a department of Italy, formerly a grand-duchy, lies S. and W. of the Apennines,
fronting the Tyrrhenian Sea on the W.; mountainous in the N. and E., but otherwise consisting
of fertile dale and plain, in which the vine, olive, and fruits abound; silk is an important
manufacture, and the marble quarries of Siena are noted; formed a portion of ancient ETRURIA
(q. v.); was annexed to Sardinia in 1859, and in 1861 was incorporated in the kingdom of Italy.
Capital, Florence.

TUSCULUM, a ruined Roman city, 15 m. SE. of Rome; at one time a favourite country resort of
wealthy Romans; Brutus, Cæsar, Cicero, and others had villas here; was stormed to ruins in
1191; has many interesting remains.

TUSSAUD, MADAME, foundress of the famous waxwork show in London, born at Berne, and trained
in her art in Paris; patronised by the sister of Louis XVI.; was imprisoned during the Revolution,
and in 1802 came to London (1760-1850).

TWEED, a famous river of Scotland, rises in the S. of Peeblesshire, and flows for 97 m. in
a generally north-eastward direction; enters the German Ocean at Berwick; is a noted salmon
river, and inseparably associated with the glories of Scottish literature and history.

TWICKENHAM (16), a town of Middlesex, on the Thames, 11½ m. SW. of London; a fashionable resort
in the 18th century; the dwelling-place of Pope, Horace Walpole, Turner, and others.

TWISS, SIR TRAVERS, jurist and economist, born in Westminster; professor of Political Economy
at Oxford, and subsequently of Civil Law; drew up in 1884 a constitution for the Congo Free
State; his writings include "View of the Progress of Political Economy since the Sixteenth
Century," "International Law," "The Law of Nations," all of which rank as standard and authoritative
works (1809-1897).

TWIST, OLIVER, hero of Dickens's novel of the name.

TYCHE, the Greek name of the Latin goddess Fortuna, represented with various attributes to
symbolise her fickleness, her influence, her generosity, &c.

TYLER, EDWARD BURNET, a distinguished anthropologist, born at Camberwell; in 1856 he travelled
through Mexico in company with Henry Christy, the ethnologist; five years later published "Anahuac;
or, Mexico and the Mexicans"; in 1883 became keeper of the Oxford University Museum and reader
in Anthropology; in 1888 was appointed Gifford Lecturer at Aberdeen, and in 1891 president
of the Anthropological Society; his great works are "Researches into the Early History of Mankind"
and "Primitive Culture"; b. 1832.

TYLER, JOHN, president of the United States, born in Charles City County, Virginia; became
a barrister; elected vice-president of the United States in 1840, and on the death of Harrison
succeeded to the presidential office; showed much independence and strength of mind, exercising
his veto on several occasions; the ASHBURTON (q. v.) Treaty and the annexation of Texas were
the principal events of his presidency; made strenuous endeavours to secure peace in 1861,
but failing sided with the South, and was a member of the Confederate Congress (1790-1862).

TYLER, WAT, a tiler in Dartford, Kent, who roused into rebellion the long-discontented and
over-taxed peasantry of England by striking dead in 1381 a tax-gatherer who had offered insult
to his young daughter; under Tyler and Jack Straw a peasant army was mustered in Kent and Essex,
and a descent made on London; the revolters were disconcerted by the tact of the young king
RICHARD II. (q. v.), and in a scuffle Tyler was killed by Walworth, Mayor of London.

TYNDAL, JOHN, physicist, born in co. Carlow, Ireland; succeeded Faraday at the Royal Institution;
wrote on electricity, sound, light, and heat, as well as on the "Structure and Motion of the
Glaciers," in opposition to Forbes, whose theory was defended in strong terms by Ruskin; wrote
also "Lectures on Science for Unscientific People," much praised by Huxley (1820-1893).

TYNE, river of North England, formed by the confluence near Hexham of the N. Tyne from the
Cheviots, and the S. Tyne, which rises on Cross Fell, in E. Cumberland; forms the boundary
between Durham and Northumberland, and after a course of 32 m. enters the sea between Tynemouth
and South Shields.

TYNEMOUTH (28 township, 46 borough), a popular watering-place of Northumberland, at the mouth
of the Tyne, 9 m. E. of Newcastle; has a fine sweep of promenaded shore, an aquarium, pier,
lighthouse, baths, &c.; North Shields and several villages lie within the borough boundaries.

TYPHON, in the Greek mythology a fire-breathing giant, struck by a thunderbolt of Jupiter,
and buried under Etna.

TYRANTS, in ancient Greece men who usurped or acquired supreme authority in a State at some
political crisis, who were despotic in their policy, but not necessarily cruel, often the reverse.

TYRCONNEL, RICHARD TALBOT, EARL OF, a Catholic politician and soldier, whose career during
the reigns of Charles II. and James II. is a record of infamous plotting and treachery in support
of the Catholic Stuarts; was created an earl and lord-deputy of Ireland by James II.; fled
to France after the battle of the Boyne (1625-1691).

TYRE, a famous city of ancient PHOENICIA (q. v.), about 30 m. N. of Acre; comprised two towns,
one on the mainland, the other on an island opposite; besieged and captured in 332 B.C. by
Alexander the Great, who connected the towns by a causeway, which, by silting sands, has grown
into the present isthmus; its history goes back to the 10th century B.C., when it was held
by Hiram, the friend of Solomon, and sustained sieges by Nebuchadnezzar and others; was reduced
by Cæsar Augustus, but again rose to be one of the most flourishing cities of the East in the
4th century A.D.; fell into ruins under the Turks, and is now reduced to some 5000 of a population.

TYROL (929), a crownland of Austria; lies between Bavaria (N.) and Italy (S. and W.); traversed
by three ranges of the Alps and by the rivers Inn and Adige; it is famed for the beauty of
its scenery; inhabited by Catholic Germans and Italians; sheep-farming, mining, and forest,
fruit, and wine cultivation are the chief industries; capital INNSBRUCK (q. v.).

TYRONE (171), a central county of Ulster, Ireland; is hilly, picturesque, and fertile in the
lower districts; a considerable portion is taken up by barren mountain slopes and bogland,
and agriculture is backward; coal and marble are wrought; Omagh is the capital, and Strabane
and Dungannon are prosperous towns.

TYRONE, HUGH O'NEIL, EARL OF, a notable Irish rebel; assumed the title of "The O'Neil," and
offered open rebellion to Queen Elizabeth's authority, but, despite assistance from Spain,
was subdued by Essex and Mountjoy; was permitted to retain his earldom, but in James I.'s reign
was again discovered intriguing with Spain; fled the country, and had his lands confiscated;
d. 1616.

TYRRHENIAN SEA, an arm of the Mediterranean, stretching between Corsica, Sardinia, and Sicily
on the W., and Italy on the E.

TYRTÆUS, a lyric poet of ancient Greece, of the 7th century B.C., and whose war-songs greatly
heartened the Spartans in their struggle with the Messenians.

TYRWHITT, THOMAS, English scholar, the son of an English Church canon, born in London; was
a Fellow of Merton in 1755, and in 1762 became clerk to the House of Commons, a post, however,
which proved too arduous for him, and in 1768 he resigned; the remainder of his life was given
to literary pursuits; produced the first adequate edition of Chaucer (1775), besides an edition
of Aristotle's "Poetics," and books on Chatterton's "Rowley Poems," &c. (1730-1786).

TYTLER, PATRICK FRASER, historian, son of Alexander Fraser Tytler, a lord of Session under
the title of Lord Woodhouselee, author of the "Elements of History" (1747-1813), born in Edinburgh;
abandoned the bar for literature, and established his fame by his scholarly "History of Scotland";
wrote biographies of Wycliffe, Raleigh, Henry VIII., &c.; received a Government pension from
Sir Robert Peel (1791-1849).

U

UCAYALI, a tributary of the Amazon, which rises in the S. Peruvian Andes, and which it joins
after a northward course of over 1000 m.

UDALL, NICHOLAS, author of "Ralph Roister-Doister," the earliest of English comedies, and "the
earliest picture of London manners," born in Hants; was a graduate of Oxford, and head-master
first of Eton and subsequently of Westminister School (1505-1556).

UEBERWEG, FRIEDRICH, German philosopher, professor at Königsberg; author of a "History of Philosophy,"
an excellent text-book (1826-1871).

UGANDA, a territory in East Africa along the N. and NW. shore of Victoria Nyanza, with a population
of from 300,000 to 500,000, and the seat of an active mission propaganda on the part of both
the Catholic and Protestant Churches; has since 1890 been under British protection. The capital
is Mengo.

UGOLINO, COUNT, tyrant of Pisa; was of the Guelph party; celebrated for his tragic fate; having
fallen into the hands of his enemies, he was in 1288 thrown into a dungeon along with his two
sons and two grandsons, and starved to death, a fate which suggested to Dante one of the most
terrible episodes in his "Inferno"; the dungeon referred to has since borne the name of the
"Tower of Hunger."

UHLAND, JOHANN LUDWIG, German poet, born at Tübingen; studied law, and wrote essays as well
as poems, but it is on the latter his fame rests, and that is as wide as the German world;
he was a warm-hearted patriot, and in keen sympathy with the cause of German liberation (1787-1862).

UHLANS, a body of light cavalry in the German army, introduced first into the Polish service,
and of Tartar origin it is said.

UIST, two islands of the Outer Hebrides, called respectively North and South, forming part
of Inverness-shire; separated by the island of Benbecula, with a population of over 3000 each;
engaged chiefly in fishing.

UKASE, an edict issued by the Czar, having the force of a law.

UKRAINE (frontier), a fertile Russian province of undefined limits in the basin of Dnieper,
originally a frontier territory of Poland against the Tartars.

ULEABORG (11), a seaport town in Russian Finland, near the head of the Gulf of Bothnia; trades
in wood and tar.

ULEMA, a body in Turkey, or any Mohammedan country, of the learned in the Mohammedan religion
and law, such as the Imams, or religious teachers, the Muftis, or expounders of the law and
the Cadis, or judges; its decrees are called "fetvas."

ULLMANN, KARL, German theologian; was professor at Heidelberg: wrote "Reformers before the
Reformation," but is best known as author of "The Sinlessness of Jesus" (1796-1865).

ULLSWATER, second largest of the English lakes, lies between Cumberland and Westmorland, 8
m. long, and its average breadth 1 m.; is looked down upon by Helvellyn, on the SW.

ULM (36), city of Würtemberg, on the Danube, 46 m. SE. of Stuttgart; was an imperial free city,
and is a place of great importance; is famed for its cathedral, which for size ranks next to
Cologne, as well as for its town hall; has textile manufactories and breweries, and is famed
for its confectionery; here General Mack, with 28,000 Austrians, surrendered to Marshal Key
in 1805.

ULOTRICHI, name given to the races that have crisp or woolly hair.

ULPHILAS, Gothic bishop; famous for his translation of the Scriptures into Gothic, the part
which remains being of great philological value; was an Arian in theology (311-381).

ULRICI, HERMANN, German philosopher and literary critic, born in Lower Lusatia; professor at
Halle; wrote against the Hegelian philosophy as pantheistic, and also studies in Shakespeare
(1806-1884).

ULSTER (1,617), the northern province of Ireland, is divided into the nine counties of Antrim,
Armagh, Cavan, Donegal, Down, Fermanagh, Londonderry, Monaghan, and Tyrone, and has an area
of 8560 sq. m.; became an English settlement in 1611, and was largely colonised from Scotland;
it is the most Protestant part of the island, though the Catholics predominate, and is the
most enterprising and prosperous part; the land is extensively cultivated, and flax growing
and spinning the chief industries.

ULTIMUS ROMANORUM (the last of the Romans), name given by Cæsar to Brutus, as one with whom
the old Roman spirit would become extinct; applied to the last of any sturdy race.

ULTRAMONTANISM, name given to extreme views in the matter of the prerogatives and authority
of the Pope, so called in France as prevailing on the other side of the Alps.

ULUGH-BEG, a Tartar prince, grandson of Tamerlane; astronomy was a favourite study of his,
and in the patronage of it he founded an observatory at Samarcand; after a reign of 40 years
conjointly with his father and by himself, he was put to death by a son who had rebelled against
him (1394-1449).

ULYSSES (i. e. Greek Odysseus), chieftain of Ithaca, one of the Greek heroes in the Trojan
War, in which he was with difficulty persuaded to join, but in which, however, he did good
service both by his courage and his counsels; he is less famed for what he did before Troy
than for what befell him in his ten years' wandering homeward after, as recorded by Homer in
a separate poem called after him the "ODYSSEY" (q. v.), which relates his stay among the LOTUS-EATERS
(q. v.), his encounter with POLYPHEMUS (q. v.), the enchantments of CIRCE (q. v.), the SIRENS
(q. v.), and CALYPSO (q. v.), and his shipwreck, &c. Tennyson represents him as impatient of
the humdrum life of Ithaca on his return, and as longing to join his Trojan comrades in the
Isles of the Blessed. See PENELOPE and TELEMACHUS.

ULYSSES' BOW, a bow which only Ulysses could wield.

UMA (the gracious one), the consort of SIVA (q. v.), and sometimes also of RUDRA (q. v.).

UMBALLA (499), a city in the Punjab, 150 m. NW. of Delhi; is an important military station
and a railway centre; carries on a large trade.

UMBRIA, a province of ancient Italy, between Cisalpine Gaul and the territory of the Sabines;
inhabited originally by a powerful Latin race.

UMLAUT, name given by Grimm to the modification of a vowel in a syllable through the influence
of a vowel in the succeeding.

UNA (i. e. who is one), the personification of Truth, the companion of St. George in his adventures,
and who, after various adventures herself, is at last wedded to him.

UNCIAL LETTERS, large round characters or letters used in ancient MSS.

UNCLE SAM, name given to the United States Government, derived from a humorous translation
of the initials U.S.

UNCONSCIOUS, THE, name given to a spiritual supernatural influence operating in and affecting
the life and character, but which we are not sensible of ourselves, and still less reveal a
conscious sense of to others.

UNDERSTANDING, THE. See REASON.

UNDINE, a female spirit of the watery element, naturally without, but capable of receiving,
a human soul, particularly after being wedded to a man and after giving birth to a child.

UNDULATORY THEORY, the theory that light is due to vibrations or undulations in the ether as
the medium through which it is transmitted from its source in a luminous body.

UNEARNED INCREMENT, increase in the value of land or any property without expenditure of any
kind on the part of the proprietor.

UNICORN, a fabulous animal like a horse, with a cubit and a half long horn on the forehead;
was adopted by James I. as the symbol of Scotland on the royal arms; is in Christian art a
symbol of the incarnation, and an emblem of female chastity.

UNIFORMITY, ACT OF, an Act passed in England in 1662 regulating the form of public prayers
and rites to be observed in all churches, and which had the effect of driving hundreds of clergymen
from the Established Church.

UNIGENITUS, THE BULL, a bull beginning with this word, issued by Pope Clement XI. in 1713 against
JANSENISM (q. v.) in France, and which was in 1730 condemned by the civil authorities in Paris.

UNION, FEDERAL, name given to a union of several States in defence or promotion of the common
good, while each State is independent of the rest in local matters.

UNION, THE, a name applied in the English history to (1) the Union of England and Scotland
in 1603 under one crown, by the accession of James VI. of Scotland to the throne of England
on the death of Elizabeth; (2) the Union of England and Scotland in 1707, under one Parliament
seated at Westminster, into the United Kingdom of Great Britain; and (3) to the Union of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain to Ireland in 1801, when the Irish Parliament was abolished,
and was represented, as it still is, in the Imperial.

UNION JACK, originally the flag of Great Britain, on which the crosses of St. George and St.
Andrew are blended, with which certain white streaks were blended or fimbriated after the Union
with Ireland.

UNIONISTS, name given to the Liberal party opposed to Mr. Gladstone's measure to grant Home
Rule to Ireland.

UNITARIANS, a designation applicable to all monotheists in religion, including Jews and Mohammedans,
but generally and more specially applied to those who deny the Church doctrine of the Trinity,
and in particular the divinity of Christ, and who have at different times and in different
countries assumed an attitude, both within the pale of the Church and outside of it, of protestation
against the opposite orthodox creed in the interests of rationalistic belief; the name is also
employed in philosophy to designate those who resolve the manifold of being into the operation
of some single principle.

UNITED BRETHREN, name given to the MORAVIANS (q. v.).

UNITED PRESBYTERIANS, a body of Presbyterians in Scotland who dissent from the Established
Church on chiefly ecclesiastical grounds, and had their origin in union in 1847 of the Secession
Church of 1733 with the Relief Church of 1752, bodies previously in dissent as well. A further
union of the United Presbyterian body with the Free Church is to all appearance about to be
consummated.

UNITED PROVINCES. See HOLLAND.

UNITED STATES (62,622), the great Western republic; occupies an area nearly as large as all
Europe, bounded on the N. by the Dominion of Canada, on the E. by the Atlantic, on the S. by
Mexico and the Gulf, and on the W. by the Pacific, extending 2700 m. from E. to W., and on
an average 1600 m. from N. to S.; on the coasts are few capes, inlets, and islands, except
on that of New England; there are two great mountain systems, the Appalachians on the E. and
the Rockies, the Cascade ranges, &c., on the W., which divide the territory into four regions--an
eastern, which slopes from the Appalachians to the Atlantic, a manufacturing region; a central,
which slopes S., formed by the Mississippi Valley, an agricultural and pastoral region; a plateau
supported by the Rocky and Cascade ranges, a metalliferous region; and a territory with the
valley of the Sacramento, which slopes to the Pacific, of varied resources. The great rivers
are in the Mississippi Valley, as also the two largest lakes, the Michigan and Great Salt Lake,
though there are important rivers both for navigation and water-power on the Atlantic and Pacific
slopes. The climate is of every variety, from sub-arctic to sub-tropic, with extremes both
as regards temperature and moisture, in consequence of which the vegetation is varied. The
mineral wealth is immense, and includes, besides large beds of coal, all the useful metals.
The industries, too, are manifold, and embrace manufactures of all kinds, with agriculture,
grazing, mining, and fishing, while commerce is prosecuted with an activity that defies all
rivalry, the facilities in railway and waterway being such as no other country can boast of,
for there are over 182,000 miles of railway, not to mention street railways and traction lines,
with telegraphic and telephonic communication. The population is mostly of British and German
descent, with eight million negroes, who are all English-spoken. The Government is a federal
republic of 45 States; the legislature consists of two Houses--a Senate representing the States,
each one sending two members, and a House of Representatives representing the people, every
citizen over 21 having a vote, and every 170,000 voters having a representative--the head of
the Government being the President, elected for a term of four years, and commander-in-chief
of both army and navy. Religious equality prevails through all the States, though the Protestant
section of the Church is in the ascendant, and education is free and general, though backward
in some of the former slave-holding States, the cost being met by State or local funds, supplemented
by the Federal Government.

UNITIES, THREE, name given to the rule laid down by Aristotle that a tragedy should be limited
to one subject, to one place, and a single day.

UNIVERSALISTS, a body of Christians who profess to believe in the final restoration of all
the fallen, angels as well as men; a body chiefly of American growth, having an ecclesiastical
organisation, and embracing a membership of 40,000; there are many of them Unitarians, and
all are more or less Pelagian in their views of sin.

UNKNOWN, THE GREAT, name given to Sir Walter Scott from withholding his name in publishing
the Waverley novels.

UNTERWALDEN (27), a canton of Switzerland S. and E. of Lucerne, consisting of two parallel
valleys 15 m. long running N. and S.; an entirely pastoral country, and exports articles of
husbandry.

UNYANYEMBE, a district of German East Africa, with a town of the name, with a settlement of
Arabs who cultivate the soil, the fruits of which they export.

UNYORO (1,500), a native State of Central Africa, between Lake Albert Nyanza and the territory
of Uganda.

UPAN`ISHADS (Instructions), a voluminous heterogeneous collection of treatises connected with
the Vedas, and the chief source of our knowledge of the early metaphysical speculations and
ethical doctrines of the Hindus; they are to a great extent apocryphal, and are posterior to
the rise of Buddhism.

UPAS TREE, a poison-yielding-tree, at one time fabled to exhale such poison that it was destructive
to all animal and vegetable life for miles round it.

UPOLU (16), the principal island in the SAMOAN GROUP (q. v.), is 140 m. in circumference, and
rises in verdure-clad terraces from a belt of low land on the shore, with Apia, the capital
of the group, on the N. border.

UPPINGHAM, market-town in Rutland, with a famous public school.

UPSALA (21), the ancient capital of Sweden, on the Sala, 21 m. NW. of Stockholm, the seat of
the Primate, and of a famous university with 1900 students, and a library of 250,000 volumes;
its cathedral, built of brick in the Gothic style, is the largest in Sweden, contains the tombs
of Linnæus and of Gustavus Vasa.

URAL, a river of Russia, which rises in the E. of the Urals and forms part of the boundary
between Europe and Asia, and falls after a course of 870 m. by a number of mouths into the
Caspian Sea.

URALS, THE, a range of mountains rich in precious as well as useful metals, extending from
the Arctic Sea to the Sea of Aral, and separating European from Asiatic Russia, and is 1330
m. in length, 60 m. in breadth, and 3000 ft. in average height.

URALSK (26), a town, a Cossack centre, on the Ural River, 280 m. from the Caspian Sea, and
a place of considerable trade.

URANIA, the muse of astronomy, is represented with a globe in her hand, to which she points
with a small rod.

URANUS, a planet, the outermost but one of the solar system, is 1770 millions of miles from
the sun, takes 30,686 of our days, or 84 of our years, to revolve round it, has four times
the diameter of the earth, and is accompanied by four moons; it was discovered in 1781 by Herschel,
and called by him Georgium Sidus in honour of George III.

URANUS (Heaven), in the Greek mythology the son of Gaia (the Earth), and by her the father
of the Titans; he hated his children, and at birth thrust them down to Tartarus, to the grief
of Gaia, at whose instigation Kronos, the youngest born, unmanned him, and seized the throne
of the Universe, to be himself supplanted in turn by his son Zeus.

URBAN, the name of eight popes: URBAN I., Pope from 223 to 230; URBAN II., Pope from 1088 to
1099, warm promoter of the first Crusade; URBAN III., pope from 1185 to 1187; URBAN IV., Pope
from 1261 to 1264; URBAN V., Pope from 1362 to 1370, man of an ascetic temper; URBAN VI., Pope
from 1378 to 1389, in his reign the schism in the papacy began which lasted 40 years; URBAN
VII., Pope in 1590; and URBAN VIII., Pope from 1623 to 1644, founded the College de Propaganda
Fide.

URBINO, an ancient town of Central Italy, 20 m. SW. of Pesaro; was once the capital of a duchy;
is the seat of an archbishop, and was the birthplace of Raphael.

URI (17), a Swiss canton N. of Unterwalden; is almost entirely pastoral; is overlooked by Mount
St. Gothard; Altdorf is the capital.

URIM AND THUMMIM, two ornaments attached to the breastplate of the Jewish high-priest which,
when consulted by him, at times gave mysteriously oracular responses.

URQUHART, SIR THOMAS, of Cromarty, a cavalier and supporter of Charles I., and a great enemy
of the Covenanters in Scotland; travelled much, and acquired a mass of miscellaneous knowledge,
which he was fain to display and did display in a most pedantic style; posed as a philologist
and a mathematician, but executed one classical work, a translation of Rabelais; is said to
have died in a fit of laughter at the news of the restoration of Charles II. (1605-1660).

URSA MAJOR, the Greater Bear, a well-known constellation in the northern hemisphere, called
also the Plough, the Wagon, or Charles's Wain, consists of seven bright stars, among others
three of which are known as the "handle" of the Plough, and two as the pointers, so called
as pointing to the pole-star.

URSA MINOR, the Lesser Bear, an inconspicuous constellation, the pole-star forming the tip
of the tail.

URSULA, ST., virgin saint and martyr, daughter of a British king; sought in marriage by a heathen
prince, whom she accepted on condition that he became a Christian and that he would wait three
years till she and her 11,000 maidens accomplished a pilgrimage to Rome; this pilgrimage being
accomplished, on their return to Cologne they were set upon and all save her slain by a horde
of Huns, who reserved her as a bride to Etzel, their king, on the refusal of whose hand she
was transfixed by an arrow, and thereby set free from all earthly bonds; is very often represented
in art with arrows in her hands, and sometimes with a mantle and a group of small figures under
it, her martyred sisters.

URSULINES, an order of nuns founded in 1537 by St. Angela Merici of Brescia in honour of St.
Ursula, devoted to the nursing of the sick and the instruction of the young, and now established
in homes in different cities of both Europe and North America.

URUGUAY (730), the smallest State in South America and a republic, formerly called Banda Oriental;
lies between the Atlantic and the Uruguay River, and is bounded on the S. by the estuary of
the Plata; it covers an area of over 70,000 sq. m., and is little more than one-third the size
of France; the mineral wealth is abundant, but little has been done to exploit it; the cultivation
of the soil is only begun, and the land is mostly given over to pasture, cattle-rearing and
sheep-farming being the chief industries, and the chief products and exports being hides, wool,
preserved meats, and similar articles of commerce. The people are mostly natives of mixed race,
with some 30 per cent. of Europeans; primary education is compulsory; there are numerous schools,
and a university, and though the established religion is Roman Catholic, all others are tolerated.
Montevideo is the capital.

URUMIYA (32), a town in Persia, near a lake of the name, SW. of the Caspian Sea, the seat of
a Nestorian bishop and the birthplace of Zoroaster.

USEDOM (33), island belonging to Prussia, at the mouth of the Oder, with Schwinemünde on the N.

USHANT, island off the W. coast of France, in department of Finisterre, where Howe gained a
signal victory over the French in 1794.

USHER, JAMES, Irish episcopal prelate, born in Dublin of good parentage, educated at Trinity
College, Dublin; took orders and devoted years to the study of the Fathers of the Church; was
in 1607 appointed professor of Divinity in his Alma Mater, in 1620 bishop of Meath, and in
1621 archbishop of Armagh; in 1640 he went to England, and during the rebellion next year his
house was broken into and plundered, after which he settled in London and was eight years preacher
at Lincoln's Inn; adhered to the royal cause, but was favoured by Cromwell, and by him honoured
with burial in Westminster; he was a most saintly man, evangelical in his teaching, and wrote
a number of learned works (1581-1656).

UTAH (207), a territory on the western plateau of the United States, W. of Colorado, traversed
by the Wahsatch range, at the foot of which lies the Great Salt Lake, is in extent nearly three
times as large as Scotland, and occupied by a population four-fifths of which are Mormons,
a territory rich in mines of the precious and useful metals as well as coal; originally wholly
a desert waste, but now transformed where the soil has admitted of it, into a fruit-bearing
region. SALT LAKE CITY (q. v.) is the capital.

UTAKAMAND, the summer capital of the Presidency of Madras, India, on the Nilgherries, 7000
ft. above the sea-level, and where the temperature in summer is as low as 60°.

UTGARD (out-yard), in the Norse mythology a place or circle of rocks on the extreme borders
of the world, the abode of the giants, the same as Jötunheim.

UTICA, an ancient city of North Africa, founded by the Phoenicians on a site 20 m. NW. of Carthage;
was in alliance with Carthage during the first and second Punic Wars, but took part with the
Romans in the third, and became afterwards the capital of the Roman province.

UTICA (56), a city in New York State, U.S., 232 m. NW. of New York City; is on the Erie Canal,
in the heart of a dairy-farming district; has a noted market for cheese, and has various manufactures.
The great apostle of this theory was John Stuart Mill, and the great father of it Jeremy Bentham.

UTOPIA (Nowhere), an imaginary island described by Sir Thomas More, and represented as possessing
a perfect political organisation, and which has given name to all schemes which aim at the
like impossible perfection, though often applied to such as are not so much impossible in themselves
as impracticable for want of the due individual virtue and courage to realise them.

UTRAQUISTS (i. e. both kinders), followers of Huss who maintained that the Eucharist should
be administered to the people in both kinds, both bread and wine.

UTRECHT (60), an old town, the capital of a province of the name (224), in Holland, on the
Old Rhine, 23 m. SE. of Amsterdam; it is fortified by strong forts, and the old walls have
been levelled into beautiful promenades; has a number of fine buildings, a Gothic cathedral,
St. Martin's, a famous university with 700 students, and a library of 160,000 volumes, besides
a town-hall and the "Pope's house" (Pope Adrian VI., who was born here), &c.; manufactures
iron goods, textiles, machinery, &c., and trades in butter and cheese; here in 1713 the treaty
was signed which closed the Spanish Succession War. Is the name also of a S. province of the
Transvaal.

UTTOXETER, market-town of Staffordshire, 14 m. NE. of Stafford; has sundry manufactures and
brewing; here Dr. Johnson did public penance, with head uncovered, as a man, for want of filial
duty when, as a boy, he refused to keep his father's bookstall in the market-place when he was ill.

UXBRIDGE, town of Middlesex, 16 m. W. of London; has two fine churches, and a large corn-market.

UZBEGS, a race of Tartar descent and Mohammedan creed, dominant in Turkestan, the governing
class in Khiva, Bokhara, and Khokand especially; territory now annexed to Russia.

V

VAAL, a river of South Africa, which rises in the Drakenberg Mountains, separates the Free
State from the Transvaal, and after a course of 500 m. in a SW. direction joins the Nu Gariep
to form the Orange River.

VACCINATION. Inoculation with the matter of cowpox as a protection against smallpox, was introduced
1796-98 by EDWARD JENNER (q. v.), and at length adopted by the faculty after much opposition
on the part of both medical men and the public.

VAIGATZ, an island in the Arctic Ocean, 67 m. long by 26 m. broad, the "Holy Island" of the
SAMOYEDES (q. v.), an abode of furred animals, seals, &c.

VAISHNAVAS, in India, name given to the worshippers of Vishnu.

VAISYAS. See CASTE.

VALAIS, a Swiss canton, between Berne on the N. and Italy on the S., in a wide valley of the
Rhône, and shut in by lofty mountains; cattle-rearing is the chief industry.

VALDAI HILLS, a plateau rising to the height of 1100 ft. above the sea-level in Russia, forming
the only elevation in the Great European Plain.

VALENCIA (180), a city of Spain, once the capital of a kingdom, now of a fertile province of
the name; is situated on the shores of the Mediterranean, 3 m. from the mouth of the Guadalaviar,
in the midst of a district called the Huerta, which is watered by the river, and grows oranges,
citron, almond, mulberry-trees in richest luxuriance, the fruits of which it exports; is an
archbishop's see, and contains a large Gothic cathedral, a picture gallery, and a university
with a large library; has silk, cloth, leather, cigar, floor-tile manufactures, and exports
grain and silk besides fruits.

VALENCIA (40), a city of Venezuela, in a rich district, on a lake of the same name; large numbers
of cattle, horses, and mules are reared in the neighbourhood.

VALENCIENNES (24), an ancient fortified city in the dep. Nord, France, on the Scheldt, 32 m.
SE. of Lille, with a citadel planned by Vauban, a fine town-hall, and a modern Gothic church
and other buildings; has textile manufactures, besides iron-works, and was once famous for
its lace.

VALENS, FLAVIUS, Emperor of the East from 364 to 378; nominated by his brother Valentinian
I. emperor of the West; was harassed all his reign by the Goths, who had been allowed to settle
in the empire, and whom he drove into revolt, to the defeat of his army in 378, in a battle
in which he was himself slain; the controversy between the orthodox and the Arians was at its
height in this reign, and to the latter party both he and his victors belonged; b. 328.

VALENTIA, an island in co. Kerry, Ireland, is the European terminus of the Atlantic telegraph
system.

VALENTINE, BASIL, a German alchemist of the 15th century, is said to have been a Benedictine
monk at Erfurt, and is reckoned the father of analytical chemistry.

VALENTINE'S DAY, the 14th of February, on which young people of both sexes were wont (the custom
seems gradually dying out) to send love-missives to one another; it is uncertain who the Valentine
was that is associated with the day, or whether it was with any of the name.

VALENTINIAN I., Roman emperor from 364 to 375, born in Pannonia, of humble birth; distinguished
himself by his capacity and valour; was elected emperor by the troops at Nicæa; his reign was
spent in repelling the inroads of the barbarians.

VALENTINIANS, a Gnostic sect, called after their leader Valentine, a native of Egypt of the
2nd century, regarded heathenism as preparatory to Christianity, and Christ as the full and
final development in human form of a series of fifteen stages of emanation from the infinite
divine to the finite divine in Him "the fulness of Him that filleth all in all," each stage
in the process achieved by the union of a male element with a female, that is, a conceptive
and a susceptive.

VALERIANUS, LUCINIUS, Roman emperor from 253 to 260, elected by the legions in Rhætia; the
empire being assailed on all hands he set out to defend it on the E.; was defeated at Edessa,
taken prisoner, and cruelly treated; when he died his skin, it is said, was stuffed and paraded
as a trophy.

VALERIUS MAXIMUS, a Roman writer of the age of Tiberius, who compiled a collection of the sayings
and doings of notable Romans; it is of very miscellaneous character, and is written in a bombastic
style, and dedicated to the emperor.

VALETTA (62), a fortress city, the capital of Malta, on a promontory on the NE. coast of the
island, between two bays; the streets are steep, and the harbour is strongly fortified; it
contains several fine buildings, a cathedral, the palace of the Grand-Masters of the Knights
Templar, and the hospital of St. John; there is also a university and a large public library.

VALETTE, JEAN PARISOT DE LA, grand-master of the order of St. John, famous for his military
exploits and for his defence of Malta against the Turks in 1565 (1494-1565).

VALHALLA, Hall of Odin, the heaven of the brave in the Norse mythology, especially such as
gave evidence of their valour by dying in battle, the "base and slavish" being sent to the
realm of Hela, the Death-Goddess.

VALKYRS, in the Norse mythology daughters of Odin, who selected such as were worthy to be slain
in battle, and who conducted them to VALHALLA (q. v.).

VALLA, LAURENCE, a learned humanist, born in Rome, and a valiant defender of the claims of
scholarship; was a distinguished Latinist (1405-1457).

VALLADOLID (62), a famous city of Spain, the capital of old Castile, and now of a province
of the name, 150 m. N. of Madrid; is a fortress town; is the seat of an archbishop; has a university
and a number of churches; manufactures textile fabrics, iron, and leather.

VALLOMBROSA (shady valley), a Benedictine abbey 15 m. E. of Florence, in a valley of the Apennines,
surrounded by forests of beech, firs, &c.; is a classic spot.

VALMY, a village of France, 20 m. NE. of Châlons, where the Prussians, under the Duke of Brunswick,
were defeated by the troops of the French Republic under Kellermann in 1792.

VALOIS, an ancient duchy of France, which now forms part of the departments of Oise and Aisne,
a succession of the counts of which occupied the throne of France, beginning with Philippe
VI. in 1328 and ending with Henry III. in 1574.

VALPARAISO (Vale of Paradise) (150), the second city and chief port in Chile, over 100 m. NW.
of Santiago, at the head of a bay which looks N., and where the anchorage is dangerous; is
quite a commercial city; exports ores, nitre, wheat, hides, &c., the business affairs of which
are largely in the hands of foreigners, chiefly English, American, and Germans; it has been
on various occasions visited by severe earthquakes; was bombarded by a Spanish fleet in 1866
and suffered in the Civil War of 1891.

VAMBÉRY, ARMINIUS, traveller and philologist, born in Hungary, of poor Jewish parentage; apprenticed
to a costumier; took to the study of languages; expelled from Pesth as a revolutionary in 1848,
settled in Constantinople as a teacher, travelled as a dervish in Turkestan and elsewhere,
and wrote "Travels and Adventures in Central Asia," a most valuable and notable work; b. 1832.

VAMPIRE, the ghost of a dead person accursed, fabled to issue from the grave at night and suck
the blood of the living as they sleep, the victims of whom are subject to the same fate; the
belief is of Slavonic origin, and common among the Slavs.

VAN (35), a town in the Kurdistan Highlands, on the SE. shore of Lake Van, and 145 m. SE. of
Erzerum; inhabited by Turks and Armenians.

VAN BUREN, MARTIN, the eighth President of the United States, born in New York; devoted from
early years to politics, and early made his mark; elected President in 1835, an office which
he adorned with honour, though to the sacrifice of his popularity (1782-1862).

VAN DIEMEN'S LAND. See TASMANIA.

VANADIUM, a metallic silver-white elementary body of rare occurrence, and occurring in very
small quantities; discovered first in 1801 by Del Rio.

VANBRUGH, SIR JOHN, dramatist, of uncertain birth; his dramas adaptations from the French of
Molière and others; had been a soldier; was Clarencieux King-at-Arms, and is noted as an architect;
d. 1726.

VANCOUVER ISLAND (30), a rugged-coasted island on the W. of North America; belongs to British
Columbia; is separated from it by a strait of the sea; is 278 m. long and 50 to 65 m. of average
breadth; is covered with forests, and only partially cultivated; is rich in minerals, and has
extensive fisheries.

VANDALS, a fierce nation of the Teutonic race, who, from the NE. of Europe, invaded Rome on
the E., mutilating and destroying the works of art in the city.

VANDERBILT, CORNELIUS, American millionaire, born on Staten Island; began life as a ferryman,
acquired his fortune by enterprise in steamship navigation, and speculating in railway extensions
(1794-1877).

VANDEVELDT, WILLIAM, the Elder, marine painter, born at Leyden; painted sea-fights; was patronised
by Charles II. and James II. (1611-1693).

VANDEVELDT, WILLIAM, the Younger, marine painter, son of preceding; patronised likewise by
Charles II. (1633-1707).

VANDYCK, SIR ANTHONY, great portrait-painter, born in Antwerp; studied under Rubens, whose
favourite pupil he was; visited Italy, and devoted himself to the study of the great masters;
on his return to Antwerp painted "Christ Crucified between Two Thieves"; came to England in
1632, and was patronised by Charles I.; was knighted, and made court painter; painted the royal
family, the king, queen, and their two children, and during the next eight years executed portraits
of all the court people; his portraits are very numerous, and the most celebrated are in England;
died at Blackfriars, and was buried in St. Paul's (1599-1641).

VANE, SIR HENRY, a notability of the Civil War period in England; was a Puritan of the republican
type, born in Kent; studied at Oxford; emigrated for a time to New England, but returned, entered
Parliament, took an active part against the Royalists, withstood Cromwell, and was openly rebuked
by him; his opposition to the Protectorate led to his imprisonment for a time; at the Restoration
he was arrested and beheaded on Tower Hill (1612-1662).

VAR (288), a department in the SE. of France; is in part mountainous, with fertile valleys;
yields wine, tobacco, and various fruits.

VARENNES, a small town near Verdun, in France, where in 1791 Louis XVI. was intercepted in
his attempt to escape from France.

VARNA (25), a port of Bulgaria, on a bay in the Black Sea; a place of considerable trade, specially
in exporting corn; here the French and English allied forces encamped for four months in 1854
prior to their invasion of the Crimea.

VARNHAGEN, VON ENSE, German memoir writer, and excellent in that department; a man of many
vicissitudes; memorable chiefly as the editor of his wife's letters. See RAHEL.

VARRO, MARCUS TERENTIUS, "the most learned of the Romans," wrote a number of works both in
prose and verse, of which only fragments remain, but enough to prove the greatness of the loss;
was the friend of Pompey, then Cæsar, then Cicero, but survived the strife of the time and
spent his leisure afterwards in literary labours (116-27 B.C.).

VARUNA, in the Hindu mythology the god of the luminous heavens, viewed as embracing all things
and as the primary source of all life and every blessing. "In connection with no other god,"
says M. Barth, "is the sense of the divine majesty and of the absolute dependence of the creature
expressed with the same force. We must go to the Psalms to find similar accents of adoration
and supplication." He was the prototype of the Greek Uranus, the primeval father of gods and men.

VARUS, PUBLIUS QUINTILIUS, Roman consul, appointed by Augustus governor of Germany; being attacked
by Arminius and overpowered with loss of three Roman legions under his command, he committed
suicide; when the news of the disaster reached Rome Augustus was overwhelmed with grief, and
in a paroxysm of despair called upon the dead man to restore him his legions.

VASARI, GIORGIO, Italian painter and architect, born in Arezzo; was the author of biographies
of Italian artists, and it is on these, with the criticism they contain, that his title to
fame rests (1511-1574).

VASSAR COLLEGE, a college 2 m. E. of Poughkeepsie, New York, founded by Matthew Vassar, a wealthy
brewer, in 1861 for the higher education of women.

VATHEC, an Oriental potentate and libertine, guilty of all sorts of crimes, and hero of a novel
of the name by WILLIAM BECKFORD (q. v.).

VATICAN, THE, the palace of the Pope in Rome and one of the largest in the world; contains
a valuable collection of works of art, and is one of the chief attractions in the city; it
is a storehouse of literary treasures as well and documents of interest bearing on the history
of the Middle Ages.

VATICAN COUNCIL, a Church council attended by 764 ecclesiastics under the auspices of Pius
IX., which assembled on December 8, 1869, and by a majority of nearly 481 decreed the doctrine
of Papal Infallibility.

VAUBAN, SEBASTIEN LE PRESTRE DE, marshal of France in the reign of Louis XIV.; military engineering
was his great forte, and as such he "conducted 53 sieges, was present at 104 battles, erected
33 fortresses, and restored the works of 300 old ones"; he was originally in the service of
Spain, and was enlisted in the French service by Cardinal Mazarin; he was a political economist
as well as engineer, but his animadversions only procured for him the royal disfavour (1633-1707).

VAUCLUSE (valley shut in) (235), department in the SE. of France; chief industries agriculture,
silk-weaving, pottery, &c., and with a village of the name, 19 m. E. of Avignon, famous for
its fountain and as the retreat of Petrarch for 16 years.

VAUD (247), a canton in the W. of Switzerland, between Jura and the Bernese Alps; is well cultivated,
yields wines, and its inhabitants Protestants; the capital is Lausanne.

VAUDEVILLE, a light, lively song with topical allusions; also a dramatic poem interspersed
with comic songs of the kind and dances.

VAUDOIS, the name given to Waldenses who, driven forth from France or Vaud, found refuge and
settled down in the mountain fastnesses of Piedmont.

VAUGHAN, CHARLES JOHN, English clergyman, born at Leicester; was a pupil of Dr. Arnold's at
Rugby; for many years famous as Master of the Temple, a post he resigned in 1894; held in high
esteem as a preacher and for his fine spirit (1816-1897).

VAUGHAN, HENRY, English poet, self-styled the "Silurist" from the seat of his family in South
Wales; studied at Oxford, was a partisan of the royal cause; wrote four volumes of poems in
the vein of George Herbert, but was much more mystical and had deeper thoughts, could he have
expressed them; of his poems the first place has been assigned to "Silex Scintillans," the
theme the flinty heart when smelted giving out sparks. "At times," adds Prof. Saintsbury, "there
is in him genuine blood and fire; but it is not always, or even often, that the flint is kindled
and melted to achieved expression" (1622-1695).

VAUGHAN, HERBERT, CARDINAL, archbishop of Westminster, born at Gloucester, son of Lieut.-Colonel
Vaughan; educated at Stonyhurst and abroad; succeeded Cardinal Manning as archbishop in 1872,
having previously been bishop of Salford; b. 1832.

VAUVENARGUES, MARQUIS DE, celebrated French essayist, born at Aix, Provence, poor, but of an
old and honourable family; entered the army at 18, served in the Austrian Succession War, resigned
his commission in 1744, settled in Paris and took to literature; his principal work was "Introduction
à la Connaissance de l'Esprit Humain," followed by reflections and maxims on points of ethics
and criticism; he suffered from bad health, and his life was a short one (1715-1747).

VEDANGA, one of the six commentaries on the Vedas.

VEDÂNTA, a system of Hindu speculation in interpretation of the Vedas, founded on the pre-supposition
of the identity of the spiritual working at the heart of things and the spiritual working in
the heart of man.

VEDAS, the sacred books of the Hindus, of sacerdotal origin and ancient date, of which there
are four collections, severally denominated the Rig-Veda, the Atharva-Veda, the Sama-Veda,
the Yajur-Veda, to each of which are attached Brahmanas in elucidation.

VEDDAS, the aborigines of Ceylon, of whom some 2000, still in a wild state, are extant between
Kandy and the E. coast.

VEGA, LOPEZ DE LA, known as Lope, Spanish dramatist, born in Madrid; began life as a soldier;
served in the Armada; was secretary to the Duke of Alva; took orders, and became an officer
of the Inquisition; wrote a heroic pastoral entitled "Arcadia" at the instance of the duke,
and the "Dragonica" over the death of Drake as the destroyer of the supremacy of Spain on the
sea; was a man of fertile inventiveness, and is said to have written 2000 plays, besides no
end of verses, and was called by Cervantes a "Prodigy of Nature" (1562-1635).

VEHMGERICHTE or FEHMGERICHT, a tribunal in Germany during the Middle Ages, of which there were
several, all powerful, in connection with a secret organisation under sanction of the emperor
for the enforcement of justice and punishment of crime at a period when the States severally
were too weak to uphold it. These courts were held in secret places at night, and inspired
great terror in the 13th and 14th centuries.

VEII, an ancient city of Etruria, and in early times a formidable rival of Rome, from which
it was only 12 m. distant. The Romans under Camillus laid siege to it, and it baffled them
for 10 years.

VEIT, PHILIPP, painter of the Romanticist school, born at Berlin; his best-known work is a
fresco, "Christianity bringing the Fine Arts to Germany."

VELASQUEZ, DIEGO DE SILVA, greatest of Spanish painters, born at Seville, of Portuguese family;
studied under FRANCISCO HERRERA (q. v.), who taught him to teach himself, so that but for the
hint he was a self-taught artist, and simply painted what he saw and as he saw it; portrait-painting
was his forte, one of his earliest being a portrait of Olivarez, succeeded by one of Philip
IV. of Spain, considered the most perfect extant, and by others of members of the royal family;
specimens of his work are found in different countries, but the best are in Spain, in Madrid,
and they include sacred subjects, genre, landscape, and animal paintings, as well as portraits
(1599-1660).

VENDÉE, LA (442), a dep. of France, on the Bay of Biscay, S. of Loire-Inférieure; marshy on
the W., wooded on the N., and with an open fertile tract in the middle and S.; it is famous
as the seat of a stubborn resistance to the Revolution, and for the bloody violence with which
it was suppressed.

VENDÉMIAIRE (vintage month), the first month of the French Revolution year, from 22nd September
to 21st October.

VENDETTA, the practice which existed in Corsica and Sicily on the part of individuals of exacting
vengeance for the murder of a relative on the murderer or one of his relations.

VENDÔME, LOUISE JOSEPH, DUC DE, French general, born at Paris, great-grandson of Henry IV.;
served in the wars of Louis XIV., and gained several victories; was defeated by Marlborough
and Prince Eugene at Oudenarde in 1708, but by his victory at Villaviciosa contributed to the
restoration of Philip V. to the Spanish throne in 1711; was a man of gross sensuality, and
has been pilloried by Saint Simon for the execration of all mankind (1654-1712).

VENEZUELA (2,323), a federal republic in South America, founded in 1830, over three times as
large as Spain, consisting of nine States and several territories; composed of mountain and
valley, and in great part of llanos, within the basin of the Orinoco; between the Caribbean
Sea, Colombo, Brazil, and British Guiana, and containing a population of Indian, Spanish, and
Negro descent; on the llanos large herds of horses and cattle are reared; the agricultural
products are sugar, coffee, cotton, tobacco, &c.; the forests yield mahogany, ebony, and dye-wood,
while the mines yield iron, copper, &c., and there are extensive gold-fields, considered the
richest in the world; the boundary line between the British colony and Venezuela was for long
matter of keen dispute, but by the intervention of the United States at the request of the
latter a treaty between the contending parties was concluded, referring the matter to a court
of arbitration, which met at Paris in 1895, and settled it in 1899, in vindication, happily,
of the British claim, the Schomburgk line being now declared to be the true line, and the gold-fields
ours.

VENGEUR, LE, a war-vessel of the French fabled to have gone down rather than surrender to the
English in a battle off Ushant on 1st June 1794, the crew shouting "Vive la République," when
it was really a cry for help.

VENICE, a city of Italy, in a province of the same name, at the head of the Adriatic, in a
shallow lagoon dotted with some eighty islets, and built on piles partly of wood and partly
of stone, the streets of which are canals traversed by gondolas and crossed here and there
by bridges; the city dates from the year 432, when the islands were a place of refuge from
the attacks of the Huns, and took shape as an independent State with magistrates of its own
about 687, to assume at length the form of a republic and become "Queen of the Adriatic Sea,"
the doge, or chief magistrate, ranking as one of the sovereign powers of the Western world;
from its situation it became in the 10th century a great centre of trade with the East, and
continued to be till the discovery of the route round the Cape, after which it began to decline,
till it fell eventually under the yoke of Austria, from which it was wrested in 1866, and is
now part of the modern kingdom of Italy, with much still to show of what it was in its palmy
days, and indications of a measure of recovery from its down-trodden state; for an interesting
and significant sketch in brief of its rise and fall see the "SHADOW ON THE DIAL" in Ruskin's
"St. Mark's Rest."

VENTNOR, a town and favourite watering-place on the S. shore of the Isle of Wight, with a fine
beach; much resorted to in winter from its warm Southern exposure.

VENUS, the Roman goddess of love, of wedded love, and of beauty (originally of the spring),
and at length identified with the Greek APHRODITÉ (q. v.); she was regarded as the tutelary
goddess of Rome, and had a temple to her honour in the Forum.

VENUS, an interior planet of the solar system, revolving in an orbit outside that of Mercury
and within that of the earth, nearly as large as the latter; is 67 millions of miles from the
sun, round which it revolves in 224 days, while it takes 23¼ hours to rotate on its own axis;
it is the brightest of the heavenly bodies, and appears in the sky now as the morning star,
now as the evening star, according as it rises before the sun or sets after it, so that it
is always seen either in the E. or the W.; when right between us and the sun it is seen moving
as a black spot on the sun's disk, a phenomenon known as "Transit of Venus," the last instance
of which occurred in 1882, and that will not occur again till after 105½ years.

VERA CRUZ (24), a chief seaport of Mexico, on the Gulf of Mexico, 263 m. SE. of the capital;
is regularly built and strongly fortified, but is unhealthily situated, and the yellow and
other fevers prevail; trade is chiefly in the hands of foreigners; exports ores, cochineal,
indigo, dye-woods, &c.

VERDI, GIUSEPPE, Italian composer, born at Roncole, Parma; his musical talent was slow of recognition,
but the appearance of his "Lombardi" and "Ernani" in 1843-44 established his repute, which
was confirmed by "Rigoletto" in 1851 and "Il Trovatore" and "La Traviata" in 1853; b. 1813.

VERDUN (18), a strongly fortified town in the department of Meuse, 35 m. W. of Metz; capitulated
to the Germans in 1870 after a siege of six weeks.

VERESTCHAGIN, Russian painter, is realistic to an extreme degree and anti-conventional; b. 1842.

VERGIL, POLYDORE, historian and miscellaneous writer, born at Urbino; was a friend and correspondent
of Erasmus; was sent to England by the Pope as deputy-collector of Peter's pence, and was there
promoted to ecclesiastical preferments; wrote in Latin an able and painstaking history of England,
bringing it down to the year 1538 (1470-1555).

VERIGNIAUD, an eloquent orator of the French Revolution; a man of indolent temper, but by his
eloquence became leader of the Girondins; presided at the trial of the king, and pronounced
the decision of the court--sentence of death, presided as well "at the Last Supper of his party,
with wild coruscations of eloquence, with song and mirth," and was guillotined next day, the
last of the lot (1753-1793).

VERLAINE, PAUL, French poet, born in Metz; has written lyrics of a quite unique type (1844-1896).

VERMONT (green mount) (332), an inland New England State, W. of New Hampshire and a little
larger in size, includes large tracts of both pastoral and arable land; rears live-stock in
great numbers, yields cereals, and produces the best maple sugar in the States, and has large
quarries of granite, marble, and slate.

VERNE, JULES, French story-teller, born at Nantes, inventor and author of a popular series
of semi-scientific novels; b. 1828.

VERNET, CLAUDE, French marine-painter, born at Avignon; executed more than 200 paintings, both
landscape and sea pieces (1712-1789). CARLO, son of preceding, painter of battle-pieces, born
at Bordeaux (1768-1833). HORACE, son of latter, born in Paris, distinguished also for his battle-pieces
in flattery of French Chauvinism (1789-1863).

VERNON, DI, the heroine in Sir Walter Scott's "Rob Roy," an enthusiastic royalist, distinguished
for her beauty and talents.

VERONA (72), an old Italian town on the Adige, in Venetia, 62 m. W. of Venice; is a fortress
city and one of the famous Quadrilateral; has many interesting buildings and some Roman remains,
in particular of an amphitheatre; has manufactures of silk, velvet, and woollen fabrics, and
carries on a large local trade.

VERONESE, PAOLO, painter of the Venetian school, born at Verona, whence his name; studied under
an uncle, painted his "Temptation of St. Anthony" for Mantua Cathedral, and settled in Venice
in 1555, where he soon earned distinction and formed one of a trio along with Titian and Tintoretto;
the subjects he treated were mostly scriptural, the most celebrated being the "Marriage Feast
at Cana of Galilee," now in the Louvre (1528-1588).

VERONICA, ST., according to legend a woman who met Christ on His way to crucifixion and offered
Him her veil to wipe the sweat off His face. See SUDARIUM.

VERSAILLES (51), a handsome city of France, capital of the department of Seine-et-Oise, 11
m. by rail SW. of Paris, of which it is virtually a suburb, and was during the monarchy, from
Louis XIV.'s time, the seat of the French court; has a magnificent palace, with a gallery embracing
a large collection of pictures; was occupied by the Germans during the siege of Paris, and
in one of its halls the Prussian king was proclaimed emperor of Germany as William I.

VERTUMNUS in Roman mythology the god of the seasons, wooed Pomona under a succession of disguises,
and won her at last.

VESPASIAN, TITUS FLAVIUS VESPASIANUS, Roman emperor (from 70 to 79) and tenth of the 12 Cæsars,
born in the Sabine territory of humble parentage; rose by his valour to high rank in the army
and in favour with it, till at length he was elected by it to the throne; he had waged war
successfully in Germany, Britain, and at Jerusalem, and during his reign, and nearly all through
it, the temple of Janus was shut at Rome.

VESPUCCI, AMERIGO, navigator, born at Florence; made two voyages to America in 1499 and in
1501, and from him the two continents derived their name, owing, it is said, to his first visit
being misdated in an account he left, which made it appear that he had preceded Columbus (1451-1512).

VESTA, the Roman goddess of the hearth, identified with the Greek Hestia; was the guardian
of domestic life and had a shrine in every household; had a temple in Rome in which a heaven-kindled
fire was kept constantly burning and guarded by first four then six virgins called Vestals,
whose persons were held sacred as well as their office, since any laxity in its discharge might
be disastrous to the city.

VESTAL VIRGINS. See VESTA.

VESUVIUS, a flattened conical mountain, 4161 ft. in height, and an active volcano on the Bay
of Naples, 10 m. SE. of the city; it was by eruption of it that the two cities of Herculaneum
and Pompeii were overwhelmed in 79 A.D.; its crater is half a mile in diameter, and has a depth
of 350 ft.; there are some 60 eruptions on record, the latest being in 1891.

VETURIA, a Roman matron, the mother of Coriolanus.

VIA DOLOROSA, way leading from the Mount of Olives to Golgotha, which Christ traversed from
the Agony in the Garden to the Cross.

VIATICUM, name given to the Eucharist administered by a priest to a person on the point of death.

VICAR OF BRAY. See BRAY.

VICAR OF CHRIST, title assumed by the Pope, who claims to be the Vicegerent of Christ on earth.

VICENZA (27), a town in the NE. of Italy, in a province of the name, bordering on the Tyrol,
42 m. W. of Venice; has fine palaces designed by Palladio, a native of the place; manufactures
woollen and silk fabrics, and wooden wares; was a place of some importance under the Lombards.

VICHY, a fashionable watering-place in Central France, on the Allier, at the foot of the volcanic
mountains of Auvergne; has hot alkaline springs, much resorted to for their medicinal virtues.

VICKSBURG (13), largest city on the Mississippi, on a bluff above the river, fortified by the
Confederates in the Civil War; after a siege of over a year surrendered to General Grant, 4th
July 1864, with 30,000 men.

VICO, GIOVANNI BATTISTA, Italian philosopher, born at Naples, where he was for 40 years professor
of rhetoric; his great work "Scienza Nuova," by which he became the father of the philosophy
of history, which he resolved Calvinistically into a spiritual development of the purpose of
God (1668-1744).

VICTOR, CLAUDE PERRIN, marshal of France, served with distinction all through the wars of Napoleon,
and held command, not to his honour, under the Bourbons after his fall (1764-1841).

VICTOR, ST., the name of two martyrs, one of Marseilles and one of Milan, distinguished for
their zeal in overthrowing pagan altars.

VICTOR EMMANUEL II., king of Sardinia, and afterwards of united Italy, born in Turin, eldest
son of Charles Albert; became king in 1849 on the abdication of his father; distinguished himself
in the war against Austria, adding Austrian Lombardy and Tuscany to his dominions, and by the
help of Garibaldi, Naples and Sicily, till in 1861 he was proclaimed King of Italy, and in
1870 he entered Rome as his capital city (1820-1878).

VICTORIA (1,140), a colony of Great Britain, the smallest and most populous in Australia, lying
S. of New South Wales, from which it was separated in 1851; originally settled as Port Phillip
in 1834, it developed gradually as a pastoral and agricultural region till, in 1851, the discovery
of gold led to an enormous increase in both the population and the revenue, and the sudden
rise of a community, with Melbourne for centre, which, for wealth and enterprise, eclipsed
every other in the southern hemisphere of the globe; the wealth thus introduced led to a further
development of its resources, and every industry began to flourish to a proportionate extent;
the chief exports are wool, gold, live-stock, bread-stuffs, hides and leather, and the imports
are no less manifold; the climate is remarkably healthy, and ice and snow are hardly known;
there is no State religion; 75 per cent. of the people are Protestants, 22 per cent. Catholics,
and ½ per cent. Jews, and every provision is made for education in the shape of universities,
State schools, technical schools and private schools, and the legislative authority is vested
in a Parliament of two chambers, a Legislative Council of 48, and a Legislative Assembly of 95.

VICTORIA, ALEXANDRINA, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and Empress
of India, born at Kensington Palace, the only child of the Duke of Kent, fourth son of George
III., who died in 1820, leaving her an infant eight months old; educated under the eye of her
mother with special regard to her prospective destiny as Queen; proclaimed, on the death of
William IV., on 20th June 1837; crowned at Westminster 28th June 1838; married Prince Albert
10th February 1840; in 1877 added "Empress of India" to her titles; during 1861 became a widow
through the death of Prince Albert. Her reign was long and prosperous; 1887 being celebrated
as her "Jubilee" year, and 1897 as her "Diamond Jubilee"; was the mother of four sons and five
daughters; had grandchildren and great-grandchildren, William II., Emperor of Germany, being
a grandchild, and Nicholas II., Czar of Russia, being married to another; b. 1819; died at
Osborne, Isle of Wight, Jan. 22, 1901.

VICTORIA CROSS, a naval and military decoration in the shape of a Maltese cross, instituted
by Queen Victoria in 1856 for conspicuous bravery in the presence of an enemy.

VICTORIA NYANZA, a lake in East Central Africa, on the Equator, is about the size of Ireland,
300 m. long and 20 m. broad, at an elevation of 3500 ft. above the sea-level; discovered by
Captain Speke in 1858, and circumnavigated by Stanley in 1875; is regarded as the head-source
of the Nile, the waters of it flowing through Albert Nyanza 80 m. to the N., between which
two lakes lies the territory of Uganda.

VIDAR, in the Scandinavian mythology the god of wisdom and silence, whose look penetrates the
inmost thoughts of men.

VIENNA (1,364), the capital of the Austrian empire, on a southern branch of the Danube, in
a situation calculated to make it the central city of the Continent; it is the residence of
the emperor and the seat of the government; has noble buildings, a university, and numerous
large libraries, a large promenade called the Prater, and a varied industry, and ample means
of both external and internal communication; in the SW. of it is Schönbrunn, the summer residence
of the emperor, amid gardens of matchless beauty; it has been the scene of the signing of important
treaties, and it was here the Congress met to undo the work of Napoleon in 1815.

VIENNE (22), an ancient town of France, on the Rhône, 19 m. S. of Lyons; was the chief town
of the Allobroges in Cæsar's time, and possesses relics of its connection with Rome; it manufactures
silk and woollen fabrics, paper and iron goods, and has a trade in grain and wine.

VIGFUSSON, GUDBRAND, Scandinavian scholar, born in Iceland, of good family; well familiar with
the folk-lore of his country from boyhood, and otherwise educated at home, he entered Copenhagen
University in 1850, occupying himself with the study of his native literature, and of every
document he could lay his hands on, and out of which he hoped to obtain any light; in 1855
he published a work on the chronology of the sagas, and this was followed by editions of the
sagas themselves; after this he came to Oxford, where he produced an Icelandic-English Dictionary
and other works in the same interest, and died and was buried there (1827-1889).

VIGNY, ALFRED, COMTE DE, French poet of the Romanticist school, born at Loches; entered the
army, but left after a few years for a life of literary ease; produced a small volume of exquisitely
finished poems between 1821 and 1829, and only another "Poèmes Philosophiques," which were
not published till after his death; wrote also romances and dramas, and translated into French
"Othello" and "Merchant of Venice" (1798-1864).

VIGO (15), a seaport in Galicia, NW. of Spain, on a bay of the name; beautifully situated,
and a favourite health resort.

VIKINGS (creekers), name given to the Scandinavian sea-rovers and pirates who from the 8th
to the 10th centuries ravaged the shores chiefly of Western Europe.

VILLARI, Italian author, born at Naples; professor of History at Florence; has written the
Lives of Savonarola and Macchiavelli; b. 1827.

VILLARS, DUC DE, marshal of France, born at Moulins; one of the most illustrious of Louis XIV.'s
generals, and distinguished in diplomacy as well as war; served in Germany under Turenne, and
in the war of the Spanish Succession; suppressed the Camisards in the Cévennes, but was defeated
by Marlborough at Malplaquet (1653-1734).

VILLENAGE, in feudal times the condition of a "villein," one of the lowest class in a state
of menial servitude.

VILLENEUVE, SILVESTRE, French admiral, born at Vilensoles, Basses-Alpes; entered the navy at
15, became captain at 30; commanded the rear at the battle of the Nile; was placed in command
at Toulon, steered his fleet to the West Indies to draw Nelson off the shores of France, but
was chased back by Nelson and blockaded in Cadiz to the defeat of Napoleon's scheme for invading
England, but felt constrained to risk a battle with the English admiral, which he did to his
ruin at Trafalgar (1763-1806).

VILLEROI, DUC DE, marshal of France; was a courtier but no soldier, being defeated in Italy
by Prince Eugene and at Ramillies by Marlborough; was guardian to Louis XV. (1644-1730).

VILLIERS, CHARLES PELHAM, reformer, brother of the Earl of Clarendon; bred to the bar; entered
Parliament; M.P. for Wolverhampton, which he represented to the end; was an advocate from the
first, and one of the sturdiest, for free trade and poor-law reform, and had a marble statue
raised in his honour at Wolverhampton before his death (1802-1898).

VILLON, FRANÇOIS, French poet, born in Paris; studied at the university, but led a singular
life; had again and again to flee from Paris; was once condemned to death, but set free after
a four years' imprisonment into which the sentence was commuted; is the author of two poems,
entitled the "Petit Testament" and the "Grand Testament," with minor pieces bearing on the
swindling tricks of Villon, the name he assumed, and his companions (1431-1485).

VINCENNES (24), an eastern suburb of Paris, in the famous Bois de Vincennes, which contains
a large artillery park and training place for troops; it is a favourite resort for Parisians
of the middle class.

VINCENT, ST., a Spanish martyr who in 304 was tortured to death; is represented with the instruments
of his torture, a spiked gridiron for one, and a raven beside him such as drove away the beasts
and birds of prey from his dead body.

VINCENT DE PAUL, ST., a Romish priest, born in Gascony, of humble parents; renowned for his
charity; he founded the congregation of the Sisters of Charity, and that of the Priests of
the Missions, afterwards called Lazarites, from the priory of St. Lazare, where they first
established themselves, and instituted the Foundling Hospital in Paris; he was canonised by
Pope Clement XII. in 1737 (1576-1660).

VINDHYA MOUNTAINS, a range of hills, 500 m. in length, forming the N. scarp of the plateau
of the Deccan in India, the highest peak of which does not exceed 6000 ft.

VINEGAR BIBLE, an edition of the Bible printed at Oxford, in which the page containing the
"Parable of the Vineyard" in Luke xx. was headed "Parable of the Vinegar."

VINEGAR HILL, a hill (385 ft.) near Enniscorthy, co. Wexford, Ireland, where General Lake defeated
the Irish rebels on June 21, 1798, to the utter annihilation then and after of almost every
man of them.

VINET, ALEXANDRE RODOLPHE, a Protestant theologian, born near Lausanne, where he studied and
ultimately became professor of Practical Theology; was a zealous defender of the liberty of
conscience and of the freedom of the Church from State connection and control; he was a littérateur
as well as an able and eloquent divine (1797-1847).

VIOTTI, GIOVANNI BATTISTA, celebrated violinist, born in Piedmont (1753-1824).

VIRCHOW, RUDOLF, eminent pathologist, born in Pomerania; is distinguished as a politician as
well as a man of science, and is in the former regard a strenuous Liberal; his services not
only in the interests of medicine but of science generally and its social applications have
been very great; b. 1821.

VIRGIL, great Latin poet, born near Mantua, author in succession of the "Eclogues," the "Georgics,"
and the "Æneid"; studied at Cremona and Milan, and at 16 was sent to Rome to study rhetoric
and philosophy, lost a property he had in Cremona during the civil war, but recommended himself
to Pollio, the governor, who introduced him to Augustus, and he went to settle in Rome; here,
in 37 B.C., he published his "Eclogues," a collection of 10 pastorals, and gained the patronage
of Mæcenas, under whose favour he was able to retire to a villa at Naples, where in seven years
he, in 30 B.C., produced the "Georgics," in four books, on the art of husbandry, after which
he devoted himself to his great work the "Æneid," or the story of Æneas of Troy, an epic in
12 books, connecting the hero with the foundation of Rome, and especially with the Julian family,
and which was finished in 19 B.C.; on his deathbed he expressed a wish that it should be burned,
and left instructions to that effect in his will; he was one of the purest-minded poets perhaps
that ever lived (70-19 B.C.).

VIRGIN ISLANDS (45), a group of islands in the West Indies, few of them of any size, belonging
partly to Denmark, Britain, and Spain.

VIRGIN QUEEN, appellation popularly given to Queen Elizabeth.

VIRGINIA (1,655), one of the United States of America, a State somewhat larger than Scotland,
between Maryland and North Carolina, so named by its founder Sir Walter Raleigh in honour of
Queen Elizabeth; is divided from West Virginia by the Appalachians; it is well watered; the
soil, which is fertile, yields the finest cotton and tobacco, and minerals, particularly coal
and iron, are abundant; the largest city is Richmond, with flour-mills.

VIRGINIA, WEST (762), formed originally one State with the preceding, but separated in 1861
to join the Federal cause; is nearly the same in size and resources; is a great mining region,
and is rich in coal and iron; its largest city is Wheeling, on the Ohio.

VISHNU, the Preserver, the second god of the Hindu triad, BRAHMA (q. v.) being the first and
SIVA (q. v.) the third; revealed himself by a succession of avatars, RÂMA (q. v.) being the
seventh and KRISHNA (q. v.) the eighth; he has had nine avatars, and on the tenth he will come
to judgment; he is extensively worshipped, and his worshippers, the Vaishnavas, are divided
into a great number of sects.

VISIGOTHS, a branch of the Goths that settled in the South of France and in Spain.

VISTULA, a central river of Europe, which rises in the Carpathians and after a course of 600
m. falls into the Baltic; it is almost navigable throughout, and carries down great quantities
of timber, grain, and other produce to the Baltic ports.

VITALIS, ST., a martyr of the 1st century, who was stoned to death, is represented as buried
in a pit with stones on his head.

VITELLIUS, AULUS, Roman emperor; reigned only eight months and some days of the year 69; was
notorious for his excesses, and was murdered after being dragged through the streets of Rome.

VITRUVIUS, POLLIO, Roman architect and engineer; wrote on architecture, lived in the days of
Augustus.

VITTORIA (127), the capital of Alava, a Basque province in the North of Spain, famous as the
scene of one of Wellington's victories in June 1813; has a fine old 12th-century cathedral
and extensive manufactures; it is one of the most prosperous towns in Spain.

VIVIAN, an enchantress in Arthurian legend. See MERLIN.

VLADIMIR (12), capital of a government in the centre of Russia, 120 m. NE. of Moscow; once
practically the capital of the country, with many remains of its ancient grandeur.

VLADIMIR I. THE GREAT OR ST., grand-duke of Russia; converted to Christianity through his wife
Anna Romanovna, laid the foundation of the Russian empire; has been canonised by the Russian
Church; d. 1015.

VLADIMIR II., surnamed Monomachus; succeeded to the throne of Russia in 1113, and consolidated
it by the establishment and enforcement of just laws; was married to Gida, a daughter of King
Harold of England (1063-1126).

VOGLER, ABBÉ, composer, born in Würzburg; distinguished once both as a musical performer and
teacher; lives only in Browning's "Dramatis Personæ" (1749-1814).

VOGT, CARL, German naturalist, born at Giessen; a materialist and disciple of Darwin; has written
on geology and anthropology; b. 1817.

VOGULS, a Finnish tribe on the E. slope of the Urals; are Christianised, but still practise
many Shamanist rites; number some 20,000.

VOLAPÜK, a universal language by Schleyer, a German pastor; as yet practically limited to its
applicability to commercial intercourse.

VOLGA, a river of European Russia, the largest in Europe, which rises in the Valdai Hills,
and after a course of 2200 m. falls by a delta with 200 mouths into the Caspian Sea; it is
navigable almost throughout, providing Russia with 7200 m. of water-carriage, and has extensive
fisheries, especially of salmon and sturgeon.

VOLNEY, French philosopher, born at Craon; travelled in Egypt and Syria; wrote an account of
his travels in his "Voyage"; was imprisoned during the Reign of Terror; patronised and promoted
to honour by Napoleon, and by the Bourbons on their return; his principal work, "LES RUINES,
OU MÉDITATIONS SUR LES RÉVOLUTIONS DES EMPIRES," was an embodiment of 18th-century enlightenment
(q. v.) (1757-1820).

VOLSUNGS, a race figuring in Norse and German legend of the 12th century, and with the fate
in whose history it is so widely occupied, and that of its heroes.

VOLTA, ALESSANDRINO, Italian physicist, born at Como; professor of Physics at Pavia; made electrical
discoveries which laid the foundation of what is called after him voltaic electricity; volt,
the unit of electric motive force, being a term among sundry others in electric science similarly
derived (1745-1827).

VOLTAIC ELECTRICITY, a current of electricity generated by chemical action between metals and
different liquids as arranged in a voltaic battery.

VOLTAIRE, FRANÇOIS MARIE AROUET DE, great French "persifleur" and "Coryphæus of Deism," born
in Paris, son of a lawyer; trained to scoff at religion from his boyhood, and began his literary
career as a satirist and in the production of lampoons which cost him twice over imprisonment
in the Bastille, on his release from which he left France in 1726 and went to England, where
he stayed three years, and got acquainted with the free-thinking class there; on his return
to Paris he engaged in some profitable commercial speculations and published his "Charles XII.,"
which he had written in England, and retired to the château of Cirey, where he lived five years
with Madame du Châtelet, engaged in study and diligent with his pen, with whom he left France
and went to Poland, after her death paying his famous visit to Frederick the Great, with whom
before three years were out he quarrelled, and from whom he was glad to escape, making his
head-quarters eventually within the borders of France at Ferney, from which he now and again
visited Paris, where on his last visit he was received with such raptures of adulation that
he was quite overcome, and had to be conveyed home to die, giving up the ghost exactly two
months after. He was a man of superlative adroitness of faculty and shiftiness, without aught
that can be called great, but more than any other the incarnation of the spirit of his time;
said the word which all were waiting to hear and who replied yea to it--a poor word indeed
yet a potent, for it gave the death-blow to superstition, but left religion out in the cold.
The general, the great offence Carlyle charges Voltaire with is, that "he intermeddled in religion
without being himself in any measure religious; that he entered the Temple and continued there
with a levity which, in any temple where men worship, can beseem no brother man; that, in a
word, he ardently, and with long-continued effort, warred against Christianity, without understanding,
beyond the mere superficies, what Christianity was" (1694-1778).

VOLUNTARYISM, the doctrine that the Church should not depend on the State, but should be supported
exclusively by the voluntary contributions of its members.

VOODOO, name given to a system of magic and superstitious rites prevalent among certain negro
races.

VORTIGERN, a British prince of the 5th century, who, on the withdrawal of the Romans, invited
the Saxons to aid him against the incursions of the Picts, to, as it proved, their own installation
into sovereign power in South Britain.

VOSGES, a range of mountains in the NE. of France, since 1871 forming the Franco-German frontier
by the inclusion of Alsace in German territory; they separate the basin of the Moselle from
that of the Rhine.

VOSS, JOHANN HEINRICH, German poet and scholar, born in Mecklenburg; spent most of his life
in Heidelberg; his fame rests chiefly on his idyllic poem "Luise" and his translations, particularly
of Homer (1751-1826).

VOSSIUS, GERARD, Dutch philologist, born near Heidelberg; wrote a history of Pelagianism, which
brought him disfavour with the orthodox; was made a prebendary of Canterbury through the influence
of Laud; was, on some apology to orthodoxy in 1633, called to the chair of History in the Gymnasium
of Amsterdam; he was a friend of Grotius; he fell from a ladder in his library, and was found
dead (1577-1649).

VULCAN, the Roman god of fire and an artificer In metals, identified with the Greek HEPHÆSTUS
(q. v.); had a temple to his honour in early Rome; was fabled to have had a forge under Mount
Etna, where he manufactured thunderbolts for Jupiter, the Cyclops being his workmen.

VULGATE, a version of the Bible in Latin executed by ST. JEROME (q. v.), and was in two centuries
after its execution universally adopted in the Western Christian Church as authoritative for
both faith and practice, and from the circumstance of its general reception it became known
as the Vulgate (i. e. the commonly-accepted Bible of the Church), and it is the version accepted
as authentic to-day by the Roman Catholic Church, under sanction of the Council of Trent. "With
the publication of it," says Ruskin, "the great deed of fixing, in their ever since undisturbed
harmony and majesty, the canon of Mosaic and Apostolic Scripture, was virtually accomplished,
and the series of historic and didactic books which form our present Bible (including the Apocrypha)
were established in and above the nascent thought of the noblest races of men living on the
terrestrial globe, as a direct message to them from its Maker, containing whatever it was necessary
for them to learn of His purposes towards them, and commanding, or advising, with divine authority
and infallible wisdom, all that it was best for them to do and happiest to desire. Thus, partly
as a scholar's exercise and partly as an old man's recreation, the severity of the Latin language
was softened, like Venetian crystal, by the variable fire of Hebrew thought, and the 'Book
of Books' took the abiding form of which all the future art of the Western nations was to be
an hourly expanding interpretation."

VYASA, the mythical author of the Hindu Mahâbhârata and the Puránas; was the illegitimate child
of a Brahman and a girl of impure caste of the fisher class.

W

WAAL, a S. branch of the Rhine, in Holland.

WACE, Anglo-Norman poet, born in Guernsey; author of two metrical chronicles, "Geste des Brétons"
and "Roman de Rou," the latter recording the fortunes of the dukes of Normandy down to 1106
(1120-1183).

WACE, HENRY, Principal of King's College, London; has lectured ably on Christian apologetics,
and written valuable works in defence of Christianity; b. 1836.

WADE, GEORGE, English general; commanded in Scotland during the rebellion of 1715, has the
credit of the construction in 1725-35 of the military roads into the Highlands, to frustrate
any further attempts at rebellion in the north (1668-1748).

WADMAN, WIDOW, a lady in "Tristram Shandy" who pays court to Uncle Toby.

WADY, an Arabic name for the channel of a stream which is flooded in rainy weather and at other
seasons dry.

WAGNER, WILHELM RICHARD, the great musical composer, born at Leipzig; showed early a faculty
for music, and began the enthusiastic study of it under Beethoven; in 1835 became conductor
of the orchestra of the theatre of Magdeburg, and held the same post afterwards at Riga and
Königsberg; his principal works were "Rienzi" (1840), "The Flying Dutchman" (1843), "Tannhäuser"
(1845), "Lohengrin" (1850), "Tristan and Isolde" (1859), "The Mastersingers of Nürnberg" (1859-60),
and the "Ring of the Nibelungen," the composition of which occupied 25 years; this last was
performed in 1876 at Bayreuth in a theatre erected for the purpose in presence of the emperor
of Germany and the principal musical artists of the world; "Parsifal" was his last work; his
musical ideas were revolutionary, and it was some time before his works made their way in England
(1813-1883).

WAGRAM, a village, 10 m. NE. of Vienna, where Napoleon gained a great victory over the Austrians
under the Archduke Charles, on July 5 and 6, 1809.

WAHABIS, a Mohammedan sect which arose among the Nedj tribe in Central Arabia, whose aims were
puritanic and the restoration of Islamism to its primitive simplicity in creed, worship, and
conduct; in creed they were substantially the same as the SUNNITES (q. v.).

WAIKATO, the largest river in New Zealand, in the North Island, the outlet of the waters of
Lake Taupo, the largest lake; has a course of 170 m.

WAKEFIELD (37), a borough of Yorkshire, 9 m. S. of Leeds; has large woollen and other manufactures.

WALCHEREN, an island in the province of Zeeland, in the delta formed by the Maas and Scheldt;
was the destination of an unfortunate expedition sent to the help of the Austrians against
Napoleon in Antwerp, in which 7000 of the army composing it died of marsh fever, from which
10,000 were sent home sick and the rest recalled.

WALDECK-PYRMONT (57), two high-lying territories in North Germany forming one principality
and subject to imperial authority; consists of hill and valley.

WALDENSES, a Christian community founded in 1170 in the south of France, on the model of the
primitive Church, by Peter Walden, a rich citizen of Lyons, and who were driven by persecution
from country to country until they settled in Piedmont under the name of the VAUDOIS (q. v.),
where they still exist.

WALES (1,519), one of three divisions of Great Britain; is 135 m. in length and from 37 to
95 m. in breadth, and bounded on the NW. and S. by the sea; it is divided into 12 counties,
of which 6 form North Wales and 6 South Wales; is a mountainous country, intersected by beautiful
valleys, which are traversed by a number of streams; it is largely agricultural; has mines
of coal and iron, lead and copper, as well as large slate-quarries, which are extensively wrought;
the Church of England is the church established, but the majority of the people are Nonconformists;
it is represented in Parliament by 30 members; the natives are Celts, and the native language
Celtic, which is still the language of a goodly number of the people.

WALES, PRINCE OF, title borne by eldest son of the English monarch; first conferred in 1301
on eldest son of Edward I. after subjugation of Wales (1282); since 1901 borne by Prince George,
formerly Duke of York; entered the navy in 1877, and attained the post of commander in 1890;
became heir of the throne on death of his brother, Duke of Clarence (1892); married Princess
Mary of Teck (1893), and has by this marriage four sons and a daughter; b. 1865.

WALFISH BAY, a dependency of Cape Colony, in the middle of the coast-line of German South-West
Africa.

WALKER, GEORGE, defender of Londonderry against the army of James II., born in co. Tyrone,
of English parents; was in holy orders, and by his sermons encouraged the town's-people during
the siege, which lasted 105 days; he afterwards fought in command of his Derry men at the battle
of the Boyne, where he lost his life.

WALLACE, ALFRED RUSSEL, English naturalist, born at Usk, in Monmouthshire; was devoted to the
study of natural history, in the interest of which he spent four years (1848-52) in the valley
of the Amazon, and eight years after (1854-62) in the East India Archipelago, from the latter
of which expedition especially he returned with thousands of specimens of natural objects,
particularly insects and birds, and during his absence he wrought out a theory in the main
coincident with Darwin's natural selection in corroboration thereof; he has since devoted much
of his time to the study of spiritualism, and in spite of himself has come to be convinced
of its claims to scientific regard; he has written on his travels, "Contributions to the Theory
of Natural Selection," "Miracles and Modern Spiritualism," &c.; b. 1823.

WALLACE, SIR WILLIAM, the champion of Scottish independence, born in Renfrewshire, second son
of Sir Malcolm Wallace of Elderslie; was early seized with a desire to free his country from
foreign oppressors, and ere long began to figure as chief of a band of outlaws combined to
defy the authority of Edward I., who had declared himself Lord of Scotland, till at length
the sense of the oppression became wide-spread, and he was appointed to lead in a general revolt,
while many of the nobles held aloof or succumbed to the usurper; he drove the English from
one stronghold after another, finishing with the battle of Stirling, and was installed thereafter
guardian of the kingdom; such a reverse was more than the "proud usurper" could brook; he accordingly
mustered a large army, and at Falkirk literally crushed Wallace and his followers with an overwhelming
force, the craven nobles still standing aloof, one of them in the end proving traitor, and
handing Wallace over to the enemy, who carried him off to London, and had him hanged, beheaded,
and quartered.

WALLACE COLLECTION, a collection of works of art bequeathed to the nation by Lady Wallace,
and now being housed in Hertford House, Manchester Square, London.

WALLENSTEIN, general of the Imperial army in the Thirty Years' War, born in Bohemia, of a Protestant
family, but on the death of his parents was, in his childhood, adopted and educated by the
Jesuits, and bred up in the Catholic faith; bent on a military life, he served first in one
campaign and then another; rose in imperial favour, and became a prince of the empire, but
the jealousy of the nobles procured his disgrace, till the success of Gustavus Adolphus in
the Thirty Years' War and the death of Tully led to his recall, when he was placed at the head
of the imperial army as commander-in-chief; drove the Saxons out of Bohemia, and marched against
the Swedes, but was defeated, and fell again into disfavour; was deprived of his command, charged
with treason, and afterwards murdered in the castle of Egra; he was a remarkable man, great
in war and great in statesmanship, but of unbounded ambition; is the subject of a drama by
Schiller, in three parts (1583-1634).

WALLER, EDMUND, poet, born in Hertfordshire to great wealth, and educated at Eton and Cambridge;
early gave evidence of his genius for poetry, which, however, was limited in practice to the
production of merely occasional pieces; he was in great favour at court; was a member of the
Long Parliament; leant to the Royalist side, though he wrote a panegyric on Cromwell, which,
too, is considered his best poem; he revived, or rather "remodelled," the heroic couplet form
of verse, which continued in vogue for over a hundred years after (1605-1687).

WALLOONS, name given to the descendants of the ancient Belgæ, a race of a mixed Celtic and
Romanic stock, inhabiting Belgium chiefly, and speaking a language called Walloon, a kind of
Old French; in Belgium they number to-day two and a quarter millions.

WALPOLE, HORACE, Earl of Orford, born in London, educated at Eton and Cambridge; travelled
on the Continent with Gray, the poet, who had been a school-fellow, but quarrelled with him,
and came home alone; entered Parliament in 1741, and continued a member till 1768, but took
little part in the debates; succeeded to the earldom in 1791; his tastes were literary; wrote
"Anecdotes of Painting in England," and inaugurated a new era in novel-writing with his "Castle
of Otranto," but it is by his "Letters" he will live in English literature, which, "malicious,
light as froth, but amusing, retail," as Stopford Brooke remarks, "with liveliness all the
gossip of the time"; he is characterised by Carlyle as "one of the clearest-sighted men of
his century; a determined despiser and merciless dissector of cant" (1717-1797).

WALPOLE, SIR ROBERT, Earl of Orford, Whig statesman, born at Houghton, Norfolk, educated at
Eton and Cambridge; entered Parliament in 1701, and became member for King's Lynn in 1702;
was favoured by the Whig leaders, and promoted to office in the Cabinet; was accused of corruption
by the opposite party when in power, and committed to the Tower; on his release after acquittal
was re-elected for King's Lynn; in 1715 became First Lord of the Treasury, and in 1721 became
Prime Minister, which he continued to be for twenty-one years, but not without opposition on
account of his pacific policy; on being driven against his will into a war with Spain, which
proved unsuccessful, he retired into private life; he stood high in repute for his financial
policy; it was he who established the first Sinking Fund, and who succeeded as a financier
in restoring confidence after the bursting of the SOUTH SEA BUBBLE (q. v.); it is to his policy
in defeating the plans of the Jacobites that the Hanoverian dynasty in great part owe their
permanent occupancy of the British throne; it was a favourite maxim of his. "Every man has
his price," and he was mortified to find that Pitt could not be bought by any bribe of his
(1677-1745).

WALPURGIS NIGHT, the eve of the 1st May, when the witches hold high revel and offer sacrifices
to the devil their chief, the scene of their festival in Germany being the BROCKEN (q. v.).
This annual festival was in the popular belief conceded to them in recompense for the loss
they sustained when by St. Walpurga the Saxons were persuaded to renounce paganism with its
rites for Christianity.

WALSINGHAM, SIR FRANCIS, English statesman, born at Chiselhurst; was ambassador at Paris, and
was there during the St. Bartholomew massacre, and was afterwards appointed one of Queen Elizabeth's
Secretaries of State; he was an insidious inquisitor, and had numerous spies in his pay, whom
he employed to ferret out evidence to her ruin against Mary, Queen of Scots, and he had the
audacity to sit as one of the Commissioners at her trial (1536-1590).

WALSTON, ST., patron saint of husbandmen, of British birth; gave up wealth for agriculture,
and died at the plough; is represented with a scythe in his hand and cattle near him.

WALTER, JOHN, London printer; the founder proper, though his father was the projector, of the
Times newspaper, and forty years in the management of it, under which it became the "leading
journal" of the day, a success due to his discernment and selection of the men with the ability
to conduct it and contribute to it (1773-1847).

WALTER THE PENNILESS, a famous mob leader, adjutant of Peter the HERMIT (q. v.) in the first
Crusade.

WALTON, IZAAK, the angler, born in Stafford; settled as a linen-draper, first in Fleet Street
and then in Chancery Lane, London; married a lady, a grand-niece of Cranmer, and on her death
a sister of Bishop Ken, by whom he had several children; he associated with some of the best
clergymen of the Church of England, among the number Dr. Donne, and was much beloved by them;
on the death of his second wife he went to Winchester and stayed with his friend Dr. Morley,
the bishop; his principal work was the "Complete Angler; or, the Contemplative Man's Recreation,"
which was extended by his friend Charles Cotton, and is a classic to this day; he wrote in
addition Lives of Hooker, Dr. Donne, Bishop Sanderson, Sir Henry Wotton, and George Herbert,
all done, like the "Angler," in a uniquely charming, simple style (1593-1683).

WANDERING JEW. See JEW, WANDERING.

WAPENSHAW, originally gatherings of the people of a district in ancient times in Scotland,
at which every man was bound to appear duly armed according to his rank, and make exhibition
of his skill in the use of his weapons, against a time of war.

WARBECK, PERKIN, an impostor who affected to be Richard, Duke of York, second son of Edward
IV., alleged to have been murdered in the Tower, and laid claim to the crown of England in
preference to Henry VII. In an attempt to make good this claim he was taken prisoner, and hanged
at Tyburn in 1499.

WARBURTON, WILLIAM, an English divine, born at Newark; was bishop of Gloucester; was author
of the famous "Divine Legation of Moses," characterised by Gibbon as a "monument of the vigour
and weakness of the human mind"; is a distracted waste of misapplied logic and learning; a
singular friendship subsisted between the author and Pope (1698-1779).

WARD, ARTEMUS, the pseudonym of C. F. BROWNE (q. v.).

WARD, MRS. HUMPHRY, English authoress, born at Hobart Town; is a niece of Matthew Arnold; translated
Amiel's "Journal," a suggestive record, but is best known by her romance of "Robert Elsmere,"
published in 1888, a work which was a help to some weak people and an offence to others of
the same class; b. 1851.

WARD, WILLIAM GEORGE, English theologian; was a zealous promoter of the Tractarian Movement,
and led the way in carrying out its principles to their logical issue by joining the Church
of Rome; he was a broad-minded man withal, and won the regard of men of every school; became
editor of the Dublin Review (1812-1882).

WARRINGTON (55), a parliamentary borough in Lancashire, on the Mersey, 20 m. E. of Liverpool;
an old town, but with few relics of its antiquity; manufactures iron-ware, glass, soap, &c.;
sends one member to Parliament.

WARS OF THE ROSES, name given to a civil war in England from 1452 to 1486, between the Houses
of York and Lancaster, so called from the badge of the former being a white rose and that of
the latter being a red; it terminated with the accession of Henry VII., who united in his person
the rival claims.

WARSAW (465), formerly the capital of Poland, now of the province of Russian Poland; stands
on the left bank of the Vistula, 700 m. SW. of St. Petersburg; is almost in the heart of Europe,
and in a position with many natural advantages; is about as large as Birmingham, and the third
largest city in the Russian empire; it has a university with 75 professors and 1000 students,
and has a large trade and numerous manufactures.

WARTBURG, an old grim castle overhanging EISENACH (q. v.), where Luther was confined by his
friends when it was too hot for him outside, and where, not forgetful of what he owed his country,
he kept translating the Bible into the German vernacular, and where they still show the oaken
table at which he did it, and the oaken ink-holder which he threw at the devil's head, as well
as the ink-spot it left on the wall.

WARTON, THOMAS, English poet, born at Basingstoke; was professor of Poetry at Oxford, and Poet-Laureate;
wrote a "History of English Poetry" of great merit, and a few poetic pieces in faint echo of
others by Pope and Swift for most part (1728-1790).

WARWICK (11), the county town of Warwickshire, on the Avon, 21 m. SE. of Birmingham; it dates
from Saxon times, and possesses a great baronial castle, the residence of the earls of Warwick,
erected in 1394 on an eminence by the river grandly overlooking the town; it is the seat of
several industries, and has a considerable trade in agricultural produce.

WARWICK, RICHARD NEVILLE, EARL OF, eldest son of the Earl of Salisbury, THE KING-MAKER (q.
v.); fought in the "Wars of the Roses," and was in the end defeated by Edward IV. and slain
(1428-1471).

WARWICKSHIRE (805), central county of England; is traversed by the Avon, a tributary of the
Severn; the north portion, which was at one time covered by the forest of Arden, is now, from
its mineral wealth, one of the busiest industrial centres of England; it contains the birthplace
of Shakespeare; Birmingham is the largest town.

WASH, THE, an estuary of the E. coast of England, between the counties of Norfolk and Lincoln,
too shallow for navigation.

WASHINGTON (278), capital of the United States, in the district of Columbia, on the left bank
of the Potomac, 35 in. SW. of Baltimore; was founded in 1791, and made the seat of the Government
in 1800; it is regularly laid out, possesses a number of noble buildings, many of them of marble,
the chief being the Capitol, an imposing structure, where the Senate and Congress sit; near
it, 1½ m. distant, is the White House, the residence of the President, standing in grounds
beautifully laid out and adorned with fountains and shrubbery.

WASHINGTON (340), a NW. State of the American Union, twice the size of Ireland; lies N. of
Oregon; is traversed by the Cascade Mountains, the highest 8138 ft., and has a rugged surface
of hill and valley, but is a great wheat-growing and grazing territory, covered on the W. by
forests of pine and cedar; Olympia is the capital. Washington is the name of hundreds of places
in the States.

WASHINGTON, GEORGE, one of the founders and first President of the United States, born at Bidges
Creek, Westmoreland Co., Virginia, of a family from the North of England, who emigrated in
the middle of the 17th century; commenced his public life in defending the colony against the
encroachments of the French, and served as a captain in a campaign against them under General
Braddock; In the contest between the colony and the mother-country he warmly espoused that
of the colony, and was in 1775 appointed commander-in-chief; his first important operation
in that capacity was to drive the English out of Boston, but the British rallying he was defeated
at Brandywine and Germantown in 1777; next year, in alliance with the French, he drove the
British out of Philadelphia, and in 1781 compelled Cornwallis to capitulate in an attack he
made on Yorktown, and on the evacuation of New York by the British the independence of America
was achieved, upon which he resigned the command; in 1789 he was elected to the Presidency
of the Republic, and in 1793 was re-elected, at the end of which he retired into private life
after paying a dignified farewell (1732-1799).

WATERBURY (46), a city of Connecticut, U.S., 88 m. NE. of New York, with manufactures of metallic
wares; world-famous for its cheap watches.

WATERFORD (21), a town in a county of the same name (98), in Munster, Ireland, at the junction
of the Suir and the Barrow; has a splendid harbour formed by the estuary, and carries on an
extensive export trade with England, particularly in bacon and butter, the chief industries
of the county being cattle-breeding and dairy-farming.

WATERLOO, a village 11 m. S. of Brussels, which gives name to a battle in which the French
under Napoleon were defeated by an army under Wellington on June 18, 1815.

WATLING STREET, a great Roman road extending from Dover and terminating by two branches in
the extreme N. of England after passing through London, the NE. branch, by York, and the NW.
by or to Chester.

WATSON, WILLIAM, poet, born in Yorkshire; the first poem which procured him recognition was
"Wordsworth's Grave," and his subsequent poems have confirmed the impression produced, in especial
his "Lachrymæ Musarum," one of the finest tributes paid to the memory of Tennyson on the occasion
of his death; among his later productions the most important is a volume entitled "Odes and
other Poems," published in 1894; has also written an admirable volume of essays, "Excursions
in Criticism"; b. 1858.

WATT, JAMES, inventor of the modern steam-engine, born in Greenock, son of a merchant; began
life as a mathematical-instrument maker, opened business in Glasgow under university patronage,
and early began to experiment on the mechanical capabilities of steam; when in 1703, while
engaged in repairing the model of a Newcomen's engine, he hit upon the idea which has immortalised
his name. This was the idea of a separate condenser for the steam, and from that moment the
power of steam in the civilisation of the world was assured; the advantages of the invention
were soon put to the proof and established, and by a partnership on the part of Watts with
MATTHEW BOULTON (q. v.) Watt had the satisfaction of seeing his idea fairly launched and of
reaping of the fruits. Prior to Watt's invention the steam-engine was of little other use than
for pumping water (1736-1819).

WATTEAU, ANTOINE, celebrated French painter and engraver, born at Valenciennes; his pictures
were numerous and the subjects almost limited to pseudo-pastoral rural groups; the tone of
the colouring is pleasing, and the design graceful (1684-1721).

WATTS, GEORGE FREDERICK, eminent English painter, born in London; is distinguished as a painter
at once of historical subjects, ideal subjects, and portraits; did one of the frescoes in the
Poets' Hall of the Houses of Parliament and the cartoon of "Caractacus led in Triumph through
the Streets of Rome"; has, as a "poet-painter," by his "Love and Death," "Hope," and "Orpheus
and Eurydice," achieved a world-wide fame; he was twice over offered a baronetcy, but on both
occasions he declined; b. 1817.

WATTS, ISAAC, Nonconformist divine, born at Southampton, son of a schoolmaster; chose the ministry
as his profession, was for a time pastor of a church in Mark Lane, but after a succession of
attacks of illness he resigned and went on a visit to his friend Sir Thomas Abney, with whom
he stayed for 36 years, at which time his friend died, and he resumed pastoral duties as often
as his health permitted; he wrote several books, among which was a book on "Logic," long a
university text-book, and a great number of hymns, many of them of wide fame and much cherished
as helps to devotion (1674-1748).

WATTS, THEODORE, critic, born at St. Ives, bosom friend of Swinburne, who pronounces him "the
first critic of our time--perhaps the largest-minded and surest-sighted of any age"; his influence
is great, and it has been exercised chiefly through contributions to the periodicals of the
day; has assumed the surname of Dunton after his mother; b. 1836.

WAUGH, EDWIN, a Lancashire poet, born at Rochdale, bred a bookseller; wrote, among other productions,
popular songs, full of original native humour, the first of them "Come Whoam to thy Childer
and Me" (1817-1890).

WAYLAND, the smith, a Scandinavian Vulcan, of whom a number of legends were current; figures
in Scott's "Kenilworth."

WAZIRIS, a tribe of independent Afghans inhabiting the Suleiman Mountains, on the W. frontier
of the Punjab.

WEALTH, defined by Ruskin to be the possession of things in themselves valuable, that is, of
things available for the support of life, or inherently possessed of life-giving power.

WEBER, KARL MARIA VON, German composer, born near Lübeck, of a famed musical family; early
gave proof of musical talent; studied at Vienna under Abbé Vogler, and at Dresden became founder
and director of the German opera; his first great production was "Der Freischütz," which established
his fame, and was succeeded by, among others, "Oberon," his masterpiece, first produced in
London, where, shortly after the event, he died, broken in health; he wrote a number of pieces
for the piano, deservedly popular (1786-1826).

WEBER, WILHELM EDUARD, German physicist, born at Wittenberg; professor at Göttingen; distinguished
for his contributions to electricity and magnetism, both scientific and practical (1801-1891).

WEBSTER, DANIEL, American statesman and orator, born at New Hampshire; bred to the bar, and
practised in the provincial courts; by-and-by went to Boston, which was ever after his home;
entered Congress in 1813, where, by his commanding presence and his animated oratory, he soon
made his mark; was secretary for foreign affairs under President Harrison, and negotiated the
Ashburton Treaty in settlement of the "boundary-line" question between England and the States;
was much admired by Emerson, and was, when he visited England, commended by him to the regard
of Carlyle as a man to "hear speak," as "with a cause he could strike a stroke like a smith";
Carlyle did not take to him; he was too political for his taste, though he recognised in him
a "man--never have seen," he wrote Emerson, "so much silent Berserkir-rage in any other man"
(1782-1852).

WEBSTER, JOHN, English dramatist of the 17th century; did a good deal as a dramatist in collaboration
with others, but some four plays are exclusively his own work, the two best the "White Devil"
and the "Duchess of Malfi."

WEBSTER, NOAH, lexicographer, born at Hartford, Connecticut, U.S.; bred to law; tried journalism;
devoted 20 years to his "Dictionary of the English Language" (1758-1843).

WEDGWOOD, JOSIAH, celebrated English potter, born at Burslem, son of a potter; in 1759 started
a pottery on artistic lines in his native place; devoted himself first to the study of the
material of his art and then to its ornamentation, in which latter he had at length the good
fortune to enlist Flaxman as a designer, and so a ware known by his name became famous for
both its substantial and artistic excellence far and wide over the country and beyond; he was
a man of varied culture and of princely generosity, having by his art amassed a large fortune
(1730-1793).

WEDNESBURY (69), a town in Staffordshire, 8 m. NW. of Birmingham; iron-ware manufacture the
chief industry; has an old church on the site of an old temple to Woden, whence the name, it
is alleged.

WEDNESDAY, fourth day of the week, Woden's Day, as Thursday is Thor's. It is called Midwoch,
i. e. Midweek, by the Germans.

WEEK, division of time of seven days, supposed to have been suggested by the interval between
the quarters of the moon.

WEEPING PHILOSOPHER, a sobriquet given to HERACLITUS (q. v.) from a melancholy disposition
ascribed to him, in contrast with DEMOCRITUS (q. v.), designated the laughing philosopher.

WEI-HAI-WEI, a city in a deep bay on the Shantung promontory, China, 40 m. E. of Chefoo, and
nearly opposite Port Arthur, which is situated on the northern side of the entrance to the
Gulf of Pechili; was leased to Great Britain in 1898, along with the islands in the bay and
a belt of land along the coast; its harbour is well sheltered, and accommodates a large number
of vessels.

WEIMAR (24), capital of the grand-duchy of Saxe-Weimar, in a valley on the left bank of the
Ilm, 13 m. E. of Erfurt, and famous as for many years the residence of the great Goethe and
the illustrious literary circle of which he was the centre, an association which constitutes
the chief interest of the place.

WEINGARTNER, FELIX, composer and musical conductor, born at Zara, Dalmatia; has composed symphonic
poems, operas, and songs; b. 1863.

WEISMANN, AUGUST, biologist, born at Frankfort-on-the-Main; studied medicine at Göttingen;
devoted himself to the study of zoology, the first-fruit of which was a treatise on the "Development
of Diptera," and at length to the variability in organisms on which the theory of descent,
with modifications, is based, the fruit of which was a series of papers published in 1882 under
the title of "Studies on the Theory of Descent"; but it is with the discussions on the question
of heredity that his name is most intimately associated. The accepted theory on the subject
assumes that characters acquired by the individual are transmitted to offspring, and this assumption,
in his "Essays upon Heredity," he maintains to be wholly groundless, and denies that it has
any foundation in fact; heredity, according to him, is due to the continuity of the germ-plasm,
or the transmission from generation to generation of a substance of a uniform chemical and
molecular composition; b. 1834.

WEISS, BERNHARD, German theologian, born at Königsberg; became professor at Kiel and afterwards
at Berlin; has written on the theology of the New Testament, an introduction to it, and a "Leben
Jesu," all able works; b. 1827.

WEISSENFELS (23), a town of Prussian Saxony, 35 m. SW. of Leipzig, with an old castle of the
Duke of Weissenfels and various manufactures.

WEISSNICHTWO (Know-not-where), in Carlyle's "Sartor," an imaginary European city, viewed as
the focus, and as exhibiting the operation, of all the influences for good and evil of the
time we live in, described in terms which characterised city life in the first quarter of the
19th century; so universal appeared the spiritual forces at work in society at that time that
it was impossible to say where they were and where they were not, and hence the name of the
city, Know-not-where.

WEIZSÄCHER, KARL, eminent German theologian; studied at Tübingen and Berlin; succeeded BAUR
(q. v.) as professor at Tübingen; was a New Testament critic, and the editor of a theological
journal, and distinguished for his learning and lucid style; b. 1822.

WELLDON, JAMES EDWARD COWELL, bishop of Calcutta; educated at Eton and Cambridge; has held
several appointments, both scholastic and clerical; has translated several of the works of
Aristotle, and was Hulsean Lecturer at Cambridge in 1897; b. 1854.

WELLER, SAM, Mr. Pickwick's servant, and an impersonation of the ready wit and best quality
of London low life.

WELLESLEY, a small province, part of Penang Territory, in the Straits Settlements; of great
fertility, and yields tropical products in immense quantities, such as spices, tea, coffee,
sugar, cotton, and tobacco.

WELLESLEY, RICHARD COWLEY, MARQUIS OF, statesman and administrator, born in Dublin, eldest
son of the Earl of Mornington, an Irish peer, and eldest brother of the Duke of Wellington,
and his senior by nine years; educated at Eton and Cambridge, where he distinguished himself
in classics; in 1781 succeeded his father in the Irish House of Peers; entered Parliament in
1784; was a supporter of Pitt, and in 1797 appointed Governor-General of India in succession
to Cornwallis, and raised to the English peerage as Baron Wellesley; in this capacity he proved
himself a great administrator, and by clearing out the French and crushing the power of Tippoo
Saib, as well as increasing the revenue of the East India Company, laid the foundation of the
British power in India, for which he was raised to the marquisate, and voted a pension of £5000;
he afterwards became Foreign Secretary of State and Viceroy of Ireland (1760-1842).

WELLHAUSEN, JULIUS, Old Testament scholar, born at Hameln; held the post of professor of Theology
at Greifswald, but resigned the post from conscientious scruples and became professor of Oriental
Languages at Marburg in 1885; is best known among us as a biblical critic on the lines of the
so-called higher criticism, the criticism which seeks to arrange the different parts of the
Bible in their proper historical connection and order; b. 1844.

WELLINGBOROUGH (15), a market-town in Northamptonshire, 10 m. NE. of Northampton; has some
fine buildings; the manufacture of shoes a chief industry.

WELLINGTON (33), the capital of New Zealand, in the North Island, on Cook Strait; has a spacious
harbour, with excellent accommodation for shipping, a number of public buildings, including
government offices, and two cathedrals, a Roman Catholic and an Anglican, and a considerable
trade; in 1865 it superseded Auckland as the capital of the whole of New Zealand.

WELLINGTON, ARTHUR WELLESLEY (or WESLEY), DUKE OF, born probably in Dublin, third son of the
Earl of Mornington, an Irish peer, educated first at Chelsea, then at Eton, and then at a military
school at Angers, in France; entered the army in 1787 as an ensign in the 73rd, and stepped
gradually upwards in connection with different regiments, till in 1793 he became lieutenant-colonel
of the 33rd; sat for a time in the Irish Parliament as a member for Trim, and went in 1794
to the Netherlands, and served in a campaign there which had disastrous issues such as disgusted
him with military life, and was about to leave the army when he was sent to India, where he
distinguished himself in the storming of Seringapatam, and in the command of the war against
the Mahrattas, which he brought to a successful issue in 1803, returning home in 1805; next
year he entered the Imperial Parliament, and in 1807 was appointed Chief Secretary for Ireland;
in 1808 he left for Portugal, where he was successful against the French in several engagements,
and in 1809 was appointed commander-in-chief of the Peninsular army; in this capacity his generalship
became conspicuous in a succession of victories, in which he drove the French first out of
Portugal and then out of Spain, defeating them finally at Toulouse on the 12th April 1814,
and so ending the Peninsular War; on his return home he was loaded with honours, and had voted
to him from the public treasury a grant of £400,000; on the return of Napoleon from Elba he
was appointed general of the allies against him in the Netherlands and on 18th June 1815 defeated
him in the ever-memorable battle of Waterloo; this was the crowning feat in Wellington's military
life, and the nation showed its gratitude to him for his services by presenting him with the
estate of Strathfieldsaye, in Hampshire, worth £263,000, the price paid for it to Lord Rivers,
the proprietor; in 1827 he was appointed commander-in-chief of the army, and in 1828 was Prime
Minister of the State; as a statesman he was opposed to Parliamentary reform, but he voted
for the emancipation of the Catholics and the abolition of the Corn Laws; he died in Walmer
Castle on 1st September 1852, aged 84, and was buried beside Nelson in a crypt of St. Paul's
(1769-1852).

WELLINGTON COLLEGE, a college founded in 1853 at Wokingham, Berks, in memory of the Duke of
Wellington, primarily for the education of the sons of deceased military officers; there is
a classical school to prepare for the university, and a modern side to prepare for the army, &c.

WELLS, a small episcopal city in Somersetshire, 20 m. SW. of Bath; it derives its name from
hot springs near it, and is possessed of a beautiful cruciform cathedral in the Early English
style, adorned with some 600 statues of saints, 151 of which are life-size, and some of them
colossal.

WELLS, CHARLES JEREMIAH, English poet, born in London; author of a dramatic poem entitled "Joseph
and his Brethren," published in 1824, a poem which failed to attract attention at the time,
and the singular merits of which were first recognised by Swinburne in 1875, the author having
meantime given up literature for the law, to which he had been bred (1800-1879).

WELSH, DAVID, a Scottish divine, a gentlemanly scholarly man, professor of Church History in
the University of Edinburgh; was Moderator of the General Assembly on the occasion of the Disruption
of the Scottish Church (1843), and headed the secession on the day of the exodus (1793-1845).

WELSH, or WELCH, JOHN, a Scottish divine, a Nithsdale man; became Presbyterian minister of
Ayr, and was distinguished both as a preacher and for his sturdy opposition to the ecclesiastical
tyranny of James VI., for which latter he suffered imprisonment and exile; he was an ancestor
of Jane Welsh Carlyle, and was married to a daughter of John Knox, who, when the king thought
to win her over by offering her husband a bishopric, held out her apron before sovereign majesty,
and threatened she would rather kep (catch) his head there than that he should live and be
a bishop; she figures in the chapter in "Sartor" on Aprons, as one of Carlyle's apron-worthies
(1570-1625).

WELSH CALVINISTIC METHODISTS, the largest Nonconformist body in Wales, of native growth, and
that originated in the middle of the 18th century in connection with a great religious awakening;
has an ecclesiastical constitution on Presbyterian lines, and is in alliance with the Presbyterian
Church of England; it consists of 1330 churches, and has a membership of over 150,000, that
is, on their communion roll, and two theological seminaries, one at Trevecca and one at Bala.

WELSHPOOL (6), town in Montgomeryshire, North Wales, on the left bank of the Severn, 19 m.
W. of Shrewsbury, the manufacture of flannels and woollen goods being the chief industry.

WENDS, a horde of savage Slavs who, about the 6th century, invaded and took possession of vacant
lands on the southern shores of the Baltic, and extended their inroads as far as Hamburg and
the ocean, south also far over the Elbe in some quarters, and were a source of great trouble
to the Germans in Henry the Fowler's time, and after; they burst in upon Brandenburg once,
in "never-imagined fury," and stamped out, as they thought, the Christian religion there by
wholesale butchery of its priests, setting up for worship their own god "Triglaph, ugliest
and stupidest of all false gods," described as "something like three whales' cubs combined
by boiling, or a triple porpoise dead-drunk." They were at length "fairly beaten to powder"
by Albert the Bear, "and either swept away or else damped down into Christianity and keeping
of the peace," though remnants of them, with their language and customs, exist in Lusatia to
this day.

WENDT, HANS, German theologian, born in Hamburg, professor at Kiel and at Heidelberg; has written
an excellent "Leben Jesu" among other able works; b. 1853.

WENEGELD, among the old Saxons and other Teutonic races a fine, the price of homicide, of varying
amount, paid in part to the relatives of the person killed and in part to the king or chief.

WENER, LAKE, the largest lake in Sweden, in the SW., 150 ft. above the sea-level and 100 m.
long by 50 m. of utmost breadth, contains several islands, and abounds in fish.

WENTWORTH. See STRAFFORD.

WEREWOLF, a person transformed into a wolf, or a being with a literally wolfish appetite, under
the presumed influence of a charm or some demoniac possession.

WERNER, FRIEDRICH LUDWIG ZACHARIAS, a dramatist of a mystic stamp, born at Königsberg; is the
subject of an essay by Carlyle, and described by him as a man of a very dissolute spiritual
texture; wrote the "Templars of Cyprus," the "Story of the Fallen Master," &c. (1768-1823).

WERTHER, the hero of Goethe's sentimental romance, "THE SORROWS OF WERTHER" (q. v.).

WESLEY, CHARLES, hymn-writer, born at Epworth, educated at Eton and Oxford; was associated
with his more illustrious brother in the establishment of Methodism; his hymns are highly devotional,
and are to be found in all the hymnologies of the Church (1708-1788).

WESLEY, JOHN, the founder of Methodism, born at Epworth, in Lincolnshire, son of the rector;
was educated at the Charterhouse and at Lincoln College, Oxford, of which he became a Fellow;
while there he and his brother, with others, were distinguished for their religious earnestness,
and were nicknamed Methodists; in 1735 he went on a mission to Georgia, U.S., and had for fellow-voyagers
some members of the Moravian body, whose simple piety made a deep impression on him; and on
his return in two years after he made acquaintance with a Moravian missionary in London, and
was persuaded to a kindred faith; up to this time he had been a High Churchman, but from this
time he ceased from all sacerdotalism and became a believer in and a preacher of the immediate
connection of the soul with, and its direct dependence upon, God's grace in Christ alone; this
gospel accordingly he went forth and preached in disregard of all mere ecclesiastical authority,
he riding about from place to place on horseback, and finding wherever he went the people in
thousands, in the open air generally, eagerly expectant of his approach, all open-eared to
listen to his word; to the working-classes his visits were specially welcome, and it was among
them they bore most fruit; "the keynote of his ministry he himself gave utterance to when he
exclaimed, 'Church or no Church, the people must be saved.'" Saved or Lost? was with him the
one question, and it is the one question of all genuine Methodism to this hour (1703-1791).

WESSEL, JOHANN, a Reformer before the Reformation, born at Gröningen; was a man of powerful
intellect; taught in the schools, and was called by his disciples Lux Mundi (1420-1489).

WESSEX, a territory in the SW. of England, inhabited by Saxons who landed at Southampton in
514, known as the West Saxons, and who gradually extended their dominion over territory beyond
it till, under Egbert, their king, they became supreme over the other kingdoms of the Heptarchy.

WEST, BENJAMIN, painter, born near Springfield, Pennsylvania, of Quaker parentage; was self-taught,
painted portraits at the age of 16, went to Italy in 1760, and produced such work there that
he was elected member of several of the Italian academies; visited England on his way back
to America in 1763, where he attracted the attention of George III., who patronised him, for
whom he painted a goodly number of pictures to adorn Windsor Castle; he remained in England
40 years, painting hundreds of pictures, and was in 1792 elected President of the Royal Academy
in succession to Sir Joshua Reynolds; among his paintings were "The Death of General Wolfe,"
"Edward III. at Crécy," and "The Black Prince at Poitiers" (1738-1817).

WEST AFRICA, name given to the region SW. of the Sahara, consisting of low lands with high
lands behind, and through the valleys of which rivers flow down, and including Senegambia,
Upper Guinea, and Lower Guinea, the coast of which is occupied by trading stations belonging
to the French, the English, the Germans, the Belgians, and the Portuguese, and who are severally
forcing their way into the inland territory connected with their several stations.

WEST AUSTRALIA (161), the largest of the Australian colonies, though least populous, formerly
called the Swan River Settlement, 1500 m. long and 1000 m. broad, and embracing an area nearly
equal to one-third of the whole Australian continent; great part of it, particularly in the
centre, is desert, and the best soil is in the W. and NE.; emigration to it proceeded slowly
at first, but for the last 20 years it has been steadily increasing, especially since the discovery
of gold, and it is now opening up; in 1890 it received a constitution and became self-governing
like the other possessions of Great Britain in Australia; Perth, on the Swan River, is the
capital, and the chief exports are wool and gold.

WEST BROMWICH (59), a manufacturing town of the "Black Country," in Staffordshire, 5 m. NW.
of Birmingham; has important industries connected with the manufacture of iron ware; is of
modern growth, and has developed rapidly.

WEST INDIES (3,000), an archipelago of islands extending in a curve between North and South
America from Florida on the one side to the delta of the Orinoco on the other, in sight of
each other almost all the way, and constituting the summits of a sunken range of mountains
which run in a line parallel to the ranges of North America; they are divided into the Great
Antilles (including Cuba, Hayti, Jamaica, and Porto Rico), the Lesser Antilles (including the
Leeward and the Windward Isles), and the Bahamas; lie all, except the last, within the Torrid
Zone, and embrace unitedly an area larger than that of Great Britain; they yield all manner
of tropical produce, and export sugar, coffee, tobacco, cotton, spices, &c.; except Cuba, HAYTI
(q. v.), and Porto Rico, they belong to the Powers of Europe--Great Britain, France, Holland,
and Denmark, and till lately Spain. The name Indies was applied to them because when Columbus
first discovered them he believed he was close upon India, as he calculated he would find he
was by sailing west.

WEST POINT, an old fortress, the seat of the United States Military Academy, on the right bank
of the Hudson River, 12 m. N. of New York; the Academy is on a plateau 188 ft. above the road;
it was established in 1802 for training in the science and practice of military engineering,
and the cadets are organised into a battalion of four companies officered from among themselves,
all under strictest discipline.

WEST VIRGINIA. See VIRGINIA.

WESTCOTT, BROOK FOSS, biblical scholar, born near Birmingham; studied at Trinity College, Cambridge,
and obtained a Fellowship; took orders in 1851, and became Bishop of Durham in 1890; edited
along with Dr. Hort an edition of the Greek New Testament, the labour of years, and published
a number of works bearing on the New Testament and its structure and teachings; b. 1825.

WESTKAPPEL DYKE, one of the strongest dykes in the Netherlands; protects the W. coast of Walcheren;
is 4000 yards long, and surmounted by a railway line.

WESTMACOTT, SIR RICHARD, sculptor, born in London; studied at Rome under Canova; acquired great
repute as an artist on his return to England, and succeeded Flaxman as professor of Sculpture
in the Royal Academy; he executed statues of Pitt, Addison, and others, and a number of monuments
in Westminster Abbey and St. Paul's; his latest work was the sculptured pediment of the British
Museum (1775-1856).

WESTMACOTT, RICHARD, sculptor and writer on art, born in London, son of preceding; was distinguished
for the grace, simplicity, and purity of his style as an artist; succeeded his father as professor
of Sculpture in the Royal Academy, and wrote a "Handbook of Sculpture" (1799-1872).

WESTMEATH (71), an inland county in Leinster, Ireland; is mostly level and gently undulating;
the soil in many parts is good, but little cultivated; the only cereal crop raised is oats,
but the herbage it yields supplies food for fattening cattle, which is a chief industry.

WESTMINSTER, a city of Middlesex, on the N. bank of the Thames, and comprising a great part
of the West End of London; originally a village, it was raised to the rank of a city when it
became the seat of a bishop in 1451, but it was as the seat of the abbey that it developed
into a bishop's see; the abbey, for which it is so famous, was erected as it now exists at
the same period, during 1245-72, on the site of one founded by Edward the Confessor during
1045-65; in Westminster Parliaments were held as early as the 13th century, and it is as the
seat of the legislative and legal authority of the country that it figures most in modern times,
though the most interesting chapters in its history are connected with the abbey round which
it sprang up. See Dean Stanley's "Memorials of Westminster."

WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY OF DIVINES, a convocation of divines assembled under authority of Parliament,
at which delegates from England and Scotland adopted the SOLEMN LEAGUE AND COVENANT (q. v.),
fixed the establishment of the Presbyterian form of Church government in the three kingdoms,
drew up the "Confession of Faith," the "Directory of Public Worship," and the Larger and Shorter
Catechisms; it held its first meeting on 1st July 1643, and did not break up till 22nd February
1649.

WESTMINSTER HALL, a structure attached to the Houses of Parliament at Westminster, built by
King William Rufus, and roofed and remodelled by Richard II.; was the scene of the trials of
Wallace, Sir Thomas More, Strafford, Charles I., Warren Hastings, and others, as well as the
installation of Cromwell as Lord Protector, and till 1883 the seat of the High Courts of Justice;
is a place of great historic interest; has a roof composed of 13 great timber beams, and one
of the largest in the world to be unsupported.

WESTMORLAND (i. e. westmoorland) (60), a northern county of England, 32 m. from N. to S. and
40 m. from E. to W.; is in the Lake District, and mountainous, with tracts of fertile land
and forest land, as well as rich pasture lands.

WESTON-SUPER-MARE (15), a watering-place in Somersetshire, on the Bristol Channel, looking
across it towards Wales.

WESTPHALIA, a German duchy, now a Prussian province; made with other territories in 1807 into
a kingdom by Napoleon for his brother Jerome, and designed to be the centre of the Confederation
of the Rhine; was assigned to Prussia in 1813 according to the Treaty of Vienna.

WETSTEIN, JOHANN JACOB, biblical scholar, born at Basel; was devoted to the study of the New
Testament text; published a Greek Testament with his emendations and "Prolegomena" connected
therewith; his emendations, one in particular, brought his orthodoxy under suspicion for a
time (1693-1754).

WETTE, DE. See DE WETTE.

WETTER, LAKE, one of the largest lakes in Sweden, 70 m. long, 13 m. broad, and 270 ft. above
the sea-level; its clear blue waters are fed by hidden springs, it rises and falls periodically,
and is sometimes subject to sudden agitations during a calm.

WETTERHORN (i. e. peak of tempests), a high mountain of the Bernese Oberland, with three peaks
each a little over 12,000 ft. in height.

WEXFORD (111), a maritime county in Leinster, Ireland; is an agricultural county, and exports
large quantities of dairy produce; has a capital (11) of the same name, a seaport at the mouth
of the river Slaney.

WEYDEN, ROGER VAN DER, Flemish painter, born at Tourney; was trained in the school of Van Eyck,
whose style he contributed to spread; his most famous work, a "Descent from the Cross," now
in Madrid (1400-1464).

WEYMOUTH (13), a market-town and watering-place in Dorsetshire, 8 m. S. of Dorchester; has
a fine beach and an esplanade over a mile in length; it came into repute from the frequent
visits of George III.

WHARTON, PHILIP, DUKE OF, an able man, but unprincipled, who led a life of extravagance; professed
loyalty to the existing government in England; intrigued with the Stuarts, and was convicted
of high-treason, and died in Spain in a miserable condition (1698-1731).

WHATELY, RICHARD, archbishop of Dublin, born in London; studied at Oriel College, Oxford, of
which he became a Fellow, and had Arnold, Keble, Newman, Pusey, and other eminent men as contemporaries;
was a man of liberal views and sympathies, and much regarded for his sagacity and his skill
in dialectics; his post as archbishop was no enviable one; is best known by his "Logic," for
a time the standard work of the subject; he opposed the Tractarian movement, but was too latitudinarian
for the evangelical party (1787-1863).

WHEATSTONE, SIR CHARLES, celebrated physicist and electrician, born near Gloucester; was a
man of much native ingenuity, and gave early proof of it; was appointed professor of Experimental
Philosophy in King's College, London, and distinguished himself by his inventions in connection
with telegraphy; the stereoscope was of his invention (1802-1875).

WHEEL, BREAKING ON THE, a very barbarous mode of inflicting death at one time, in which the
limbs of the victim were stretched along the spokes of a wheel, and the wheel being turned
rapidly round, the limbs were broken by repeated blows from an iron bar; this is what the French
roué means, applied figuratively to a person broken with dissipation, or what we call a rake.

WHEELING (39), largest city in West Virginia, U.S., on the Ohio River, 67 m. SW. of Pittsburg;
contains some fine buildings; is a country rich in bituminous coal; has extensive manufactures;
is a great railway centre, and carries on an extensive trade.

WHEWELL, WILLIAM, professor of the "science of things in general," born at Lancaster, son of
a joiner; studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, of which he became successively fellow, tutor,
professor, and master; was a man of varied attainments, of great intellectual and even physical
power, and it was of him Sydney Smith said, "Science was his forte and omniscience his foible";
wrote "Astronomy and General Physics in reference to Natural Theology," the "Philosophy of
the Inductive Sciences," the "History of Moral Philosophy," an essay on the "Plurality of Worlds,"
&c. (1794-1866).

WHICHCOTE, BENJAMIN, Cambridge Platonist, born in Shropshire; was a Fellow and Tutor of Emmanuel
College; was distinguished for his personal influence over his pupils, many of them eminent
men; he gave a philosophical turn to their theological opinions (1609-1683).

WHIGS, name given at the end of the 17th century to the Covenanters of Scotland, and afterwards
extended to the Liberal party in England from the leniency with which they were disposed to
treat the whole Nonconformist body, to which the persecuted Scottish zealots were of kin; they
respected the constitution, and sought only to reform abuses.

WHISTLER, JAMES ABBOT M'NEILL, painter and etcher, born at Lowell, Massachusetts; studied military
engineering at WEST POINT (q. v.), and art at Paris, and settled at length as an artist in
London, where he has exhibited his paintings frequently; has executed some famous portraits,
in especial one of his mother, and a remarkable one of Thomas Carlyle, now the property of
Glasgow Corporation; paintings of his exhibited in the Grosvenor Gallery, London, provoked
a criticism from Ruskin, which was accounted libellous, and as plaintiff he got a farthing
damages, without costs; very much, it is understood, to his critic's disgust, and little to
his own satisfaction, as is evident from the character of the pamphlet he wrote afterwards
in retaliation, entitled "Whistler versus Ruskin: Art and Art Critics"; b. 1834.

WHISTON, WILLIAM, divine and mathematician, born in Leicestershire; educated at Clare College,
Cambridge, of which he became a Fellow; gained reputation from his "Theory of the Earth"; succeeded
Sir Isaac Newton as Lucasian professor, but was discharged from the office and expelled from
the university for Arianism; removed to London, where he lived a separatist from the Church,
and died a Baptist; wrote "Primitive Christianity," and translated "Josephus"; he was a crotchety
but a conscientious man (1667-1752).

WHITBY, a seaport and famous bathing-place in the North Riding of Yorkshire, 54½ m. NE. of
York; is situated at the mouth of the Esk, and looks N. over the German Ocean; it consists
of an old fishing town sloping upwards, and a fashionable new town above and behind it, with
the ruins of an abbey; Captain Cook was a 'prentice here, and it was in Whitby-built ships,
"the best and stoutest bottoms in England," that he circumnavigated the globe.

WHITBY, DANIEL, English divine, born in Northamptonshire; became rector of St. Edmunds, Salisbury;
involved himself in ecclesiastical controversy first with the Catholics, then with the High
Church party, and got into trouble; had one of his books burned at Oxford; his most important
work "Paraphrase and Commentary on the New Testament"; died an Arian (1638-1726).

WHITE, ALEXANDER, a Scottish divine, born in Kirriemuir, of humble parentage; a man of deep
religious sympathies and fervid zeal, with an interest before all in spiritual things; studied
the arts in Aberdeen and theology in Edinburgh, in the latter of which cities he ministers
to a large attached flock; is the author of books, originally for most part addresses, calculated
to awaken in others an interest in divine things akin to his own; b. 1837.

WHITE, SIR GEORGE STEWART, English general, has had a brilliant career; entered the army in
1853; won the Victoria Cross twice over; served in the Mutiny, in the Afghan Campaign (1879-1880),
in the Nile Expedition (1885), in the Burmese War (1885-1887), and was made Commander-in-Chief
in India in 1893, Quartermaster-General in 1898, and is now distinguishing himself by his generalship
and heroism in the South African War; b. 1835.

WHITE, GILBERT, English naturalist, born in the village of Selborne, Hants; educated at Oriel
College, Oxford, in which he obtained a Fellowship, which he retained all his life; became
curate of Selborne, and passed an uneventful life studying the habits of the animals around
him, where he "had not only no great men to look on, but not even men, only sparrows and cockchafers;
yet has he left us a 'Biography' of these, which, under the title of 'Natural History of Selborne,'
still remains valuable to us, which has copied a little sentence or two faithfully from the
inspired volume of Nature, and so," adds Carlyle, "is itself not without inspiration" (1720-1793).

WHITE, HENRY KIRKE, minor poet, born at Nottingham; published a book of poems in 1803, which
procured him the patronage of Southey; got a sizarship in St. John's, Cambridge; through over-zeal
in study undermined his constitution and died of consumption, Southey editing his "Remains"
(1785-1806).

WHITE, JOSEPH BLANCO, man of letters of an unstable creed, born in Seville, of Irish parentage;
first ordained a priest; left the Catholic Church, and took orders in the Church of England;
left the English, became a Unitarian, and settled to miscellaneous literary work; left an autobiography
which reveals an honest quest of light, but to the last in doubt; he lives in literature by
a sonnet "Night and Death" (1775-1841).

WHITE HORSE, name given to the figure of a horse on a hill-side, formed by removing the turf,
and showing the white chalk beneath; the most famous is one at Uffington, in Berkshire, alleged
to commemorate a victory of King Alfred.

WHITE HOUSE, name popularly given to the official residence of the President of the United
States, being a building of freestone painted white.

WHITE LADY, a lady dressed in white fabled in popular mediæval legend to appear by day as well
as at night in a house before the death of some member of the family; was regarded as the ghost
of some deceased ancestress.

WHITE MOUNTAINS, a range of mountains in Maine and New Hampshire, U.S., forming part of the
Appalachian system; much frequented by tourists on account of the scenery, which has won for
it the name of the "Switzerland of America"; Mount Washington, one of the hills, has a hotel
on the summit approached by a railway.

WHITE NILE, one of the two streams forming the Nile, which flows out of the Albert Nyanza,
and which unites with the Blue Nile from Abyssinia near Khartoum.

WHITE SEA, a large inlet of the Arctic Ocean, in the N. of Russia, which is entered by a long
channel and branches inward into three bays; it is of little service for navigation, being
blocked with ice all the year except in June, July, and August, and even when open encumbered
with floating ice, and often enveloped in mists at the same time.

WHITEBOYS, a secret Irish organisation that at the beginning of George III.'s reign asserted
their grievances by perpetrating agrarian outrages; so called from the white smocks the members
wore in their nightly raids.

WHITEFIELD, GEORGE, founder of Calvinistic Methodism, born at Gloucester; was an associate
of WESLEY (q. v.) at Oxford, and afterwards as preacher of Methodism both in this country and
America, commanding crowded audiences wherever he went, and creating, in Scotland particularly,
a deep religious awakening, but who separated from Wesley on the matter of election; died near
Boston, U.S. (1714-1770).

WHITEHAVEN (18), a seaport of Cumberland, 38 m. SW. of Carlisle, with coal and hematite iron
mines in the neighbourhood; has blast-furnaces, iron-works, and manufactures of various kinds,
with a considerable coasting traffic.

WHITELOCKE, BULSTRODE, a statesman of the Commonwealth, born in London; studied law at the
Middle Temple: sat in the Long Parliament, and was moderate in his zeal for the popular side;
at the Restoration his name was included in the Act of Oblivion, but he took no part afterwards
in public affairs; left "Memorials" of historical value (1605-1675).

WHITGIFT, JOHN, archbishop of Canterbury, born at Great Grimsby; was educated at Cambridge,
and became Fellow and Master of Pembroke College; escaped persecution under Queen Mary, and
on the accession of Elizabeth was ordained a priest; after a succession of preferments, both
as a theologian and an ecclesiastic, became archbishop in 1583; attended Queen Elizabeth on
her deathbed, and crowned James I.; was an Anglican prelate to the backbone, and specially
zealous against the Puritans; contemplated, with no small apprehension, the accession of James,
"in terror of a Scotch mist coming down on him with this new Majesty from the land of Knox,
or Nox, Chaos, and Company"; his last words were, with uplifted hands and eyes, a prayer for
the Church, uttered in King James's hearing (1530-1604).

WHITHORN, a small town in Wigtownshire, 12 m. S. of Wigtown, celebrated as the spot where St.
Ninian planted Christianity in Scotland, and founded a church to St. Martin in 397.

WHITMAN, WALT, the poet of "Democracy," born in Long Island, U.S., of parents of mingled English
and Dutch blood; was a large-minded, warm-hearted man, who led a restless life, and had more
in him than he had training to unfold either in speech or act; a man eager, had he known how,
to do service in the cause of his much-loved mankind; wrote "Leaves of Grass," "Drum-Taps,"
and "Two Rivulets" (1819-1892).

WHITNEY, ELI, an American inventor, born in Massachusetts; invented the cotton-gin, a machine
for cleaning seed-cotton, and became a manufacturer of firearms, by which he realised a large
fortune (1765-1825).

WHITNEY, WILLIAM DWIGHT, American philologist, born in Massachusetts; studied at Yale College,
where he became professor of Sanskrit, in which he was a proficient, and to the study of which
he largely contributed; has done much for the science of language (1827-1894).

WHITSUNDAY, the seventh Sunday after Easter, a festival day of the Church kept in commemoration
of the descent of the Holy Ghost.

WHITTIER, JOHN GREENLEAF, the American "Quaker Poet," born at Haverhill, in Massachusetts,
the son of a poor farmer; wrought, like Burns, at field work, and acquired a loving sympathy
with Nature, natural people, and natural scenes; took to journalism at length, and became a
keen abolitionist and the poet-laureate of abolition; his poems are few and fugitive (1807-1893).

WHITTINGTON, SIR RICHARD, Lord Mayor of London, born at Pauntley, Gloucestershire; came to
London, prospered in business, was elected Lord Mayor thrice over, and knighted; this is the
Whittington of the nursery tale, "Dick Whittington and his Cat" (1538-1623).

WHITWORTH, SIR JOSEPH, eminent mechanician, born at Stockport; the rival of Lord Armstrong
in the invention of ordnance; invented artillery of great range and accuracy; was made a baronet
in 1869 (1803-1887).

WHYTE-MELVILLE, GEORGE JOHN, novelist of the sporting-field, born at Mount Melville, near St.
Andrews; entered the army, and for a time served in it; met his death while hunting (1821-1878).

WICK (8), county-town of Caithness, on Wick River, 161 m. NE. of Inverness, is the chief seat
of the herring fishery in Scotland; Wick proper, with its suburbs Louisburgh and Boathaven,
is on the N. of the river, and Pultneytown on the S.; has a few manufactures, with distilleries
and breweries.

WICKED BIBLE, an edition of the Bible with the word not omitted from the Seventh Commandment,
for issuing which in 1632 the printers were fined and the impression destroyed.

WICKLOW (61), a maritime county, with a capital of the name in Leinster, Ireland; is in great
part mountainous and barren; has mines and quarries, and some fertile parts.

WICLIFFE, JOHN, or WYCLIF, the "Morning Star of the Reformation," born at Hipswell, near Richmond,
Yorkshire; studied at Oxford, and became Master of Balliol in 1361, professor of Divinity in
1372, and rector of Lutterworth in 1375; here he laboured and preached with such faithfulness
that the Church grew alarmed, and persecution set in, which happily, however, proved scatheless,
and only the more emboldened him in the work of reform which he had taken up; and of that work
the greatest was his translation of the Bible from the Vulgate into the mother-tongue, at which,
with assistance from his disciples, he laboured for some 10 or 15 years, and which was finished
in 1380; he may be said to have died in harness, for he was struck with paralysis while standing
before the altar at Lutterworth on 29th December 1384, and died the last day of the year; his
remains were exhumed and burned afterwards, and the ashes thrown into the river Swift close
by the town, "and thence borne," says Andrew Fuller, "into the main ocean, the emblem of his
doctrine, which now is dispersed all the world over" (1325-1384).

WIDDIN (14), a town on the right bank of the Danube, Bulgaria; is a centre of industry and
trade; was a strong place, but by decree of the Berlin Congress in 1879 the fortress was demolished.

WIELAND, CHRISTOPH MARTIN, eminent German littérateur, born near Biberach, a small village
in Swabia, son of a pastor of the pietist school; studied at Tübingen; became professor of
Philosophy at Erfurt, and settled in Weimar in 1772 as tutor to the two sons of the Duchess
Amalia, where he by-and-by formed a friendship with Goethe and the other members of the literary
coterie who afterwards settled there; he wrote in an easy and graceful style, and his best
work is a heroic poem entitled "Oberon" (1733-1813).

WIELICZKA (6), a town in Austrian Galicia, near Cracow, famous for its salt mines, which have
been wrought continuously since 1250, the galleries of which extend to more than 50 m. in length,
and the annual output of which is over 50,000 tons.

WIER, JOHANN, physician, born in North Brabant; was distinguished as the first to attack the
belief in witchcraft, and the barbarous treatment to which suspects were subjected; the attack
was treated as profane, and provoked the hostility of the clergy, and it would have cost him
his life if he had not been protected by Wilhelm IV., Duke of Jülich and Clèves, whose physician
he was (1516-1566).

WIERTZ, ANTOINE, a Belgian painter, born at Dinant, did a great variety of pictures on a variety
of subjects, some of them on a large scale, and all in evidence of a high ideal of his profession,
and an original genius for art (1806-1865).

WIESBADEN (65), capital of Hesse-Nassau, a famous German watering-place, abounding in hot springs,
5 m. NW. of Mainz; has a number of fine buildings and fine parade grounds, picture-gallery,
museum, and large library; is one of the best-frequented spas in Europe, and is annually visited
by 60,000 tourists or invalids; it was famed for its springs among the old Romans.

WIFE OF BATH, one of the pilgrims in Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales."

WIGAN (55), a town in Lancashire, 18 m. NW. of Manchester, in the centre of a large coal-field;
cottons are the staple manufactures; is a place of ancient date, and has some fine buildings.

WIGHT, ISLE OF, an island in the S. of England, included in Hampshire, from which it is separated
by the channel of the SOLENT (q. v.); it is of triangular shape, is 23 m. of utmost length,
and about 14 m. of utmost breadth; it is traversed by a range of chalk downs from E. to W.;
the soil is fertile, especially in the E.; the scenery rich and varied, and the climate charming;
Newport is the capital in the centre; near Cowes is Osborne House, the summer residence of
Queen Victoria.

WIGTOWNSHIRE (36), the most southerly county in Scotland, in the SW. of which the largest town
is Stranraer, and the county town Wigtown; it is an agricultural county, and largely pastoral.

WILBERFORCE, SAMUEL, English prelate, born at Clapham, third son of the succeeding; entered
Oriel College, Oxford, at 18, where he distinguished himself by his powers of debate; took
holy orders, and rose to eminence in the Church; was made Bishop of Oxford in 1845, and of
Winchester in 1869; was a High Churchman of the pure Anglican type, and equally opposed to
Romanism and Nonconformity; shone in society by his wit and powers of conversation; Carlyle
often "exchanged pleasant dialogues with him, found him dexterous, stout and clever, far from
being a bad man"; "I do not hate him," he said to Froude one day, "near so much as I fear I
ought to do"; he found him "really of a religious nature," and secretly in sympathy with himself
on religious matters; was killed by a fall from his horse; he was popularly known by the sobriquet
of "Soapy Sam" (1805-1873).

WILBERFORCE, WILLIAM, eminent philanthropist, born at Hull, son of a wealthy merchant; attended
St. John's College, Cambridge, at 17; represented his native town in Parliament as soon as
he was of age; he was early and deeply impressed with the inhumanity of the slave-trade, and
to achieve its abolition became the ruling passion of his life; with that object he introduced
a bill for its suppression in 1789, but it was not till 1801 he carried the Commons with him,
and he had to wait six years longer before the House of Lords supported his measure and the
Emancipation Act was passed; he retired into private life in 1825, and died three days after
the vote of 20 millions to purchase the freedom of the West Indian slaves; he was an eminently
religious man of the Evangelical school; wrote "Practical View of Christianity" (1759-1833).

WILD, JONATHAN, an English villain, who for housebreaking was executed in 1725, and the hero
of Fielding's novel of the name; he had been a detective; was hanged amid execration on the
part of the mob at his execution.

WILDERNESS, a district covered with brushwood in Virginia, U.S., the scene of a two days' terrible
conflict between the Federals and the Confederates on the 5th and 6th May 1864.

WILDFIRE, MADGE, a character in the "Heart of Midlothian," who, being seduced, had, in her
misery under a sense of her crime, gone crazy.

WILFRID, ST., a Saxon bishop of York, born in Northumbria; brought up at Lindisfarne; had a
checkered life of it; is celebrated in legend for his success in converting pagans, and is
usually represented in the act; d. 709.

WILHELMINA I., queen of the Netherlands, daughter of William III., and who ascended the throne
on his decease in November 1890; her mother, a sister of the Duchess of Albany, acted as regent
during her minority, and she became of age on the 11th August 1898, when she was installed
as sovereign amid the enthusiasm of her people; b. 1880.

WILHELMSHAVEN (13), the chief naval port of Germany, on Jahde Bay, 43 m. NW. of Bremen.

WILKES, CHARLES, American naval officer; made explorations in the Southern Ocean in 1861; boarded
on the high seas the British mail-steamer Trent, and carried off two Confederate commissioners
accredited to France, who were afterwards released on the demand of the British Government
(1798-1877).

WILKES, JOHN, a notable figure in the English political world of the 18th century, born in
Clerkenwell, son of a distiller; was elected M.P. for Aylesbury in 1761; started a periodical
called the North Briton, in No. 45 of which he published an offensive libel, which led to his
arrest and imprisonment in the Tower, from which he was released--on the ground that the general
warrant on which he was apprehended was illegal--amid general rejoicing among the people; he
was afterwards prosecuted for an obscene production, an "Essay on Women," and outlawed for
non-appearance; he sought an asylum in France, and on his return was elected for Middlesex,
but instead of being allowed to sit was committed to prison; this treatment made him the object
of popular favour; he was elected Lord Mayor of London, re-elected for Middlesex, and at length
allowed to take his seat in the House; he was for years the cause of popular tumults, the watchword
of which was "Wilkes and Liberty"; the cause of civil liberty certainly owes something to him
and to the popular agitations which an interest in him stirred up (1727-1797).

WILKIE, SIR DAVID, painter, born at Cults, Fife; executed a great many pictures depicting homely
subjects, which were very popular, and are generally well known by the engravings of them,
such as the "Rent Day," "The Penny Wedding," "Reading the Will," &c., which were followed by
others in a more ambitious style, and less appreciated, as well as portraits (1785-1841).

WILKINS, JOHN, bishop of Chester, born in Northamptonshire; married Oliver Cromwell's sister;
wrote mathematical treatises, a curious one in particular, "Discovery of a New World," and
was one of the founders of the Royal Society (1614-1672).

WILKINSON, SIR JOHN, Egyptologist, born In Westmorland; studied at Oxford; explored the antiquities
of Egypt, and wrote largely on the subject (1797-1875).

WILL, FREEDOM OF THE, the doctrine that in and under the dominion of pure reason the will is
free, and not free otherwise; that in this element the Will "reigns unquestioned and by Divine
right"; only in minds in which volition is treated as a synonym of Desire does this doctrine
admit of debate.

WILLEMS, JAN FRANS, Dutch poet and scholar, born near Antwerp; translated "Reynard the Fox"
into Flemish, and did much to encourage the Flemings to preserve and cultivate their mother-tongue
(1793-1846).

WILLIAM I., THE CONQUEROR, king of England, born at Falaise; became Duke of Normandy by the
death of his father; being an illegitimate son had to establish his power with the sword; being
the cousin of Edward the Confessor was nominated by him his successor to the English throne,
which being usurped by Harold, he invaded England and defeated Harold at Senlac in 1066 and
assumed the royal power, which he established over the length and breadth of the country in
1068; he rewarded his followers with grants of land and lordships over them, subject to the
crown; the DOOMSDAY BOOK (q. v.) was compiled by his order, and the kingdom brought into closer
relation with the Church of Rome, his adviser in Church matters being LANFRANC, ARCHBISHOP
OF CANTERBURY (q. v.); died by a fall from his horse when suppressing rebellion in Normandy,
and was buried at Caen. His invasion of England is known as the Norman Conquest, and it involved
the introduction of the feudal system and Norman manners in the habits and speech of the English
people (1027-1087).

WILLIAM II., king of England, surnamed Rufus or Ruddy, born in Normandy, third son of William
I.; succeeded his father in 1087; had to face a rebellion, headed by Bishop Odo, in favour
of his eldest brother, Robert, Duke of Normandy, which he suppressed by favour of the mass
of the people, to whom he made promises which he did not keep, for he proved a stern and exacting
ruler; his energy was great, but was frequently spasmodic; he added Normandy to his dominion
by compact with Robert, who went on Crusade, compelled Malcolm of Scotland to do homage for
his kingdom, conducted several campaigns against the Welsh, and had a long-continued wrangle
with Archbishop Anselm, virtually in defence of the royal prerogative against the claims of
the Church, for a humorous account of the meaning of which see Carlyle's "Past and Present,"
Book iv. chap. i.; he was accidentally shot while hunting in the New Forest by Walter Tirel,
and buried in Winchester Cathedral, but without any religious service; in his reign the Crusades
began, and Westminster Hall was built (1066-1100).

WILLIAM III., king of England, born at The Hague, son of William II., Prince of Orange, by
Mary, the daughter of Charles I.; during a contest on the part of the United Provinces with
Louis XIV. was, in 1672, elected Stadtholder, and by his valour and wisdom brought the war
to an end in 1678; married his cousin Mary, daughter of James II.; being invited to England,
landed with a large army at Torbay, and on the flight of James to France, he and Mary were
proclaimed king and queen of Great Britain and Ireland in 1689; the Scotch and the Irish offered
resistance in the interest of the exiled monarch, but the former were defeated at Killiecrankie
in 1689, and the latter at the battle of the Boyne in 1690; he was an able man and ruler, but
his reign was troubled by an interminable feud with France, and by intrigues on behalf of James
both at home and abroad; he died by a fall from his horse at Kensington just as a great war
with France was impending; he was through life the adversary of the covetous schemes of Louis,
and before his death he had prepared the materials of that coalition which, under Marlborough
and Prince Eugene, brought Louis to the brink of ruin; his reign forms one of the great epochs
in the history of England, and is known as the Revolution (1650-1702).

WILLIAM IV., king of England, known as the "sailor king," born in Buckingham Palace, the third
son of George III.; entered the navy in 1779; saw service under Rodney and Nelson, but practically
retired in 1789, as from insubordination he had to do, though he was afterwards promoted to
be Admiral of the Fleet, and even Lord High Admiral, and continued to take great interest in
naval affairs; after living, as Duke of Clarence, from 1792 to 1816 with Mrs. Jordan, the actress,
by whom he had 10 children, he married in 1810 Adelaide, eldest daughter of the Duke of Saxe-Meiningen;
on the death of the Duke of York in 1827 became heir-presumptive, and on the death of George
IV. in 1830 succeeded to the throne; his reign was distinguished by the passing of the first
Reform Bill in 1832, the abolition of slavery in the colonies in 1833, the reform of the poor-laws
in 1834, and the Municipal Reform Act in 1835; died at Windsor, and was succeeded by his niece.
Queen Victoria (1765-1837).

WILLIAM I., emperor of Germany, born at Berlin, second son of Frederick William III. of Prussia,
and brother of Frederick William IV., his predecessor on the Prussian throne; was bred from
boyhood to military life, having received his first commission at the age of 10; took part
in the war of liberation that preceded the fall of Napoleon, and received his baptism of fire
on 14th February 1814; visited England in 1844, and again in 1848, and returned prepossessed
in favour of constitutional government, which he found the king had already conceded in his
absence; in 1858 he was appointed regent owing to his brother's incapacity, and on 2nd February
1861 he succeeded to the throne, having previously made the acquaintance of Moltke in 1818
and of Bismarck in 1834; on his accession, while professing all due respect to the representatives
of the people, he announced his intention to maintain to the uttermost all his rights as king,
and this gave rise to a threat of insurrection, but a war with Denmark, which issued in the
recovery of the German duchies of Sleswick-Holstein, led to an outburst of loyalty, and this
was deepened by the publication of the project of Bismarck to unite all Germany under the crown
of Prussia; this provoked a war with Austria, which lasted only seven weeks, and ended with
the consent of the latter to the projected unification of the other States, and the establishment
of a confederation of these under the headship of the Prussian king, a unification which was
consolidated into an Imperial one at the close of the Franco-German War, when, on the 18th
January 1871, the Prussian king was proclaimed emperor of Germany in the palace of Versailles;
the reign which followed was a peaceful one, and the pledge of peace to the rest of Europe;
the emperor was a man of robust frame, of imposing figure, of temperate habits, of firm purpose,
conspicuous courage, and devoted with his whole heart to the welfare of his people (1797-1888).

WILLIAM II., emperor of Germany, born at Berlin, grandson of the preceding, and son of Frederick
III., whom he succeeded as emperor in 1888; was trained from early boyhood for kinghood, and
on his accession to the throne gave evidence of the excellent schooling he had received to
equip him for the high post he was called to fill; he showed that the old Hohenzollern blood
still flowed in his veins, and that he was minded to be every inch a king; one of the first
acts of his reign was to compel the resignation of Bismarck, as it was his intention to reign
alone; that he has proved himself equal to his task events since have fully justified, and
it is hoped it will be seen that his influence on public affairs will lead to the advantage
of the German people and the peace of the world; he is by his mother the grandson of Queen
Victoria, and the relationship is full of promise for the union throughout the world of the
Teutonic peoples, who have already achieved so much for the good of the race; b. 1859.

WILLIAM THE LION, king of Scotland, grandson of David I., and brother of Malcolm IV., whom
he succeeded in 1165, and whose surname is supposed to have been derived from his substitution
of the lion for the dragon on the arms of Scotland; was taken captive when invading England
at Alnwick Castle in 1174; sent prisoner to Falaise, in Normandy, but liberated on acknowledgment
of vassalage to the English king, a claim which Richard I. surrendered on payment by the Scots
of 10,000 marks to aid him in the Crusade; was the first king of Scotland to form an alliance
with France; died at Stirling after a reign of 49 years (1143-1214).

WILLIAM THE SILENT, Prince of Orange, a cadet of the noble house of Nassau, the first Stadtholder
of the Netherlands, a Protestant by birth; he was brought up a Catholic, but being at heart
more a patriot than a Catholic, he took up arms in the cause of his country's freedom, and
did not rest till he had virtually freed it from the Spanish yoke, which was then the dominant
Catholic power; his enemies procured his assassination in the end, and he was murdered by Belthazar
Gerard, at Delft; he was brought up at the court of Charles V., where "his circumspect demeanour
procured him the surname of Silent, but under the cold exterior he concealed a busy, far-sighted
intellect, and a generous, upright, daring heart" (1533-1584).

WILLIAMS, ISAAC, Tractarian, born in Wales; educated at Oxford; got acquainted with Keble;
wrote religious poetry and Tract LXXX. on "Reserve in Religious Teaching" (1802-1865).

WILLIAMS, JOHN, missionary and martyr, born near London; brought up an ironmonger; offered
his services to the London Missionary Society; was sent out in 1816 to the Society Islands;
laboured with conspicuous success among the natives; came home in 1834, and after four years
returned, but was murdered at Erromango in the New Hebrides, and his body eaten by the cannibals
(1796-1839).

WILLIAMS, SIR MONIER MONIER-, Sanskrit scholar, born at Bombay; appointed Boden professor of
Sanskrit at Oxford, 1860; author of a Sanskrit Grammar and Lexicon, and projected the founding
of the Indian Institute; b. 1819.

WILLIAMS, ROGER, founder of the State of Rhode Island, U.S., born in Wales; being a Puritan,
fled the country to escape persecution, and settled in New England, where he hoped to enjoy
the religious freedom he was denied at home, but was received with disfavour by the earlier
settlers as, from his extreme views, a "troubler of Israel," and obliged to separate himself
and establish a colony of his own, which he did at Providence by favour of an Indian tribe
he had made friends of, and under a charter from the Long Parliament of England, obtained through
Sir Henry Vane, where he extended to others the toleration he desired for himself; he was characterised
by Milton, who knew him, as "that noble champion of religious liberty" (1600-1683).

WILLIAMS, ROWLAND, English clergyman, born in Flintshire; was a prominent member of the Broad
Church party; was condemned, though the judgment was reversed, by the Court of Arches, for
a paper contributed to the famous "Essays and Reviews"; wrote "Rational Godliness," "Christianity
and Hinduism," &c. (1817-1870).

WILLIBROD, ST., the "Apostle of the Frisians," born in Northumbria; was the chief of a company
of 12 monks who went as missionaries from Ireland to Friesland, where they were welcomed by
Pépin d'Héristal, and afterwards favoured by his son, Charles Martel; he founded an abbey near
Trèves; when he was about to baptize the Duke of Friesland, it is said the duke turned away
when he was told his ancestors were in hell, saying he would rather be with them there than
in heaven without them (658-739).

WILLIS, PARKER, American writer and journalist; had travelled much abroad, and published his
experiences; among his writings "Pencillings by the Way," "Inklings of Adventure," "People
I have Met," &c. (1806-1867)

WILLOUGHBY, SIR HUGH, early Arctic voyager; was sent out in 1553 with three vessels by a company
of London merchants on a voyage of discovery, but the vessels were separated by a storm in
the North Seas, and not one of them returned, only Richard Challoner, the captain of one of
them, found his way to Moscow, and opened up a trade with Russia and this country; the ships,
with the dead bodies of their crews, and the journal of their commander, were found by some
fishermen the year after.

WILLS, WILLIAM JOHN, Australian explorer, born at Totnes; accompanied O'Hara Burke from the
extreme S. to the extreme N. of the continent, but died from starvation on the return journey
two days before his leader (1834-1860).

WILMINGTON (61), a large and handsome city and port in Delaware, 25 m. SW. of Philadelphia,
with extensive manufactures; also the name of the largest city (20) in North Carolina, with
considerable manufactures and trade; was a chief Confederate port during the Civil War.

WILSON, ALEXANDER, ornithologist, born at Paisley; son of a weaver, bred to the loom; began
his literary career as a poet; imprisoned for a lampoon on a Paisley notability, went on his
release to America unfriended, with only his fowling-piece in his hand, and a few shillings
in his pocket; led an unsettled life for a time; acquired the arts of drawing, colouring, and
etching, and, so accomplished, commenced his studies on the ornithology of America, and prevailed
upon a publisher in Philadelphia to undertake an exhaustive work which he engaged to produce
on the subject; the first volume appeared in 1808, and the seventh in 1813, on the publication
of which he met his death from a cold he caught from swimming a river in pursuit of a certain
rare bird (1766-1813).

WILSON, SIR DANIEL, archæologist, was born in Edinburgh, became in 1853 professor of English
Literature at Toronto; wrote "Memorials of Edinburgh," "Prehistoric Annals of Scotland," "Prehistoric
Man," &c. (1816-1892).

WILSON, SIR ERASMUS, English surgeon, a great authority on skin diseases, and devoted much
time to the study of Egyptian antiquities; it was at his instance that the famous Cleopatra's
Needle was brought to England; he was liberal in endowments for the advance of medical science
(1809-1884).

WILSON, GEORGE, chemist, born in Edinburgh, younger brother of Sir Daniel; was appointed professor
of Technology in Edinburgh University; was eminent as a popular lecturer on science, and an
enthusiast in whatever subject he took up (1819-1859).

WILSON, HORACE HAYMAN, Orientalist, born in London; studied medicine; went to India as a surgeon;
mastered Sanskrit, and became Boden professor at Oxford (1786-1860).

WILSON, JOHN, Indian missionary, born near Lauder, educated at Edinburgh; missionary at Bombay
from 1828 to his death--from 1843 in connection with the Free Church of Scotland; from his
knowledge of the languages and religions of India, and his sagacity, was held in high regard
(1804-1875). (1785-1854).

WILTON, market-town in Wiltshire, 3 m. NW. of Salisbury; was the ancient capital of Wessex,
and gave name to the county; its church, erected by Lord Herbert of Lea in 1844, is a rich
Lombardic structure, with a campanile 108 ft. high.

WILTSHIRE or WILTS (264), an inland county in SW. of England, with Gloucestershire on the N.
and Dorset on the S., 54 m. from N. to S. and 37 m. from E. to W.; is largely an agricultural
and pastoral county; is flat, rising into hills in the N., and is broken by downs and rich
valleys in the S., except on Salisbury Plain; sheep-breeding and dairy-farming are the chief
industries, and it is famous for cheese and bacon.

WIMBLEDON (25), a suburb of London, 7½ m. to the SW., on a common used by the volunteers from
1860 to 1889 for rifle practice.

WINCHESTER (19), an ancient city of Hampshire, and the county town, 60 m. SW. of London, on
the right bank of the Itchen; is a cathedral city, with a noted large public school; was at
one time the capital of England; the cathedral dates from the 11th century, but it has subsequently
undergone considerable extensions and alterations; the school was founded by William of Wykeham
in 1387.

WINCKELMANN, JOHANN JOACHIM, great art critic, born at Stendal, in Prussian Saxony, of poor
parents; was a student from his boyhood, and early devoted especially to archæology and the
study of the antique; became a Roman Catholic on the promise of an appointment in Rome, where
he would have full scope to indulge his predilections, and became librarian to Cardinal Albani
there; his great work was "Geschichte der Kunst des Alterthums" (the "History of Ancient Art"),
in particular that of Greece, which proved epoch-making, and the beginning of a new era in
the study of art in general; he was assassinated in a hotel at Trieste on his way to Vienna
by a fellow-traveller to whom he had shown some of his valuables, and the German world was
shocked (1717-1768).

WINDERMERE, a lake on the borders of Westmorland and Lancashire, the largest in England, 10½
m. long from N. to S., and 1 m. broad; is 240 ft. deep and 134 ft. above sea-level; is amid
beautiful scenery, and near it is Rydal Mount, long the residence of Wordsworth.

WINDHAM, WILLIAM, English statesman, born of an ancient Norfolk family; was opposed to the
American War; took part in the impeachment of Warren Hastings; was Secretary at War under Pitt;
advocated the removal of Catholic disabilities, but was opposed to Parliamentary reform; has
been described by his contemporaries as the model both physically and mentally of an English
gentleman, able and high minded (1780-1810).

WINDISCHGRÄTZ, PRINCE, Austrian field-marshal; took part in the campaigns against Napoleon,
and in 1848 suppressed the revolution at Prague and Vienna; failed against the Hungarians,
and was superseded (1787-1862).

WINDSOR (12), a town in Berkshire, on the right bank of the Thames, opposite Eton, and about
22 m. W. of London, with a castle which from early Plantagenet times has been the principal
residence of the kings of England.

WINDWARD ISLANDS (150), a group of the West Indies, the Lesser Antilles, belonging to Britain,
extending from Martinique to Trinidad.

WINDWARD PASSAGE, a channel leading into the Caribbean Sea, between the islands of Cuba and Hayti.

WINER, GEORGE BENEDICT, New Testament scholar, born at Leipzig, and professor there; best known
for his work on the New Testament Greek idioms (1789-1858).

WINIFRED, ST., a British maiden who was decapitated by Prince Caradoc in 650; where her head
rolled off tradition says a spring instantly gushed forth, the famous Holywell in Flintshire;
is represented in art carrying her head.

WINKELRIED, ARNOLD VON, a brave Swiss who, on the field of Sempach, on 9th June 1386, rushed
on the lances of the opposing Austrians, and so opened a way for his compatriots to dash through
and win the day.

WINKLE. See RIP VAN WINKLE.

WINNIPEG (25), formerly Fort Garry, the capital of Manitoba, at the junction of the Assiniboine
with the Red River, over 1400 m. NW. of Montreal; is a well-built town, with several public
buildings and all modern appliances; stands on the Pacific Railway; is a busy trading centre,
and is growing rapidly.

WINNIPEG, LAKE, a lake in Manitoba, 40 m. N. of the city, 280 m. long, 57 m. broad, and covering
an area of over 8000 sq. m.; it drains an area twice as large as France; the Saskatchewan flows
into it, and the Nelson flows out.

WINSTANLEY, HENRY, English engineer; erected a lighthouse on the Eddystone Rock in 1696, and
completed it in four years; it was built of timber, and had not much strength; he perished
in it in a storm in 1703.

WINT, PETER DE, water-colourist, born in Staffordshire, of Dutch descent; famed for paintings
of English scenery and rustic life (1784-1849).

WINTER KING, name given by the Germans to Frederick V., husband of Elizabeth, daughter of James
I., his Winter Queen, who was elected king of Bohemia by the Protestants in 1619, and compelled
to resign in 1620.

WINTHROP, JOHN, "Father of Massachusetts," born in Suffolk; studied at Trinity College; headed
a Puritan colony from Yarmouth to Salem, and was governor of the settlement at Boston till
his death; was a pious and tolerant man; left a "Journal" (1581-1649).

WISCONSIN (1,686), one of the Central States of North America, nearly as large as England and
Wales, and situated between Lake Superior and Michigan; the surface is chiefly of rolling prairie,
and the soil fertile; yields cereals, sugar, hops, hemp, and large quantities of lumber from
the forests; lead, iron, copper, and silver are among its mineral resources; it abounds in
beautiful lakes; the Wisconsin and the Chippewa are the chief rivers, tributaries of the Mississippi;
and Madison (the capital), Milwaukee, and La Crosse are the chief towns.

WISDOM OF JESUS. See ECCLESIASTICUS.

WISDOM OF SOLOMON, one of the most beautiful books in the Apocrypha, written at the close of
the 2nd century B.C. by one who knew both the Greek language and Greek philosophy, to commend
the superiority to this philosophy of the divine wisdom revealed to the Jews. Its general aim,
as has been said, is "to show, alike from philosophy and history, as against the materialists
of the time, that the proper goal of life was not mere existence, however long, or pleasure
of any sort, but something nobly intellectual and moral, and that the pious Israelite was on
the surest path to its attainment."

WISEMAN, NICHOLAS, cardinal and Roman Catholic Archbishop of Westminster, born at Seville,
of Irish parents; studied at a Roman Catholic college near Durham and the English college at
Rome, of which he became rector; lectured in London in 1836 on the Doctrines of the Catholic
Church, and in 1840 became vicar-apostolic, first in the central district of England, then
of the London district in 1846, and was in 1850 named Archbishop of Westminster by the Pope;
this was known in England as the "papal aggression," which raised a storm of opposition in
the country, but this storm Wiseman, now cardinal, succeeded very considerably in allaying
by a native courtesy of manner which commended him to the regard of the intelligent and educated
classes of the community; he was a scholarly man, and a vigorous writer and orator (1802-1865).

WISHART, GEORGE, a Scottish martyr, born in Forfarshire; began life as a schoolmaster; was
charged with heresy for teaching the Greek New Testament; left the country and spent some time
on the Continent; on his return boldly professed and preached the Reformation doctrines, and
had the celebrated John Knox, who was tutor in the district, for a disciple among others; he
was arrested in Haddingtonshire in January and burned at St. Andrews in March 1546; Knox would
fain have accompanied him on his arrest, but was paternally dissuaded by the gentle martyr;
"Go home to your bairns" (pupils), said he; "ane is sufficient for a sacrifice."

WISMAR (15), a seaport of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, on the Baltic; has a number of quaint old buildings,
various manufactures, and an active trade.

WITCH OF ENDOR, a divining woman consulted by King Saul, who affected to call up the spirit
of Samuel, who foretold his defeat and doom.

WITENAGEMOT (assembly of the wise), name given to the national council or Parliament of England
in Anglo-Saxon times, agreeably to whose decisions the affairs of the kingdom were managed;
it consisted of the bishops, royal vassals, and thanes.

WITHER, GEORGE, poet, born at Arlesford, in Hampshire, and educated at Magdalen College, Oxford;
was imprisoned for his first poem, a satire, "Abuses Stript and Whipt," in 1613; his subsequent
productions betray true poetic inspiration, and special passages in them are much admired;
he was a religious poet, and is much belauded by Charles Lamb; in the Civil War he espoused
the Puritan side, and in his zeal in its behalf raised a troop of horse (1588-1667).

WITHERSPOON, JOHN, Scottish theologian, born at Tester; was minister at Paisley; became president
of the college at New Jersey, U.S.; died at Princeton; wrote "Ecclesiastic Characteristics"
against the Moderates, also on justification and regeneration (1722-1794).

WITSIUS, HERMANN, Dutch theologian; became professor at Leyden; wrote on what are in old orthodox
theology called the "Covenants," of which there were reckoned two, one of works, under the
Mosaic system, and the other of grace, under the Christian (1636-1708).

WITTEKIND, leader of the Saxon struggle against Charlemagne; annihilated the Frankish army
in 783, in retaliation for which Charlemagne executed 4500 Saxons he had taken prisoners, which
roused the entire Saxon people to arms, and led to a drawn battle at Detmold, upon which Wittekind
accepted baptism, and was promoted to a dukedom by the Frankish king; he fell in battle with
Gerold, a Swabian duke, in 807.

WITTENBERG (13), a town in Prussian Saxony, on the right bank of the Elbe, 50 m. SW. of Berlin;
was the capital of the electorate of Saxony, and a stronghold of the Reformers; is famous in
the history of Luther, and contains his tomb; it was on the door of the Schlosskirche of which
he nailed his famous 95 theses, and at the Elster Gate of which he burned the Pope's bull,
"the people looking on and shouting, all Europe looking on."

WIZARD OF THE NORTH, name given to Sir Walter Scott, from the magic power displayed in his
writings.

WODEN, the German and Anglo-Saxon name for ODIN (q. v.).

WODROW, ROBERT, Scottish Church historian, born at Glasgow; studied at the University, became
librarian, and settled as minister at Eastwood, Renfrewshire; was diligent with his pen; left
50 volumes of MSS., only one of which was published in his lifetime, "History of the Sufferings
of the Church of Scotland from the Restoration to the Revolution," the rest having been in
part published by several antiquarian societies since (1679-1734).

WOFFINGTON, PEG, actress, born in Dublin, where she made her first appearance in 1737, and
in London at Covent Garden in 1740, in a style which carried all hearts by storm; she was equally
charming in certain male characters as in female; her character was not without reproach, but
she had not a little of that charity which covereth a multitude of sins, in the practice of
which, after her retirement in 1757, she ended her days (1720-1768).

WOIWODE, name at one time of an elective prince among the Slavs, originally one chosen in some
emergency; superseded by Hospodar in 1716.

WOKING (9), a small town in Surrey, 24 m. SW. of London; contains a large cemetery with crematorium
near it, and not far off is Bisley Common, with shooting-butts for practice by the Volunteers.

WOLCOT, JOHN, better known by his pseudonym Peter Pindar, born in Devonshire; bred to and practised
medicine; took orders, and held office in the Church; took eventually to writing satires and
lampoons, which spared no one, and could not be bribed into silence; was blind for some years
before he died (1738-1819).

WOLF, FRIEDRICH AUGUST, great classical scholar, born near Nordhausen; studied at Göttingen;
was professor of Philology at Halle; became world-famous for his theory of the Homeric poems;
he maintains, in his "Prolegomena ad Homerum," that the "Iliad" and the "Odyssey" were originally
a body of independent ballads handed down by oral tradition, and gradually collected into two
groups, which finally appeared each as one, bearing the name of Homer, who, he allows, was
probably the first to attempt to weave them severally into one; the "Prolegomena" was published
in 1735, and its appearance caused a wide-spread sensation, and gave rise to a controversy
which maintains itself to the present time (1759-1824).

WOLFE, CHARLES, author of the "Burial of Sir John Moore," born in Dublin; became an Irish clergyman;
died of consumption (1791-1823).

WOLFE, JAMES, major-general, born in Kent, son of a lieutenant-general, who served under Marlborough;
was present at the battles of Dettingen, Fontenoy, Falkirk, and Culloden, and served in the
expedition against Rochefort, which it was believed proved disastrous because his counsel was
not followed; this circumstance attracted the attention of Pitt, who appointed him a command
in Canada; here he distinguished himself first at the siege of Louisburg, and then by the capture
of Quebec, where he fell at the moment of victory; he lived to hear the cry "They run," and
eagerly asked "Who run?" and being told the French, exclaimed, "I thank God, and die contented"
(1727-1759).

WOLFENBÜTTEL (13), an old town in Brunswick, 7 m. S. of Brunswick; contains an old building,
now rebuilt, being a library of vast extent and rich in MSS.; has various manufactures.

WOLFF, JOHANN CHRISTIAN VON, German philosopher and mathematician, born at Breslau; was appointed
professor at Halle in 1707, but was in 1723 not only removed from his chair, but banished from
Prussia by Frederick William on account of his opinions, which, as fatalistic, were deemed
socially demoralising, but was recalled by Frederick the Great on his accession, and afterwards
promoted to the rank of baron of the empire; he was a disciple of Leibnitz, and the father
of the philosophy that prevailed in Germany before the time of Kant; his merits as a philosopher
were threefold: he claimed for philosophy the entire field of knowledge, he paid special attention
to method in philosophical speculation, and he first taught philosophy to express itself in
German, or made German the philosophical language (1679-1754).

WOLLASTON, WILLIAM, ethical and theological writer, born near Stafford; wrote "Religion of
Nature," a rationalistic work written in an optimistic spirit (1659-1724).

WOLLASTON, WILLIAM HYDE, physicist and chemist, born in Norfolk, grandson of preceding; made
extensive discoveries in chemistry and optics; invented the camera lucida and the goniometer.

WOLLSTONECRAFT, MARY. See GODWIN.

WOLSELEY, GARNET JOSEPH, LORD, field-marshal, born in co. Dublin, of a Staffordshire family;
entered the army in 1852; served in the Burmese War of 1852-1853, in the Crimean War, where
he was severely wounded, in the Chinese War of 1860, and afterwards in Canada; commanded in
the Ashantee War in 1878, and received the thanks of Parliament, with a grant of £25,000, for
"courage, energy, and perseverance" in the conduct of it, and after services in Natal, Egypt,
and Ireland was made field-marshal in 1894, and commander-in-chief in 1895; b. 1833.

WOLSEY, THOMAS, cardinal, born at Ipswich, son of a well-to-do grazier and wool-merchant; educated
at Magdalen College, Oxford; entered the Church early; gained the favour of Henry VII., and
was promoted by him for his services to the deanery of Lincoln; this was the first of a series
of preferments at the hands of royalty, which secured him one bishopric after another until
his revenue accruing therefrom equalled that of the crown itself, which he spent partly in
display of his rank and partly in acts of munificence; of his acts of munificence the founding
of Christ Church College in the interest of learning was one, and the presentation of Hampton
Court Palace, which he had built, to the king, was another; it was in the reign of Henry VIII.
that he rose to power, and to him especially he owed his honours; it was for his services to
him he obtained the chancellorship of the kingdom, and at his suit that he obtained the cardinal's
hat and other favours from the Pope; this, though not the height of his ambition, was the limit
of it, for he soon learned how frail a reed is a prince's favour; he refused to sanction his
master's marriage with Anne Boleyn, and was driven from power and bereft of all his possessions;
finally, though restored to the see of York, he was arrested on a charge of treason, took ill
on the way to London, and died at Leicester, with the words on his lips, "Had I but served
God as I have served the king, He would not have forsaken me in my grey hairs" (1471-1530).

WOLVERHAMPTON (82), a town in Staffordshire, 12½ m. NW. of Birmingham, in the midst of coal
and iron fields; the centre of a group of towns engaged in different kinds of iron manufacture,
locks and keys the staple, and the metropolis of the Black Country.

WOMAN'S RIGHTS, claims on the part and in the behalf of women to a status in society which
will entitle them to the legal and social privileges of men.

WOOD, SIR ANDREW, Scottish admiral, born in Largo, Fife; was distinguished and successful in
several naval engagements, chiefly in the Forth, against the English in the reigns of James
III. and James IV.; received for his services the honour of knighthood and the village and
lands of Largo in fee; was an eccentric old admiral; is said to have had a canal cut from his
house to the church, and to have sailed thither in his barge every Sunday; d. 1540.

WOOD, ANTHONY, antiquary, born at Oxford, and educated at Merton College, Oxford; was a gentleman
of independent means; wrote "History and Antiquities of Oxford University," which appeared
in 1674, and "Athenæ Oxonienses," which appeared in 1691, being an exact history of all the
writers and bishops educated at Oxford from 1500 to 1690 (1632-1695).

WOOD, SIR EVELYN, soldier, born in Essex; served in the Indian Mutiny War, and received the
V.C., also in the Ashanti, in the Zulu, in the Transvaal (1880-1881) Wars, and in Egypt in
1882; b. 1838.

WOOD, MRS. HENRY (née Price), novelist, born in Worcestershire; her best novels "The Channings"
and "Mrs. Halliburton's Troubles," though her most popular "East Lynne"; she wrote some thirty,
all popular, and deservedly so (1820-1887).

WOODEN HORSE, a gigantic horse of wood, within which Greek warriors were concealed, and which
the Trojans were persuaded to admit into their city, to its ruin, on the pretext that it was
an offering by the Greeks to Pallas, to atone for their abstraction of her image from the citadel.

WOODSTOCK, a small market-town on the Glyme, 8 m. NW. of Oxford, once a royal manor, near which
is BLENHEIM PARK (q. v.).

WOOLNER, THOMAS, English sculptor, born at Hadleigh, in Suffolk; sympathised with the Pre-Raphaelite
movement; did a number of statues (one of Bacon for Oxford), busts of famous contemporaries--Carlyle,
Darwin, Tennyson, &c.--and ideal works, such as Elaine, Ophelia, Guinevere, &c.; was a poet
as well as a sculptor (1826-1892).

WOOLSACK, the seat of the Lord Chancellor in the House of Lords, as Speaker of the House, being
a large square cushion of wool covered with red cloth, without either back or arms.

WOOLSTON, THOMAS, an eccentric semi-deistical writer, born at Northampton, who maintained a
lifelong polemic against the literal truth of the Bible, and insisted that the miraculous element
in it must be allegorically interpreted, with such obstinacy that he was in the end subjected
to imprisonment as a blasphemer, from which he was never released, because he refused to recant
(1669-1731).

WOOLWICH (40), a town in Kent, on the S. bank of the Thames, 9 m. below London; is the chief
military arsenal in the country; contains a gun factory, ammunition factory, laboratory, &c.,
which employ 12,000 men, besides barracks for artillery, engineers, &c., covering an area 4
m. in circumference.

WORCESTER (42), the county town of Worcestershire, on the left bank of the Severn, 26 m. SE.
of Birmingham; a very ancient place, and a handsome city, with a noble old Gothic cathedral;
is famous for its blue porcelain ware and other industries, particularly glove-making; was
the scene in 1651 of Cromwell's victory over the Royalists, which he called his "crowning mercy."

WORCESTER (118), the second city of Massachusetts, U.S., a place of busy industry, and with
a flourishing trade.

WORCESTER, MARQUIS OF, inventor of the steam-engine, born probably in the Strand; early gave
himself to mechanical studies; was an ardent Royalist; negotiated with the Irish Catholics
on behalf of the king; was discovered and imprisoned on a charge of treason, but his release
being procured by the king, he spent some time in exile; on his return he was again imprisoned
and then released; wrote an account of inventions amounting to a hundred, "A Century of Inventions"
as he called it, one of which he described as "an admirable and most forcible way of driving
up water by fire" (1601-1667).

WORCESTERSHIRE, an agricultural and pastoral county in the valley of the Severn, the N. part
of which is the Black Country, rich in coal and iron mines, with Dudley for capital, and the
SW. occupied by the Malvern Hills, while the S. is famous for its orchards and hop-gardens;
it has also extensive manufactures at Worcester, Kidderminster, Stourbridge, and Redditch.

WORD, THE, or LOGOS, the name given by St. John to God as existing from the beginning as in
the fulness of time He manifested Himself in Christ, or as at first what He revealed Himself
at last.

WORDSWORTH, CHARLES, bishop of St. Andrews, born in Lambeth, studied at Christ Church, Oxford;
was private tutor to Gladstone and Manning, Warden of Glenalmond College, Perthshire, and made
bishop in 1852; was a student of Shakespeare, and distinguished as a prelate for his zeal for
Church union in Scotland; he was a nephew of the poet (1805-1892).

WORDSWORTH, WILLIAM, poet, born at Cockermouth, of a Yorkshire stock; educated at Hawkshead
Grammar School and at St. John's College, Cambridge; travelled in France at the Revolution
period, and was smitten with the Republican fever, which however soon spent itself; established
himself in the S. of England, and fell in with Coleridge, and visited Germany in company with
him, and on his return settled in the Lake Country; married Mary Hutchinson, who had been a
school-fellow of his, and to whom he was attached when a boy, and received a lucrative sinecure
appointment as distributor of stamps in the district, took up his residence first at Grasmere
and finally at Rydal Mount, devoting his life in best of the Muses, as he deemed, to the composition
of poetry, with all faith in himself, and slowly but surely bringing round his admirers to
the same conclusion; he began his career in literature by publishing along with Coleridge "Lyrical
Ballads"; finished his "Prelude" in 1806, and produced his "Excursion" in 1814, after which,
from his home at Rydal Mount, there issued a long succession of miscellaneous pieces; he succeeded
Southey as poet-laureate in 1843; he is emphatically the poet of external nature and of its
all-inspiring power, and it is as such his admirers regard him; Carlyle compares his muse to
"an honest rustic fiddle, good and well handled, but wanting two or more of the strings, and
not capable of much"; to judge of Wordsworth's merits as a poet the student is referred to
Matthew Arnold's "Selections" (1770-1850).

WORLD, THE, the name applied in the New Testament to the collective body of those who reject
and oppose the spirit of Christ, who practically affirm what He denies, and practically deny
what He affirms, or turn His Yea into Nay, and His Nay into Yea.

WORMS (25), an old German town in Hesse-Darmstadt, in a fertile plain on the left bank of the
Rhine, 40 m. SE. of Mainz, with a massive Romanesque cathedral having two domes and four towers;
it was here the Diet of the empire was held under Charles V., and before which Martin Luther
appeared on 17th April 1521, standing alone in his defence on the rock of Scripture, and deferentially
declining to recant: "Here stand I; I can do no other; so help me God."

WORSAAE, JANS JACOB, eminent Danish archæologist, born in Jutland; has written on the antiquities
of the North, specially in a Scandinavian reference (1821-1885).

WORTHING (16), a fashionable watering-place on the Sussex coast, 10½ m. SW. of Brighton; has
a mild climate, fine sands, and a long wide parade.

WOTTON, SIR HENRY, diplomatist and scholar, born in Kent; was ambassador of James I. for 20
years, chiefly at Venice; visited Kepler (q. v.) on one occasion, and found him a very "ingenious
person," and came under temporary eclipse for his definition of an ambassador, "An honest man
sent to lie abroad for the good of his country"; was ultimately provost of Eton, and was a
friend of many good men, among others Isaac Walton, who wrote his Life; he wished to be remembered
as the author of the saying, "The itch of controversy is the scab (scabies) of the Churches,"
and caused it to be insculpt in his epitaph (1568-1630).

WOUVERMANS, PHILIP, Dutch painter, born at Haarlem, where he lived and died; painted small
landscapes, hunting pieces, and battle pieces, from which the picture-dealers profited, while
he lived and died poor; had two brothers, whose pictures are, though inferior, often mistaken
for his (1619-1668).

WRANGEL, FREDERICK, Prussian field-marshal, born at Stettin; served with distinction in various
campaigns, and commanded in the Danish War of 1864, and was present in the Austro-Prussian
War of 1866, though without command; was known as Papa Wrangel among the Berliners, who loved
him for his disregard of grammar (1784-1877).

WRANGLER, name given in Cambridge University to those who have attained the first rank in mathematics,
pure and applied, the one who heads the list being known as the Senior Wrangler.

WREDE, PHILIP, field-marshal and prince, born in Heidelberg; served as a Bavarian general against
Austria as the ally of Napoleon at Wagram, and also in the expedition against Russia in 1812,
on which occasion he covered the retreat of the French army to the loss of nearly all the cavalry;
fought against the French at Hanau; was defeated, but was afterwards successful on French soil,
and eventually became commander-in-chief of the Bavarian army (1767-1838).

WREN, SIR CHRISTOPHER, architect, born at East Knoyle, in Wiltshire; educated at Westminster
School and Wadham College, Oxford, and became Fellow of All Souls; was early distinguished
in mathematics and for mechanical ingenuity, and soon became notable for his skill in architecture,
and received a commission to restore St. Paul's, London, but on its destruction in 1666 he
was appointed to design and erect an entirely new structure; for this he had prepared himself
by study abroad, and he proceeded to construct a new St. Paul's after the model of St. Peter's
at Rome, a work which, as it occupied him from 1675 to 1710, took him 35 years to finish; he
died at the age of 90, sitting in his chair after dinner, and was buried in the cathedral which
he had erected, with this inscription, "Si monumentum requiris, circumspice" (If you inquire
after his monument, look around); Wren was a man of science as well as an artist; he was at
one time Savilian professor of Astronomy at Oxford, and one of the founders of the Royal Society
(1631-1723).

WREN, MATTHEW, bishop of Ely; was one of the judges of the Star Chamber; assisted in preparing
the liturgy for Scotland, which, when read in St. Giles', Edinburgh, roused the ire of JENNY
GEDDES (q. v.); was impeached, and confined in the Tower for 18 years, and released at the
Restoration (1585-1667).

WREXHAM (12), an important town in Denbighshire, North Wales, 12 m. SW. from Chester, in the
centre of a mining district, and famed for its breweries.

WRIGHT, JOSEPH, painter, usually called "Wright of Derby," from his birthplace and place of
residence nearly all his life; he excelled in portraits, and in the representation of the effects
especially of firelight (1734-1797).

WRIGHT, THOMAS, antiquary, born in Shropshire, but settled in London; wrote or edited a vast
number of works bearing on the antiquities, literary and other, of England, and was connected
with the founding of sundry antiquarian societies (1810-1877).

WRITERS TO THE SIGNET, a body of solicitors in Scotland who had at one time the exclusive privilege
of practising in and drawing up cases for the supreme courts of the country, and whose privileges
are now limited to the preparation of crown writs.

WULSTAN, ST., Saxon bishop of Worcester in the days of Edward the Confessor; being falsely
accused by his adversaries, after the king's death, he was required to resign, but refused,
and laying his crozier on the Confessor's shrine called upon him to decide who should wear
it; none of his accusers could lift it, only himself, to his exculpation from their accusations.

WUNDT, WILHELM MAX, distinguished German physiologist, born in Baden, and professor at Leipzig;
distinguished for his studies on the connection of the physical with the psychical in the human
organisation, and has written on psychology as well as physiology; b. 1832.

WUPPERTHAL, a densely-peopled valley in Germany traversed by the river Wupper, which after
a course of 40 m. enters the right bank of the Rhine between Cologne and Düsseldorf, and which
embraces the towns of Barmen and Elberfeld.

WURMSER, COUNT VON, Austrian general, born in Alsace; took an active part in the war with France;
commanded the respect of Napoleon from his defence of Mantua, on the capitulation of which
he refused to take him prisoner (1721-1797).

WÜRTEMBERG (2,035), a kingdom of South Germany, about one-fourth the size of Scotland, between
Baden on the W. and Bavaria on the E.; the Black Forest extends along the W. of it, and it
is traversed nearly E. and W. by the Swabian Alp, which slopes down on the N. side into the
valley of the Neckar, and on the S. into that of the Danube; the soil is fertile, and is in
great part under cultivation, yielding corn, vines, and fruits, agriculture being the chief
industry of the population; there are only four towns whose inhabitants exceed 20,000, of which
Stuttgart is one, and Ulm, the capital, is the other; the towns are the centres of varied manufactures;
education is of a high standard; and associated with the country is a number of famous names-enough
to mention the names of Kepler, Schiller, Hegel, Schelling, and Strauss; the government is
constitutional, under a hereditary sovereign.

WURTZ, CHARLES ADOLPHE, celebrated French chemist, born at Strasburg (1817-1884).

WÜRZBURG (51), a Bavarian town in a valley of the Main, 70 m. SB. of Frankfort; its principal
buildings are the Royal or Episcopal Palace, the cathedral, and the university, with the Julius
Hospital, called after its founder, Bishop Julius, who was also founder of the university,
which is attended by 1500 students, mostly medical, and has a library of 100,000 volumes; the
fortress of Marienberg, overlooking the town, was till 1720 the episcopal palace.

WUTTKE, KARL, theologian, born at Breslau, professor at Halle; wrote on Christian ethics, stoutly
maintained the incompatibility of Christianity with democracy, that a Christian could not be
a democrat or a democrat a Christian (1819-1870).

WYANDOTS, a tribe of North American Indians of the Iroquois stock; were nearly exterminated
in 1636, but a feeble remnant of them now occupy a small district in the Indian Territory.

WYATT, RICHARD, sculptor, born in London; studied in Home under Canova, and had Gibson for
fellow-student; a man of classical tastes, and produced a number of exquisitely-modelled, especially
female, figures (1795-1850).

WYATT, SIR THOMAS, English poet, courtier, and statesman, born at Allington Castle, in Kent,
and educated at St. John's College, Cambridge; was a welcome presence at court, a friend of
Anne Boleyn, in high favour with the king, and knighted in 1537; did a good deal of diplomatic
work in Spain and the Netherlands, and died on his way to meet the Spanish ambassador and convoy
him to London; he had travelled in Italy, had studied the lyric poets of Italy, especially
Petrarch, and, along with Surrey, imported their sentiment into English verse, "amourist poetry,"
as it has been called, "a poetry extremely personal, and personal as English poetry had scarcely
ever been before" (1503-1542).

WYATT, SIR THOMAS, the younger, only son of the preceding; was leader of the rebellion that
broke out in 1554 in consequence of the settlement of the marriage between Queen Mary and Philip
of Spain, in which, being repulsed at Temple Bar, he surrendered, was committed to the Tower,
and for which he was executed, Lady Jane Grey and her husband following to the same doom shortly
after (1520-1554).

WYCHERLEY, WILLIAM, dramatist, born in Shropshire, of good birth, and resided for a time in
Paris, being admitted to the circle of the Précieuses, but returned to England at the Restoration,
and became a figure at the court; his plays were marked with the coarseness of the time, and
his best were "The Country Wife" (1675) and the "Plain Dealer" (1677); married the Countess
of Drogheda for her fortune, a legacy which cost him only lawsuits and imprisonment for debt;
succeeded to his paternal estate when he was an old man; married again, and died immediately
after (1640-1715).

WYCLIFFE, JOHN. See Wicliffe.

WYCOMBE, HIGH (13), a market-town in Buckinghamshire, on the Wye, 25 m. SE. of Oxford; has
a parish church built in the Norman style in 1273 and restored in 1887, and several public
buildings; the manufacture of chairs, lace, and straw-plait among the leading industries.

WYE, a lovely winding river in South Wales, which rises near the source of the Severn on Plinlimmon,
and falls into its estuary at Chepstow, 125 m. from its head; rapid in its course at first,
it becomes gentler as it gathers volume; barges ascend it as far as Hereford, but a high tidal
wave makes navigation dangerous at its mouth.

WYKEHAM, WILLIAM OF, bishop of Winchester, born in Hampshire of humble parentage; was patronised
by the governor of Winchester Castle and introduced by him to Edward III., who employed him
to superintend the rebuilding of Windsor Castle, and by-and-by made him Privy Seal and Lord
Chancellor, though he fell into disgrace towards the close of Edward's reign; was restored
to favour in Richard II.'s reign and once more made Chancellor; in his later years he founded
the New College, Oxford, built and endowed St. Mary's College, Winchester, and rebuilt the
cathedral there. He was less of a theologian than an architect; was disparagingly spoken of
by John Wickliffe as a "builder of castles," and his favourite motto was, "Manners make the
man"; (1324-1404).

WYNNAD, a highland district in the Western Ghâts, Madras Presidency, with extensive coffee
plantations, and a wide distribution of auriferous quartz rock, the working of which has been
on an extravagant scale, and has involved the loss of much capital.

WYNTOUN, ANDREW OF, Scottish chronicler; lived at the end of the 14th and beginning of the
15th centuries; was canon regular of St. Andrews and prior of St. Serf, Lochleven; the subject
of his "Original Chronicle," as he calls it, was Scottish history, introduced by foreign from
the creation downwards, and it was written in verse that can hardly be called poetry; it is
of value historically and interesting philologically, and consists of nine books or cantos;
it is to him we owe "When Alexander our King was dead."

WYOMING (60), a North-West State of the American Union, chiefly on the eastern slope of the
Rocky Mountains, an elevated region about three times the area of Ireland and a comparatively
sparse population, settled principally along the line of the Union Pacific Railway; it has
a very rugged surface, and abounds in deep cañons and frowning precipices, the lakes also are
deep, and there are immense geysers, one, the Great Geyser, throwing up a volume of water 300
ft. high; it is rich in minerals, yields good crops of various grains, rears large herds of
horses and cattle, as well as game on its moors, and trout and salmon in its rivers. See YELLOWSTONE
PARK.

WYOMING VALLEY, a fertile valley in Pennsylvania, on the Susquehanna River, 20 m. long by 5
broad; it was the scene of a series of contests between rival settlers, when the last of them
were set upon by an invading force, forced to surrender, and either massacred or driven forth
from the valley; Campbell's "Gertrude of Wyoming" relates to this last disaster.

WYSS, JOHANN RUDOLF, Swiss littérateur, born at Bern, professor of Philosophy there; the author
of the "Swiss Family Robinson," on which alone his title to fame rests (1781-1830).

WYVERN, a heraldic device in shape of a dragon with expanded wings, with only two legs and
the pointed tail of a scorpion.

X

XANTHUS, principal city in ancient Lycia, on a river of the same name, celebrated for its temples
and works of art; sustained two sieges, the last of which terminated in the self-destruction
of its inhabitants; ruins of it exist, and are Cyclopean; also the name of a river in the Troad,
called also the Scamander.

XANTIPPE, the name of the wife of Socrates, a woman of a peevish and shrewish disposition,
the subject of exaggerated gossip in Athens, to the exaltation of the temper of her husband,
which it never ruffled. She is quaintly described by an old English writer as "a passing shrewde,
curste, and wayward woman, wife to the pacient and wise philosopher Socrates."

XAVIER, ST. FRANCIS, a Jesuit missionary, styled usually the "Apostle of the Indies," born,
of a noble family, in the north of Spain; a student of Sainte Barbe in Paris, he took to philosophy,
became acquainted with Ignatius Loyola, and was associated with him in the formation of the
Jesuit Society; was sent in 1541, under sanction of the Pope, by John III. of Portugal to Christianise
India, and arrived at Goa in 1542, from whence he extended his missionary labours to the Eastern
Archipelago, Ceylon, and Japan, in which enterprises they were attended with signal success;
on his return to Goa in 1552 he proceeded to organise a mission to China, in which he experienced
such opposition and so many difficulties that on his way to carry on his work there he sickened
and died; he was buried at Goa; beatified by Paul V. in 1619, and canonised by Gregory XV.
in 1622 (1506-1552).

XEBEC, a small three-masted vessel with lateen and square sails, used formerly in the Mediterranean
by the Algerine pirates, and mounted with guns.

XENIEN, the name, derived from Martial, of a series of stinging epigrams issued at one time
by Goethe and Schiller, which created a great sensation and gave offence to many, causing "the
solemn empire of dulness to quake from end to end."

XENOCRATES, an ancient philosopher and a disciple of Plato, born in Chalcedon, and a successor
of Plato's in the Academy as head of it; d. 314 B.C.

XENOPHANES, the founder of the Eleatic school of philosophy, born in Asia Minor; was the first
to enunciate the doctrine "all is one," but "without specifying," says SCHWEGLER, "whether
this unity was intellectual or moral.... Aristotle says he called God the one." See ELEATICS.

XENOPHON, historian, philosopher, and military commander, born at Athens, son of an Athenian
of good position; was a pupil and friend of Socrates; joined the expedition of Cyrus against
his brother Artaxerxes, and on the failure of it conducted the ten thousand Greeks--"the Retreat
of the Ten Thousand"--who went up with him back to the Bosphorus, served afterwards in several
military adventures, brought himself under the ban of his fellow-citizens in Athens, and retired
to Elis, where he spent 20 years of his life in the pursuits of country life and in the prosecution
of literature; the principal of his literary works, which it appears have all come down to
us, are the "Anabasis," being an account in seven books of the expedition of Cyrus and his
own conduct of the retreat; the "Memorabilia," in four books, being an account of the life
and teaching and in defence of his master Socrates; the "Helenica," in seven books, being an
account of 49 years of Grecian history in continuation of Thucydides to the battle of Mantinea;
and "Cyropædeia," in eight books, being an ideal account of the education of Cyrus the Elder.
Xenophon wrote pure Greek in a plain, perspicuous, and unaffected style, had an eye to the
practical in his estimate of things, and professed a sincere belief in a divine government
of the world (435-354 B.C.).

XERES (61), a town in Spain, 14 m. NE. of Cadiz, a well-built, busy town, and the centre of
the trade in sherry wine, which takes its name from it, and of which there are large stores.

XERXES, a king of Persia, son of Darius I., whom he succeeded on the throne in 485 B.C.; in
his ambition to subdue Greece, which, after suppressing a revolt in Egypt, he in 481 essayed
to do with an immense horde of men both by sea and land, he with his army crossed the Hellespont
by means of a bridge of boats, was checked for a time at Thermopylæ by Leonidas and his five
hundred, advanced to Athens to see his fleet destroyed at Salamis by Themistocles, fled at
the sight by the way he came, and left Mardonius with 300,000 men to carry out his purpose,
but, as it happened, to suffer defeat on the fatal field of Platæa in 479, and the utter annihilation
of all his hopes; the rest of his life he spent in obscurity, and he was assassinated in 465
by Artabanus, the captain of his bodyguard, after a reign of 20 years.

XESIBELAND, a region in South Africa lying between Griqualand East and Pondoland; was annexed
to Cape Colony in 1886.

XIMENES DE CISNEROS, FRANCISCO, cardinal and statesman, born in Castile, of a poor but noble
family; studied at Salamanca and went to Rome, where he gained favour with the Pope, who appointed
him to the first vacant ecclesiastical preferment in Spain, as the result of which he in 1495
became archbishop of Toledo, but not till he was 60 years of age; in 10 years after this he
became regent of Spain, and conducted the affairs of the kingdom with consummate ability. He
was a severe man, and he was careful to promote what he considered the best and highest interests
of the nation; but he was narrow-minded, and did often more harm than good; he was intolerant
of heresy such as the Church deemed it to be, and contrived by his policy to confer more than
sovereign rights upon the crown. He was to Spain pretty much what Richelieu was to France.

XINGU, a river in Brazil, which rises in the heart of the country, and after a course of 1300
m. falls into the Amazon 210 m. W. of Pará.

XUCAR or JUCAR, a river of Valencia, in Spain, which rises near the source of the Tagus, and
after a course of 317 m. falls diminished into the Mediterranean, most of its water having
been drained off for purposes of irrigation in connection with orange-gardens on its way, gardens
which yield, it is said, 20 millions of oranges a year.

Y

YABLONOI MOUNTAINS, a range of mountains which extend NE. from the Altai chain, and run S.
of Lake Baikal, near the frontier of China, dividing the basin of the Amur from that of the Lena.

YACU-MAMA, a fabulous marine monster, said to haunt the lagoons of the Amazon, and to suck
into its mouth and swallow whatever comes within a hundred yards of it; before bathing in a
lagoon, where he apprehends its presence, the Indian sounds a horn, the effect of which is
to make it reveal itself if it is there.

YAHOO, name of a race of brutes, subject to the Houyhuhnms (q. v.), in "Gulliver's Travels,"
with the form and all the vices of men.

YAJUR-VEDA, one of the books of the VEDAS (q. v.), containing the prescribed formulæ in connection
with sacrifices.

YAKSHA, a species of gnome in the Hindoo mythology.

YAKUTSK (5), a capital town in East Siberia, on a branch of the Lena; occupied chiefly by traders
in furs, hides, &c.; is said to be the coldest town in the world.

YALE UNIVERSITY, a well-equipped university at New Haven, Connecticut, U.S., founded in 1701,
which derives its name from Elihu Yale, a Boston man, and which was given to it in recognition
of his benefactions; it occupies a square in the heart of the city, has a staff of 70 professors,
besides tutors and lecturers, also 1200 students, and a library of 200,000 volumes; the faculties
include arts, medicine, law, theology, fine arts, and music, while the course of study extends
over four years.

YAMA, in the Hindu mythology "a solar hero who rules over the dead; might have lived as an
immortal, but chose to die; was the first to traverse the road from which there is no return,
tracing it for future generations; in the remotest extremity of the heavens, the abode of light
and the eternal waters, he reigns in peace and in union with VARUNA (q. v.); there by the sound
of his flute, under the branches of the mythic tree, he assembles around him the dead who have
lived nobly, they reach him in a crowd, convoyed by AGNI (q. v.), grimly scanned as they pass
by two monstrous dogs that are the guardians of the road."

YAMBO or YAMBU, the port of Medina, in Arabia, on the Red Sea.

YANAON (5), a small patch of territory belonging to France, on the Godavery, enclosed in the
British province of Madras, India.

YANG-TSZE-KIANG, or the Blue, or Great, River, the largest river in China and in the East;
rises in the plateau of Tibet, and after a course of 3200 m., draining and irrigating great
part of China by the way, falls by a wide estuary into the Yellow Sea, terminating near Shanghai;
it has numerous tributaries, some of great length, and is of great value to the country as
a waterway; it is navigable 1000 m. from its mouth, and at Hankow, 700 m. up, is a mile in width.

YANKEE, slang name for a New Englander; applied in England to the citizens of the United States
generally; it is of uncertain derivation.

YAPURA, an affluent of the Amazon, which rises in Columbia; has a course of 1750 m., and is
navigable to steamers for 970 m.

YARKAND (60), the capital or chief city of Eastern Turkestan, 100 m. SE. of Kashgar; is in
the centre of a very fertile district of the vast continental basin of Central Asia, abounding
also in large stores of mineral wealth; it is a great emporium of trade, and the inhabitants
are mostly Mohammedans.

YARMOUTH (49), a seaport, fishing town, and watering-place of Norfolk, 20½ m. E. of Norwich
and some 2 m. above the mouth of the Yare; is the principal seat of the English herring fishery,
and is famous for its herrings, known as bloaters; it has a fine roadstead called Yarmouth
Roads, a safe anchorage for ships, being protected by sandbanks; has a number of public buildings,
in particular a parish church, one of the largest in England, and a fine marine parade.

YARRELL, WILLIAM, naturalist, born at Westminster; wrote "History of British Fishes" and "History
of British Birds" (1784-1856).

YARROW, a famous Scottish stream which rises on the confines of the shires of Peebles, Dumfries,
and Selkirk, passes NE. through the Loch of the Lowes and St. Mary's Loch, and joins the Ettrick
2 m. above Selkirk after a course of 25 m.

YATES, EDMUND, journalist, founded The World newspaper; wrote a supremely interesting "Autobiography"
(1831-1894).

YEDDO. See TOKYO.

YELLOW SEA, or WHANG-HAI, an inlet of the Pacific, on the NE. coast of China, bounded on the
E. by the Corea, including in the NW. the Gulf of Pechili, some 600 m. long, and its average
breadth 300 m.; is very shallow, and gradually silting up owing to the quantity of alluvium
brought down by the rivers which fall into it.

YELLOWSTONE, THE, a river which rises in the NW. of WYOMING (q. v.), and falls into the Missouri
as one of its chief tributaries after a course of 1300 m.

YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, a high-lying tract of land in the State of WYOMING (q. v.) traversed
by the Yellowstone, about the size of Kent, being a square about 75 m. in diameter; is set
apart by Congress as a great pleasure ground in perpetuity for the enjoyment of the people;
it abounds in springs and geysers, and care is taken that it be preserved for the public benefit,
to the exclusion of all private right or liberty.

YEMEN (3,000), a province in the SW. of Arabia, bounded on the N. by Hedjaz, bordering on the
Red Sea, and forming the Arabia Felix of the ancients; about 400 m. in length and 150 m. in
breadth; it is a highly fertile region, and yields tropical and sub-tropical fruits, in particular
coffee, dates, gums, spices, and wheat.

YENIKALE or KERTCH, a strait 20 m. long, connecting the Sea of Azov with the Black Sea.

YENISEI, a river which rises in the mountainous region that borders the plateau of Gobi, its
head-waters collecting in Lake Baikal, and after a course of 3200 m. through the centre of
Siberia, falls by a long estuary or gulf into the Arctic Ocean; it is the highway of a region
rich in both mineral and vegetable products, the traffic on which is encouraged by privileges
and bounties to the trader at the hands of the Russian government.

YENISEISK (8), a town of East Siberia, on the Yenisei, in a province of the name, and a centre
of trade in it.

YEOMANRY, name given to a cavalry volunteer force the members of which provide their own horses
and uniforms, with a small allowance from the Government, which is increased when called out.

YEOMEN, a name given in England to a class of freeholders next in rank to the gentry, and to
certain functionaries in royal households.

YEOMEN OF THE GUARD, a body of old soldiers of soldierly presence, employed on ceremonial occasions
in conjunction with the gentlemen-at-arms, as the bodyguard of the British sovereign; they
were constituted in 1485, and number besides officers 100 men; the Beef-eaters, as they are
called, are the wardens of the Tower, and are a different corps.

YEOVIL (9), a town in Somerset, 4 m. S. of Bristol, is in the centre of an agricultural district,
and the staple industry is glove-making.

YETHOLM, a village of Roxburghshire, 7 m. SE. of Kelso; consists of two parts, Town Yetholm
and Kirk Yetholm, the latter of which has for two centuries been the head-quarters of the gypsies
in Scotland.

YEZD (40), a town in an oasis, surrounded by a desert, in the centre of Persia, 230 m. SE.
of Ispahân; a place of commercial importance; carries on miscellaneous manufactures.

YEZIDEES, a small nation bordering on the Euphrates, whose religion is a mixture of devil worship
and Ideas derived from the Magi, the Mohammedans, and the Christians.

YEZO or YESSO, the northernmost of the four large islands of Japan, is about as large as Ireland;
is traversed from N. to S. by rugged mountains, several of them active volcanoes; is rich in
minerals, and particularly coal; its rivers swarm with salmon, but the climate is severe, and
it is only partially settled.

YGGDRASIL. See IGGDRASIL.

YIDDISH, a kind of mongrel language spoken by foreign Jews in England.

YMIR, a giant in the Norse mythology, slain by the gods, and out of whose carcass they constructed
the world, his blood making the sea, his flesh the land, his bones the rocks, his eyebrows
Asgard, the dwelling-place of the gods, his skull the vault of the firmament, and his brains
the clouds.

YNIOL, an earl of Arthurian legend, the father of Enid, who was ousted from his earldom by
his nephew the "Sparrow-Hawk," but who, when overthrown, was compelled to restore it to him.

YOGA, in the Hindu philosophy a state of soul, emancipation from this life and of union with
the divine, achieved by a life of asceticism and devout meditation; or the system of instruction
or discipline by which it is achieved.

YOGIN, among the Hindus one who has achieved his yoga, over whom nothing perishable has any
longer power, for whom the laws of nature no longer exist, who is emancipated from this life,
so that death even will add nothing to his bliss, it being his final deliverance or Nirvâna,
as the Buddhists would say.

YOKOHAMA (130), principal port of entry of Japan, 18 m. SW. of Tokyo (q. v.), situated in a
spacious bay, the centre of trade with the West and the head-quarters of foreign trade generally;
foreigners are numerous, and the exports include silk, tea, cotton, flax, tobacco, &c.

YOKUBA (150), the largest town in Sokoto, in the Lower Soudan, with a large trade in cotton,
tobacco, and indigo.

YONGE, CHARLOTTE MARY, popular novelist, born at Otterbourne, Hants; has written "Cameos of
History of England," "Landmarks of History," &c.; has edited the Monthly Packet for 30 years;
b. 1823.

YONI, a Hindu symbol of the female principle in nature, and as such an object of worship. See
LINGA.

YONKERS (48), a city of New York, U.S., on the Hudson River. 15 m. N. of New York; has factories
of various kinds, and some beautiful villas occupied by New York merchants.

YONNE (344), a department of the NE. of France, watered by the Yonne, a tributary of the Seine,
with forests and vineyards which yield large quantities of wine.

YORICK, a jester at the court of Denmark, whose skull Hamlet apostrophises in the churchyard;
also a sinister jester in "Tristram Shandy."

YORK (67), the county town of Yorkshire, situated at the confluence of the Foss with the Ouse,
188 m. N. of London and 22 m. NE. of Leeds; is an interesting historic town, the seat of an
archbishop, and a great railway centre; known among the Romans as Eboracum, it was the centre
of the Roman power in the North, relics of which as such still remain; its cathedral, known
as the Minster, is one of the grandest in England; it is built on the site of a church erected
as early as the 7th century, and was finished as it now exists in 1470; it is 524 ft. in length,
and the transepts 250 ft., the breadth of the nave 140 ft., the height of the central tower
216 ft., and of the western one 201 ft. There are other buildings of great antiquity, and the
Guildhall dates from the 15th century. It is the military head-quarters of the northern district
of England.

YORK, CARDINAL, the last of the line of the Stuart royal family, who died in 1807, 19 years
after his brother Charles Edward.

YORK, DUKE OF, title often given to the second son of the English sovereign, and conferred
in 1892 upon Prince George, second son of the Prince of Wales (afterwards King Edward VII.),
and held by him till 1901. In that year the Duke and Duchess visited Australia, in order to
inaugurate the new Commonwealth. Henry VIII. and Charles I. were Dukes of York, while their
elder brothers were alive, and James II., till he became King.

YORKE, OLIVER, the name assumed by the editor of Fraser's Magazine when it first started.

YORKSHIRE (3,208), the largest county in England, is divided into three Ridings (i. e. thirdings
or thirds) for administrative purposes, North, East, and West, with a fourth called the Ainsty,
under the jurisdiction of the Lord Mayor and aldermen of York; of these the West is the wealthiest
and the most populous; contains a large coal-field, and is the centre of the woollen manufacture
of the county; the East being mainly agricultural, with iron-works and shipbuilding-works;
and the North mainly pastoral, with industries connected with mining and shipping. LEEDS (q.
v.) is the largest town.

YORKTOWN, a small town in Virginia, U.S., on the York River, where Lord Cornwallis surrendered
to Washington in 1781.

YOSEMITE VALLEY, the most remarkable gorge in the world, in the centre of California, 140 m.
E. of San Francisco, 6 m. long and from ½ to 24 m. broad, girt by perpendicular walls thousands
of feet deep and traversed by the river Merced in a succession of falls of great height, the
whole presenting a scene of mingled grandeur and beauty; it was discovered in 1851, and steps
are being taken by Congress to preserve it as a place of public resort and recreation.

YOUGHAL, a seaport in co. Cork, on the estuary of Blackwater, 27 m. E. of Cork; has some structures
of interest, and exports chiefly agricultural produce.

YOUNG, ARTHUR, writer on agriculture, born at Whitehall; was trained to mercantile life, which
he abandoned in disgust, and took to farming, which he studied at home and abroad and practised
on scientific lines, and became Secretary of the Board of Agriculture on its establishment
in 1793; he elevated agriculture to the rank of a science and imparted dignity to the pursuit
of it (1741-1820).

YOUNG, BRIGHAM, Mormon polygamist chief, born at Whittingham, Vermont, U.S., son of a small
farmer; had no schooling, wrought as carpenter, fell in with Joe Smith's brother, and embraced
Mormonism in 1832; became one of the apostles of the Church and a preacher, and finally the
head in 1851 after the settlement of the body at Utah; with all his fanaticism he was a worldly-wise
man and a wise manager of secular affairs; died rich, leaving his fortune to 17 wives and 56
children (1810-1877).

YOUNG, CHARLES MAYNE, tragedian, born in London, made his début in 1798; married in 1805 a
gifted young actress, Julia Anne Grimani, with whom he had often played in lover's parts, and
whom, after a brilliant partnership of 16 months on the stage together, he the year after lost
in giving birth to a son; he survived her 50 years, but the love with which he loved her never
faded from his heart; appeared in the Haymarket, London, in 1807 in the character of Hamlet;
played afterwards other Shakespearian characters, such as Iago, Macbeth, and Falstaff in Covent
Garden and Drury Lane, and took leave of the stage in 1832 in the same character in which he
first appeared on it in London, and died at Brighton (1777-1856).

YOUNG, EDWARD, poet, born in Hampshire, educated at Westminster School; studied at Corpus Christi,
Oxford, and obtained a Fellowship at All-Souls' College; wrote plays and satires, but is best
known to fame as the author of "Night Thoughts," which has been pronounced "his best work and
his last good work," a poem which was once in high repute, and is less, if at all, in favour
to-day, being written in a mood which is a strain upon the reader; it is "a little too declamatory,"
says Professor Saintsbury, "a little too suggestive of soliloquies in an inky cloak, with footlights
in front"; his "Revenge," acted in 1721, is pronounced by the professor to be "perhaps the
very last example of an acting tragedy of real literary merit"; his satires in the "Love of
Fame; or, The Universal Passion," almost equalled those of Pope, and brought him both fame
and fortune; he took holy orders in 1727, and became in 1730 rector of Welwyn, in Hertfordshire;
his flattery of his patrons was fulsome, and too suggestive of the toady (1681-1765).

YOUNG, JAMES, practical chemist, born in Glasgow; discovered cheap methods of producing certain
substances of value in the chemical arts, and made experiments which led to the manufacture
of paraffin (1811-1889).

YOUNG, ROBERT, a notorious impostor; forged certificates, and obtained deacons' orders and
curacies, and could by no penalty be persuaded to an honest life, and was hanged in the end
for coining in 1700.

YOUNG, THOMAS, physicist, born in Somersetshire, of Quaker parents; studied medicine at home
and abroad; renounced Quakerism, and began practice in London in 1800; was next year appointed
professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution, 1802; made Secretary of the Royal
Society, and was afterwards nominated for other important appointments; his principal work
is a "Course of Lectures on Natural Philosophy and the Mechanical Arts," published in 1807,
in which he propounded the undulatory theory of light, and the principle of the interference
of rays; the hieroglyphic inscriptions of Egypt occupied much of his attention, and he is credited
with having anticipated Champollion in discovering the key to them (1773-1829).

YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION, an association founded in London in 1844, for the benefit
of young men connected with various dry-goods houses in the city, and which extended itself
over the other particularly large cities throughout the country, so that now it is located
in 1249 centres, and numbers in London alone some 14,000 members; its object is the welfare
of young men at once spiritually, morally, socially, and physically.

YOUNG PEOPLE'S SOCIETY OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOUR, a society established in 1881 by Dr. F. E. Clark,
Portland, Maine, U.S., in 1898; has a membership of three and a quarter million; it is undenominational,
but evangelical apparently, and its professed object is "to promote an earnest Christian life
among its members, to increase their mutual acquaintanceship, and to make them more useful
in the service of God."

YOUNGSTOWN (45), a town in Ohio, U.S., with large iron factories; is in the heart of a district
rich in iron and coal.

YPRES (16), an old Belgian town in West Flanders, 30 m. SW. of Bruges; was at one time a great
weaving centre, and famous for its diaper linen; has much fallen off, though it retains a town-hall
and a cathedral, both of Gothic architecture in evidence of what it once was; it was strongly
fortified once, and has been subjected to many sieges; the manufacture of thread and lace is
now the most important industry.

YRIARTE, CHARLES, French littérateur, born in Paris, of Spanish ancestry; has written works
dealing with Spain, Paris, the Franco-German War, Venice, &c.; b. 1832.

YRIARTE, THOMAS DE, Spanish poet; studied at Madrid; was editor of the Madrid Mercury; his
principal works "Musica," a poem, and "Literary Fables" (1750-1790).

YSTAD, a seaport in the extreme S. of Sweden, with a commodious harbour, and a trade chiefly
in corn.

YSTRADYFODWG (88), a township in Glamorgan, in a rich mining district.

YTTRIUM, a rare metal always found in combination with others, and is a blackish-gray powder;
the oxide of it, yttria, is a soft whitish powder, and when ignited glows with a pure white light.

YUCATAN, a peninsula in Central America dividing the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean Sea,
and one of the few peninsulas of the world that extend northwards; is a flat expanse; has a
good climate and a fertile soil, yielding maize, rice, tobacco, indigo, &c.; abounds in forests
of valuable wood; forms one of the States of the Mexican Republic; it bears traces of early
civilisation in the ruins of temples and other edifices.

YUGA, a name given by the Hindus to the four ages of the world, and, according to M. Barth,
of the gradual triumph of evil, as well as of the successive creations and destructions of
the universe, following each other in the lapse of immense periods of time.

YUKON, a great river of Alaska, rises in British territory, and after a course of 2000 m. falls,
by a number of mouths forming a delta, into the Behring Sea; it is navigable nearly throughout,
and its waters swarm with salmon three months in the year, some of them from 80 to 120 lbs.
weight, and from 5 to 6 ft. long.

YULE, the old name for the festival of Christmas, originally a heathen one, observed at the
winter solstice in joyous recognition of the return northward of the sun at that period, being
a relic in the N. of the old sun worship.

YULE, SIR HENRY, Orientalist, born at Inveresk, Mid-Lothian; was an officer in Bengal Engineers,
and engaged in surveys in the East; was president of the Royal Asiatic Society; wrote numerous
articles for Asiatic societies; his two great works, "The Book of Marco Polo the Venetian"
and the "Anglo-Indian Glossary," known by its other title as "Hobson Jobson" (1820-1889).

YUMBOES, fairies in African mythology, represented as about two feet in height, and of a white
colour.

YUNG-LING, a mountain range running N. and S., which forms the eastern buttress of the tableland
of Central Asia.

YUNNAN (4,000), the extreme south-western province of the Chinese Empire; is fertile particularly
in the S.; yields large quantities of maize, rice, tobacco, sugar, and especially opium, and
abounds in mineral wealth, including gold, silver, mercury, as well as iron, copper, and lead;
the country was long a prey to revolt against the Chinese rule, but it is now, after a war
of extermination against the rebels, the Panthays, the Burmese, reduced to order.

YUSTE, ST., called also St. Just, a village in Estremadura, Spain, the seat of a monastery
where Charles V., Emperor of Germany, spent the last 18 years of his life, and where he died.

YVES, the patron-saint of lawyers; was a lawyer himself, and used his knowledge of the law
to defend the oppressed; is called in Brittany "the poor man's advocate."

YVETOT (7), an old town in the dep. of Seine-Inférieure, 24 m. NW. of Rouen, with manufactures
of textile fabrics, and a trade in agricultural produce, the seigneurs of which long bore the
title of king, "Roi d'Yvetot," a title satirically applied by Béranger to Napoleon, and often
employed to denote an insignificant potentate with large pretensions.

Z

ZAANDAM or SAARDAM (15), a town in North Holland, 5 m. NW. of Amsterdam; intersected with a
network of canals, with various manufactures, including shipbuilding, and a considerable trade;
it was here Peter the Great wrought as a ship carpenter in 1699, and the house is still preserved
in which he lived, with a stone tablet inscribed "Petro Magno Alexievitch."

ZABISM. See SABIANISM.

ZACATE`CAS (40), a town of Mexico, capital of an inland province of the same name (452), 440
m. NW. of Mexico City; a great silver-mining centre, an industry which employs over 10,000
of the inhabitants; it is in a valley over 6000 ft. above the sea-level, and has several fine
churches, a college, a mint, &c.

ZACHARIAS, Pope from 741 to 752; succeeded Gregory III.; set aside the Merovingian dynasty
and sanctioned the elevation of Pepin the Short to the throne of France, in return for which
Pepin twice over saved Rome from the Lombards.

ZACOCCIA, a king of Mozambique who, according to the LUSIAD (q. v.), received Vasco da Gama
with welcome, believing him to be a Mohammedan, but conceived feelings of bitterest hatred
to him when he discovered he was a Christian, and tried, but all in vain, to allure him to
his ruin; the agent he employed to compass it failing, in his despair he took away his own life.

ZADIG, name of a famous novel by Voltaire, of a philosophical cast, bearing upon life as in
the hands of a destiny beyond our control.

ZADKIEL, according to the Rabbins, the name of the angel of the planet Jupiter; also pseudonym
assumed by Richard James Morrison, a naval officer, believer in astrology, and the compiler
of an astrological almanac.

ZAGAZIG (35), a town in the Delta of Egypt, 50 m. NE. of Cairo; a railway centre, and entrepôt
for the cotton and grain grown in the section of the delta round it, and once a centre of worship,
and the site of two temples; Tel-el-Kebir (q. v.) lies E. of it.

ZAHN, THEODOR, biblical scholar, born in Rhenish Prussia, professor of Theology at Erlangen;
distinguished for his eminent scholarship in connection with the matter especially of the New
Testament canon; b. 1838.

ZÄHRINGEN, a village 2 m. N. of Freiburg, in Baden, with a castle now in ruins which gives
name to the reigning grand-ducal family of Baden, the founders of which were counts of Breisgau.

ZAIRE, name for the CONGO (q. v.) in part of its lower course.

ZAKKUM, a tree, according to Moslem belief, growing in hell, and of the bitter fruit of which
the damned are compelled to eat so as to intensify their torment.

ZALEUCUS, law-giver of the ancient Locrians, a Greek people settled in Lower Italy, and who
flourished in 700th century B.C.; had a supreme respect for law, and was severe in the enforcement
of it; punished adultery with the forfeiture of sight; refused to exonerate his own son who
had been guilty of the offence, but submitted to the loss of one of his own eyes instead of
exacting the full penalty of the culprit; had established a law forbidding any one to enter
the Senate-house armed; did so himself on one occasion in a sudden emergency, was reminded
of the law, and straightway fell upon his sword as a sacrifice to the sovereignty of the claims
of social order.

ZAMA, a fortified city of ancient Numidea, 100 m. SW. of Carthage, where HANNIBAL (q. v.) was
defeated by Scipio Africanus, and the SECOND PUNIC WAR (q. v.) brought to an end, and the fate
of Carthage virtually sealed.

ZAMBESI, one of the four great African rivers, and the fourth largest as regards both the volume
of its waters and the area it drains, the other three being the Nile, the Congo, and the Niger;
its head-streams being the Lungebungo, the Leeba, and Leeambye; it waters a rich pastoral region,
and it falls into the Indian Ocean after a course of nearly 1600 m., in which it drains 600,000
sq. m. of territory, or an area three times larger than that of France; owing to cataracts
and rapids it is only navigable in different stretches; at 900 m. from its mouth it plunges
in a cataract known as the Victoria Falls, and which rivals in grandeur those even of Niagara.

ZAMBESIA, a territory on the Zambesi, under British protection, and in the hands of the British
South Africa Company, embracing Mashonaland, Matabeleland, and the country of Khama.

ZAMORA (15), ancient town of Spain, on the right bank of the Douro, 150 m. NW. of Madrid; now
in a decayed state; was a flourishing place in Moorish times; contains interesting ruins; manufactures
linens and woollens, and trades in wine and fruits.

ZANGWILL, ISRAEL, littérateur, born in London, of Jewish parents in poor circumstances; practically
self-taught; studied at London University, where he took his degree with triple honours; became
a teacher, then a journalist; has written novels, essays, and poems; among his works the "Bachelor's
Club," "Old Maid's Club," "Children of the Ghetto," "Dreams of the Ghetto," "The Master," "Without
Prejudice," &c.; b. 1854.

ZANGWILL, LOUIS, man of letters, brother of preceding; self-taught; has written several works
under the pseudonym of ZZ; distinguished himself at one time as a chess-player; b. 1869.

ZANTE (15), one of the Ionian Islands, 9 m. off the NW. coast of the Morea, is 24 m. long and
12 broad; raises currants, the produce of a dwarf vine, and exports large quantities annually.
Zante (14), the capital, on a bay on the E. coast, is a clean and prosperous town, most so
of any in the group of islands.

ZANZIBAR, a kingdom of East Africa, under British protection, consisting of the islands of
Zanzibar (150), with a capital (30) of the same name, and the island of Pemba (50), and a strip
of the coast extending 10 m. inland from Cape Delgado to Kipini; has a hot unhealthy climate,
and a rich tropical vegetation; its products are cloves chiefly, coco-nuts, betel-nuts, and
grain, and the exports ivory, india-rubber, gum, &c.; the natives are mostly Arab Mohammedans
under a sultan.

ZAPOROGIANS, Cossacks of the Ukraine, who revolted under Mazeppa as chief, and were transported
by Catherine II to the shores of the Sea of Azov.

ZARA (11), the capital of Dalmatia, and a seaport of Austria, on a promontory on the coast,
129 m. SE. of Trieste; it was founded by the Venetians, has a spacious harbour, was strongly
fortified, and the chief manufactures are glass and a liqueur called maraschino.

ZARAGOZA. See SARAGOSSA.

ZEA, the ancient Ceos, an island of the Grecian Archipelago; of great fertility; produces wine,
honey, silk, and maize.

ZEALAND, the largest island in the Danish Archipelago, situated between the Cattegat and the
Baltic, being 81 m. long and 67 m. broad, with COPENHAGEN (q. v.) on the E. coast; the surface
is nearly everywhere fiat, and agriculture and cattle-rearing the chief industries.

ZEALAND (213), a province of the Netherlands, formed chiefly of islands, of which WALCHEREN
(q. v.) is one, constituting a delta as if formed by the Maas and Scheldt; great part of it
is reclaimed from the sea.

ZEALAND, NEW. See NEW ZEALAND.

ZEALOTS, THE, a fanatical party among the Jews in Judea, who rose in revolt against the Roman
domination on the appointment over them of a Roman governor instead of a native prince, which
they regarded as an insult to their religion and religious belief.

ZEBU, one of the Visaya group of the Philippine Islands, E. of Negros.

ZECHARIAH, a Hebrew prophet who appears to have been born in Babylon during the captivity,
and to have prophesied in Jerusalem at the time of the restoration, and to have contributed
by his prophecies to encourage the people in rebuilding the temple and reorganising its worship;
his prophecies are divided into two great sections, but the authenticity of the latter has
been much debated; he is reckoned one of the Minor Prophets.

ZEDLITZ, JOSEPH CHRISTIAN VON, poet, born in Austrian Silesia; entered and served in the army,
and did service as a diplomatist; wrote dramas and lyrics, and translated Byron's "Childe Harold"
into German (1790-1862).

ZEEHAN, a township of recent growth on the W. coast of Tasmania, with large silver-lead mines
wrought by several companies, and a source of great wealth.

ZEIT-GEIST (i. e. Time-spirit), German name for the spirit of the time, or the dominant trend
of life and thought at any particular period.

ZEITUN (20), a town in the province of Aleppo, with iron mines, inhabited chiefly by Armenian
Christians; distinguished as having for centuries maintained their independence under Turkish
oppression.

ZELLER, EDUARD, German professor of Philosophy, born in Würtemberg; studied at Tübingen; was
first a disciple of Baur, and then of Hegel; became professor at Berlin, and devoted himself
chiefly to the history of Greek philosophy, and distinguished himself most in that regard; b. 1814.

ZEMINDAR, in India a holder or farmer of land from the government, and responsible for the
land-tax.

ZEM-ZEM, a sacred well in Mecca, and all built round along with the CAABA (q. v.); has its
name from the bubbling sound of the waters; the Moslems think it the Well which Hagar found
with her little Ishmael in the wilderness when he was dying of thirst.

ZENANA, in India the part of a house reserved for the women among Hindu families of good caste,
and to which only since 1860 Christian women missionaries have been admitted, and a freer intercourse
established.

ZEND, name applied, mistakenly it would seem, by the Europeans to the ancient Iranian language
of Persia, or the language in which the Zend-Avesta is written, closely related to the Sanskrit
of the Vedas it appears.

ZEND-AVESTA, the name given to the sacred writings of the Guebres or Parsees, ascribed to Zoroaster,
of which he was more the compiler than the author, and of which many are now lost; they represent
several stages of religious development, and as a whole yield no consistent system.

ZENITH, name of Arab origin given to the point of the heaven directly overhead, being as it
were the pole of the horizon, the opposite point directly under foot being called the Nadir,
a word of similar origin; the imaginary line connecting the two passes through the centre of
the earth.

ZENO, Greek philosopher of the ELEATIC SCHOOL (q. v.), and who flourished in 500 B.C.; was
the founder of the dialectic so successfully adopted by Socrates, which argues for a particular
truth by demonstration of the absurdity that would follow from its denial, a process of argument
known as the reductio ad absurdum. (342-270 B.C.). See STOICS, THE.

ZENOBIA, queen of Palmyra and ultimately of the East, whose ambition provoked the jealousy
of the Emperor Aurelian, who marched an army against her, and after a succession of defeats
subdued her and brought her to Rome to adorn his triumph as conqueror, though afterwards he
presented her with a domain at Tivoli, where she spent the rest of her days in queen-like dignity,
with her two sons by her side; she was a woman of great courage and surpassing beauty. See
LONGINUS.

ZEPHANIAH, a Hebrew prophet who prophesied in the interval between the decline and fall of
Nineveh and the hostile advance of Babylon; forewarned the nation of the judgment of God impending
over them for their ungodliness, and exhorted them to repentance as the only way of averting
the inevitable doom, while he at the same time encouraged the faithful to persevere in their
godly course with the assurance that the day of judgment would be succeeded by a day of glorious
deliverance, that they would yet become "a name and a praise among the people of the earth."

ZEPHON (searcher of secrets), name of a cherub sent, along with ITHURIEL (q. v.), by the archangel
Gabriel to find out the whereabouts of Satan after his flight from hell.

ZEPHYRUS, a personification in the Greek mythology of the West Wind, and in love with Flora.

ZERMATT, a small village of the canton Valais, in Switzerland, 23 in. SW. of Brieg, a great
centre of tourists and the starting-point in particular for the ascent of the Matterhorn.

ZERO, a word of Arab origin signifying a cipher, and employed to denote a neutral point in
scale between an ascending and descending series, or between positive and negative.

ZEUS, the chief deity of the Greeks, the sovereign ruler of the world, the father of gods and
men, the mightiest of the gods, and to whose will as central all must bow; he was the son of
Kronos and Rhea; by the help of his brothers and sisters dethroned his father, seized the sovereign
power, and appointed them certain provinces of the universe to administer in his name--Hera
to rule with him as queen above, Poseidon over the sea, Pluto over the nether world, Demeter
over the fruits of the earth, Hestia over social life of mankind; to his dynasty all the powers
in heaven and earth were more or less related, descended from it and dependent on it; and he
himself was to the Greeks the symbol of the intelligence which was henceforth to be the life
and light of men, an idea which is reflected in the name Jupiter given him by the Romans, which
means "father of the day"; he is represented as having his throne in heaven, and as wielding
a thunderbolt in his right hand, in symbol of the jealousy with which he guards the order of
the world established under him as chief.

ZEUSS, JOHANN KASPAR, great Celtic scholar, and the founder of Celtic philology, born at Voghtendorf,
in Upper Franconia, professor at Bamberg; his great work, "Grammatica Celtica" (1806-1856).

ZEUXIS, famous Greek painter, born at Heraclea, and who flourished from 420 B.C. to the close
of the century; was unrivalled in rendering types of sensuous, specially female, beauty, and
his principal works are his pictures of "Helen," "Zeus Enthroned," "The Infant Hercules Strangling
the Serpent"; he is said to have given away several of his works rather than sell them, as
no price could pay him for them.

ZIDON, an ancient town of Phoenicia, 20 m. N. of Tyre, and the original capital.

ZIETHEN, JOHANN JOACHIM VON, Prussian general, born in Russia; entered the army at the age
of 15, served as a cavalry officer under Frederick the Great, was one of the greatest of his
generals, became his personal friend, and contributed to a great many of his victories, all
of which he lived through, spending his days thereafter in quiet retirement at Berlin in favour
with the people and in honour to the last with the king; is described by Carlyle at 45 as "beautiful"
to him, though with "face one of the coarsest," but "face thrice-honest, intricately ploughed
with thoughts which are well kept silent (the thoughts indeed being themselves mostly inarticulate,
thoughts of a simple-hearted, much-enduring, hot-tempered son of iron and oatmeal); decidedly
rather likeable" (1699-1786). See Carlyle's "Frederick."

