CLASS WAR SKIRMISHES

"Shingle-weaving is not a trade; it is a battle. For ten hours a day the sawyer faces two teethed
steel discs whirling around two hundred times a minute. To the one on the left he feeds heavy
blocks of cedar, reaching over with his left hand to remove the rough shingles it rips off.
He does not, he cannot stop to see what his left hand is doing. His eyes are too busy examining
the shingles for knot holes to be cut out by the second saw whirling in front of him.

"The saw on his left sets the pace. If the singing blade rips fifty rough shingles off the
block every minute, the sawyer must reach over to its teeth fifty times in sixty seconds; if
the automatic carriage feeds the odorous wood sixty times into the hungry teeth, sixty times
he must reach over, turn the shingle, trim its edge on the gleaming saw in front of him, cut
out the narrow strip containing the knot hole with two quick movements of his right hand and
toss the completed board down the chute to the packers, meanwhile keeping eyes and ears open
for the sound that asks him to feed a new block into the untiring teeth. Hour after hour the
shingle weaver's hands and arms, plain, unarmored flesh and blood, are staked against the screeching
steel that cares not what it severs. Hour after hour the steel sings its crescendo note as
it bites into the wood, the sawdust cloud thickens, the wet sponge under the sawyer's nose,
fills with fine particles. If 'cedar asthma,' the shingle weaver's occupational disease, does
not get him, the steel will. Sooner or later he reaches over a little too far, the whirling
blade tosses drops of deep red into the air, and a finger, a hand or part of an arm comes sliding
down the slick chute."[2]

This description of shingle weaving was given by Walter V. Woehlke, managing editor of the
Sunset Magazine, in an article which had as its purpose the justification of the murders committed
by the Everett mob, and it contains no over-statement. Shingle weavers are set apart from the
rest of the workers by their mutilated hands and the dead grey pallor of their cheeks.

"The nature of a man's occupation, his daily working environment, marks in a large degree the
nature of the man himself, and cannot help but mold the early years, at least, or his economic
organization. Men who flirt with death in their daily calling become inured to physical danger,
they become contemptuous of the man whose calling fails to bring forth physical prowess. So
do they in their organizations become irritated and contemptuous at the long-drawn-out process
of bargaining, the duel of wits and brain power engaged in by the more conservative organizations
to win working concessions. Their motto becomes 'Strike quick and strike hard,'* * *" So says
E. P. Marsh, President of the Washington State Federation of Labor, in speaking of the shingle
weavers.[3]

Logging, no less than shingle weaving, is a dangerous occupation. The countless articles of
wood in every-day use have claimed their toll of human blood. A falling tree or limb, a mis-step
on the river, a faulty cable, a weakened trestle; each may mean a still and mangled form. Time
and again the loggers have organized to improve their working conditions only to find themselves
beaten or betrayed. Playing upon the natural desire of the woodsmen for organization, shrewd
swindlers have formed unions which were nothing more than dues collection agencies. Politicians
have fathered organizations for their own purposes. Unions built by the men themselves have
fallen into the hands of officials who used them for selfish personal gain. Over and over the
employers have crushed the embryonic unions only to see them rise again with added strength.
Forced by the very necessities of their daily lives, the workers always returned to the fight
with a new and better form of unionism.

Like the loggers, the shingle weavers were routed time and again, but their spirit never died.
The Everett shingle weavers formed their union as a result of a successful strike in 1901.
In 1905 they were strong enough to resist a proposed reduction of wages. In 1906 they struck
in sympathy with the Ballard weavers, and lost. Within a year the defeated union was back as
strong as before. By 1911 the International Shingle Weavers Union had attained a membership
of nearly 2,000, the majority of whom were in accord with the Industrial Workers of the World.
The question of affiliation with the I. W. W. was widely discussed and was only prevented from
going to a referendum vote by the efforts of a few officials. Further discussion of the question
was excluded from the columns of their official organ, "The Shingle Weaver," by the Ninth Annual
Convention.[4]

Following this slap in the face, the progressive members quit the union in large numbers, leaving
affairs in the hands of conservative and reactionary elements. Endeavors were made to negotiate
contracts with the employers; and in 1913 the officials secured $30,000 from the American Federation
of Labor and made a pretense at the organization of all workers in the woods and mills into
one body. This was a move aimed at the Forest and Lumber Workers of the I. W. W., which was
feared alike by the employers and the craft union officials because of its new strength gained
thru the affiliation of the Brotherhood of Timber Workers in the southern states. Instead of
gaining ground by the move, the shingle weavers union lost in membership and subsequently claimed
that industrial unionism was a failure in the lumber industry.

The industrial depression of 1914-15 found all unions in bad shape. Employers used the army
of unemployed as an axe to cut wages. In the spring of 1915 notice of a wage reduction was
posted in the Everett shingle mills. The weavers promptly struck. Scabs, gunmen, injunctions,
and violence followed. The strike failed, the wage reduction was made, but the men returned
to work relying upon a "gentlemen's agreement" that the employers would voluntarily raise the
wages of the shingle weavers when shingles again sold for what they were bringing before the
depression. Faith in agreements had gotten in its deadly work; the shingle weavers believed
that the employers meant to keep their word.

In the spring of 1916 shingles soared to a price higher than had prevailed for years, but the
promised raise failed to materialize. With but a skeleton of an organization to back them,
a handful of determined delegates met in Seattle in April and decided to demand the restoration
of the 1915 scale thruout the entire jurisdiction of the Shingle Weavers' Union, setting May
1st as the date when the raise should take effect.

At the time set, or shortly thereafter, most of the mills in the Northwest paid the scale.
Everett, where the employers had given their "word of honor," refused the strikers' demand.
The fight was on! The Seaside Shingle Company, which held no membership in the Commercial Club,
soon granted the raise. Many of the other companies, notably the Jamison Mill, began the importation
of scabs within the month. The cry of "outside agitators" was forgotten long enough to go outside
in search of notorious gunmen and scab-herders. The slums, the hells of Capitalism, were raked
with a fine-toothed comb for degenerates with a record for lawless deviltry. The strikers threw
out their picket line and the ever-present class war began to show itself in other than peaceful
ways.

During May, June and July the picket line had to be maintained in the face of strong opposition
by the local authorities who were the pliant tools of the lumber trust. The ranks of the pickets
were constantly being thinned by false arrest and imprisonment on every charge and no charge,
until on August 19th there were but eighteen men on the picket line.

On that particular morning the Everett police searched the little handful of pickets in front
of the Jamison Mill to make sure that they were unarmed, and when that fact was determined,
they started the men across the narrow trestle bridge that extended over an arm of the bay.
When the pickets were well out on the bridge, the imported thugs, some seventy in number, personally
directed and urged on by their employer, Neil Jamison, poured in from either side, leaving
no means of escape save that of making a thirty foot leap into the deep waters of the bay,
and with brass knuckles and blackjacks made an attack upon the defenseless weavers. The pickets
were unmercifully beaten. Robert H. Mills, business agent of the Shingle Weavers' Union, was
knocked down by one of the open-shop thugs and kicked in the ribs and face as he lay senseless
in the roadway. From a vantage point, thoughtfully removed from the danger zone, the police
calmly surveyed the scene.

When darkness fell that night, the pickets, aided by irate citizens, returned to the attack
with clubs and fists. The tables were turned. The "moral heroes" had their heads cracked. Seeing
that the scabs were thoroly whipped, the "guardians of the peace" rushed to the rescue with
drawn revolvers. In the melee one union picket was shot thru the leg.

About ten nights later, Mr. Jamison herded his scabs into military formation and after a short
parade thru the main streets led them to the Everett Theater; the party being in appreciation
of their "efficiency." This arrogant display incensed the strikers and citizens, and when the
scabs emerged from the show a near-riot occurred. Mills was present and altho too weak from
his recent injuries to have taken any active part in the fray, he was arrested and thrown in
jail in default of bail. The man who had murderously assaulted him at the mill swore out the
complaint. Mills was subsequently tried and acquitted on a charge of inciting to riot. Nothing
was done to his assailant. And in none of these acts of violence was the I. W. W. in any way
a participant.

During this period there existed a strike of longshoremen on the entire Pacific Coast, including
the port of Everett. The wrath of the employers fell heavily upon the Riggers and Stevedores
because that body was not in sympathy with the idea of craft contracts or agreements, and because
of the adoption by a large majority of a proposal to "amalgamate all the unions of the Maritime
Transportation Industry, between the Warehouse at the Shipping Point and Warehouse at the Receiving
Point into one big powerful organization, meeting, thinking, and acting together at all times."[5]
The industrially united employers of the Pacific Coast did not relish the idea of the workers
grouping themselves together along lines similar to those on which the owners were associated.
The longshoremen's strike started on June 1st and was marked by more or less serious disorders
at various points, most of the violence being precipitated by detectives placed in the unions
by the employers. The tug boat men were also on strike in Everett, particularly against the
American Tug Boat Company owned by Captain Harry Ramwell. All of the unions on strike in Everett
were affiliated with the A. F. of L. Striking longshoremen from Seattle aided the shingle weavers
on their picket line from time to time, and individual members of the I. W. W., holding duplicate
cards in the A. F. of L. stood shoulder to shoulder with the strikers, but officially the I.
W. W. had no part in any of the strikes.

Meanwhile in Seattle the I. W. W. had planned to organize the forest and lumber workers on
a scale never before attempted. Calls for organizers had been coming in from the surrounding
district and there were demands for a mass convention to discuss conditions in the industry.
Yet, strange as it may seem to those who do not know of the ebb and flow of labor unions, there
were at that time less than half a hundred paid-up members in the Seattle loggers branch, so
great had been the depression from 1914 to 1916. The conference was set for July 4th and five
hundred logger delegates responded, representing nearly as many camps in the district. Enthusiasm
ran high! The assembled workers suggested the adoption of a plan of district organization along
lines more in keeping with the modern trend of the lumber industry. The loggers' union, then
known as Local 432, ratified the actions of the conference. As a preliminary move it was decided
that an organizer be secured to make a survey of the lumber situation in the surrounding territory.
General Headquarters in Chicago was communicated with, James Rowan was found to be available,
and on July 31st he was sent to Everett to find out the sentiment for industrial unionism at
that point.

That night Rowan spoke on Wetmore Avenue fifty feet back from Hewitt Avenue, in compliance
with the street regulations. No mention was made of local conditions as Rowan had just come
from another part of the country and was unaware that a shingle weavers strike was in progress.
His speech consisted mainly of references to the Industrial Relations Commission Report, a
pamphlet summarizing that report being the only literature offered for sale at the meeting.
Toward the end of his speech Rowan declared:

"The A. F. of L. believes in signing agreements with the employers. The craft unions regard
these contracts as sacred. When one craft goes on strike the others are forced to remain at
work. This makes the craft unions scab on each other."

"You are a liar!" cried Jake Michel, an A. F. of L. representative, staunchly defending his
organization.

From an automobile near the edge of the crowd, Donald McRae, Sheriff of Snohomish County, called
to Michel:

"Jake, I will run that guy in if you say so."

"I don't see any need to run him in;" remonstrated Michel. "He hasn't said anything yet to
run him in for."

Nevertheless McRae, usurping the powers of the local police department, made Rowan leave the
platform and go with him to the county jail. McRae was drunk.

Rowan was held for an hour. Immediately upon his release he returned to the corner to resume
his speech. Police Officer Fox thereupon arrested him and took him to the city jail. He was
thrown into a dark cell for refusing to do jail work, was taken into court next morning and
absurdly charged with peddling without a license, was denied a jury trial, refused a postponement,
not allowed a chance to secure counsel, and was sentenced to thirty days imprisonment with
an alternative of leaving town. No ordinance against street speaking at Wetmore and Hewitt
then existed. Rowan chose to leave town. No time was set as to how long he was to remain away.
He then left for Bellingham and from there went to Sedro-Woolley. Using an assumed name to
avoid the blacklist he worked at the latter place for a short time to familiarize himself with
job conditions, subsequently returning to Everett.

Levi Remick, a one-armed veteran of the industrial war, was next sent to Everett on August
4th to act as temporary delegate. He interviewed a number of people and sold some literature.
Receiving orders to stop selling the pamphlets and papers, he inquired the price of a peddler's
license and finding it prohibitive he returned to Seattle to secure funds to open an office.
A small hall was found at 1219½ Hewitt Avenue, a month's rent was paid, and on August 9th Remick
placed a sign in the window and started to sell literature and transact business for the I. W. W.

The little hall remained open until late in August. Migratory workers, strikers, and citizens
generally, dropped in from time to time to ask about the organization or to purchase papers.
Solidarity and the Industrial Worker were particularly in demand, the latter paper having commenced
publication in Seattle on April 1st, 1916. A number of Everett citizens, desiring to hear a
lecture by James P. Thompson, who had spoken in Everett without molestation in 1915 and in
March and April of 1916, made donations to Remick sufficient to cover all expenses, and it
was arranged that Thompson speak on August 22nd. Attempts to secure a hall met with failure;
the halls of Everett were closed to the I. W. W. The conspiracy against free speech and free
assembly was on in earnest! No other course was left but to hold the proposed meeting on the
street, so Hewitt and Wetmore, the spot where the Salvation Army and various religious and
political bodies spoke almost nightly, was selected and the meeting advertised.

Early in the morning on the day before the scheduled meeting, Sheriff McRae, commanding a body
of police officers over whom he had no official control, stormed into the I. W. W. hall and
tore from the wall all bills advertising Thompson's meeting, saying with an oath:

"That man won't be allowed to speak in Everett!"

Turning to Remick and throwing back his coat to display the badge, he yelled:

"I order you out of this town! Get out by afternoon or you go to jail!"

McRae was drunk. Stalking out as rapidly as his condition would permit he staggered down the
street to a near-by pool hall where the order was repeated to the men assembled therein. These,
with other workingmen, 25 in all were rounded up, seized, roughly questioned, searched, and
all those who had no families or property in Everett were forcibly deported. That night ten
more were taken from the shingle weaver's picket line and sent out of town without due process
of law. Treatment of this kind became general.

"Not a man in overalls is safe!" declared the secretary of the Everett Building Trades Council.
"Men just off the job with their pay checks in their pocket have been unceremoniously thrown
out of town just because they were workingmen."[6]

Remick closed the little hall and left for Seattle the next morning to place the question of
the Thompson meeting before the Seattle membership. Shortly before noon Rowan, who had just
returned to Everett, went to the hall and finding it closed and locked he proceeded to open
it up. Within a few minutes Sheriff McRae, in company with police officer Fox, entered the
place and ordered Rowan to leave town by two o'clock. He then tore up the balance of the advertising
matter for the Thompson meeting. McRae was drunk. Rowan went to Seattle, where the report of
this occurrence made the members more determined than ever to hold the meeting that night.

With about twenty other members of the I. W. W., Thompson went to Everett. The Salvation Army
was holding services on the corner. Placing his platform even further back from the street
intersection Thompson waited until the Army had concluded and then commenced his lecture. Using
the Industrial Relations Commission Report as the basis of his talk, he spoke for about twenty
minutes without interruption. Then a body of fifteen policemen marched down the street and
swung into the crowd. The officer in charge stepped up to Thompson and requested him to go
to see the chief of police at the police station. After addressing a few remarks to the crowd
Thompson withdrew from the platform. His place was taken at once by Rowan, who was immediately
dragged from the stand and turned over to the same officer who had charge of Thompson and his
wife. Mrs. Edith Frennette then spoke briefly and called for a song. The audience responded
with "The Red Flag," but meanwhile Mrs. Frennette and Mrs. Lorna Mahler had been placed under
arrest. In succession several others attempted to speak but were pulled or pushed off the stand.
The police then formed a circle by holding hands around those who were close to the platform.
One by one the citizens were allowed to slip outside the "ring-around-a-rosy" until only "desperadoes"
were left. These made no effort to resist arrest, and were started toward the city jail. The
officer entrusted with Thompson was so interested in his captive that Rowan was able to quietly
remove himself from the scene, returning to the street corner where he spoke for more than
half an hour before being rearrested.

Aroused by this invasion of liberty, Mrs. Letelsia Fye, an Everett citizen, arose to recite
the Declaration of Independence, but even that proved too revolutionary for the tools of the
lumber trust. A threatening move on the part of the police brought back the thought of her
two unprotected children and caused her to cease her efforts to declare independence in Everett.

"Is there a red-blooded man in the audience who will take the stand?" called out the gallant
little woman as she stepped from the platform. Jake Michel promptly accepted the challenge
and was as promptly suppressed by the police at the first mention of free speech.

In the jail the arrested persons were searched one by one and thrown into the "receiving tank."
When Thompson's turn came, Commissioner of Public Safety, as Chief of Police Kelly was known
under Everett's form or government, said to him:

"Mr. Thompson, I don't want to lock you up."

"That's interesting," replied Thompson. "Why have you got me down here?"

"We don't want you to speak on the street at this time."

"Have you any ordinance against it, that is, have I broken any law?" enquired Thompson.

"Oh no, no. That isn't the idea," rejoined Kelly. "We have strikes on, labor troubles here,
and we don't want you to speak here at all. You are welcome at any other time, but not now."

"Well," said Thompson, "as a representative of labor, when labor is in trouble is the time
I would like to speak, but I am not going to advocate anything that I think you could object to."

"Now, Thompson," said Kelly, "if you will agree to get right out of town I will let you go.
I don't want to lock you up."

"Do you believe in free speech?" asked Thompson.

"Yes."

"And I am not arrested?"

"No, you are not arrested."

"Come up to the meeting then," Thompson said with a smile, "for I am going back and speak."

"Oh no, you are not!"--and Kelly kind of laughed. "No, you are not!"

"If you let me go I will go right up to the corner and speak, and if you send me out of town
I will come back," said Thompson emphatically. "I don't know what you are going to do, but
that's how I stand."

"Lock him up with the rest!" was the abrupt reply of the "Commissioner of Public Safety."

At this juncture James Rowan was brought in from the patrol wagon, and searched. As the officers
were about to put him in the cell with the others, Sheriff McRae called out:

"Don't put him in there, he is instigator of the whole damn business. Turn him over to me."
He then took Rowan in his automobile to the county jail and threw him in a cell, along with
B. E. Peck, who had previously been given a "floater" out of town for having spoken on the
street on or about August 15th. McRae was drunk.

More than half a thousand indignant citizens followed the twenty-one arrested persons to the
jail, loudly condemning the outrage against their constitutional rights. Editor H. W. Watts,
of the Northwest Worker, a union and socialist paper published in Everett, forcibly expressed
his opinion of the suppression of free speech and was thereupon thrown into jail. Fearing a
serious outbreak, Michel secured permission to address the people surrounding the jail. The
crowd, upon receiving assurances from Michel that the men would be well treated and could be
seen in the morning, quietly dispersed and returned to their homes.

The free speech prisoners were charged with vagrancy on the police blotter, but no formal charge
was ever made, nor were they brought to trial. Next morning, Thompson and his wife, who had
return tickets on the Interurban, were deported by rail, together with Herbert Mahler, secretary
of the Seattle I. W. W. Mrs. Mahler, Mrs. Frennette and the balance of the prisoners were taken
to the City Dock and deported by boat. At the instigation of McRae, and without a court order,
the sum of $13. was seized from the personal funds of James Orr and turned over to the purser
of the boat to pay the fares of the deportees to Seattle. Protests against this legalized robbery
were of no avail; the amount of the fares was never repaid. Mayor Merrill of Everett, replying
to a letter from Mahler, promised that this money would be refunded to Orr. His word proved
to be as good as that of the Everett shingle mill owners. Prominent members of the Commercial
Club lent civic dignity to the deportation by their profane threats to use physical force in
the event that any of the deported prisoners dared to return.

Upon their arrival in Seattle the deported men conferred with other members of the union, telling
of the beating some of them had received while in jail, and as a result there was organized
a free speech committee composed of Sam Dixon, Dan Emmett and A. E. Soper. Telegrams were then
sent to General Headquarters, to Solidarity and to various branches of the organization, notifying
them of what had happened. At a street meeting that night, Mrs. Frennette, Mrs. Mahler and
James P. Thompson, gave the workers the facts and collected over $50.00 for the committee to
use in its work. In Everett the Labor Council passed a resolution stating that the unions there
were back of the battle for free speech and condemning McRae and the authorities for their
illegal actions. The Free Speech Fight was on!

Remick, in the meantime, had returned to Everett and found that all the literature had been
confiscated from the hall. The day following his return, August 24th, Sheriff McRae blustered
into the hall with a police officer in his train. Leering at Remick he exclaimed:

"You God damn son of a b----, are you back here again? Get on your coat and get into that auto!"

Seizing an I. W. W. stencil that was lying on the table he tore it to shreds.

"If anybody asks who tore that up,"--bombastically--"tell them Sheriff McRae tore it!"

Shoving Remick into the automobile with the remark that jail was too easy for him and they
would therefore take him to the Interurban and deport him, the sheriff drove off to make good
his threat. McRae was drunk.

On the corner that night, Harry Feinberg spoke to a large audience and was not molested. That
this was due to no change of policy on the part of the lumber trust tools was shown when secretary
Herbert Mahler went to Everett the following day in reference to the situation. He was met
at the depot by Sheriff McRae who asked him what he had come to Everett for. "To see the Mayor,"
answered Mahler. "Anything you have to say to the Mayor, you can say to me," was McRae's rejoinder.
After a brief conversation Mahler was deported to Seattle by the same car on which he had made
the trip over. McRae was drunk.

F. W. Stead reopened the hall on the 26th and managed to hold it down for a couple of days.
Three speakers appeared and spoke that night. J. A. MacDonald, editor of the Industrial Worker,
opened the meeting. George Reese spoke next, but upon commencing to advocate the use of violence
he was pulled from the platform by Harry Feinberg, who concluded the meeting. No arrests were made.

It was during this period that Secretary Herbert Mahler addressed a letter to Governor Ernest
Lister, informing him of the state of lawlessness existing in Everett. A second letter was
sent to Mayor Merrill and in it was enclosed a copy of the letter to Lister. No reply was received
to the communication.

For a time following this there was no interference with street meetings. Feinberg spoke without
molestation on Monday night and Dan Emmett opened up the hall once more. On Tuesday evening,
the same night as the theater riot, Thompson addressed an audience of thousands of Everett
citizens, giving them the facts of the arrests made the previous week, and advising the workers
against the use of violence in any disputes with employers.

After having been held by McRae for eight days without any commitment papers, Rowan was turned
over to the city police and released on September 1st. He returned to the street corner and
spoke for several succeeding nights including "Labor Day" which fell on the 4th. Incidentally
he paid a visit to the home of Jake Michel and, after industrial unionism was more fully explained,
Michel agreed that the craft union contract system forced scabbery upon the workers. Rowan
left shortly thereafter for Anacortes to find out the sentiment for organization in that section.

This period of comparative peace was due to the fact that the lumber barons realized that their
actions reflected no credit upon themselves or their city and they wished to create a favorable
impression upon Federal Mediator Blackman who was in Everett at the request of U. S. Commissioner
of Labor Wilson. It was during this time, too, that the protagonists of the open shop were
secretly marshalling their forces for a still more lawless and brutal campaign.

Affairs gradually slipped from the hands of the Everett authorities into the grasp of those
Snohomish County officials who were more completely dominated by the lumber interests.

"Tom," remarked Jake Michel one day to Chief of Police Kelley, "it seems funny that you can't
handle the situation."

"I can handle it all right," replied Kelley, bitterly, "but McRae has been drunk around here
for the last two or three weeks and he has butted into my business."

It was on August 30th that the lumber trust definitely stripped the city officials of all power
and turned affairs over to the sheriff. On this point a quotation from the Industrial Relations
Commission Report is particularly illuminating in showing a common industrial condition:

"Free speech in informal and personal intercourse was denied the inhabitants of the coal camps.
It was also denied public speakers. Union organizers would not be permitted to address meetings.
Periodicals permitted in the camps were censored in the same fashion. The operators were able
to use their power of summary discharge to deny free press, free speech, and free assembly,
to prevent political activities for the suppression of popular government and the winning of
political control. +I find that the head of the political machinery is the sheriff.+"

In Everett the sheriff's office was controlled by the Commercial Club and the Commercial Club
in turn was dominated, thru an inner circle, by the lumber trust. Acting for the trust a small
committee meeting was held on the morning of the 30th with the editor of a trust-controlled
newspaper, the secretary of the Commercial Club, two city officials, a banker and a lumber
trust magnate in attendance. A larger meeting of those in control met in the afternoon and,
pursuant to a call already published in the Everett Herald, several hundred scabs, gunmen,
and other open shop advocates were brought together that night at the Commercial Club.

Commissioner of Finance, W. H. Clay, suggested that as Federal Mediator Blackman, an authority
on labor questions, was in the city it might be well to confer with him regarding a settlement.
Banker Moody said he did not think a conference would be advisable as Mr. Blackman might be
inclined to lean toward the side of the laboring men, and at a remark by "Governor" Clough,
formerly Governor of Minnesota and spokesman for the mill owners, to the effect that there
was nothing to be settled the suggestion was not considered further.

H. D. Cooley, special counsel for a number of the mills, Governor Clough, a prominent mill
owner, and others then addressed the meeting in furtherance of the plans already laid. Clough
asked McRae if he could handle the situation. McRae said he did not have enough deputies.

"Swear in the members of the Commercial Club, then!" demanded Clough. This was done. Nearly
two hundred of the men whose membership had been paid for by the mill owners "volunteered"
their services. McRae swore in a few and then, for the first time in his life, found swearing
a difficulty, so W. W. Blain, secretary of the Commercial Club, who was neither a city nor
a county official, administered the remainder of such oaths as were taken by the deputies.
The whole meeting was illegal.

From time to time the deputy force was added to until it ran way up in the hundreds. It was
divided into sections A, B, C, etc. Each division was assigned to a special duty, one to watch
incoming trains for free speech advocates, another to watch the boats for I. W. W. members,
and others for various duties such as deporting and beating up workers. This marked the beginning
of a reign of terror during which no propertyless worker or union sympathizer was safe from attack.

About this same time the Commercial Club made a pretense of investigating the shingle weavers'
strike. Not one of the strikers was called to give their side of the controversy, and J. G.
Brown, international president of the Shingle Weavers' Union, was refused permission to testify.
The committee claimed that the employers could not pay the wages asked. An adverse report was
returned and was adopted by the club.

Attorneys E. C. Dailey, Robert Fassett, and George Loutitt, along with a number of other fair
minded members who did not favor the open shop program, withdrew from membership on account
of these various actions. Their names were placed on the bulletin board and a boycott advised.
Feeling against the organization responsible for the chaotic conditions in Everett finally
became so strong that practically all of the merchants whose places were not mortgaged or who
were not otherwise dependent upon the whims of the lumber barons, posted notices in their windows,

     "WE ARE NOT MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL CLUB."

Their names, too, were placed on the bulletin board, and the boycott and other devices used
in an endeavor to force them into bankruptcy.

Prior to these occurrences and for some time thereafter, the club was addressed by emissaries
of the open shop interests. A. L. Veitch, special counsel for the Merchants' and Manufacturers'
Association, on one occasion addressed the deputies on labor troubles in San Francisco and
the methods used to handle them. Veitch was later one of the attorneys in the case against
Thomas H. Tracy, and he was employed by the state, it being stipulated that he receive no state
compensation. H. D. Cooley, lumber mill lawyer and former prosecuting attorney, also spoke
at different times on the open shop questions. Cooley was likewise an attorney for the prosecution
in the Tracy case and he, like Veitch, was retained by "interested parties." Cooley was one
of the anti-union speakers at a meeting of the deputies which was also addressed by F. C. Beach,
of San Francisco, president of the M. & M., Robert Moody, president of the First National Bank
of Everett, Governor Clough, mill magnate, F. K. Baker, president of the Commercial Club, and
Col. Roland H. Hartley, open shop candidate for the nomination as governor of Washington at
the pending election. Leigh Irvine, of Seattle, secretary of the Employers' Association, and
Murray, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, were also active in directing
the destinies of the Commercial Club.

A special open shop committee was formed, the nature of its operations being apparent when
the following two quotations from its minutes, taken from among others of similar purport,
are considered:

"Decided to go after advertisements in labor journals and the Northwestern Worker."[7]

"Matter of how far to go on open shop propaganda at the deputies meeting this morning was discussed.
Also the advisability of submitting pledges. Mr. Moody to take up matter of the legality of
pledges with Mr. Coleman. Note: At deputies meeting all speakers touched quite strongly on
the open shop, and as far as it was possible to see all in attendance seemed favorable."[8]

Just how far they finally did go is a matter of history. At the time, however, there were appropriations
made for the purchase of blackjacks, leaded clubs, guns and ammunition, and for the employment
of detectives, labor spies, and "agents provocateur."[9]

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Sunset Magazine, February 1917. "The I. W. W. and the Golden Rule."

[3] Supplemental report on "Everett's Industrial Warfare," by President Ernest P. Marsh to
State Federation of Labor convention held at Everett, Wash., from January 22 to 26, 1917.

[4] Vol. 9, No. 2, The Shingle Weaver, Special Convention Number, February, 1911.

[5] Proposition No. 5, submitted to referendum of membership of Pacific Coast District I. L.
A., Riggers and Stevedores Local 38, at their annual election on Jan. 6, 1916.

[6] Dreamland Rink Meeting, Seattle, Nov. 19th, over 5,000 in attendance.

[7] Minutes of Open Shop Committee, Sept. 27th.

[8] Minutes of Open Shop Committee, October 29.

[9] The incidents of the foregoing chapter are corroborated by the sworn testimony of prosecution
witnesses Donald McRae, sheriff of Snohomish County; and D. D. Merrill, Mayor of Everett; and
by witnesses called by the Defense, W. W. Blain, secretary of the Commercial Club: J. G. Brown,
International president of the Shingle Weavers' Union; W. H. Clay, Commissioner of Finance
in Everett; Robert Faussett, Everett attorney; Harry Feinberg, one of the defendants; Mrs.
Letelsia Fye, Everett citizen; Jake Michel, Secretary Everett Building Trades Council; Herbert
Mahler, Secretary Seattle I. W. W. and subsequently secretary of the Everett Prisoners' Defense
Committee; Robert Mills, business agent Everett Shingle Weavers' Union; James Orr, and Levi
Remick, I. W. W. members; James Rowan, I. W. W. organizer; and James P. Thompson, National
Organizer for the I. W. W. and a speaker of international reputation.

CHAPTER III.

A REIGN OF TERROR

No sooner had Mediator Blackman left Everett than the "law and order" forces resumed their
hostilities with a bitterness and brutality that seems almost incredible. On September 7th
Mrs. Frennette, H. Shebeck, Bob Adams, J. Johnson, J. Fred, and Dan Emmett were dragged from
the platform at Hewitt and Wetmore Avenues and were literally thrown into their cells. Next
morning Mrs. Frenette was released but the men were "kangarood" for 30 days each. Petty abuses
were heaped upon them and Johnson was cast into the "black hole" by the sheriff. Some of the
men were severely beaten just before their release a few days afterward.

When Fred Reed and James Dwyer were arrested the next night for street speaking, the crowd
of Everett citizens, in company with the few I. W. W. members present, followed the deputies
to the county jail, demanding the release of Reed, Dwyer and Peck, and those who had been arrested
the night before. In its surging to and from the crowd pushed over a post-rotted picket fence
that had been erected in the early days of Everett. This violence, together with cries of "You've
got the wrong bunch in jail! Let those men out and put the 'bulls' in!" was the basis from
which the trust-owned press built up a story of a riot and attempted jail delivery. On the
same flimsy basis a warrant was issued charging Mrs. Frennette with inciting a riot.

The free speech committee sent John Berg to Everett that same day to retain an attorney for
the men held without warrants. He secured the services of E. C. Dailey, and, while waiting
to learn the result of the lawyer's efforts, he went to the I. W. W. hall only to find it closed.
A man was there waiting to get his blankets to go to work and Berg volunteered to get them
for him. He then went to the county jail and asked for McRae. When McRae came in and learned
that Berg wanted to see the secretary in order to get the keys to the hall, he yelled out:

"You are another I. W. W. Throw him in jail, the old son-of-a-b----!"

Without having any charges placed against him, Berg was held until the next morning, when McRae
and a deputy took him out in a roadster to a lonely spot on the county road. Forcing him to
dismount, McRae ordered Berg to walk to Seattle under threats of death if he returned, and
then knocked Berg down and kicked him in the groin as he lay prostrate. McRae was drunk. Berg
subsequently developed a severe rupture as a result of this treatment. He managed to make his
way to Seattle and in spite of his condition returned to Everett that same night.

Undaunted by their previous deportations, and determined to circumvent the deputies who were
seizing men from the railroad trains and regular boats, a body of free speech fighters, on
September 9th, took the train to Mukilteo, a village about four miles from Everett, and there,
by pre-arrangement, were taken aboard the launch "Wanderer."

The little boat would not hold the entire party and six men were towed behind in a large dory.
There were 17 first class life preservers on board, the captain borrowing some to supplement
his equipment.

When the "Wanderer" reached a point about a mile and a half from the Weyerhouser dock a boat
was seen approaching. It was the scab tug "Edison," belonging to the American Tugboat Company.
On board was Captain Harry Ramwell, Sheriff McRae and a body of about sixty deputies. When
the "Edison" was about 200 feet away the sheriff commenced shooting--but let Captain Jack Mitten
tell his own story.

"The first shot went over the bow. I don't know whether there was one or two shots fired, then
there was a shot struck right over my head onto the big cast iron muffler. The next shot came
on thru the boat,--I had my bunk strapped up against the wall,--and thru the blanket,--and
the cotton in the blanket turned the bullet,--and it struck flat on the bottom of the bunk.

"I shut the engine down and went out to the stern door and just as I stepped out there was
a shot went right by my head and at the same time McRae hollered out and says 'You son-of-a-b--,
you come over here!' Says I, "If you want me, you come over here." With that they brought their
boat and my boat up together. Six shots in all were fired.

"McRae commenced to take the people off the boat and when he had them all off he kicked the
pilot house open and says, 'Oho, there is a woman here!' Mrs. Frennette was sitting in the
pilot house. Anyhow, they took her and he says, 'You'll get a one piece suit on McNeil's island
for this,' and then he says to Cap Ramwell--Cap Ramwell was sitting on the side--'This is Oscar
Lindstrom, drag him along too.'

"Then they were going to make fast the line--they had made fast my stern line--and as I bent
over with the line McRae struck me with his revolver on the back of the head, and when I straightened
up he struck me in here, a revolver about that long. (Indicating.) I said something to him
and then he ran the revolver right in here in my groin and he ruptured me at the same time.
I told him 'It's a fine way of using a citizen.' He says, 'You're a hell of a citizen, bringing
in a bunch like that,' he says, 'to cause a riot in this town.' I says, 'Well, they are all
union men anyway.' He says, 'You shut your damn head or I will knock it clean off!' and I guess
he would, because he had whiskey enough in him at the time to do it.

"There was a small man, I believe they call him Miller, he saw him standing there and he says,
'You here, too?' and he hauled off and struck him in the temple and the blood flowed way down
over his face and shirt. He struck him again and staggered him. If he hadn't struck him so
he would have gone inboard, he would have gone over the edge, close to the edge.

"Then there was a man by the name of Berg, it seemed he knowed John Berg. He said, 'You ----,
I will fix you so you will never come back!' and then he went at Berg, but Berg was foxy and
kept ducking his head. He rapped him on the shoulders two or three different times, I wouldn't
say how often, but he didn't draw blood on Berg. (An I. W. W. member named Kurgvel was also
beaten on the head and shoulders.)

"They drove us all in alongside of the boiler between the decks, down on the main deck of the
"Edison" and kept us there till they docked and got automobiles and the patrol wagon and filed
us off into them and took us to jail."

The arrest of Captain Mitten and acting engineer Oscar Lindstrom made twenty-one prisoners
in all, and these were jailed without any charge being placed against them. As Berg was taken
into the jail, McRae cursed him roundly, ordering two deputies to hold him while a beating
was administered over the shoulders and back with a leather strap loaded with lead on the tip.

The men were treated with great brutality within the jail. One young fellow was asked by the
deputies, "Are you an I. W. W.?" and each time the lad answered "Yes!" he was thrown violently
against the steel walls of the cell, until his body was a mass of bruises. Mitten was denied
a chance to communicate with his Everett friends in order to get bail. The nights were cold
and the prisoners had to sleep on the bare floor without blankets.

At the end of nine days all the men were offered their liberty except Mitten. They promptly
refused the offer. "All or none!" was their indignant demand, and Peck and Mitten were set
at liberty with the rest as a result of this show of solidarity.

Upon his release Captain Mitten found that the life preservers had been stolen from his boat,
and the flattened bullet removed from his bunk. Scotty Fife, the Port Captain of the American
Tugboat Company, told Captain Mitten that he had straightened up the things on the "Wanderer!"

Thus to the crimes of unlawful arrest, false imprisonment, theft, deportation, assault and
physical injury, the lumber trust added that of piracy on the high seas. And all this was but
a taste of what was yet to come!

Organizer James Rowan returned to Everett from Anacortes on the afternoon of September 11th
and was met at the depot by three deputies who promptly took him to the county jail. There
were at that time between thirty and forty other members of the I. W. W. being unlawfully held.
Rowan learned that these men had been taken from their cells one at a time and beaten by the
deputies, Thorne and Dunn having especially severe cuts on the face and head.

Rowan's story of the outrage that followed gives a glimpse of the methods employed by the lumber
trust.

"As soon as I dropped off the train at Everett I was met by three deputies. One of them told
me the sheriff wanted to see me and I asked if he was a deputy. He said, 'Yes,' and showed
me a badge. Then I went up with two of the deputies to the county jail. In a minute or two
Sheriff McRae came in and he was pretty drunk. He caught hold of me and gave me a yank forward,
and he says, 'So you are back, eh?' and I says 'Yes.' And he says 'We are going to fix you
so you won't come back any more.' There was some more abusive talk and then I was searched
and put in a cell.

"Just after dark that night I was taken out of the cell, my stuff was given back, and McRae
says, 'We are going to start you on the road to Seattle.' With a deputy he took me out to the
automobile and McRae drove the automobile, and we had some conversation. McRae seemed to feel
very sore because I told the people on the street that the jail was lousy, and he says 'We
wanted you to get out of here and you would not do it, and now,' he says, 'Now instead of dealing
with officers you have to deal with a bunch of boob citizens, and there is no telling what
these boobs will do.' There was more talk that is not worth repeating and most of it not fit
to repeat anyhow.

"We went out in the country until we came to where the road crosses the interurban tracks about
two miles from Silver Lake and McRae told me to get out. He then pointed down the track and
says, 'There is the road to Seattle and you beat it!' so I started down the track.

"I hadn't gone far, maybe 50 or 75 yards, when I met a bunch of gunmen. They came at me with
guns. They had clubs and they started to beat me up on the head with the butts of their guns
and with the clubs. They all had handkerchiefs over their face except one. They threw a cloth
over my head and beat me some more on the head with their gun butts and then they dragged me
thru the fence at the right-of-way and went a little ways back into the woods. Then they held
me down over a log about eighteen inches or two feet in diameter. There were about a dozen
of them I would say. Two or three held each arm and two or three each leg and there were four
or five of them holding guns around my ribs--they had the guns close around my ribs all the
time, several of them--and they tore my clothes off, tore my shirt and coat off. Then one of
them beat me on the back, on the bare back with some kind of a sap, I don't know just what
kind it was, but I could hear him grunt every time he was going to strike a blow. I was struck
fifty times or more.

"After he got thru beating me they went back to the fence toward the road and I picked up my
scattered belongings and went down to Silver Lake, taking the first car to Seattle."

Rowan exhibited his badly lacerated and bruised back to several prominent Seattle citizens,
and then had a photograph made, which was widely circulated. Contrary to the expectation of
the lumber barons this treatment did not deter free speech fighters from carrying on the struggle.
Instead, it brought fresh bodies of free speech enthusiasts to the scene within a short period.

The personnel of the free speech committee changed continually because of the arrest of its
members. On Sunday, September 10th, at a mass meeting in Seattle Harry Feinberg and William
Roberts were elected to serve. Roberts had just come down from Port Angeles and desired to
investigate conditions at first hand, so in company with Feinberg he went to Everett on the
11th. They met Jake Michel, who telephoned to Chief of Police Kelley for permission to hold
a street meeting.

"I have no objection to this meeting," replied Kelley, "but wait a minute, you had better call
up McRae and find out."

Attempts to reach McRae at the Commercial Club and the sheriff's office met with failure. Meanwhile
Feinberg had gone ahead with the meeting, the following being his sworn statement of what transpired:

"I went to Everett at 7:30 Monday night. I got a box and opened a meeting for the I. W. W.
There must have been three thousand people on the corner, against buildings and looking out
of the windows.

"I spoke about 35 minutes, with the crowd boisterous in their applause. Three companies of
deputies and vigilantes, about one hundred and fifty thugs in all, marched down the street
and divided up in three companies. One of the deputies came up and told me he wanted me and
grabbed me off the box.

"They took me up to the jail, took my description, and my money and valuables, which were not
returned. By that time Fellow Worker Roberts was brought in. A drunken deputy came in and grabbed
me by the coat and dragged me out of the jail, with the evident permission of the officers.
The vigilantes proceeded to beat me up on the jail steps. There were anyway fifty deputies
waiting outside and all of them crowded to get a chance to hit me. They gave me a chance to
get away finally and shot after me, or in the air, I could not tell which, but I was not hit
by the bullets."

The sworn statement of William Roberts corroborated the foregoing:

"I took the box after Fellow Worker Feinberg had been arrested. The crowd were extreme in their
hostility to the lawlessness of the officers. I told them to keep cool, that the I. W. W. would
handle the situation, in their own time and way. They arrested me, and, right there, they clubbed
me on the head. They brought me to the jail, where Feinberg was at the desk. They took me out
of the jail and threw me into the bunch of vigilantes with clubs. They started beating me around
the body. One of them said: 'Do anything, but don't kill him!'

"Finally one of them hit me on the head and I came out of it and as I was getting away they
shot in the air. A bunch of them then jumped into an automobile, came after me and again clubbed
me. One of them knocked me out for ten minutes, according to one of the women who were watching.

"While we were in the jail, two men we did not know were brought into the jail with their heads
cut open. The vigilantes were clubbing women right and left, and a young girl, about eight
years of age, had her head cut open by one of Sheriff McRae's Commercial Club tools."

Roberts ran down the street to the interurban depot, where he hid behind a freight car until
just before the car left for Seattle. Feinberg, with his face and clothing covered with blood,
got on the same car about a mile and a half from Everett and the two returned to Seattle.

John Ovist, a resident of Mukilteo who had joined the I. W. W. in Everett on Labor Day, got
on the box and said, "Fellow comrades----" but got no further. He was knocked from the box.
Ovist states: "Mr. Henig was standing alongside of me when Sheriff McRae came up and cracked
him over the forehead with a club. I don't know what else happened to him for just then Sheriff
McRae came in front of me and pushed the fellow off the box. When the two fellows were arrested
I started to speak and McRae took me and turned me over to one of them--I don't know what you
call them--deputies, or whatever they are. He had a white handkerchief around his neck and
he took me toward the county jail. There was a policeman standing in front of the jail. If
I am not mistaken his name is Ryan, a short heavy-set fellow. I walked by him. Of course, I
never thought he was going to hit me, but I felt something over behind. He hit me with a club
behind the ear and cut my head until it was bleeding awful."

"When we came to the county jail, Henig, he was in there already. His face was red and he was
full of blood. And they took us into the toilet to have us wash the blood off, and when I came
back I heard screams and pounding.

"Then the sheriff recognized me, he had been down in Mukilteo before, and he says, 'What are
you doing up here?' I said, 'Well, I didn't come up here, they brought me up here.' He says,
'You are a member of the I. W. W., too.' So I told him, 'I don't see why I should come and
ask you what organization I should belong to!' So he opened the gate and says, 'Here is a fellow
from Mukilteo,' he says. 'Beat it!' And I seen, I guess--a hundred and fifty or maybe two hundred,
I didn't have time to count them, right out back of the jail lined up in lines on either side.
And I had to run between them and come out the other end. They banged me on the head with clubs,
and all over. I looked bad and I felt worse. I had blue marks on my shoulders and on my hips
and under my knees.

"I got thru them and there was a couple ran after me, but I beat it ahead of them. I guess
they intended to club me. I ran down to that depot where the electric car goes thru to Seattle
and then I turned to look around because the car was at Hewitt and Colby, and as I went down
the walk two men stopped me and asked me if I hadn't had enough. They told me to beat it, and
as I turned around the same policeman, Ryan, I think his name is, hit me on the forehead and
then pulled his gun and said, 'Beat it!' He was drunk and they were all swearing at me.

"After I got a block or so, there were two or three shots. I walked two more blocks and then
was so dizzy I had to rest. Finally I walked further and an automobile came past me and I tried
to holler but they didn't hear me. And then I walked a little further and the stage came along
and they picked me up."

Eye witnesses declared that officer Daniels was one of those who fired shots at the fleeing
men after they had been forced to run the gauntlet.

Frank Henig, an Everett citizen, tells what happened in these words:

"I will start from the time I left the house. My wife and I, and the little baby were going
to the show. When we got on Wetmore there was a big crowd standing there. I had worked the
night before in the mill and I had cedar asthma, so I said to my wife, 'I would like to stay
out in the fresh air,' And she said, 'All right, I will meet you at nine o'clock at Wetmore
and Hewitt.'

"There was quite a crowd and I got up pretty close in front so I could hear the speaker. I
stood there a little while and finally the sheriff came along with a bunch of deputies, and
the speaker said, 'Here they come, but now people, I will tell you, don't start anything, let
them start it.'

"They took him off the box and arrested a couple of others with him, and then immediately after
that the Commercial Club deputies came along in a row. They had white handkerchiefs around
their necks. So I looked out there and the crowd commenced to yell and cheer like, and McRae
got excited and started toward me, saying, 'We have been looking for you before.' When he said
that I stopped--before that I had tried to get farther back--I stopped and he got hold of me.
Meanwhile Commissioner Kelley came up and took care of me and McRae walked away a little way.
Kelley had hold of my right arm and he pinched me a little bit, and I said 'Let go Kelley and
I will go with you.'

"We stood there a few minutes longer and McRae came back. Kelley said 'Come along with me,'
and just as I said 'All right,' McRae grabbed me by the coat and hit me on the head with a
black club fastened to his strap with a leather thong. I was looking right at him and he knocked
me unconscious. Then Kelley picked me up and shook me and I came to again, and I fell over
the curb of the sidewalk.

"Kelley then turned me over to Daniels, a policeman in Everett, and he turned me over to a
couple of Commercial Club deputies. Then Fred Luke came along and said, 'I will take care of
him.' So we walked a little ways and he said, 'You better go to the doctor and have that dressed.'
I said to him, 'Oh, I guess it ain't so bad,' and so he said, 'Come along with me and we will
wash up at the jail.' I said, 'All right,' and while I was going up the steps to the jail,
why a policeman by the name of Bryan or something like that,--a little short fellow, well anyhow
he got canned off the force for being drunk, that is how I heard of him,--when I was kind of
slow walking along because I was bleeding pretty bad, he said, 'Hurry up and get in there,
you low-down, dirty son-of-a-b----' And I answered, 'I guess I ain't arrested, I don't have
to hurry in there.' So he cursed some more.

"I went into the jail and washed up and came back into the office of the county jail. The fellows
that they had arrested were sitting in the chairs and McRae came in and grabbed one of the
I. W. W.'s--I guess they were I. W. W.'s, anyway one of them that was arrested--and he says,
'What in hell are you doing up here, don't you know I told you to keep away from here?' and
while he was going in the door into the back office I saw him haul off with his sap, but I
don't see him hit him, but the little fellow cried like a baby.

"McRae came back and he looked at me and said, 'What in hell are you doing up here?' I didn't
know what to say for a little while and then I said, 'I didn't do nothing, Mac, I don't see
what you wanted to sap me for.' And he said, 'I didn't sap you,' he said, 'Kelley hit you.'
Then I said to him, 'My wife says for me to meet her down at the corner of Wetmore and Hewitt
at nine o'clock and I would like to go down there and meet her.' So he said, 'All right, you
go; you hurry and go.' I was going out the front door and he said, 'No, don't go out there.
If you go out there, they will kill you!' He led me to the back door of the jail, I don't know
where it was, I never was in jail in my life before, and he said, 'Hurry and beat it, and pull
your hat down over your head so they wont know you.' But when I got to town everybody knew,
because there was blood still running all over my face after I washed up."

Henig endeavored to prosecute McRae for his illegal and unwarranted assault but all attempts
to secure a warrant met with failure. Lumber trust law operates only in one direction.

In this raid upon the meeting McRae smashed citizens right and left, women as well as men.
He was even seen to kick a small boy who happened to get in his path. Deputy Sam Walker beat
up Harry Woods, an Everett music teacher; another deputy was seen smashing an elderly gentleman
on the head; still another knocked Mrs. Louise McGuire, who was just recovering from a sprained
knee, into the gutter; and Ed Morton, G. W. Carr and many other old-time residents of Everett
were struck by the drunken Commercial Club thugs.

Mrs. Leota Carr called up Chief of Police Kelley next morning, the following being an account
of the conversation that ensued:

"I said, 'What are you trying to kill my husband for?' and he kind of laughed and said he didn't
believe it, and I said, 'Did you know they struck him over the head last night and he could
hardly go to work today?' He said, 'My God, they didn't strike him, did they?' and I said,
'They surely did!' And he said 'Why there isn't a better man in town than he is,' and I said,
'I know it.' It surprised me to think that he thought I didn't know it myself. And then I said,
'These here deputies are making more I. W. W.'s in town than the I. W. W.'s would in fifty
years.' And he said, 'I know it.' Then I said, 'Why do you allow them to do it? You are the
head of the police department.' He replied, 'McRae has taken it out of my hands; the sheriff
is ahead of me and it is his men who are doing it, and I am not to blame.'"

At the city park four nights after this outrage, only one arrest for street speaking having
occurred in the meantime, the aroused citizens of Everett met to hear Attorney E. C. Dailey,
T. Webber, and various local speakers deal with the situation, and to view at first hand the
wounds of Ovist, Henig and other towns people who had been injured. Thousands attended the
meeting, and disapproval of the actions of the Commercial Club and its tools was vehemently
expressed.

This remonstrance from the people had some effect. The Commercial Club, knowing that all arrests
so far had been unlawful, took steps to "legalize" any further seizing of street speakers at
Hewitt and Wetmore Avenues. The lumber interests issued an ordinance preventing street speaking
on that corner. The Mayor signed it without ever putting it to a reading, thus invalidating
the proposed measure. This made no difference; henceforth it was a law of the city of Everett
and as such was due to be enforced by the lumber trust.

During the whole controversy there had not been an arrest made on the charge of violation of
any street speaking ordinance. With the new ordinance assumed to be a law, Mrs. Frennette went
to Everett and interviewed Chief Kelley. After telling him that the I. W. W. members were being
disturbed and mistreated by men who were not in uniform, she said:

"It seems that there is an ordinance here against street speaking and we feel that it is unjust.
We feel that we have a right to speak here. We are not blocking traffic and we propose to make
a test of the ordinance. Will you have one of your men arrest me or any other speaker who chooses
to take the box, personally, and bring me to jail and put a charge against me, and protect
me from the vigilantes who are beating the men on the street?"

Kelley replied that so far as he was concerned he would do the best he could but McRae had
practically taken the authority out of his hands and that he really could not guarantee protection.
So a legal test was practically denied.

Quiet again reigned in Everett following the brutalities cited. A few citizens were manhandled
for too openly expressing their opinion of mob methods and several wearers of overalls were
searched and deported, but the effects of bootleg whiskey seemed to have left the vigilantes.

On Wednesday, Sept. 20th, a committee of 2000 citizens met at the Labor Temple and arranged
for a mass meeting to be held in the public park on the following Friday. The meeting brought
forth between ten and fifteen thousand citizens, one-third of the total population at least,
who listened to speakers representing the I. W. W., Socialists, trades unions and citizens
generally. Testimony was given by some of the citizens who had been clubbed by the vigilantes.
Recognizing the hostile public opinion, Sheriff McRae promised that the office of the I. W.
W. would not again be molested. As he had lied before he was not believed, but, as a test,
Earl Osborne went from Seattle to open up the hall once more.

For a period thereafter the energies of the deputies were given to a course of action confined
to the outskirts of the city. Migratory workers traveling to and from various jobs were taken
from the trains, beaten, robbed and deported. As an example of McRae's methods and as depicting
a phase of the life of the migratory worker the story of "Sergeant" John J. Keenan, sixty-five
years old, and still actively at work, is of particular interest:

"I left Great Falls, Mont., about the 5th of September after I had been working on a machine
in the harvest about nine miles from town. The boys gathered together--they were coming from
North Dakota--and we all came thru together. We had an organization among ourselves. We carried
our cards. There was a delegate with us, a field delegate, and I was spokesman, elected by
the rank and file of the twenty-two. There was another division from North Dakota on the same
train with us, going to Wenatchee to pick apples. We were going to Seattle. I winter in Seattle
every year and work on the snow sheds.

"We carried our cooking utensils with us, and when we got off at a station we sent our committee
of three and bought our provisions in the store, and two of the cooks cooked the food, and
we ate it and took the next train and came on. This happened wherever we stopped.

"We arrived in Snohomish, Wash., on Sept. 23rd at about 8:45 in the morning. When the committee
came down I sent out and they brought me back the bills--I was the treasurer as well--one man
carried the funds, and they brought back $4.90 worth of food down, including two frying pans,
and when I was about cooking, a freight train from Everett pulled in and a little boy, who
was maybe about ten years old, he says, 'Dad, are you an I. W. W.?' I says, 'I am, son.' 'Well,'
he says, 'there are a whole bunch of deputies coming out after you.' I laughed at the boy,
I thought he was joshing me.

"About half an hour after the boy told me this the deputies appeared. In the first bunch were
forty-two, and then Sheriff McRae came with more, making altogether, what I counted, sixty-four.
The first bunch came around the bush alongside the railroad track where I was and the sheriff
came in about twenty minutes later with his bunch from the opposite way.

"In the first bunch was a fat, stout fellow with two guns. He had a chief's badge--a chief
of police's badge--on him. He was facing toward the fire and he says, 'If you move a step,
I will fill you full of lead!' I laughed at him, says I, 'What does this outrage mean?' There
was another old gentleman with a chin beard, fat, middling fat, probably my own age, and he
picked up my coat which was lying alongside me and looked at my button. He says, 'Oh, undesirable
citizen!' I says, 'What do you mean?' He says, 'Are you an I. W. W.?' I says, 'I am, and I
am more than proud of it!' 'Well,' he says, 'we don't want you in this county.' I says, 'Sure?'
He says, 'Yes.' I says, 'Well, I am not going to stay in this county, I am going to cook breakfast
and go to Seattle.' He says, 'Do you understand what this means?' I says, 'No.' He says, 'The
sheriff will be here in a few minutes and he will tell you what it means.' I heard afterward
that this man was the mayor of Snohomish.

"I was sitting right opposite the fire with my coffee and bread and meat in my hand when Sheriff
McRae came up and says, 'Who is this bunch?' So a tall, black deputy, a tall, dark complected
fellow, says, 'They are a bunch of harvest hands coming from North Dakota.' McRae says, 'Did
you search these men?' And he says, 'Yes.' 'Did you find any shooting arms on them?' He says,
'No.' They had searched us and we had no guns or clubs.

"McRae then asked, 'Who is their leader?' and this old gentleman that spoke to me first, he
says, 'They have no leader, but that old man over there is the spokesman.' So he came over
to me and says, 'Where are you going?' I says, 'I am going to Seattle.' Then he used an expression
that I don't think is fit for ladies to hear. I says, 'My mother was a lady and she never raised
any of us by the name you have mentioned, and,' I says, 'I don't think I have done anything
that I will have to walk out of the county.' He says, 'Do you see that track?' I says, 'Yes.'
He says, 'Well, you will walk down that track!' I says, 'But for these twenty-one men that
are here in my hands I wouldn't walk a foot for you.' He says, 'You get out. I am going to
shoot all these things to pieces.' I says, 'You will shoot nothing to pieces, I bought them
with my hard-earned money.' He says, 'All right, take them with you.' Then he shot up the cans
and things, and he says, 'That is the track to Seattle and you go up it, and if I ever catch
you in this county again you will get what you are looking for.'

"So we walked up the hill toward Seattle and there is a town, I think they call it Maltby,
and we got there between four and five o'clock in the evening. Fellow Worker Thornton, Adams
and Love were the committee men and they asked me how I felt. I told them my feet were pretty sore.

"I went over to the station agent and found out that there was a freight due at 9:30 but that
sometimes it didn't get in until three in the morning. I then asked permission to light a fire
and cook some coffee, and after we were thru eating we lay down.

"About 9:30 the train came along and I called the men. As the train was backing up I saw some
light come, and one auto throwing her searchlight, and I counted four automobiles. That is
all I could count but there were a whole lot of them coming. I says, 'Men, we have run up against
a stone wall.'

"Fellow Worker Love and I--he came off the machine with me in Great Falls--we were first in
line and Sheriff McRae and two other men with white handkerchiefs around their necks came forward
first and he says, 'You son-of-a-b----, I thought you were going to Seattle?' I says, 'Ain't
I going to Seattle? I can't go till the train goes,' I says, 'you've had me walking now till
I have no foot under me. What do you mean by this outrage? My father fought for this country
and I have a right here. I am on railroad property and have done nothing to anybody.' McRae
then hit Fellow Worker Love on the head and I yelled 'Break and run, men, or they will kill
you!' He turned around then and he said to me, 'You dirty old Irish bastard, now I will make
you so you can't run. I'll show you!' With that he let drive and hit me, leaving this three
cornered mark here (indicating place on head). And when the others went up the track he says,
'Get now, God damn your old soul, or I will kill you!' I says, 'Sheriff, look here, you are
a perfect gentleman, you are, to hit a fellow old enough to be your father.' He made as if
to hit me again and then Fellow Worker Love came back and says, 'Have a heart!' I says 'You
run,' and he says 'No, they are not going to kill you while I am here.' And Fellow Worker Paterson
came back down the track and I says, 'What is the matter, Paterson, are you crazy? Get the
men and tell them to go over the line. Don't stay in this county or they are liable to murder
you!' Then Love and I went off the track into the thick bushes and lay down till next morning.

"At daylight we got up, went down to the junction and gathered up fifteen of the men. When
the train pulled in the trainman asked me where I was going and I said I was going to Seattle.
He says, 'Do you carry a card?' 'Yes,' says I. 'Produce!' says he. That is the word the trainmen
use. So I put my hand in my pocket and pulled it out. 'You better get back in the caboose,
you are hurt,' he said. He saw the blood where Fellow Worker Love had bandaged my head with
his handkerchief. 'No,' says I, 'Where the men are riding is good enough for me.' So we went
to where the interurban comes in and I was seven men short. I paid two-fifty into Seattle,
and we came in, and I made a report to the Seattle locals."

Incidents similar to this were of almost daily occurrence, scores of deportations taking place
during the month of September. Then on the 26th, despite his promises to refrain from molesting
the hall, McRae entered the premises, forcibly seized Earl Osborne, the secretary, took him
a long distance out in the country, and at the point of a gun made him start the thirty-mile
trip on foot to Seattle. On the 29th of September the Everett authorities arrested J. Johnson
and George Bradley in Seattle. Johnson was held on an arson charge but no legal warrant for
his arrest was issued until October 17th, or until he had been in jail for nineteen days. Then
the charge against him was that he had set fire to a box factory--but this was soon changed
when it was learned by the authorities that the box factory had not caught fire until after
Johnson was in jail, and for the first charge they substituted the claim that Johnson had burned
the garage of one Walter Smith, a scab shingle weaver deputy. George Bradley, who had been
deported from Everett after having served one day as secretary, was accused of second degree
arson as an alleged accomplice. Each man was told that the other had confessed and the best
thing to do was to make a clean breast of matters, but this scheme of McRae's fell thru for
two reasons: the men were not guilty, and they had never seen or heard of each other before.
Johnson was in jail fifty-eight days without a preliminary hearing. Both men were released
on property bonds, and the trials were "indefinitely postponed," that still being their status
at this writing.

No further attempts were made to open the hall after Osborne's deportation until October 16th
when the organization in Seattle again selected a man to act as secretary in Everett. Thomas
H. Tracy took charge on that date, remaining in Everett until a few days prior to November
5th, at which time he resigned, his place being taken by Chester Micklin.

During the month of October there were between three and four hundred deportations, the vigilantes
operating mainly from the Commercial Club. Many of these "slugging parties" were attended by
Mayor D. D. Merrill, Governor Clough, Captain Harry Ramwell, T. W. Anguish, W. R. Booth, Edward
Hawse, and other "pillars of society" in Everett. Most of the men were deported without any
formalities whatever, and the methods used in handling the others may well be judged by frequent
entries on the police blotter to the effect that men arrested by Great Northern detective Fox
were ordered turned over to Sheriff McRae by Mayor Merrill. The railroad company, acting in
conjunction with the lumber trust, put on a private army, and had its men roughly dressed to
resemble honest workingmen. Cases of "hi-jacking" became quite numerous about this time, but
no redress from this highway robbery could be had.

On the question of the hiring of armed forces by the railroads the Industrial Relations Commission
Report has this to say:

     "Under the authority granted by the several states the railroads
     maintain a force of police, and some, at least, have established
     large arsenals of arms and ammunition. This armed force, when
     augmented by recruits from detective agencies and employment
     agencies, as seems to be the general practice during industrial
     disputes, constitutes a private army clothed with a degree of
     authority which should be exercised only by public officials; these
     armed bodies, usurping the supreme functions of the state and
     oftentimes encroaching on the rights of citizens, are a distinct
     menace to public welfare."

A number of the men deported during September and October were not members of the I. W. W.,
some even being opposed at the time to the tenet of the organization, "The working class and
the employing class have nothing in common," but almost without exception the non-members who
suffered deportation made it a point to join the union when the nearest branch or field delegate
was reached. In Everett, delegates working quietly among the millmen, longshoremen, and other
workers, were also getting numerous recruits as the class struggle stood forth in its naked
form. All the efforts of the lumber trust to suppress the I. W. W. were as tho they had tried
to quench a forest fire with gasoline.

It was on October 30th that forty-one men left Seattle by boat in a determined effort to reach
the corner of Hewitt and Wetmore Avenues in order to test the validity of the alleged ordinance
prohibiting free speech at that point. They were the first contingent of an army of harvesters
who were just returning from a hard season's labor in the fields and orchards. The party was
double the size of any free speech group that had tried to enter Everett at any previous time.

They were met at the dock by a drunken band of deputies, most of whom wore white handkerchiefs
around their necks as a means of identification. The deputies were armed with guns and clubs,
and they outnumbered the I. W. W. body five to one. Several of the lawless crew were so intoxicated
they could scarcely stand, and one in particular had to be forcibly restrained by his less
drunken associates from attempts to commit murder in the open. The I. W. W. men were clubbed
with gun butts and loaded clubs whenever their movements were not swift enough to suit the
fancies of the drunken mob. John Downs' face was an indistinguishable mass of blood where Sheriff
McRae had "sapped up" on him and split open his upper lip. Boat passengers who remonstrated
were promised the same treatment unless they kept still. In its mad frenzy the posse struck
in all directions. So blindly drunk and hysterical was deputy Joseph Irving that he swung his
heavy revolver handle with full force onto the head of deputy Joe Schofield. He continued the
insane attack, while McRae, awry-eyed and lusting for blood, assisted in the brutal task until
warning cried from the other vigilantes showed them their mistake. Schofield was carried to
an automobile and hastened to the nearest drug store, where it was found necessary to call
a physician to take three stitches to bind together the edges of the most severe wound.

The prisoners were loaded into large auto trucks and passenger cars, more than twenty of which
were lined up in waiting, and were taken out to a lonely wooded spot near Beverly Park on the
road to Seattle. McRae, with deputies Fred Luke, William Pabst and Fred Plymale, took one I.
W. W. out in their five-passenger Reo, McRae afterward endeavored unsuccessfully to prove an
alibi because his own car was in a garage. Deputy Sheriff Jefferson Beard also took out a prisoner.

Upon their arrival at Beverly the prisoners were made to dismount at the point of guns and
stand in the cold drizzling rain until their captors had formed two lines reaching from the
roadway to the interurban tracks. There in the darkness the men were forced to run stumbling
over the uneven ground down a gauntlet that ended only with the cruel sharp blades of a cattle
guard, while on their unprotected heads and shoulders the drunken outlaws rained blow after
blow with gun-butts, black-jacks, loaded saps and pick-handles. In the confusion one boy escaped
from Ed Hawse, but before he could get away into the brush this bully, weighing about 260 pounds,
bore down upon him, and with a couple of other deputies proceeded to beat him well-nigh into
insensibility. Deputies who lost their clubs in the scramble aimed kicks at the privates of
the men as they passed down the line. Deputy Fred Luke swung at one man with such force that
the leather wrist thong parted and the club disappeared into the woods. With drunken deliberation
Joseph Irving cracked the head of man after man, informing each one that they were getting
an extra dose because of his mistake in beating up a brother deputy. In the thick of it all,
smashing, kicking, and screaming obscene curses at the helpless men and boys who dared demand
free speech within the territory sacred to the lumber trust, was the deputy-sheriff of Snohomish
County, Jefferson E. Beard!

A few of the men broke the lines and ran into the woods, a bullet past their heads warning
others from a like attempt. Across the cattle guard, often sprawling on hands and knees from
the force of the last blows received, went the men who had cleared the gauntlet. Legs sank
between the blades of the guard and strained ligaments and sprained ankles were the result.
One man suffered a dislocated shoulder at the hands of a Doctor Allison, another had the bridge
of his nose broken by a blow from McRae, and dangerously severe wounds and bruises were sustained
by nearly all of the forty-one.

So horrible were the moans and outcries of the stricken men, so bestial were the actions of
the infuriated deputies, that one of their own number, W. R. Booth, sickened at the sight and
sound, went reeling up the roadway retching as he left the brutal scene.

Attracted by the curses of the deputies, the sound of the blows, and the moans and cries of
the wounded men, Mrs. Ruby Ketchum came to the door of her house nearly a quarter of a mile
away, and remained there listening to the hideous din, while her husband, Roy Ketchum, and
his brother, Lew, went down to the scene of the outrage to investigate. The Ketchum brothers
reported that the deputies were formed in two lines ending in six men, three on each side of
the cattle guard. A man would be taken out of the car and two deputies would join his arms
up behind him meanwhile hammering his unprotected face from both sides as hard as they could
strike with their fists. Then the man was started down the line, one deputy following to club
him on the back to make him hurry, and the other deputies striking with clubs and other weapons
and kicking the prisoner as he progressed. Just before reaching the cattle guard he was made
to run, and, in crossing the blades, the three men on the east side of the track would swing
their clubs upon his back while the men on the west clubbed him across the face and stomach.
This was repeated with the men as fast as they were dragged from the autos. They also heard
the sound of blows and then cries of "Oh my God! Doc, don't hit me again, doc, you're killing
me!" Lew Ketchum took deputy Fred Luke by the coat tails and pulled him back from the cattle
guard, asking, "What are you doing, what is going on here?" and Luke replied, "We are beating
up forty-one I. W. W.'s."

Harry Hubbard tells the story in these words from the time the autos arrived at Beverly:

"I got out of the car with another fellow, Rice, and I says, 'We had better stay together,
it looks to me like we were going to get tamped up,' and somebody grabbed hold of him, and
I stood a minute, and then I ran by one fellow up into the woods. Just as I got out of the
radius of the automobile lights I fell over a stump on the edge of the embankment. I was in
kind of a peculiar predicament and I had to get hold of the stump to pull myself up, and just
as I did that some fellow behind me swung with a blackjack and grazed my temple, knocking me
to my knees. I got up and he grabbed hold of me and we both fell down the bank together. Then
two or three others grabbed me, and this Hawse had me by the collar, and Sheriff McRae walked
up and said 'You are the son-of-a---- that was over here last week,' and I answered, 'I was
working here last week.' Then he said, 'Are you an I. W. W.?' I said, 'Yes,' and he hit me
an upward swing on the nose. He repeated, 'You are an I. W. W., are you?' and again I said,
'Yes.' He then swore at me and said, 'Say that you ain't!' and I replied, 'No, I won't say
that I ain't,' and he hit me three more times on the nose.

"Then the man who was holding my left wrist with one hand and my shoulder with the other, said,
'Wait a minute until I get a poke at him,' and McRae said, 'All right, doc,' and then someone
else said 'All right Allison, hit him for me!' This fellow they called Doc Allison hit me and
blackened my eye. McRae swore at me, he seemed to be intoxicated and he looked and acted like
a maniac, he said 'If you fellows ever come back some of you will die, that's all there is
to it.' I said, 'I don't think there is any necessity for killing anybody,' and he answered
'I will kill you if you come back,' and he raised his blackjack and said 'Run!' I said 'I wont
run,' and he hit me again and I dropped to the ground. He raised his foot over my face, and
used some pretty raw language, and as he stood there with his heel over my face I grabbed hold
of a fellow's leg and pulled myself along so instead of hitting my face his heel scraped my
side. Then I got some kicks, three of them in the small of the back around my kidneys.

"When I got up I walked thru the line, there were twenty or thirty different ones hollered
for me to run, but I was stubborn and wouldn't do it. And when I got to the cattle guard and
stood at the other side kind of wiping the blood off my face I heard some one coming and I
said, 'Four Hundred," and he said 'Yes,' and he was crying. It was a young boy and I walked
down the track with him afterward.

"At the City Hospital in Seattle next day the doctor told me my nose was badly fractured and
that I had internal injuries. A few days later my back pained me severely and I passed blood
for a time after that."

C. H. Rice, whose shoulder was dislocated, gives about the same version.

"Two big fellows would hold a man until they were thru beating him and then turn him loose.
I was turned loose and ran probably six or eight feet, something like that, and I was hit and
knocked down. As I scrambled to my feet and ran a few feet again I was hit on the shoulder
with a slingshot. This time I went down and I was dazed, I think I must have been unconscious
for a moment because when I came to they were kicking me, and some of them said, 'He is faking,'
and others said, 'No, he is knocked out.' I remember seeing some of the boys during that time
running by me, and when they got me up I started to run a bit farther and was knocked down again.

"Then they called for somebody there, addressing him as Dr. Allison, and he grabbed my arm
and pulled me up, and he raised my arm up and said, 'Aw, there is nothing the matter with you,'
and jerked it down again. My arm was out of place, it seemed way over to one side, and I couldn't
straighten it up.

"As I was going over the cattle guard several of them hit me and some one hollered 'Bring him
back here, don't let him go over there.' They brought me back and this doctor said 'You touch
your shoulder with your hand,' and I couldn't. He says 'There is nothing the matter with you.'

"Then the fellow who was on the dock, and who had been drinking pretty heavily, because they
would have to shove him back every once in a while, he shouted out 'Let's burn him!' About
that time Sheriff McRae came over and got hold of my throat and said, 'Now, damn you, I will
tell you I can kill you right here and there never would be nothing known about it, and you
know it.' And some one said, 'Let's hang him!' and this other fellow kept hollering 'Burn him!
Burn him!' McRae kept hitting me, first on one side and then the other, smacking me that way,
and then he turned me loose again and hit me with one of those slingshots, and finally he said
'Oh, let him go,' and he started me along, following behind and hitting me until I got over
the cattleguard.

"I went down to the interurban track until I caught up with some of the boys. They tried to
pull my shoulder back into place and then they took handkerchiefs and neckties, and one thing
and another, and made a kind of a sling to hold it up. We then went down to the first station
and the boys took up a collection and the eight of us who were hurt the worst got on the train
and went to Seattle. The others had to walk the twenty-five miles into Seattle. Most of us
had to go to the hospital next day."

Sam Rovinson was beaten with a piece of gaspipe, but taking advantage of the fact that the
shooting when Archie Collins made his escape had attracted the attention of the deputies he
got thru the gauntlet with only minor injuries. Rovinson testifies that McRae said to him:

"This time we will let you off with this, but next time you come up here we will pop you full
of holes."

"I just came up here to exercise my constitutional right of free speech," expostulated Rovinson.

"To hell with free speech and the Constitution!" shouted McRae, "You are now in Snohomish county,
and we are running the county!"

After the deputies had returned to town the two Ketchum brothers took their lanterns and went
out to the scene thinking they might find some of the men out there hurt, with a broken leg,
or arm or something, and that they could be taken to their house to be cared for. No men were
seen, but three covered with blood were found and after examination were returned to where
they had been picked up.

Early next morning some of the deputies, frightened at their cowardly actions of the previous
night, were seen at Beverly Park making an examination of the ground. Two of them approached
the Ketchum residence and asked if any I. W. W.'s had been found lying around there. After
being assured that they had stopped short of murder, the deputies departed.

A little later an investigation committee composed of Rev. Oscar McGill of Seattle, and Rev.
Elbert E. Flint, Rev. Jos. P. Marlatt, Jake Michel, Robert Mills, Ernest Marsh, E. C. Dailey,
Commissioner W. H. Clay, Messrs. Fawcett, Hedge, Ballou, Houghton and others from Everett,
made a close examination of the grounds. In spite of the heavy rain and notwithstanding the
fact that deputies had preceded them, the committee found blood-soaked hats and hat bands and
big brown spots of blood soaked into the cement roadway. In the cattle guard was the sole of
a shoe, evidently torn off as one of the fleeing men escaped his assailants.

"Hearing of the occurrence I accompanied several gentlemen, including a prominent minister
of the gospel of Everett, next morning to the scene. The tale of that struggle was plainly
written. The roadway was stained with blood. The blades of the cattle guard were so stained,
and between the blades was a fresh imprint of a shoe where plainly one man in his hurry to
escape the shower of blows, missed his footing in the dark and went down between the blades.
Early that morning workmen going into the city to work, picked up three hats from the ground,
still damp with blood. There can be no excuse for nor extenuation of such an inhuman method
of punishment," reported President E. P. Marsh to the State Federation of Labor.

J. M. Norland stated that "there were big brown blotches on the pavement which we took to be
blood. They were perhaps two feet in diameter, and there were a number of smaller blotches
for a distance of twenty-five feet. In the vicinity of the cattle guard the soil was disarranged
and there were shoe marks near the cattle guard. You could also notice where, in their hurry
to get across, they would go in between, and there would be little parts or shreds of clothing
there, and on one there was a little hair."

All that day the talk in Everett centered around the crime of the preceding night. Little groups
of citizens gathered here and there to discuss the matter. The deputies went about strenuously
denying that they had a hand in the infamous affair, and friends of long standing refused to
speak to those who were known positively to have been concerned in the outrage. A number of
the ministers of the city conferred regarding a course of action, but finding the problem too
deep for them to solve they left it to up to the individual. Various Everett citizens, representing
a large degree of public sentiment, felt that the thing to do was to hold an immense mass meeting
in order to present the facts of the hideous crime to the whole public. This plan met with
immediate approval from many quarters, and the I. W. W. in Seattle was notified of this desire
by mail, by telephone, and by means of citizens' delegations. Rev. Oscar McGill conferred with
secretary Herbert Mahler and was quite insistent upon the necessity for such a meeting, as
the Everett papers had carried no real information about the affair in Beverly. He brought
out the fact that there had been thousands in attendance at the mass meeting in the Everett
city park a month or so previous to this occurrence, and the speakers were then escorted by
a large body of citizens from the interurban depot to the meeting place, and the feelings of
the people were such that similar or even more adequate protection would be given were another
meeting held. He suggested that the meeting be held in broad daylight and on a Sunday. That
the plan met with the approval of the I. W. W. membership was shown by its adoption at a meeting
the night following the trouble at Beverly Park. And the date selected was Sunday, November 5th.

Immediately steps were taken to inform the various I. W. W. branches in the Northwest of the
proposed action. Telegrams were sent to Solidarity, and a ringing call for two thousand men
to help in the fight for free speech was published in the Industrial Worker. In addition to
telegraphing the story and its attendant call for action to the unions of the Pacific Coast
there were various members selected from among the forty-one who had been beaten, and these
were dispatched to different points to spread the tale of Everett's atrocities, and to gain
new recruits for the "invading army" of free speech fighters.

Seeking the widest possible publicity the free speech committee had printed and circulated
thousands of handbills in Everett to call attention to the proposed meeting.

                         CITIZENS OF EVERETT
                              ATTENTION!

     A meeting will be held at the corner of Hewitt and Wetmore Aves.,
     on Sunday, Nov. 5th, 2 p. m. Come and help maintain your and our
     constitutional right. +Committee.+

The authorities in Everett were notified, the editors of all the Seattle daily papers were
requested to have representatives present at the meeting, and reporters were called in and
told of the intentions of the organization. During the week frequent meetings were held in
the hall in Seattle to arrange for the incoming free speech fighters, and without an exception
all these meetings were held with no examination of membership books and were open to the public.
With their cards laid upon the table the members of the Industrial Workers of the World were
preparing to call the hand of the semi-legalized outlaws of Snohomish county who had cast aside
the law, abrogated the Constitution of the United States, and denied the right of free speech
and free assembly.

Following the Beverly affair the Commercial Club redoubled its activities. Blackjacks and "Robinson-clubs,"
so called because they were manufactured especially for the deputies by the Robinson Mill,
were set aside for revolvers and high power rifles, and the ranks of the deputies were enlarged
by the off-scouring and scum of the open shop persuasion.

McRae entered the I. W. W. hall on Friday, Nov. 3rd, the day Thomas H. Tracy turned the office
over to Chester Micklin, and abruptly said "By God, I will introduce myself. I am Sheriff McRae!
I won't have a lot of sons-of-bitches hanging around this place like in Seattle."

Micklin looked at the drunken sheriff a moment and replied, "The constitution guarantees us
free speech, free assembly, and free----"

"To hell with the Constitution," broke in McRae. "We have a constitution here that we will
enforce."

"You believe in unions, you believe in organized labor, don't you?" asked Micklin.

"Yes, I belonged to the shingle weavers at one time," returned McRae, "but when the shingle
weavers went out on strike I donated $25.00 to their strike fund and they gave me a rotten
deal and sent the check back to me, and to hell with the shingle weavers and the rest of the
unions!"

Then, as he was leaving the hall, McRae pulled from his pocket a letter; took from it a black
cat cut from pasteboard and stuck it in the secretary's face, saying "That's the kind of ----s
that is in your organization!"

Next morning the sheriff raided the hall and seized the men who were found there, with the
exception of the secretary. Turning to Micklin he said boastfully "I'll bet you a hundred dollars
you ----s won't hold that meeting tomorrow!" McRae was drunk.

The arrested men were searched and deported and, as was the case in every previous arrest and
deportation, there was no resistance offered, no physical violence threatened, and no weapons
of any character found upon any of the I. W. W. men.

That night the deputies were secretly assembled at the Commercial Club where they were given
their final instructions by the lumber trust and ordered to report fully armed and ready for
action at the blowing of the mill whistles. With these preparations the open shop forces were
ready to go to still greater lengths to uphold "law and order!"

The answer of the I. W. W. to this damnable act of violence at Beverly Park and to the four
months of terrorism that had preceded it was a call for two thousand men to enter Everett,
there to gain by sheer force of numbers that right of free speech and peaceable assembly supposed
to have been guaranteed them by the Constitution of the United States.[10]

FOOTNOTE:

[10] (The incidents in the foregoing chapter are corroborated by the sworn testimony of I.
W. W. men who were shot at, beaten, robbed, and abused; by citizens of Everett and Seattle
who were also beaten and mistreated or who witnessed the scenes; by physicians, attorneys,
public officials, members of craft unions, and by deputies who hoped to make amends by testifying
to the truth for the defense.)

CHAPTER IV.

BLOODY SUNDAY

How shall we enter the kingdom of Everett? was the question that confronted the committee in
charge of affairs in Seattle on the morning of November 5th. Inquiries at the Interurban office
developed the fact that sufficient cars could not be had to accommodate the crowd. The cost
of making the trip by auto truck was found to be prohibitive. At the eleventh hour the committee,
taking the money pooled by the members, secured the regular passenger steamship Verona, and
an orderly and determined body of men filed down the steps leading from the I. W. W. headquarters
and marched by fours to the Colman Dock.

Their mission was an open and peaceable one. Cheerful, optimistic, enthusiastic, the band of
social crusaders felt that the conquest of free speech was assured. Not for a moment did they
think that the Everett Klu-Klux-Klan would dare resort to violent and criminal tactics in the
broad daylight of that beautiful sunny day and in plain view of a host of conscientious Everett
citizens.

Assisted by Harry Feinberg and John T. (Red) Doran, Captain Chauncey Wiman checked the number
of men who went on board, stopping further entry when the legal limit of two hundred and fifty
persons was reached, Feinberg joining the men on board in order to serve as the main speaker
at the proposed meeting. Among those who secured passage were several who were not members
of the free speech party, but in the work of checking, the tickets of these persons were not
collected, their fares being paid in the lump sum that was handed to the captain. Regular passengers
of the Verona were informed that their tickets would be good for the steamer Calista, lying
at Pier 3. Thirty-eight additional members of the free speech band joined the regular patrons
who took passage on the Calista.

Laughter and jest were on the lips of the men who crowded the Verona, and songs of the One
Big Union rang out over the sparkling waters of Puget Sound. Loyal soldiers were these in the
great class war, enlightened workers who were willing to give their all in the battle for bread,
happiness and liberty. Men of all callings these--logger, carpenter, laborer, railroad clerk,
painter, miner, printer, seaman and farmhand, all united with one common aim--the desire to
gain for Labor the right of free expression.

Among their number, however, were two individuals of a breed reckoned among the lowest order
of the human species; two "stool pigeons," low informers upon whom even a regular detective
looks down with contempt. One of these, carrying an I. W. W. card and in the employ of Snohomish
county and the Everett Commercial Club under the direction of the Pinkerton Detective Agency,
had sneaked out of the I. W. W. headquarters long enough to telephone Lieutenant Hedges of
the Seattle Police force that there was a boatload of I. W. W. men leaving for Everett. There
was no secret in connection with the trip, but that there exist such class traitors, relatively
few as they are, to whom the enemies of the workers can look for information is one of the
sad features of the class struggle. The "stool's" message was relayed to the Everett authorities
and, after being revised by the advocates of the open shop, it finally reached the deputies
in the form of a report that a boatload of I. W. W.'s, armed to the teeth, were about to invade,
pillage, and burn the city.

At one o'clock the mill whistles blew, the mill deputies armed with their mill clubs, mill
revolvers, rifles and shotguns, assembled at the mill headquarters--the Commercial Club--and
from there were transported in mill automobiles down the alleys and back streets to the City Dock.

Citizens were driven from the dock and a rope, guarded by armed deputies, was stretched across
the land end to prevent access by any save men with guns. Part of the equipment of the Naval
Militia was stored in readiness at the Commercial Club--a stubborn fact for those who deny
that government is a class institution. At the Pacific Hardware Company, deputy Dave Oswald
had an auto load of rifles and ammunition prepared for immediate transportation and use. In
Captain Ramwell's office, at the point where the rope was stretched, there were stacked a number
of high-power rifles, brought there from the same source. It is even rumored that there was
a machine gun on the dock. On the scab tugboat Edison, moored at the north side of the dock,
men armed with rifles lay in waiting. The Everett Improvement Dock to the south was also prepared
for action. Hundreds of deputies were admitted to the City Dock and were lined up under the
direction of Sheriff McRae, Deputy-Sheriff Jefferson Beard, and Lieutenant Charles O. Curtis,
of the Officers' Reserve Corps of the National Guard of Washington. Boards were removed from
the sides of the warehouses so as to command a view of the landing place, and sacks of potatoes
and lumber were used as partial barricades. A few of the deputies were in the west warehouse
at the extreme end of the dock, but the majority of them were in the larger warehouse to the
east of the open docking space. Plentifully supplied with ammunition and "booze," the cowardly
deputies lay hidden in this ambush. The scene was set and the tragedy of November Fifth about
to be staged.

As the Verona cleaved the placid, sunlit waters of the Bay and swung up to the City Dock at
Everett, shortly before two o'clock, the men were merrily singing the English Transport Workers'
strike song,

           "HOLD THE FORT!"

     We meet today in Freedom's cause,
       And raise our voices high;
     We'll join our hands in union strong,
       To battle or to die.

           CHORUS

       Hold the fort for we are coming,
       Union men be strong.
       Side by side we battle onward,
       Victory will come!

     Look, my comrades, see the union,
       Banners waving high.
     Reinforcements now appearing,
       Victory is nigh.

     See our numbers still increasing;
       Hear the bugle blow:
     By our union we shall triumph
       Over every foe.

     Fierce and long the battle rages,
       But we will not fear.
     Help will come whene'er it's needed,
       Cheer, my comrades, cheer!

From a hillside overlooking the scene thousands upon thousands of Everett citizens sent forth
cheer after cheer as a hearty welcome to the "invading army." High up on the flag-pole of the
Verona clambered Hugo Gerlot, a youthful free speech enthusiast, to wave a greeting to the
throng that lined the shore. Passenger Oscar Carlson and his friend Ernest Nordstrom, from
their position on the very bow of the boat, caught the spirit of the party and endeavored to
join in the song that resounded louder and clearer as many of the men left the cabins to go
out upon the deck.

Completely filling the bow of the boat and blocking the passageway on either side, the singers
crowded to the rail in the usual joyously impatient manner of holiday excursionists, and then
for the first time observed a body of deputies march from the large warehouse and settle into
lines across the back and sides of the open landing space on the dock, where Curtis, McRae,
and Beard were stationed.

Waiting until Captain Ramwell's wharfinger, William Kenneth, had made fast the bowline to prevent
the boat from backing out, Sheriff Donald McRae gave his belt holster a hitch to bring his
gun directly across his middle and then lurched forward to the face of the dock. Holding up
his left hand to check the singing, he yelled to the men on board:

"Who is your leader?"

Immediate and unmistakable was the answer from practically every member of the Industrial Workers
of the World:

"We are all leaders!"

Angrily jerking his gun from its holster and flourishing it in a threatening manner, McRae cried:

"You can't land here!"

"The hell we can't!" came the reply as the men stepped toward the partly thrown-off gang plank.

A shot rang out from the immediate vicinity of deputy W. A. Bridges, then another, closely
followed by a volley that sent them staggering backward. Many fell to the deck. Evidently the
waving of McRae's revolver was the prearranged signal for the carnage to commence. The long
months of lumber trust lawlessness had culminated in cowardly, deliberate, premeditated and
foul murder!

Young Gerlot crumpled up and slid part way down the flag pole, then suddenly threw out both
arms and crashed lifeless to the deck, his bullet-torn and bleeding body acting as a shield
for several who had thrown themselves prostrate. Passenger Oscar Carlson threw himself flat
upon the forward deck and while in that position seven bullets found their way into his quivering
flesh, life clinging to the shattered form by a strange vagary of fate. With a severe bullet
wound in his abdomen, Ed Roth swayed back and forth for a moment and then toppled forward on
his face.

When a bullet whistled past the head of Captain Chauncey Wiman, and another tore a spoke as
thick as a man's wrist from the pilot wheel beneath his hand, he deserted his post to barricade
himself behind the safe with a mattress, remaining in that position until the close of the
hostilities.

At the first shot and during the first volley the unarmed men wildly sought cover from the
deadly leaden hail. Those who had not dropped to the deck, wounded or seeking shelter, surged
to the starboard side of the boat, causing it to list to an alarming degree, the fastened bowline
alone preventing it from capsizing. Several men lost their footing on the blood-slimed decks
and were pitched headlong overboard. There, struggling frantically in the water,--by no possible
chance combatants--a storm of rifle bullets churning little whirlpools around their heads,
one by one they were made the victims of lumber trust greed by the Hessianized deputies stationed
at the shore end of the City Dock and upon the dock to the south. The bay was reddened with
their blood. Of all who went overboard, James Hadley alone regained the deck, the rest disappearing
beneath the silent waters to be dragged by the undertow out to an unknown and nameless ocean grave.

Young Joe Ghilezano seized the rail preparatory to jumping overboard, but seeing two men shot
dead while they were in the water he lay down on the deck instead. While there a bullet pierced
his hip, another went thru his back close to the spine, and a third completely tore off his
left knee cap. Harry Parker slipped over the starboard side in order to gain the lower deck,
and a rifle bullet from the vicinity of the tug Goldfinch, along the Everett Improvement Company
Dock, ranged thru his back from left to right, just as his friend, Walter Mulholland, also
wounded, pulled him in thru a hole torn in the canvas wind shield. An abdominal wound laid
Felix Baran low. The thud of bullets as they struck the prostrate men added to the ghastly
sound caused by the firing of rifles and revolvers, the curses of the deputies and the moans
of the wounded men.

Following the first volley the deputies who had been out in the open scuttled into the warehouses
on either side. Thru their scattering ranks the scabs on the tug Edison poured their rifle
fire toward the men on the Verona. Lieutenant C. O. Curtis pitched forward and fell dead upon
the dock--the victim of a rifle bullet. One of the fleeing deputies paused behind the corner
of the waiting room just long enough to flinchingly reach out his hand and, keeping his head
under cover, emptied his revolver without taking aim. Deputy Sheriff Jefferson Beard fell mortally
wounded as he turned to run, and was dragged into the warehouse by some of the less panic stricken
murderers. Sheriff McRae, with a couple of slight wounds in his left leg and heel, was forced
to his knees by the impact of bullets against the steel jacket which he wore, remaining in
a supplicating attitude for a few seconds while he sobbed out in a quavering tone, "O-o-oh!
I'm hit! I-I'm hit!! I-I-I'm hit!!!"

Placed on board the Verona to serve the interests of the lumber trust, what were the two Pinkerton
operatives doing while the boat was landing and just before the first heavy firing commenced?
Their actions were shrouded in mystery. But, as if anticipating something, one was seen directly
after the first shot scurrying into hiding where he lay shivering until long after the firing
had ceased. The other, while under cover, was struck on the head by a glancing bullet. He became
so enraged at this lack of thoughtfulness on the part of his degenerate brothers that he emptied
his revolver at their backs as they broke for cover. From a safe position on the dock, deputy
H. D. Cooley, with a pair of field glasses, was tremblingly trying to spy for the approach
of the Calista.

Inside the waiting room and the warehouses the drink-crazed deputies ran amuck, shooting wildly
in all directions, often with some of their own number directly in the line of fire--bullet
holes in the floor and a pierced clock case high up on the waiting room wall giving mute evidence
of their insane recklessness. One deputy fled from the dock in terror, explaining to all who
would listen that a bullet hole in his ear was from the shot of one of his associates on the dock.

"They've gone crazy in there!" he cried excitedly. "They're shootin' every which way! They
shot me in the ear!"

Thru the loopholes already provided, and even thru the sides of the warehouses they blazed
away in the general direction of the boat, using revolvers and high powered rifles with steel
and copper-jacketed missiles. Dum-dums sang their deadly way to the Verona and tore gaping
wounds in the breasts of mere boys--an added reward by the industrial lords for their first
season of hard labor in the scorching harvest fields. John Looney was felled by a rifle bullet
and even as he fell shuddering to the deck another leaden missile shattered the woodwork and
impaled one of his eyeballs upon a spear of wood, gouging it from the socket.

At the foot of the dock, protected by the Klatawa slip, (Indian name for runaway) C. R. Schweitzer,
owner of a scab plumbing establishment, fired time after time with a magazine shotgun, the
buckshot scattering at the long range and raking the forward deck with deadly effect. The pilot
house was riddled and the woodwork filled with hundreds of the little leaden messengers that
carried a story of "mutual interests of Capital and Labor." Deputy Russell and about ten others
assisted in the dastardly work at that point, pouring shot after shot into the convulsive struggling
heaps of wounded men piled four and five deep on the deck. One boy in a brown mackinaw suddenly
rose upright from a tangled mass of humanity, the blood gushing from his wounds, and with an
agonized cry of "My God! I can't stand this any longer!" leaped high in the air over the side
of the boat, sinking from sight forever, his watery resting place marked only by a few scarlet
ripples.

Two bodies, one with the entire throat shot away, were found next morning washed up on the
beach, and that fact was reported to the Everett police by Ed. and Rob. Thompson. That night
some men fishing in a little sailboat far out in the bay saw five weighted objects about six
feet long, and apparently wrapped in canvas, thrown overboard from a launch, but in none of
the daily papers was there any mention of bodies having been found. Six uncalled-for membership
cards, deposited by men who took passage on the Verona, may represent as many murders by the
cowards on the dock. Those cards are made out to Fred Berger, William Colman, Tom Ellis, Edward
Raymond, Peter Viberts, and Chas. E. Taylor. Some of the deputies gloatingly declared that
the death toll of the workers was twelve men at the lowest count.

So wanton was the slaughter of the helpless men and boys that strong men who witnessed the
scene turned away vomiting. From the hillside the women--those whom the deputies were pretending
to protect from the "incoming horde,"--casting aside all womanly fears, raced to the dock in
a vain endeavor to stop the commission of further crime, crying out in their frenzy, "The curs!
The curs! The dirty curs! They're nothing but murderers!" They, as well as the men who tried
to launch boats to rescue the men in the water, were halted by the same citizen deputies whose
names head the list of Red Cross donors.

For a short period of time, seemingly endless hours to the unarmed and helpless men on the
boat, the rain of lead continued. Tho the boat had righted itself, the men were still unable
to extricate themselves from the positions into which they had been thrown. Near the top of
one heap lay Abraham Rabinowitz, a young Jewish college graduate, and as he struggled to regain
his footing a bullet tore off the whole back part of his head, his blood and brains splashing
down over Raymond Lee and Michael Reilly who lay just beneath him. Rabinowitz died in the arms
of Leonard Broman, his "pal" in the harvest fields, without ever having regained consciousness.

"Hold me up, fellow workers!" suddenly called out Gus Johnson as he was fatally stricken by
a bullet. "I want to finish the song." Then, above the din of the gunfire and curses of the
deputies, the final verse of "Hold the Fort" rang out in defiance of industrial tyranny, and
with the termination of the words "Cheer, my comrades, cheer!" the bright red death-foam flecked
the ever-to-be silent lips of the brave Swedish revolutionist.

Splintering the stairways, seats and woodwork, and wounding many of the men crouched in hiding,
thousands of rounds of ammunition found their way into the boat during the ten long minutes
of the onslaught. Finally, with a 41 Colts revolver to enforce his demand, J. F. Billings ordered
engineer Ernest Shellgren to back the boat away from the dock. With no pilot at the wheel the
propeller churned madly backward for a moment, the bowline drew taut and snapped, and the Verona
pulled away from the murderous crew of vigilantes. Not content with the havoc they had wrought
at close quarters some of the deputies continued to fire as long as the boat was within range,
a bullet from a high powered rifle shattering the left leg of Harry Golden, a youth of twenty-two
years, when the boat was far out in the bay. Amputation of the limb was necessary, a cork leg
daily reminding young Golden of the majesty of the law.

The Verona with its grim cargo of dead and wounded steamed toward Seattle, meeting the steamer
Calista about four miles out, stopping just long enough for Captain Wiman to shout thru his
megaphone, "For God's sake don't land! They'll kill you! We have dead and wounded on board now."

With unaccustomed fingers the uninjured men bathed the wounded, tearing up shirts and underclothing
in order to bind up their injuries, and making the men as comfortable as possible during the
two and one half hour return trip.

A few of the men on board had been armed. These voluntarily threw overboard their revolvers,
together with the few empty shells that lay scattered upon the deck, George Reese alone having
to be forced to discard the "souvenirs" he had picked up.

It was a quiet crowd that pulled into Seattle, not only because they realized that the class
struggle is not all jokes and songs, but also in deference to the sufferings of their wounded
comrades. This same spirit animated the men when they were met by drawn cordons of police at
the Seattle dock, their first thought and first words being, "Get the wounded fellows out and
we will be all right." In the city jail, located on the floor above the hospital, the same
generous consideration of their wounded fellow workers' condition led them to forego the demonstration
usually attending the arrest and jailing of any body of I. W. W. members.

The four dead members, their still forms covered with blankets, were first removed from the
boat and taken to the morgue. Police and hospital ambulances were soon filled with the thirty-one
wounded men, who were taken to the city hospital. The uninjured men were then lined up and
slowly marched to the city jail. From the Calista the thirty-eight I. W. W. members were taken
and placed in the county jail.

At the hospital, Felix Baran, shot in the abdomen, slowly and painfully passed away from internal
hemorrhage. Dr. Mary Equi, of Portland, Ore., who examined the body, stated that with surgical
attention there would have been more than an even chance of recovery.

French, German, Swedish, Irish, and Russian Jew,--these are the true internationalists of the
world-wide brotherhood of toil who died for free speech and the right to organize in this "land
of liberty." To them Courtenay Lemon's tribute to the I. W. W. applies with full force.

"Again and again its foot-free members, burning with an indignation and a militant social idealism
which is ever an inscrutable puzzle to local authorities, have hastened to towns where free
speech fights were on, defied the police, braved clubbings, and voluntarily filled the jails
to overflowing, to the rage and consternation of the police and taxpayers. It has acted as
the flying squadron of liberty, the unconquered knight-errantry of all captive freedoms; and
the migratory workers who constitute a large part of its membership, ever on the march and
pitching their camp wherever the industrial battle is thickest, form a guerilla army which
is always eager for a fight with the powers of tyranny. Whether they disagree with its methods
and aims, all lovers of liberty everywhere owe a debt to this organization for its defense
of free speech. Absolutely irreconcilable, absolutely fearless, and unsuppressibly persistent,
it has kept alight the fires of freedom, like some outcast vestal of human liberty. That the
defense of traditional rights to which this government is supposed to be dedicated should devolve
upon an organization so often denounced as 'unpatriotic' and 'un-American,' is but the usual,
the unfailing irony of history."[11]

Baran, Gerlot, Johnson, Looney, Rabinowitz,--these names will be a source of inspiration to
the workers when their cowardly murderers have long been forgotten.

Those who survived their wounds, saving as pocket pieces the buckshot, copper and steel jacketed
and dum-dum bullets extracted from their persons, were; mentioning their more serious wounds:

Harry Golden, age 22, shot in left leg, making amputation necessary.

Joseph Ghilazano, age 20, shot in shoulder and both legs, entire knee-cap shot off and replaced
with a silver substitute.

Albert Scribner, age 32, severely wounded in hip, probably lamed for life.

Mario Marino, age 18, shot thru the lungs.

Edward Roth, age 30, severely wounded in abdomen.

Walter Mulholland, age 18, shot in buttock.

Carl Bjork, age 25, wounded in back.

Harry Parker, age 22, shot above abdomen, in back, and in legs.

John Ryan, age 21, wounded in right shoulder and left leg.

Leland E. Butcher, age 28, shot in the left leg.

J. A. Kelly, age 31, shot in right leg.

Hans Peterson, age 32, wounded in head.

Fred Savery, age 25, wounded in hip.

Steve Sabo, age 21, shot in left shoulder.

Robert Adams, age 32, shot in left arm.

Owen Genty, age 26, wounded in right kidney.

C. C. England, age 27, shot in left knee.

Nick Canaeff, age 35, shot in left arm.

Albert Doninger, age 20, wounded in left arm.

Brockman B. Armstrong, age 35, wounds on head.

E. J. Shapeero, age 24, wounded in right leg.

Carl Burke, age 25, shot in back and shoulder.

Ira Luft, age 27, shot in right side of back.

George Turnquist, age 26, wounded in left leg.

George Brown, age 21, shot in back.

D. J. McCarthy, age 37, shot in side of head and in right leg.

John Adams, age 28, wounded in right elbow.

Edward Truitt, age 28, shot in right elbow.

Others on the boat who were wounded were Oscar Carlson, passenger, nine severe bullet wounds
in all parts of his body; L. S. Davis, ship steward, wounded in the arm, and Charles Smith,
Pinkerton "stool pigeon" with a slight scalp injury.

The wounded men were none too well treated at the city hospital, only a part of the neglect
being due to the overcrowded condition of the wards. Wounds were hastily dressed and in some
cases the injured men were placed in jail at once where they had to care for themselves as
best they might.

In Everett the deputies left the dock when the Verona had steamed out of the range of their
rifle fire, taking with them the corpse of gunman C. O. Curtis, office manager of the Canyon
Lumber Company, and deputy-sheriff Jefferson Beard, whose wounds caused his death the following
morning. The injured deputies were H. B. Blackburn, James A. Broadbent, R. E. Brown, E. P.
Buehrer, Owen Clay, Louis Connor, Jr., Fred Durr, A. J. Ettenborough, Athol Gorrell, Thomas
Hedley, Joe Irving, James Meagher; Donald McRae, J. C. Rymer, Edwin Stuchell, and Charles Tucker.
Hooted, hissed, and jeered at by the thousands of citizens on the viaduct and hill above the
dock, these self-immolated prostitutes to the god of greater profits were taken to the hospitals
for treatment.

Among the crowd of citizens was Mrs. Edith Frennette, who had been in Everett a couple of days
in connection with a lumber trust charge against her, and with her were Mrs. Lorna Mahler and
Mrs. Joyce Peters, who had come from Seattle to attend the proposed street meeting. Making
the claim that Mrs. Frenette had threatened the life of Sheriff McRae with a gun and had tried
to throw red pepper into his eyes as he was being transported from the dock, the Everett authorities
caused the arrest of the three women in Seattle as they were returning in an auto to meet the
Verona at the Seattle dock. They were held several days before being released, no charges having
been placed against Mrs. Mahler or Mrs. Peters, and the case against Mrs. Frenette was eventually
dismissed, just as had been all previous charges made by McRae. These three arrests brought
the total number of free speech prisoners up to two hundred and ninety-four.

What were the feelings of the Everett public directly following the massacre can best be judged
from the report of an Everett correspondent to the Seattle Union Record, the official A. F.
of L. organ.

"Your correspondent was on the street at the time of the battle and at the dock ten minutes
afterward. He mingled with the street crowds for hours afterwards. The temper of the people
is dangerous. Nothing but curses and execrations for the Commercial Club was heard. Men and
women who are ordinarily law abiding, who in normal times mind their own business pretty well,
pay their taxes, send their children to church and school, pay their bills, in every way comport
themselves as normal citizens, were heard using the most vitriolic language concerning the
Commercial Club, loudly sympathizing with the I. W. W.'s. And therein lies the great harm that
was done, more menacing to the city than the presence of any number of I. W. W.'s, viz., the
transformation of decent, honest citizens into beings mad for vengeance and praying for something
dire to happen. I heard gray-haired women, mothers and wives, gentle, kindly, I know, in their
home circles, openly hoping that the I. W. W.'s would come back and 'clean up.'"

Corroborating this is the report of President E. P. Marsh to the State Federation of Labor.

"A dangerous situation existed in Everett after the battle of November 5. Public feeling ran
high and anything might have happened. Half a thousand citizens were under arms enraged at
the Industrial Workers of the World and deadly determined to stamp out their organization in
Everett. It is no exaggeration to say that literally thousands of the working people of Everett
were just as enraged toward the members of the Commercial Club who participated in the gun
battle. * * * As an instance of how high the feeling ran let me tell you that on the following
morning the mayor of the city appeared on the (shingle weavers') picket line with a high power
rifle and told the union pickets that he had every reason to believe that an attempt might
be made by snipers to pick them off. He asked them to scatter as much as possible, make no
demonstration whatever, and declared he would defend them with his life if necessary."

Mayor Merrill, equally guilty with the deputies who were on the dock, taking advantage of a
means of spreading information that was denied to the workers, directly after the massacre
spoke from a soap box on the corner of Wetmore and California Avenues, telling all who would
listen that he was not responsible for the trouble as the Commercial Club had taken the power
away from him and put it in the hands of McRae. The insincerity of this vacillating lackey
of the lumber trust was demonstrated by his brutal treatment of young Louis Skaroff, who with
Chester Micklin and Osmond Jacobs, had been arrested and thrown into jail when the three, bravely
taking their lives in their hands, attempted to speak on the corner of Hewitt and Wetmore two
hours after the tragedy. It was on Monday night about ten o'clock that the night jailer took
Skaroff into a room where Mayor Merrill and a man posing as an immigration officer were seated.
The fake immigration officer tried to frighten the prisoner with threats of deportation, after
which the jailer beat Skaroff across the head. Merrill arose and took a hand in the proceedings,
buffeting the boy back and forth until he fell to the floor. Then, with the aid of the jailer,
Skaroff's fingers were placed, one by one, beneath the legs of an iron bed in the room while
the ponderous mayor jumped up and down on the bed, mashing and tearing flesh and knuckles.
Upon regaining consciousness the mutilated boy found himself in the jail corridor, crushed
beneath Merrill's massive form, the mayor having grasped Skaroff by the hair in order to repeatedly
hammer the lad's head against the hard cement floor. Finding that Skaroff's spirit could not
be broken the cowards finally desisted. Skaroff was released at the end of eleven days.

Chaos reigned in Everett following the tragedy. That night over five hundred deputies patrolled
the streets, fearing just retribution for their criminal misdeeds. Those who had been on the
dock as parties to the massacre were overheard saying to each other, "We must stick together
on this story about the first shot coming from the boat." Certain officials called for the
state militia which was mobilized in Seattle but not used. One militiaman, a young lad named
Ted Kennedy, refused to serve, claiming that it was the same as strike duty. The fact that
the militia was mobilized at once, and that Governor Ernest Lister went to Everett to confer
with officials and mill owners there, when he had refused to furnish protection or even to
make an investigation at the request of the I. W. W. a short time before showed the governor's
bias in favor of the employers. In this lumber district the militia was apparently the property
of the mill owners.

A hastily gathered coroner's jury in Everett on November 6th brought in a verdict that C. O.
Curtis and Jefferson F. Beard met death from "gunshot wounds inflicted by a riotous mob on
the Steamer Verona at the city dock." If any of the jury dissented from its false statement
they were too spineless to express their opinion. The deliberations were under the direction
of Coroner A. R. Maulsby and the members of the jury were Adam Hill, C. E. Anthony, O. H. King,
Chris Culmback, C. Sandstein, and Charles F. Manning.

The inquest was a farce. Those who were outside the "deadline" and who were willing to swear
that the first shots came from the dock were not permitted to testify, only sympathizers with
the Commercial Club being called as witnesses. No real attempt to take testimony was made.
The Seattle Central Labor Council on November 8th appropriated $100 for a more complete investigation
after branding the Everett inquest as fraudulent in the following resolution:

     "Whereas, It appears to this council that, following a lockout and
     open-shop campaign by Roland H. Hartley and others of Everett,
     Wash., the police and business men of that city have attempted to
     ruthlessly and lawlessly suppress all street speaking and
     demonstrations by labor organizations, and that unarmed men have
     been brutally beaten and terrorized, and

     Whereas, This policy culminated in a bloody battle on Sunday,
     November 5, resulting in the death of seven or more men and the
     wounding of many more, and

     Whereas, A fair inquest should be held to fix responsibility for
     this crime, and it appears that this has not been done, but that
     only witnesses favorable to the bosses have been heard;

     Therefore, we demand another inquest, free from control by the
     forces opposed to labor, and a change of venue, if that be
     necessary."

Capitalism stood forth in all its hideous nakedness on that day of red madness, and public
opinion was such that the striking shingle weavers had but to persistently press their point
in order to win. A conference of prominent men, held in Everett on Monday, decided that the
situation could be relieved only by a settlement of the strike. The mill men, when called in,
abruptly refused to grant a single demand so long as the men were still out, an attitude they
could not have maintained for long. Listening to the false advice of "friends of labor" and
"labor leaders" the shingle weavers, albeit grudgingly, returned to their slavery, unconditional
surrender being the price they were forced to pay for the doubtful privilege of "relieving
the social tension." But with the pay envelopes that could not be stretched to cover the increased
cost of living, the weavers, discouraged to an extent and lacking their former solidarity,
were forced to down tools again within a few weeks by the greatest of all strike agitators--Hunger.

The prisoners in Seattle were held incommunicado for several days. They were fed upon the poorest
grade of prison fare, and were made to sleep on the winter-chilled cement floors without blankets.
But Mayor Hiram Gill, realizing that public sentiment was with the imprisoned men, ordered
that they be placed upon a proper diet, be given blankets and be allowed to see relatives and
friends. On November 8th in the Seattle Times there appeared a statement by Gill that played
a very important part in riveting the attention of the people upon the real criminals in the
case. As the Times is a notoriously conservative and labor-hating sheet, being largely responsible
for the raid on the I. W. W. and Socialist Halls on July 19, 1913, and for the attack by drunken
sailors and soldiers on the I. W. W. hall on June 16, 1917, it can hardly be accused of exaggeration
in favor of the workers in this interview.

Following the publication of this interview the Seattle Chamber of Commerce, Seattle's "Commercial
Club," endeavored to father a movement looking to the recall of Gill from office. Back of this
attempt were Judge Thomas Burke, Louis Lang, Jay Thomas, and four stall-fed ministers, the
Reverends W. A. Major, E. V. Shailer, Wood Stewart and Carter Helm Jones. Of these, Thomas
represented the liquor interests, Lang was the former police chief who had been discharged
in disgrace and was herding scabs on the waterfront, Burke was chief spokesman for the low-wage
open-shop interests, and as to the preachers--the less said the better. The lumber and shipping
trusts had adequate representation at the "Law and Order" meeting as the attempted recall gathering
was styled. But the whole thing fell flat when Gill himself offered to sign the recall for
the opportunity it would give him to tell the real facts about the Everett case and the interests
lined up behind the prosecution and the recall.

On the night of the tragedy a report was circulated in Seattle to the effect that every known
I. W. W. would be arrested on sight. The answer to this was a street meeting at which nearly
ninety dollars were collected as the first money toward the Everett Prisoners' Defense, and
the packing of the hall for weeks thereafter by members and sympathizers who had not attended
meetings for a long time. A temporary committee was chosen to handle the work of the defense
of the imprisoned men, and this committee acted until November 16th, at which time at a mass
meeting of I. W. W. members Herbert Mahler was elected secretary of the Everett Prisoners'
Defense Committee, Charles Ashleigh, publicity agent, and W. J. Houser, Morris Levine and Thomas
Murphy as the committee. Richard Smith was afterward chosen to take the place vacated by Levine.
This committee functioned thruout the case and up until the final audit of their account on
June 12, 1917.

Within the jail a process of selection had gone on. One by one the free speech prisoners were
taken from their cells and slowly led past a silent and darkened cell into whose gloomy depths
the keenest eye was unable to penetrate. Again and again they were marched past the peephole,
first with hats on and then with them off, while two sinister looking fingers were slid out
of a narrow opening from time to time to indicate those who should be held.

"I'd give two of my fingers," muttered one of the prisoners bitterly, "to know the skunk that
belongs to those two fingers."

Little did he and his fellow workers realize that they were to learn later, thru the development
of the trial, that the principal person engaged in the despicable work was George Reese, a
member of the I. W. W. and of the I. L. A. It was on learning this that many of the actions
of Reese were made clear; his connection with dock riots during the longshoremen's strike,
his establishment of a "flying squadron" to beat up scabs on the waterfront, his open boast
on the floor of I. L. A. meetings that his pockets were lined with money gained by robbing
the strike-breakers after they had been beaten up and his advice to other strikers to do likewise,
his activities just prior to the various dock fires, his seemingly miraculous escape in every
instance when strikers were arrested, his election as delegate from the longshoremen to the
Seattle Central Labor Council, his requests of prominent I. W. W. members that they purchase
various chemicals for him, his giving of phosphorus to members of the I. L. A. and the I. W.
W. with instructions as to how and where to use it, his attempts to advocate violence at an
Everett street meeting, his gathering of "souvenirs" on the Verona--all actions designed either
to aid the employers in their fights against the workers or to furnish an excuse for his further
employment as an "informer."

Well may the question be asked--What was Reese doing just as the Verona docked in Everett on
November 5th? Was Reese merely a "stool pigeon" or was he an "agent provocateur?"

Aiding Reese in the selective process was Charles Smith, the other Pinkerton operative who
had been on the boat. One of the men first picked out was I. P. McDowell, alias Charles Adams,
and this individual was weak enough to fall for the promise of immunity offered by agents of
the lumber trust if he would point out the "leaders" and then take the stand to swear that
the men on the boat were armed and the first shot came from one of them. McDowell pointed out
some of the men, but lacking the nerve to carry out the last part of the program he was held
with the rest for trial. The seventy-four men thus picked were formally charged with murder
in the first degree. The first charge carried the names of C. O. Curtis as well as that of
Jefferson Beard, but later the name of Curtis was dropped from the information. The men so
charged were:

Charles Auspos, alias Austin, age 38, teamster, born in Wisconsin.

James D. Bates, age 29, steam fitter, born in Illinois.

E. M. Beck, age 45, laborer, born in New York.

Charles Berg, age 22, laborer, born in Germany.

J. H. Beyer, age 56, painter, born in Michigan.

J. F. Billings, age 35, cook, born in Nebraska.

Charles Black, age 23, laborer, born in Pennsylvania.

J. J. Black, age 27, longshoreman, born in Massachusetts.

John W. Bowdoin, age 35, laborer, born in Sweden.

Frank Boyd, age 43, laborer, born in Illinois.

Pete Breed, age 26, laborer, born in Holland.

W. H. Brown, age 40, laborer, born in Maryland.

H. T. Cheetman, age 25, carpenter, born in Florida.

Fred Crysler, age 26, laborer, born in Canada.

Charles H. Cody, age 46, painter, born in Montana.

William Coffin, age 34, motorman, born in California.

Clarence Cyphert, age 35, logger, born in Washington.

Roy Davis, age 47, laborer, born in California.

William Davis, age 35, cook, born in Maryland.

Axel Downey, age 17, laborer, born in Iowa.

John Downs, age 28, sailor, born in Colorado.

Adolph Ersson, age 26, laborer and sailor, born in Sweden.

Harry Feinberg, age 25, cleaner and dyer, born in Illinois.

Charles Hawkins, age 28, laborer, born in Indiana.

Charles Haywood, age 46, miner, born in Minnesota.

E. F. Hollingsworth, age 29, fireman, born in North Carolina.

J. E. Houlihan, age 36, miner, born in Ireland.

Alfred Howard, age 28, coal packer, born in New York.

Harvey Hubler, age 21, teamster, born in Illinois.

Oscar Johnson, age 24, laborer, born in Sweden.

Victor Johnson, age 37, laborer, born in Finland.

J. A. Kelly, age 31, logger, born in Ohio.

Theodore Lauer, age 29, laborer, born in New York.

William Lawson, age 32, laborer, born in Washington.

Jack Leonard, age 27, laborer, born in Kentucky.

Pat Lyons, age 48, laborer, born in England.

Jim Mack, age 31, laborer, born in Ireland.

Joseph Manning, age 28, automobile repairer, born in Pennsylvania.

Laurence Manning, age 26, laborer, born in New York.

Ed Miller, age 48, painter, born in New York.

Harold Miller, age 21, gas fitter, born in Kansas.

John Mitchell, age 38, miner, born in Illinois.

George Murphy, age 28, laborer, born in Kentucky.

Louis McCall, age 24, laborer, born in Texas.

I. P. McDowell, alias Charles Adams, age 28, printer, born in Illinois.

C. D. McLennan, age 48, longshoreman, born in Georgia.

Carl Newman, age 30, laborer, born in Sweden.

John Nugent, age 38, laborer, born in New York.

Malachi O'Neill, age 34, blacksmith, born in Ireland.

Earl Osborne, age 33, logger, born in North Carolina.

Jack Paterson, age 24, laborer, born in Illinois.

Harston Peters, age 32, laborer, born in Virginia.

James Powers, age 47, sheet metal worker, born in Massachusetts.

John Rawlings, age 26, laborer, born in Wisconsin.

Michael J. Reilly, age 23, laborer, born in New York.

John Ross, age 36, laborer, born in Massachusetts.

Ed. Roth, age 31, longshoreman, born in New York.

Thomas Savage, age 50, machinist, born in New York.

E. J. Shapeero, age 23, timekeeper, born in Pennsylvania.

William Shay, age 28, laborer, born in Massachusetts.

H. Shebeck, age 24, laborer, born in Wisconsin.

Albert Shreve, age 40, laborer, born in Illinois.

H. Sokol, age 26, laborer, born in Russia.

D. Stevens, age, 21, longshoreman, born in Canada

Robert Struick, age 24, farmer, born in Michigan.

Frank Stewart, age 35, logger, born in Canada.

Tom Tracy, age 30, crane driver, born in Pennsylvania.

Thomas H. Tracy, age 36, teamster, born in Nebraska.

Edwart Truitt, age 28, longshoreman, born in Pennsylvania.

F. O. Watson, age 35, blacksmith, born in Louisiana.

James Whiteford (Kelly), age 36, cook, born in New York.

Abraham B. Wimborne, age 22, buss-boy, born in England.

William Winn, age 44, miner, born in Maryland.

All of these men, with the exception of J. H. Beyer, were heavily handcuffed and secretly transferred
to Everett, forty-one being taken in the first contingent and the balance later.

Meanwhile the I. W. W. branches in Seattle had communicated with the General Headquarters of
the organization and steps had been taken to secure legal aid. Attempts to enlist the services
of Frank P. Walsh, former chairman of the Industrial Relations Commission, were unsuccessful.
For various reasons other well known attorneys refused to ally themselves with the defense.

Attorney Fred H. Moore of Los Angeles, responding to the call from Seattle, reached Seattle
just one week after the tragedy, on Sunday, November, 12th. Moore acted as chief counsel for
the defense. He had first come into prominence thru his connection with the great free speech
fight waged in Spokane, Wash., during the fall of 1909 and the spring of 1910. During that
fight he handled the legal end of the cases of many hundreds of free speech fighters whose
arrests ran into the thousands. He was also connected with various other cases in connection
with the Industrial Workers of the World, notably that of Jack Whyte and others arrested in
the contest for free speech in San Diego, Cal. and the famous Ettor-Giovannitti case that developed
from the great strike of textile workers in Lawrence, Mass., in 1912. His sympathy with the
workers and his understanding of the class struggle made him invaluable to the defense.

Of equal importance was attorney George F. Vanderveer, who was called into the case a little
later than Moore. Vanderveer was formerly the prosecuting attorney for King county, in which
position he won a reputation for clever and merciless cross-examination. One of Seattle's most
prominent and brilliant lawyers, his wide acquaintance with all classes of people and his comprehensive
knowledge of conditions in King and Snohomish counties, coupled with his keen satire and compelling
logic, gave a force to the case that cannot be underestimated.

Attorney E. C. Dailey of Everett, Caroline A. Lowe of Kansas City, Mo., and Harry Sigmond and
J. L. Finch, both of Seattle, completed the list of counsel for the defense.

After being held in the Seattle city jail for nine days without any charge having been placed
against them, one hundred twenty-eight men who were on the Verona were released, small bodies
of them being sent out at different periods in order to avoid demonstrations from the public.
Those who were released were:

James Agen, Frank Andrews, Brockman Armstrong, W. D. Beachy, J. H. Beyer, John Bolan, J. Bonfield,
Elmer Brisbon, Leonard Broman, George Brown, James Burns, Martin Cable, Val Calze, A. L. Cameron,
James Carlough, J. H. Carr, Ray Clark, Joseph Cline, Archie Collins, Robert Conning, Nick Conaieff,
Joseph Costello, R. F. Dalton, Frank Dante, C. W. Davis, Lawrence Davis, Albert Doninger, John
Donohue, William Dott, Joseph Dougherty, Ned Dustard, J. H. Elliott, C. C. England, John Fitzpatrick,
A. Fletcher, Russell Free, Alfred Freeman, Ben Freeman, James Freeman, John Gibson, Frank Gillarkey,
P. A. Gragler, Charles Gray, James Gray, Paul Grossman, Ed Gruberg, Raymond Gurber, Robert
Hansen, Joe Harris, L. W. Harris, Arnold Hensel, Roy Howell, G. H. Isenberg, Carl Jacobson,
George Johnson, Ray Johnson, John Karne, Henry Krieg, Fred Laveny, Henry Lea, Raymond Lee,
William Ledingham, Charles Leider, Ira Luft, Ed Lynn, George Maguire, William Micklenburg,
August Miller, Dennis Miller, Frank C. Miller, John Miller, Frank Millet, Roy Mitchell, William
Montgomery, William Moore, James Murray, Leo McCabe, J. McCoy, Bernard Narvis, Al. Nickerson,
Ben Noll, Tom Norton, Tom O'Connor, Jack Osborne, E. Peckman, Hans Peterson, A. Pilon, Ira
Porter, Max Ramsey, Edward Rays, Herman Rechlenberg, Frank Reiner, Ernest Rich, John J. Riley,
C. H. Ross, M. Rountell, Steve Sabo, J. L. Samuel, Joe Sarracco, Ed Schwartz, Carl Schultz,
H. Stredwick, Arthur Shumek, Charles Smith, Harry Smith, E. J. Smith, Cecil Snedegar, Frank
Sofer, Stanley Stafl, Raymond St. Clair, John Stroka, Mike Stysco, C. Thomas, Richard Tibbs,
John Utne, Joseph Vito, John Walker, Benny Warshawsky, F. Westwood, Ben Whitehead, Arley Whiteside,
William Wilke, H. Wilson, Frank Wise, and Charles Wolskie.

Most of these were mere boys. Mere boys--but undaunted by their recent terrible experience
on the Verona where the open shop fiends had fired upon them without warning. Mere boys--and
yet they loyally marched straight to the I. W. W. hall as soon as they were released, there
to inquire about the condition of their wounded fellow workers and to gain news of those who
had been taken to Everett to answer charges of first degree murder. Mere boys--youthful enthusiasm
shining on their beardless faces. Scattered among them were a few men of middle years, and
here and there a grey head stood out in bold relief--but the majority of them were mere boys,
youthful soldiers in the Social Revolution, fine and clean and loyal material called together
by the compelling ideal of a New Society.

The predominance of young blood in the organization was noted in the report of the 1912 convention,
where it was shown that ninety per cent of the membership were under thirty years of age, due
of course to the fact that the modern tendency is to displace the older men in industry. As
one wit has put it "If a man works as hard as the employers want him to he is worn out at forty-five;
if he isn't worn out at forty-five he is not the kind of worker the employers want." Others
have noted the percentage of the very young. John Graham Brooks, for instance, in "American
Syndicalism--The I. W. W." has this to say:

"Of the same nature as a characteristic is the +youth+ of the membership. The groups I saw
in the West bore this stamp so unmistakably as to suggest bodies of students at the end of
a rather jolly picnic. The word 'bum' usually applied to them in that region does not fit them.
There are plenty of older men, as there are men with every appearance of being 'down and out'--with
trousers chewed off at the heels, after the manner of tramps, but in face and bearing they
are far from 'bums.' In one of the speeches the young were addressed as 'best material;' because
they could stand the wear and tear of racking journeys. They were free from family responsibilities,
and could at any moment respond to the call of duty."

Bearing out this idea, tho along a somewhat different line, is an excerpt from an article by
Anna Louise Strong which appeared in the Survey magazine just prior to the trial. This and
other articles, together with the personal efforts of Miss Strong, whose official standing
as a member of the Seattle School Board and as Executive Secretary of the Seattle Council of
Social Agencies gave weight to her opinion, did much toward creating a favorable public sentiment
during the trial. Says Miss Strong:

"The boys in jail are a cheerful lot. The 'tanks' which contain them are the tanks of the usual
county jail, much overcrowded now by the unusual number. Bunks crowded above each other, in
full sight thru the bars; a few feet away, all the processes of life open to the casual beholder.
But they sit in groups playing cards or dominoes; they listen to tunes played on the mouth-organ;
most of all they sing. They sing whenever visitors come, and smile thru the bars in cheerful
welcome. Theirs is the spirit of the crusader of all ages, and all causes, won or lost, sane
or insane. Theirs is the irresponsibility and audacious valor of youth. When they disliked
their food, says a conservative newspaper, they went on strike and 'sang all night.' Sang all
night! What sane adults in our drab, business-as-usual world would think of doing that? Who,
in fact, could think of doing it but college boys or Industrial Workers of the World, cheerfully
defying authority?"

Thru an absurd and laughable error J. H. Beyer, one of the seventy-four men charged with first
degree murder, was among those who were released. Beyer immediately sought out and told attorney
Moore his story. Then this "hardened criminal" walked the street of Seattle after public announcement
had been made that he was willing to be taken to Everett to be incarcerated with the rest of
his fellow workers, and that he awaited rearrest. The prosecution made no move to apprehend
him, so on December 14th Beyer went to Everett and asked the authorities to lock him up. The
Snohomish officials shamefacedly granted this unique request but they absolutely refused to
refund the money Beyer had paid to deliver himself up to "Justice."

Before leaving Seattle Beyer made this statement: "I have waited here nearly a month since
my release from the Seattle jail, yet no officer from Everett has come for me. In justice to
the other boys accused I feel that I should share their lot as well as the accusation. I do
not fear returning to Everett and giving myself up for I am confident that we shall be all
exculpated. I am fifty-three years of age and have had many and varied experiences in my career,
but I never expected to be accused of crime because I endeavored to assert my constitutional
right of Free Speech."

The same day that Beyer surrendered himself, bonds of $50 each were secured for thirty-eight
men who had been selected from the Verona and Calista and held on charges of unlawful assembly.
Bail was given by James Duncan, Secretary of the Central Labor Council, and E. B. Ault, editor
of the Union Record, both of Seattle. The released men were Dewey Ashmore, E. Belmat, C. Burke,
L. E. Butcher, James Callahan, Harry Chase, Charles Day, A. J. Deach, Charles Ellis, J. Ford,
Owen Genty, Hy Gluckstad, Frank Goff, James C. Hadley, Steve Heletour, A. O. Hooper, C. C.
Hulbert, H. P. Hunsberger, C. L. Johnson, R. W. Jones, Joe Kelley, F. Lansing, W. O. Lily,
E. McBride, William McGregor, R. Nicholson, David O'Hern, Harry Parker, J. Ryan, Sam Scott,
Mark Skomo, Thomas Smye, and F. Thorpe.

Altho an inquest had been held over the dead gunmen at such an early date after the tragedy
and with such haste as to seem suspicious, repeated demands for an inquest over Labor's dead
were of no avail. No such inquest was ever held. Only by strong protest were the bodies kept
from the potter's field.

Thirty-eight charged with unlawful assembly, seventy-four in jail accused of first degree murder,
thirty-two severely wounded and at least two of these crippled for life, six unaccounted for
and probably shot and drowned, and five known dead in the city morgue,--this was the answer
of the tyrannical timber barons to Labor's demand for free speech and the right to organize
within the confines of the Lumber Kingdom.

FOOTNOTE:

[11] Courtenay Lemon, "Free Speech in the United States." Pearson's Magazine, December 1916.

CHAPTER V.

BEHIND PRISON BARS

"One of the greatest sources of social unrest and bitterness has been the attitude of the police
toward public speaking. On numerous occasions in every part of the country the police of cities
and towns have, either arbitrarily or under the cloak of a traffic ordinance, interfered with
or prohibited public speaking, both in the open and in halls, by persons connected with organizations
of which the police or those from whom they receive their orders did not approve. In many instances
such interference has been carried out with a degree of brutality which would be incredible
if it were not vouched for by reliable witnesses. Bloody riots frequently have accompanied
such interference, and large numbers of persons have been arrested for acts of which they were
innocent or which were committed under the extreme provocation of brutal treatment by police
or private citizens.

"In some cases this suppression of free speech seems to have been the result of sheer brutality
and wanton mischief, but in the majority of cases it undoubtedly is the result of a belief
by the police or their superiors that they were 'supporting and defending the Government' by
such invasion of personal rights. There could be no greater error. Such action strikes at the
very foundation of government. It is axiomatic that a government which can be maintained only
by the suppression of criticism should not be maintained. Furthermore, it is the lesson of
history that attempts to suppress ideas result only in their more rapid propagation."

The foregoing is the view of the Industrial Relations Commission as it appears on page 98 and
99 of Volume One of their official report to the United States Government.

The growth of a public sentiment favorable to the Industrial Workers of the World was clearly
shown on November 18th, at which time the bodies of Felix Baran, Hugo Gerlot and John Looney
were turned over to the organization for burial. Gustav Johnson had already been claimed by
relatives and a private funeral held, and the body of Abraham Rabinowitz sent to New York at
the request of his sister.

Thousands of workers, each wearing a red rose or carnation, formed in line at the undertaking
parlors and then silently marched four abreast behind the three hearses and the automobiles
containing the eighteen women pall bearers and the floral tributes to the martyred dead.

To the strains of the "Red Flag" and the "Marseillaise" the grim and imposing cortege wended
its way thru the crowded city streets, meeting with expressions of sorrow and sympathy from
those who lined the sidewalk. Delegations of workers from Everett, Tacoma, and other Washington
cities and towns were in line, and a committee from Portland, Ore., brought appropriate floral
offerings. The solidarity of labor was shown in this great funeral procession, by all odds
the largest ever held in the Northwest.

Arriving at the graveside in Mount Pleasant cemetery the rebel women reverently bore the coffins
from the hearses to the supporting frame, surrounded by boughs of fragrant pine, above the
yawning pit. A special chorus of one hundred voices led the singing of "Workers of the World,
Awaken," and as the song died away Charles Ashleigh began the funeral oration.

Standing on the great hill that overlooks the whole city of Seattle, the speaker pointed out
the various industries with their toiling thousands and referred to the smoke that shadowed
large portions of the view as the black fog of oppression and ignorance which it was the duty
of the workers to dispel in order to create the Workers' Commonwealth. The entire address was
marked by a simple note of resolution to continue the work of education until the workers have
come into their own, not a trace of bitterness evincing itself in the remarks. Ashleigh called
upon those present never to falter until the enemy had been vanquished. "Today," he said, "we
pay tribute to the dead. Tomorrow we turn, with spirit unquellable, to give battle to the foe!"

As the notes of "Hold the Fort!" broke a moment of dead silence, a shower of crimson flowers,
torn from the coats of the assembled mourners, covered the coffins and there was a tear in
every eye as the bodies slowly descended into their final resting place. As tho loath to leave,
the crowd lingered to sing the "Red Flag" and "Solidarity Forever." Those present during the
simple but stirring service were struck with the thought that the class struggle could never
again be looked upon as a mere bookish theory, the example of those who gave their lives in
the cause of freedom was too compelling a call to action.

But the imperious exactions of the class war left no time for mourning, and ere the last man
had left the graveside the first to go was busily spreading the news of an immense mass meeting
to be held in Dreamland Rink on the next afternoon. At this meeting five thousand persons from
all walks of life gathered to voice their protest against the Everett outrage and to demand
a federal investigation. The labor unions, the clergy, public officials and the general citizenry,
were represented by the speakers. This was the first of many mass meetings held by the aroused
and indignant people of Seattle until the termination of the case.

The "kept" press carried on a very bitter campaign against the I. W. W. for some few days after
the dock tragedy, but dropped that line of action when the public let them understand that
they were striking a wrong note. Thereafter their policy was to ignore, as far as possible,
the entire affair. Practically the only time this rule was broken was in the printing of the
song "Christians At War" by John F. Kendrick, taken from the I. W. W. song book. The Seattle
Post-Intelligencer gave a photographic reproduction of the cover page of the book and of the
page containing the song. The obvious intent was to have people think that this cutting satire
was an urge for the members of the I. W. W. to do in times of peace those inglorious things
that are eminently respectable in times of war. Later the Times, and several other papers,
reproduced the same cover and song, the only change being that certain words were inked out
to make it appear that the song was obscene. And tho the P.--I. had published the song in full
the Times placed beneath their garbled version these words, "The portions blotted out are words
and phrases such as never appear in The Times or in any other decent newspaper." The simultaneous
appearance of this song in a number of papers was merely a coincidence, no doubt; there is
no reason to believe that the lumber trust inspired the attack!

Allied as usual with the capitalist press and "stool pigeons" and employers' associations in
a campaign to discredit the workers involved in the case, was the moribund Socialist Labor
Party thru its organ, the Weekly People.

The entire I. W. W. press came to the support of the imprisoned men as a matter of course.
The Seattle Union Record and many other craft union papers, realizing that an open shop fight
lay back of the suppression of free speech, also did great publicity work. But no particular
credit is due to those "labor leaders" who, like J. G. Brown, president of the Shingle Weavers'
Union, grudgingly gave a modicum of assistance under pressure from radicals in their respective
organizations.

The Northwest Worker of Everett deserves especial praise for its fearless and uncompromising
stand in the face of the bitterest of opposition. This paper had practically to suspend publication
because of pressure the lumber trust brought to bear on the firm doing their printing. This,
with the action recorded in the minutes of the Commercial Club, "decided to go after advertisements
in labor journals and the Northwest Worker," shows that a free press is as obnoxious to the
lumber lords as are free speech and free assembly.

It scarcely needs noting that the International Socialist Review rendered yeoman service, as
that has been its record in all labor cases since the inception of the magazine. Several other
Socialist publications, to whom the class struggle does not appear merely as a momentary quadrennial
event, also did their bit. Diverse foreign language publications, representing varying shades
of radical thought, gave to the trial all the publicity their columns could carry.

Just why seventy-four men were picked as prisoners is a matter of conjecture. Probably it was
because the stuffy little Snohomish county jail could conveniently, to the authorities, hold
just about that number. The men were placed four in a cell with ten cells to each tank, there
being two tanks of steel resting one above the other. Even with all the windows thrown open
the ventilation was so poor that the men were made ill by the foul air.

For almost two full months after being transported to Everett the men were held incommunicado;
were not allowed to see papers or magazines or to have reading matter of any description; were
subjected to the brutalities of Sheriff McRae and other jail officials who had been prominent
in previous outrage and participants in the massacre at the dock; and were fed on the vilest
prison fare. Mush was the principal article of diet; mush semi-cooked and cold; mush full of
mold and maggots; mush that was mainly husks and lumps that could not be washed down with the
pale blue prison milk; mush--until the prisoners fitfully dreamed of mush and gagged at the
mere mention of the word. Finding themselves slowly starving the men decided that it were better
to complete the job at once rather than to linger in misery. A hunger strike was declared!
Meal after meal--or mush after mush--passed and the men refused to eat. Those who were thought
to be leaders in the miniature revolt were thrown in the blackhole where there was neither
light nor fresh air. Still the men refused to eat, so the authorities were forced to surrender
and the men had something to eat besides mush.

Great discomfort was experienced by the prisoners from having to sleep on the cold steel floors
of the unheated cells during the chill November nights. Deciding to remedy the condition they
made a demand for mattresses and blankets from the authorities, not a man of them being willing
to have the Defense Committee purchase such supplies. The needed articles were refused and
the men resorted to a means of enforcing their demands known as "building a battleship."

With buckets and tins, and such strips of metal as could be wrenched loose, the men beat upon
the walls, ceilings, and floors of the steel tanks. Those who found no other method either
stamped on the steel floors in unison with their fellows, or else removed their shoes to use
the heels to beat out a tattoo. To add to the unearthly noise they yelled concertedly with
the full power of their lungs. Three score and ten men have a noise-making power that words
cannot describe. The townspeople turned out in numbers, thinking that the deputies were murdering
the men within the jail. The battleship construction workers redoubled their efforts. Acknowledging
defeat, the jail officials furnished the blankets and mattresses that had been demanded.

A few days later the men started their morning meal only to find that the mush was strongly
"doped" with saltpeter and contained bits of human manure and other refuse--the spite work,
no doubt, of the enraged deputies. Another battleship was started. This time the jailers closed
all the windows in an effort to suffocate the men, but they broke the glass with mop-handles
and continued the din. As before, the deputies were defeated and the men received better food
for a time.

On November 24th an official of the State Board of Prisoners took the finger prints and photographs
of the seventy-four men who were innocent until proven guilty under the "theory" of law in
this country, and, marking these Bertillion records with prison serial numbers, sent copies
to every prison in the United States. In taking the prints of the first few men brute force
was used. Lured from their cells the men were seized, their hands screwed in a vise, and an
imprint taken by forcibly covering their hands with lampblack and holding them down on the
paper. When the others learned that some had thus been selected they voted that all should
submit to having their prints taken so the whole body of prisoners would stand on the same
footing. Attorney Moore was denied all access to the prisoners during the consummation of this
outrage.

After obtaining permission of the jail officials a committee of Everett citizens, with the
voluntary assistance of the Cooks' and Waiters' Union, prepared a feast for the free speech
prisoners on Thanksgiving Day. When the women arrived at the jail they were met by Sheriff
McRae who refused to allow the dinner to be served to the men. McRae was drunk. In place of
this dinner the sheriff set forth a meal of moldy mush so strongly doped with chemicals as
to be unfit for human consumption. This petty spite work by the moon-struck tool of the lumber
trust was in thoro keeping with the cowardly characteristics he displayed on the dock on November
5th. And the extent to which the daily press in Everett was also under the control of the lumber
interests was shown by the publication of a faked interview with attorney Fred Moore published
in the Everett Herald under date of November 29th, Moore having been credited with the statement
that the prison food deserved praise and the prisoners were "given as good food and as much
of it as they could wish."

During the whole of McRae's term as sheriff there was no time that decent food was given voluntarily
to the prisoners as a whole. At times, with low cunning, McRae gave the men in the upper tank
better food than those confined below, and also tried to show favoritism to certain prisoners,
in order to create distrust and suspicion among the men. All these attempts to break the solidarity
of the prisoners failed of their purpose.

On one occasion McRae called "Paddy" Cyphert, one of the prisoners whom he had known as a boy,
from his cell and offered to place him in another part of the jail in order that he might escape
injury in a "clubbing party" the deputies had planned. Cyphert told McRae to put him back with
the rest for he wanted the same treatment as the others and would like to be with them in order
to resist the assault. In the face of this determination, which was typical of all the prisoners,
the contemplated beating was never administered.

McRae would oftentimes stand outside the tanks at a safe distance and drunkenly curse the prisoners
and refer to them as cowards, to which the men would reply by repeating the words of the sheriff
on the dock, "O-oh, I'm hit! I-I'm h-hit!! I-I-I'm h-h-hit!!!" Then they would burst forth
with a song written by William Whalen in commemoration of the exploits of the doughty sheriff,
a song which since has become a favorite of the migratory workers as they travel from job to
job, and which will serve to keep the deeds of McRae fresh in the minds of the workers for
many years to come.

                        TO SHERIFF McRAE

     Call out your Fire Department, go deputize your bums;
     Gather in your gunmen and stool pigeons from the slums;
     You may resolute till doomsday, you ill-begotten knave;
     We'll still be winning Free Speech Fights when you are in your
       grave!

     You reprobate, you imp of hate, you're a traitor to the mind
     That brought you forth in human shape to prey upon mankind.
     You are lower than the snakes that crawl or the scavengers that
       fly;
     You're the living, walking image of a damn black-hearted lie!

     We'll still be here in Everett when your career is ended,
     And back among the dregs of life your dirty hide has blended;
     When you shun the path of honest wrath and fear the days to come,
     And bow your head to the flag of red, you poor white-livered bum!

     For the part you played in Everett's raid that fateful Sunday morn,
     May your kith and kindred live to curse the day that you were born;
     May the memory of your victims haunt your conscience night and day,
     Until your feeble, insect mind beneath the strain gives way!

     Oh, Don McRae, you've had your day; make way for Freedom's host:
     For Labor's sun is rising, soon 'twill shine from coast to coast!
     The shot you fired at Everett re-echoes thru the night
     As a message to the working class to organize and fight!

     Those graves upon the hillside as monuments will stand
     To point the way to Freedom's goal to slaves thruout the land;
     And when at last the working class have made the masters yield,
     May your portion of the victory be a grave in the Potter's Field!

The end of the first week in January brought about the change in the administrative force of
Snohomish county that had been voted at the November election. A new set of lumber trust lackeys
were placed in office. James McCullogh succeeded Donald McRae as sheriff, and Lloyd Black occupied
the office vacated by Prosecuting Attorney O. T. Webb.

The advent of a new sheriff made some slight difference in the jail conditions, but this was
more than offset by the underhanded methods used from that time on with the idea of breaking
the solidarity of the free speech fighters. Liquor was placed in the bathrooms where the men
could easily get hold of it, but even among those who had been hard drinkers on the outside
there were none who would touch it. Firearms were cunningly left exposed in hopes that the
men might take them and attempt a jail break, thus giving the jailers a chance to shoot them
down or else causing the whole case to be discredited. The men saw thru the ruse and passed
by the firearms without touching them.

Working in conjunction with the prosecuting attorney was H. D. Cooley. This gentleman was one
of the deputies on the dock, having displayed there his manly qualities by hiding behind a
pile of wood at first, and later by telling others to go with rifles to head off the Calista
which he had spied approaching from the direction of Mukilteo. Cooley had a practice among
the big lumbermen, and in the case against the I. W. W. he was hired by the state with no stipulation
as to pay. The general excuse given for his activities in the case, which dated from November
6th, was that he was retained by "friends of Jefferson Beard" and other "interested parties."

Attorney A. L. Veitch was also lined up with the prosecution. He was the same gentleman who
had lectured to the deputies during the preceding fall as a representative of the Merchants'
and Manufacturers' Association, and had told the deputies how to handle "outside agitators."
Veitch was also employed by the state as a matter of record, but there was a direct stipulation
that he receive no pay from state funds. He also was employed by "friends of Jefferson Beard"
and other "interested parties."

With Veitch there was imported from Los Angeles one Malcolm McLaren, an M. and M. detective
and office partner with Veitch, to act as "fix-it" man for the lumber trust. McLaren was at
one time an operative for the infamous Wm. J. Burns, and Burns has well said "Private detectives,
ninety per cent of them, as a class, are the worst of crooks, blackmailers and scoundrels."
Under McCullogh's regime this open-shop gumshoe artist had free access to the jail with instructions
to go as far as he liked.

Just what the prisoners thought about jail conditions during the time they were incarcerated
is given in the following report which was smuggled out to the Industrial Worker and published
on March 3rd:

"'Everything is fine and dandy on the outside, don't worry, boys.'"

"This is the first thing we heard from visitors ever since we seventy-four have been incarcerated
in the Snohomish County Jail at Everett.

"While 'everything is fine and dandy on the outside' there are, no doubt, hundreds who would
like to hear how things are on the inside. Let us assure everyone on the outside that 'everything
is fine and dandy' on the inside. We are not worrying as it is but a short time till the beginning
of the trials, the outcome of which we are certain will be one of the greatest victories Labor
has ever known, if there exists a shadow of justice in the courts of America.

"One hundred days in jail so far--and for nothing! Stop and think what one hundred days in
jail means to seventy-four men! It means that in the aggregate the Master Class have deprived
us of more than twenty years of liberty. Twenty years! Think of it, and a prospect of twenty
more before all are at liberty.

"And why?

"There can be but one reason, one answer: We are spending this time in jail and will go thru
the mockery of a trial because the masters of Everett are trying to shield themselves from
the atrocious murders of Bloody November Fifth.

"After being held in Seattle, convicted without a trial, except such as was given us by the
press carrying the advertising of the boss and dependent on him for support, on November 10th
forty-one of us were brought to Everett. A few days later thirty more were brought here.

"We found the jail conditions barbarous. There were no mattresses and only one blanket to keep
off the chill of a Puget Sound night in the cold, unheated steel cells. There were no towels.
We were supplied with laundry soap for toilet purposes, when we could get even that. Workers
confined in lower cells were forced to sleep on the floors. There were five of them in each
cell and in order to keep any semblance of heat in their bodies they had to sleep all huddled
together in all their clothing.

"The first few days we were in the jail we spent in cleaning it, as it was reeking with filth
and probably had never been cleaned out since it was built. It was alive with vermin. There
were armies of bedbugs and body lice. We boiled up everything in the jail and it is safe to
say that it is now cleaner than it had ever been before, or ever will be after the Wobblies
are gone.

"When we first came here the lower floor was covered with barrels, boxes and cases of whiskey
and beer. This was moved in a few days, but evidently not so far but McRae and his deputies
had access to it, as their breath was always charged with the odor of whiskey. It was an everyday
occurrence to have several of the deputies, emboldened by liquid courage and our defenseless
condition--walk around the cell blocks and indulge in the pastime of calling us vulgar and
profane names. Threats were also very common, but we held our peace and were content with the
thought that 'a barking dog seldom bites.'

"The worst of these deputies are gone since the advent of sheriff McCullogh, but there are
some on the job yet who like their 'tea.' About two weeks ago every deputy that came into the
jail was drunk; some of them to the extent of staggering.

"When we first entered the jail, true to the principles of the I. W. W., we proceeded to organize
ourselves for the betterment of our condition. A 'grub' committee, a sanitary committee and
a floor committee were appointed. Certain rules and regulations were adopted. By the end of
the week, instead of a growling, fighting crowd of men, such as one would expect to find where
seventy-four men were thrown together, there was an orderly bunch of real I. W. W.'s, who got
up at a certain hour every morning, and all of whose actions were part of a prearranged routine.
Even tho every man of the seventy-four was talking as loudly as he could a few seconds before
ten p. m., the instant the town clock struck ten all was hushed. If a sentence was unfinished,
it remained unfinished until the following day.

"When the jailer came to the door, instead of seventy-four men crowding up and all trying to
talk at once, three men stepped forward and conversed with him. Our conduct was astonishing
to the jail officials. One of the jailers remarked that he had certainly been given a wrong
impression of the I. W. W. by McRae. He said, 'this bunch is sure different from what I heard
they were. You fellows are all right.' The answer was simply: 'Organization.' Instead of a
cursing, swearing, fighting mob of seventy-four men, such as sheriff McRae would like to have
had us, we were entirely the opposite.

"Time has not hung heavy on our hands. One scarcely notices the length of the days. Educational
meetings are frequent and discussions are constantly in order. Our imprisonment has been a
matter of experience. We will all be better able to talk Industrial Unionism than when we entered
the jail.

"The meals! Did we say 'meals?' A thousand pardons! Next time we meet a meal we will apologize
to it. Up to the time we asserted our displeasure at the stinking, indigestible messes thrown
up to us by a drunken brute who could not qualify as head waiter in a 'nickel plate' restaurant,
we had garbage, pure and simple. Think of it! Mush, bread and coffee at 7:30 a. m., and not
another bite until 4 p. m. Then they handed us a mess which some of us called 'slumgullion,'
composed of diseased beef. Is it any wonder that four of the boys were taken to the hospital?
But we will not dwell on the grub. Suffice it to say we were all more or less sick from the
junk dished out to us. We were all hungry from November 10th until January 22nd. One day in
November we had beans. Little did we surmise the pains, the agony contained in that dish of
innocent looking nutriment, beans. At two in the morning every man in the jail was taken violently
ill. We aroused the guards and they sent for a doctor. He came about eight hours later and
looked disappointed upon learning that we were not dead. This doctor always had the same remedy
in all cases. His prescription was, 'Stop smoking and you will be all right.' This is the same
quack who helped beat up the forty-one members of the I. W. W. at Beverly Park on October 30th,
1916. His nerve must have failed him or his pills would have finished what his pickhandle had
started.

"During the entire time of our confinement under McRae, drunken deputies came into the jail
and did everything in their power to make conditions as miserable as possible for us. McRae
was usually the leader in villification of the I. W. W.

"When on January 8th a change of administration took place, we called a meeting which resulted
in an interview with Sheriff McCullogh. Among other things we demanded a cook. For days the
sheriff stalled us off. He professed that he wanted to do things for our comfort. We gave him
ample time--but there was no change in the conditions. On January 15th the matter came to a
climax. For five days prior to this we had been served with what some called 'mulligan.' In
reality it was nothing more or less than water slightly colored with the juice of carrots.
If there had ever been any meat in it that meat was taken out before the mulligan was served.
We called for the sheriff and were informed that he had gone away. We called for one of our
attorneys who was in one of the outer offices at the time, but Jailer Bridges refused to let
us see him. Having tried peaceful methods without success, we decided to forcibly bring the
matter to the attention of the authorities. We poured the contents of the container out thru
the bars and onto the floor. The boys in the upper tank did the same thing. For doing this
we were given a terrible cursing by Jailer Bridges and the drunken cook, the latter throwing
a piece of iron thru the bars, striking one of the boys on the head, and inflicting a long,
ugly wound. The cook also threatened to poison us.

"That night when we were to be locked in, one of our jailers, decidedly under the influence
of liquor, was in such a condition that he was unable to handle the levers properly and in
some manner put the locking system out of commission. After probably three quarters of an hour,
during which all of us and every I. W. W. in the world were consigned to hell many times, the
doors were finally locked.

"'By God, you s--s-of-b----s will wish you ate that stew,' was the way in which the jailer
said 'good night' to us. The significance of his words was brought back to us next morning
when the time came for us to be unlocked. We were left in our cells without food and with the
water turned off so we could not even have a drink. We might have remained there for hours
without toilet facilities had we not taken matters into our hands. With one accord we decided
to get out of the cells. There was only one way to do this--'battleship!'

"Battleship we did! Such a din had never before been heard in Everett. Strong hands and shoulders
were placed to the doors which gave up their hold on the locks as if they had been made of
pasteboard, and we emerged into the recreation corridors. The lumber trust papers of Everett,
which thought the events of November 5th and the murder of five workers but a picnic, next
day reported that we had wrecked the jail and attempted to escape. We did do a little wrecking,
but as far as trying to escape is concerned that is a huge joke. The jail has not been built
that can hold seventy-four I. W. W. members if they want to escape. We had but decided to forcibly
bring the jail conditions to the attention of the authorities and the citizens. We were not
willing to die of hunger and thirst. We told Sheriff McCullogh we were not attempting to escape;
he knew we were not. Yet the papers came out with an alleged interview in which the sheriff
was made to say that we were. It was also said that tomato skins had been thrown against the
walls of the jail. There were none to throw!

"Summing up this matter: we are here, and here we are determined to remain until we are freed.
Not a man in this jail would accept his liberty if the doors were opened. This is proven by
the fact that one man voluntarily came to the jail here and gave himself up, while still another
was allowed his liberty but sent for the Everett authorities to come and get him while he was
in Seattle. This last man was taken out of jail illegally while still under the charge of first
degree murder, but he preferred to stand trial rather than to be made a party to schemes of
framing up to perjure away the liberties of his fellow workers.

"Signed by the workers in the Snohomish County Jail."

If the authorities hoped to save money by their niggardly feeding policy the battleship of
January 19th, mentioned in the foregoing account, convinced them of their error. With blankets
tied to the cell doors they first tore them open and then twisted them out of shape. Taking
a small piece of gaspipe they disarranged the little doors that controlled the locking system
above each cell, and then demolished the entire system of locks. Every bolt, screw and split
pin was taken out and made useless. While some were thus engaged others were busy getting the
food supplies which were stacked up in a corner just outside the tanks. When Sheriff McCullogh
finally arrived at the jail, some three hours later, he found the prisoners calmly seated amid
the wreckage eating some three hundred pounds of corned beef they had obtained and cooked with
live steam in one of the bath tubs. Shaking his head sadly the sheriff remarked, "You fellows
don't go to the same church that I do." The deputy force worked for hours in cleaning up the
jail, and it took a gang of ironworkers nine working days, at a cost of over $800.00, to repair
the damage done in twenty minutes. Twenty of the "hard-boiled Wobblies" were removed to Seattle
shortly after this, but it was no trouble for the men to gain their demands from that time
on. They had but to whisper the magic word "battleship" to remind the jailers that the I. W.
W. policy, as expressed in a line in Virgil, was about to be invoked:

     "If I cannot bend the powers above,
       I will rouse Hell."

Lloyd Black, prosecuting attorney only by a political accident, soon dropped his ideals and
filled the position of prosecutor as well as his limited abilities allowed, and it was apparent
that he felt the hands of the lumber trust tugging on the strings attached to his job and that
he had succumbed to the insidious influence of his associates. He called various prisoners
from their cells and by pleading, cajoling and threatening in turn, tried to induce them to
make statements injurious to their case.

Fraudulently using the name of John M. Foss, a former member of the General Executive Board
of the I. W. W. and then actively engaged in working for the defense, Black called out Axel
Downey, a boy of seventeen and the youngest of the free speech prisoners, and used all the
resources of his department to get the lad to make a statement. Downey refused to talk to any
of the prosecution lawyers or detectives and demanded that he be returned to his cell. From
that time on he refused to answer any calls from the office unless the jail committee was present.
Nevertheless the name of Axel Downey was endorsed, with several others, as a witness for the
prosecution in order to create distrust and suspicion among the prisoners.

About this time the efforts of Detective McLaren and his associates were successful in "influencing"
one of the prisoners, and Charles Auspos, alias Charles Austin, agreed to become a state's
witness. Contrary to the expectation of the prosecution, the announcement of this "confession"
created no sensation and was not taken seriously on the outside, while the prisoners, knowing
there was nothing to confess, were concerned only in the fact that there had been a break in
their solidarity. "We wanted to come out of this case one hundred per cent clean," was the
sorrowful way in which they took the news.

Auspos had joined the I. W. W. in Rugby, North Dakota, on August 10th, 1916, and whether he
was at that time an agent for the employers is not known, but it is evident that he was not
sufficiently interested in industrial unionism to study its rudimentary principles. It may
be that the previous record of Auspos had given an opportunity for McLaren to work upon that
weak character, for Auspos started his boyhood life in Hudson, Wisconsin, with a term in the
reformatory, and his checkered career included two years in a military guard house for carrying
side-arms and fighting in a gambling den, a dishonorable discharge from the United States Army,
under the assumed name of Ed. Gibson, and various arrests up until he joined the I. W. W.

This Auspos was about 33 years of age, five foot eleven inches tall, weight about 175 pounds,
brown hair, brown eyes, medium complexion but face inclined to be reddish, slight scar on side
of face, and was a teamster and general laborer by occupation, his parents living in Elk River,
Minn.

And while Auspos had by his actions descended to the lowest depths of shame, there were those
among the prisoners who had scaled the heights of self-sacrifice. There were some few among
them whose record would look none too well in the light of day, but the spirit of class solidarity
within them led them to say, "Do with me as you will, I shall never betray the working class."
James Whiteford, arrested under the name of James Kelly, deserves the highest praise that can
be given for he was taken back to Pennsylvania, which state he had left in violation of a parole;
to serve out a long penitentiary sentence which he could have avoided by a few easily told
lies implicating his fellow workers in a conspiracy to do murder on November 5th.

Shortly after the attempted "frame-up" with Axel Downey there was a strong effort made to bring
pressure upon Harvey Hubler. A "lawyer" who called himself Minor Blythe, bearing letters obtained
by misrepresentation from Hubler's father and sister, attempted to get Hubler from his cell
on an order signed by Malcolm McLaren, the detective. With the experience of Downey fresh in
mind, Hubler refused to go out of the tank, even tho the "lawyer" stated that he had been sent
by Hubler's father and could surely get him out of jail.

The next day twelve armed deputies came into the jail to force Hubler to accompany them to
the office. The prisoners as a whole refused to enter their cells, and armed themselves with
such rude weapons as they could find in order to repulse the deputies. The concerted resistance
had its effect and a committee of three, Feinberg, Peters and Watson, accompanied Hubler to
the office. Hubler there refused to read the letter, asking that it be read aloud in the presence
of the other men. The detectives refused to do this and the men were put back in the tank.

That afternoon, with two other prisoners, Hubler went out of the tank to wash his clothes.
The jailers had been awaiting this opportunity and immediately locked the men out. The gunmen
then overpowered Hubler and dragged him struggling to the office. The letter was then read
to Hubler, who made no comment further than to say that the I. W. W. had engaged attorneys
to defend him and he wished to be taken back where the rest of the men were.

Meanwhile the men in the tanks had started another battleship. A hose had been installed in
the jail since the previous battleship and the deputies turned this upon the men as soon as
the protest started. The prisoners retaliated by taking all mattresses, blankets, clothing
and supplies belonging to the county and throwing them where they would be ruined by the water,
and not knowing what was happening to Hubler they shouted "Murder" at the top of their voices.
While the trouble was going on several members of the I. W. W., many Everett citizens, and
one attorney tried to gain admittance to the jail office to learn the cause of the disturbance,
but this was denied for more than an hour. Hubler was finally brought back and the battleship
ceased. The county had to furnish new bedding and clothing for the prisoners.

After this occurrence the prisoners were allowed the run of the corridors and were often let
out to play ball upon the jail lawn, with only two guards to watch them. There were no disorders
in the jail from that time on.

A committee of Everett women asked permission to serve a dinner to the imprisoned men and when
this was granted they fairly outdid themselves in fixing up what the boys termed a "swell feed."
This was served to the men thru the bars but tasted none the less good on that account.

The Seattle women, not to be outdone, gave a banquet to the prisoners who had been transported
to the Seattle county jail. The banquet was spread on tables set the full length of the jail
corridor, and the menu ran from soup to nuts. An after dinner cigar, and a little boutonniere
of fragrant flowers furnished by a gray-haired old lady, completed the program.

These banquets and the jail visitors, together with numerous books, magazines and papers--and
a phonograph that was in almost constant operation--made the latter part of the long jail days
endurable.

The defense was making strong efforts, during this time, to secure some judge other than Bell
or Alston, the two superior court judges of Snohomish County, finally winning a victory in
forcing the appointment of an outside judge by the governor of the state.

Judge J. T. Ronald, of King County, was selected by Governor Lister, and after the men had
pleaded "Not Guilty" on January 26th, a change of venue on account of the prejudice existing
in Everett's official circles was asked and granted, Seattle being selected as the place where
the trial would take place.

Eleven of the prisoners were named on the first information, the men thus arraigned being F.
O. Watson, John Black, Frank Stuart, Charles Adams, Harston Peters, Thomas H. Tracy, Harry
Feinberg, John Downs, Harold Miller, Ed Roth and Thomas Tracy. The title of the case was "State
vs. F. O. Watson et al.," but the first man to come to trial was Thomas H. Tracy. The date
of the trial was set for March 5th.

On November 5th, when he was taken from the Verona to jail, Thomas H. Tracy gave his name at
the booking window as George Martin, in order to spare the feelings of relatives to whom the
news of his arrest would have proven a severe shock. When the officers were checking the names
later he was surprised to hear them call out "Tracy, Thomas Tracy." Thinking that his identity
was known because of his having been secretary in Everett for a time, he stepped forward. An
instant later a little fellow half his size also marched to the front. There were two Tom Tracys
among the arrested men! Neither of them knew the other! Tracy then gave his correct name and
both he and "Little Tom Tracy" were later held among the seventy-four charged with murder in
the first degree.

During all the time the free speech fighters were awaiting trial the lumber trust exerted its
potent influence at the national capital to the end of preventing any congressional investigation
of the tragedy of November 5th and the circumstances surrounding it. The petitions of thousands
of citizens of the state of Washington were ignored. All too well the employers knew what a
putrid state of affairs would be uncovered were the lumber trust methods exposed to the pitiless
light of publicity. That the trial itself would force them into the open evidently did not
enter into their calculations.

In changing the information charging the murder of C. O. Curtis to the charge of murdering
Jefferson Beard the prosecution thought to cover one point beyond the possibility of discovery,
which change seems to have been made as a result of the exhuming of the body of C. O. Curtis
in February. Curtis had been buried in a block of solid concrete and this had to be broken
apart in order to remove the body. Just who performed the autopsy cannot be ascertained as
the work was covered in the very comprehensive bill of $50.50 for "Exhuming the body of C.
O. Curtis, and autopsy thereon," this bill being made out in the name of the superintendent
of the graveyard and was allowed and paid by Snohomish County. This, together with the fact
that at no time during the trial did the prosecution speak of C. O. Curtis as having met his
death at the hands of the men on the Verona, seems to bear out the contention of the defense
that Curtis was the victim of the rifle fire of one of his associates.

So on March 5th, after holding the free speech prisoners for four months to the day, the lumber
trust, in the name of the State of Washington, brought the first of them, Thomas H. Tracy,
to trial, on a charge of first degree murder, in the King County Court House at Seattle, Washington.

CHAPTER VI.

THE PROSECUTION

The King County Court House is an imposing, five story, white structure, covering an entire
block in the business section of the city of Seattle. Its offices for the conduct of the county
and city business are spacious and well appointed. Its corridors are ample, and marble. The
elevator service is of the best. But the courtrooms are stuffy little dens, illy ventilated,
awkwardly placed, and with the poorest of acoustics. They seem especially designed to add to
the depressing effect that invariably attends the administration of "law and order." The court
of Judge Ronald, like many other courts in the land, is admirably designed for the bungling
inefficiencies of "justice." Yet it was in this theater, thru the medium of the Everett trial,
that the class struggle was reproduced, sometimes in tragedy and sometimes in comedy.

To reach the greatest trial in the history of labor unionism, perhaps the greatest also in
the number of defendants involved and the number of witnesses called, one had to ascend to
the fourth floor of the court house and line up in the corridor under the watchful eyes of
the I. W. W. "police," C. R. Griffin and J. J. Keenan, appointed by the organization at the
request of the court. There, unless one were a lawyer or a newspaper representative, it was
necessary to wait in line for hours until the tiny courtroom was opened and the lucky hundred
odd persons were admitted to the church-like benches of J. T. Ronald's sanctum, where the case
of State versus Tracy was on trial.

Directly in front of the benches, at the specially constructed press table, were seats provided
for the representatives of daily, weekly and monthly publications whose policies ranged from
the ultra conservative to the extreme radical. Here the various reporters were seen writing
madly as some important point came up, then subsiding into temporary indifference, passing
notes, joking in whispers, drawing personal cartoons of the judge, jury, counsel, court functionaries
and out-of-the-ordinary spectators,--the only officially recognized persons in the courtroom
showing no signs of reverence for the legal priesthood and their mystic sacerdotalism.

Just ahead of the press table were the attorneys for the prosecution: Lloyd Black, a commonplace,
uninspired, beardless youth as chief prosecutor; H. D. Cooley, a sleek, pusillanimous recipient
of favors from the lumber barons, a fixture at the Commercial Club, and an also-ran deputy
at the dock on November 5th, as next counsel in line; and A. L. Veitch, handsome in a gross
sort of a way, full faced, sensual lipped, with heavy pouches beneath the eyes, a self-satisfied
favorite of the M. & M., and withal the most able of the three who by virtue of polite fiction
represented the state of Washington. From time to time in whispered conference with these worthy
gentlemen was a tall, lean, grey, furtive-eyed individual who was none other than the redoubtable
Californian detective, Malcolm McLaren.

At right angles to this array of prosecutors the counsel for the defense were seated, where
they remained until the positions were reversed at the close of the prosecution's case. Chief
counsel Fred H. Moore, serious, yet with a winning smile occasionally chasing itself across
his face and adding many humorous wrinkles to the tired-looking crow-feet at the corners of
his eyes; next to him George F. Vanderveer, a strong personality whose lightning flashes of
wit and sarcasm, marshalled to the aid of a merciless drive of questions, were augmented by
a smile second only to Moore's in its captivating quality; then E. C. Dailey, invaluable because
of his knowledge of local conditions in Everett and personages connected with the case; and
by his side, at times during the trial, was H. Sigmund, special counsel for Harry Feinberg.

Seated a little back, but in the same group, was a man of medium height, stocky built, slightly
ruddy complexion, black hair, and twinkling blue eyes. He was to all appearances the most composed
man in the courtroom. A slight smile crept over his face, at times almost broadened into a
laugh, and then died away. This was Thomas H. Tracy, on trial for murder in the first degree.

To the rear of the defendant and forming a deep contrast to the determined, square-jawed prisoner
was the guard, a lean, hungry-looking deputy with high cheek bones, unusually sharp and long
nose and a pair of moustachios that drooped down upon his chest, a wholly useless and most
uncomfortable functionary who could scarce seat himself because of the heavy artillery scattered
over his anatomy.

The court clerk, an absurdly dignified court bailiff, a special stenographer, and Sheriff McCullogh
of Snohomish county, occupied the intervening space to the pulpit from which Judge J. T. Ronald
delivered his legal invocations.

The judge, a striking figure, over six feet in height and well proportioned, of rather friendly
countenance and bearing in street dress, resembled nothing so much as a huge black owl when
arrayed in his sacred "Mother Hubbard" gown, with tortoise-shell rimmed smoked glasses resting
on his slightly aquiline nose and surmounting the heavy, closely trimmed, dark Vandyke beard.

To the right of the judge as he faced the audience was the witness chair, and across the whole
of the corner of the room was a plat of the Everett City Dock and the adjacent waterfront,
together with a smaller map showing part of the streets of the city. The plat was state's exhibit
"A." Below these maps on a tilted platform was a model of the same dock, with the two warehouses,
waiting room, Klatawa Slip, and the steamer Verona, all built to scale. This was defendant's
exhibit "1."

Extending from these exhibits down the side of the railed enclosure, were seats for two extra
jurors. The filling of this jury box from a long list of talesmen was the preliminary move
to a trial in which the defendant was barely mentioned, and which involved the question of
Labor's right to organize, to assemble peaceably, to speak freely, and to advocate a change
in existing social arrangements. Capital was lined up in a fight against Labor. There was a
direct reflection in the courts of the masters of the age-long, world-wide class struggle.

The examination of talesmen occupied considerable time. Each individual was asked whether he
had read any of the following papers: The Industrial Worker, The Socialist World, or the Pacific
Coast Longshoreman. The prosecution also inquired as to the prospective juror's familiarity
with the I. W. W. Song Book and the various works on Sabotage. Union affiliations were closely
inquired into, and favorable mention of the right to organize brought a challenge from the
state. The testing of the talesmen was no less severe on the part of the defense.

Fifty-one talesmen were disqualified, after long and severe legal battles, before a jury was
finally secured from among the voters and property owners who alone were qualified to serve.
The jury, as selected, was rather more intelligent than was to be expected when consideration
is taken of the fact that any person who acknowledged having an impression, an opinion, or
a conclusion regarding the merits of the case was automatically excused from service. Those
who were chosen to sit on the case were:

Mrs. Mattie Fordran, wife of a steamfitter; Robert Harris, a rancher; Fred Corbs, bricklayer,
once a member of the union, then working for himself; Mrs. Louise Raynor, wife of a master
mariner; A. Peplan, farmer; Mrs. Clara Uhlman, wife of a harnessmaker in business for himself;
Mrs. Alice Freeborn, widow of a druggist; F. M. Christian, tent and awning maker; Mrs. Sarah
F. Brown, widow, working class family; James R. Williams, machinist's helper, member of union;
Mrs. Sarah J. Timmer, wife of a union lineman, and T. J. Byrne, contractor. The two alternate
jurors, provided for under the "Extra Juror" law of Washington, passed just prior to this trial,
were: J. W. Efaw, furniture manufacturer, president of Seattle Library Board and Henry B. Williams,
carpenter and member of a union.

Judge Ronald realized the importance of the case as was shown in his admonition to the jury,
a portion of which follows:

"It is plain, from both sides here, that we are making history. Let us see that the record
that we make in this case,--you and I, as a court,--be a landmark based upon nothing in the
world but the truth. We may deceive some people and we may, a little, deceive ourselves; but
we cannot deceive eternal truth."

On the morning of March 9th Judge Ronald, the tail of his black gown firmly in hand, swept
into the courtroom from his private chambers, the assembled congregation arose and stood in
deep obeisance before His Majesty The Law, the pompous bailiff rapped for order and delivered
an incantation, the Judge seated himself on the throne of "Justice," the assemblage subsided
into their seats--and the trial was opened in earnest. Prosecuting Attorney Lloyd Black then
gave his opening statement, the gist of which is contained in the following quotations:

"You are at the outset of a murder trial, murder in the first degree. The defendant, Thomas
H. Tracy, alias George Martin, is charged with murder in the first degree, in having assisted,
counselled, aided, abetted and encouraged some unknown person to kill Jefferson Beard on the
5th of November, 1916.

"* * * As far as the state is concerned, no one knows or can know or could follow the course
of the particular bullet that struck and mortally wounded and killed Jefferson Beard.

"* * * The evidence further will show that the first, or one of the first, shots fired was
from the steamer Verona and was from a revolver held in the hand of Thomas H. Tracy.

"* * * As to the killing of Jefferson Beard itself the probabilities are, as the evidence of
the state will indicate, that he was killed by someone on the hurricane deck of the Verona
because the evidence will show that the revolver shots went thru his overcoat, missing his
coat, and thru his vest, and had a downward course, so that it must have come from the upper
deck. The evidence will show that Thomas H. Tracy was on the main deck firing thru an open
cabin window.

"* * * Of the approximately 140 special and regular deputies of Snohomish County about one-half
were armed, some with revolvers, some with rifles and some with clubs.

"* * * When the fusilade had come from the I. W. W.'s on the Verona, a portion of the deputies
ran thru a door into this warehouse, (indicating): a portion of them went into that warehouse,
and used some of the knotholes there, and some shot holes thru which they could see, * * *"

Black then gave a recital of the lumber trust version of the events leading up to November
5th, bringing in the threats of an alleged committee who were said to have declared "that they
would call thousands of their members to the city of Everett, flood the jails, demand separate
trials, and tie up and overwhelm the court machinery, and that the mayor should consider that
they had beaten Spokane and killed its chief, killed Chief Sullivan of that city, that they
had defeated Wenatchee and North Yakima, and now it was Everett's turn."

"* * * That in furtherance of their threats that they would burn the city of Everett, that
a number of mysterious fires took place, fires connected with some person who was opposed to
the I. W. W. * * * And in addition, the I. W. W. members were arrested at different times preceding
this trouble on the 5th of November and phosphorus was found upon their person either in cans
or wrapped up.

"* * * At different times, the evidence will show, Sheriff Donald McRae and other peace officers
of the city of Everett, including Mayor Merrill, received anonymous letters, and also received
direct statements from the I. W. W. that they would get them; and, as one speaker put it, he
says 'Sheriff McRae will wake up some day and say '"Good morning, Jesus!"'

Black continued his recital of events, admitting the "Wanderer" incident, but he tried to sidestep
the criminal actions at Beverly Park.

"Now, there happened at Beverly Park an incident that the State in this action doesn't feel
that it has anything to do with this particular cause."

Ironical laughter at this juncture caused the removal of several spectators from the courtroom.
So disconcerted was Black that he proceeded to give away the real cause of action against the
I. W. W.

"The I. W. W. organization itself is an unlawful conspiracy, an unlawful conspiracy in that
it was designed for the purpose of effecting an absolute revolution in society and in government,
effecting it not by the procedure of law thru the ballot, but for effecting it by direct action.
The I. W. W. meant to accomplish the change in society, not by organization as the labor unions
hope to get higher wages, not to get into effect their theory of society by the ballot, as
the Socialists hope, but that they expressly state that the election of a Socialist president
will accomplish no good, and that sabotage should be employed against government ownership
as well as against private production, so that directly they might put into effect their theories
of government and society."

The defense reserved the right to make their opening statement at the close of the prosecution's
case, thus leaving the state in the dark as to the line of defense, and forcing them to open
their case at once.

Lester L. Beard and Chester L. Beard, twin sons of the deceased deputy sheriff, testified as
to the condition of their father's clothing, Attorney Vanderveer drawing from Lester Beard
the admission that his father was an employment agent in Seattle in 1914.

Following them, Drs. William O'Keef Cox, H. P. Howard, and William P. West testified to having
performed an autopsy on Beard and described the course of the bullet upon entering the body.
Dr. West was an armed guard at the land end of the City Dock on November 5th, Dr. Cox was also
on the dock as a deputy, and Dr. Howard carried a membership in the Commercial Club. They were
the physicians present when the autopsy was performed.

The next witness, Harry W. Shaw, a wood and coal dealer of Everett, admitted having joined
the citizen deputies because of a call issued by the sheriff thru the Commercial Club. Shaw
went to the dock on November 5th, carrying, as he claimed, a revolver with a broken firing
pin which he had hoped to have repaired on that Sunday on the way to the dock. He was close
to Beard when the latter fell and helped to carry him from the open space on the dock into
the warehouse. He afterward accompanied Beard to the hospital in an automobile and returned
to the dock with Beard's unfired revolver in his possession. He swore that he had seen McRae
sober three times in succession! When asked by Attorney Moore he gave an affirmative answer
to this pertinent question:

"You knew that the matter of the enforcement of the city ordinances of Everett was peculiarly
within the powers of the police department of the city, didn't you?"

Owen Clay was then called to the stand. Clay had been made bookkeeper of the Weyerhouser Mill
about a year and a half before this, and had been given a membership in the Commercial Club
at the time. He was injured in the right arm in the trouble at the dock and then ran around
the corner of the ticket office, after which he emptied his revolver with his left hand. Attorney
Vanderveer questioned this witness as follows:

"Who shot Jeff Beard in the right breast?"

"I don't know."

"Did you do it?"

"I don't know."

"Thank you! That's all," said Vanderveer with a smile.

The next witness was C. A. Mitchell, employee of the Clark-Nickerson Mill. He testified that
he belonged to Company "B" under the command of Carl Clapp. His testimony placed Sheriff McRae
in the same position as that given by the preceding witness, about eight to ten feet from the
face of the dock in the center of the open space between the two warehouses, but unlike Clay,
who testified that McRae had his left hand in the air, he was positive that the sheriff had
his right hand in the air at the time the shooting started.

W. R. Booth, engaged in real estate and insurance business, a member of the Commercial Club,
and a deputy at the dock, was next called. Attorney Cooley asked this witness about the speech
made at an unspecified street meeting. Vanderveer immediately objected as follows:

"We object to that as immaterial and calling for a conclusion of the witness. He does not know
who was speaking, nor whether he was authorized to do it, or brought there by the Industrial
Workers of the World, or a hireling of the Merchants' and Manufacturers' society. It has happened
time and time again that people are employed by these capitalists themselves to go out and
make incendiary speeches and cause trouble, and employed to go out and fire buildings and do
anything to put the opposition in wrong."

When questioned about McRae's position on the dock, Booth stated that the sheriff had both
hands in the air. This witness admitted having been a member of the "Flying Squadron" and being
a participant in the outrage at Beverly Park. He named others who went out with him in the
same automobile, Will Seivers and Harry Ramwell, and stated that A. P. Bardson, clerk of the
Commercial Club, was probably there as he had been out on all the other occasions. He said
that he would not participate in the beating up of anyone, and that when the affair started
he went up the road for purposes of his own. He was asked by Vanderveer as to the reason for
continuing to associate with people who had abused the men at Beverly Park, to which he replied:

"Because I believe in at least trying to maintain law and order in our city."

During the examination of this witness, and at various times thruout the long case, it was
only with evident effort that Attorney Vanderveer kept on the unfamiliar ground of the class
struggle, his natural tendencies being to try the case as a defense of a pure and simple murder
charge.

W. P. Bell, an Everett attorney representing a number of scab mills, a member of the Commercial
Club and a deputy on the dock, testified next, contradicting the previous witnesses but throwing
no additional light upon the case. He was followed by Charles Tucker, a scab and gunman employed
by the Hartley Shingle Company and a deputy on the dock. Tucker lied so outrageously that even
the prosecution counsel felt ashamed of him. He was impeached by his own testimony.

Editor J. A. MacDonald of the Industrial Worker was called to the stand to show the official
relation of the paper to the I. W. W. and to lay a foundation for the introduction of a file
of the issues prior to November 5th. A portion of the file was introduced as evidence and at
the same time the state put in as exhibits a copy of the I. W. W. Constitution and By-Laws,
Sabotage by Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, Sabotage by Walker C. Smith, The Revolutionary I. W. W.
by Grover H. Perry, The I. W. W., Its History, Structure and Methods by Vincent St. John, and
the Joe Hill Memorial Edition of the Song Book.

Herbert Mahler, former secretary of the Seattle I. W. W. and at the time Secretary-Treasurer
of the Everett Prisoners' Defense Committee, was next upon the stand. He was asked to name
various committees and to identify certain telegrams. The unhesitatingly clear answers of both
MacDonald and Mahler were in vivid contrast to the mumbled and contradictory responses of the
deputies.

William J. Smith, manager of the Western Union Telegraph Company was then called to further
corroborate certain telegrams sent and received by the I. W. W.

As the next step in the case prosecutor Black read portions of the pamphlet "Sabotage" by Smith,
sometimes using half a paragraph and skipping half, sometimes using one paragraph and omitting
the next, provoking a remonstrance from Attorney Vanderveer which was upheld by the Court in
these words:

"You have a right to do what you are doing, Mr. Black, but it don't appeal to my sense of fairness
if other omissions are as bad as the one you left out. You are following the practice, but
I don't know of an instance where there has been such an awful juggling about, and it is discretionary
with the Court, and I want to be fair in this case. I want to let them have a chance to take
the sting out of it so as to let the jury have both sides, because it is there. Now, Mr. Vanderveer,
I am going to leave it to you not to impose upon the Court's discretion. Any new phases I don't
think you have the right to raise, but anything that will modify what he has read I think you
have the right to."

Thereupon Vanderveer read all the omitted portions bearing upon the case, bringing special
emphasis on these two parts:

"Note this important point, however. Sabotage does not seek nor desire to take human life."

"Sabotage places human life--and especially the life of the only useful class--higher than
all else in the universe."

With evidences of amusement, if not always approval, the jury then listened to the reading
of numerous I. W. W. songs by Attorney Cooley for the prosecution, tho some of the jurymen
shared in the bewilderment of the audience as to the connection between the song "Overalls
and Snuff" and defendant Tracy charged with a conspiracy to commit murder in the first degree.

D. D. Merrill, Mayor of Everett, next took the stand. He endeavored to give the impression
that the I. W. W. was responsible for a fire loss in Everett of $100,000.00 during the latter
part of the year 1916. Vanderveer shot the question:

"From whom would you naturally look for information on the subject of fires?"

"From the Fire Chief, W. C. Carroll," replied the mayor;

"We offer this report in evidence," said Vanderveer crisply.

The report of the Fire Chief was admitted and read. It showed that there were less fires in
1916 that in any previous year in the history of Everett, and only four of incendiary origin
in the entire list!

The prosecution tried to squirm out of this ticklish position by stating that they meant also
the fires in the vicinity of Everett, but here also they met with failure for the principal
fire in the surrounding district was in the co-operative mill, owned by a number of semi-radical
workingmen at Mukilteo.

The mayor told of having been present at the arrest of several men taken from a freight train
at Lowell, just at the Everett city limits. Some of these men were I. W. W.'s, and on the ground
afterward there was said to have been found some broken glass about which there was a smell
of phosphorus. The judge ruled out this evidence because there were other than I. W. W. men
present, no phosphorus was found on the men, and if only one package were found it would not
indicate a conspiracy but might have been brought by an agent of the employers. This was the
nearest the prosecution came at any time in the trial in their attempt to connect the I. W.
W. with incendiary fires.

A tense moment in this sensational trial came during the testimony of Mayor Merrill, when young
Louis Skaroff was suddenly produced in court and the question flashed at the cringing witness:

"Do you recognize this boy standing here? Do you recognize him, Louis Skaroff?"

"I think I have seen him," mumbled the mayor.

"Let me ask you if on the 6th day of November at about ten o'clock at night in a room in the
City Hall at Everett where there was a bed room having an iron bedstead in it, in the presence
of the jailer, didn't you have an interview with this man?"

Merrill denied having mutilated Skaroff's fingers beneath the casters of the bed, but even
the capitalist press reported that his livid face and thick voice belied his words of denial.

And Prosecutor Lloyd Black remarked heatedly, "I don't see the materiality of all this."

Merrill left the stand, having presented the sorriest figure among the number of poor witnesses
produced by the prosecution.

Carl Clapp, superintendent of the Municipal Waterworks at Everett, and commander of one of
the squads of deputies, followed with testimony to the effect that sixty rifles from the Naval
Militia were stored in the Commercial Club on November 5th. At this juncture the hearing of
further evidence was postponed for a half day to allow Attorney Vanderveer to testify on behalf
of Mayor H. C. Gill in a case then pending in the Federal Court.

On several other occasions Vanderveer was called to testify in this case and there were times
when it was thought that he also would be indicted and brought to trial, yet with this extra
work and the threat of imprisonment hanging over him, Vanderveer never flagged in his keen
attention to the work of the defense. It was commonly thought that the case against Gill and
the attempt to involve Vanderveer were moves of the lumber trust and Chamber of Commerce directed
toward the I. W. W., for in the background were the same interested parties who had been forced
to abandon the recall against Seattle's mayor. Gill's final acquittal in this case was hailed
as an I. W. W. victory.

Upon the resumption of the trial the prosecution temporarily withdrew Clapp and placed Clyde
Gibbons on the stand. This witness was the son of James Gibbons, a deceased member of the I.
W. W., well and favorable known in the Northwest. James Gibbons was killed by a speeding automobile
about a year prior to the trial, and his widow and son, Clyde, were supported by the I. W.
W. and the Boiler Makers' Union for several months thereafter.

Clyde Gibbons, altho but seventeen years old, joined the Navy by falsifying his age. Charity
demands that the veil be drawn over the early days of Clyde's training, yet his strong imagination
and general untruthfulness are matters of record. He was shown in court to have stolen funds
left in trust with him by Mrs. Peters, one of the persons against whom his testimony was directed.
It is quite probable that the deceit about his age, or some other of his queer actions, were
discovered and used to force him to testify as the prosecution desired. The following testimony
bears out this idea:

"Who was it that you met at the Naval Recruiting Station and took you to McLaren?"

"I don't know his name."

"Well, how did you get to talking to this total stranger about the Everett matter?"

"He told me he wanted to see me in the judge's office."

"And they took you down to the judge's office, did they?"

"Yes, sir."

"And when you got to the judge's office you found you were in Mr. McLaren's and Mr. Veitch's
and Mr. Black's office in the Smith Building?"

"Yes, sir."

Gibbons testified as to certain alleged conversations in an apartment house frequented by members
of the I. W. W., stating that a party of members laid plans to go to Everett and to take with
them red pepper, olive oil and bandages. Harston Peters, one of the defendants, had a gun that
wouldn't shoot and so went unarmed, according to this witness. Gibbons also stated that Mrs.
Frenette took part in the conversation in this apartment house on the morning of the tragedy,
whereupon Attorney Moore asked him:

"On directing your attention to it, don't you remember that you didn't see Mrs. Frenette at
all in Seattle, anywhere, at any time subsequent to Saturday night; that she went to Everett
on Saturday night?"

"Well, I am quite sure I saw her Sunday, but maybe I am mistaken."

The judge upheld the defense attorneys in their numerous objections to the leading questions
propounded by prosecutor Black during the examination of this witness.

Clapp was recalled to the stand and testified further that Scott Rainey, head of the U. S.
Naval Militia at Everett, had ordered Ensign McLean to take rifles to the dock, and that the
witness and McLean had loaded the guns, placed them in an auto and taken them to the dock,
where they were distributed to the deputies just as the Verona started to steam away.

Ignorance as to the meaning of simple labor terms that are in the every-day vocabulary of the
"blanketstiff" was shown by Clapp in his answers to these queries:

"What is direct action?"

"Using force instead of lawful means."

"What do you mean?"

"Well, either physical force, or conspiracy."

"You understand conspiracy to be some kind of force, do you?"

"It may be force."

When asked where he had obtained information about sabotage, this witness said that he had
looked up the word in Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, a work in which the term is strangely
absent.

Clapp was the first witness to admit the armed character of the deputy body and also to state
that deputies with guns were stationed on all of Everett's docks.

After excusing this witness, Cooley brought in copies of two city ordinances covering street
speaking in Everett. One of them which allowed the holding of meetings at the corner of Hewitt
and Wetmore Avenues was admitted without question, but the other which purported to have been
passed on September 19, 1916, was objected to on the ground that it had not been passed, was
never put upon passage and never moved for passage in the Everett City Council.

Richard Brennan, chauffeur of the patrol wagon, A. H. Briggs, city dog catcher, and Floyd Wildey,
police officer, all of Everett, then testified regarding the arrest of I. W. W. members during
August and September. Wildey stated that on the night of August 30 four or five members of
the I. W. W. came away from their street meeting carrying sections of gaspipe in their hands.
This was thought to be quite a blow against the peaceful character of the meeting until it
was discovered on cross-examination that the weapons were the removable legs of the street
speaking platform.

David Daniels, Arthur S. Johnson, Garland Queen, J. R. Steik, M. J. Fox and, later on, Earl
Shaver, all of whom were police officers in Everett, gave testimony along somewhat the same
lines as the other witnesses from Everett who owed their jobs to the lumber trust. They stated
that the I. W. W. men deported on August 23rd, had made threats against McRae and several police
officers.

Ed. M. Hawes, proprietor of a scab printing and stationery company, member of the Commercial
Club and citizen deputy, gave testimony similar to that of other vigilantes as to the trouble
on November 5th. When asked if he had ever known any I. W. W. men offering resistance, Hawes
replied that one had tried to start a fight with him at Beverly Park. Having thus established
his connection with this infamous outrage, further questioning of this witness developed much
of the story of the brutal gauntlet and deportation. Hawes told of one of his prisoners making
an endeavor to escape, and when asked whether he blamed the man for trying to get away, answered
that he thought the prisoner was a pretty big baby.

"You thought he was a pretty big baby?" queried Vanderveer.

"Yes, sir."

"Or do you think the men were pretty big babies and cowards who were doing the beating?"

The witness had no answer to this question.

"How much do you weigh?" demanded Vanderveer sharply.

"I weigh 260 pounds," replied Hawes.

Frank Goff and Henry Krieg, two young lads who were severely beaten at Beverly Park, were suddenly
produced in court and the big bully was made to stand alongside of them. He outweighed the
two of them. It was plainly evident who the pretty big baby was!

Howard Hathaway, law student and assistant to the state secretary of the Democratic Central
Committee, was forced to admit his connection with the raid upon the launch "Wanderer" and
also upon the men peacefully camping at Maltby. His testimony was mainly for the purpose of
making it appear that James P. Thompson had advocated that the shingle weavers set fire to
the mills and win their strikes by methods of terrorism.

Two newspaper reporters, William E. Jones of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, and J. J. Underwood
of the Seattle Times, were placed upon the stand in order to lay the foundation for an introduction
of an article appearing in the P-I on Sunday morning, November 5th. Jones testified that he
was present at the Seattle police station when Philip K. Ahern, manager of the Pinkerton Detective
Agency, requested the release of Smith and Reese, two of his operatives who had been on the
Verona. Underwood stated that upon hearing of the treatment given the I. W. W. men at Beverly
Park he had exclaimed, "I would like to see anybody do that to me and get away with it."

"You meant that, did you?" asked Vanderveer.

"You bet I meant it!" asserted the witness positively.

The two reporters proved to be better witnesses for the defense than for the prosecution.

Sanford Asbury, T. N. Henry, Ronald Johnson, John S. Donlan, and J. E. Gleason, then testified
regarding the movements of the men who left Seattle on the Verona and Calista on the morning
of November 5th. They uniformly agreed that the crowd was in no way disorderly, nor were their
actions at all suspicious. The defense admitted that the Verona had been chartered but stated
that there were passengers other than I. W. W. members on board.

The first witness from the Verona was Ernest Shellgren, the boat's engineer, who testified
that he was in the engine pit when the boat landed and heard crackling sounds telegraphed down
the smoke stack that he knew an instant later were bullets. He was struck by a spent bullet
and ran to various places on the boat seeking shelter from the hail of lead that appeared to
come from all directions, finally returning to the boiler as the safest place on the boat.
He stated that he saw one man firing a blue steel revolver from the boat, only the hand and
revolver being in his line of vision. The only other gun he saw was one in the hands of the
man who asked him to back the boat away from the dock during the firing. He also stated that
the I. W. W. men on the way over to Everett comported themselves as was usual with any body
of passengers.

Shellgren was asked if he could identify John Downs or Thomas H. Tracy as being connected with
the firing in any way and he stated that he could not do so. The defense objected to the use
of Downs' picture, as it did on every occasion where a picture of one of the prisoners was
used, on the grounds that the photographs were obtained by force and in defiance of the constitutional
rights of the imprisoned free speech fighters.

Seattle police detectives, Theodore Montgomery and James O'Brien, who made a search of the
Verona upon its return to Seattle, testified to having found a little loose red pepper, two
stones the size of a goose egg tied up in a cloth, and a few empty cartridges. These two witnesses
also developed the fact that in no case were regular bandages used on the wounded men, thus
establishing the fact that no serious trouble was anticipated.

James Meagher, occupation "home owner," member of the Commercial Club and citizen deputy, testified
that a hundred shots were fired from the Verona before a gun was pulled on the dock, one of
the first shots striking him in the leg. This witness was asked:

"Did you see a single gun on the boat?"

"No sir," was his mumbled response.

The prosecution witnesses disagreed as to the number of lines of deputies stretched across
the back and sides of the open space on the dock, the statements varying from one to four files.

Chad Ballard, Harry Gray, and J. D. Landis, of the Seattle police detective bureau, and J.
G. McConnell, Everett Interurban conductor, testified to the return and arrest of Mrs. Frenette,
Mrs. Mahler and Mrs. Peters, after the trouble on November 5th. The police officers also told
of a further searching of the Verona on its return. The defense admitted that some of the members
had red pepper in their possession and stated that they would ask the judge to instruct the
jury that red pepper is a weapon of defense and not of offense and that murder cannot be committed
with red pepper.

Elmer Buehrer, engineer at the Everett High School, and citizen deputy, gave testimony that
was halting, confused and relatively unimportant. He was prompted by the prosecution to such
an extent that Attorney Vanderveer at the close of one question said, "Look at me and not at
counsel."

"Look where you please," cried Cooley angrily.

"Well, look where you please," rejoined Vanderveer. "He can't help you."

It was apparent that the only reason for putting on this witness and former witness Meagher
was because of a desire to create sympathy thru the fact that they had been wounded on the dock.

Edward Armstrong, master mariner on the Verona, testified that he had thrown out the spring
line and lifted out the gate when the firing started. He fell to the deck behind a little jog,
against the bulkhead, and while in that position two bullets went thru his cap. Altho this
witness stated that he judged from the sound that the first shot came from some place to the
rear of him, his testimony as to the attitude of McRae was as follows:

"I seen him with his right hand hanging on the butt of the gun."

"And that was before there was any shooting?"

"Yes sir."

As to the condition of the boat after the trouble he gave an affirmative answer to the question:

"You know that the whole front of the pilot house and the whole front of this bulkhead front
of the forward deck leading to the hurricane deck is full of B. B. shot, don't you?"

James Broadbent, manager of the Clark-Nickerson Mill, and a citizen deputy, followed Armstrong
with some unimportant testimony.

L. S. Davis, steward on the Verona, also stated that McRae committed the first overt act in
taking hold of his gun. He was asked:

"He had his hand on his gun while he was still facing you?"

"Yes sir. I could see it plainly," answered Davis.

"That was before he started to turn, before he was hit?"

"Yes sir."

Davis was wounded in the arm as he was on the pilot house steps.

He was asked about the general disposition, manner and appearance of the men on the Verona
on the way over to Everett, and answered:

"I thought they were pretty nicely behaved for men--for such a crowd as that."

"Any rough talk; any rough, ugly looks?"

"No sir."

"Any guns?"

"No."

"Any threats?"

"I didn't hear any threats."

"Jolly, good-natured bunch of boys?"

"Yes."

"Lots of young boys among them, weren't there?"

"Yes, quite a few."

Davis stated that three passengers got off at Edmunds on the way up to Everett, thus establishing
the fact that there were other than I. W. W. men on board.

R. S. "Scott" Rainey, commercial manager of the Puget Sound Telephone Company and a citizen
deputy, was called and examined at some length before it was discovered that he was not an
endorsed witness. This was the second time that the prosecution had turned this trick. Vanderveer
objected, stating that there would be two hundred endorsed witnesses who would not be used.

"Oh no!" returned Mr. Veitch.

"Well," said Vanderveer, "a hundred then. A hundred we dare you to produce!"

"We will take that dare," responded Veitch. But the prosecution failed to keep their word,
and deputy Dave Oswald of the Pacific Hardware Company, who during the various deportations
tried to have the I. W. W. men stripped, covered with hot tar, rolled in feathers and ridden
out of town on a rail, and a number of his equally degenerate brother outlaws were never produced
in court.

Rainey testified that he had seen a quantity of murderous looking black-jacks in the Commercial
Club for distribution to the deputies. He also saw men fall overboard from the Verona and saw
none of them rescued. He thought there were twenty-five men with guns on the boat, and he did
his firing at the main deck.

"And you didn't care whether you hit one of the twenty-five or one of the other two hundred
and twenty-five?" scornfully inquired Vanderveer.

"No sir," said the miserable witness.

The next witness called was William Kenneth, city dock wharfinger in the employ of Captain
Ramwell. This witness testified that there were numerous holes in the warehouses that were
smooth on the inside and splintered on the outside, thus indicating that they were from shots
blindly fired thru the walls from within. On being recalled on the Monday morning session of
March 26th the witness said he wished to state that he was unable to testify from which direction
the holes in the warehouses had been made. It appeared that he had discovered the bullet marks
to have been whittled with a penknife since he had last viewed them.

Arthur Blair Gorrell, of Spokane, student at the State University, was on the dock during the
trouble and was wounded in the left shoulder blade. He stated that he knew that McRae had his
gun drawn before he was shot.

Captain K. L. Forbes, of the scab tugboat Edison, next took the witness chair. He didn't like
the idea of calling his crew scabs for the engineer carried a union card. When questioned about
the actions of the scab cook on the Edison, this witness would not state positively that the
man was not firing directly across the open space on the dock at the Verona, and in line with
Curtis and other deputies.

Thomas E. Headlee, ex-mayor of Everett, bookkeeper at the Clark-Nickerson mill, and a citizen
deputy, said he went whenever and wherever he was called to go by the sheriff.

"Then it's just like this," said Vanderveer, "when you pull the string, up jumps Headlee?"

This witness tried to blame all the fires in Everett onto the I. W. W. and the absurdity of
his testimony brought this question from the defense:

"Just on general principles you blame it on the I. W. W.?"

"Sure!" replied the witness, "I got their reputation over in Wenatchee from my brother-in-law
who runs a big orchard there."

Lewis Connor, member of the Commercial Club, and his friend, Edwin Stuchell, university student,
both of whom were deputies on the dock on November 5th, then testified, but developed nothing
of importance. Stuchell's father was part owner of the Eclipse mill and was said to have been
on the board of directors of the Commercial Club. These witnesses were followed by Raymond
E. Brown, owner of an Everett shoe store, a weak-kneed witness who had been sworn in as a deputy
by W. W. Blain, secretary of the Commercial Club.

One of the greatest sensations in this sensational trial was when former sheriff Donald McRae
took the stand on Tuesday, March 27th.

McRae was sober!

The sheriff was fifty years of age, of medium height, inclined to stoutness, smooth-shaven,
with swinish eyes set closely on either side of a pink-tinted, hawk-like nose that curved just
above a hard, cruel and excessively large mouth. The sneering speech and contemptible manner
of this witness lent weight to the admissions of his brutality that had been dragged from reluctant
state's witnesses thru the clever and cutting cross-examination conducted by Moore and Vanderveer.

McRae told of his former union affiliations, having once been International Secretary of the
Shingle Weavers' Union, and on another occasion the editor of their paper--but he admitted
that he had never in his life read a book on political economy.

He detailed the story of the arrests, deportations and other similar actions against the striking
shingle weavers and the I. W. W. members, the recital including an account of the "riot" at
the jail, the deportation of Feinberg and Roberts, the shooting at the launch "Wanderer" and
the jailing of its passengers, and the seizing of forty-one men and their deportation at Beverly
Park. McRae's callous admissions of brutality discounted any favorable impression his testimony
might otherwise have conveyed to the jury.

He admitted having ordered the taking of the funds of James Orr to pay the fares of workers
deported on August 23rd, but denied the truth of an account in the Everett Herald of that date
in which it was said that I. W. W. men had made some remarks to him "whereupon Sheriff McRae
and police officer * * promptly retaliated by cracking the I. W. W.'s on the jaw with husky fists."

Regarding the launch "Wanderer" the sheriff was asked:

"Did you strike Captain Mitten over the head with the butt of your gun?"

"Certainly did!" replied McRae with brutal conciseness.

"Did any blood flow?"

"A little, not much."

"Not enough to arouse any sympathy in you?"

"No," said the sheriff unfeelingly.

"Did you strike a little Finnish fellow over the head with a gun?"

"I certainly did!"

"And split his head open and the blood ran out, but not enough to move you to any sympathy?"

"No, not a bit!" viciously answered McRae.

"Did you hit any others?" inquired Vanderveer.

"No, not then."

"Why not?"

"They probably seen what happened to the captain and the other fellow for getting gay."

As to the holding of Mitten in jail for a number of days on a charge of resisting an officer,
and his final release, McRae was asked:

"Why didn't you try him on that charge?"

"Because when we let the I. W. W.'s go they insisted on him going, too, and I said, 'all right,
take him along.'"

"You did whatever the I. W. W.'s wanted in that?"

"Well, I was glad to get rid of them," remarked the sheriff.

McRae said that none of the men taken to Beverly Park were beaten on the dock before being
placed in automobiles for deportation, but on cross-examination he admitted that one of the
deputies got in a mix-up and was beaten by a brother deputy. The sheriff stated that he took
one man out to Beverly Park in a roadster, and had then returned to Everett to attend a dance
given by the Elks' lodge.

In relating the events on November 5th, McRae's story did not differ materially from that of
the witnesses who had already testified. He stated that a bullet passed thru his foot, striking
the heel of his shoe, and coming out of the side. The shoe was then offered in evidence. He
testified that another shot struck the calf of his leg and passed completely thru the limb.
Both these wounds were from the rear. His entire suit was offered in evidence. The coat had
nine bullet holes in it, yet McRae was not injured at all in the upper portion of his body!
The sheriff stated that he fired twenty shots in all, and was then removed to the Sister's
Hospital while the shooting was still in progress.

McRae then identified Ed Roth, James Kelly and Thomas H. Tracy as three of the I. W. W. men
who were most active in firing from the Verona. In his identification of Tracy, McRae stated
that the defendant was in the second or third cabin window aft the door, and was hanging out
of the window with his breast against the sill and his elbow on the ledge. Vanderveer then
placed himself in the position described by the sheriff and requested McRae to assume the same
attitude he was in at the time he saw Tracy. Upon doing this it was apparent that the edge
of the window sill would have cut off all view of Tracy's face from the sheriff, so McRae endeavored
to alter his testimony to make it appear that Tracy's face was a foot or more inside the cabin
window. This was the first identification of Tracy or other men on the boat that was attempted
by the prosecution.

The sheriff stated that there were only twenty or twenty-five armed men on the Verona, and
he admitted, before he left the stand, that he had told Attorney Vanderveer it was a pity that
the spring line on the Verona did not break when the boat tilted so as to drown all the I.
W. W.'s in the Bay.

Charles Auspos, alias Charles Austin, followed McRae as the state's witness second in importance
only to the ex-sheriff. The testimony of these two was relied upon for a conviction.

Just why Auspos joined the I. W. W. will never be known, but his claim was that he could not
work in the Dakota harvest fields or ride on the freight trains without an I. W. W. card. He
was asked:

"When you did line up, you were then willingly a member, were you?"

"Yes sir."

"And you did not go to Yakima and come back to Seattle to fight for free speech because you
were compelled to do so?" asked Moore.

"No," replied Auspos, "there was no compulsion."

Auspos stated that he was willing to take a chance in the fight for free speech and that the
worst he expected was something similar to the happenings at Beverly Park. That he was not
so willing in his testimony was shown by the uneasy actions of the prosecution lawyers, who
moved from place to place around the court room during the examination of this witness, with
the view of having him look one of them in the eyes at all times during his recital. At one
time Black nearly climbed into the jury box, while Cooley fidgeted in his chair placed directly
in the middle of the aisle, and Veitch stood back of the court clerk on the opposite side of
the court room, trying to engage the attention of the hesitating witness.

The testimony was to the effect that Auspos had reached Seattle on Saturday, November 4th,
and had slept in the I. W. W. hall that night. Next morning at about eleven o'clock he returned
from breakfast and was again admitted with examination for a membership card. A meeting was
in progress in the gymnasium but was too crowded for him to be able to get in. There was no
secrecy, however, just as there was no oath of fealty demanded of a worker upon joining the
organization. The witness claimed that he and one of the defendants, J. E. Houlihan, were standing
together in the hall when "Red" Doran called Houlihan aside into the gymnasium. Two minutes
later Houlihan returned and said, "I made it." "What did you get?" Auspos declared he then
asked his partner, receiving the reply, "A thirty-eight." Auspos claimed he saw Earl Osborne
cleaning a gun in the gymnasium that same morning, and there was a rifle or shotgun in a canvas
case in one corner. He said that men were breaking up chairs to obtain legs as clubs and that
he, with others, was furnished with a little package of red pepper.

Regarding his actions upon the Verona the witness stated that he and James Hadley came up the
steps from the freight deck to the passenger deck just as the boat was nosing against the dock
and that he walked across the deck to a point within three feet of the rail. His description
of the motion of McRae's hands differed from that given by the deputy witnesses and was such
as would indicate the drawing of a gun from a belt holster. He testified that McRae swung around
to the right just before being shot, thus contradicting McRae, who had declared that the turn
he had made was to the left. The witness in a rather indefinite manner stated that the first
shot came from the boat. All the damaging claims in the testimony of Auspos were severely shaken
by the cross-examination conducted by Moore, and Auspos finally admitted that the only point
on which he wished to have his evidence differ from the statement he had made to Vanderveer
prior to the trial was in the matter of the firing of the first shot. Auspos made no attempt
to identify anyone on the boat as having a firearm.

During the examination some reference was made to "Red" Downs, at which Judge Ronald remarked:

"I am a little confused. Did he say 'Red' Downs or 'Red' Doran?"

"There are two of them," responded Moore.

"Lots of red in this organization," cut in prosecutor Cooley, amid laughter from the spectators.

Attorney Moore brought from Auspos the admission that the plea of "Not Guilty" was a true one
and he still believed that he and the other prisoners were not guilty of any crime. Yet such
are the peculiarities of the legal game that an innocent man can turn state's evidence upon
his innocent associates.

After uncovering the previous record of Auspos, he was asked about his "confession" as follows:

"Mr. McLaren and you had reached an understanding in your talk before Mr. Cooley came?"

"Yes sir."

"The question of what you are to get in connection with your testimony here has not as yet
been definitely decided?"

"I am going to get out of the country."

"You are not going to get a trip to Honolulu?" asked Moore with a smile as he concluded the
cross-examination of Auspos.

"No sir," stammered the tool of the prosecution unconvincingly.

It was at this point that the prosecution introduced several additional leaflets and pamphlets
issued by the I. W. W. Publishing Bureau, the principal reason being to allow them to appeal
to the patriotism of the jury by referring to Herve's pamphlet, "Patriotism and the Worker,"
and Smith's leaflet, "War and the Workers."

The next witness after Auspos was Leo Wagner, another poor purchase on the part of the prosecution.
He merely testified that a man on the Calista had said that the men were armed and were not
going to stand for being beaten up. Objection was made to the manner in which Cooley led the
witness with his questions, and when Cooley stated that it was necessary to refresh the memory
of the witness, Vanderveer replied that the witness had been endorsed but a few days before
and his recollection should not be so very stale.

When this witness was asked what he was paid for his testimony he squirmed and hesitated until
the court demanded an answer, whereupon he said:

"I got enough to live on for a while."

William H. Bridge, deputy sheriff and Snohomish county jailer, was the next witness. He stated
on his direct examination that the first shot came from the second or third window back from
the door on the upper cabin. Black asked Bridge:

"How do you know there was a shot from that place?"

"Because I saw a man reach out thru the window and shoot with a revolver."

"In what position was he when shooting?"

"Well, I could see his hand and a part of his arm and a part of his body and face."

"Who was the man, if you know?"

"Well, to the best of my judgement, it was the defendant, Thomas H. Tracy."

Under Vanderveer's cross-examination this witness was made to place the model of the Verona
with its stern at the same angle as it had been at the time of the shooting. The witness was
then asked to assume the same position he had been in at the time he said he had seen Tracy.
The impossibility of having seen the face of a man firing from any of the cabin windows was
thus demonstrated to the jury.

Then to clinch the idea that the identification was simply so much perjury, Vanderveer introduced
into evidence the stenographic report of the coroner's inquest held over Jefferson Beard in
which the witness, Bridge, had sworn that the first shot came from an open space just beneath
the pilot house and had further testified that he could not recognize the person who was doing
the firing.

Walter H. Smith, a scab shingle weaver, and deputy on the dock, followed with a claim to have
recognized Tracy as one of the men who was shooting from the Verona. He also stated that he
could identify another man who was shooting from the forward deck. He was handed a number of
photographs and failed to find the man he was looking for. Instead he indicated one of the
photographs and said that it was Tracy. Vanderveer immediately seized the picture and offered
it in evidence.

"I made a mistake there," remarked Smith.

"I know you did," responded Vanderveer, "and I want the jury to know it."

The witness had picked out a photograph of John Downs and identified it as the defendant.

The prosecution then called S. A. Mann, who had been police judge in Spokane, Wash., from 1908
into 1911, and questioned him in regard to the Spokane Free Speech fight and the death of Chief
of Police John Sullivan. Here attorney Fred Moore was on familiar ground, having acted for
the I. W. W. during the time of that trouble. Moore developed the fact that there had been
several thousand arrests with not a single instance of resistance or violence on the part of
the I. W. W., not a weapon found on any of their persons, and no incendiary fires during the
entire fight. He further confounded the prosecution by having Judge Mann admit that in the
Spokane fight a prisoner arrested on a city charge was always lodged in the city jail and one
arrested on a county charge was always placed in the county jail--a condition not at all observed
in Everett.

