As the name of Rizal had constantly recurred during the trials of the Katipunan suspects, the
military tribunal finally issued a formal demand for him. The order of arrest was cabled to
Port Said and Rizal there placed in solitary confinement for the remainder of the voyage. Arrived
at Barcelona, he was confined in the grim fortress of Montjuich, where; by a curious coincidence,
the governor was the same Despujols who had issued the decree of banishment in 1892. Shortly
afterwards, he was placed on the transport Colon, which was bound for the Philippines with
troops, Blanco having at last been stirred to action. Strenuous efforts were now made by Rizal's
friends in London to have him removed from the ship at Singapore, but the British authorities
declined to take any action, on the ground that he was on a Spanish warship and therefore beyond
the jurisdiction of their courts. The Colon arrived at Manila on November third and Rizal was
imprisoned in Fort Santiago, while a special tribunal was constituted to try him on the charges
of carrying on anti-patriotic and anti-religious propaganda, rebellion, sedition, and the formation
of illegal associations. Some other charges may have been overlooked in the hurry and excitement.

It would be almost a travesty to call a trial the proceedings which began early in December
and dragged along until the twenty-sixth. Rizal was defended by a young Spanish officer selected
by him from among a number designated by the tribunal, who chivalrously performed so unpopular
a duty as well as he could. But the whole affair was a mockery of justice, for the Spanish
government in the Philippines had finally and hopelessly reached the condition graphically
pictured by Mr. Kipling:

            Panic that shells the drifting spar--
            Loud waste with none to check--
            Mad fear that rakes a scornful star
            Or sweeps a consort's deck!

The clamor against Blanco had resulted in his summary removal by royal decree and the appointment
of a real "pacificator," Camilo Polavieja.

While in prison Rizal prepared an address to those of his countrymen who were in armed rebellion,
repudiating the use of his name and deprecating the resort to violence. The closing words are
a compendium of his life and beliefs: "Countrymen: I have given proofs, as well as the best
of you, of desiring liberty for our country, and I continue to desire it. But I place as a
premise the education of the people, so that by means of instruction and work they may have
a personality of their own and that they may make themselves worthy of that same liberty. In
my writings I have recommended the study of the civic virtues, without which there can be no
redemption. I have also written (and my words have been repeated) that reforms, to be fruitful,
must come from above, that those which spring from below are uncertain and insecure movements.
Imbued with these ideas, I cannot do less than condemn, and I do condemn, this absurd, savage
rebellion, planned behind my back, which dishonors the Filipinos and discredits those who can
speak for us. I abominate all criminal actions and refuse any kind of participation in them,
pitying with all my heart the dupes who have allowed themselves to be deceived. Go back, then,
to your homes, and may God forgive those who have acted in bad faith." This address, however,
was not published by the Spanish authorities, since they did not consider it "patriotic" enough;
instead, they killed the writer!

Rizal appeared before the tribunal bound, closely guarded by two Peninsular soldiers, but maintained
his serenity throughout and answered the charges in a straightforward way. He pointed out the
fact that he had never taken any great part in politics, having even quarreled with Marcelo
del Pilar, the active leader of the anti-clericals, by reason of those perennial "subscriptions,"
and that during the time he was accused of being the instigator and organizer of armed rebellion
he had been a close prisoner in Dapitan under strict surveillance by both the military and
ecclesiastical authorities. The prosecutor presented a lengthy document, which ran mostly to
words, about the only definite conclusion laid down in it being that the Philippines "are,
and always must remain, Spanish territory." What there may have been in Rizal's career to hang
such a conclusion upon is not quite dear, but at any rate this learned legal light was evidently
still thinking in colors on the map serenely unconscious in his European pseudo-prescience
of the new and wonderful development in the Western Hemisphere--humanity militant, Lincolnism.

The death sentence was asked, but the longer the case dragged on the more favorable it began
to look for the accused, so the president of the tribunal, after deciding, Jeffreys-like, that
the charges had been proved, ordered that no further evidence be taken. Rizal betrayed some
sunrise when his doom was thus foreshadowed, for, dreamer that he was, he seems not to have
anticipated such a fatal eventuality for himself. He did not lose his serenity, however, even
when the tribunal promptly brought in a verdict of guilty and imposed the death sentence, upon
which Polavieja the next day placed his Cúmplase, fixing the morning of December thirtieth
for the execution.

So Rizal's fate was sealed. The witnesses against him, in so far as there was any substantial
testimony at all, had been his own countrymen, coerced or cajoled into making statements which
they have since repudiated as false, and which in some cases were extorted from them by threats
and even torture. But he betrayed very little emotion, even maintaining what must have been
an assumed cheerfulness. Only one reproach is recorded: that he had been made a dupe of, that
he had been deceived by every one, even the bankeros and cocheros. His old Jesuit instructors
remained with him in the capilla, or death-cell, [13] and largely through the influence of
an image of the Sacred Heart, which he had carved as a schoolboy, it is claimed that a reconciliation
with the Church was effected. There has been considerable pragmatical discussion as to what
form of retraction from him was necessary, since he had been, after studying in Europe, a frank
freethinker, but such futile polemics may safely be left to the learned doctors. That he was
reconciled with the Church would seem to be evidenced by the fact that just before the execution
he gave legal status as his wife to the woman, a rather remarkable Eurasian adventuress, who
had lived with him in Dapitan, and the religious ceremony was the only one then recognized
in the islands. [14] The greater part of his last night on earth was spent in composing a chain
of verse; no very majestic flight of poesy, but a pathetic monody throbbing with patient resignation
and inextinguishable hope, one of the sweetest, saddest swan-songs ever sung.

Thus he was left at the last, entirely alone. As soon as his doom became certain the Patriots
had all scurried to cover, one gentle poetaster even rushing into doggerel verse to condemn
him as a reversion to barbarism; the wealthier suspects betook themselves to other lands or
made judicious use of their money-bags among the Spanish officials; the better classes of the
population floundered hopelessly, leaderless, in the confused whirl of opinions and passions;
while the voiceless millions for whom he had spoken moved on in dumb, uncomprehending silence.
He had lived in that higher dreamland of the future, ahead of his countrymen, ahead even of
those who assumed to be the mentors of his people, and he must learn, as does every noble soul
that labors "to make the bounds of freedom wider yet," the bitter lesson that nine-tenths,
if not all, the woes that afflict humanity spring from man's own stupid selfishness, that the
wresting of the scepter from the tyrant is often the least of the task, that the bondman comes
to love his bonds--like Chillon's prisoner, his very chains and he grow friends,--but that
the struggle for human freedom must go on, at whatever cost, in ever-widening circles, "wave
after wave, each mightier than the last," for as long as one body toils in fetters or one mind
welters in blind ignorance, either of the slave's base delusion or the despot's specious illusion,
there can be no final security for any free man, or his children, or his children's children.

                                     COLERIDGE.

It was one of those magic December mornings of the tropics--the very nuptials of earth and
sky, when great Nature seems to fling herself incontinently into creation, wrapping the world
in a brooding calm of light and color, that Spain chose for committing political suicide in
the Philippines. Bagumbayan Field was crowded with troops, both regulars and militia, for every
man capable of being trusted with arms was drawn up there, excepting only the necessary guards
in other parts of the city. Extra patrols were in the streets, double guards were placed over
the archiepiscopal and gubernatorial palaces. The calmest man in all Manila that day was he
who must stand before the firing-squad.

Two special and unusual features are to be noted about this execution. All the principal actors
were Filipinos: the commander of the troops and the officer directly in charge of the execution
were native-born, while the firing-squad itself was drawn from a local native regiment, though
it is true that on this occasion a squad of Peninsular cazadores, armed with loaded Mausers,
stood directly behind them to see that they failed not in their duty. Again, there was but
one victim; for it seems to have ever been the custom of the Spanish rulers to associate in
these gruesome affairs some real criminals with the political offenders, no doubt with the
intentional purpose of confusing the issue in the general mind. Rizal standing alone, the occasion
of so much hurried preparation and fearful precaution, is a pathetic testimonial to the degree
of incapacity into which the ruling powers had fallen, even in chicanery.

After bidding good-by to his sister and making final disposition regarding some personal property,
the doomed man, under close guard, walked calmly, even cheerfully, from Fort Santiago along
the Malecon to the Luneta, accompanied by his Jesuit confessors. Arrived there, he thanked
those about him for their kindness and requested the officer in charge to allow him to face
the firing-squad, since he had never been a traitor to Spain. This the officer declined to
permit, for the order was to shoot him in the back. Rizal assented with a slight protest, pointed
out to the soldiers the spot in his back at which they should aim, and with a firm step took
his place in front of them.

Then occurred an act almost too hideous to record. There he stood, expecting a volley of Remington
bullets in his back--Time was, and Life's stream ebbed to Eternity's flood--when the military
surgeon stepped forward and asked if he might feel his pulse! Rizal extended his left hand,
and the officer remarked that he could not understand how a man's pulse could beat normally
at such a terrific moment! The victim shrugged his shoulders and let the hand fall again to
his side--Latin refinement could be no further refined!

A moment later there he lay, on his right side, his life-blood spurting over the Luneta curb,
eyes wide open, fixedly staring at that Heaven where the priests had taught all those centuries
agone that Justice abides. The troops filed past the body, for the most part silently, while
desultory cries of "Viva España!" from among the "patriotic" Filipino volunteers were summarily
hushed by a Spanish artillery-officer's stern rebuke: "Silence, you rabble!" To drown out the
fitful cheers and the audible murmurs, the bands struck up Spanish national airs. Stranger
death-dirge no man and system ever had. Carnival revelers now dance about the scene and Filipino
schoolboys play baseball over that same spot.

A few days later another execution was held on that spot, of members of the Liga, some of them
characters that would have richly deserved shooting at any place or time, according to existing
standards, but notable among them there knelt, torture-crazed, as to his orisons, Francisco
Roxas, millionaire capitalist, who may be regarded as the social and economic head of the Filipino
people, as Rizal was fitted to be their intellectual leader. Shades of Anda and Vargas! Out
there at Balintawak--rather fitly, "the home of the snake-demon,"--not three hours' march from
this same spot, on the very edge of the city, Andres Bonifacio and his literally sansculottic
gangs of cutthroats were, almost with impunity, soiling the fair name of Freedom with murder
and mutilation, rape and rapine, awakening the worst passions of an excitable, impulsive people,
destroying that essential respect for law and order, which to restore would take a holocaust
of fire and blood, with a generation of severe training. Unquestionably did Rizal demonstrate
himself to be a seer and prophet when he applied to such a system the story of Babylon and
the fateful handwriting on the wall!

But forces had been loosed that would not be so suppressed, the time had gone by when such
wild methods of repression would serve. The destruction of the native leaders, culminating
in the executions of Rizal and Roxas, produced a counter-effect by rousing the Tagalogs, good
and bad alike, to desperate fury, and the aftermath was frightful. The better classes were
driven to take part in the rebellion, and Cavite especially became a veritable slaughter-pen,
as the contest settled down into a hideous struggle for mutual extermination. Dark Andres went
his wild way to perish by the violence he had himself invoked, a prey to the rising ambition
of a young leader of considerable culture and ability, a schoolmaster named Emilio Aguinaldo.

MANILA, December 1, 1909

What? Does no Caesar, does no Achilles, appear on your stage now?
    Not an Andromache e'en, not an Orestes, my friend?

No! there is nought to be seen there but parsons, and syndics of commerce,
    Secretaries perchance, ensigns and majors of horse.

But, my good friend, pray tell, what can such people e'er meet with
    That can be truly call'd great?--what that is great can they do?

                                        SCHILLER: Shakespeare's Ghost.
                                              (Bowring's translation.)

CONTENTS

                Author's Dedication

    I           A Social Gathering
    II          Crisostomo Ibarra
    III         The Dinner
    IV          Heretic and Filibuster
    V           A Star in a Dark Night
    VI          Capitan Tiago
    VII         An Idyl on an Azotea
    VIII        Recollections
    IX          Local Affairs
    X           The Town
    XI          The Rulers
    XII         All Saints
    XIII        Signs of Storm
    XIV         Tasio: Lunatic or Sage
    IV          The Sacristans
    XVI         Sisa
    XVII        Basilio
    XVIII       Souls In Torment
    XIX         A Schoolmaster's Difficulties
    XX          The Meeting in the Town Hall
    XXI         The Story of a Mother
    XXII        Lights and Shadows
    XXIII       Fishing
    XXIV        In the Wood
    XXV         In the House of the Sage
    XXVI        The Eve of the Fiesta
    XXVII       In the Twilight
    XXVIII      Correspondence
    XXIX        The Morning
    XXX         In the Church
    XXXI        The Sermon
    XXXII       The Derrick
    XXXIII      Free Thought
    XXXIV       The Dinner
    XXXV        Comments
    XXXVI       The First Cloud
    XXXVII      His Excellency
    XXXVIII     The Procession
    XXXIX       Doña Consolación
    XL          Right and Might
    XLI         Two Visits
    XLII        The Espadañas
    XLIII       Plans
    XLIV        An Examination of Conscience
    XLV         The Hunted
    XLVI        The Cockpit
    XLVII       The Two Señoras
    XLVIII      The Enigma
    XLIX        The Voice of the Hunted
    L           Elias's Story
    LI          Exchanges
    LII         The Cards of the Dead and the Shadows
    LIII        Il Buon Dí Si Conosce Da Mattina
    LIV         Revelations
    LV          The Catastrophe
    LVI         Rumors and Belief
    LVII        Vae Victis!
    LVIII       The Accursed
    LIX         Patriotism and Private Interests
    LX          Maria Clara Weds
    LXI         The Chase on the Lake
    LXII        Padre Damaso Explains
    LXIII       Christmas Eve

                Epilogue
                Glossary

AUTHOR'S DEDICATION

To My Fatherland:

Recorded in the history of human sufferings is a cancer of so malignant a character that the
least touch irritates it and awakens in it the sharpest pains. Thus, how many times, when in
the midst of modern civilizations I have wished to call thee before me, now to accompany me
in memories, now to compare thee with other countries, hath thy dear image presented itself
showing a social cancer like to that other!

Desiring thy welfare, which is our own, and seeking the best treatment, I will do with thee
what the ancients did with their sick, exposing them on the steps of the temple so that every
one who came to invoke the Divinity might offer them a remedy.

And to this end, I will strive to reproduce thy condition faithfully, without discriminations;
I will raise a part of the veil that covers the evil, sacrificing to truth everything, even
vanity itself, since, as thy son, I am conscious that I also suffer from thy defects and weaknesses.

THE AUTHOR

EUROPE, 1886

THE SOCIAL CANCER

CHAPTER I

A Social Gathering

On the last of October Don Santiago de los Santos, popularly known as Capitan Tiago, gave a
dinner. In spite of the fact that, contrary to his usual custom, he had made the announcement
only that afternoon, it was already the sole topic of conversation in Binondo and adjacent
districts, and even in the Walled City, for at that time Capitan Tiago was considered one of
the most hospitable of men, and it was well known that his house, like his country, shut its
doors against nothing except commerce and all new or bold ideas. Like an electric shock the
announcement ran through the world of parasites, bores, and hangers-on, whom God in His infinite
bounty creates and so kindly multiplies in Manila. Some looked at once for shoe-polish, others
for buttons and cravats, but all were especially concerned about how to greet the master of
the house in the most familiar tone, in order to create an atmosphere of ancient friendship
or, if occasion should arise, to excuse a late arrival.

This dinner was given in a house on Calle Anloague, and although we do not remember the number
we will describe it in such a way that it may still be recognized, provided the earthquakes
have not destroyed it. We do not believe that its owner has had it torn down, for such labors
are generally entrusted to God or nature--which Powers hold the contracts also for many of
the projects of our government. It is a rather large building, in the style of many in the
country, and fronts upon the arm of the Pasig which is known to some as the Binondo River,
and which, like all the streams in Manila, plays the varied rôles of bath, sewer, laundry,
fishery, means of transportation and communication, and even drinking water if the Chinese
water-carrier finds it convenient. It is worthy of note that in the distance of nearly a mile
this important artery of the district, where traffic is most dense and movement most deafening,
can boast of only one wooden bridge, which is out of repair on one side for six months and
impassable on the other for the rest of the year, so that during the hot season the ponies
take advantage of this permanent status quo to jump off the bridge into the water, to the great
surprise of the abstracted mortal who may be dozing inside the carriage or philosophizing upon
the progress of the age.

The house of which we are speaking is somewhat low and not exactly correct in all its lines:
whether the architect who built it was afflicted with poor eyesight or whether the earthquakes
and typhoons have twisted it out of shape, no one can say with certainty. A wide staircase
with green newels and carpeted steps leads from the tiled entrance up to the main floor between
rows of flower-pots set upon pedestals of motley-colored and fantastically decorated Chinese
porcelain. Since there are neither porters nor servants who demand invitation cards, we will
go in, O you who read this, whether friend or foe, if you are attracted by the strains of the
orchestra, the lights, or the suggestive rattling of dishes, knives, and forks, and if you
wish to see what such a gathering is like in the distant Pearl of the Orient. Gladly, and for
my own comfort, I should spare you this description of the house, were it not of great importance,
since we mortals in general are very much like tortoises: we are esteemed and classified according
to our shells; in this and still other respects the mortals of the Philippines in particular
also resemble tortoises.

If we go up the stairs, we immediately find ourselves in a spacious hallway, called there,
for some unknown reason, the caida, which tonight serves as the dining-room and at the same
time affords a place for the orchestra. In the center a large table profusely and expensively
decorated seems to beckon to the hanger-on with sweet promises, while it threatens the bashful
maiden, the simple dalaga, with two mortal hours in the company of strangers whose language
and conversation usually have a very restricted and special character.

Contrasted with these terrestrial preparations are the motley paintings on the walls representing
religious matters, such as "Purgatory," "Hell," "The Last Judgment," "The Death of the Just,"
and "The Death of the Sinner."

At the back of the room, fastened in a splendid and elegant framework, in the Renaissance style,
possibly by Arévalo, is a glass case in which are seen the figures of two old women. The inscription
on this reads: "Our Lady of Peace and Prosperous Voyages, who is worshiped in Antipolo, visiting
in the disguise of a beggar the holy and renowned Capitana Inez during her sickness." [15]
While the work reveals little taste or art, yet it possesses in compensation an extreme realism,
for to judge from the yellow and bluish tints of her face the sick woman seems to be already
a decaying corpse, and the glasses and other objects, accompaniments of long illness, are so
minutely reproduced that even their contents may be distinguished. In looking at these pictures,
which excite the appetite and inspire gay bucolic ideas, one may perhaps be led to think that
the malicious host is well acquainted with the characters of the majority of those who are
to sit at his table and that, in order to conceal his own way of thinking, he has hung from
the ceiling costly Chinese lanterns; bird-cages without birds; red, green, and blue globes
of frosted glass; faded air-plants; and dried and inflated fishes, which they call botetes.
The view is closed on the side of the river by curious wooden arches, half Chinese and half
European, affording glimpses of a terrace with arbors and bowers faintly lighted by paper lanterns
of many colors.

In the sala, among massive mirrors and gleaming chandeliers, the guests are assembled. Here,
on a raised platform, stands a grand piano of great price, which tonight has the additional
virtue of not being played upon. Here, hanging on the wall, is an oil-painting of a handsome
man in full dress, rigid, erect, straight as the tasseled cane he holds in his stiff, ring-covered
fingers--the whole seeming to say, "Ahem! See how well dressed and how dignified I am!" The
furnishings of the room are elegant and perhaps uncomfortable and unhealthful, since the master
of the house would consider not so much the comfort and health of his guests as his own ostentation,
"A terrible thing is dysentery," he would say to them, "but you are sitting in European chairs
and that is something you don't find every day."

This room is almost filled with people, the men being separated from the women as in synagogues
and Catholic churches. The women consist of a number of Filipino and Spanish maidens, who,
when they open their mouths to yawn, instantly cover them with their fans and who murmur only
a few words to each other, any conversation ventured upon dying out in monosyllables like the
sounds heard in a house at night, sounds made by the rats and lizards. Is it perhaps the different
likenesses of Our Lady hanging on the walls that force them to silence and a religious demeanor
or is it that the women here are an exception?

A cousin of Capitan Tiago, a sweet-faced old woman, who speaks Spanish quite badly, is the
only one receiving the ladies. To offer to the Spanish ladies a plate of cigars and buyos,
to extend her hand to her countrywomen to be kissed, exactly as the friars do,--this is the
sum of her courtesy, her policy. The poor old lady soon became bored, and taking advantage
of the noise of a plate breaking, rushed precipitately away, muttering, "Jesús! Just wait,
you rascals!" and failed to reappear.

The men, for their part, are making more of a stir. Some cadets in one corner are conversing
in a lively manner but in low tones, looking around now and then to point out different persons
in the room while they laugh more or less openly among themselves. In contrast, two foreigners
dressed in white are promenading silently from one end of the room to the other with their
hands crossed behind their backs, like the bored passengers on the deck of a ship. All the
interest and the greatest animation proceed from a group composed of two priests, two civilians,
and a soldier who are seated around a small table on which are seen bottles of wine and English
biscuits.

The soldier, a tall, elderly lieutenant with an austere countenance--a Duke of Alva straggling
behind in the roster of the Civil Guard--talks little, but in a harsh, curt way. One of the
priests, a youthful Dominican friar, handsome, graceful, polished as the gold-mounted eyeglasses
he wears, maintains a premature gravity. He is the curate of Binondo and has been in former
years a professor in the college of San Juan de Letran, [16] where he enjoyed the reputation
of being a consummate dialectician, so much so that in the days when the sons of Guzman [17]
still dared to match themselves in subtleties with laymen, the able disputant B. de Luna had
never been able either to catch or to confuse him, the distinctions made by Fray Sibyla leaving
his opponent in the situation of a fisherman who tries to catch eels with a lasso. The Dominican
says little, appearing to weigh his words.

Quite in contrast, the other priest, a Franciscan, talks much and gesticulates more. In spite
of the fact that his hair is beginning to turn gray, he seems to be preserving well his robust
constitution, while his regular features, his rather disquieting glance, his wide jaws and
herculean frame give him the appearance of a Roman noble in disguise and make us involuntarily
recall one of those three monks of whom Heine tells in his "Gods in Exile," who at the September
equinox in the Tyrol used to cross a lake at midnight and each time place in the hand of the
poor boatman a silver piece, cold as ice, which left him full of terror. [18] But Fray Damaso
is not so mysterious as they were. He is full of merriment, and if the tone of his voice is
rough like that of a man who has never had occasion to correct himself and who believes that
whatever he says is holy and above improvement, still his frank, merry laugh wipes out this
disagreeable impression and even obliges us to pardon his showing to the room bare feet and
hairy legs that would make the fortune of a Mendieta in the Quiapo fairs. [19]

One of the civilians is a very small man with a black beard, the only thing notable about him
being his nose, which, to judge from its size, ought not to belong to him. The other is a rubicund
youth, who seems to have arrived but recently in the country. With him the Franciscan is carrying
on a lively discussion.

"You'll see," the friar was saying, "when you've been here a few months you'll be convinced
of what I say. It's one thing to govern in Madrid and another to live in the Philippines."

"But--"

"I, for example," continued Fray Damaso, raising his voice still higher to prevent the other
from speaking, "I, for example, who can look back over twenty-three years of bananas and morisqueta,
know whereof I speak. Don't come at me with theories and fine speeches, for I know the Indian.
[20] Mark well that the moment I arrived in the country I was assigned to a toxin, small it
is true, but especially devoted to agriculture. I didn't understand Tagalog very well then,
but I was, soon confessing the women, and we understood one another and they came to like me
so well that three years later, when I was transferred to another and larger town, made vacant
by the death of the native curate, all fell to weeping, they heaped gifts upon me, they escorted
me with music--"

"But that only goes to show--"

"Wait, wait! Don't be so hasty! My successor remained a shorter time, and when he left he had
more attendance, more tears, and more music. Yet he had been more given to whipping and had
raised the fees in the parish to almost double."

"But you will allow me--"

"But that isn't all. I stayed in the town of San Diego twenty years and it has been only a
few months since I left it."

Here he showed signs of chagrin.

"Twenty years, no one can deny, are more than sufficient to get acquainted with a town. San
Diego has a population of six thousand souls and I knew every inhabitant as well as if I had
been his mother and wet-nurse. I knew in which foot this one was lame, where the shoe pinched
that one, who was courting that girl, what affairs she had had and with whom, who was the real
father of the child, and so on--for I was the confessor of every last one, and they took care
not to fail in their duty. Our host, Santiago, will tell you whether I am speaking the truth,
for he has a lot of land there and that was where we first became friends. Well then, you may
see what the Indian is: when I left I was escorted by only a few old women and some of the
tertiary brethren--and that after I had been there twenty years!"

"But I don't see what that has to do with the abolition of the tobacco monopoly," [21] ventured
the rubicund youth, taking advantage of the Franciscan's pausing to drink a glass of sherry.

Fray Damaso was so greatly surprised that he nearly let his glass fall. He remained for a moment
staring fixedly at the young man.

"What? How's that?" he was finally able to exclaim in great wonderment. "Is it possible that
you don't see it as clear as day? Don't you see, my son, that all this proves plainly that
the reforms of the ministers are irrational?"

It was now the youth's turn to look perplexed. The lieutenant wrinkled his eyebrows a little
more and the small man nodded toward Fray Damaso equivocally. The Dominican contented himself
with almost turning his back on the whole group.

"Do you really believe so?" the young man at length asked with great seriousness, as he looked
at the friar with curiosity.

"Do I believe so? As I believe the Gospel! The Indian is so indolent!"

"Ah, pardon me for interrupting you," said the young man, lowering his voice and drawing his
chair a little closer, "but you have said something that awakens all my interest. Does this
indolence actually, naturally, exist among the natives or is there some truth in what a foreign
traveler says: that with this indolence we excuse our own, as well as our backwardness and
our colonial system. He referred to other colonies whose inhabitants belong to the same race--"

"Bah, jealousy! Ask Señor Laruja, who also knows this country. Ask him if there is any equal
to the ignorance and indolence of the Indian."

"It's true," affirmed the little man, who was referred to as Señor Laruja. "In no part of the
world can you find any one more indolent than the Indian, in no part of the world."

"Nor more vicious, nor more ungrateful!"

"Nor more unmannerly!"

The rubicund youth began to glance about nervously. "Gentlemen," he whispered, "I believe that
we are in the house of an Indian. Those young ladies--"

"Bah, don't be so apprehensive! Santiago doesn't consider himself an Indian--and besides, he's
not here. And what if he were! These are the nonsensical ideas of the newcomers. Let a few
months pass and you will change your opinion, after you have attended a lot of fiestas and
bailúhan, slept on cots, and eaten your fill of tinola."

"Ah, is this thing that you call tinola a variety of lotus which makes people--er--forgetful?"

"Nothing of the kind!" exclaimed Fray Damaso with a smile. "You're getting absurd. Tinola is
a stew of chicken and squash. How long has it been since you got here?"

"Four days," responded the youth, rather offended.

"Have you come as a government employee?"

"No, sir, I've come at my own expense to study the country."

"Man, what a rare bird!" exclaimed Fray Damaso, staring at him with curiosity. "To come at
one's own expense and for such foolishness! What a wonder! When there are so many books! And
with two fingerbreadths of forehead! Many have written books as big as that! With two fingerbreadths
of forehead!"

The Dominican here brusquely broke in upon the conversation. "Did your Reverence, Fray Damaso,
say that you had been twenty years in the town of San Diego and that you had left it? Wasn't
your Reverence satisfied with the town?"

At this question, which was put in a very natural and almost negligent tone, Fray Damaso suddenly
lost all his merriment and stopped laughing. "No!" he grunted dryly, and let himself back heavily
against the back of his chair.

The Dominican went on in a still more indifferent tone. "It must be painful to leave a town
where one has been for twenty years and which he knows as well as the clothes he wears. I certainly
was sorry to leave Kamiling and that after I had been there only a few months. But my superiors
did it for the good of the Orders for my own good."

Fray Damaso, for the first time that evening, seemed to be very thoughtful. Suddenly he brought
his fist down on the arm of his chair and with a heavy breath exclaimed: "Either Religion is
a fact or it is not! That is, either the curates are free or they are not! The country is going
to ruin, it is lost!" And again he struck the arm of his chair.

Everybody in the sala turned toward the group with astonished looks. The Dominican raised his
head to stare at the Franciscan from under his glasses. The two foreigners paused a moment,
stared with an expression of mingled severity and reproof, then immediately continued their
promenade.

"He's in a bad humor because you haven't treated him with deference," murmured Señor Laruja
into the ear of the rubicund youth.

"What does your Reverence mean? What's the trouble?" inquired the Dominican and the lieutenant
at the same time, but in different tones.

"That's why so many calamities come! The ruling powers support heretics against the ministers
of God!" continued the Franciscan, raising his heavy fists.

"What do you mean?" again inquired the frowning lieutenant, half rising from his chair.

"What do I mean?" repeated Fray Damaso, raising his voice and facing the lieutenant. "I'll
tell you what I mean. I, yes I, mean to say that when a priest throws out of his cemetery the
corpse of a heretic, no one, not even the King himself, has any right to interfere and much
less to impose any punishment! But a little General--a little General Calamity--"

"Padre, his Excellency is the Vice-Regal Patron!" shouted the soldier, rising to his feet.

"Excellency! Vice-Regal Patron! What of that!" retorted the Franciscan, also rising. "In other
times he would have been dragged down a staircase as the religious orders once did with the
impious Governor Bustamente. [22] Those were indeed the days of faith."

"I warn you that I can't permit this! His Excellency represents his Majesty the King!"

"King or rook! What difference does that make? For us there is no king other than the legitimate
[23]--"

"Halt!" shouted the lieutenant in a threatening tone, as if he were commanding his soldiers.
"Either you withdraw what you have said or tomorrow I will report it to his Excellency!"

"Go ahead--right now--go on!" was the sarcastic rejoinder of Fray Damaso as he approached the
officer with clenched fists. "Do you think that because I wear the cloth, I'm afraid? Go now,
while I can lend you my carriage!"

The dispute was taking a ludicrous turn, but fortunately the Dominican intervened. "Gentlemen,"
he began in an authoritative tone and with the nasal twang that so well becomes the friars,
"you must not confuse things or seek for offenses where there are none. We must distinguish
in the words of Fray Damaso those of the man from those of the priest. The latter, as such,
per se, can never give offense, because they spring from absolute truth, while in those of
the man there is a secondary distinction to be made: those which he utters ab irato, those
which he utters ex ore, but not in corde, and those which he does utter in corde. These last
are the only ones that can really offend, and only according to whether they preexisted as
a motive in mente, or arose solely per accidens in the heat of the discussion, if there really
exist--"

"But I, by accidens and for my own part, understand his motives, Padre Sibyla," broke in the
old soldier, who saw himself about to be entangled in so many distinctions that he feared lest
he might still be held to blame. "I understand the motives about which your Reverence is going
to make distinctions. During the absence of Padre Damaso from San Diego, his coadjutor buried
the body of an extremely worthy individual--yes, sir, extremely worthy, for I had had dealings
with him many times and had been entertained in his house. What if he never went to confession,
what does that matter? Neither do I go to confession! But to say that he committed suicide
is a lie, a slander! A man such as he was, who has a son upon whom he centers his affection
and hopes, a man who has faith in God, who recognizes his duties to society, a just and honorable
man, does not commit suicide. This much I will say and will refrain from expressing the rest
of my thoughts here, so please your Reverence."

Then, turning his back on the Franciscan, he went on: "Now then, this priest on his return
to the town, after maltreating the poor coadjutor, had the corpse dug up and taken away from
the cemetery to be buried I don't know where. The people of San Diego were cowardly enough
not to protest, although it is true that few knew of the outrage. The dead man had no relatives
there and his only son was in Europe. But his Excellency learned of the affair and as he is
an upright man asked for some punishment--and Padre Damaso was transferred to a better town.
That's all there is to it. Now your Reverence can make your distinctions."

So saying, he withdrew from the group.

"I'm sorry that I inadvertently brought up so delicate a subject," said Padre Sibyla sadly.
"But, after all, if there has been a gain in the change of towns--"

"How is there to be a gain? And what of all the things that are lost in moving, the letters,
and the--and everything that is mislaid?" interrupted Fray Damaso, stammering in the vain effort
to control his anger.

Little by little the party resumed its former tranquillity. Other guests had come in, among
them a lame old Spaniard of mild and inoffensive aspect leaning on the arm of an elderly Filipina,
who was resplendent in frizzes and paint and a European gown. The group welcomed them heartily,
and Doctor De Espadaña and his señora, the Doctora Doña Victorina, took their seats among our
acquaintances. Some newspaper reporters and shopkeepers greeted one another and moved about
aimlessly without knowing just what to do.

"But can you tell me, Señor Laruja, what kind of man our host is?" inquired the rubicund youth.
"I haven't been introduced to him yet."

"They say that he has gone out. I haven't seen him either."

"There's no need of introductions here," volunteered Fray Damaso. "Santiago is made of the
right stuff."

"No, he's not the man who invented gunpowder," [24] added Laruja.

"You too, Señor Laruja," exclaimed Doña Victorina in mild reproach, as she fanned herself.
"How could the poor man invent gunpowder if, as is said, the Chinese invented it centuries ago?"

"The Chinese! Are you crazy?" cried Fray Damaso. "Out with you! A Franciscan, one of my Order,
Fray What-do-you-call-him Savalls, [25] invented it in the--ah the seventh century!"

"A Franciscan? Well, he must have been a missionary in China, that Padre Savalls," replied
the lady, who did not thus easily part from her beliefs.

"Schwartz, [26] perhaps you mean, señora," said Fray Sibyla, without looking at her.

"I don't know. Fray Damaso said a Franciscan and I was only repeating."

"Well, Savalls or Chevas, what does it matter? The difference of a letter doesn't make him
a Chinaman," replied the Franciscan in bad humor.

"And in the fourteenth century, not the seventh," added the Dominican in a tone of correction,
as if to mortify the pride of the other friar.

"Well, neither does a century more or less make him a Dominican."

"Don't get angry, your Reverence," admonished Padre Sibyla, smiling. "So much the better that
he did invent it so as to save his brethren the trouble."

"And did you say, Padre Sibyla, that it was in the fourteenth century?" asked Doña Victorina
with great interest. "Was that before or after Christ?"

Fortunately for the individual questioned, two persons entered the room.

CHAPTER II

Crisostomo Ibarra

It was not two beautiful and well-gowned young women that attracted the attention of all, even
including Fray Sibyla, nor was it his Excellency the Captain-General with his staff, that the
lieutenant should start from his abstraction and take a couple of steps forward, or that Fray
Damaso should look as if turned to stone; it was simply the original of the oil-painting leading
by the hand a young man dressed in deep mourning.

"Good evening, gentlemen! Good evening, Padre!" were the greetings of Capitan Tiago as he kissed
the hands of the priests, who forgot to bestow upon him their benediction. The Dominican had
taken off his glasses to stare at the newly arrived youth, while Fray Damaso was pale and unnaturally
wide-eyed.

"I have the honor of presenting to you Don Crisostomo Ibarra, the son of my deceased friend,"
went on Capitan Tiago. "The young gentleman has just arrived from Europe and I went to meet him."

At the mention of the name exclamations were heard. The lieutenant forgot to pay his respects
to his host and approached the young man, looking him over from head to foot. The young man
himself at that moment was exchanging the conventional greetings with all in the group, nor
did there seem to be any thing extraordinary about him except his mourning garments in the
center of that brilliantly lighted room. Yet in spite of them his remarkable stature, his features,
and his movements breathed forth an air of healthy youthfulness in which both body and mind
had equally developed. There might have been noticed in his frank, pleasant face some faint
traces of Spanish blood showing through a beautiful brown color, slightly flushed at the cheeks
as a result perhaps of his residence in cold countries.

"What!" he exclaimed with joyful surprise, "the curate of my native town! Padre Damaso, my
father's intimate friend!"

Every look in the room was directed toward the Franciscan, who made no movement.

"Pardon me, perhaps I'm mistaken," added Ibarra, embarrassed.

"You are not mistaken," the friar was at last able to articulate in a changed voice, "but your
father was never an intimate friend of mine."

Ibarra slowly withdrew his extended hand, looking greatly surprised, and turned to encounter
the gloomy gaze of the lieutenant fixed on him.

"Young man, are you the son of Don Rafael Ibarra?" he asked.

The youth bowed. Fray Damaso partly rose in his chair and stared fixedly at the lieutenant.

"Welcome back to your country! And may you be happier in it than your father was!" exclaimed
the officer in a trembling voice. "I knew him well and can say that he was one of the worthiest
and most honorable men in the Philippines."

"Sir," replied Ibarra, deeply moved, "the praise you bestow upon my father removes my doubts
about the manner of his death, of which I, his son, am yet ignorant."

The eyes of the old soldier filled with tears and turning away hastily he withdrew. The young
man thus found himself alone in the center of the room. His host having disappeared, he saw
no one who might introduce him to the young ladies, many of whom were watching him with interest.
After a few moments of hesitation he started toward them in a simple and natural manner.

"Allow me," he said, "to overstep the rules of strict etiquette. It has been seven years since
I have been in my own country and upon returning to it I cannot suppress my admiration and
refrain from paying my respects to its most precious ornaments, the ladies."

But as none of them ventured a reply, he found himself obliged to retire. He then turned toward
a group of men who, upon seeing him approach, arranged themselves in a semicircle.

"Gentlemen," he addressed them, "it is a custom in Germany, when a stranger finds himself at
a function and there is no one to introduce him to those present, that he give his name and
so introduce himself. Allow me to adopt this usage here, not to introduce foreign customs when
our own are so beautiful, but because I find myself driven to it by necessity. I have already
paid my respects to the skies and to the ladies of my native land; now I wish to greet its
citizens, my fellow-countrymen. Gentlemen, my name is Juan Crisostomo Ibarra y Magsalin."

The others gave their names, more or less obscure, and unimportant here.

"My name is A----," said one youth dryly, as he made a slight bow.

"Then I have the honor of addressing the poet whose works have done so much to keep up my enthusiasm
for my native land. It is said that you do not write any more, but I could not learn the reason."

"The reason? Because one does not seek inspiration in order to debase himself and lie. One
writer has been imprisoned for having put a very obvious truth into verse. They may have called
me a poet but they sha'n't call me a fool."

"And may I enquire what that truth was?"

"He said that the lion's son is also a lion. He came very near to being exiled for it," replied
the strange youth, moving away from the group.

A man with a smiling face, dressed in the fashion of the natives of the country, with diamond
studs in his shirt-bosom, came up at that moment almost running. He went directly to Ibarra
and grasped his hand, saying, "Señor Ibarra, I've been eager to make your acquaintance. Capitan
Tiago is a friend of mine and I knew your respected father. I am known as Capitan Tinong and
live in Tondo, where you will always be welcome. I hope that you will honor me with a visit.
Come and dine with us tomorrow." He smiled and rubbed his hands.

"Thank you," replied Ibarra, warmly, charmed with such amiability, "but tomorrow morning I
must leave for San Diego."

"How unfortunate! Then it will be on your return."

"Dinner is served!" announced a waiter from the café La Campana, and the guests began to file
out toward the table, the women, especially the Filipinas, with great hesitation.

CHAPTER III

The Dinner

    Jele, jele, bago quiere. [27]

Fray Sibyla seemed to be very content as he moved along tranquilly with the look of disdain
no longer playing about his thin, refined lips. He even condescended to speak to the lame doctor,
De Espadaña, who answered in monosyllables only, as he was somewhat of a stutterer. The Franciscan
was in a frightful humor, kicking at the chairs and even elbowing a cadet out of his way. The
lieutenant was grave while the others talked vivaciously, praising the magnificence of the
table. Doña Victorina, however, was just turning up her nose in disdain when she suddenly became
as furious as a trampled serpent--the lieutenant had stepped on the train of her gown.

"Haven't you any eyes?" she demanded.

"Yes, señora, two better than yours, but the fact is that I was admiring your frizzes," retorted
the rather ungallant soldier as he moved away from her.

As if from instinct the two friars both started toward the head of the table, perhaps from
habit, and then, as might have been expected, the same thing happened that occurs with the
competitors for a university position, who openly exalt the qualifications and superiority
of their opponents, later giving to understand that just the contrary was meant, and who murmur
and grumble when they do not receive the appointment.

"For you, Fray Damaso."

"For you, Fray Sibyla."

"An older friend of the family--confessor of the deceased lady--age, dignity, and authority--"

"Not so very old, either! On the other hand, you are the curate of the district," replied Fray
Damaso sourly, without taking his hand from the back of the chair.

"Since you command it, I obey," concluded Fray Sibyla, disposing himself to take the seat.

"I don't command it!" protested the Franciscan. "I don't command it!"

Fray Sibyla was about to seat himself without paying any more attention to these protests when
his eyes happened to encounter those of the lieutenant. According to clerical opinion in the
Philippines, the highest secular official is inferior to a friar-cook: cedant arma togae, said
Cicero in the Senate--cedant arma cottae, say the friars in the Philippines. [28]

But Fray Sibyla was a well-bred person, so he said, "Lieutenant, here we are in the world and
not in the church. The seat of honor belongs to you." To judge from the tone of his voice,
however, even in the world it really did belong to him, and the lieutenant, either to keep
out of trouble or to avoid sitting between two friars, curtly declined.

None of the claimants had given a thought to their host. Ibarra noticed him watching the scene
with a smile of satisfaction.

"How's this, Don Santiago, aren't you going to sit down with us?"

But all the seats were occupied; Lucullus was not to sup in the house of Lucullus.

"Sit still, don't get up!" said Capitan Tiago, placing his hand on the young man's shoulder.
"This fiesta is for the special purpose of giving thanks to the Virgin for your safe arrival.
Oy! Bring on the tinola! I ordered tinola as you doubtless have not tasted any for so long a time."

A large steaming tureen was brought in. The Dominican, after muttering the benedicite, to which
scarcely any one knew how to respond, began to serve the contents. But whether from carelessness
or other cause, Padre Damaso received a plate in which a bare neck and a tough wing of chicken
floated about in a large quantity of soup amid lumps of squash, while the others were eating
legs and breasts, especially Ibarra, to whose lot fell the second joints. Observing all this,
the Franciscan mashed up some pieces of squash, barely tasted the soup, dropped his spoon noisily,
and roughly pushed his plate away. The Dominican was very busy talking to the rubicund youth.

"How long have you been away from the country?" Laruja asked Ibarra.

"Almost seven years."

"Then you have probably forgotten all about it."

"Quite the contrary. Even if my country does seem to have forgotten me, I have always thought
about it."

"How do you mean that it has forgotten you?" inquired the rubicund youth.

"I mean that it has been a year since I have received any news from here, so that I find myself
a stranger who does not yet know how and when his father died."

This statement drew a sudden exclamation from the lieutenant.

"And where were you that you didn't telegraph?" asked Doña Victorina. "When we were married
we telegraphed to the Peñinsula." [29]

"Señora, for the past two years I have been in the northern part of Europe, in Germany and
Russian Poland."

Doctor De Espadaña, who until now had not ventured upon any conversation, thought this a good
opportunity to say something. "I--I knew in S-spain a P-pole from W-warsaw, c-called S-stadtnitzki,
if I r-remember c-correctly. P-perhaps you s-saw him?" he asked timidly and almost blushingly.

"It's very likely," answered Ibarra in a friendly manner, "but just at this moment I don't
recall him."

"B-but you c-couldn't have c-confused him with any one else," went on the Doctor, taking courage.
"He was r-ruddy as gold and t-talked Spanish very b-badly."

"Those are good clues, but unfortunately while there I talked Spanish only in a few consulates."

"How then did you get along?" asked the wondering Doña Victorina.

"The language of the country served my needs, madam."

"Do you also speak English?" inquired the Dominican, who had been in Hongkong, and who was
a master of pidgin-English, that adulteration of Shakespeare's tongue used by the sons of the
Celestial Empire.

"I stayed in England a year among people who talked nothing but English."

"Which country of Europe pleased you the most?" asked the rubicund youth.

"After Spain, my second fatherland, any country of free Europe."

"And you who seem to have traveled so much, tell us what do you consider the most notable thing
that you have seen?" inquired Laruja.

Ibarra appeared to reflect. "Notable--in what way?"

"For example, in regard to the life of the people--the social, political, religious life--in
general, in its essential features--as a whole."

Ibarra paused thoughtfully before replying. "Frankly, I like everything in those people, setting
aside the national pride of each one. But before visiting a country, I tried to familiarize
myself with its history, its Exodus, if I may so speak, and afterwards I found everything quite
natural. I have observed that the prosperity or misery of each people is in direct proportion
to its liberties or its prejudices and, accordingly, to the sacrifices or the selfishness of
its forefathers."

"And haven't you observed anything more than that?" broke in the Franciscan with a sneer. Since
the beginning of the dinner he had not uttered a single word, his whole attention having been
taking up, no doubt, with the food. "It wasn't worth while to squander your fortune to learn
so trifling a thing. Any schoolboy knows that."

Ibarra was placed in an embarrassing position, and the rest looked from one to the other as
if fearing a disagreeable scene. He was about to say, "The dinner is nearly over and his Reverence
is now satiated," but restrained himself and merely remarked to the others, "Gentlemen, don't
be surprised at the familiarity with which our former curate treats me. He treated me so when
I was a child, and the years seem to make no difference in his Reverence. I appreciate it,
too, because it recalls the days when his Reverence visited our home and honored my father's
table."

The Dominican glanced furtively at the Franciscan, who was trembling visibly. Ibarra continued
as he rose from the table: "You will now permit me to retire, since, as I have just arrived
and must go away tomorrow morning, there remain some important business matters for me to attend
to. The principal part of the dinner is over and I drink but little wine and seldom touch cordials.
Gentlemen, all for Spain and the Philippines!" Saying this, he drained his glass, which he
had not before touched. The old lieutenant silently followed his example.

"Don't go!" whispered Capitan Tiago. "Maria Clara will be here. Isabel has gone to get her.
The new curate of your town, who is a saint, is also coming."

"I'll call tomorrow before starting. I've a very important visit to make now." With this he
went away.

Meanwhile the Franciscan had recovered himself. "Do you see?" he said to the rubicund youth,
at the same time flourishing his dessert spoon. "That comes from pride. They can't stand to
have the curate correct them. They even think that they are respectable persons. It's the evil
result of sending young men to Europe. The government ought to prohibit it."

"And how about the lieutenant?" Doña Victorina chimed in upon the Franciscan, "he didn't get
the frown off his face the whole evening. He did well to leave us so old and still only a lieutenant!"
The lady could not forget the allusion to her frizzes and the trampled ruffles of her gown.

That night the rubicund youth wrote down, among other things, the following title for a chapter
in his Colonial Studies: "Concerning the manner in which the neck and wing of a chicken in
a friar's plate of soup may disturb the merriment of a feast." Among his notes there appeared
these observations: "In the Philippines the most unnecessary person at a dinner is he who gives
it, for they are quite capable of beginning by throwing the host into the street and then everything
will go on smoothly. Under present conditions it would perhaps be a good thing not to allow
the Filipinos to leave the country, and even not to teach them to read."

CHAPTER IV

Heretic and Filibuster

Ibarra stood undecided for a moment. The night breeze, which during those months blows cool
enough in Manila, seemed to drive from his forehead the light cloud that had darkened it. He
took off his hat and drew a deep breath. Carriages flashed by, public rigs moved along at a
sleepy pace, pedestrians of many nationalities were passing. He walked along at that irregular
pace which indicates thoughtful abstraction or freedom from care, directing his steps toward
Binondo Plaza and looking about him as if to recall the place. There were the same streets
and the identical houses with their white and blue walls, whitewashed, or frescoed in bad imitation
of granite; the church continued to show its illuminated clock face; there were the same Chinese
shops with their soiled curtains and their iron gratings, in one of which was a bar that he,
in imitation of the street urchins of Manila, had twisted one night; it was still unstraightened.
"How slowly everything moves," he murmured as he turned into Calle Sacristia. The ice-cream
venders were repeating the same shrill cry, "Sorbeteee!" while the smoky lamps still lighted
the identical Chinese stands and those of the old women who sold candy and fruit.

"Wonderful!" he exclaimed. "There's the same Chinese who was here seven years ago, and that
old woman--the very same! It might be said that tonight I've dreamed of a seven years' journey
in Europe. Good heavens, that pavement is still in the same unrepaired condition as when I
left!" True it was that the stones of the sidewalk on the corner of San Jacinto and Sacristia
were still loose.

While he was meditating upon this marvel of the city's stability in a country where everything
is so unstable, a hand was placed lightly on his shoulder. He raised his head to see the old
lieutenant gazing at him with something like a smile in place of the hard expression and the
frown which usually characterized him.

"Young man, be careful! Learn from your father!" was the abrupt greeting of the old soldier.

"Pardon me, but you seem to have thought a great deal of my father. Can you tell me how he
died?" asked Ibarra, staring at him.

"What! Don't you know about it?" asked the officer.

"I asked Don Santiago about it, but he wouldn't promise to tell me until tomorrow. Perhaps
you know?"

"I should say I do, as does everybody else. He died in prison!"

The young man stepped backward a pace and gazed searchingly at the lieutenant. "In prison?
Who died in prison?"

"Your father, man, since he was in confinement," was the somewhat surprised answer.

"My father--in prison--confined in a prison? What are you talking about? Do you know who my
father was? Are you--?" demanded the young man, seizing the officer's arm.

"I rather think that I'm not mistaken. He was Don Rafael Ibarra."

"Yes, Don Rafael Ibarra," echoed the youth weakly.

"Well, I thought you knew about it," muttered the soldier in a tone of compassion as he saw
what was passing in Ibarra's mind. "I supposed that you--but be brave! Here one cannot be honest
and keep out of jail."

"I must believe that you are not joking with me," replied Ibarra in a weak voice, after a few
moments' silence. "Can you tell me why he was in prison?"

The old man seemed to be perplexed. "It's strange to me that your family affairs were not made
known to you."

"His last letter, a year ago, said that I should not be uneasy if he did not write, as he was
very busy. He charged me to continue my studies and--sent me his blessing."

"Then he wrote that letter to you just before he died. It will soon be a year since we buried him."

"But why was my father a prisoner?"

"For a very honorable reason. But come with me to the barracks and I'll tell you as we go along.
Take my arm."

They moved along for some time in silence. The elder seemed to be in deep thought and to be
seeking inspiration from his goatee, which he stroked continually.

"As you well know," he began, "your father was the richest man in the province, and while many
loved and respected him, there were also some who envied and hated him. We Spaniards who come
to the Philippines are unfortunately not all we ought to be. I say this as much on account
of one of your ancestors as on account of your father's enemies. The continual changes, the
corruption in the higher circles, the favoritism, the low cost and the shortness of the journey,
are to blame for it all. The worst characters of the Peninsula come here, and even if a good
man does come, the country soon ruins him. So it was that your father had a number of enemies
among the curates and other Spaniards."

Here he hesitated for a while. "Some months after your departure the troubles with Padre Damaso
began, but I am unable to explain the real cause of them. Fray Damaso accused him of not coming
to confession, although he had not done so formerly and they had nevertheless been good friends,
as you may still remember. Moreover, Don Rafael was a very upright man, more so than many of
those who regularly attend confession and than the confessors themselves. He had framed for
himself a rigid morality and often said to me, when he talked of these troubles, 'Señor Guevara,
do you believe that God will pardon any crime, a murder for instance, solely by a man's telling
it to a priest--a man after all and one whose duty it is to keep quiet about it--by his fearing
that he will roast in hell as a penance--by being cowardly and certainly shameless into the
bargain? I have another conception of God,' he used to say, 'for in my opinion one evil does
not correct another, nor is a crime to be expiated by vain lamentings or by giving alms to
the Church. Take this example: if I have killed the father of a family, if I have made of a
woman a sorrowing widow and destitute orphans of some happy children, have I satisfied eternal
Justice by letting myself be hanged, or by entrusting my secret to one who is obliged to guard
it for me, or by giving alms to priests who are least in need of them, or by buying indulgences
and lamenting night and day? What of the widow and the orphans? My conscience tells me that
I should try to take the place of him whom I killed, that I should dedicate my whole life to
the welfare of the family whose misfortunes I caused. But even so, who can replace the love
of a husband and a father?' Thus your father reasoned and by this strict standard of conduct
regulated all his actions, so that it can be said that he never injured anybody. On the contrary,
he endeavored by his good deeds to wipe out some injustices which he said your ancestors had
committed. But to get back to his troubles with the curate--these took on a serious aspect.
Padre Damaso denounced him from the pulpit, and that he did not expressly name him was a miracle,
since anything might have been expected of such a character. I foresaw that sooner or later
the affair would have serious results."

Again the old lieutenant paused. "There happened to be wandering about the province an ex-artilleryman
who has been discharged from the army on account of his stupidity and ignorance. As the man
had to live and he was not permitted to engage in manual labor, which would injure our prestige,
he somehow or other obtained a position as collector of the tax on vehicles. The poor devil
had no education at all, a fact of which the natives soon became aware, as it was a marvel
for them to see a Spaniard who didn't know how to read and write. Every one ridiculed him and
the payment of the tax was the occasion of broad smiles. He knew that he was an object of ridicule
and this tended to sour his disposition even more, rough and bad as it had formerly been. They
would purposely hand him the papers upside down to see his efforts to read them, and wherever
he found a blank space he would scribble a lot of pothooks which rather fitly passed for his
signature. The natives mocked while they paid him. He swallowed his pride and made the collections,
but was in such a state of mind that he had no respect for any one. He even came to have some
hard words with your father.

"One day it happened that he was in a shop turning a document over and over in the effort to
get it straight when a schoolboy began to make signs to his companions and to point laughingly
at the collector with his finger. The fellow heard the laughter and saw the joke reflected
in the solemn faces of the bystanders. He lost his patience and, turning quickly, started to
chase the boys, who ran away shouting ba, be, bi, bo, bu. [30] Blind with rage and unable to
catch them, he threw his cane and struck one of the boys on the head, knocking him down. He
ran up and began to kick the fallen boy, and none of those who had been laughing had the courage
to interfere. Unfortunately, your father happened to come along just at that time. He ran forward
indignantly, caught the collector by the arm, and reprimanded him severely. The artilleryman,
who was no doubt beside himself with rage, raised his hand, but your father was too quick for
him, and with the strength of a descendant of the Basques--some say that he struck him, others
that he merely pushed him, but at any rate the man staggered and fell a little way off, striking
his head against a stone. Don Rafael quietly picked the wounded boy up and carried him to the
town hall. The artilleryman bled freely from the mouth and died a few moments later without
recovering consciousness.

"As was to be expected, the authorities intervened and arrested your father. All his hidden
enemies at once rose up and false accusations came from all sides. He was accused of being
a heretic and a filibuster. To be a heretic is a great danger anywhere, but especially so at
that time when the province was governed by an alcalde who made a great show of his piety,
who with his servants used to recite his rosary in the church in a loud voice, perhaps that
all might hear and pray with him. But to be a filibuster is worse than to be a heretic and
to kill three or four tax-collectors who know how to read, write, and attend to business. Every
one abandoned him, and his books and papers were seized. He was accused of subscribing to El
Correo de Ultramar, and to newspapers from Madrid, of having sent you to Germany, of having
in his possession letters and a photograph of a priest who had been legally executed, and I
don't know what not. Everything served as an accusation, even the fact that he, a descendant
of Peninsulars, wore a camisa. Had it been any one but your father, it is likely that he would
soon have been set free, as there was a physician who ascribed the death of the unfortunate
collector to a hemorrhage. But his wealth, his confidence in the law, and his hatred of everything
that was not legal and just, wrought his undoing. In spite of my repugnance to asking for mercy
from any one, I applied personally to the Captain-General--the predecessor of our present one--and
urged upon him that there could not be anything of the filibuster about a man who took up with
all the Spaniards, even the poor emigrants, and gave them food and shelter, and in whose veins
yet flowed the generous blood of Spain. It was in vain that I pledged my life and swore by
my poverty and my military honor. I succeeded only in being coldly listened to and roughly
sent away with the epithet of chiflado." [31]

The old man paused to take a deep breath, and after noticing the silence of his companion,
who was listening with averted face, continued: "At your father's request I prepared the defense
in the case. I went first to the celebrated Filipino lawyer, young A----, but he refused to
take the case. 'I should lose it,' he told me, 'and my defending him would furnish the motive
for another charge against him and perhaps one against me. Go to Señor M----, who is a forceful
and fluent speaker and a Peninsular of great influence.' I did so, and the noted lawyer took
charge of the case, and conducted it with mastery and brilliance. But your father's enemies
were numerous, some of them hidden and unknown. False witnesses abounded, and their calumnies,
which under other circumstances would have melted away before a sarcastic phrase from the defense,
here assumed shape and substance. If the lawyer succeeded in destroying the force of their
testimony by making them contradict each other and even perjure themselves, new charges were
at once preferred. They accused him of having illegally taken possession of a great deal of
land and demanded damages. They said that he maintained relations with the tulisanes in order
that his crops and animals might not be molested by them. At last the case became so confused
that at the end of a year no one understood it. The alcalde had to leave and there came in
his place one who had the reputation of being honest, but unfortunately he stayed only a few
months, and his successor was too fond of good horses.

"The sufferings, the worries, the hard life in the prison, or the pain of seeing so much ingratitude,
broke your father's iron constitution and he fell ill with that malady which only the tomb
can cure. When the case was almost finished and he was about to be acquitted of the charge
of being an enemy of the fatherland and of being the murderer of the tax-collector, he died
in the prison with no one at his side. I arrived just in time to see him breathe his last."

The old lieutenant became silent, but still Ibarra said nothing. They had arrived meanwhile
at the door of the barracks, so the soldier stopped and said, as he grasped the youth's hand,
"Young man, for details ask Capitan Tiago. Now, good night, as I must return to duty and see
that all's well."

Silently, but with great feeling, Ibarra shook the lieutenant's bony hand and followed him
with his eyes until he disappeared. Then he turned slowly and signaled to a passing carriage.
"To Lala's Hotel," was the direction he gave in a scarcely audible voice.

"This fellow must have just got out of jail," thought the cochero as he whipped up his horses.

CHAPTER V

A Star in a Dark Night

Ibarra went to his room, which overlooked the river, and dropping into a chair gazed out into
the vast expanse of the heavens spread before him through the open window. The house on the
opposite bank was profusely lighted, and gay strains of music, largely from stringed instruments,
were borne across the river even to his room.

If the young man had been less preoccupied, if he had had more curiosity and had cared to see
with his opera glasses what was going on in that atmosphere of light, he would have been charmed
with one of those magical and fantastic spectacles, the like of which is sometimes seen in
the great theaters of Europe. To the subdued strains of the orchestra there seems to appear
in the midst of a shower of light, a cascade of gold and diamonds in an Oriental setting, a
deity wrapped in misty gauze, a sylph enveloped in a luminous halo, who moves forward apparently
without touching the floor. In her presence the flowers bloom, the dance awakens, the music
bursts forth, and troops of devils, nymphs, satyrs, demons, angels, shepherds and shepherdesses,
dance, shake their tambourines, and whirl about in rhythmic evolutions, each one placing some
tribute at the feet of the goddess. Ibarra would have seen a beautiful and graceful maiden,
clothed in the picturesque garments of the daughters of the Philippines, standing in the center
Of a semicircle made up of every class of people, Chinese, Spaniards, Filipinos, soldiers,
curates, old men and young, all gesticulating and moving about in a lively manner. Padre Damaso
stood at the side of the beauty, smiling like one especially blessed. Fray Sibyla--yes, Fray
Sibyla himself--was talking to her. Doña Victorina was arranging in the magnificent hair of
the maiden a string of pearls and diamonds which threw out all the beautiful tints of the rainbow.
She was white, perhaps too much so, and whenever she raised her downcast eyes there shone forth
a spotless soul. When she smiled so as to show her small white teeth the beholder realized
that the rose is only a flower and ivory but the elephant's tusk. From out the filmy piña draperies
around her white and shapely neck there blinked, as the Tagalogs say, the bright eyes of a
collar of diamonds. One man only in all the crowd seemed insensible to her radiant influence--a
young Franciscan, thin, wasted, and pale, who watched her from a distance, motionless as a
statue and scarcely breathing.

But Ibarra saw nothing of all this--his eyes were fixed on other things. A small space was
enclosed by four bare and grimy walls, in one of which was an iron grating. On the filthy and
loathsome floor was a mat upon which an old man lay alone in the throes of death, an old man
breathing with difficulty and turning his head from side to side as amid his tears he uttered
a name. The old man was alone, but from time to time a groan or the rattle of a chain was heard
on the other side of the wall. Far away there was a merry feast, almost an orgy; a youth was
laughing, shouting, and pouring wine upon the flowers amid the applause and drunken laughter
of his companions. The old man had the features of his father, the youth was himself, and the
name that the old man uttered with tears was his own name! This was what the wretched young
man saw before him. The lights in the house opposite were extinguished, the music and the noises
ceased, but Ibarra still heard the anguished cry of his father calling upon his son in the
hour of his death.

Silence had now blown its hollow breath over the city, and all things seemed to sleep in the
embrace of nothingness. The cock-crow alternated with the strokes of the clocks in the church
towers and the mournful cries of the weary sentinels. A waning moon began to appear, and everything
seemed to be at rest; even Ibarra himself, worn out by his sad thoughts or by his journey,
now slept.

Only the young Franciscan whom we saw not so long ago standing motionless and silent in the
midst of the gaiety of the ballroom slept not, but kept vigil. In his cell, with his elbow
upon the window sill and his pale, worn cheek resting on the palm of his hand, he was gazing
silently into the distance where a bright star glittered in the dark sky. The star paled and
disappeared, the dim light of the waning moon faded, but the friar did not move from his place--he
was gazing out over the field of Bagumbayan and the sleeping sea at the far horizon wrapped
in the morning mist.

CHAPTER VI

Capitan Tiago

											Thy will be done on earth.

While our characters are deep in slumber or busy with their breakfasts, let us turn our attention
to Capitan Tiago. We have never had the honor of being his guest, so it is neither our right
nor our duty to pass him by slightingly, even under the stress of important events.

Low in stature, with a clear complexion, a corpulent figure and a full face, thanks to the
liberal supply of fat which according to his admirers was the gift of Heaven and which his
enemies averred was the blood of the poor, Capitan Tiago appeared to be younger than he really
was; he might have been thought between thirty and thirty-five years of age. At the time of
our story his countenance always wore a sanctified look; his little round head, covered with
ebony-black hair cut long in front and short behind, was reputed to contain many things of
weight; his eyes, small but with no Chinese slant, never varied in expression; his nose was
slender and not at all inclined to flatness; and if his mouth had not been disfigured by the
immoderate use of tobacco and buyo, which, when chewed and gathered in one cheek, marred the
symmetry of his features, we would say that he might properly have considered himself a handsome
man and have passed for such. Yet in spite of this bad habit he kept marvelously white both
his natural teeth and also the two which the dentist furnished him at twelve pesos each.

He was considered one of the richest landlords in Binondo and a planter of some importance
by reason of his estates in Pampanga and Laguna, principally in the town of San Diego, the
income from which increased with each year. San Diego, on account of its agreeable baths, its
famous cockpit, and his cherished memories of the place, was his favorite town, so that he
spent at least two months of the year there. His holdings of real estate in the city were large,
and it is superfluous to state that the opium monopoly controlled by him and a Chinese brought
in large profits. They also had the lucrative contract of feeding the prisoners in Bilibid
and furnished zacate to many of the stateliest establishments in Manila u through the medium
of contracts, of course. Standing well with all the authorities, clever, cunning, and even
bold in speculating upon the wants of others, he was the only formidable rival of a certain
Perez in the matter of the farming-out of revenues and the sale of offices and appointments,
which the Philippine government always confides to private persons. Thus, at the time of the
events here narrated, Capitan Tiago was a happy man in so far as it is possible for a narrow-brained
individual to be happy in such a land: he was rich, and at peace with God, the government, and men.

That he was at peace with God was beyond doubt,--almost like religion itself. There is no need
to be on bad terms with the good God when one is prosperous on earth, when one has never had
any direct dealings with Him and has never lent Him any money. Capitan Tiago himself had never
offered any prayers to Him, even in his greatest difficulties, for he was rich and his gold
prayed for him. For masses and supplications high and powerful priests had been created; for
novenas and rosaries God in His infinite bounty had created the poor for the service of the
rich--the poor who for a peso could be secured to recite sixteen mysteries and to read all
the sacred books, even the Hebrew Bible, for a little extra. If at any time in the midst of
pressing difficulties he needed celestial aid and had not at hand even a red Chinese taper,
he would call upon his most adored saints, promising them many things for the purpose of putting
them under obligation to him and ultimately convincing them of the righteousness of his desires.

The saint to whom he promised the most, and whose promises he was the most faithful in fulfilling,
was the Virgin of Antipolo, Our Lady of Peace and Prosperous Voyages. [32] With many of the
lesser saints he was not very punctual or even decent; and sometimes, after having his petitions
granted, he thought no more about them, though of course after such treatment he did not bother
them again, when occasion arose. Capitan Tiago knew that the calendar was full of idle saints
who perhaps had nothing wherewith to occupy their time up there in heaven. Furthermore, to
the Virgin of Antipolo he ascribed greater power and efficiency than to all the other Virgins
combined, whether they carried silver canes, naked or richly clothed images of the Christ Child,
scapularies, rosaries, or girdles. Perhaps this reverence was owing to the fact that she was
a very strict Lady, watchful of her name, and, according to the senior sacristan of Antipolo,
an enemy of photography. When she was angered she turned black as ebony, while the other Virgins
were softer of heart and more indulgent. It is a well-known fact that some minds love an absolute
monarch rather than a constitutional one, as witness Louis XIV and Louis XVI, Philip II and
Amadeo I. This fact perhaps explains why infidel Chinese and even Spaniards may be seen kneeling
in the famous sanctuary; what is not explained is why the priests run away with the money of
the terrible Image, go to America, and get married there.

In the sala of Capitan Tiago's house, that door, hidden by a silk curtain leads to a small
chapel or oratory such as must be lacking in no Filipino home. There were placed his household
gods--and we say "gods" because he was inclined to polytheism rather than to monotheism, which
he had never come to understand. There could be seen images of the Holy Family with busts and
extremities of ivory, glass eyes, long eyelashes, and curly blond hair--masterpieces of Santa
Cruz sculpture. Paintings in oil by artists of Paco and Ermita [33] represented martyrdoms
of saints and miracles of the Virgin; St. Lucy gazing at the sky and carrying in a plate an
extra pair of eyes with lashes and eyebrows, such as are seen painted in the triangle of the
Trinity or on Egyptian tombs; St. Pascual Bailon; St. Anthony of Padua in a guingón habit looking
with tears upon a Christ Child dressed as a Captain-General with the three-cornered hat, sword,
and boots, as in the children's ball at Madrid that character is represented--which signified
for Capitan Tiago that while God might include in His omnipotence the power of a Captain-General
of the Philippines, the Franciscans would nevertheless play with Him as with a doll. There,
might also be seen a St. Anthony the Abbot with a hog by his side, a hog that for the worthy
Capitan was as miraculous as the saint himself, for which reason he never dared to refer to
it as the hog, but as the creature of holy St. Anthony; a St. Francis of Assisi in a coffee-colored
robe and with seven wings, placed over a St. Vincent who had only two but in compensation carried
a trumpet; a St. Peter the Martyr with his head split open by the talibon of an evil-doer and
held fast by a kneeling infidel, side by side with another St. Peter cutting off the ear of
a Moro, Malchus [34] no doubt, who was gnawing his lips and writhing with pain, while a fighting-cock
on a doric column crowed and flapped his wings--from all of which Capitan Tiago deduced that
in order to be a saint it was just as well to smite as to be smitten.

Who could enumerate that army of images and recount the virtues and perfections that were treasured
there! A whole chapter would hardly suffice. Yet we must not pass over in silence a beautiful
St. Michael of painted and gilded wood almost four feet high. The Archangel is biting his lower
lip and with flashing eyes, frowning forehead, and rosy cheeks is grasping a Greek shield and
brandishing in his right hand a Sulu kris, ready, as would appear from his attitude and expression,
to smite a worshiper or any one else who might approach, rather than the horned and tailed
devil that had his teeth set in his girlish leg.

Capitan Tiago never went near this image from fear of a miracle. Had not other images, even
those more rudely carved ones that issue from the carpenter shops of Paete, [35] many times
come to life for the confusion and punishment of incredulous sinners? It is a well-known fact
that a certain image of Christ in Spain, when invoked as a witness of promises of love, had
assented with a movement of the head in the presence of the judge, and that another such image
had reached out its right arm to embrace St. Lutgarda. And furthermore, had he not himself
read a booklet recently published about a mimic sermon preached by an image of St. Dominic
in Soriano? True, the saint had not said a single word, but from his movements it was inferred,
at any rate the author of the booklet inferred, that he was announcing the end of the world.
[36] Was it not reported, too, that the Virgin of Luta in the town of Lipa had one cheek swollen
larger than the other and that there was mud on the borders of her gown? Does not this prove
mathematically that the holy images also walk about without holding up their skirts and that
they even suffer from the toothache, perhaps for our sake? Had he not seen with his own eyes,
during the regular Good-Friday sermon, all the images of Christ move and bow their heads thrice
in unison, thereby calling forth wails and cries from the women and other sensitive souls destined
for Heaven? More? We ourselves have seen the preacher show to the congregation at the moment
of the descent from the cross a handkerchief stained with blood, and were ourselves on the
point of weeping piously, when, to the sorrow of our soul, a sacristan assured us that it was
all a joke, that the blood was that of a chicken which had been roasted and eaten on the spot
in spite of the fact that it was Good Friday--and the sacristan was fat! So Capitan Tiago,
even though he was a prudent and pious individual, took care not to approach the kris of St. Michael.
"Let's take no chances," he would say to himself, "I know that he's an archangel, but I don't
trust him, no, I don't trust him."

Not a year passed without his joining with an orchestra in the pilgrimage to the wealthy shrine
of Antipolo. He paid for two thanksgiving masses of the many that make up the three novenas,
and also for the days when there are no novenas, and washed himself afterwards in the famous
bátis, or pool, where the sacred Image herself had bathed. Her votaries can even yet discern
the tracks of her feet and the traces of her locks in the hard rock, where she dried them,
resembling exactly those made by any woman who uses coconut-oil, and just as if her hair had
been steel or diamonds and she had weighed a thousand tons. We should like to see the terrible
Image once shake her sacred hair in the eyes of those credulous persons and put her foot upon
their tongues or their heads. There at the very edge of the pool Capitan Tiago made it his
duty to eat roast pig, sinigang of dalag with alibambang leaves, and other more or less appetizing
dishes. The two masses would cost him over four hundred pesos, but it was cheap, after all,
if one considered the glory that the Mother of the Lord would acquire from the pin-wheels,
rockets, bombs, and mortars, and also the increased profits which, thanks to these masses,
would come to one during the year.

But Antipolo was not the only theater of his ostentatious devotion. In Binondo, in Pampanga,
and in the town of San Diego, when he was about to put up a fighting-cock with large wagers,
he would send gold moneys to the curate for propitiatory masses and, just as the Romans consulted
the augurs before a battle, giving food to the sacred fowls, so Capitan Tiago would also consult
his augurs, with the modifications befitting the times and the new truths, tie would watch
closely the flame of the tapers, the smoke from the incense, the voice of the priest, and from
it all attempt to forecast his luck. It was an admitted fact that he lost very few wagers,
and in those cases it was due to the unlucky circumstance that the officiating priest was hoarse,
or that the altar-candles were few or contained too much tallow, or that a bad piece of money
had slipped in with the rest. The warden of the Brotherhood would then assure him that such
reverses were tests to which he was subjected by Heaven to receive assurance of his fidelity
and devotion. So, beloved by the priests, respected by the sacristans, humored by the Chinese
chandlers and the dealers in fireworks, he was a man happy in the religion of this world, and
persons of discernment and great piety even claimed for him great influence in the celestial court.

That he was at peace with the government cannot be doubted, however difficult an achievement
it may seem. Incapable of any new idea and satisfied with his modus vivendi, he was ever ready
to gratify the desires of the last official of the fifth class in every one of the offices,
to make presents of hams, capons, turkeys, and Chinese fruits at all seasons of the year. If
he heard any one speak ill of the natives, he, who did not consider himself as such, would
join in the chorus and speak worse of them; if any one aspersed the Chinese or Spanish mestizos,
he would do the same, perhaps because he considered himself become a full-blooded Iberian.
He was ever first to talk in favor of any new imposition of taxes, or special assessment, especially
when he smelled a contract or a farming assignment behind it. He always had an orchestra ready
for congratulating and serenading the governors, judges, and other officials on their name-days
and birthdays, at the birth or death of a relative, and in fact at every variation from the
usual monotony. For such occasions he would secure laudatory poems and hymns in which were
celebrated "the kind and loving governor," "the brave and courageous judge for whom there awaits
in heaven the palm of the just," with many other things of the same kind.

He was the president of the rich guild of mestizos in spite of the protests of many of them,
who did not regard him as one of themselves. In the two years that he held this office he wore
out ten frock coats, an equal number of high hats, and half a dozen canes. The frock coat and
the high hat were in evidence at the Ayuntamiento, in the governor-general's palace, and at
military headquarters; the high hat and the frock coat might have been noticed in the cockpit,
in the market, in the processions, in the Chinese shops, and under the hat and within the coat
might have been seen the perspiring Capitan Tiago, waving his tasseled cane, directing, arranging,
and throwing everything into disorder with marvelous activity and a gravity even more marvelous.

So the authorities saw in him a safe man, gifted with the best of dispositions, peaceful, tractable,
and obsequious, who read no books or newspapers from Spain, although he spoke Spanish well.
Indeed, they rather looked upon him with the feeling with which a poor student contemplates
the worn-out heel of his old shoe, twisted by his manner of walking. In his case there was
truth in both the Christian and profane proverbs beati pauperes spiritu and beati possidentes,
[37] and there might well be applied to him that translation, according to some people incorrect,
from the Greek, "Glory to God in the highest and peace to men of good-will on earth!" even
though we shall see further along that it is not sufficient for men to have good-will in order
to live in peace.

The irreverent considered him a fool, the poor regarded him as a heartless and cruel exploiter
of misery and want, and his inferiors saw in him a despot and a tyrant. As to the women, ah,
the women! Accusing rumors buzzed through the wretched nipa huts, and it was said that wails
and sobs might be heard mingled with the weak cries of an infant. More than one young woman
was pointed out by her neighbors with the finger of scorn: she had a downcast glance and a
faded cheek. But such things never robbed him of sleep nor did any maiden disturb his peace.
It was an old woman who made him suffer, an old woman who was his rival in piety and who had
gained from many curates such enthusiastic praises and eulogies as he in his best days had
never received.

Between Capitan Tiago and this widow, who had inherited from brothers and cousins, there existed
a holy rivalry which redounded to the benefit of the Church as the competition among the Pampanga
steamers then redounded to the benefit of the public. Did Capitan Tiago present to some Virgin
a silver wand ornamented with emeralds and topazes? At once Doña Patrocinio had ordered another
of gold set with diamonds! If at the time of the Naval procession [38] Capitan Tiago erected
an arch with two façades, covered with ruffled cloth and decorated with mirrors, glass globes,
and chandeliers, then Doña Patrocinio would have another with four facades, six feet higher,
and more gorgeous hangings. Then he would fall back on his reserves, his strong point, his
specialty--masses with bombs and fireworks; whereat Doña Patrocinia could only gnaw at her
lips with her toothless gums, because, being exceedingly nervous, she could not endure the
chiming of the bells and still less the explosions of the bombs. While he smiled in triumph,
she would plan her revenge and pay the money of others to secure the best orators of the five
Orders in Manila, the most famous preachers of the Cathedral, and even the Paulists, [39] to
preach on the holy days upon profound theological subjects to the sinners who understood only
the vernacular of the mariners. The partizans of Capitan Tiago would observe that she slept
during the sermon; but her adherents would answer that the sermon was paid for in advance,
and by her, and that in any affair payment was the prime requisite. At length, she had driven
him from the field completely by presenting to the church three andas of gilded silver, each
one of which cost her over three thousand pesos. Capitan Tiago hoped that the old woman would
breathe her last almost any day, or that she would lose five or six of her lawsuits, so that
he might be alone in serving God; but unfortunately the best lawyers of the Real Audiencia
looked after her interests, and as to her health, there was no part of her that could be attacked
by sickness; she seemed to be a steel wire, no doubt for the edification of souls, and she
hung on in this vale of tears with the tenacity of a boil on the skin. Her adherents were secure
in the belief that she would be canonized at her death and that Capitan Tiago himself would
have to worship her at the altars--all of which he agreed to and cheerfully promised, provided
only that she die soon.

Such was Capitan Tiago in the days of which we write. As for the past, he was the only son
of a sugar-planter of Malabon, wealthy enough, but so miserly that he would not spend a cent
to educate his son, for which reason the little Santiago had been the servant of a good Dominican,
a worthy man who had tried to train him in all of good that he knew and could teach. When he
had reached the happy stage of being known among his acquaintances as a logician, that is,
when he began to study logic, the death of his protector, soon followed by that of his father,
put an end to his studies and he had to turn his attention to business affairs. He married
a pretty young woman of Santa Cruz, who gave him social position and helped him to make his
fortune. Doña Pia Alba was not satisfied with buying and selling sugar, indigo, and coffee,
but wished to plant and reap, so the newly-married couple bought land in San Diego. From this
time dated their friendship with Padre Damoso and with Don Rafael Ibarra, the richest capitalist
of the town.

The lack of an heir in the first six years of their wedded life made of that eagerness to accumulate
riches almost a censurable ambition. Doña Pia was comely, strong, and healthy, yet it was in
vain that she offered novenas and at the advice of the devout women of San Diego made a pilgrimage
to the Virgin of Kaysaysay [40] in Taal, distributed alms to the poor, and danced at midday
in May in the procession of the Virgin of Turumba [41] in Pakil. But it was all with no result
until Fray Damaso advised her to go to Obando to dance in the fiesta of St. Pascual Bailon
and ask him for a son. Now it is well known that there is in Obando a trinity which grants
sons or daughters according to request--Our Lady of Salambaw, St. Clara, and St. Pascual. Thanks
to this wise advice, Doña Pia soon recognized the signs of approaching motherhood. But alas!
like the fisherman of whom Shakespeare tells in Macbeth, who ceased to sing when he had found
a treasure, she at once lost all her mirthfulness, fell into melancholy, and was never seen
to smile again. "Capriciousness, natural in her condition," commented all, even Capitan Tiago.
A puerperal fever put an end to her hidden grief, and she died, leaving behind a beautiful
girl baby for whom Fray Damaso himself stood sponsor. As St. Pascual had not granted the son
that was asked, they gave the child the name of Maria Clara, in honor of the Virgin of Salambaw
and St. Clara, punishing the worthy St. Pascual with silence.

The little girl grew up under the care of her aunt Isabel, that good old lady of monkish urbanity
whom we met at the beginning of the story. For the most part, her early life was spent in San
Diego, on account of its healthful climate, and there Padre Damaso was devoted to her.

Maria Clara had not the small eyes of her father; like her mother, she had eyes large, black,
long-lashed, merry and smiling when she was playing but sad, deep, and pensive in moments of
repose. As a child her hair was curly and almost blond, her straight nose was neither too pointed
nor too flat, while her mouth with the merry dimples at the corners recalled the small and
pleasing one of her mother, her skin had the fineness of an onion-cover and was white as cotton,
according to her perplexed relatives, who found the traces of Capitan Tiago's paternity in
her small and shapely ears. Aunt Isabel ascribed her half-European features to the longings
of Doña Pia, whom she remembered to have seen many times weeping before the image of St. Anthony.
Another cousin was of the same opinion, differing only in the choice of the smut, as for her
it was either the Virgin herself or St. Michael. A famous philosopher, who was the cousin of
Capitan Tinong and who had memorized the "Amat," [42] sought for the true explanation in planetary
influences.

The idol of all, Maria Clara grew up amidst smiles and love. The very friars showered her with
attentions when she appeared in the processions dressed in white, her abundant hair interwoven
with tuberoses and sampaguitas, with two diminutive wings of silver and gold fastened on the
back of her gown, and carrying in her hands a pair of white doves tied with blue ribbons. Afterwards,
she would be so merry and talk so sweetly in her childish simplicity that the enraptured Capitan
Tiago could do nothing but bless the saints of Obando and advise every one to purchase beautiful
works of sculpture.

In southern countries the girl of thirteen or fourteen years changes into a woman as the bud
of the night becomes a flower in the morning. At this period of change, so full of mystery
and romance, Maria Clara was placed, by the advice of the curate of Binondo, in the nunnery
of St. Catherine [43] in order to receive strict religious training from the Sisters. With
tears she took leave of Padre Damaso and of the only lad who had been a friend of her childhood,
Crisostomo Ibarra, who himself shortly afterward went away to Europe. There in that convent,
which communicates with the world through double bars, even under the watchful eyes of the
nuns, she spent seven years.

Each having his own particular ends in view and knowing the mutual inclinations of the two
young persons, Don Rafael and Capitan Tiago agreed upon the marriage of their children and
the formation of a business partnership. This agreement, which was concluded some years after
the younger Ibarra's departure, was celebrated with equal joy by two hearts in widely separated
parts of the world and under very different circumstances.

CHAPTER VII

An Idyl on an Azotea

							The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's.

That morning Aunt Isabel and Maria Clara went early to mass, the latter elegantly dressed and
wearing a rosary of blue beads, which partly served as a bracelet for her, and the former with
her spectacles in order to read her Anchor of Salvation during the holy communion. Scarcely
had the priest disappeared from the altar when the maiden expressed a desire for returning
home, to the great surprise and displeasure of her good aunt, who believed her niece to be
as pious and devoted to praying as a nun, at least. Grumbling and crossing herself, the good
old lady rose. "The good Lord will forgive me, Aunt Isabel, since He must know the hearts of
girls better than you do," Maria Clara might have said to check the severe yet maternal chidings.

After they had breakfasted, Maria Clara consumed her impatience in working at a silk purse
while her aunt was trying to clean up the traces of the former night's revelry by swinging
a feather duster about. Capitan Tiago was busy looking over some papers. Every noise in the
street, every carriage that passed, caused the maiden to tremble and quickened the beatings
of her heart. Now she wished that she were back in the quiet convent among her friends; there
she could have seen him without emotion and agitation! But was he not the companion of her
infancy, had they not played together and even quarreled at times? The reason for all this
I need not explain; if you, O reader, have ever loved, you will understand; and if you have
not, it is useless for me to tell you, as the uninitiated do not comprehend these mysteries.

"I believe, Maria, that the doctor is right," said Capitan Tiago. "You ought to go into the
country, for you are pale and need fresh air. What do you think of Malabon or San Diego?" At
the mention of the latter place Maria Clara blushed like a poppy and was unable to answer.

"You and Isabel can go at once to the convent to get your clothes and to say good-by to your
friends," he continued, without raising his head. "You will not stay there any longer."

The girl felt the vague sadness that possesses the mind when we leave forever a place where
we have been happy, but another thought softened this sorrow.

"In four or five days, after you get some new clothes made, we'll go to Malabon. Your godfather
is no longer in San Diego. The priest that you may have noticed here last night, that young
padre, is the new curate whom we have there, and he is a saint."

"I think that San Diego would be better, cousin," observed Aunt Isabel. "Besides, our house
there is better and the time for the fiesta draws near."

Maria Clara wanted to embrace her aunt for this speech, but hearing a carriage stop, she turned
pale.

"Ah, very true," answered Capitan Tiago, and then in a different tone he exclaimed, "Don Crisostomo!"

The maiden let her sewing fall from her hands and wished to move but could not--a violent tremor
ran through her body. Steps were heard on the stairway and then a fresh, manly voice. As if
that voice had some magic power, the maiden controlled her emotion and ran to hide in the oratory
among the saints. The two cousins laughed, and Ibarra even heard the noise of the door closing.
Pale and breathing rapidly, the maiden pressed her beating heart and tried to listen. She heard
his voice, that beloved voice that for so long a time she had heard only in her dreams he was
asking for her! Overcome with joy, she kissed the nearest saint, which happened to be St. Anthony
the Abbot, a saint happy in flesh and in wood, ever the object of pleasing temptations! Afterwards
she sought the keyhole in order to see and examine him. She smiled, and when her aunt snatched
her from that position she unconsciously threw her arms around the old lady's neck and rained
kisses upon her.

"Foolish child, what's the matter with you?" the old lady was at last able to say as she wiped
a tear from her faded eyes. Maria Clara felt ashamed and covered her eyes with her plump arm.

"Come on, get ready, come!" added the old aunt fondly. "While he is talking to your father
about you. Come, don't make him wait." Like a child the maiden obediently followed her and
they shut themselves up in her chamber.

Capitan Tiago and Ibarra were conversing in a lively manner when Aunt Isabel appeared half
dragging her niece, who was looking in every direction except toward the persons in the room.

What said those two souls communicating through the language of the eyes, more perfect than
that of the lips, the language given to the soul in order that sound may not mar the ecstasy
of feeling? In such moments, when the thoughts of two happy beings penetrate into each other's
souls through the eyes, the spoken word is halting, rude, and weak--it is as the harsh, slow
roar of the thunder compared with the rapidity of the dazzling lightning flash, expressing
feelings already recognized, ideas already understood, and if words are made use of it is only
because the heart's desire, dominating all the being and flooding it with happiness, wills
that the whole human organism with all its physical and psychical powers give expression to
the song of joy that rolls through the soul. To the questioning glance of love, as it flashes
out and then conceals itself, speech has no reply; the smile, the kiss, the sigh answer.

Soon the two lovers, fleeing from the dust raised by Aunt Isabel's broom, found themselves
on the azotea where they could commune in liberty among the little arbors. What did they tell
each other in murmurs that you nod your heads, O little red cypress flowers? Tell it, you who
have fragrance in your breath and color on your lips. And thou, O zephyr, who learnest rare
harmonies in the stillness of the dark night amid the hidden depths of our virgin forests!
Tell it, O sunbeams, brilliant manifestation upon earth of the Eternal, sole immaterial essence
in a material world, you tell it, for I only know how to relate prosaic commonplaces. But since
you seem unwilling to do so, I am going to try myself.

The sky was blue and a fresh breeze, not yet laden with the fragrance of roses, stirred the
leaves and flowers of the vines; that is why the cypresses, the orchids, the dried fishes,
and the Chinese lanterns were trembling. The splash of paddles in the muddy waters of the river
and the rattle of carriages and carts passing over the Binondo bridge came up to them distinctly,
although they did not hear what the old aunt murmured as she saw where they were: "That's better,
there you'll be watched by the whole neighborhood." At first they talked nonsense, giving utterance
only to those sweet inanities which are so much like the boastings of the nations of Europe--pleasing
and honey-sweet at home, but causing foreigners to laugh or frown.

She, like a sister of Cain, was of course jealous and asked her sweetheart, "Have you always
thought of me? Have you never forgotten me on all your travels in the great cities among so
many beautiful women?"

He, too, was a brother of Cain, and sought to evade such questions, making use of a little
fiction. "Could I forget you?" he answered as he gazed enraptured into her dark eyes. "Could
I be faithless to my oath, my sacred oath? Do you remember that stormy night when you saw me
weeping alone by the side of my dead mother and, drawing near to me, you put your hand on my
shoulder, that hand which for so long a time you had not allowed me to touch, saying to me,
'You have lost your mother while I never had one,' and you wept with me? You loved her and
she looked upon you as a daughter. Outside it rained and the lightning flashed, but within
I seemed to hear music and to see a smile on the pallid face of the dead. Oh, that my parents
were alive and might behold you now! I then caught your hand along with the hand of my mother
and swore to love you and to make you happy, whatever fortune Heaven might have in store for
me; and that oath, which has never weighed upon me as a burden, I now renew!

"Could I forget you? The thought of you has ever been with me, strengthening me amid the dangers
of travel, and has been a comfort to my soul's loneliness in foreign lands. The thoughts of
you have neutralized the lotus-effect of Europe, which erases from the memories of so many
of our countrymen the hopes and misfortunes of our fatherland. In dreams I saw you standing
on the shore at Manila, gazing at the far horizon wrapped in the warm light of the early dawn.
I heard the slow, sad song that awoke in me sleeping affections and called back to the memory
of my heart the first years of our childhood, our joys, our pleasures, and all that happy past
which you gave life to while you were in our town. It seemed to me that you were the fairy,
the spirit, the poetic incarnation of my fatherland, beautiful, unaffected, lovable, frank,
a true daughter of the Philippines, that beautiful land which unites with the imposing virtues
of the mother country, Spain, the admirable qualities of a young people, as you unite in your
being all that is beautiful and lovely, the inheritance of both races" so indeed the love of
you and that of my fatherland have become fused into one.

"Could I forget you? Many times have I thought that I heard the sound of your piano and the
accents of your voice. When in Germany, as I wandered at twilight in the woods, peopled with
the fantastic creations of its poets and the mysterious legends of past generations, always
I called upon your name, imagining that I saw you in the mists that rose from the depths of
the valley, or I fancied that I heard your voice in the rustling of the leaves. When from afar
I heard the songs of the peasants as they returned from their labors, it seemed to me that
their tones harmonized with my inner voices, that they were singing for you, and thus they
lent reality to my illusions and dreams. At times I became lost among the mountain paths and
while the night descended slowly, as it does there, I would find myself still wandering, seeking
my way among the pines and beeches and oaks. Then when some scattering rays of moonlight slipped
down into the clear spaces left in the dense foliage, I seemed to see you in the heart of the
forest as a dim, loving shade wavering about between the spots of light and shadow. If perhaps
the nightingale poured forth his varied trills, I fancied it was because he saw you and was
inspired by you.

"Have I thought of you? The fever of love not only gave warmth to the snows but colored the
ice! The beautiful skies of Italy with their clear depths reminded me of your eyes, its sunny
landscape spoke to me of your smile; the plains of Andalusia with their scent-laden airs, peopled
with oriental memories, full of romance and color, told me of your love! On dreamy, moonlit
nights, while boating oil the Rhine, I have asked myself if my fancy did not deceive me as
I saw you among the poplars on the banks, on the rocks of the Lorelei, or in the midst of the
waters, singing in the silence of the night as if you were a comforting fairy maiden sent to
enliven the solitude and sadness of those ruined castles!"

"I have not traveled like you, so I know only your town and Manila and Antipolo," she answered
with a smile which showed that she believed all he said. "But since I said good-by to you and
entered the convent, I have always thought of you and have only put you out of my mind when
ordered to do so by my confessor, who imposed many penances upon me. I recalled our games and
our quarrels when we were children. You used to pick up the most beautiful shells and search
in the river for the roundest and smoothest pebbles of different colors that we might play
games with them. You were very stupid and always lost, and by way of a forfeit I would slap
you with the palm of my hand, but I always tried not to strike you hard, for I had pity on
you. In those games you cheated much, even more than I did, and we used to finish our play
in a quarrel. Do you remember that time when you became really angry at me? Then you made me
suffer, but afterwards, when I thought of it in the convent, I smiled and longed for you so
that we might quarrel again--so that we might once more make up. We were still children and
had gone with your mother to bathe in the brook under the shade of the thick bamboo. On the
banks grew many flowers and plants whose strange names you told me in Latin and Spanish, for
you were even then studying in the Ateneo. [44] I paid no attention, but amused myself by running
after the needle-like dragon-flies and the butterflies with their rainbow colors and tints
of mother-of-pearl as they swarmed about among the flowers. Sometimes I tried to surprise them
with my hands or to catch the little fishes that slipped rapidly about amongst the moss and
stones in the edge of the water. Once you disappeared suddenly and when you returned you brought
a crown of leaves and orange blossoms, which you placed upon my head, calling me Chloe. For
yourself you made one of vines. But your mother snatched away my crown, and after mashing it
with a stone mixed it with the gogo with which she was going to wash our heads. The tears came
into your eyes and you said that she did not understand mythology. 'Silly boy,' your mother
exclaimed, 'you'll see how sweet your hair will smell afterwards.' I laughed, but you were
offended and would not talk with me, and for the rest of the day appeared so serious that then
I wanted to cry. On our way back to the town through the hot sun, I picked some sage leaves
that grew beside the path and gave them to you to put in your hat so that you might not get
a headache. You smiled and caught my hand, and we made up."

Ibarra smiled with happiness as he opened his pocketbook and took from it a piece of paper
in which were wrapped some dry, blackened leaves which gave off a sweet odor. "Your sage leaves,"
he said, in answer to her inquiring look. "This is all that you have ever given me."

She in turn snatched from her bosom a little pouch of white satin. "You must not touch this,"
she said, tapping the palm of his hand lightly. "It's a letter of farewell."

"The one I wrote to you before leaving?"

"Have you ever written me any other, sir?"

"And what did I say to you then?"

"Many fibs, excuses of a delinquent debtor," she answered smilingly, thus giving him to understand
how sweet to her those fibs were. "Be quiet now and I'll read it to you. I'll leave out your
fine phrases in order not to make a martyr of you."

Raising the paper to the height of her eyes so that the youth might not see her face, she began:
"'My'--but I'll not read what follows that because it's not true."

Her eyes ran along some lines.

"'My father wishes me to go away, in spite of all my pleadings. 'You are a man now,' he told
me, 'and you must think about your future and about your duties. You must learn the science
of life, a thing which your fatherland cannot teach you, so that you may some day be useful
to it. If you remain here in my shadow, in this environment of business affairs, you will not
learn to look far ahead. The day in which you lose me you will find yourself like the plant
of which our poet Baltazar tells: grown in the water, its leaves wither at the least scarcity
of moisture and a moment's heat dries it up. Don't you understand? You are almost a young man,
and yet you weep!' These reproaches hurt me and I confessed that I loved you. My father reflected
for a time in silence and then, placing his hand on my shoulder, said in a trembling voice,
'Do you think that you alone know how to love, that your father does not love you, and that
he will not feel the separation from you? It is only a short time since we lost your mother,
and I must journey on alone toward old age, toward the very time of life when I would seek
help and comfort from your youth, yet I accept my loneliness, hardly knowing whether I shall
ever see you again. But you must think of other and greater things; the future lies open before
you, while for me it is already passing behind; your love is just awakening, while mine is
dying; fire burns in your blood, while the chill is creeping into mine. Yet you weep and cannot
sacrifice the present for the future, useful as it may be alike to yourself and to your country.'
My father's eyes filled with tears and I fell upon my knees at his feet, I embraced him, I
begged his forgiveness, and I assured him that I was ready to set out--'"

Ibarra's growing agitation caused her to suspend the reading, for he had grown pale and was
pacing back and forth.

"What's the matter? What is troubling you?" she asked him.

"You have almost made me forget that I have my duties, that I must leave at once for the town.
Tomorrow is the day for commemorating the dead."

Maria Clara silently fixed her large dreamy eyes upon him for a few moments and then, picking
some flowers, she said with emotion, "Go, I won't detain you longer! In a few days we shall
see each other again. Lay these flowers on the tomb of your parents."

A few moments later the youth descended the stairway accompanied by Capitan Tiago and Aunt
Isabel, while Maria Clara shut herself up in the oratory.

"Please tell Andeng to get the house ready, as Maria and Isabel are coming. A pleasant journey!"
said Capitan Tiago as Ibarra stepped into the carriage, which at once started in the direction
of the plaza of San Gabriel.

Afterwards, by way of consolation, her father said to Maria Clara, who was weeping beside an
image of the Virgin, "Come, light two candles worth two reals each, one to St. Roch, [45] and
one to St. Raphael, the protector of travelers. Light the lamp of Our Lady of Peace and Prosperous
Voyages, since there are so many tulisanes. It's better to spend four reals for wax and six
cuartos for oil now than to pay a big ransom later."

CHAPTER VIII

Recollections

Ibarra's carriage was passing through a part of the busiest district in Manila, the same which
the night before had made him feel sad, but which by daylight caused him to smile in spite
of himself. The movement in every part, so many carriages coming and going at full speed, the
carromatas and calesas, the Europeans, the Chinese, the natives, each in his own peculiar costume,
the fruit-venders, the money-changers, the naked porters, the grocery stores, the lunch stands
and restaurants, the shops, and even the carts drawn by the impassive and indifferent carabao,
who seems to amuse himself in carrying burdens while he patiently ruminates, all this noise
and confusion, the very sun itself, the distinctive odors and the motley colors, awoke in the
youth's mind a world of sleeping recollections.

Those streets had not yet been paved, and two successive days of sunshine filled them with
dust which covered everything and made the passer-by cough while it nearly blinded him. A day
of rain formed pools of muddy water, which at night reflected the carriage lights and splashed
mud a distance of several yards away upon the pedestrians on the narrow sidewalks. And how
many women have left their embroidered slippers in those waves of mud!

Then there might have been seen repairing those streets the lines of convicts with their shaven
heads, dressed in short-sleeved camisas and pantaloons that reached only to their knees, each
with his letter and number in blue. On their legs were chains partly wrapped in dirty rags
to ease the chafing or perhaps the chill of the iron. Joined two by two, scorched in the sun,
worn out by the heat and fatigue, they were lashed and goaded by a whip in the hands of one
of their own number, who perhaps consoled himself with this power of maltreating others. They
were tall men with somber faces, which he had never seen brightened with the light of a smile.
Yet their eyes gleamed when the whistling lash fell upon their shoulders or when a passer-by
threw them the chewed and broken stub of a cigar, which the nearest would snatch up and hide
in his salakot, while the rest remained gazing at the passers-by with strange looks.

The noise of the stones being crushed to fill the puddles and the merry clank of the heavy
fetters on the swollen ankles seemed to remain with Ibarra. He shuddered as he recalled a scene
that had made a deep impression on his childish imagination. It was a hot afternoon, and the
burning rays of the sun fell perpendicularly upon a large cart by the side of which was stretched
out one of those unfortunates, lifeless, yet with his eyes half opened. Two others were silently
preparing a bamboo bier, showing no signs of anger or sorrow or impatience, for such is the
character attributed to the natives: today it is you, tomorrow it will be I, they say to themselves.
The people moved rapidly about without giving heed, women came up and after a look of curiosity
continued unconcerned on their way--it was such a common sight that their hearts had become
callous. Carriages passed, flashing back from their varnished sides the rays of the sun that
burned in a cloudless sky. Only he, a child of eleven years and fresh from the country, was
moved, and to him alone it brought bad dreams on the following night.

There no longer existed the useful and honored Puente de Barcas, the good Filipino pontoon
bridge that had done its best to be of service in spite of its natural imperfections and its
rising and falling at the caprice of the Pasig, which had more than once abused it and finally
destroyed it. The almond trees in the plaza of San Gabriel [46] had not grown; they were still
in the same feeble and stunted condition. The Escolta appeared less beautiful in spite of the
fact that an imposing building with caryatids carved on its front now occupied the place of
the old row of shops. The new Bridge of Spain caught his attention, while the houses on the
right bank of the river among the clumps of bamboo and trees where the Escolta ends and the
Isla de Romero begins, reminded him of the cool mornings when he used to pass there in a boat
on his way to the baths of Uli-Uli.

He met many carriages, drawn by beautiful pairs of dwarfish ponies, within which were government
clerks who seemed yet half asleep as they made their way to their offices, or military officers,
or Chinese in foolish and ridiculous attitudes, or Gave friars and canons. In an elegant victoria
he thought he recognized Padre Damaso, grave and frowning, but he had already passed. Now he
was pleasantly greeted by Capitan Tinong, who was passing in a carretela with his wife and
two daughters.

As they went down off the bridge the horses broke into a trot along the Sabana Drive. [47]
On the left the Arroceros Cigar Factory resounded with the noise of the cigar-makers pounding
the tobacco leaves, and Ibarra was unable to restrain a smile as he thought of the strong odor
which about five o'clock in the afternoon used to float all over the Puente de Barcas and which
had made him sick when he was a child. The lively conversations and the repartee of the crowds
from the cigar factories carried him back to the district of Lavapiés in Madrid, with its riots
of cigar-makers, so fatal for the unfortunate policemen.

The Botanical Garden drove away these agreeable recollections; the demon of comparison brought
before his mind the Botanical Gardens of Europe, in countries where great, labor and much money
are needed to make a single leaf grow or one flower open its calyx; he recalled those of the
colonies, where they are well supplied and tended, and all open to the public. Ibarra turned
away his gaze toward the old Manila surrounded still by its walls and moats like a sickly girl
wrapped in the garments of her grandmother's better days.

Then the sight of the sea losing itself in the distance! "On the other shore lies Europe,"
thought the young man,--"Europe, with its attractive peoples in constant movement in the search
for happiness, weaving their dreams in the morning and disillusioning themselves at the setting
of the sun, happy even in the midst of their calamities. Yes, on the farther shore of the boundless
sea are the really spiritual nations, those who, even though they put no restraints on material
development, are still more spiritual than those who pride themselves on adoring only the spirit!"

But these musings were in turn banished from his mind as he came in sight of the little mound
in Bagumbayan Field. [48] This isolated knoll at the side of the Luneta now caught his attention
and made him reminiscent. He thought of the man who had awakened his intellect and made him
understand goodness and justice. The ideas which that man had impressed upon him were not many,
to be sure, but they were not meaningless repetitions, they were convictions which had not
paled in the light of the most brilliant foci of progress. That man was an old priest whose
words of farewell still resounded in his ears: "Do not forget that if knowledge is the heritage
of mankind, it is only the courageous who inherit it," he had reminded him. "I have tried to
pass on to you what I got from my teachers, the sum of which I have endeavored to increase
and transmit to the coming generation as far as in me lay. You will now do the same for those
who come after you, and you can treble it, since you are going to rich countries." Then he
had added with a smile, "They come here seeking wealth, go you to their country to seek also
that other wealth which we lack! But remember that all that glitters is not gold." The old
man had died on that spot.

At these recollections the youth murmured audibly: "No, in spite of everything, the fatherland
first, first the Philippines, the child of Spain, first the Spanish fatherland! No, that which
is decreed by fate does not tarnish the honor of the fatherland, no!"

He gave little heed to Ermita, the phenix of nipa that had rearisen from its ashes under the
form of blue and white houses with red-painted roofs of corrugated iron. Nor was his attention
caught by Malate, neither by the cavalry barracks with the spreading trees in front, nor by
the inhabitants or their little nipa huts, pyramidal or prismatic in shape, hidden away among
the banana plants and areca palms, constructed like nests by each father of a family.

The carriage continued on its way, meeting now and then carromatas drawn by one or two ponies
whose abaka harness indicated that they were from the country. The drivers would try to catch
a glimpse of the occupant of the fine carriage, but would pass on without exchanging a word,
without a single salute. At times a heavy cart drawn by a slow and indifferent carabao would
appear on the dusty road over which beat the brilliant sunlight of the tropics. The mournful
and monotonous song of the driver mounted on the back of the carabao would be mingled at one
time with the screechings of a dry wheel on the huge axle of the heavy vehicle or at another
time with the dull scraping of worn-out runners on a sledge which was dragged heavily through
the dust, and over the ruts in the road. In the fields and wide meadows the herds were grazing,
attended ever by the white buffalo-birds which roosted peacefully on the backs of the animals
while these chewed their cuds or browsed in lazy contentment upon the rich grass. In the distance
ponies frisked, jumping and running about, pursued by the lively colts with long tails and
abundant manes who whinnied and pawed the ground with their hard hoofs.

Let us leave the youth dreaming or dozing, since neither the sad nor the animated poetry of
the open country held his attention. For him there was no charm in the sun that gleamed upon
the tops of the trees and caused the rustics, with feet burned by the hot ground in spite of
their callousness, to hurry along, or that made the villager pause beneath the shade of an
almond tree or a bamboo brake while he pondered upon vague and inexplicable things. While the
youth's carriage sways along like a drunken thing on account of the inequalities in the surface
of the road when passing over a bamboo bridge or going up an incline or descending a steep
slope, let us return to Manila.

CHAPTER IX

Local Affairs

Ibarra had not been mistaken about the occupant of the victoria, for it was indeed Padre Damaso,
and he was on his way to the house which the youth had just left.

"Where are you going?" asked the friar of Maria Clara and Aunt Isabel, who were about to enter
a silver-mounted carriage. In the midst of his preoccupation Padre Damaso stroked the maiden's
cheek lightly.

"To the convent to get my things," answered the latter.

"Ahaa! Aha! We'll see who's stronger, we'll see," muttered the friar abstractedly, as with
bowed head and slow step he turned to the stairway, leaving the two women not a little amazed.

"He must have a sermon to preach and is memorizing it," commented Aunt Isabel. "Get in, Maria,
or we'll be late."

Whether or not Padre Damaso was preparing a sermon we cannot say, but it is certain that some
grave matter filled his mind, for he did not extend his hand to Capitan Tiago, who had almost
to get down on his knees to kiss it.

"Santiago," said the friar at once, "I have an important matter to talk to you about. Let's
go into your office."

Capitan Tiago began to feel uneasy, so much so that he did not know what to say; but he obeyed,
following the heavy figure of the priest, who closed the door behind him.

While they confer in secret, let us learn what Fray Sibyla has been doing. The astute Dominican
is not at the rectory, for very soon after celebrating mass he had gone to the convent of his
order, situated just inside the gate of Isabel II, or of Magellan, according to what family
happened to be reigning in Madrid. Without paying any attention to the rich odor of chocolate,
or to the rattle of boxes and coins which came from the treasury, and scarcely acknowledging
the respectful and deferential salute of the procurator-brother, he entered, passed along several
corridors, and knocked at a door.

"Come in," sighed a weak voice.

"May God restore health to your Reverence," was the young Dominican's greeting as he entered.

Seated in a large armchair was an aged priest, wasted and rather sallow, like the saints that
Rivera painted. His eyes were sunken in their hollow sockets, over which his heavy eyebrows
were almost always contracted, thus accentuating their brilliant gleam. Padre Sibyla, with
his arms crossed under the venerable scapulary of St. Dominic, gazed at him feelingly, then
bowed his head and waited in silence.

"Ah," sighed the old man, "they advise an operation, an operation, Hernando, at my age! This
country, O this terrible country! Take warning from my ease, Hernando!"

Fray Sibyla raised his eyes slowly and fixed them on the sick man's face. "What has your Reverence
decided to do?" he asked.

"To die! Ah, what else can I do? I am suffering too much, but--I have made many suffer, I am
paying my debt! And how are you? What has brought you here?"

"I've come to talk about the business which you committed to my care."

"Ah! What about it?"

"Pish!" answered the young man disgustedly, as he seated himself and turned away his face with
a contemptuous expression, "They've been telling us fairy tales. Young Ibarra is a youth of
discernment; he doesn't seem to be a fool, but I believe that he is a good lad."

"You believe so?"

"Hostilities began last night."

"Already? How?"

Fray Sibyla then recounted briefly what had taken place between Padre Damaso and Ibarra. "Besides,"
he said in conclusion, "the young man is going to marry Capitan Tiago's daughter, who was educated
in the college of our Sisterhood. He's rich, and won't care to make enemies and to run the
risk of ruining his fortune and his happiness."

The sick man nodded in agreement. "Yes, I think as you do. With a wife like that and such a
father-in-law, we'll own him body and soul. If not, so much the better for him to declare himself
an enemy of ours."

Fray Sibyla looked at the old man in surprise.

"For the good of our holy Order, I mean, of course," he added, breathing heavily. "I prefer
open attacks to the silly praises and flatteries of friends, which are really paid for."

"Does your Reverence think--"

The old man regarded him sadly. "Keep it clearly before you," he answered, gasping for breath.
"Our power will last as long as it is believed in. If they attack us, the government will say,
'They attack them because they see in them an obstacle to their liberty, so then let us preserve
them.'"

"But if it should listen to them? Sometimes the government--"

"It will not listen!"

"Nevertheless, if, led on by cupidity, it should come to wish for itself what we are taking
in--if there should be some bold and daring one--"

"Then woe unto that one!"

Both remained silent for a time, then the sick man continued: "Besides, we need their attacks,
to keep us awake; that makes us see our weaknesses so that we may remedy them. Exaggerated
flattery will deceive us and put us to sleep, while outside our walls we shall be laughed at,
and the day in which we become an object of ridicule, we shall fall as we fell in Europe. Money
will not flow into our churches, no one will buy our scapularies or girdles or anything else,
and when we cease to be rich we shall no longer be able to control consciences."

"But we shall always have our estates, our property."

"All will be lost as we lost them in Europe! And the worst of it is that we are working toward
our own ruin. For example, this unrestrained eagerness to raise arbitrarily the rents on our
lands each year, this eagerness which I have so vainly combated in all the chapters, this will
ruin us! The native sees himself obliged to purchase farms in other places, which bring him
as good returns as ours, or better. I fear that we are already on the decline; quos vult perdere
Jupiter dementat prius. [49] For this reason we should not increase our burden; the people
are already murmuring. You have decided well: let us leave the others to settle their accounts
in that quarter; let us preserve the prestige that remains to us, and as we shall soon appear
before God, let us wash our hands of it--and may the God of mercy have pity on our weakness!"

"So your Reverence thinks that the rent or tax--"

"Let's not talk any more about money," interrupted the sick man with signs of disgust. "You
say that the lieutenant threatened to Padre Damaso that--"

"Yes, Padre," broke in Fray Sibyla with a faint smile, "but this morning I saw him and he told
me that he was sorry for what occurred last night, that the sherry had gone to his head, and
that he believed that Padre Damaso was in the same condition. 'And your threat?' I asked him
jokingly. 'Padre,' he answered me, 'I know how to keep my word when my honor is affected, but
I am not nor have ever been an informer--for that reason I wear only two stars.'"

After they had conversed a while longer on unimportant subjects, Fray Sibyla took his departure.

It was true that the lieutenant had not gone to the Palace, but the Captain-General heard what
had occurred. While talking with some of his aides about the allusions that the Manila newspapers
were making to him under the names of comets and celestial apparitions, one of them told him
about the affair of Padre Damaso, with a somewhat heightened coloring although substantially
correct as to matter.

"From whom did you learn this?" asked his Excellency, smiling.

"From Laruja, who was telling it this morning in the office."

The Captain-General again smiled and said: "A woman or a friar can't insult one. I contemplate
living in peace for the time that I shall remain in this country and I don't want any more
quarrels with men who wear skirts. Besides, I've learned that the Provincial has scoffed at
my orders. I asked for the removal of this friar as a punishment and they transferred him to
a better town 'monkish tricks,' as we say in Spain."

But when his Excellency found himself alone he stopped smiling. "Ah, if this people were not
so stupid, I would put a curb on their Reverences," he sighed to himself. "But every people
deserves its fate, so let's do as everybody else does."

Capitan Tiago, meanwhile, had concluded his interview with Padre Damaso, or rather, to speak
more exactly, Padre Damaso had concluded with him.

"So now you are warned!" said the Franciscan on leaving. "All this could have been avoided
if you had consulted me beforehand, if you had not lied when I asked you. Try not to play any
more foolish tricks, and trust your protector."

Capitan Tiago walked up and down the sala a few times, meditating and sighing. Suddenly, as
if a happy thought had occurred to him, he ran to the oratory and extinguished the candles
and the lamp that had been lighted for Ibarra's safety. "The way is long and there's yet time,"
he muttered.

CHAPTER X

The Town

Almost on the margin of the lake, in the midst of meadows and paddy-fields, lies the town of
San Diego. [50] From it sugar, rice, coffee, and fruits are either exported or sold for a small
part of their value to the Chinese, who exploit the simplicity and vices of the native farmers.

When on a clear day the boys ascend to the upper part of the church tower, which is beautified
by moss and creeping plants, they break out into joyful exclamations at the beauty of the scene
spread out before them. In the midst of the clustering roofs of nipa, tiles, corrugated iron,
and palm leaves, separated by groves and gardens, each one is able to discover his own home,
his little nest. Everything serves as a mark: a tree, that tamarind with its light foliage,
that coco palm laden with nuts, like the Astarte Genetrix, or the Diana of Ephesus with her
numerous breasts, a bending bamboo, an areca palm, or a cross. Yonder is the river, a huge
glassy serpent sleeping on a green carpet, with rocks, scattered here and there along its sandy
channel, that break its current into ripples. There, the bed is narrowed between high banks
to which the gnarled trees cling with bared roots; here, it becomes a gentle slope where the
stream widens and eddies about. Farther away, a small hut built on the edge of the high bank
seems to defy the winds, the heights and the depths, presenting with its slender posts the
appearance of a huge, long-legged bird watching for a reptile to seize upon. Trunks of palm
or other trees with their bark still on them unite the banks by a shaky and infirm foot-bridge
which, if not a very secure crossing, is nevertheless a wonderful contrivance for gymnastic
exercises in preserving one's balance, a thing not to be despised. The boys bathing in the
river are amused by the difficulties of the old woman crossing with a basket on her head or
by the antics of the old man who moves tremblingly and loses his staff in the water.

But that which always attracts particular notice is what might be called a peninsula of forest
in the sea of cultivated fields. There in that wood are century-old trees with hollow trunks,
which die only when their high tops are struck and set on fire by the lightning--and it is
said that the fire always checks itself and dies out in the same spot. There are huge points
of rock which time and nature are clothing with velvet garments of moss. Layer after layer
of dust settles in the hollows, the rains beat it down, and the birds bring seeds. The tropical
vegetation spreads out luxuriantly in thickets and underbrush, while curtains of interwoven
vines hang from the branches of the trees and twine about their roots or spread along the ground,
as if Flora were not yet satisfied but must place plant above plant. Mosses and fungi live
upon the cracked trunks, and orchids--graceful guests--twine in loving embrace with the foliage
of the hospitable trees.

Strange legends exist concerning this wood, which is held in awe by the country folk. The most
credible account, and therefore the one least known and believed, seems to be this. When the
town was still a collection of miserable huts with the grass growing abundantly in the so-called
streets, at the time when the wild boar and deer roamed about during the nights, there arrived
in the place one day an old, hollow-eyed Spaniard, who spoke Tagalog rather well. After looking
about and inspecting the land, he finally inquired for the owners of this wood, in which there
were hot springs. Some persons who claimed to be such presented themselves, and the old man
acquired it in exchange for clothes, jewels, and a sum of money. Soon afterward he disappeared
mysteriously. The people thought that he had been spirited away, when a bad odor from the neighboring
wood attracted the attention of some herdsmen. Tracing this, they found the decaying corpse
of the old Spaniard hanging from the branch of a balete tree. [51] In life he had inspired
fear by his deep, hollow voice, his sunken eyes, and his mirthless laugh, but now, dead by
his own act, he disturbed the sleep of the women. Some threw the jewels into the river and
burned the clothes, and from the time that the corpse was buried at the foot of the balete
itself, no one willingly ventured near the spot. A belated herdsman looking for some of his
strayed charges told of lights that he had seen there, and when some venturesome youths went
to the place they heard mournful cries. To win the smiles of his disdainful lady, a forlorn
lover agreed to spend the night there and in proof to wrap around the trunk a long piece of
rattan, but he died of a quick fever that seized him the very next day. Stories and legends
still cluster about the place.

A few months after the finding of the old Spaniard's body there appeared a youth, apparently
a Spanish mestizo, who said that he was the son of the deceased. He established himself in
the place and devoted his attention to agriculture, especially the raising of indigo. Don Saturnino
was a silent young man with a violent disposition, even cruel at times, yet he was energetic
and industrious. He surrounded the grave of his father with a wall, but visited it only at
rare intervals. When he was along in years, he married a young woman from Manila, and she became
the mother of Don Rafael, the father of Crisostomo. From his youth Don Rafael was a favorite
with the country people. The agricultural methods introduced and encouraged by his father spread
rapidly, new settlers poured in, the Chinese came, and the settlement became a village with
a native priest. Later the village grew into a town, the priest died, and Fray Damaso came.

All this time the tomb and the land around it remained unmolested. Sometimes a crowd of boys
armed with clubs and stones would become bold enough to wander into the place to gather guavas,
papayas, lomboy, and other fruits, but it frequently happened that when their sport was at
its height, or while they gazed in awed silence at the rotting piece of rope which still swung
from the branch, stones would fall, coming from they knew not where. Then with cries of "The
old man! The old man!" they would throw away fruit and clubs, jump from the trees, and hurry
between the rocks and through the thickets; nor would they stop running until they were well
out of the wood, some pale and breathless, others weeping, and only a few laughing.

CHAPTER XI

The Rulers

										Divide and rule.

										(The New Machiavelli.)

Who were the caciques of the town?

Don Rafael, when alive, even though he was the richest, owned more land, and was the patron
of nearly everybody, had not been one of them. As he was modest and depreciated the value of
his own deeds, no faction in his favor had ever been formed in the town, and we have already
seen how the people all rose up against him when they saw him hesitate upon being attacked.

Could it be Capitan Tiago? True it was that when he went there he was received with an orchestra
by his debtors, who banqueted him and heaped gifts upon him. The finest fruits burdened his
table and a quarter of deer or wild boar was his share of the hunt. If he found the horse of
a debtor beautiful, half an hour afterwards it was in his stable. All this was true, but they
laughed at him behind his back and in secret called him "Sacristan Tiago."

Perhaps it was the gobernadorcillo? [52] No, for he was only an unhappy mortal who commanded
not, but obeyed; who ordered not, but was ordered; who drove not, but was driven. Nevertheless,
he had to answer to the alcalde for having commanded, ordered, and driven, just as if he were
the originator of everything. Yet be it said to his credit that he had never presumed upon
or usurped such honors, which had cost him five thousand pesos and many humiliations. But considering
the income it brought him, it was cheap.

Well then, might it be God? Ah, the good God disturbed neither the consciences nor the sleep
of the inhabitants. At least, He did not make them tremble, and if by chance He might have
been mentioned in a sermon, surely they would have sighed longingly, "Oh, that only there were
a God!" To the good Lord they paid little attention, as the saints gave them enough to do.
For those poor folk God had come to be like those unfortunate monarchs who are surrounded by
courtiers to whom alone the people render homage.

San Diego was a kind of Rome: not the Rome of the time when the cunning Romulus laid out its
walls with a plow, nor of the later time when, bathed in its own and others' blood, it dictated
laws to the world--no, it was a Rome of our own times with the difference that in place of
marble monuments and colosseums it had its monuments of sawali and its cockpit of nipa. The
curate was the Pope in the Vatican; the alferez of the Civil Guard, the King of Italy on the
Quirinal: all, it must be understood, on a scale of nipa and bamboo. Here, as there, continual
quarreling went on, since each wished to be the master and considered the other an intruder.
Let us examine the characteristics of each.

Fray Bernardo Salvi was that silent young Franciscan of whom we have spoken before. In his
habits and manners he was quite different from his brethren and even from his predecessor,
the violent Padre Damaso. He was thin and sickly, habitually pensive, strict in the fulfilment
of his religious duties, and careful of his good name. In a month after his arrival nearly
every one in the town had joined the Venerable Tertiary Order, to the great distress of its
rival, the Society of the Holy Rosary. His soul leaped with joy to see about each neck four
or five scapularies and around each waist a knotted girdle, and to behold the procession of
corpses and ghosts in guingón habits. The senior sacristan made a small fortune selling--or
giving away as alms, we should say--all things necessary for the salvation of the soul and
the warfare against the devil, as it is well known that this spirit, which formerly had the
temerity to contradict God himself face to face and to doubt His words, as is related in the
holy book of Job, who carried our Lord Christ through the air as afterwards in the Dark Ages
he carried the ghosts, and continues, according to report, to carry the asuang of the Philippines,
now seems to have become so shamefaced that he cannot endure the sight of a piece of painted
cloth and that he fears the knots on a cord. But all this proves nothing more than that there
is progress on this side also and that the devil is backward, or at least a conservative, as
are all who dwell in darkness. Otherwise, we must attribute to him the weakness of a fifteen-year-old
girl.

As we have said, Fray Salvi was very assiduous in the fulfilment of his duties, too assiduous,
the alferez thought. While he was preaching--he was very fond of preaching--the doors of the
church were closed, wherein he was like Nero, who allowed no one to leave the theater while
he was singing. But the former did it for the salvation and the latter for the corruption of
souls. Fray Salvi rarely resorted to blows, but was accustomed to punish every shortcoming
of his subordinates with fines. In this respect he was very different from Padre Damaso, who
had been accustomed to settle everything with his fists or a cane, administering such chastisement
with the greatest good-will. For this, however, he should not be judged too harshly, as he
was firm in the belief that the Indian could be managed only by beating him, just as was affirmed
by a friar who knew enough to write books, and Padre Damaso never disputed anything that he
saw in print, a credulity of which many might have reason to complain. Although Fray Salvi
made little use of violence, yet, as an old wiseacre of the town said, what he lacked in quantity
he made up in quality. But this should not be counted against him, for the fasts and abstinences
thinned his blood and unstrung his nerves and, as the people said, the wind got into his head.
Thus it came about that it was not possible to learn from the condition of the sacristans'
backs whether the curate was fasting or feasting.

The only rival of this spiritual power, with tendencies toward the temporal, was, as we have
said, the alferez: the only one, since the women told how the devil himself would flee from
the curate, because, having one day dared to tempt him, he was caught, tied to a bedpost, soundly
whipped with a rope, and set at liberty only after nine days. As a consequence, any one who
after this would still be the enemy of such a man, deserved to fall into worse repute than
even the weak and unwary devils.

But the alferez deserved his fate. His wife was an old Filipina of abundant rouge and paint,
known as Doña Consolacion--although her husband and some others called her by quite another
name. The alferez revenged his conjugal misfortunes on his own person by getting so drunk that
he made a tank of himself, or by ordering his soldiers to drill in the sun while he remained
in the shade, or, more frequently, by beating up his consort, who, if she was not a lamb of
God to take away one's sins, at least served to lay up for her spouse many torments in Purgatory--if
perchance he should get there, a matter of doubt to the devout women. As if for the fun of
it, these two used to beat each other up beautifully, giving free shows to the neighborhood
with vocal and instrumental accompaniments, four-handed, soft, loud, with pedal and all.

Whenever these scandals reached the ears of Padre Salvi, he would smile, cross himself, and
recite a paternoster. They called him a grafter, a hypocrite, a Carlist, and a miser: he merely
smiled and recited more prayers. The alferez had a little anecdote which he always related
to the occasional Spaniards who visited him:

"Are you going over to the convento to visit the sanctimonious rascal there, the little curate?
Yes! Well, if he offers you chocolate which I doubt--but if he offers it remember this: if
he calls to the servant and says, 'Juan, make a cup of chocolate, eh!' then stay without fear;
but if he calls out, 'Juan, make a cup of chocolate, ah!' then take your hat and leave on a run."

"What!" the startled visitor would ask, "does he poison people? Carambas!"

"No, man, not at all!"

"What then?"

"'Chocolate, eh!' means thick and rich, while 'chocolate, ah!' means watered and thin."

But we are of the opinion that this was a slander on the part of the alferez, since the same
story is told of many curates. At least, it may be a thing peculiar to the Order.

To make trouble for the curate, the soldier, at the instigation of his wife, would prohibit
any one from walking abroad after nine o'clock at night. Doña Consolacion would then claim
that she had seen the curate, disguised in a piña camisa and salakot, walking about late. Fray
Salvi would take his revenge in a holy manner. Upon seeing the alferez enter the church he
would innocently order the sacristan to close all the doors, and would then go up into the
pulpit and preach until the very saints closed their eyes and even the wooden dove above his
head, the image of the Holy Ghost, murmured for mercy. But the alferez, like all the unregenerate,
did not change his ways for this; he would go away cursing, and as soon as he was able to catch
a sacristan, or one of the curate's servants, he would arrest him, give him a beating, and
make him scrub the floor of the barracks and that of his own house, which at such times was
put in a decent condition. On going to pay the fine imposed by the curate for his absence,
the sacristan would explain the cause. Fray Salvi would listen in silence, take the money,
and at once turn out his goats and sheep so that they might graze in the alferez's garden,
while he himself looked up a new text for another longer and more edifying sermon. But these
were only little pleasantries, and if the two chanced to meet they would shake hands and converse
politely.

When her husband was sleeping off the wine he had drunk, or was snoring through the siesta,
and she could not quarrel with him, Doña Consolacion, in a blue flannel camisa, with a big
cigar in her mouth, would take her stand at the window. She could not endure the young people,
so from there she would scrutinize and mock the passing girls, who, being afraid of her, would
hurry by in confusion, holding their breath the while, and not daring to raise their eyes.
One great virtue Doña Consolation possessed, and this was that she had evidently never looked
in a mirror.

These were the rulers of the town of San Diego.

CHAPTER XII

All Saints

The one thing perhaps that indisputably distinguishes man from the brute creation is the attention
which he pays to those who have passed away and, wonder of wonders! this characteristic seems
to be more deeply rooted in proportion to the lack of civilization. Historians relate that
the ancient inhabitants of the Philippines venerated and deified their ancestors; but now the
contrary is true, and the dead have to entrust themselves to the living. It is also related
that the people of New Guinea preserve the bones of their dead in chests and maintain communication
with them. The greater part of the peoples of Asia, Africa, and America offer them the finest
products of their kitchens or dishes of what was their favorite food when alive, and give banquets
at which they believe them to be present. The Egyptians raised up palaces and the Mussulmans
built shrines, but the masters in these things, those who have most clearly read the human
heart, are the people of Dahomey. These negroes know that man is revengeful, so they consider
that nothing will more content the dead than to sacrifice all his enemies upon his grave, and,
as man is curious and may not know how to entertain himself in the other life, each year they
send him a newsletter under the skin of a beheaded slave.

We ourselves differ from all the rest. In spite of the inscriptions on the tombs, hardly any
one believes that the dead rest, and much less, that they rest in peace. The most optimistic
fancies his forefathers still roasting in purgatory and, if it turns out that he himself be
not completely damned, he will yet be able to associate with them for many years. If any one
would contradict let him visit the churches and cemeteries of the country on All Saints' day
and he will be convinced.

Now that we are in San Diego let us visit its cemetery, which is located in the midst of paddy-fields,
there toward the west--not a city, merely a village of the dead, approached by a path dusty
in dry weather and navigable on rainy days. A wooden gate and a fence half of stone and half
of bamboo stakes, appear to separate it from the abode of the living but not from the curate's
goats and some of the pigs of the neighborhood, who come and go making explorations among the
tombs and enlivening the solitude with their presence. In the center of this enclosure rises
a large wooden cross set on a stone pedestal. The storms have doubled over the tin plate for
the inscription INRI, and the rains have effaced the letters. At the foot of the cross, as
on the real Golgotha, is a confused heap of skulls and bones which the indifferent grave-digger
has thrown from the graves he digs, and there they will probably await, not the resurrection
of the dead, but the coming of the animals to defile them. Round about may be noted signs of
recent excavations; here the earth is sunken, there it forms a low mound. There grow in all
their luxuriance the tarambulo to prick the feet with its spiny berries and the pandakaki to
add its odor to that of the cemetery, as if the place did not have smells enough already. Yet
the ground is sprinkled with a few little flowers which, like those skulls, are known only
to their Creator; their petals wear a pale smile and their fragrance is the fragrance of the
tombs. The grass and creepers fill up the corners or climb over the walls and niches to cover
and beautify the naked ugliness and in places even penetrate into the fissures made by the
earthquakes, so as to hide from sight the revered hollowness of the sepulcher.

At the time we enter, the people have driven the animals away, with the single exception of
some old hog, an animal that is hard to convince, who shows his small eyes and pulling back
his head from a great gap in the fence, sticks up his snout and seems to say to a woman praying
near, "Don't eat it all, leave something for me, won't you?"

Two men are digging a grave near one of the tottering walls. One of them, the grave-digger,
works with indifference, throwing about bones as a gardener does stones and dry branches, while
the other, more intent on his work, is perspiring, smoking, and spitting at every moment.

"Listen," says the latter in Tagalog, "wouldn't it be better for us to dig in some other place?
This is too recent."

"One grave is as recent as another."

"I can't stand it any longer! That bone you're just cut in two has blood oozing from it--and
those hairs?"

"But how sensitive you are!" was the other's reproach. "Just as if you were a town clerk! If,
like myself, you had dug up a corpse of twenty days, on a dark and rainy night--! My lantern
went out--"

His companion shuddered.

"The coffin burst open, the corpse fell half-way out, it stunk--and supposing you had to carry
it--the rain wet us both--"

"Ugh! And why did you dig it up?"

The grave-digger looked at him in surprise. "Why? How do I know? I was ordered to do so."

"Who ordered you?"

The grave-digger stepped backward and looked his companion over from head to foot. "Man, you're
like a Spaniard, for afterwards a Spaniard asked me the same questions, but in secret. So I'm
going to answer you as I answered the Spaniard: the fat curate ordered me to do so."

"Ah! And what did you do with the corpse afterwards?" further questioned the sensitive one.

"The devil! If I didn't know you and was not sure that you are a man I would say that you were
certainly a Spaniard of the Civil Guard, since you ask questions just as he did. Well, the
fat curate ordered me to bury it in the Chinamen's cemetery, but the coffin was heavy and the
Chinese cemetery far away--"

"No, no! I'm not going to dig any more!" the other interrupted in horror as he threw away his
spade and jumped out of the hole. "I've cut a skull in two and I'm afraid that it won't let
me sleep tonight." The old grave-digger laughed to see how the chicken-hearted fellow left,
crossing himself.

The cemetery was filling up with men and women dressed in mourning. Some sought a grave for
a time, disputing among themselves the while, and as if they were unable to agree, they scattered
about, each kneeling where he thought best. Others, who had niches for their deceased relatives,
lighted candles and fell to praying devoutly. Exaggerated or suppressed sighs and sobs were
heard amid the hum of prayers, orapreo, orapreiss, requiem-aeternams, that arose from all sides.

A little old man with bright eyes entered bareheaded. Upon seeing him many laughed, and some
women knitted their eyebrows. The old man did not seem to pay any attention to these demonstrations
as he went toward a pile of skulls and knelt to look earnestly for something among the bones.
Then he carefully removed the skulls one by one, but apparently without finding what he sought,
for he wrinkled his brow, nodded his head from side to side, looked all about him, and finally
rose and approached the grave-digger, who raised his head when the old man spoke to him.

"Do you know where there is a beautiful skull, white as the meat of a coconut, with a complete
set of teeth, which I had there at the foot of the cross under those leaves?"

The grave-digger shrugged his shoulders.

"Look!" added the old man, showing a silver coin, "I have only this, but I'll give it to you
if you find the skull for me."

The gleam of the silver caused the grave-digger to consider, and staring toward the heap of
bones he said, "Isn't it there? No? Then I don't know where it is."

"Don't you know? When those who owe me pay me, I'll give you more," continued the old man.
"It was the skull of my wife, so if you find it for me--"

"Isn't it there? Then I don't know! But if you wish, I can give you another."

"You're like the grave you're digging," apostrophized the old man nervously. "You don't know
the value of what you lose. For whom is that grave?"

"How should I know?" replied the other in bad humor.

"For a corpse!"

"Like the grave, like the grave!" repeated the old man with a dry smile. "You don't know what
you throw away nor what you receive! Dig, dig on!" And he turned away in the direction of the gate.

Meanwhile, the grave-digger had completed his task, attested by the two mounds of fresh red
earth at the sides of the grave. He took some buyo from his salakot and began to chew it while
he stared stupidly at what was going on around him.

CHAPTER XIII

Signs of Storm

As the old man was leaving the cemetery there stopped at the head of the path a carriage which,
from its dust-covered appearance and sweating horses, seemed to have come from a great distance.
Followed by an aged servant, Ibarra left the carriage and dismissed it with a wave of his hand,
then gravely and silently turned toward the cemetery.

"My illness and my duties have not permitted me to return," said the old servant timidly. "Capitan
Tiago promised that he would see that a niche was constructed, but I planted some flowers on
the grave and set up a cross carved by my own hands." Ibarra made no reply. "There behind that
big cross, sir," he added when they were well inside the gate, as he pointed to the place.

Ibarra was so intent upon his quest that he did not notice the movement of surprise on the
part of the persons who recognized him and suspended their prayers to watch him curiously.
He walked along carefully to avoid stepping on any of the graves, which were easily distinguishable
by the hollow places in the soil. In other times he had walked on them carelessly, but now
they were to be respected: his father lay among them. When he reached the large cross he stopped
and looked all around. His companion stood confused and confounded, seeking some mark in the
ground, but nowhere was any cross to be seen.

"Was it here?" he murmured through his teeth. "No, there! But the ground has been disturbed."

Ibarra gave him a look of anguish.

"Yes," he went on, "I remember that there was a stone near it. The grave was rather short.
The grave-digger was sick, so a farmer had to dig it. But let's ask that man what has become
of the cross."

They went over to where the grave-digger was watching them with curiosity. He removed his salakot
respectfully as they approached.

"Can you tell me which is the grave there that had a cross over it?" asked the servant.

The grave-digger looked toward the place and reflected. "A big cross?"

"Yes, a big one!" affirmed the servant eagerly, with a significant look at Ibarra, whose face
lighted up.

"A carved cross tied up with rattan?" continued the grave-digger.

"That's it, that's it, like this!" exclaimed the servant in answer as he drew on the ground
the figure of a Byzantine cross.

"Were there flowers scattered on the grave?"

"Oleanders and tuberoses and forget-me-nots, yes!" the servant added joyfully, offering the
grave-digger a cigar.

"Tell us which is the grave and where the cross is."

The grave-digger scratched his ear and answered with a yawn: "Well, as for the cross, I burned it."

"Burned it? Why did you burn it?"

"Because the fat curate ordered me to do so."

"Who is the fat curate?" asked Ibarra.

"Who? Why, the one that beats people with a big cane."

Ibarra drew his hand across his forehead. "But at least you can tell us where the grave is.
You must remember that."

The grave-digger smiled as he answered quietly, "But the corpse is no longer there."

"What's that you're saying?"

"Yes," continued the grave-digger in a half-jesting tone. "I buried a woman in that place a
week ago."

"Are you crazy?" cried the servant. "It hasn't been a year since we buried him."

"That's very true, but a good many months ago I dug the body up. The fat curate ordered me
to do so and to take it to the cemetery of the Chinamen. But as it was heavy and there was
rain that night--"

He was stopped by the threatening attitude of Ibarra, who had caught him by the arm and was
shaking him. "Did you do that?" demanded the youth in an indescribable tone.

"Don't be angry, sir," stammered the pale and trembling grave-digger. "I didn't bury him among
the Chinamen. Better be drowned than lie among Chinamen, I said to myself, so I threw the body
into the lake."

Ibarra placed both his hands on the grave-digger's shoulders and stared at him for a long time
with an indefinable expression. Then, with the ejaculation, "You are only a miserable slave!"
he turned away hurriedly, stepping upon bones, graves, and crosses, like one beside himself.

The grave-digger patted his arm and muttered, "All the trouble dead men cause! The fat padre
caned me for allowing it to be buried while I was sick, and this fellow almost tore my arm
off for having dug it up. That's what these Spaniards are! I'll lose my job yet!"

Ibarra walked rapidly with a far-away look in his eyes, while the aged servant followed him
weeping. The sun was setting, and over the eastern sky was flung a heavy curtain of clouds.
A dry wind shook the tree-tops and made the bamboo clumps creak. Ibarra went bareheaded, but
no tear wet his eyes nor did any sigh escape from his breast. He moved as if fleeing from something,
perhaps the shade of his father, perhaps the approaching storm. He crossed through the town
to the outskirts on the opposite side and turned toward the old house which he had not entered
for so many years. Surrounded by a cactus-covered wall it seemed to beckon to him with its
open windows, while the ilang-ilang waved its flower-laden branches joyfully and the doves
circled about the conical roof of their cote in the middle of the garden.

But the youth gave no heed to these signs of welcome back to his old home, his eyes being fixed
on the figure of a priest approaching from the opposite direction. It was the curate of San
Diego, the pensive Franciscan whom we have seen before, the rival of the alferez. The breeze
folded back the brim of his wide hat and blew his guingón habit closely about him, revealing
the outlines of his body and his thin, curved thighs. In his right hand he carried an ivory-headed
palasan cane.

This was the first time that he and Ibarra had met. When they drew near each other Ibarra stopped
and gazed at him from head to foot; Fray Salvi avoided the look and tried to appear unconcerned.
After a moment of hesitation Ibarra went up to him quickly and dropping a heavy hand on his
shoulder, asked in a husky voice, "What did you do with my father?"

Fray Salvi, pale and trembling as he read the deep feelings that flushed the youth's face,
could not answer; he seemed paralyzed.

"What did you do with my father?" again demanded the youth in a choking voice.

The priest, who was gradually being forced to his knees by the heavy hand that pressed upon
his shoulder, made a great effort and answered, "You are mistaken, I did nothing to your father."

"You didn't?" went on the youth, forcing him down upon his knees.

"No, I assure you! It was my predecessor, it was Padre Damaso!"

"Ah!" exclaimed the youth, releasing his hold, and clapping his hand desperately to his brow;
then, leaving poor Fray Salvi, he turned away and hurried toward his house. The old servant
came up and helped the friar to his feet.

CHAPTER XIV

Tasio: Lunatic or Sage

The peculiar old man wandered about the streets aimlessly. A former student of philosophy,
he had given up his career in obedience to his mother's wishes and not from any lack of means
or ability. Quite the contrary, it was because his mother was rich and he was said to possess
talent. The good woman feared that her son would become learned and forget God, so she had
given him his choice of entering the priesthood or leaving college. Being in love, he chose
the latter course and married. Then having lost both his wife and his mother within a year,
he sought consolation in his books in order to free himself from sorrow, the cockpit, and the
dangers of idleness. He became so addicted to his studies and the purchase of books, that he
entirely neglected his fortune and gradually ruined himself. Persons of culture called him
Don Anastasio, or Tasio the Sage, while the great crowd of the ignorant knew him as Tasio the
Lunatic, on account of his peculiar ideas and his eccentric manner of dealing with others.

As we said before, the evening threatened to be stormy. The lightning flashed its pale rays
across the leaden sky, the air was heavy and the slight breeze excessively sultry. Tasio had
apparently already forgotten his beloved skull, and now he was smiling as he looked at the
dark clouds. Near the church he met a man wearing an alpaca coat, who carried in one hand a
large bundle of candles and in the other a tasseled cane, the emblem of his office as gobernadorcillo.

"You seem to be merry?" he greeted Tasio in Tagalog.

"Truly I am, señor capitan, I'm merry because I hope for something."

"Ah? What do you hope for?"

"The storm!"

"The storm? Are you thinking of taking a bath?" asked the gobernadorcillo in a jesting way
as he stared at the simple attire of the old man.

"A bath? That's not a bad idea, especially when one has just stumbled over some trash!" answered
Tasio in a similar, though somewhat more offensive tone, staring at the other's face. "But
I hope for something better."

"What, then?"

"Some thunderbolts that will kill people and burn down houses," returned the Sage seriously.

"Why don't you ask for the deluge at once?"

"We all deserve it, even you and I! You, señor gobernadorcillo, have there a bundle of tapers
that came from some Chinese shop, yet this now makes the tenth year that I have been proposing
to each new occupant of your office the purchase of lightning-rods. Every one laughs at me,
and buys bombs and rockets and pays for the ringing of bells. Even you yourself, on the day
after I made my proposition, ordered from the Chinese founders a bell in honor of St. Barbara,
[53] when science has shown that it is dangerous to ring the bells during a storm. Explain
to me why in the year '70, when lightning struck in Biñan, it hit the very church tower and
destroyed the clock and altar. What was the bell of St. Barbara doing then?"

At the moment there was a vivid flash. "Jesús, María, y José! Holy St. Barbara!" exclaimed
the gobernadorcillo, turning pale and crossing himself.

Tasio burst out into a loud laugh. "You are worthy of your patroness," he remarked dryly in
Spanish as he turned his back and went toward the church.

Inside, the sacristans were preparing a catafalque, bordered with candles placed in wooden
sockets. Two large tables had been placed one above the other and covered with black cloth
across which ran white stripes, with here and there a skull painted on it.

"Is that for the souls or for the candles?" inquired the old man, but noticing two boys, one
about ten and the other seven, he turned to them without awaiting an answer from the sacristans.

"Won't you come with me, boys?" he asked them. "Your mother has prepared a supper for you fit
for a curate."

"The senior sacristan will not let us leave until eight o'clock, sir," answered the larger
of the two boys. "I expect to get my pay to give it to our mother."

"Ah! And where are you going now?"

"To the belfry, sir, to ring the knell for the souls."

"Going to the belfry! Then take care! Don't go near the bells during the storm!"

Tasio then left the church, not without first bestowing a look of pity on the two boys, who
were climbing the stairway into the organ-loft. He passed his hand over his eyes, looked at
the sky again, and murmured, "Now I should be sorry if thunderbolts should fall." With his
head bowed in thought he started toward the outskirts of the town.

"Won't you come in?" invited a voice in Spanish from a window.

The Sage raised his head and saw a man of thirty or thirty-five years of age smiling at him.

"What are you reading there?" asked Tasio, pointing to a book the man held in his hand.

"A work just published: 'The Torments Suffered by the Blessed Souls in Purgatory,'" the other
answered with a smile.

"Man, man, man!" exclaimed the Sage in an altered tone as he entered the house. "The author
must be a very clever person."

Upon reaching the top of the stairway, he was cordially received by the master of the house,
Don Filipo Lino, and his young wife, Doña Teodora Viña. Don Filipo was the teniente-mayor of
the town and leader of one of the parties--the liberal faction, if it be possible to speak
so, and if there exist parties in the towns of the Philippines.

"Did you meet in the cemetery the son of the deceased Don Rafael, who has just returned from
Europe?"

"Yes, I saw him as he alighted from his carriage."

"They say that he went to look for his father's grave. It must have been a terrible blow."

The Sage shrugged his shoulders.

"Doesn't such a misfortune affect you?" asked the young wife.

"You know very well that I was one of the six who accompanied the body, and it was I who appealed
to the Captain-General when I saw that no one, not even the authorities, said anything about
such an outrage, although I always prefer to honor a good man in life rather than to worship
him after his death."

"Well?"

"But, madam, I am not a believer in hereditary monarchy. By reason of the Chinese blood which
I have received from my mother I believe a little like the Chinese: I honor the father on account
of the son and not the son on account of the father. I believe that each one should receive
the reward or punishment for his own deeds, not for those of another."

"Did you order a mass said for your dead wife, as I advised you yesterday?" asked the young
woman, changing the subject of conversation.

"No," answered the old man with a smile.

"What a pity!" she exclaimed with unfeigned regret.

"They say that until ten o'clock tomorrow the souls will wander at liberty, awaiting the prayers
of the living, and that during these days one mass is equivalent to five on other days of the
year, or even to six, as the curate said this morning."

"What! Does that mean that we have a period without paying, which we should take advantage of?"

"But, Doray," interrupted Don Filipo, "you know that Don Anastasio doesn't believe in purgatory."

"I don't believe in purgatory!" protested the old man, partly rising from his seat. "Even when
I know something of its history!"

"The history of purgatory!" exclaimed the couple, full of surprise. "Come, relate it to us."

"You don't know it and yet you order masses and talk about its torments? Well, as it has begun
to rain and threatens to continue, we shall have time to relieve the monotony," replied Tasio,
falling into a thoughtful mood.

Don Filipo closed the book which he held in his hand and Doray sat down at his side determined
not to believe anything that the old man was about to say.

The latter began in the following manner: "Purgatory existed long before Our Lord came into
the world and must have been located in the center of the earth, according to Padre Astete;
or somewhere near Cluny, according to the monk of whom Padre Girard tells us. But the location
is of least importance here. Now then, who were scorching in those fires that had been burning
from the beginning of the world? Its very ancient existence is proved by Christian philosophy,
which teaches that God has created nothing new since he rested."

"But it could have existed in potentia and not in actu," [54] observed Don Filipo.

"Very well! But yet I must answer that some knew of it and as existing in actu. One of these
was Zarathustra, or Zoroaster, who wrote part of the Zend-Avesta and founded a religion which
in some points resembles ours, and Zarathustra, according to the scholars, flourished at least
eight hundred years before Christ. I say 'at least,' since Gaffarel, after examining the testimony
of Plato, Xanthus of Lydia, Pliny, Hermippus, and Eudoxus, believes it to have been two thousand
five hundred years before our era. However that may be, it is certain that Zarathustra talked
of a kind of purgatory and showed ways of getting free from it. The living could redeem the
souls of those who died in sin by reciting passages from the Avesta and by doing good works,
but under the condition that the person offering the petitions should be a relative, up to
the fourth generation. The time for this occurred every year and lasted five days. Later, when
this belief had become fixed among the people, the priests of that religion saw in it a chance
of profit and so they exploited 'the deep and dark prison where remorse reigns,' as Zarathustra
called it. They declared that by the payment of a small coin it was possible to save a soul
from a year of torture, but as in that religion there were sins punishable by three hundred
to a thousand years of suffering, such as lying, faithlessness, failure to keep one's word,
and so on, it resulted that the rascals took in countless sums. Here you will observe something
like our purgatory, if you take into account the differences in the religions."

A vivid flash of lightning, followed by rolling thunder, caused Doray to start up and exclaim,
as she crossed herself: "Jesús, María, y José! I'm going to leave you, I'm going to burn some
sacred palm and light candles of penitence."

The rain began to fall in torrents. The Sage Tasio, watching the young woman leave, continued:
"Now that she is not here, we can consider this matter more rationally. Doray, even though
a little superstitious, is a good Catholic, and I don't care to root out the faith from her
heart. A pure and simple faith is as distinct from fanaticism as the flame from smoke or music
from discords: only the fools and the deaf confuse them. Between ourselves we can say that
the idea of purgatory is good, holy, and rational. It perpetuates the union of those who were
and those who are, leading thus to greater purity of life. The evil is in its abuse.

"But let us now see where Catholicism got this idea, which does not exist in the Old Testament
nor in the Gospels. Neither Moses nor Christ made the slightest mention of it, and the single
passage which is cited from Maccabees is insufficient. Besides, this book was declared apocryphal
by the Council of Laodicea and the holy Catholic Church accepted it only later. Neither have
the pagan religions anything like it. The oft-quoted passage in Virgil, Aliae panduntur inanes,
[55] which probably gave occasion for St. Gregory the Great to speak of drowned souls, and
to Dante for another narrative in his Divine Comedy, cannot have been the origin of this belief.
Neither the Brahmins, the Buddhists, nor the Egyptians, who may have given Rome her Charon
and her Avernus, had anything like this idea. I won't speak now of the religions of northern
Europe, for they were religions of warriors, bards, and hunters, and not of philosophers. While
they yet preserve their beliefs and even their rites under Christian forms, they were unable
to accompany the hordes in the spoliation of Rome or to seat themselves on the Capitoline;
the religions of the mists were dissipated by the southern sun. Now then, the early Christians
did not believe in a purgatory but died in the blissful confidence of shortly seeing God face
to face. Apparently the first fathers of the Church who mentioned it were St. Clement of Alexandria,
Origen, and St. Irenaeus, who were all perhaps influenced by Zarathustra's religion, which
still flourished and was widely spread throughout the East, since at every step we read reproaches
against Origen's Orientalism. St. Irenaeus proved its existence by the fact that Christ remained
'three days in the depths of the earth,' three days of purgatory, and deduced from this that
every soul must remain there until the resurrection of the body, although the 'Hodie mecum
eris in Paradiso' [56] seems to contradict it. St. Augustine also speaks of purgatory and,
if not affirming its existence, yet he did not believe it impossible, conjecturing that in
another existence there might continue the punishments that we receive in this life for our sins."

"The devil with St. Augustine!" ejaculated Don Filipo. "He wasn't satisfied with what we suffer
here but wished a continuance."

"Well, so it went" some believed it and others didn't. Although St. Gregory finally came to
admit it in his de quibusdam levibus culpis esse ante judicium purgatorius ignis credendus
est, [57] yet nothing definite was done until the year 1439, that is, eight centuries later,
when the Council of Florence declared that there must exist a purifying fire for the souls
of those who have died in the love of God but without having satisfied divine Justice. Lastly,
the Council of Trent under Pius IV in 1563, in the twenty-fifth session, issued the purgatorial
decree beginning Cura catholica ecclesia, Spiritu Santo edocta, wherein it deduces that, after
the office of the mass, the petitions of the living, their prayers, alms, and other pious works
are the surest means of freeing the souls. Nevertheless, the Protestants do not believe in
it nor do the Greek Fathers, since they reject any Biblical authority for it and say that our
responsibility ends with death, and that the 'Quodcumque ligaberis in terra,' [58] does not
mean 'usque ad purgatorium,' [59] but to this the answer can be made that since purgatory is
located in the center of the earth it fell naturally under the control of St. Peter. But I
should never get through if I had to relate all that has been said on the subject. Any day
that you wish to discuss the matter with me, come to my house and there we will consult the
books and talk freely and quietly.

"Now I must go. I don't understand why Christian piety permits robbery on this night--and you,
the authorities, allow it--and I fear for my books. If they should steal them to read I wouldn't
object, but I know that there are many who wish to burn them in order to do for me an act of
charity, and such charity, worthy of the Caliph Omar, is to be dreaded. Some believe that on
account of those books I am already damned--"

"But I suppose that you do believe in damnation?" asked Doray with a smile, as she appeared
carrying in a brazier the dry palm leaves, which gave off a peculiar smoke and an agreeable odor.

"I don't know, madam, what God will do with me," replied the old man thoughtfully. "When I
die I will commit myself to Him without fear and He may do with me what He wishes. But a thought
strikes me!"

"What thought is that?"

"If the only ones who can be saved are the Catholics, and of them only five per cent--as many
curates say--and as the Catholics form only a twelfth part of the population of the world--if
we believe what statistics show--it would result that after damning millions and millions of
men during the countless ages that passed before the Saviour came to the earth, after a Son
of God has died for us, it is now possible to save only five in every twelve hundred. That
cannot be so!

"What do you wish? Divine Justice, divine Purity--"

"Oh, but divine Justice and divine Purity saw the future before the creation," answered the
old man, as he rose shuddering. "Man is an accidental and not a necessary part of creation,
and that God cannot have created him, no indeed, only to make a few happy and condemn hundreds
to eternal misery, and all in a moment, for hereditary faults! No! If that be true, strangle
your baby son sleeping there! If such a belief were not a blasphemy against that God, who must
be the Highest Good, then the Phenician Moloch, which was appeased with human sacrifices and
innocent blood, and in whose belly were burned the babes torn from their mothers' breasts,
that bloody deity, that horrible divinity, would be by the side of Him a weak girl, a friend,
a mother of humanity!"

Horrified, the Lunatic--or the Sage--left the house and ran along the street in spite of the
rain and the darkness. A lurid flash, followed by frightful thunder and filling the air with
deadly currents, lighted the old man as he stretched his hand toward the sky and cried out:
"Thou protestest! I know that Thou art not cruel, I know that I must only name Thee Good!"

The flashes of lightning became more frequent and the storm increased in violence.

CHAPTER XV

The Sacristans

The thunder resounded, roar following close upon roar, each preceded' by a blinding flash of
zigzag lightning, so that it might have been said that God was writing his name in fire and
that the eternal arch of heaven was trembling with fear. The rain, whipped about in a different
direction each moment by the mournfully whistling wind, fell in torrents. With a voice full
of fear the bells sounded their sad supplication, and in the brief pauses between the roars
of the unchained elements tolled forth sorrowful peals, like plaintive groans.

On the second floor of the church tower were the two boys whom we saw talking to the Sage.
The younger, a child of seven years with large black eyes and a timid countenance, was huddling
close to his brother, a boy of ten, whom he greatly resembled in features, except that the
look on the elder's face was deeper and firmer.

Both were meanly dressed in clothes full of rents and patches. They sat upon a block of wood,
each holding the end of a rope which extended upward and was lost amid the shadows above. The
wind-driven rain reached them and snuffed the piece of candle burning dimly on the large round
stone that was used to furnish the thunder on Good Friday by being rolled around the gallery.

"Pull on the rope, Crispin, pull!" cried the elder to his little brother, who did as he was
told, so that from above was heard a faint peal, instantly drowned out by the reechoing thunder.

"Oh, if we were only at home now with mother," sighed the younger, as he gazed at his brother.
"There I shouldn't be afraid."

The elder did not answer; he was watching the melting wax of the candle, apparently lost in
thought.

"There no one would say that I stole," went on Crispin. "Mother wouldn't allow it. If she knew
that they whip me--"

The elder took his gaze from the flame, raised his head, and clutching the thick rope pulled
violently on it so that a sonorous peal of the bells was heard.

"Are we always going to live this way, brother?" continued Crispin. "I'd like to get sick at
home tomorrow, I'd like to fall into a long sickness so that mother might take care of me and
not let me come back to the convento. So I'd not be called a thief nor would they whip me.
And you too, brother, you must get sick with me."

"No," answered the older, "we should all die: mother of grief and we of hunger."

Crispin remained silent for a moment, then asked, "How much will you get this month?"

"Two pesos. They're fined me twice."

"Then pay what they say I've stolen, so that they won't call us thieves. Pay it, brother!"

"Are you crazy, Crispin? Mother wouldn't have anything to eat. The senior sacristan says that
you've stolen two gold pieces, and they're worth thirty-two pesos."

The little one counted on his fingers up to thirty-two. "Six hands and two fingers over and
each finger a peso!" he murmured thoughtfully. "And each peso, how many cuartos?"

"A hundred and sixty."

"A hundred and sixty cuartos? A hundred and sixty times a cuarto? Goodness! And how many are
a hundred and sixty?"

"Thirty-two hands," answered the older.

Crispin looked hard at his little hands. "Thirty-two hands," he repeated, "six hands and two
fingers over and each finger thirty-two hands and each finger a cuarto--goodness, what a lot
of cuartos! I could hardly count them in three days; and with them could be bought shoes for
our feet, a hat for my head when the sun shines hot, a big umbrella for the rain, and food,
and clothes for you and mother, and--" He became silent and thoughtful again.

"Now I'm sorry that I didn't steal!" he soon exclaimed.

"Crispin!" reproached his brother.

"Don't get angry! The curate has said that he'll beat me to death if the money doesn't appear,
and if I had stolen it I could make it appear. Anyhow, if I died you and mother would at least
have clothes. Oh, if I had only stolen it!"

The elder pulled on the rope in silence. After a time he replied with a sigh: "What I'm afraid
of is that mother will scold you when she knows about it."

"Do you think so?" asked the younger with astonishment. "You will tell her that they're whipped
me and I'll show the welts on my back and my torn pocket. I had only one cuarto, which was
given to me last Easter, but the curate took that away from me yesterday. I never saw a prettier
cuarto! No, mother won't believe it."

"If the curate says so--"

Crispin began to cry, murmuring between his sobs, "Then go home alone! I don't want to go.
Tell mother that I'm sick. I don't want to go."

"Crispin, don't cry!" pleaded the elder. "Mother won't believe it--don't cry! Old Tasio told
us that a fine supper is waiting for us."

"A fine supper! And I haven't eaten for a long time. They won't give me anything to eat until
the two gold pieces appear. But, if mother believes it? You must tell her that the senior sacristan
is a liar but that the curate believes him and that all of them are liars, that they say that
we're thieves because our father is a vagabond who--"

At that instant a head appeared at the top of the stairway leading down to the floor below,
and that head, like Medusa's, froze the words on the child's lips. It was a long, narrow head
covered with black hair, with blue glasses concealing the fact that one eye was sightless.
The senior sacristan was accustomed to appear thus without noise or warning of any kind. The
two brothers turned cold with fear.

"On you, Basilio, I impose a fine of two reals for not ringing the bells in time," he said
in a voice so hollow that his throat seemed to lack vocal chords. "You, Crispin, must stay
tonight, until what you stole reappears."

Crispin looked at his brother as if pleading for protection.

"But we already have permission--mother expects us at eight o'clock," objected Basilio timidly.

"Neither shall you go home at eight, you'll stay until ten."

"But, sir, after nine o'clock no one is allowed to be out and our house is far from here."

"Are you trying to give me orders?" growled the man irritably, as he caught Crispin by the
arm and started to drag him away.

"Oh, sir, it's been a week now since we're seen our mother," begged Basilio, catching hold
of his brother as if to defend him.

The senior sacristan struck his hand away and jerked at Crispin, who began to weep as he fell
to the floor, crying out to his brother, "Don't leave me, they're going to kill me!"

The sacristan gave no heed to this and dragged him on to the stairway. As they disappeared
among the shadows below Basilio stood speechless, listening to the sounds of his brother's
body striking against the steps. Then followed the sound of a blow and heartrending cries that
died away in the distance.

The boy stood on tiptoe, hardly breathing and listening fixedly, with his eyes unnaturally
wide and his fists clenched. "When shall I be strong enough to plow a field?" he muttered between
his teeth as he started below hastily. Upon reaching the organ-loft he paused to listen; the
voice of his brother was fast dying away in the distance and the cries of "Mother! Brother!"
were at last completely cut off by the sound of a closing door. Trembling and perspiring, he
paused for a moment with his fist in his mouth to keep down a cry of anguish. He let his gaze
wander about the dimly lighted church where an oil-lamp gave a ghostly light, revealing the
catafalque in the center. The doors were closed and fastened, and the windows had iron bars
on them. Suddenly he reascended the stairway to the place where the candle was burning and
then climbed up into the third floor of the belfry. After untying the ropes from the bell-clappers
he again descended. He was pale and his eyes glistened, but not with tears.

Meanwhile, the rain was gradually ceasing and the sky was clearing. Basilio knotted the ropes
together, tied one end to a rail of the balustrade, and without even remembering to put out
the light let himself down into the darkness outside. A few moments later voices were heard
on one of the streets of the town, two shots resounded, but no one seemed to be alarmed and
silence again reigned.

CHAPTER XVI

Sisa

Through the dark night the villagers slept. The families who had remembered their dead gave
themselves up to quiet and satisfied sleep, for they had recited their requiems, the novena
of the souls, and had burned many wax tapers before the sacred images. The rich and powerful
had discharged the duties their positions imposed upon them. On the following day they would
hear three masses said by each priest and would give two pesos for another, besides buying
a bull of indulgences for the dead. Truly, divine justice is not nearly so exacting as human.

But the poor and indigent who earn scarcely enough to keep themselves alive and who also have
to pay tribute to the petty officials, clerks, and soldiers, that they may be allowed to live
in peace, sleep not so tranquilly as gentle poets who have perhaps not felt the pinches of
want would have us believe. The poor are sad and thoughtful, for on that night, if they have
not recited many prayers, yet they have prayed much--with pain in their eyes and tears in their
hearts. They have not the novenas, nor do they know the responsories, versicles, and prayers
which the friars have composed for those who lack original ideas and feelings, nor do they
understand them. They pray in the language of their misery: their souls weep for them and for
those dead beings whose love was their wealth. Their lips may proffer the salutations, but
their minds cry out complaints, charged with lamentations. Wilt Thou be satisfied, O Thou who
blessedst poverty, and you, O suffering souls, with the simple prayers of the poor, offered
before a rude picture in the light of a dim wick, or do you perhaps desire wax tapers before
bleeding Christs and Virgins with small mouths and crystal eyes, and masses in Latin recited
mechanically by priests? And thou, Religion preached for suffering humanity, hast thou forgotten
thy mission of consoling the oppressed in their misery and of humiliating the powerful in their
pride? Hast thou now promises only for the rich, for those who, can pay thee?

The poor widow watches among the children who sleep at her side. She is thinking of the indulgences
that she ought to buy for the repose of the souls of her parents and of her dead husband. "A
peso," she says, "a peso is a week of happiness for my children, a week of laughter and joy,
my savings for a month, a dress for my daughter who is becoming a woman." "But it is necessary
that you put aside these worldly desires," says the voice that she heard in the pulpit, "it
is necessary that you make sacrifices." Yes, it is necessary. The Church does not gratuitously
save the beloved souls for you nor does it distribute indulgences without payment. You must
buy them, so tonight instead of sleeping you should work. Think of your daughter, so poorly
clothed! Fast, for heaven is dear! Decidedly, it seems that the poor enter not into heaven.
Such thoughts wander through the space enclosed between the rough mats spread out on the bamboo
floor and the ridge of the roof, from which hangs the hammock wherein the baby swings. The
infant's breathing is easy and peaceful, but from time to time he swallows and smacks his lips;
his hungry stomach, which is not satisfied with what his older brothers have given him, dreams
of eating.

The cicadas chant monotonously, mingling their ceaseless notes with the trills of the cricket
hidden in the grass, or the chirp of the little lizard which has come out in search of food,
while the big gekko, no longer fearing the water, disturbs the concert with its ill-omened
voice as it shows its head from out the hollow of the decayed tree-trunk.

The dogs howl mournfully in the streets and superstitious folk, hearing them, are convinced
that they see spirits and ghosts. But neither the dogs nor the other animals see the sorrows
of men--yet how many of these exist!

Distant from the town an hour's walk lives the mother of Basilio and Crispin. The wife of a
heartless man, she struggles to live for her sons, while her husband is a vagrant gamester
with whom her interviews are rare but always painful. He has gradually stripped her of her
few jewels to pay the cost of his vices, and when the suffering Sisa no longer had anything
that he might take to satisfy his whims, he had begun to maltreat her. Weak in character, with
more heart than intellect, she knew only how to love and to weep. Her husband was a god and
her sons were his angels, so he, knowing to what point he was loved and feared, conducted himself
like all false gods: daily he became more cruel, more inhuman, more wilful. Once when he had
appeared with his countenance gloomier than ever before, Sisa had consulted him about the plan
of making a sacristan of Basilio, and he had merely continued to stroke his game-cock, saying
neither yes nor no, only asking whether the boy would earn much money. She had not dared to
insist, but her needy situation and her desire that the boys should learn to read and write
in the town school forced her to carry out the plan. Still her husband had said nothing.

That night, between ten and eleven o'clock, when the stars were glittering in a sky now cleared
of all signs of the storm of the early evening, Sisa sat on a wooden bench watching some fagots
that smouldered upon the fireplace fashioned of rough pieces of natural rock. Upon a tripod,
or tunko, was a small pot of boiling rice and upon the red coals lay three little dried fishes
such as are sold at three for two cuartos. Her chin rested in the palm of her hand while she
gazed at the weak yellow glow peculiar to the cane, which burns rapidly and leaves embers that
quickly grow pale. A sad smile lighted up her face as she recalled a funny riddle about the
pot and the fire which Crispin had once propounded to her. The boy said: "The black man sat
down and the red man looked at him, a moment passed, and cock-a-doodle-doo rang forth."

Sisa was still young, and it was plain that at one time she had been pretty and attractive.
Her eyes, which, like her disposition, she had given to her sons, were beautiful, with long
lashes and a deep look. Her nose was regular and her pale lips curved pleasantly. She was what
the Tagalogs call kayumanguing-kaligátan; that is, her color was a clear, pure brown. In spite
of her youthfulness, pain and perhaps even hunger had begun to make hollow her pallid cheeks,
and if her abundant hair, in other times the delight and adornment of her person, was even
yet simply and neatly arranged, though without pins or combs, it was not from coquetry but
from habit.

Sisa had been for several days confined to the house sewing upon some work which had been ordered
for the earliest possible time. In order to earn the money, she had not attended mass that
morning, as it would have taken two hours at least to go to the town and return: poverty obliges
one to sin! She had finished the work and delivered it but had received only a promise of payment.
All that day she had been anticipating the pleasures of the evening, for she knew that her
sons were coming and she had intended to make them some presents. She had bought some small
fishes, picked the most beautiful tomatoes in her little garden, as she knew that Crispin was
very fond of them, and begged from a neighbor, old Tasio the Sage, who lived half a mile away,
some slices of dried wild boar's meat and a leg of wild duck, which Basilio especially liked.
Full of hope, she had cooked the whitest of rice, which she herself had gleaned from the threshing-floors.
It was indeed a curate's meal for the poor boys.

But by an unfortunate chance her husband came and ate the rice, the slices of wild boar's meat,
the duck leg, five of the little fishes, and the tomatoes. Sisa said nothing, although she
felt as if she herself were being eaten. His hunger at length appeased, he remembered to ask
for the boys. Then Sisa smiled happily and resolved that she would not eat that night, because
what remained was not enough for three. The father had asked for their sons and that for her
was better than eating.

Soon he picked up his game-cock and started away.

"Don't you want to see them?" she asked tremulously. "Old Tasio told me that they would be
a little late. Crispin now knows how to read and perhaps Basilio will bring his wages."

This last reason caused the husband to pause and waver, but his good angel triumphed. "In that
case keep a peso for me," he said as he went away.

Sisa wept bitterly, but the thought of her sons soon dried her tears. She cooked some more
rice and prepared the only three fishes that were left: each would have one and a half. "They'll
have good appetites," she mused, "the way is long and hungry stomachs have no heart."

So she sat, he ear strained to catch every sound, listening to the lightest footfalls: strong
and clear, Basilio; light and irregular, Crispin--thus she mused. The kalao called in the woods
several times after the rain had ceased, but still her sons did not come. She put the fishes
inside the pot to keep them warm and went to the threshold of the hut to look toward the road.
To keep herself company, she began to sing in a low voice, a voice usually so sweet and tender
that when her sons listened to her singing the kundíman they wept without knowing why, but
tonight it trembled and the notes were halting. She stopped singing and gazed earnestly into
the darkness, but no one was coming from the town--that noise was only the wind shaking the
raindrops from the wide banana leaves.

Suddenly a black dog appeared before her dragging something along the path. Sisa was frightened
but caught up a stone and threw it at the dog, which ran away howling mournfully. She was not
superstitious, but she had heard so much about presentiments and black dogs that terror seized
her. She shut the door hastily and sat down by the light. Night favors credulity and the imagination
peoples the air with specters. She tried to pray, to call upon the Virgin and upon God to watch
over her sons, especially her little Crispin. Then she forgot her prayers as her thoughts wandered
to think about them, to recall the features of each, those features that always wore a smile
for her both asleep and awake. Suddenly she felt her hair rise on her head and her eyes stared
wildly; illusion or reality, she saw Crispin standing by the fireplace, there where he was
wont to sit and prattle to her, but now he said nothing as he gazed at her with those large,
thoughtful eyes, and smiled.

"Mother, open the door! Open, mother!" cried the voice of Basilio from without.

Sisa shuddered violently and the vision disappeared.

CHAPTER XVII

Basilio

												La vida es sueño.

Basilio was scarcely inside when he staggered and fell into his mother's arms. An inexplicable
chill seized Sisa as she saw him enter alone. She wanted to speak but could make no sound;
she wanted to embrace her son but lacked the strength; to weep was impossible. At sight of
the blood which covered the boy's forehead she cried in a tone that seemed to come from a breaking
heart, "My sons!"

"Don't be afraid, mother," Basilio reassured her. "Crispin stayed at the convento."

"At the convento? He stayed at the convento? Is he alive?"

The boy raised his eyes to her. "Ah!" she sighed, passing from the depths of sorrow to the
heights of joy. She wept and embraced her son, covering his bloody forehead with kisses.

"Crispin is alive! You left him at the convento! But why are you wounded, my son? Have you
had a fall?" she inquired, as she examined him anxiously.

"The senior sacristan took Crispin away and told me that I could not leave until ten o'clock,
but it was already late and so I ran away. In the town the soldiers challenged me, I started
to run, they fired, and a bullet grazed my forehead. I was afraid they would arrest me and
beat me and make me scrub out the barracks, as they did with Pablo, who is still sick from it."

"My God, my God!" murmured his mother, shuddering. "Thou hast saved him!" Then while she sought
for bandages, water, vinegar, and a feather, she went on, "A finger's breadth more and they
would have killed you, they would have killed my boy! The civil-guards do not think of the
mothers."

"You must say that I fell from a tree so that no one will know they chased me," Basilio cautioned
her.

"Why did Crispin stay?" asked Sisa, after dressing her son's wound.

Basilio hesitated a few moments, then with his arms about her and their tears mingling, he
related little by little the story of the gold pieces, without speaking, however, of the tortures
they were inflicting upon his young brother.

"My good Crispin! To accuse my good Crispin! It's because we're poor and we poor people have
to endure everything!" murmured Sisa, staring through her tears at the light of the lamp, which
was now dying out from lack of oil. So they remained silent for a while.

"Haven't you had any supper yet? Here are rice and fish."

"I don't want anything, only a little water."

"Yes," answered his mother sadly, "I know that you don't like dried fish. I had prepared something
else, but your father came."

"Father came?" asked Basilio, instinctively examining the face and hands of his mother.

The son's questioning gaze pained Sisa's heart, for she understood it only too well, so she
added hastily: "He came and asked a lot about you and wanted to see you, and he was very hungry.
He said that if you continued to be so good he would come back to stay with us."

An exclamation of disgust from Basilio's contracted lips interrupted her. "Son!" she reproached
him.

"Forgive me, mother," he answered seriously. "But aren't we three better off--you, Crispin,
and I? You're crying--I haven't said anything."

Sisa sighed and asked, "Aren't you going to eat? Then let's go to sleep, for it's now very
late." She then closed up the hut and covered the few coals with ashes so that the fire would
not die out entirely, just as a man does with his inner feelings; he covers them with the ashes
of his life, which he calls indifference, so that they may not be deadened by daily contact
with his fellows.

Basilio murmured his prayers and lay down near his mother, who was upon her knees praying.
He felt hot and cold, he tried to close his eyes as he thought of his little brother who that
night had expected to sleep in his mother's lap and who now was probably trembling with terror
and weeping in some dark corner of the convento. His ears were again pierced with those cries
he had heard in the church tower. But wearied nature soon began to confuse his ideas and the
veil of sleep descended upon his eyes.

He saw a bedroom where two dim tapers burned. The curate, with a rattan whip in his hand, was
listening gloomily to something that the senior sacristan was telling him in a strange tongue
with horrible gestures. Crispin quailed and turned his tearful eyes in every direction as if
seeking some one or some hiding-place. The curate turned toward him and called to him irritably,
the rattan whistled. The child ran to hide himself behind the sacristan, who caught and held
him, thus exposing him to the curate's fury. The unfortunate boy fought, kicked, screamed,
threw himself on the floor and rolled about. He picked himself up, ran, slipped, fell, and
parried the blows with his hands, which, wounded, he hid quickly, all the time shrieking with
pain. Basilio saw him twist himself, strike the floor with his head, he saw and heard the rattan
whistle. In desperation his little brother rose. Mad with pain he threw himself upon his tormentor
and bit him on the hand. The curate gave a cry and dropped the rattan--the sacristan caught
up a heavy cane and struck the boy a blow on the head so that he fell stunned--the curate,
seeing him down, trampled him with his feet. But the child no longer defended himself nor did
he cry out; he rolled along the floor, a lifeless mass that left a damp track. [60]

Sisa's voice brought him back to reality. "What's the matter? Why are you crying?"

"I dreamed--O God!" exclaimed Basilio, sitting up, covered with perspiration. "It was a dream!
Tell me, mother, that it was only a dream! Only a dream!"

"What did you dream?"

The boy did not answer, but sat drying his tears and wiping away the perspiration. The hut
was in total darkness.

"A dream, a dream!" repeated Basilio in subdued tones.

"Tell me what you dreamed. I can't sleep," said his mother when he lay down again.

"Well," he said in a low voice, "I dreamed that we had gone to glean the rice-stalks--in a
field where there were many flowers--the women had baskets full of rice-stalks the men too
had baskets full of rice-stalks--and the children too--I don't remember any more, mother, I
don't remember the rest."

Sisa had no faith in dreams, so she did not insist.

"Mother, I've thought of a plan tonight," said Basilio after a few moments' silence.

"What is your plan?" she asked. Sisa was humble in everything, even with her own sons, trusting
their judgment more than her own.

"I don't want to be a sacristan any longer."

"What?"

"Listen, mother, to what I've been thinking about. Today there arrived from Spain the son of
the dead Don Rafael, and he will be a good man like his father. Well now, mother, tomorrow
you will get Crispin, collect my wages, and say that I will not be a sacristan any longer.
As soon as I get well I'll go to see Don Crisostomo and ask him to hire me as a herdsman of
his cattle and carabaos--I'm now big enough. Crispin can study with old Tasio, who does not
whip and who is a good man, even if the curate does not believe so. What have we to fear now
from the padre? Can he make us any poorer than we are? You may believe it, mother, the old
man is good. I've seen him often in the church when no one else was about, kneeling and praying,
believe it. So, mother, I'll stop being a sacristan. I earn but little and that little is taken
away from me in fines. Every one complains of the same thing. I'll be a herdsman and by performing
my tasks carefully I'll make my employer like me. Perhaps he'll let us milk a cow so that we
can drink milk--Crispin likes milk so much. Who can tell! Maybe they'll give us a little calf
if they see that I behave well and we'll take care of it and fatten it like our hen. I'll pick
fruits in the woods and sell them in the town along with the vegetables from our garden, so
we'll have money. I'll set snares and traps to catch birds and wild cats, [61] I'll fish in
the river, and when I'm bigger, I'll hunt. I'll be able also to cut firewood to sell or to
present to the owner of the cows, and so he'll be satisfied with us. When I'm able to plow,
I'll ask him to let me have a piece of land to plant in sugar-cane or corn and you won't have
to sew until midnight. We'll have new clothes for every fiesta, we'll eat meat and big fish,
we'll live free, seeing each other every day and eating together. Old Tasio says that Crispin
has a good head and so we'll send him to Manila to study. I'll support him by working hard.
Isn't that fine, mother? Perhaps he'll be a doctor, what do you say?"

"What can I say but yes?" said Sisa as she embraced her son. She noted, however, that in their
future the boy took no account of his father, and shed silent tears.

Basilio went on talking of his plans with the confidence of the years that see only what they
wish for. To everything Sisa said yes--everything appeared good.

Sleep again began to weigh down upon the tired eyelids of the boy, and this time Ole-Luk-Oie,
of whom Andersen tells us, spread over him his beautiful umbrella with its pleasing pictures.
Now he saw himself with his little brother as they picked guavas, alpay, and other fruits in
the woods; they clambered from branch to branch, light as butterflies; they penetrated into
the caves and saw the shining rocks; they bathed in the springs where the sand was gold-dust
and the stones like the jewels in the Virgin's crown. The little fishes sang and laughed, the
plants bent their branches toward them laden with golden fruit. Then he saw a bell hanging
in a tree with a long rope for ringing it; to the rope was tied a cow with a bird's nest between
her horns and Crispin was inside the bell.

Thus he went on dreaming, while his mother, who was not of his age and who had not run for
an hour, slept not.

CHAPTER XVIII

Souls in Torment

It was about seven o'clock in the morning when Fray Salvi finished celebrating his last mass,
having offered up three in the space of an hour. "The padre is ill," commented the pious women.
"He doesn't move about with his usual slowness and elegance of manner."

He took off his vestments without the least comment, without saying a word or looking at any
one. "Attention!" whispered the sacristans among themselves. "The devil's to pay! It's going
to rain fines, and all on account of those two brothers."

He left the sacristy to go up into the rectory, in the hallway of which there awaited him some
seven or eight women seated upon benches and a man who was pacing back and forth. Upon seeing
him approach, the women arose and one of them pressed forward to kiss his hand, but the holy
man made a sign of impatience that stopped her short.

"Can it be that you've lost a real, kuriput?" exclaimed the woman with a jesting laugh, offended
at such a reception. "Not to give his hand to me, Matron of the Sisterhood, Sister Rufa!" It
was an unheard-of proceeding.

"He didn't go into the confessional this morning," added Sister Sipa, a toothless old woman.
"I wanted to confess myself so as to receive communion and get the indulgences."

"Well, I'm sorry for you," commented a young woman with a frank face. "This week I earned three
plenary indulgences and dedicated them to the soul of my husband."

"Badly done, Sister Juana," said the offended Rufa. "One plenary indulgence was enough to get
him out of purgatory. You ought not to squander the holy indulgences. Do as I do."

"I thought, so many more the better," answered the simple Sister Juana, smiling. "But tell
me what you do."

Sister Rufa did not answer at once. First, she asked for a buyo and chewed at it, gazed at
her audience, which was listening attentively, then spat to one side and commenced, chewing
at the buyo meanwhile: "I don't misspend one holy day! Since I've belonged to the Sisterhood
I've earned four hundred and fifty-seven plenary indulgences, seven hundred sixty thousand
five hundred and ninety-eight years of indulgence. I set down all that I earn, for I like to
have clean accounts. I don't want to cheat or be cheated."

Here Sister Rufa paused to give more attention to her chewing. The women gazed at her in admiration,
but the man who was pacing back and forth remarked with some disdain, "Well, this year I've
gained four plenary indulgences more than you have, Sister Rufa, and a hundred years more,
and that without praying much either."

"More than I? More than six hundred and eighty-nine plenary indulgences or nine hundred ninety-four
thousand eight hundred and fifty-six years?" queried Rufa, somewhat disgruntled.

"That's it, eight indulgences and a hundred fifteen years more and a few months over," answered
the man, from whose neck hung soiled scapularies and rosaries.

"That's not strange!" admitted Rufa, at last admitting defeat. "You're an expert, the best
in the province."

The flattered man smiled and continued, "It isn't so wonderful that I earn more than you do.
Why, I can almost say that even when sleeping I earn indulgences."

"And what do you do with them, sir?" asked four or five voices at the same time.

"Pish!" answered the man with a gesture of proud disdain. "I have them to throw away!"

"But in that I can't commend you, sir," protested Rufa. "You'll go to purgatory for wasting
the indulgences. You know very well that for every idle word one must suffer forty days in
fire, according to the curate; for every span of thread uselessly wasted, sixty days; and for
every drop of water spilled, twenty. You'll go to purgatory."

"Well, I'll know how to get out," answered Brother Pedro with sublime confidence. "How many
souls have I saved from the flames! How many saints have I made! Besides, even in articulo
mortis I can still earn, if I wish, at least seven plenary indulgences and shall be able to
save others as I die." So saying, he strode proudly away.

Sister Rufa turned to the others: "Nevertheless, you must do as I do, for I don't lose a single
day and I keep my accounts well. I don't want to cheat or be cheated."

"Well, what do you do?" asked Juana.

"You must imitate what I do. For example, suppose I earn a year of indulgence: I set it down
in my account-book and say, 'Most Blessed Father and Lord St. Dominic, please see if there
is anybody in purgatory who needs exactly a year--neither a day more nor a day less.' Then
I play heads and tails: if it comes heads, no; if tails, yes. Let's suppose that it comes tails,
then I write down paid; if it comes heads, then I keep the indulgence. In this way I arrange
groups of a hundred years each, of which I keep a careful account. It's a pity that we can't
do with them as with money--put them out at interest, for in that way we should be able to
save more souls. Believe me, and do as I do."

"Well, I do it a better way," remarked Sister Sipa.

"What? Better?" demanded the astonished Rufa. "That can't be! My system can't be improved upon!"

"Listen a moment and you'll be convinced, Sister," said old Sipa in a tone of vexation.

"How is it? Let's hear!" exclaimed the others.

After coughing ceremoniously the old woman began with great care: "You know very well that
by saying the Bendita sea tu pureza and the Señor mío Jesucristo, Padre dulcísimo por el gozo,
ten years are gained for each letter--"

"Twenty!" "No, less!" "Five!" interrupted several voices.

"A few years more or less make no difference. Now, when a servant breaks a plate, a glass,
or a cup, I make him pick up the pieces; and for every scrap, even the very smallest, he has
to recite for me one of those prayers. The indulgences that I earn in this way I devote to
the souls. Every one in my house, except the cats, understands this system."

"But those indulgences are earned by the servants and not by you, Sister Sipa," objected Rufa.

"And my cups and plates, who pays for them? The servants are glad to pay for them in that way
and it suits me also. I never resort to blows, only sometimes a pinch, or a whack on the head."

"I'm going to do as you do!" "I'll do the same!" "And I!" exclaimed the women.

"But suppose the plate is only broken into two or three pieces, then you earn very few," observed
the obstinate Rufa.

"Abá!" answered old Sipa. "I make them recite the prayers anyhow. Then I glue the pieces together
again and so lose nothing."

Sister Rufa had no more objections left.

"Allow me to ask about a doubt of mine," said young Juana timidly. "You ladies understand so
well these matters of heaven, purgatory, and hell, while I confess that I'm ignorant. Often
I find in the novenas and other books this direction: three paternosters, three Ave Marias,
and three Gloria Patris--"

"Yes, well?"

"Now I want to know how they should be recited: whether three paternosters in succession, three
Ave Marias in succession, and three Gloria Patris in succession; or a paternoster, an Ave Maria,
and a Gloria Patri together, three times?"

"This way: a paternoster three times--"

"Pardon me, Sister Sipa," interrupted Rufa, "they must be recited in the other way. You mustn't
mix up males and females. The paternosters are males, the Ave Marias are females, and the Gloria
Patris are the children."

"Eh? Excuse me, Sister Rufa: paternoster, Ave Maria, and Gloria are like rice, meat, and sauce--a
mouthful for the saints--"

"You're wrong! You'll see, for you who pray that way will never get what you ask for."

"And you who pray the other way won't get anything from your novenas," replied old Sipa.

"Who won't?" asked Rufa, rising. "A short time ago I lost a little pig, I prayed to St. Anthony
and found it, and then I sold it for a good price. Abá!"

"Yes? Then that's why one of your neighbors was saying that you sold a pig of hers."

"Who? The shameless one! Perhaps I'm like you--"

Here the expert had to interfere to restore peace, for no one was thinking any more about paternosters--the
talk was all about pigs. "Come, come, there mustn't be any quarrel over a pig, Sisters! The
Holy Scriptures give us an example to follow. The heretics and Protestants didn't quarrel with
Our Lord for driving into the water a herd of swine that belonged to them, and we that are
Christians and besides, Brethren of the Holy Rosary, shall we have hard words on account of
a little pig! What would our rivals, the Tertiary Brethren, say?"

All became silent before such wisdom, at the same time fearing what the Tertiary Brethren might
say. The expert, well satisfied with such acquiescence, changed his tone and continued: "Soon
the curate will send for us. We must tell him which preacher we've chosen of the three that
he suggested yesterday, whether Padre Damaso, Padre Martin, or the coadjutor. I don't know
whether the Tertiary Brethren have yet made any choice, so we must decide."

"The coadjutor," murmured Juana timidly.

"Ahem! The coadjutor doesn't know how to preach," declared Sipa. "Padre Martin is better."

"Padre Martin!" exclaimed another disdainfully. "He hasn't any voice. Padre Damaso would be
better."

"That's right!" cried Rufa. "Padre Damaso surely does know how to preach! He looks like a comedian!"

"But we don't understand him," murmured Juana.

"Because he's very deep! And as he preaches well--"

This speech was interrupted by the arrival of Sisa, who was carrying a basket on her head.
She saluted the Sisters and went on up the stairway.

"She's going in! Let's go in too!" they exclaimed. Sisa felt her heart beating violently as
she ascended the stairs. She did not know just what to say to the padre to placate his wrath
or what reasons she could advance in defense of her son. That morning at the first flush of
dawn she had gone into her garden to pick the choicest vegetables, which she placed in a basket
among banana-leaves and flowers; then she had looked along the bank of the river for the pakó
which she knew the curate liked for salads. Putting on her best clothes and without awakening
her son, she had set out for the town with the basket on her head. As she went up the stairway
she, tried to make as little noise as possible and listened attentively in the hope that she
might hear a fresh, childish voice, so well known to her. But she heard nothing nor did she
meet any one as she made her way to the kitchen. There she looked into all the corners. The
servants and sacristans received her coldly, scarcely acknowledging her greeting.

"Where can I put these vegetables?" she asked, not taking any offense at their coldness.

"There, anywhere!" growled the cook, hardly looking at her as he busied himself in picking
the feathers from a capon.

With great care Sisa arranged the vegetables and the salad leaves on the table, placing the
flowers above them. Smiling, she then addressed one of the servants, who seemed to be more
approachable than the cook: "May I speak with the padre?"

"He's sick," was the whispered answer.

"And Crispin? Do you know if he is in the sacristy?" The servant looked surprised and wrinkled
his eyebrows. "Crispin? Isn't he at your house? Do you mean to deny it?"

"Basilio is at home, but Crispin stayed here," answered Sisa, "and I want to see him."

"Yes, he stayed, but afterwards he ran away, after stealing a lot of things. Early this morning
the curate ordered me to go and report it to the Civil Guard. They must have gone to your house
already to hunt for the boys."

Sisa covered her ears and opened her mouth to speak, but her lips moved without giving out
any sound.

"A pretty pair of sons you have!" exclaimed the cook. "It's plain that you're a faithful wife,
the sons are so like the father. Take care that the younger doesn't surpass him."

Sisa broke out into bitter weeping and let herself fall upon a bench.

"Don't cry here!" yelled the cook. "Don't you know that the padre's sick? Get out in the street
and cry!"

The unfortunate mother was almost shoved down the stairway at the very time when the Sisters
were coming down, complaining and making conjectures about the curate's illness, so she hid
her face in her pañuelo and suppressed the sounds of her grief. Upon reaching the street she
looked about uncertainly for a moment and then, as if having reached a decision, walked rapidly
away.

CHAPTER XIX

A Schoolmaster's Difficulties

                El vulgo es necio y pues lo paga, es justo
                Hablarle en necio para darle el gusto. [62]

                                                       LOPE DE VEGA.

The mountain-encircled lake slept peacefully with that hypocrisy of the elements which gave
no hint of how its waters had the night before responded to the fury of the storm. As the first
reflections of light awoke on its surface the phosphorescent spirits, there were outlined in
the distance, almost on the horizon, the gray silhouettes of the little bankas of the fishermen
who were taking in their nets and of the larger craft spreading their sails. Two men dressed
in deep mourning stood gazing at the water from a little elevation: one was Ibarra and the
other a youth of humble aspect and melancholy features.

"This is the place," the latter was saying. "From here your father's body was thrown into the
water. Here's where the grave-digger brought Lieutenant Guevara and me."

Ibarra warmly grasped the hand of the young man, who went on: "You have no occasion to thank
me. I owed many favors to your father, and the only thing that I could do for him was to accompany
his body to the grave. I came here without knowing any one, without recommendation, and having
neither name nor fortune, just as at present. My predecessor had abandoned the school to engage
in the tobacco trade. Your father protected me, secured me a house, and furnished whatever
was necessary for running the school. He used to visit the classes and distribute pictures
among the poor but studious children, as well as provide them with books and paper. But this,
like all good things, lasted only a little while."

Ibarra took off his hat and seemed to be praying for a time. Then he turned to his companion:
"Did you say that my father helped the poor children? And now?"

"Now they get along as well as possible and write when they can," answered the youth.

"What is the reason?"

"The reason lies in their torn camisas and their downcast eyes."

"How many pupils have you now?" asked Ibarra with interest, after a pause.

"More than two hundred on the roll but only about twenty-five in actual attendance."

"How does that happen?"

The schoolmaster smiled sadly as he answered, "To tell you the reasons would make a long and
tiresome story."

"Don't attribute my question to idle curiosity," replied Ibarra gravely, while he stared at
the distant horizon. "I've thought better of it and believe that to carry out my father's ideas
will be more fitting than to weep for him, and far better than to revenge him. Sacred nature
has become his grave, and his enemies were the people and a priest. The former I pardon on
account of their ignorance and the latter because I wish that Religion, which elevated society,
should be respected. I wish to be inspired with the spirit of him who gave me life and therefore
desire to know about the obstacles encountered here in educational work."

"The country will bless your memory, sir," said the schoolmaster, "if you carry out the beautiful
plans of your dead father! You wish to know the obstacles which the progress of education meets?
Well then, under present circumstances, without substantial aid education will never amount
to much; in the very first place because, even when we have the pupils, lack of suitable means,
and other things that attract them more, kill off their interest. It is said that in Germany
a peasant's son studies for eight years in the town school, but who here would spend half that
time when such poor results are to be obtained? They read, write, and memorize selections,
and sometimes whole books, in Spanish, without understanding a single word. [63] What benefit
does our country child get from the school?"

"And why have you, who see the evil, not thought of remedying it?"

The schoolmaster shook his head sadly. "A poor teacher struggles not only against prejudices
but also against certain influences. First, it would be necessary to have a suitable place
and not to do as I must at present--hold the classes under the convento by the side of the
padre's carriage. There the children, who like to read aloud, very naturally disturb the padre,
and he often comes down, nervous, especially when he has his attacks, yells at them, and even
insults me at times. You know that no one can either teach or learn under such circumstances,
for the child will not respect his teacher when he sees him abused without standing up for
his rights. In order to be heeded and to maintain his authority the teacher needs prestige,
reputation, moral strength, and some freedom of action.

"Now let me recount to you even sadder details. I have wished to introduce reforms and have
been laughed at. In order to remedy the evil of which I just spoke to you, I tried to teach
Spanish to the children because, in addition to the fact that the government so orders, I thought
also that it would be of advantage for everybody. I used the simplest method of words and phrases
without paying any attention to long rules, expecting to teach them grammar when they should
understand the language. At the end of a few weeks some of the brightest were almost able to
understand me and could use a few phrases."

The schoolmaster paused and seemed to hesitate, then, as if making a resolution, he went on:
"I must not be ashamed of the story of my wrongs, for any one in my place would have acted
the same as I did. As I said, it was a good beginning, but a few days afterwards Padre Damaso,
who was the curate then, sent for me by the senior sacristan. Knowing his disposition and fearing
to make him wait, I went upstairs at once, saluted him, and wished him good-morning in Spanish.
His only greeting had been to put out his hand for me to kiss, but at this he drew it back
and without answering me began to laugh loud and mockingly. I was very much embarrassed, as
the senior sacristan was present. At the moment I didn't know just what to say, for the curate
continued his laughter and I stood staring at him. Then I began to get impatient and saw that
I was about to do something indiscreet, since to be a good Christian and to preserve one's
dignity are not incompatible. I was going to put a question to him when suddenly, passing from
ridicule to insult, he said sarcastically, 'So it's buenos dins, eh? Buenos dias! How nice
that you know how to talk Spanish!' Then again he broke out into laughter."

Ibarra was unable to repress a smile.

"You smile," continued the schoolmaster, following Ibarra's example, "but I must confess that
at the time I had very little desire to laugh. I was still standing--I felt the blood rush
to my head and lightning seemed to flash through my brain. The curate I saw far, far away.
I advanced to reply to him without knowing just what I was going to say, but the senior sacristan
put himself between us. Padre Damaso arose and said to me in Tagalog: 'Don't try to shine in
borrowed finery. Be content to talk your own dialect and don't spoil Spanish, which isn't meant
for you. Do you know the teacher Ciruela? [64] Well, Ciruela was a teacher who didn't know
how to read, and he had a school.' I wanted to detain him, but he went into his bedroom and
slammed the door.

"What was I to do with only my meager salary, to collect which I have to get the curate's approval
and make a trip to the capital of the province, what could I do against him, the foremost religious
and political power in the town, backed up by his Order, feared by the government, rich, powerful,
sought after and listened to, always believed and heeded by everybody? Although he insulted
me, I had to remain silent, for if I replied he would have had me removed from my position,
by which I should lose all hope in my chosen profession. Nor would the cause of education gain
anything, but the opposite, for everybody would take the curate's side, they would curse me
and call me presumptuous, proud, vain, a bad Christian, uncultured, and if not those things,
then anti-Spanish and a filibuster. Of a schoolmaster neither learning nor zeal is expected;
resignation, humility, and inaction only are asked. May God pardon me if I have gone against
my conscience and my judgement, but I was born in this country, I have to live, I have a mother,
so I have abandoned myself to my fate like a corpse tossed about by the waves."

"Did this difficulty discourage you for all time? Have you lived so since?"

"Would that it had been a warning to me! If only my troubles had been limited to that! It is
true that from that time I began to dislike my profession and thought of seeking some other
occupation, as my predecessor had done, because any work that is done in disgust and shame
is a kind of martyrdom and because every day the school recalled the insult to my mind, causing
me hours of great bitterness. But what was I to do? I could not undeceive my mother, I had
to say to her that her three years of sacrifice to give me this profession now constituted
my happiness. It is necessary to make her believe that this profession is most honorable, the
work delightful, the way strewn with flowers, that the performance of my duties brings me only
friendship, that the people respect me and show me every consideration. By doing otherwise,
without ceasing to be unhappy myself, I should have caused more sorrow, which besides being
useless would also be a sin. I stayed on, therefore, and tried not to feel discouraged. I tried
to struggle on."

Here he paused for a while, then resumed: "From the day on which I was so grossly insulted
I began to examine myself and I found that I was in fact very ignorant. I applied myself day
and night to the study of Spanish and whatever concerned my profession. The old Sage lent me
some books, and I read and pondered over everything that I could get hold of. With the new
ideas that I have been acquiring in one place and another my point of view has changed and
I have seen many things under a different aspect from what they had appeared to me before.
I saw error where before I had seen only truth, and truth in many things where I had formerly
seen only error. Corporal punishment, for example, which from time immemorial has been the
distinctive feature in the schools and which has heretofore been considered as the only efficacious
means of making pupils learn--so we have been accustomed to believe--soon appeared to me to
be a great hindrance rather than in any way an aid to the child's progress. I became convinced
that it was impossible to use one's mind properly when blows, or similar punishment, were in
prospect. Fear and terror disturb the most serene, and a child's imagination, besides being
very lively, is also very impressionable. As it is on the brain that ideas are impressed, it
is necessary that there be both inner and outer calm, that there be serenity of spirit, physical
and moral repose, and willingness, so I thought that before everything else I should cultivate
in the children confidence, assurance, and some personal pride. Moreover, I comprehended that
the daily sight of floggings destroyed kindness in their hearts and deadened all sense of dignity,
which is such a powerful lever in the world. At the same time it caused them to lose their
sense of shame, which is a difficult thing to restore. I have also observed that when one pupil
is flogged, he gets comfort from the fact that the others are treated in the same way, and
that he smiles with satisfaction upon hearing the wails of the others. As for the person who
does the flogging, while at first he may do it with repugnance, he soon becomes hardened to
it and even takes delight in his gloomy task. The past filled me with horror, so I wanted to
save the present by modifying the old system. I endeavored to make study a thing of love and
joy, I wished to make the primer not a black book bathed in the tears of childhood but a friend
who was going to reveal wonderful secrets, and of the schoolroom not a place of sorrows but
a scene of intellectual refreshment. So, little by little, I abolished corporal punishment,
taking the instruments of it entirely away from the school and replacing them with emulation
and personal pride. If one was careless about his lesson, I charged it to lack of desire and
never to lack of capacity. I made them think that they were more capable than they really were,
which urged them on to study just as any confidence leads to notable achievements. At first
it seemed that the change of method was impracticable; many ceased their studies, but I persisted
and observed that little by little their minds were being elevated and that more children came,
that they came with more regularity, and that he who was praised in the presence of the others
studied with double diligence on the next day.

"It soon became known throughout the town that I did not whip the children. The curate sent
for me, and fearing another scene I greeted him curtly in Tagalog. On this occasion he was
very serious with me. He said that I was exposing the children to destruction, that I was wasting
time, that I was not fulfilling my duties, that the father who spared the rod was spoiling
the child--according to the Holy Ghost--that learning enters with blood, and so on. He quoted
to me sayings of barbarous times just as if it were enough that a thing had been said by the
ancients to make it indisputable; according to which we ought to believe that there really
existed those monsters which in past ages were imaged and sculptured in the palaces and temples.
Finally, he charged me to be more careful and to return to the old system, otherwise he would
make unfavorable report about me to the alcalde of the province. Nor was this the end of my
troubles. A few days afterward some of the parents of the children presented themselves under
the convento and I had to call to my aid all my patience and resignation. They began by reminding
me of former times when teachers had character and taught as their grandfathers had. 'Those
indeed were the times of the wise men,' they declared, 'they whipped, and straightened the
bent tree. They were not boys but old men of experience, gray-haired and severe. Don Catalino,
king of them all and founder of this very school, used to administer no less than twenty-five
blows and as a result his pupils became wise men and priests. Ah, the old people were worth
more than we ourselves, yes, sir, more than we ourselves!' Some did not content themselves
with such indirect rudeness, but told me plainly that if I continued my system their children
would learn nothing and that they would be obliged to take them from the school It was useless
to argue with them, for as a young man they thought me incapable of sound judgment. What would
I not have given for some gray hairs! They cited the authority of the curate, of this one and
that one, and even called attention to themselves, saying that if it had not been for the whippings
they had received from their teachers they would never have learned anything. Only a few persons
showed any sympathy to sweeten for me the bitterness of such a disillusioning.

"In view of all this I had to give up my system, which, after so much toil, was just beginning
to produce results. In desperation I carried the whips bank to the school the next day and
began the barbarous practice again. Serenity disappeared and sadness reigned in the faces of
the children, who had just begun to care for me, and who were my only kindred and friends.
Although I tried to spare the whippings and to administer them with all the moderation possible,
yet the children felt the change keenly, they became discouraged and wept bitterly. It touched
my heart, and even though in my own mind I was vexed with the stupid parents, still I was unable
to take any spite out on those innocent victims of their parents' prejudices. Their tears burned
me, my heart seemed bursting from my breast, and that day I left the school before closing-time
to go home and weep alone. Perhaps my sensitiveness may seem strange to you, but if you had
been in my place you would understand it. Old Don Anastasio said to me, 'So the parents want
floggings? Why not inflict them on themselves?' As a result of it all I became sick." Ibarra
was listening thoughtfully.

"Scarcely had I recovered when I returned to the school to find the number of my pupils reduced
to a fifth. The better ones had run away upon the return to the old system, and of those who
remained--mostly those who came to school to escape work at home--not one showed any joy, not
one congratulated me on my recovery. It would have been the same to them whether I got well
or not, or they might have preferred that I continue sick since my substitute, although he
whipped them more, rarely went to the school. My other pupils, those whose parents had obliged
them to attend school, had gone to other places. Their parents blamed me for having spoiled
them and heaped reproaches on me for it. One, however, the son of a country woman who visited
me during my illness, had not returned on account of having been made a sacristan, and the
senior sacristan says that the sacristans must not attend school: they would be dismissed."

"Were you resigned in looking after your new pupils?" asked Ibarra.

"What else could I do?" was the queried reply. "Nevertheless, during my illness many things
had happened, among them a change of curates, so I took new hope and made another attempt to
the end that the children should not lose all their time and should, in so far as possible,
get some benefit from the floggings, that such things might at least have some good result
for them. I pondered over the matter, as I wished that even if they could not love me, by getting
something useful from me, they might remember me with less bitterness. You know that in nearly
all the schools the books are in Spanish, with the exception of the catechism in Tagalog, which
varies according to the religious order to which the curate belongs. These books are generally
novenas, canticles, and the Catechism of Padre Astete, [65] from which they learn about as
much piety as they would from the books of heretics. Seeing the impossibility of teaching the
pupils in Spanish or of translating so many books, I tried to substitute short passages from
useful works in Tagalog, such as the Treatise on Manners by Hortensio y Feliza, some manuals
of Agriculture, and so forth. Sometimes I would myself translate simple works, such as Padre
Barranera's History of the Philippines, which I then dictated to the children, with at times
a few observations of my own, so that they might make note-books. As I had no maps for teaching
geography, I copied one of the province that I saw at the capital and with this and the tiles
of the floor I gave them some idea of the country. This time it was the women who got excited.
The men contented themselves with smiling, as they saw in it only one of my vagaries. The new
curate sent for me, and while he did not reprimand me, yet he said that I should first take
care of religion, that before learning such things the children must pass an examination to
show that they had memorized the mysteries, the canticles, and the catechism of Christian Doctrine.

"So then, I am now working to the end that the children become changed into parrots and know
by heart so many things of which they do not understand a single word. Many of them now know
the mysteries and the canticles, but I fear that my efforts will come to grief with the Catechism
of Padre Astete, since the greater part of the pupils do not distinguish between the questions
and the answers, nor do they understand what either may mean. Thus we shall die, thus those
unborn will do, while in Europe they will talk of progress."

"Let's not be so pessimistic," said Ibarra. "The teniente-mayor has sent me an invitation to
attend a meeting in the town hall. Who knows but that there you may find an answer to your
questions?"

The schoolmaster shook his head in doubt as he answered: "You'll see how the plan of which
they talked to me meets the same fate as mine has. But yet, let us see!"

CHAPTER XX

The Meeting in the Town Hall

The hall was about twelve to fifteen meters long by eight to ten wide. Its whitewashed walls
were covered with drawings in charcoal, more or less ugly and obscene, with inscriptions to
complete their meanings. Stacked neatly against the wall in one corner were to be seen about
a dozen old flint-locks among rusty swords and talibons, the armament of the cuadrilleros.
[66] At one end of the hall there hung, half hidden by soiled red curtains, a picture of his
Majesty, the King of Spain. Underneath this picture, upon a wooden platform, an old chair spread
out its broken arms. In front of the chair was a wooden table spotted with ink stains and whittled
and carved with inscriptions and initials like the tables in the German taverns frequented
by students. Benches and broken chairs completed the furniture.

This is the hall of council, of judgment, and of torture, wherein are now gathered the officials
of the town and its dependent villages. The faction of old men does not mix with that of the
youths, for they are mutually hostile. They represent respectively the conservative and the
liberal parties, save that their disputes assume in the towns an extreme character.

"The conduct of the gobernadorcillo fills me with distrust," Don Filipo, the teniente-mayor
and leader of the liberal faction, was saying to his friends. "It was a deep-laid scheme, this
thing of putting off the discussion of expenses until the eleventh hour. Remember that we have
scarcely eleven days left."

"And he has staved at the convento to hold a conference with the curate, who is sick," observed
one of the youths.

"It doesn't matter," remarked another. "We have everything prepared. Just so the plan of the
old men doesn't receive a majority--"

"I don't believe it will," interrupted Don Filipo, "as I shall present the plan of the old
men myself!"

"What! What are you saying?" asked his surprised hearers.

"I said that if I speak first I shall present the plan of our rivals."

"But what about our plan?"

"I shall leave it to you to present ours," answered Don Filipo with a smile, turning toward
a youthful cabeza de barangay. [67] "You will propose it after I have been defeated."

"We don't understand you, sir," said his hearers, staring at him with doubtful looks.

"Listen," continued the liberal leader in a low voice to several near him. "This morning I
met old Tasio and the old man said to me: 'Your rivals hate you more than they do your ideas.
Do you wish that a thing shall not be done? Then propose it yourself, and though it were more
useful than a miter, it would be rejected. Once they have defeated you, have the least forward
person in the whole gathering propose what you want, and your rivals, in order to humiliate
you, will accept it.' But keep quiet about it."

"But--"

"So I will propose the plan of our rivals and exaggerate it to the point of making it ridiculous.
Ah, here come Señor Ibarra and the schoolmaster."

These two young men saluted each of the groups without joining either. A few moments later
the gobernadorcillo, the very same individual whom we saw yesterday carrying a bundle of candles,
entered with a look of disgust on his face. Upon his entrance the murmurs ceased, every one
sat down, and silence was gradually established, as he took his seat under the picture of the
King, coughed four or five times, rubbed his hand over his face and head, rested his elbows
on the table, then withdrew them, coughed once more, and then the whole thing over again.

"Gentlemen," he at last began in an unsteady voice, "I have been so bold as to call you together
here for this meeting--ahem! Ahem! We have to celebrate the fiesta of our patron saint, San
Diego, on the twelfth of this month--ahem!--today is the second--ahem! Ahem!" At this point
a slow, dry cough cut off his speech.

A man of proud bearing, apparently about forty years of age, then arose from the bench of the
elders. He was the rich Capitan Basilio, the direct contrast of Don Rafael, Ibarra's father.
He was a man who maintained that after the death of St. Thomas Aquinas the world had made no
more progress, and that since St. John Lateran had left it, humanity had been retrograding.

"Gentlemen, allow me to speak a few words about such an interesting matter," he began. "I speak
first even though there are others here present who have more right to do so than I have, but
I speak first because in these matters it seems to me that by speaking first one does not take
the first place--no more than that by speaking last does one become the least. Besides, the
things that I have to say are of such importance that they should not be put off or last spoken
of, and accordingly I wish to speak first in order to give them due weight. So you will allow
me to speak first in this meeting where I see so many notable persons, such as the present
señor capitan, the former capitan; my distinguished friend, Don Valentin, a former capitan;
the friend of my infancy, Don Julio; our celebrated captain of cuadrilleros, Don Melchor; and
many other personages, whom, for the sake of brevity, I must omit to enumerate--all of whom
you see present here. I beg of you that I may be allowed a few words before any one else speaks.
Have I the good fortune to see my humble request granted by the meeting?"

Here the orator with a faint smile inclined his head respectfully. "Go on, you have our undivided
attention!" said the notables alluded to and some others who considered Capitan Basilio a great
orator. The elders coughed in a satisfied way and rubbed their hands. After wiping the perspiration
from his brow with a silk handkerchief, he then proceeded:

"Now that you have been so kind and complaisant with my humble self as to grant me the use
of a few words before any one else of those here present, I shall take advantage of this permission,
so generously granted, and shall talk. In imagination I fancy myself in the midst of the august
Roman senate, senatus populusque romanus, as was said in those happy days which, unfortunately
for humanity, will nevermore return. I propose to the Patres Conscripti, as the learned Cicero
would say if he were in my place, I propose, in view of the short time left, and time is money
as Solomon said, that concerning this important matter each one set forth his opinion clearly,
briefly, and simply."

Satisfied with himself and flattered by the attention in the hall, the orator took his seat,
not without first casting a glance of superiority toward Ibarra, who was seated in a corner,
and a significant look at his friends as if to say, "Aha! Haven't I spoken well?" His friends
reflected both of these expressions by staring at the youths as though to make them die of envy.

"Now any one may speak who wishes that--ahem!" began the gobernadorcillo, but a repetition
of the cough and sighs cut short the phrase.

To judge from the silence, no one wished to consider himself called upon as one of the Conscript
Fathers, since no one rose. Then Don Filipo seized the opportunity and rose to speak. The conservatives
winked and made significant signs to each other.

"I rise, gentlemen, to present my estimate of expenses for the fiesta," he began. "We can't
allow it," commented a consumptive old man, who was an irreconcilable conservative.

"We'll vote against it," corroborated others. "Gentlemen!" exclaimed Don Filipo, repressing
a smile, "I haven't yet made known the plan which we, the younger men, bring here. We feel
sure that this great plan will be preferred by all over any other that our opponents think
of or are capable of conceiving."

This presumptuous exordium so thoroughly irritated the minds of the conservatives that they
swore in their hearts to offer determined opposition.

"We have estimated three thousand five hundred pesos for the expenses," went on Don Filipo.
"Now then, with such a sum we shall be able to celebrate a fiesta that will eclipse in magnificence
any that has been seen up to this time in our own or neighboring provinces."

"Ahem!" coughed some doubters. "The town of A---- has five thousand, B---- has four thousand,
ahem! Humbug!"

"Listen to me, gentlemen, and I'll convince you," continued the unterrified speaker. "I propose
that we erect a theater in the middle of the plaza, to cost one hundred and fifty pesos."

"That won't be enough! It'll take one hundred and sixty," objected a confirmed conservative.

"Write it down, Señor Director, two hundred pesos for the theater," said Don Filipo. "I further
propose that we contract with a troupe of comedians from Tondo for seven performances on seven
successive nights. Seven performances at two hundred pesos a night make fourteen hundred pesos.
Write down fourteen hundred pesos, Señor Director!"

Both the elders and the youths stared in amazement. Only those in the secret gave no sign.

"I propose besides that we have magnificent fireworks; no little lights and pin-wheels such
as please children and old maids, nothing of the sort. We want big bombs and immense rockets.
I propose two hundred big bombs at two pesos each and two hundred rockets at the same price.
We'll have them made by the pyrotechnists of Malabon."

"Huh!" grunted an old man, "a two-peso bomb doesn't frighten or deafen me! They ought to be
three-peso ones."

"Write down one thousand pesos for two hundred bombs and two hundred rockets."

The conservatives could no longer restrain themselves. Some of them rose and began to whisper
together. "Moreover, in order that our visitors may see that we are a liberal people and have
plenty of money," continued the speaker, raising his voice and casting a rapid glance at the
whispering group of elders, "I propose: first, four hermanos mayores [68] for the two days
of the fiesta; and second, that each day there be thrown into the lake two hundred fried chickens,
one hundred stuffed capons, and forty roast pigs, as did Sylla, a contemporary of that Cicero,
of whom Capitan Basilio just spoke."

"That's it, like Sylla," repeated the flattered Capitan Basilio.

The surprise steadily increased.

"Since many rich people will attend and each one will bring thousands of pesos, his best game-cocks,
and his playing-cards, I propose that the cockpit run for fifteen days and that license be
granted to open all gambling houses--"

The youths interrupted him by rising, thinking that he had gone crazy. The elders were arguing
heatedly.

"And, finally, that we may not neglect the pleasures of the soul--"

The murmurs and cries which arose all over the hall drowned his voice out completely, and tumult
reigned.

"No!" yelled an irreconcilable conservative. "I don't want him to flatter himself over having
run the whole fiesta, no! Let me speak! Let me speak!"

"Don Filipo has deceived us," cried the liberals. "We'll vote against his plan. He has gone
over to the old men. We'll vote against him!"

The gobernadorcillo, more overwhelmed than ever, did nothing to restore order, but rather was
waiting for them to restore it themselves.

The captain of the cuadrilleros begged to be heard and was granted permission to speak, but
he did not open his mouth and sat down again confused and ashamed.

By good fortune, Capitan Valentin, the most moderate of all the conservatives, arose and said:
"We cannot agree to what the teniente-mayor has proposed, as it appears to be exaggerated.
So many bombs and so many nights of theatrical performances can only be desired by a young
man, such as he is, who can spend night after night sitting up and listening to so many explosions
without becoming deaf. I have consulted the opinion of the sensible persons here and all of
them unanimously disapprove Don Filipo's plan. Is it not so, gentlemen?"

"Yes, yes!" cried the youths and elders with one voice. The youths were delighted to hear an
old man speak so.

"What are we going to do with four hermanos mayores?" went on the old man. "What is the meaning
of those chickens, capons, and roast pigs, thrown into the lake? 'Humbug!' our neighbors would
say. And afterwards we should have to fast for six months! What have we to do with Sylla and
the Romans? Have they ever invited us to any of their festivities, I wonder? I, at least, have
never received any invitation from them, and you can all see that I'm an old man!"

"The Romans live in Rome, where the Pope is," Capitan Basilio prompted him in a low voice.
"Now I understand!" exclaimed the old man calmly.

"They would make of their festivals watch-meetings, and the Pope would order them to throw
their food into the sea so that they might commit no sin. But, in spite of all that, your plan
is inadmissible, impossible, a piece of foolishness!"

Being so stoutly opposed, Don Filipo had to withdraw his proposal. Now that their chief rival
had been defeated, even the worst of the irreconcilable insurgents looked on with calmness
while a young cabeza de barangay asked for the floor.

"I beg that you excuse the boldness of one so young as I am in daring to speak before so many
persons respected for their age and prudence and judgment in affairs, but since the eloquent
orator, Capitan Basilio, has requested every one to express his opinion, let the authoritative
words spoken by him excuse my insignificance."

The conservatives nodded their heads with satisfaction, remarking to one another: "This young
man talks sensibly." "He's modest." "He reasons admirably."

"What a pity that he doesn't know very well how to gesticulate," observed Capitan Basilio.
"But there's time yet! He hasn't studied Cicero and he's still a young man!"

"If I present to you, gentlemen, any program or plan," the young man continued, "I don't do
so with the thought that you will find it perfect or that you will accept it, but at the same
time that I once more bow to the judgment of all of you, I wish to prove to our elders that
our thoughts are always like theirs, since we take as our own those ideas so eloquently expressed
by Capitan Basilio."

"Well spoken! Well spoken!" cried the flattered conservatives. Capitan Basilio made signs to
the speaker showing him how he should stand and how he ought to move his arm. The only one
remaining impassive was the gobernadorcillo, who was either bewildered or preoccupied; as a
matter of fact, he seemed to be both. The young man went on with more warmth:

"My plan, gentlemen, reduces itself to this: invent new shows that are not common and ordinary,
such as we see every day, and endeavor that the money collected may not leave the town, and
that it be not wasted in smoke, but that it be used in some manner beneficial to all."

"That's right!" assented the youths. "That's what we want."

"Excellent!" added the elders.

"What should we get from a week of comedies, as the teniente-mayor proposes? What can we learn
from the kings of Bohemia and Granada, who commanded that their daughters' heads be cut off,
or that they should be blown from a cannon, which later is converted into a throne? We are
not kings, neither are we barbarians; we have no cannon, and if we should imitate those people,
they would hang us on Bagumbayan. What are those princesses who mingle in the battles, scattering
thrusts and blows about in combat with princes, or who wander alone over mountains and through
valleys as though seduced by the tikbálang? Our nature is to love sweetness and tenderness
in woman, and we would shudder at the thought of taking the blood-stained hand of a maiden,
even when the blood was that of a Moro or a giant, so abhorred by us. We consider vile the
man who raises his hand against a woman, be he prince or alferez or rude countryman. Would
it not be a thousand times better to give a representation of our own customs in order to correct
our defects and vices and to encourage our better qualities?"

"That's right! That's right!" exclaimed some of his faction.

"He's right," muttered several old men thoughtfully.

"I should never have thought of that," murmured Capitan Basilio.

"But how are you going to do it?" asked the irreconcilable.

"Very easily," answered the youth. "I have brought here two dramas which I feel sure the good
taste and recognized judgment of the respected elders here assembled will find very agreeable
and entertaining. One is entitled 'The Election of the Gobernadorcillo,' being a comedy in
prose in five acts, written by one who is here present. The other is in nine acts for two nights
and is a fantastical drama of a satirical nature, entitled 'Mariang Makiling,' [69] written
by one of the best poets of the province. Seeing that the discussion of preparations for the
fiesta has been postponed and fearing that there would not be time enough left, we have secretly
secured the actors and had them learn their parts. We hope that with a week of rehearsal they
will have plenty of time to know their parts thoroughly. This, gentlemen, besides being new,
useful, and reasonable, has the great advantage of being economical; we shall not need costumes,
as those of our daily life will be suitable."

"I'll pay for the theater!" shouted Capitan Basilio enthusiastically.

"If you need cuadrilleros, I'll lend you mine," cried their captain.

"And I--and I--if art old man is needed--" stammered another one, swelling with pride.

"Accepted! Accepted!" cried many voices.

Don Filipo became pale with emotion and his eyes filled with tears.

"He's crying from spite," thought the irreconcilable, so he yelled, "Accepted! Accepted without
discussion!" Thus satisfied with revenge and the complete defeat of his rival, this fellow
began to praise the young man's plan.

The latter continued his speech: "A fifth of the money collected may be used to distribute
a few prizes, such as to the best school child, the best herdsman, farmer, fisherman, and so
on. We can arrange for boat races on the river and lake and for horse races on shore, we can
raise greased poles and also have other games in which our country people can take part. I
concede that on account of our long-established customs we must have some fireworks; wheels
and fire castles are very beautiful and entertaining, but I don't believe it necessary to have
bombs, as the former speaker proposed. Two bands of music will afford sufficient merriment
and thus we shall avoid those rivalries and quarrels between the poor musicians who come to
gladden our fiesta with their work and who so often behave like fighting-cocks, afterwards
going away poorly paid, underfed, and even bruised and wounded at times. With the money left
over we can begin the erection of a small building for a schoolhouse, since we can't wait until
God Himself comes down and builds one for us, and it is a sad state of affairs that while we
have a fine cockpit our children study almost in the curate's stable. Such are the outlines
of my plan; the details can be worked out by all."

A murmur of pleasure ran through the hall, as nearly every one agreed with the youth.

Some few muttered, "Innovations! Innovations! When we were young--"

"Let's adopt it for the time being and humiliate that fellow," said others, indicating Don Filipo.

When silence was restored all were agreed. There was lacking only the approval of the gobernadorcillo.
That worthy official was perspiring and fidgeting about. He rubbed his hand over his forehead
and was at length able to stammer out in a weak voice: "I also agree, but--ahem!"

Every one in the hall listened in silence.

"But what?" asked Capitan Basilio.

"Very agreeable," repeated the gobernadorcillo, "that is to say--I don't agree--I mean--yes,
but--" Here he rubbed his eyes with the back of his hand. "But the curate," the poor fellow
went on, "the curate wants something else."

"Does the curate or do we ourselves pay for this fiesta? Has he given a cuarto for it?" exclaimed
a penetrating voice. All looked toward the place whence these questions came and saw there
the Sage Tasio.

Don Filipo remained motionless with his eyes fixed on the gobernadorcillo.

"What does the curate want?" asked Capitan Basilio.

"Well, the padre wants six processions, three sermons, three high masses, and if there is any
money left, a comedy from Tondo with songs in the intermissions."

"But we don't want that," said the youths and some of the old men.

"The curate wants it," repeated the gobernadorcillo. "I've promised him that his wish shall
be carried out."

"Then why did you have us assemble here?"

"F-for the very purpose of telling you this!"

"Why didn't you tell us so at the start?"

"I wanted to tell you, gentlemen, but Capitan Basilio spoke and I haven't had a chance. The
curate must be obeyed."

"He must be obeyed," echoed several old men.

"He must be obeyed or else the alcalde will put us all in jail," added several other old men sadly.

"Well then, obey him, and run the fiesta yourselves," exclaimed the youths, rising. "We withdraw
our contributions."

"Everything has already been collected," said the gobernadorcillo.

Don Filipo approached this official and said to him bitterly, "I sacrificed my pride in favor
of a good cause; you are sacrificing your dignity as a man in favor of a bad one, and you've
spoiled everything."

Ibarra turned to the schoolmaster and asked him, "Is there anything that I can do for you at
the capital of the province? I leave for there immediately."

"Have you some business there?"

"We have business there!" answered Ibarra mysteriously.

On the way home, when Don Filipo was cursing his bad luck, old Tasio said to him: "The blame
is ours! You didn't protest when they gave you a slave for a chief, and I, fool that I am,
had forgotten it!"

CHAPTER XXI

The Story of a Mother

                Andaba incierto--volaba errante,
                Un solo instante--sin descansar. [70]

                                                    ALAEJOS.

Sisa ran in the direction of her home with her thoughts in that confused whirl which is produced
in our being when, in the midst of misfortunes, protection and hope alike are gone. It is then
that everything seems to grow dark around us, and, if we do see some faint light shining from
afar, we run toward it, we follow it, even though an abyss yawns in our path. The mother wanted
to save her sons, and mothers do not ask about means when their children are concerned. Precipitately
she ran, pursued by fear and dark forebodings. Had they already arrested her son Basilio? Whither
had her boy Crispin fled?

As she approached her little hut she made out above the garden fence the caps of two soldiers.
It would be impossible to tell what her heart felt: she forgot everything. She was not ignorant
of the boldness of those men, who did not lower their gaze before even the richest people of
the town. What would they do now to her and to her sons, accused of theft! The civil-guards
are not men, they are civil-guards; they do not listen to supplications and they are accustomed
to see tears.

Sisa instinctively raised her eyes toward the sky, that sky which smiled with brilliance indescribable,
and in whose transparent blue floated some little fleecy clouds. She stopped to control the
trembling that had seized her whole body. The soldiers were leaving the house and were alone,
as they had arrested nothing more than the hen which Sisa had been fattening. She breathed
more freely and took heart again. "How good they are and what kind hearts they have!" she murmured,
almost weeping with joy. Had the soldiers burned her house but left her sons at liberty she
would have heaped blessings upon them! She again looked gratefully toward the sky through which
a flock of herons, those light clouds in the skies of the Philippines, were cutting their path,
and with restored confidence she continued on her way. As she approached those fearful men
she threw her glances in every direction as if unconcerned and pretended not to see her hen,
which was cackling for help. Scarcely had she passed them when she wanted to run, but prudence
restrained her steps.

She had not gone far when she heard herself called by an imperious voice. Shuddering, she pretended
not to hear, and continued on her way. They called her again, this time with a yell and an
insulting epithet. She turned toward them, pale and trembling in spite of herself. One of them
beckoned to her. Mechanically Sisa approached them, her tongue paralyzed with fear and her
throat parched.

"Tell us the truth or we'll tie you to that tree and shoot you," said one of them in a threatening
tone.

The woman stared at the tree.

"You're the mother of the thieves, aren't you?" asked the other.

"Mother of the thieves!" repeated Sisa mechanically.

"Where's the money your sons brought you last night?"

"Ah! The money--"

"Don't deny it or it'll be the worse for you," added the other. "We've come to arrest your
sons, and the older has escaped from us. Where have you hidden the younger?"

Upon hearing this Sisa breathed more freely and answered, "Sir, it has been many days since
I've seen Crispin. I expected to see him this morning at the convento, but there they only
told me--"

The two soldiers exchanged significant glances. "All right!" exclaimed one of them. "Give us
the money and we'll leave you alone."

"Sir," begged the unfortunate woman, "my sons wouldn't steal even though they were starving,
for we are used to that kind of suffering. Basilio didn't bring me a single cuarto. Search
the whole house and if you find even a real, do with us what you will. Not all of us poor folks
are thieves!"

"Well then," ordered the soldier slowly, as he fixed his gaze on Sisa's eyes, "come with us.
Your sons will show up and try to get rid of the money they stole. Come on!"

"I--go with you?" murmured the woman, as she stepped backward and gazed fearfully at their
uniforms. "And why not?"

"Oh, have pity on me!" she begged, almost on her knees. "I'm very poor, so I've neither gold
nor jewels to offer you. The only thing I had you've already taken, and that is the hen which
I was thinking of selling. Take everything that you find in the house, but leave me here in
peace, leave me here to die!"

"Go ahead! You're got to go, and if you don't move along willingly, we'll tie you."

Sisa broke out into bitter weeping, but those men were inflexible. "At least, let me go ahead
of you some distance," she begged, when she felt them take hold of her brutally and push her along.

The soldiers seemed to be somewhat affected and, after whispering apart, one of them said:
"All right, since from here until we get into the town, you might be able to escape, you'll
walk between us. Once there you may walk ahead twenty paces, but take care that you don't delay
and that you don't go into any shop, and don't stop. Go ahead, quickly!"

Vain were her supplications and arguments, useless her promises. The soldiers said that they
had already compromised themselves by having conceded too much. Upon finding herself between
them she felt as if she would die of shame. No one indeed was coming along the road, but how
about the air and the light of day? True shame encounters eyes everywhere. She covered her
face with her pañuelo and walked along blindly, weeping in silence at her disgrace. She had
felt misery and knew what it was to be abandoned by every one, even her own husband, but until
now she had considered herself honored and respected: up to this time she had looked with compassion
on those boldly dressed women whom the town knew as the concubines of the soldiers. Now it
seemed to her that she had fallen even a step lower than they in the social scale.

The sound of hoofs was heard, proceeding from a small train of men and women mounted on poor
nags, each between two baskets hung over the back of his mount; it was a party carrying fish
to the interior towns. Some of them on passing her hut had often asked for a drink of water
and had presented her with some fishes. Now as they passed her they seemed to beat and trample
upon her while their compassionate or disdainful looks penetrated through her pañuelo and stung
her face. When these travelers had finally passed she sighed and raised the pañuelo an instant
to see how far she still was from the town. There yet remained a few telegraph poles to be
passed before reaching the bantayan, or little watch-house, at the entrance to the town. Never
had that distance seemed so great to her.

Beside the road there grew a leafy bamboo thicket in whose shade she had rested at other times,
and where her lover had talked so sweetly as he helped her carry her basket of fruit and vegetables.
Alas, all that was past, like a dream! The lover had become her husband and a cabeza de barangay,
and then trouble had commenced to knock at her door. As the sun was beginning to shine hotly,
the soldiers asked her if she did not want to rest there. "Thanks, no!" was the horrified woman's
answer.

Real terror seized her when they neared the town. She threw her anguished gaze in all directions,
but no refuge offered itself, only wide rice-fields, a small irrigating ditch, and some stunted
trees; there was not a cliff or even a rock upon which she might dash herself to pieces! Now
she regretted that she had come so far with the soldiers; she longed for the deep river that
flowed by her hut, whose high and rock-strewn banks would have offered such a sweet death.
But again the thought of her sons, especially of Crispin, of whose fate she was still ignorant,
lightened the darkness of her night, and she was able to murmur resignedly, "Afterwards--afterwards--we'll
go and live in the depths of the forest."

Drying her eyes and trying to look calm, she turned to her guards and said in a low voice,
with an indefinable accent that was a complaint and a lament, a prayer and a reproach, sorrow
condensed into sound, "Now we're in the town." Even the soldiers seemed touched as they answered
her with a gesture. She struggled to affect a calm bearing while she went forward quickly.

At that moment the church bells began to peal out, announcing the end of the high mass. Sisa
hurried her steps so as to avoid, if possible, meeting the people who were coming out, but
in vain, for no means offered to escape encountering them. With a bitter smile she saluted
two of her acquaintances, who merely turned inquiring glances upon her, so that to avoid further
mortification she fixed her gaze on the ground, and yet, strange to say, she stumbled over
the stones in the road! Upon seeing her, people paused for a moment and conversed among themselves
as they gazed at her, all of which she saw and felt in spite of her downcast eyes.

She heard the shameless tones of a woman who asked from behind at the top of her voice, "Where
did you catch her? And the money?" It was a woman without a tapis, or tunic, dressed in a green
and yellow skirt and a camisa of blue gauze, easily recognizable from her costume as a querida
of the soldiery. Sisa felt as if she had received a slap in the face, for that woman had exposed
her before the crowd. She raised her eyes for a moment to get her fill of scorn and hate, but
saw the people far, far away. Yet she felt the chill of their stares and heard their whispers
as she moved over the ground almost without knowing that she touched it.

"Eh, this way!" a guard called to her. Like an automaton whose mechanism is breaking, she whirled
about rapidly on her heels, then without seeing or thinking of anything ran to hide herself.
She made out a door where a sentinel stood and tried to enter it, but a still more imperious
voice called her aside. With wavering steps she sought the direction of that voice, then felt
herself pushed along by the shoulders; she shut her eyes, took a couple of steps, and lacking
further strength, let herself fall to the ground, first on her knees and then in a sitting
posture. Dry and voiceless sobs shook her frame convulsively.

Now she was in the barracks among the soldiers, women, hogs, and chickens. Some of the men
were sewing at their clothes while their thighs furnished pillows for their queridas, who were
reclining on benches, smoking and gazing wearily at the ceiling. Other women were helping some
of the men clean their ornaments and arms, humming doubtful songs the while.

"It seems that the chicks have escaped, for you've brought only the old hen!" commented one
woman to the new arrivals,--whether alluding to Sisa or the still clucking hen is not certain.

"Yes, the hen is always worth more than the chicks," Sisa herself answered when she observed
that the soldiers were silent.

"Where's the sergeant?" asked one of the guards in a disgusted tone. "Has report been made
to the alferez yet?"

A general shrugging of shoulders was his answer, for no one was going to trouble himself inquiring
about the fate of a poor woman.

There Sisa spent two hours in a state of semi-idiocy, huddled in a corner with her head hidden
in her arms and her hair falling down in disorder. At noon the alferez was informed, and the
first thing that he did was to discredit the curate's accusation.

"Bah! Tricks of that rascally friar," he commented, as he ordered that the woman be released
and that no one should pay any attention to the matter. "If he wants to get back what he's
lost, let him ask St. Anthony or complain to the nuncio. Out with her!"

Consequently, Sisa was ejected from the barracks almost violently, as she did not try to move
herself. Finding herself in the street, she instinctively started to hurry toward her house,
with her head bared, her hair disheveled, and her gaze fixed on the distant horizon. The sun
burned in its zenith with never a cloud to shade its flashing disk; the wind shook the leaves
of the trees lightly along the dry road, while no bird dared stir from the shade of their branches.

At last Sisa reached her hut and entered it in silence, She walked all about it and ran in
and out for a time. Then she hurried to old Tasio's house and knocked at the door, but he was
not at home. The unhappy woman then returned to her hut and began to call loudly for Basilio
and Crispin, stopping every few minutes to listen attentively. Her voice came back in an echo,
for the soft murmur of the water in the neighboring river and the rustling of the bamboo leaves
were the only sounds that broke the stillness. She called again and again as she climbed the
low cliffs, or went down into a gully, or descended to the river. Her eyes rolled about with
a sinister expression, now flashing up with brilliant gleams, now becoming obscured like the
sky on a stormy night; it might be said that the light of reason was flickering and about to
be extinguished.

Again returning to her hut, she sat down on the mat where she had lain the night before. Raising
her eyes, she saw a twisted remnant from Basilio's camisa at the end of the bamboo post in
the dinding, or wall, that overlooked the precipice. She seized and examined it in the sunlight.
There were blood stains on it, but Sisa hardly saw them, for she went outside and continued
to raise and lower it before her eyes to examine it in the burning sunlight. The light was
failing and everything beginning to grow dark around her. She gazed wide-eyed and unblinkingly
straight at the sun.

Still wandering about here and there, crying and wailing, she would have frightened any listener,
for her voice now uttered rare notes such as are not often produced in the human throat. In
a night of roaring tempest, when the whirling winds beat with invisible wings against the crowding
shadows that ride upon it, if you should find yourself in a solitary and ruined building, you
would hear moans and sighs which you might suppose to be the soughing of the wind as it beats
on the high towers and moldering walls to fill you with terror and make you shudder in spite
of yourself; as mournful as those unknown sounds of the dark night when the tempest roars were
the accents of that mother. In this condition night came upon her. Perhaps Heaven had granted
some hours of sleep while the invisible wing of an angel, brushing over her pallid countenance,
might wipe out the sorrows from her memory; perhaps such suffering was too great for weak human
endurance, and Providence had intervened with its sweet remedy, forgetfulness. However that
may be, the next day Sisa wandered about smiling, singing, and talking with all the creatures
of wood and field.

CHAPTER XXII

Lights and Shadows

Three days have passed since the events narrated, three days which the town of San Diego has
devoted to making preparations for the fiesta, commenting and murmuring at the same time. While
all were enjoying the prospect of the pleasures to come, some spoke ill of the gobernadorcillo,
others of the teniente-mayor, others of the young men, and there were not lacking those who
blamed everybody for everything.

There was a great deal of comment on the arrival of Maria Clara, accompanied by her Aunt Isabel.
All rejoiced over it because they loved her and admired her beauty, while at the same time
they wondered at the change that had come over Padre Salvi. "He often becomes inattentive during
the holy services, nor does he talk much with us, and he is thinner and more taciturn than
usual," commented his penitents. The cook noticed him getting thinner and thinner by minutes
and complained of the little honor that was done to his dishes. But that which caused the most
comment among the people was the fact that in the convento were to be seen more than two lights
burning during the evening while Padre Salvi was on a visit to a private dwelling--the home
of Maria Clara! The pious women crossed themselves but continued their comments.

Ibarra had telegraphed from the capital of the province welcoming Aunt Isabel and her niece,
but had failed to explain the reason for his absence. Many thought him a prisoner on account
of his treatment of Padre Salvi on the afternoon of All Saints, but the comments reached a
climax when, on the evening of the third day, they saw him alight before the home of his fiancée
and extend a polite greeting to the priest, who was just entering the same house.

Sisa and her sons were forgotten by all.

If we should now go into the home of Maria Clara, a beautiful nest set among trees of orange
and ilang-ilang, we should surprise the two young people at a window overlooking the lake,
shadowed by flowers and climbing vines which exhaled a delicate perfume. Their lips murmured
words softer than the rustling of the leaves and sweeter than the aromatic odors that floated
through the garden. It was the hour when the sirens of the lake take advantage of the fast
falling twilight to show their merry heads above the waves to gaze upon the setting sun and
sing it to rest. It is said that their eyes and hair are blue, and that they are crowned with
white and red water plants; that at times the foam reveals their shapely forms, whiter than
the foam itself, and that when night descends completely they begin their divine sports, playing
mysterious airs like those of Æolian harps. But let us turn to our young people and listen
to the end of their conversation. Ibarra was speaking to Maria Clara.

"Tomorrow before daybreak your wish shall be fulfilled. I'll arrange everything tonight so
that nothing will be lacking."

"Then I'll write to my girl friends to come. But arrange it so that the curate won't be there."

"Why?"

"Because he seems to be watching me. His deep, gloomy eyes trouble me, and when he fixes them
on me I'm afraid. When he talks to me, his voice--oh, he speaks of such odd, such strange,
such incomprehensible things! He asked me once if I have ever dreamed of letters from my mother.
I really believe that he is half-crazy. My friend Sinang and my foster-sister, Andeng, say
that he is somewhat touched, because he neither eats nor bathes and lives in darkness. See
to it that he does not come!"

"We can't do otherwise than invite him," answered Ibarra thoughtfully. "The customs of the
country require it. He is in your house and, besides, he has conducted himself nobly toward
me. When the alcalde consulted him about the business of which I've told you, he had only praises
for me and didn't try to put the least obstacle in the way. But I see that you're serious about
it, so cease worrying, for he won't go in the same boat with us."

Light footsteps were heard. It was the curate, who approached with a forced smile on his lips.
"The wind is chilly," he said, "and when one catches cold one generally doesn't get rid of
it until the hot weather. Aren't you afraid of catching cold?" His voice trembled and his eyes
were turned toward the distant horizon, away from the young people.

"No, we rather find the night pleasant and the breeze delicious," answered Ibarra. "During
these months we have our autumn and our spring. Some leaves fall, but the flowers are always
in bloom."

Fray Salvi sighed.

"I think the union of these two seasons beautiful, with no cold winter intervening," continued
Ibarra. "In February the buds on the trees will burst open and in March we'll have the ripe
fruit. When the hot month's come we shall go elsewhere."

Fray Salvi smiled and began to talk of commonplace things, of the weather, of the town, and
of the fiesta. Maria Clara slipped away on some pretext.

"Since we are talking of fiestas, allow me to invite you to the one that we are going to celebrate
tomorrow. It is to be a picnic in the woods, which we and our friends are going to hold together."

"Where will it be held?"

"The young women wish to hold it by the brook in the neighboring wood, near to the old balete,
so we shall rise early to avoid the sun."

The priest thought a moment and then answered: "The invitation is very tempting and I accept
it to prove to you that I hold no rancor against you. But I shall have to go late, after I've
attended to my duties. Happy are you who are free, entirely free."

A few moments later Ibarra left in order to look after the arrangements for the picnic on the
next day. The night was dark and in the street some one approached and saluted him respectfully.

"Who are you?" asked Ibarra.

"Sir, you don't know my name," answered the unknown, "but I've been waiting for you two days."

"For what purpose?"

"Because nowhere has any pity been shown me and they say that I'm an outlaw, sir. But I've
lost my two sons, my wife is insane, and every one says that I deserve what has happened to me."

Ibarra looked at the man critically as he asked, "What do you want now?"

"To beg for your pity upon my wife and sons."

"I can't stop now," replied Ibarra. "If you wish to come, you can tell me as we go along what
has happened to you."

The man thanked him, and the two quickly disappeared in the shadows along the dimly lighted street.

CHAPTER XXIII

Fishing

The stars still glittered in the sapphire arch of heaven and the birds were still sleeping
among the branches when a merry party, lighted by torches of resin, commonly called huepes,
made its way through the streets toward the lake. There were five girls, who walked along rapidly
with hands clasped or arms encircling one another's waists, followed by some old women and
by servants who were carrying gracefully on their heads baskets of food and dishes. Looking
upon the laughing and hopeful countenances of the young women and watching the wind blow about
their abundant black hair and the wide folds of their garments, we might have taken them for
goddesses of the night fleeing from the day, did we not know that they were Maria Clara and
her four friends, the merry Sinang, the grave Victoria, the beautiful Iday, and the thoughtful
Neneng of modest and timid beauty. They were conversing in a lively manner, laughing and pinching
one another, whispering in one another's ears and then breaking out into loud laughter.

"You'll wake up the people who are still asleep," Aunt Isabel scolded. "When we were young,
we didn't make so much disturbance."

"Neither would you get up so early nor would the old folks have been such sleepy-heads," retorted
little Sinang.

They were silent for a short time, then tried to talk in low tones, but soon forgot themselves
and again filled the street with their fresh young voices.

"Behave as if you were displeased and don't talk to him," Sinang was advising Maria Clara.
"Scold him so he won't get into bad habits."

 "Don't be so exacting," objected Iday.

"Be exacting! Don't be foolish! He must be made to obey while he's only engaged, for after
he's your husband he'll do as he pleases," counseled little Sinang.

"What do you know about that, child?" her cousin Victoria corrected her.

"Sst! Keep quiet, for here they come!"

A group of young men, lighting their way with large bamboo torches, now came up, marching gravely
along to the sound of a guitar.

"It sounds like a beggar's guitar," laughed Sinang. When the two parties met it was the women
who maintained a serious and formal attitude, just as if they had never known how to laugh,
while on the other hand the men talked and laughed, asking six questions to get half an answer.

"Is the lake calm? Do you think we'll have good weather?" asked the mothers.

"Don't be alarmed, ladies, I know how to swim well," answered a tall, thin, emaciated youth.

"We ought to have heard mass first," sighed Aunt Isabel, clasping her hands.

"There's yet time, ma'am. Albino has been a theological student in his day and can say it in
the boat," remarked another youth, pointing to the tall, thin one who had first spoken. The
latter, who had a clownish countenance, threw himself into an attitude of contrition, caricaturing
Padre Salvi. Ibarra, though he maintained his serious demeanor, also joined in the merriment.

When they arrived at the beach, there involuntarily escaped from the women exclamations of
surprise and pleasure at the sight of two large bankas fastened together and picturesquely
adorned with garlands of flowers, leaves, and ruined cotton of many colors. Little paper lanterns
hung from an improvised canopy amid flowers and fruits. Comfortable seats with rugs and cushions
for the women had been provided by Ibarra. Even the paddles and oars were decorated, while
in the more profusely decorated banka were a harp, guitars, accordions, and a trumpet made
from a carabao horn. In the other banka fires burned on the clay kalanes for preparing refreshments
of tea, coffee, and salabat.

"In this boat here the women, and in the other there the men," ordered the mothers upon embarking.
"Keep quiet! Don't move about so or we'll be upset."

"Cross yourself first," advised Aunt Isabel, setting the example.

"Are we to be here all alone?" asked Sinang with a grimace. "Ourselves alone?" This question
was opportunely answered by a pinch from her mother.

As the boats moved slowly away from the shore, the light of the lanterns was reflected in the
calm waters of the lake, while in the eastern sky the first tints of dawn were just beginning
to appear. A deep silence reigned over the party after the division established by the mothers,
for the young people seemed to have given themselves up to meditation.

"Take care," said Albino, the ex-theological student, in a loud tone to another youth. "Keep
your foot tight on the plug under you."

"What?"

"It might come out and let the water in. This banka has a lot of holes in it."

"Oh, we're going to sink!" cried the frightened women.

"Don't be alarmed, ladies," the ex-theological student reassured them to calm their fears.
"The banka you are in is safe. It has only five holes in it and they aren't large."

"Five holes! Jesús! Do you want to drown us?" exclaimed the horrified women.

"Not more than five, ladies, and only about so large," the ex-theological student assured them,
indicating the circle formed with his index finger and thumb. "Press hard on the plugs so that
they won't come out."

"María Santísima! The water's coming in," cried an old woman who felt herself already getting wet.

There now arose a small tumult; some screamed, while others thought of jumping into the water.

"Press hard on the plugs there!" repeated Albino, pointing toward the place where the girls were.

"Where, where? Diós! We don't know how! For pity's sake come here, for we don't know how!"
begged the frightened women.

It was accordingly necessary for five of the young men to get over into the other banka to
calm the terrified mothers. But by some strange chance it seemed that there w, as danger by
the side of each of the dalagas; all the old ladies together did not have a single dangerous
hole near them! Still more strange it was that Ibarra had to be seated by the side of Maria
Clara, Albino beside Victoria, and so on. Quiet was restored among the solicitous mothers but
not in the circle of the young people.

As the water was perfectly still, the fish-corrals not far away, and the hour yet early, it
was decided to abandon the oars so that all might partake of some refreshment. Dawn had now
come, so the lanterns were extinguished.

"There's nothing to compare with salabat, drunk in the morning before going to mass," said
Capitana Tika, mother of the merry Sinang. "Drink some salabat and eat a rice-cake, Albino,
and you'll see that even you will want to pray."

"That's what I'm doing," answered the youth addressed. "I'm thinking of confessing myself."

"No," said Sinang, "drink some coffee to bring merry thoughts."

"I will, at once, because I feel a trifle sad."

"Don't do that," advised Aunt Isabel. "Drink some tea and eat a few crackers. They say that
tea calms one's thoughts."

"I'll also take some tea and crackers," answered the complaisant youth, "since fortunately
none of these drinks is Catholicism."

"But, can you--" Victoria began.

 "Drink some chocolate also? Well, I guess so, since breakfast is
 not so far off."

The morning was beautiful. The water began to gleam with the light reflected from the sky with
such clearness that every object stood revealed without producing a shadow, a bright, fresh
clearness permeated with color, such as we get a hint of in some marine paintings. All were
now merry as they breathed in the light breeze that began to arise. Even the mothers, so full
of cautions and warnings, now laughed and joked among themselves.

"Do you remember," one old woman was saying to Capitana Tika, "do you remember the time we
went to bathe in the river, before we were married? In little boats made from banana-stalks
there drifted down with the current fruits of many kinds and fragrant flowers. The little boats
had banners on them and each of us could see her name on one of them."

"And when we were on our way back home?" added another, without letting her go on. "We found
the bamboo bridges destroyed and so we had to wade the brooks. The rascals!"

"Yes, I know that I chose rather to let the borders of my skirt get wet than to uncover my
feet," said Capitana Tika, "for I knew that in the thickets on the bank there were eyes watching
us."

Some of the girls who heard these reminiscences winked and smiled, while the others were so
occupied with their own conversations that they took no notice.

One man alone, he who performed the duty of pilot, remained silent and removed from all the
merriment. He was a youth of athletic build and striking features, with large, sad eyes and
compressed lips. His black hair, long and unkempt, fell over a stout neck. A dark striped shirt
afforded a suggestion through its folds of the powerful muscles that enabled the vigorous arms
to handle as if it were a pen the wide and unwieldy paddle which' served as a rudder for steering
the two bankas.

Maria Clara had more than once caught him looking at her, but on such occasions he had quickly
turned his gaze toward the distant mountain or the shore. The young woman was moved with pity
at his loneliness and offered him some crackers. The pilot gave her a surprised stare, which,
however, lasted for only a second. He took a cracker and thanked her briefly in a scarcely
audible voice. After this no one paid any more attention to him. The sallies and merry laughter
of the young folks caused not the slightest movement in the muscles of his face. Even the merry
Sinang did not make him smile when she received pinchings that caused her to wrinkle up her
eyebrows for an instant, only to return to her former merry mood.

The lunch over, they proceeded on their way toward the fish-corrals, of which there were two
situated near each other, both belonging to Capitan Tiago. From afar were to be seen some herons
perched in contemplative attitude on the tops of the bamboo posts, while a number of white
birds, which the Tagalogs call kalaway, flew about in different directions, skimming the water
with their wings and filling the air with shrill cries. At the approach of the bankas the herons
took to flight, and Maria Clara followed them with her gaze as they flew in the direction of
the neighboring mountain.

"Do those birds build their nests on the mountain?" she asked the pilot, not so much from a
desire to know as for the purpose of making him talk.

"Probably they do, señora," he answered, "but no one up to this time has ever seen their nests."

"Don't they have nests?"

"I suppose they must have them, otherwise they would be very unfortunate."

Maria Clara did not notice the tone of sadness with which he uttered these words. "Then--"

"It is said, señora," answered the strange youth, "that the nests of those birds are invisible
and that they have the power of rendering invisible any one who possesses one of them. Just
as the soul can only be seen in the pure mirror of the eyes, so also in the mirror of the water
alone can their nests be looked upon."

Maria Clara became sad and thoughtful. Meanwhile, they had reached the first fish-corral and
an aged boatman tied the craft to a post.

"Wait!" called Aunt Isabel to the son of the fisherman, who was getting ready to climb upon
the platform of the corral with his panalok, or fish-net fastened on the end of a stout bamboo
pole. "We must get the sinigang ready so that the fish may pass at once from the water into
the soup."

"Kind Aunt Isabel!" exclaimed the ex-theological student. "She doesn't want the fish to miss
the water for an instant!"

Andeng, Maria Clara's foster-sister, in spite of her carefree and happy face, enjoyed the reputation
of being an excellent cook, so she set about preparing a soup of rice and vegetables, helped
and hindered by some of the young men, eager perhaps to win her favor. The other young women
all busied themselves in cutting up and washing the vegetables.

In order to divert the impatience of those who were waiting to see the fishes taken alive and
wriggling from their prison, the beautiful Iday got out the harp, for Iday not only played
well on that instrument, but, besides, she had very pretty fingers. The young people applauded
and Maria Clara kissed her, for the harp is the most popular instrument in that province, and
was especially suited to this occasion.

"Sing the hymn about marriage," begged the old women. The men protested and Victoria, who had
a fine voice, complained of hoarseness. The "Hymn of Marriage" is a beautiful Tagalog chant
in which are set forth the cares and sorrows of the married state, yet not passing over its joys.

They then asked Maria Clara to sing, but she protested that all her songs were sad ones. This
protest, however, was overruled so she held back no longer. Taking the harp, she played a short
prelude and then sang in a harmonious and vibrating voice full of feeling:

        Sweet are the hours in one's native land,
            Where all is dear the sunbeams bless;
        Life-giving breezes sweep the strand,
            And death is soften'd by love's caress.

        Warm kisses play on mother's lips,
            On her fond, tender breast awaking;
        When round her neck the soft arm slips,
            And bright eyes smile, all love partaking.

        Sweet is death for one's native land,
            Where all is dear the sunbeams bless;
        Dead is the breeze that sweeps the strand,
            Without a mother, home, or love's caress.

The song ceased, the voice died away, the harp became silent, and they still listened; no one
applauded. The young women felt their eyes fill with tears, and Ibarra seemed to be unpleasantly
affected. The youthful pilot stared motionless into the distance.

Suddenly a thundering roar was heard, such that the women screamed and covered their ears;
it was the ex-theological student blowing with all the strength of his lungs on the tambuli,
or carabao horn. Laughter and cheerfulness returned while tear-dimmed eyes brightened. "Are
you trying to deafen us, you heretic?" cried Aunt Isabel.

"Madam," replied the offender gravely, "I once heard of a poor trumpeter on the banks of the
Rhine who, by playing on his trumpet, won in marriage a rich and noble maiden."

"That's right, the trumpeter of Sackingen!" exclaimed Ibarra, unable to resist taking part
in the renewed merriment.

"Do you hear that?" went on Albino. "Now I want to see if I can't have the same luck." So saying,
he began to blow with even more force into the resounding horn, holding it close to the ears
of the girls who looked saddest. As might be expected, a small tumult arose and the mothers
finally reduced him to silence by beating him with their slippers [71] and pinching him.

"My, oh my!" he complained as he felt of his smarting arms, "what a distance there is between
the Philippines and the banks of the Rhine! O tempora! O mores! Some are given honors and others
sanbenitos!"

All laughed at this, even the grave Victoria, while Sinang, she of the smiling eyes, whispered
to Maria Clara, "Happy girl! I, too, would sing if I could!"

Andeng at length announced that the soup was ready to receive its guests, so the young fisherman
climbed up into the pen placed at the narrower end of the corral, over which might be written
for the fishes, were they able to read and understand Italian, "Lasciate ogni speranza voi
ch' entrante," [72] for no fish that gets in there is ever released except by death. This division
of the corral encloses a circular space so arranged that a man can stand on a platform in the
upper part and draw the fish out with a small net.

"I shouldn't get tired fishing there with a pole and line," commented Sinang, trembling with
pleasant anticipation.

All were now watching and some even began to believe that they saw the fishes wriggling about
in the net and showing their glittering scales. But when the youth lowered his net not a fish
leaped up.

"It must be full," whispered Albino, "for it has been over five days now since it was visited."

The fisherman drew in his net, but not even a single little fish adorned it. The water as it
fell back in glittering drops reflecting the sunlight seemed to mock his efforts with a silvery
smile. An exclamation of surprise, displeasure, and disappointment escaped from the lips of
all. Again the youth repeated the operation, but with no better result.

"You don't understand your business," said Albino, climbing up into the pen of the corral and
taking the net from the youth's hands. "Now you'll see! Andeng, get the pot ready!"

But apparently Albino did not understand the business either, for the net again came up empty.
All broke out into laughter at him.

"Don't make so much noise that the fish can hear and so not let themselves be caught. This
net must be torn." But on examination all the meshes of the net appeared to be intact.

"Give it to me," said Leon, Iday's sweetheart. He assured himself that the fence was in good
condition, examined the net and being satisfied with it, asked, "Are you sure that it hasn't
been visited for five days?"

"Very sure! The last time was on the eve of All Saints."

"Well then, either the lake is enchanted or I'll draw up something."

Leon then dropped the pole into the water and instantly astonishment was pictured on his countenance.
Silently he looked off toward the mountain and moved the pole about in the water, then without
raising it murmured in a low voice:

"A cayman!"

"A cayman!" repeated everyone, as the word ran from mouth to mouth in the midst of fright and
general surprise.

"What did you say?" they asked him.

"I say that we're caught a cayman," Leon assured them, and as he dropped the heavy end of the
pole into the water, he continued: "Don't you hear that sound? That's not sand, but a tough
hide, the back of a cayman. Don't you see how the posts shake? He's pushing against them even
though he is all rolled up. Wait, he's a big one, his body is almost a foot or more across."

"What shall we do?" was the question.

"Catch him!" prompted some one.

"Heavens! And who'll catch him?"

No one offered to go down into the trap, for the water was deep.

"We ought to tie him to our banka and drag him along in triumph," suggested Sinang. "The idea
of his eating the fish that we were going to eat!"

"I have never yet seen a live cayman," murmured Maria Clara.

The pilot arose, picked up a long rope, and climbed nimbly up on the platform, where Leon made
room for him. With the exception of Maria Clara, no one had taken any notice of him, but now
all admired his shapely figure. To the great surprise of all and in spite of their cries, he
leaped down into the enclosure.

"Take this knife!" called Crisostomo to him, holding out a wide Toledo blade, but already the
water was splashing up in a thousand jets and the depths closed mysteriously.

"Jesús, María, y José!" exclaimed the old women. "We're going to have an accident!"

"Don't be uneasy, ladies," said the old boatman, "for if there is any one in the province who
can do it, he's the man."

"What's his name?" they asked.

"We call him 'The Pilot' and he's the best I've ever seen, only he doesn't like the business."

The water became disturbed, then broke into ripples, the fence shook; a struggle seemed to
be going on in the depths. All were silent and hardly breathed. Ibarra grasped the handle of
the sharp knife convulsively.

Now the struggle seemed to be at an end and the head of the youth appeared, to be greeted with
joyful cries. The eyes of the old women filled with tears. The pilot climbed up with one end
of the rope in his hand and once on the platform began to pull on it. The monster soon appeared
above the water with the rope tied in a double band around its neck and underneath its front
legs. It was a large one, as Leon had said, speckled, and on its back grew the green moss which
is to the caymans what gray hairs are to men. Roaring like a bull and beating its tail against
or catching hold of the sides of the corral, it opened its huge jaws and showed its long, sharp
teeth. The pilot was hoisting it alone, for no one had thought to assist him.

Once out of the water and resting on the platform, he placed his foot upon it and with his
strong hands forced its huge jaws together and tried to tie its snout with stout knots. With
a last effort the reptile arched its body, struck the floor with its powerful tail, and jerking
free, hurled itself with one leap into the water outside the corral, dragging its captor along
with it. A cry of horror broke from the lips of all. But like a flash of lightning another
body shot into the water so quickly that there was hardly time to realize that it was Ibarra.
Maria Clara did not swoon only for the reason that the Filipino women do not yet know how to do so.

The anxious watchers saw the water become colored and dyed with blood. The young fisherman
jumped down with his bolo in his hand and was followed by his father, but they had scarcely
disappeared when Crisostomo and the pilot reappeared clinging to the dead body of the reptile,
which had the whole length of its white belly slit open and the knife still sticking in its throat.

To describe the joy were impossible, as a dozen arms reached out to drag the young men from
the water. The old women were beside themselves between laughter and prayers. Andeng forgot
that her sinigang had boiled over three times, spilling the soup and putting out the fire.
The only one who could say nothing was Maria Clara.

Ibarra was uninjured, while the pilot had only a slight scratch on his arm. "I owe my life
to you," said the latter to Ibarra, who was wrapping himself up in blankets and cloths. The
pilot's voice seemed to have a note of sadness in it.

"You are too daring," answered Ibarra. "Don't tempt fate again."

"If you had not come up again--" murmured the still pale and trembling Maria Clara.

"If I had not come up and you had followed me," replied Ibarra, completing the thought in his
own way, "in the bottom of the lake, I should still have been with my family!" He had not forgotten
that there lay the bones of his father.

The old women did not want to visit the other corral but wished to return, saying that the
day had begun inauspiciously and that many more accidents might occur. "All because we didn't
hear mass," sighed one.

"But what accident has befallen us, ladies?" asked Ibarra. "The cayman seems to have been the
only unlucky one."

"All of which proves," concluded the ex-student of theology, "that in all its sinful life this
unfortunate reptile has never attended mass--at least, I've never seen him among the many other
caymans that frequent the church."

So the boats were turned in the direction of the other corral and Andeng had to get her sinigang
ready again. The day was now well advanced, with a fresh breeze blowing. The waves curled up
behind the body of the cayman, raising "mountains of foam whereon the smooth, rich sunlight
glitters," as the poet says. The music again resounded; Iday played on the harp, while the
men handled the accordions and guitars with greater or less skill. The prize-winner was Albino,
who actually scratched the instruments, getting out of tune and losing the time every moment
or else forgetting it and changing to another tune entirely different.

The second corral was visited with some misgivings, as many expected to find there the mate
of the dead cayman, but nature is ever a jester, and the nets came up full at each haul. Aunt
Isabel superintended the sorting of the fish and ordered that some be left in the trap for
decoys. "It's not lucky to empty the corral completely," she concluded.

