"But come, gentlemen," resumed Mr. Jorrocks, "let's be after going upstairs.--Binjimin, announce
the gentlemen as your missis taught you. Open the door with your left hand, and stretch the
right towards her, to let the company see the point to make up to."

The party ascend the stairs one at a time, for the flight is narrow and rather abrupt, and
Benjamin, obeying his worthy master's injunctions, threw open the front drawing-room door,
and discovered Mrs. Jorrocks sitting in state at a round table, with annuals and albums spread
at orthodox distances around. The possession of this room had long been a bone of contention
between Mr. Jorrocks and his spouse, but at length they had accommodated matters by Mr. Jorrocks
gaining undivided possession of the back drawing-room (communicating by folding-doors), with
the run of the front one equally with Mrs. Jorrocks on non-company days. A glance, however,
showed which was the master's and which the mistress's room. The front one was papered with
weeping willows, bending under the weight of ripe cherries on a white ground, and the chair
cushions were covered with pea-green cotton velvet with yellow worsted bindings.

The round table was made of rosewood, and there was a "whatnot" on the right of the fire-place
of similar material, containing a handsomely-bound collection of Sir Walter Scott's Works,
in wood. The carpet-pattern consisted of most dashing bouquets of many-coloured flowers, in
winding French horns on a very light drab ground, so light, indeed, that Mr. Jorrocks was never
allowed to tread upon it except in pumps or slippers. The bell-pulls were made of foxes' brushes,
and in the frame of the looking-glass, above the white marble mantelpiece, were stuck visiting-cards,
notes of invitation, thanks for "obliging inquiries," etc. The hearth-rug exhibited a bright
yellow tiger, with pink eyes, on a blue ground, with a flossy green border; and the fender
and fire-irons were of shining brass. On the wall, immediately opposite the fire-place, was
a portrait of Mrs. Jorrocks before she was married, so unlike her present self that no one
would have taken it for her. The back drawing-room, which looked out upon the gravel walk and
house-backs beyond, was papered with broad scarlet and green stripes in honour of the Surrey
Hunt uniform, and was set out with a green-covered library table in the centre, with a red
morocco hunting-chair between it and the window, and several good strong hair-bottomed mahogany
chairs around the walls. The table had a very literary air, being strewed with sporting magazines,
odd numbers of Bell's Life, pamphlets, and papers of various descriptions, while on a sheet
of foolscap on the portfolio were ten lines of an elegy on a giblet pie which had been broken
in coming from the baker's, at which Mr. Jorrocks had been hammering for some time. On the
side opposite the fire-place, on a hanging range of mahogany shelves, were ten volumes of Bell's
Life in London, the New Sporting Magazine, bound gilt and lettered, the Memoirs of Harriette
Wilson, Boxiana, Taplin's Farriery, Nimrod's Life of Mytton, and a backgammon board that Mr.
Jorrocks had bought by mistake for a history of England.

Mrs. Jorrocks, as we said before, was sitting in state at the far side of the round table,
on a worsted-worked ottoman exhibiting a cock pheasant on a white ground, and was fanning herself
with a red-and-white paper fan, and turning over the leaves of an annual. How Mr. Jorrocks
happened to marry her, no one could ever divine, for she never was pretty, had very little
money, and not even a decent figure to recommend her. It was generally supposed at the time,
that his brother Joe and he having had a deadly feud about a bottom piece of muffin, the lady's
friends had talked him into the match, in the hopes of his having a family to leave his money
to, instead of bequeathing it to Joe or his children. Certain it is, they never were meant
for each other; Mr. Jorrocks, as our readers have seen, being all nature and impulse, while
Mrs. Jorrocks was all vanity and affectation. To describe her accurately is more than we can
pretend to, for she looked so different in different dresses, that Mr. Jorrocks himself sometimes
did not recognise her. Her face was round, with a good strong brick-dust sort of complexion,
a turn-up nose, eyes that were grey in one light and green in another, and a middling-sized
mouth, with a double chin below. Mr. Jorrocks used to say that she was "warranted" to him as
twelve years younger than himself, but many people supposed the difference of age between them
was not so great. Her stature was of the middle height, and she was of one breadth from the
shoulders to the heels. She was dressed in a flaming scarlet satin gown, with swan's-down round
the top, as also at the arms, and two flounces of the same material round the bottom. Her turban
was of green velvet, with a gold fringe, terminating in a bunch over the left side, while a
bird-of-paradise inclined towards the right. Across her forehead she wore a gold band, with
a many-coloured glass butterfly (a present from James Green), and her neck, arms, waist (at
least what ought to have been her waist) were hung round and studded with mosaic-gold chains,
brooches, rings, buttons, bracelets, etc., looking for all the world like a portable pawnbroker's
shop, or the lump of beef that Sinbad the sailor threw into the Valley of Diamonds. In the
right of a gold band round her middle, was an immense gold watch, with a bunch of mosaic seals
appended to a massive chain of the same material; and a large miniature of Mr. Jorrocks when
he was a young man, with his hair stiffly curled, occupied a place on her left side. On her
right arm dangled a green velvet bag with a gold cord, out of which one of Mr. Jorrocks's silk
handkerchiefs protruded, while a crumpled, yellowish-white cambric one, with a lace fringe,
lay at her side.

On an hour-glass stool, a little behind Mrs. Jorrocks, sat her niece Belinda (Joe Jorrocks's
eldest daughter), a nice laughing pretty girl of sixteen, with languishing blue eyes, brown
hair, a nose of the "turn-up" order, beautiful mouth and teeth, a very fair complexion, and
a gracefully moulded figure. She had just left one of the finishing and polishing seminaries
in the neighbourhood of Bromley, where, for two hundred a year and upwards, all the teasing
accomplishments of life are taught, and Mrs. Jorrocks, in her own mind, had already appropriated
her to James Green, while Mr. Jorrocks, on the other hand, had assigned her to Stubbs. Belinda's
dress was simplicity itself; her silken hair hung in shining tresses down her smiling face,
confined by a plain tortoiseshell comb behind, and a narrow pink velvet band before. Round
her swan-like neck was a plain white cornelian necklace; and her well-washed white muslin frock,
confined by a pink sash, flowing behind in a bow, met in simple folds across her swelling bosom.
Black sandal shoes confined her fairy feet, and with French cotton stockings, completed her
toilette. Belinda, though young, was a celebrated eastern beauty, and there was not a butcher's
boy in Whitechapel, from Michael Scales downwards, but what eyed her with delight as she passed
along from Shoreditch on her daily walk.

The presentations having been effected, and the heat of the day, the excellence of the house,
the cleanliness of Great Coram Street--the usual topics, in short, when people know nothing
of each other--having been discussed, our party scattered themselves about the room to await
the pleasing announcement of dinner. Mr. Jorrocks, of course, was in attendance upon Nimrod,
while Mr. Stubbs made love to Belinda behind Mrs. Jorrocks. No man knocks with such wigorous
wiolence as he does. All Great Coram Street and parts adjacent know when he comes. Julius Caesar
himself couldn't kick up a greater row." "What Green is it, Green of Rollestone?" inquired
Nimrod, thinking of his Leicestershire friend. "No," said Mr. Jorrocks, "Green of Tooley Street.
You'll have heard of the Greens in the borough, 'emp, 'op, and 'ide (hemp, hop, and hide) merchants--numerous
family, numerous as the 'airs in my vig. This is James Green, jun., whose father, old James
Green, jun., verd antique, as I calls him, is the son of James Green, sen., who is in the 'emp
line, and James is own cousin to young old James Green, sen., whose father is in the 'ide line."
The remainder of the pedigree was lost by Benjamin throwing open the door and announcing Mr.
Green; and Jemmy, who had been exchanging his cloth boots for patent-leather pumps, came bounding
upstairs like a racket-ball. "My dear Mrs. Jorrocks," cried he, swinging through the company
to her, "I'm delighted to see you looking so well. I declare you are fifty per cent younger
than you were. Belinda, my love, 'ow are you? Jorrocks, my friend, 'ow do ye do?"

"Thank ye, James," said Jorrocks, shaking hands with him most cordially, "I'm werry well, indeed,
and delighted to see you. Now let me present you to Nimrod."

"Ay, Nimrod!" said Green, in his usual flippant style, with a nod of his head, "'ow are ye,
Nimrod? I've heard of you, I think--Nimrod Brothers and Co., bottle merchants, Crutched Friars,
ain't it?"

"No," said Jorrocks, in an undertone with a frown--Happerley Nimrod, the great sporting hauthor."

"True," replied Green, not at all disconcerted, "I've heard of him--Nimrod--the mighty 'unter
before the lord. Glad to see ye, Nimrod. Stubbs, 'ow are ye?" nodding to the Yorkshireman,
as he jerked himself on to a chair on the other side of Belinda.

As usual, Green was as gay as a peacock. His curly flaxen wig projected over his forehead like
the roof of a Swiss cottage, and his pointed gills were supported by a stiff black mohair stock,
with a broad front and black frill confined with jet studs down the centre. His coat was light
green, with archery buttons, made very wide at the hips, with which he sported a white waistcoat,
bright yellow ochre leather trousers, pink silk stockings, and patent-leather pumps. In his
hand he carried a white silk handkerchief, which smelt most powerfully of musk; and a pair
of dirty wristbands drew the eye to sundry dashing rings upon his fingers.

Jonathan Crane, a little long-nosed old city wine-merchant, a member of the Surrey Hunt, being
announced and presented, Mrs. Jorrocks declared herself faint from the heat of the room, and
begged to be excused for a few minutes. Nimrod, all politeness, was about to offer her his
arm, but Mr. Jorrocks pulled him back, whispering, "Let her go, let her go." "The fact is,"
said he in an undertone after she was out of hearing, "it's a way Mrs. J---- has when she wants
to see that dinner's all right. You see she's a terrible high-bred woman, being a cross between
a gentleman-usher and a lady's-maid, and doesn't like to be supposed to look after these things,
so when she goes, she always pretend to faint. You'll see her back presently," and, just as
he spoke, in she came with a half-pint smelling-bottle at her nose. Benjamin followed immediately
after, and throwing open the door proclaimed, in a half-fledged voice, that "dinner was sarved,"
upon which the party all started on their legs.

"Now, Mr. Happerley Nimrod," cried Jorrocks, "you'll trot Mrs. J---- down--according to the
book of etiquette, you know, giving her the wall side.[25] Sorry, gentlemen, I havn't ladies
apiece for you, but my sally-manger, as we say in France, is rayther small, besides which I
never like to dine more than eight. Stubbs, my boy, Green and you must toss up for Belinda--here's
a halfpenny, and let be 'Newmarket'[26] if you please. Wot say you? a voman! Stubbs wins!"
cried Mr. Jorrocks, as the halfpenny fell head downwards. "Now, Spiers, couple up with Crane,
and James and I will whip in to you. But stop, gentlemen!" cried Mr. Jorrocks, as he reached
the top of the stairs, "let me make one request--that you von't eat the windmill you'll see
on the centre of the table. Mrs. Jorrocks has hired it for the evening, of Mr. Farrell, the
confectioner, in Lamb's Conduit Street, and it's engaged to two or three evening parties after
it leaves this." "Lauk, John! how wulgar you are. What matter can it make to your friends where
the windmill comes from!" exclaimed Mrs. Jorrocks in an audible voice from below, Nimrod, with
admirable skill, having piloted her down the straights and turns of the staircase. Having squeezed
herself between the backs of the chairs and the wall, Mrs. Jorrocks at length reached the head
of the table, and with a bump of her body and wave of her hand motioned Nimrod to take the
seat on her right. Green then pushed past Belinda and Stubbs, and took the place on Mrs. Jorrocks's
left, so Stubbs, with a dexterous manoeuvre, placed himself in the centre of the table, with
Belinda between himself and her uncle. Crane and Spiers then filled the vacant places on Nimrod's
side, Mr. Spiers facing Mr. Stubbs.

[Footnote 25: "In your passage from one room to another, offer the lady the wall in going downstairs,"
etc,--Spirit of Etiquette.]

[Footnote 26: "We have repeatedly decided that Newmarket is one toss."--Bell's Life.]

The dining-room was the breadth of the passage narrower than the front drawing-room, and, as
Mr. Jorrocks truly said, was rayther small--but the table being excessively broad, made the
room appear less than it was. It was lighted up with spermaceti candles in silver holders,
one at each corner of the table, and there was a lamp in the wall between the red-curtained
windows, immediately below a brass nail, on which Mr. Jorrocks's great hunting-whip and a bunch
of boot garters were hung. Two more candles in the hands of bronze Dianas on the marble mantelpiece,
lighted up a coloured copy of Barraud's picture of John Warde on Blue Ruin; while Mr. Ralph
Lambton, on his horse Undertaker, with his hounds and men, occupied a frame on the opposite
wall. The old-fashioned cellaret sideboard, against the wall at the end, supported a large
bright-burning brass lamp, with raised foxes round the rim, whose effulgent rays shed a brilliant
halo over eight black hats and two white ones, whereof the four middle ones were decorated
with evergreens and foxes' brushes. The dinner table was crowded, not covered. There was scarcely
a square inch of cloth to be seen on any part. In the centre stood a magnificent finely spun
barley-sugar windmill, two feet and a half high, with a spacious sugar foundation, with a cart
and horses and two or three millers at the door, and a she-miller working a ball-dress flounce
at a lower window.

The whole dinner, first, second, third, fourth course --everything, in fact, except dessert--was
on the table, as we sometimes see it at ordinaries and public dinners. Before both Mr. and
Mrs. Jorrocks were two great tureens of mock-turtle soup, each capable of holding a gallon,
and both full up to the brim. Then there were two sorts of fish; turbot and lobster sauce,
and a great salmon. A round of boiled beef and an immense piece of roast occupied the rear
of these, ready to march on the disappearance of the fish and soup--and behind the walls, formed
by the beef of old England, came two dishes of grouse, each dish holding three brace. The side
dishes consisted of a calf's head hashed, a leg of mutton, chickens, ducks, and mountains of
vegetables; and round the windmill were plum-puddings, tarts, jellies, pies, and puffs.

Behind Mrs. Jorrocks's chair stood "Batsay" with a fine brass-headed comb in her hair, and
stiff ringlets down her ruddy cheeks. She was dressed in a green silk gown, with a coral necklace,
and one of Mr. Jorrocks's lavender and white coloured silk pocket-handkerchiefs made into an
apron. "Binjimin" stood with the door in his hand, as the saying is, with a towel twisted round
his thumb, as though he had cut it.

"Now, gentlemen," said Mr. Jorrocks, casting his eye up the table, as soon as they had all
got squeezed and wedged round it, and the dishes were uncovered, "you see your dinner, eat
whatever you like except the windmill--hope you'll be able to satisfy nature with what's on--would
have had more but Mrs. J---- is so werry fine, she won't stand two joints of the same sort
on the table."

Mrs. J. Lauk, John, how can you be so wulgar! Who ever saw two rounds of beef, as you wanted
to have? Besides, I'm sure the gentlemen will excuse any little defishency, considering the
short notice we have had, and that this is not an elaborate dinner.

Mr. Spiers. I'm sure, ma'm, there's no defishency at all. Indeed, I think there's as much fish
as would serve double the number--and I'm sure you look as if you had your soup "on sale or
return," as we say in the magazine line.

Mr. J. Haw! haw! haw! werry good, Mr. Spiers. I owe you one. Not bad soup though--had it from
Birch's. Let me send you some; and pray lay into it, or I shall think you don't like it. Mr.
Happerley, let me send you some--and, gentlemen, let me observe, once for all, that there's
every species of malt liquor under the side table. Prime stout, from the Marquess Cornwallis,
hard by. Also ale, table, and what my friend Crane there calls lamentable--he says, because
it's so werry small--but, in truth, because I don't buy it of him. There's all sorts of drench,
in fact, except water--thing I never touch--rots one's shoes, don't know what it would do with
one's stomach if it was to get there. Mr. Crane, you're eating nothing. I'm quite shocked to
see you; you don't surely live upon hair? Do help yourself, or you'll faint from werry famine.
Belinda, my love, does the Yorkshireman take care of you? Who's for some salmon?--bought at
Luckey's, and there's both Tallyho and Tantivy sarce to eat with it. Somehow or other I always
fancies I rides harder after eating these sarces with fish. Mr. Happerley Nimrod, you are the
greatest man at table, consequently I axes you to drink wine first, according to the book of
etiquette--help yourself, sir. Some of Crane's particklar, hot and strong, real stuff, none
of your wan de bones (vin de beaume) or rot-gut French stuff--hope you like it--if you don't,
pray speak your mind freely, now that we have Crane among us. Binjimin, get me some of that
duck before Mr. Spiers, a leg and a wing, if you please, sir, and a bit of the breast.

Mr. Spiers. Certainly, sir, certainly. Do you prefer a right or left wing, sir?

Mr. Jorrocks. Oh, either. I suppose it's all the same.

Mr. Spiers. Why no, sir, it's not exactly all the same; for it happens there is only one remaining,
therefore it must be the left one.

Mr. J. (chuckling). Haw! haw! haw! Mr. S----, werry good that--werry good indeed. I owes you two.

"I'll trouble you for a little, Mr. Spiers, if you please," says Crane, handing his plate round
the windmill.

"I'm sorry, sir, it is all gone," replies Mr. Spiers, who had just filled Mr. Jorrocks's plate;
"there's nothing left but the neck," holding it up on the fork.

"Well, send it," rejoins Mr. Crane; "neck or nothing, you know, Mr. Jorrocks, as we say with
the Surrey."

"Haw! haw! haw!" grunts Mr. Jorrocks, who is busy sucking a bone; "haw! hawl haw! werry good,
Crane, werry good--owes you one. Now, gentlemen," added he, casting his eye up the table as
he spoke, "let me adwise ye, before you attack the grouse, to take the hedge (edge) off your
appetites, or else there won't be enough, and, you know, it does not do to eat the farmer after
the gentlemen. Let's see, now--three and three are six, six brace among eight--oh dear, that's
nothing like enough. I wish, Mrs. J----, you had followed my adwice, and roasted them all.
And now, Binjimin, you're going to break the windmill with your clumsiness, you little dirty
rascal! Why von't you let Batsay arrange the table? Thank you, Mr. Crane, for your assistance--your
politeness, sir, exceeds your beauty." [A barrel organ strikes up before the window, and Jorrocks
throws down his knife and fork in an agony.] "Oh dear, oh dear, there's that cursed horgan
again. It's a regular annihilator. Binjimin, run and kick the fellow's werry soul out of him.
There's no man suffers so much from music as I do. I wish I had a pocketful of sudden deaths,
that I might throw one at every thief of a musicianer that comes up the street. I declare the
scoundrel has set all my teeth on edge. Mr. Nimrod, pray take another glass of wine after your
roast beef.--Well, with Mrs. J---- if you choose, but I'll join you--always says that you are
the werry cleverest man of the day--read all your writings--anny-tommy (anatomy) of gaming,
and all. Am a hauthor myself, you know--once set to, to write a werry long and elaborate harticle
on scent, but after cudgelling my brains, and turning the thing over and over again in my mind,
all that I could brew on the subject was, that scent was a werry rum thing; nothing rummer
than scent, except a woman."

"Pray," cried Mrs. Jorrocks, her eyes starting as she spoke, "don't let us have any of your
low-lifed stable conversation here--you think to show off before the ladies," added she, "and
flatter yourself you talk about what we don't understand. Now, I'll be bound to say, with all
your fine sporting hinformation, you carn't tell me whether a mule brays or neighs!"

"Vether a mule brays or neighs?" repeated Mr. Jorrocks, considering. "I'll lay I can!"

"Which, then?" inquired Mrs. Jorrocks.

"Vy, I should say it brayed."

"Mule bray!" cried Mrs. Jorrocks, clapping her hands with delight, "there's a cockney blockhead
for you! It brays, does it?"

Mr. Jorrocks. I meant to say, neighed.

"Ho! ho! ho!" grinned Mrs. J----, "neighs, does it? You are a nice man for a fox-'unter--a
mule neighs--thought I'd catch you some of these odd days with your wain conceit."

"Vy, what does it do then?" inquired Mr. Jorrocks, his choler rising as he spoke. "I hopes,
at all ewents, he don't make the 'orrible noise you do."

"Why, it screams, you great hass!" rejoined his loving spouse.

A single, but very resolute knock at the street door, sounding quite through the house, stopped
all further ebullition, and Benjamin, slipping out, held a short conversation with someone
in the street, and returned.

"What's happened now, Binjimin?" inquired Mr. Jorrocks, with anxiety on his countenance, as
the boy re-entered the room; "the 'osses arn't amiss, I 'ope?"

"Please, sir, Mr. Farrell's young man has come for the windmill--he says you've had it two
hours," replied Benjamin.

"The deuce be with Mr. Farrell's young man! he does not suppose we can part with the mill before
the cloth's drawn--tell him to mizzle, or I'll mill him. 'Now's the day and now's the hour';
who's for some grouse? Gentlemen, make your game, in fact. But first of all let's have a round
robin. Pass the wine, gentlemen. What wine do you take, Stubbs."

"Why, champagne is good enough for me."

Mr. Jorrocks, I dare say; but if you wait till you get any here, you will have a long time
to stop. Shampain, indeed! had enough of that nonsense abroad--declare you young chaps drink
shampain like hale. There's red and wite port, and sherry, in fact, and them as carn't drink,
they must go without.

  X. was expensive and soon became poor,
  Y. was the wise man and kept want from the door.

"Now for the grouse!" added he, as the two beefs disappeared, and they took their stations
at the top and bottom of the table. "Fine birds, to be sure! Hope you havn't burked your appetites,
gentlemen, so as not to be able to do justice to them--smell high--werry good--gamey, in fact.
Binjimin. take an 'ot plate to Mr. Nimrod--sarve us all round with them."

The grouse being excellent, and cooked to a turn, little execution was done upon the pastry,
and the jellies had all melted long before it came to their turn to be eat. At length everyone,
Mr. Jorrocks and all, appeared satisfied, and the noise of knives and forks was succeeded by
the din of tongues and the ringing of glasses, as the eaters refreshed themselves with wine
or malt liquors. Cheese and biscuit being handed about on plates, according to the Spirit of
Etiquette. Binjimin and Batsay at length cleared the table, lifted off the windmill, and removed
the cloth. Mr. Jorrocks then delivered himself of a most emphatic grace.

The wine and dessert being placed on the table, the ceremony of drinking healths all round
was performed. "Your good health, Mrs. J----.--Belinda, my loove, your good health--wish you
a good 'usband.--Nimrod, your good health.--James Green, your good health.--Old verd antique's
good health.--Your uncle's good health.--All the Green family.--Stubbs, your good health.--Spiers,
Crane, etc." The bottles then pass round three times, on each of which occasions Mrs. Jorrocks
makes them pay toll. The fourth time she let them pass; and Jorrocks began to grunt, hem, and
haw, and kick the leg of the table, by way of giving her a hint to depart. This caused a dead
silence, which at length was broken by the Yorkshireman's exclaiming "horrid pause!"

"Horrid paws!" vociferated Mrs. J----, in a towering rage, "so would yours, let me tell you,
sir, if you had helped to cook all that dinner": and gathering herself up and repeating the
words "horrid paws, indeed, I like your imperence," she sailed out of the room like an exasperated
turkey-cock; her face, from heat, anger, and the quantity she had drank, being as red as her
gown. Indeed, she looked for all the world as if she had been put into a furnace and blown
red hot. Jorrocks having got rid of his "worser half," as he calls her, let out a reef or two
of his acre of white waistcoat, and each man made himself comfortable according to his acceptation
of the term. "Gentlemen," says Jorrocks, "I'll trouble you to charge your glasses, 'eel-taps
off--a bumper toast--no skylights, if you please. Crane, pass the wine--you are a regular old
stop-bottle--a turnpike gate, in fact. After this followed "The Merry Harriers," then came
"The Staggers," after that "The Trigger, and bad luck to Cheatum," all bumpers; when Jorrocks,
having screwed his courage up to the sticking-place, called for another, which being complied
with, he rose and delivered himself as follows:

"Gentlemen, in rising to propose the toast which I am now about to propose--I feel--I feel--(Yorkshireman--'very
queer?') J---- No, not verry queer, and I'll trouble you to hold your jaw (laughter). Gentlemen,
I say, in rising to propose the toast which I am about to give, I feel--I feel--(Crane--'werry
nervous?') J---- No, not werry nervous, so none of your nonsense; let me alone, I say. I say,
in rising to propose the toast which I am about to give, I feel--(Mr. Spiers--'very foolish?'
Nimrod--'very funny?' Crane--'werry rum?') J---- No, werry proud of the distinguished honour
that has been conferred upon me--conferred upon me--conferred upon me--distinguished honour
that has been conferred upon me by the presence, this day, of one of the most distinguished
men--distinguished men--by the presence, this day, of one of the most distinguished men and
sportsmen--of modern times (cheers.) Gentlemen--this is the proudest moment of my life! the
eyes of England are upon us! I give you the health of Mr. Happerley Nimrod." (Drunk with three
times three.)

When the cheering, and dancing of the glasses had somewhat subsided, Nimrod rose and spoke
as follows:

"Mr. Jorrocks, and gentlemen",

"The handsome manner in which my health has been proposed by our worthy and estimable host,
and the flattering reception it has met with from you, merit my warmest acknowledgments. I
should, indeed, be unworthy of the land which gave me birth, were I insensible of the honour
which has just been done me by so enlightened and distinguished an assembly as the present.
My friend, Mr. Jorrocks, has been pleased to designate me as one of the most distinguished
sportsmen of the day, a title, however, to which I feel I have little claim: but this I may
say, that I have portrayed our great national sports in their brightest and most glowing colours,
and that on sporting subjects my pen shall yield to none (cheers). I have ever been the decided
advocate of many sports and exercises, not only on account of the health and vigour they inspire,
but because I feel that they are the best safeguards on a nation's energies, and the best protection
against luxury, idleness, debauchery, and effeminacy (cheers). The authority of all history
informs us, that the energies of countries flourished whilst manly sports have flourished,
and decayed as they died away (cheers). What says Juvenal, when speaking of the entry of luxury
into Rome?"

  Saevior armis
  Luxuria incubuit, victumque ulciscitur orbem.

"And we need only refer to ancient history, and to the writings of Xenophon, Cicero, Horace,
or Virgil, for evidence of the value they have all attached to the encouragement of manly,
active, and hardy pursuits, and the evils produced by a degenerate and effeminate life on the
manners and characters of a people (cheers). Many of the most eminent literary characters of
this and of other countries have been ardently attached to field sports; and who, that has
experienced their beneficial results, can doubt that they are the best promoters of the mens
sana in corpore sano--the body sound and the understanding clear (cheers)? Gentlemen, it is
with feelings of no ordinary gratification that I find myself at the social and truly hospitable
board of one of the most distinguished ornaments of one of the most celebrated Hunts in this
great country, one whose name and fame have reached the four corners of the globe--to find
myself after so long an absence from my native land--an estrangement from all that has ever
been nearest and dearest to my heart--once again surrounded by these cheerful countenances
which so well express the honest, healthful pursuits of their owners. Let us then," added Nimrod,
seizing a decanter and pouring himself out a bumper, "drink, in true Kentish fire, the health
and prosperity of that brightest sample of civic sportsmen, the great and renowned JOHN JORROCKS!"

Immense applause followed the conclusion of this speech, during which time the decanters buzzed
round the table, and the glasses being emptied, the company rose, and a full charge of Kentish
fire followed; Mr. Jorrocks, sitting all the while, looking as uncomfortable as men in his
situation generally do.

The cheering having subsided, and the parties having resumed their seats, it was his turn to
rise, so getting on his legs, he essayed to speak, but finding, as many men do, that his ideas
deserted him the moment the "eyes of England" were turned upon him, after two or three hitches
of his nankeens, and as many hems and haws, he very coolly resumed his seat, and spoke as follows:

