"It would be very much better for him if he did," said the rector.

"A clergyman at any rate is supposed to be appointed; and that clergyman he must pay."

"Not at all," said the rector. "The clergy are paid by the wise provision of former ages."

"We will let that pass for the present," said the Senator. "There he is, however he may be
paid. How does he get there?" Now it was the fact that Mr. Mainwaring's living had been bought
for him with his wife's money,--a fact of which Mr. Gotobed was not aware, but which he would
hardly have regarded had he known it. "How does he get there?"

"In the majority of cases the bishop puts him there," said Mr. Surtees.

"And how is the bishop governed in his choice? As far as I can learn the stipends are absurdly
various, one man getting 100 pounds a year for working like a horse in a big town, and another
1000 pounds for living an idle life in a luxurious country house. But the bishop of course
gives the bigger plums to the best men. How is it then that the big plums find their way so
often to the sons and sons-in-law and nephews of the bishops?"

"Because the bishop has looked after their education and principles," said the rector.

"And taught them how to choose their wives," said the Senator with imperturbable gravity.

"I am not the son of a bishop, sir," exclaimed the rector.

"I wish you had been, sir, if it would have done you any good. A general can't make his son
a colonel at the age of twenty-five, or an admiral his son a first lieutenant, or a judge his
a Queen's Counsellor,--nor can the head of an office promote his to be a chief secretary. It
is only a bishop can do this;--I suppose because a cure of souls is so much less important
than the charge of a ship or the discipline of twenty or thirty clerks."

"The bishops don't do it," said the rector fiercely.

"Then the statistics which have been put into my hands belie them. But how is it with those
the bishops don't appoint? There seems to me to be such a complication of absurdities as to
defy explanation."

"I think I could explain them all," said Mr. Surtees mildly.

"If you can do so satisfactorily, I shall be very glad to hear it," continued the Senator,
who seemed in truth to be glad to hear no one but himself. "A lad of one-and-twenty learns
his lessons so well that he has to be rewarded at his college, and a part of his reward consists
in his having a parish entrusted to him when he is forty years old, to which he can maintain
his right whether he be in any way trained for such work or no. Is that true?"

"His collegiate education is the best training he can have," said the rector.

"I came across a young fellow the other day," continued the Senator, "in a very nice house,
with 700 pounds a year, and learned that he had inherited the living because he was his father's
second son. Some poor clergyman had been keeping it ready for him for the last fifteen years
and had to turn out as soon as this young spark could be made a clergyman."

"It was his father's property," said the rector, "and the poor man had had great kindness shown
him for those fifteen years"

"Exactly;--his father's property! And this is what you call a cure of souls! And another man
had absolutely had his living bought for him by his uncle, just as he might have bought him
a farm. He couldn't have bought him the command of a regiment or a small judgeship. In those
matters you require capacity. It is only when you deal with the Church that you throw to the
winds all ideas of fitness. `Sir,' or `Madam,' or perhaps, `my little dear, you are bound to
come to your places in Church and hear me expound the Word of God because I have paid a heavy
sum of money for the privilege of teaching you, at the moderate salary of 600 pounds a year!'"

Mr. Surtees sat aghast, with his mouth open, and knew not how to say a word. Doctor Nupper
rubbed his red nose. Reginald Morton attempted some suggestion about the wine which fell wretchedly
flat. John Morton ventured to tell his friend that he did not understand the subject. "I shall
be most happy to be instructed," said the Senator.

"Understand it!" said the rector, almost rising in his chair to rebuke the insolence of his
guest--"He understands nothing about it, and yet he ventures to fall foul with unmeasured terms
on an establishment which has been brought to its present condition by the fostering care of
perhaps the most pious set of divines that ever lived, and which has produced results with
which those of no other Church can compare!"

"Have I represented anything untruly?" asked the Senator.

"A great deal, sir."

"Only put me right, and no man will recall his words more readily. Is it not the case that
livings in the Church of England can be bought and sold?"

"The matter is one, Sir," said the rector, "which cannot be discussed in this manner. There
are two clergymen present to whom such language is distasteful; as it is also I hope to the
others who are all members of the Church of England. Perhaps you will allow me to request that
the subject may be changed." After that conversation flagged and the evening was by no means
joyous. The rector certainly regretted that his '57 claret should have been expended on such
a man. "I don't think," said he when John Morton had taken the Senator away, "that in my whole
life before I ever met such a brute as that American Senator."

CHAPTER XVI

Persecution

There was great consternation in the attorney's house after the writing of the letter to Lawrence
Twentyman. For twenty-four hours Mrs. Masters did not speak to Mary, not at all intending to
let her sin pass with such moderate punishment as that, but thinking during that period that
as she might perhaps induce Larry to ignore the letter and look upon it as though it were not
written, it would be best to say nothing till the time should come in which the lover might
again urge his suit. But when she found on the evening of the second day that Larry did not
come near the place she could control herself no longer, and accused her step-daughter of ruining
herself, her father, and the whole family. "That is very unfair, mamma," Mary said. "I have
done nothing. I have only not done that which nobody had a right to ask me to do."

"Right indeed! And who are you with your rights? A decent well-behaved young man with five
or six hundred a year has no right to ask you to be his wife! All this comes of you staying
with an old woman with a handle to her name."

It was in vain that Mary endeavoured to explain that she had not alluded to Larry when she
declared that no one had a right to ask her to do it. She had, she said, always thanked him
for his good opinion of her, and had spoken well of him whenever his name was mentioned. But
it was a matter on which a young woman was entitled to judge for herself, and no one had a
right to scold her because she could not love him. Mrs. Masters hated such arguments, despised
this rodomontade about love, and would have crushed the girl into obedience could it have been
possible. "You are an idiot," she said, "an ungrateful idiot; and unless you think better of
it you'll repent your folly to your dying day. Who do you think is to come running after a
moping slut like you?" Then Mary gathered herself up and left the room, feeling that she could
not live in the house if she were to be called a slut.

Soon after this Larry came to the attorney and got him to come out into the street and to walk
with him round the churchyard. It was the spot in Dillsborough in which they would most certainly
be left undisturbed. This took place on the day before his proposition for the sale of Chowton
Farm. When he got the attorney into the churchyard he took out Mary's letter and in speechless
agony handed it to the attorney. "I saw it before it went," said Masters putting it back with
his hand:

"I suppose she means it?" asked Larry.

"I can't say to you but what she does, Twentyman. As far as I know her she isn't a girl that
would ever say anything that she didn't mean."

"I was sure of that. When I got it and read it, it was just as though some one had come behind
me and hit me over the head with a wheel-spoke. I couldn't have ate a morsel of breakfast if
I knew I wasn't to see another bit of food for four-and-twenty hours."

"I knew you would feel it, Larry."

"Feel it! Till it came to this I didn't think of myself but what I had more strength. It has
knocked me about till I feel all over like drinking."

"Don't do that, Larry."

"I won't answer for myself what I'll do. A man sets his heart on a thing,--just on one thing,--and
has grit enough in him to be sure of himself that if he can get that nothing shall knock him
over. When that thoroughbred mare of mine slipped her foal who can say I ever whimpered. When
I got pleuro among the cattle I killed a'most the lot of 'em out of hand, and never laid awake
a night about it. But I've got it so heavy this time I can't stand it. You don't think I have
any chance, Mr. Masters?"

"You can try of course. You're welcome to the house."

"But what do you think? You must know her."

"Girls do change their minds."

"But she isn't like other girls. Is she now? I come to you because I sometimes think Mrs. Masters
is a little hard on her. Mrs. Masters is about the best friend I have. There isn't anybody
more on my side than she is. But I feel sure of this;--Mary will never be drove."

"I don't think she will, Larry."

"She's got a will of her own as well as another."

"No man alive ever had a better daughter."

"I'm sure of that, Mr. Masters; and no man alive 'll ever have a better wife. But she won't
be drove. I might ask her again, you think?"

"You certainly have my leave."

"But would it be any good? I'd rather cut my throat and have done with it than go about teasing
her because her parents let me come to her." Then there was a pause during which they walked
on, the attorney feeling that he had nothing more to say. "What I want to know," said Larry,
"is this. Is there anybody else?"

That was just the point on which the attorney himself was perplexed. He had asked Mary that
question, and her silence had assured him that it was so. Then he had suggested to her the
name of the only probable suitor that occurred to him; and she had repelled the idea in a manner
that had convinced him at once. There was some one, but Mr. Surtees was not the man. There
was some one, he was sure, but he had not been able to cross-examine her on the subject. He
had, since that, cudgelled his brain to think who that some one might be, but had not succeeded
in suggesting a name even to himself. That of Reginald Morton, who hardly ever came to the
house and whom he regarded as a silent, severe, unapproachable man, did not come into his mind.
Among the young ladies of Dillsborough Reginald Morton was never regarded as even a possible
lover. And yet there was assuredly some one. "If there is any one else I think you ought to
tell me," continued Larry.

"It is quite possible."

"Young Surtees, I suppose."

"I do not say there is anybody; but if there be anybody I do not think it is Surtees."

"Who else then?"

"I cannot say, Larry. I know nothing about it."

"But there is some one?"

"I do not say so. You ask me and I tell you all I know."

Again they walked round the churchyard in silence and the attorney began to be anxious that
the interview might be over. He hardly liked to be interrogated about the state of his daughter's
heart, and yet he had felt himself bound to tell what he knew to the man who had in all respects
behaved well to him. When they had returned for the third or fourth time to the gate by which
they had entered Larry spoke again. "I suppose I may as well give it up."

"What can I say?"

"You have been fair enough, Mr. Masters. And so has she. And so has everybody. I shall just
get away as quick as I can, and go and hang myself. I feel above bothering her any more. When
she sat down to write a letter like that she must have been in earnest"

"She certainly was in earnest, Larry."

"What's the use of going on after that? Only it is so hard for a fellow to feel that everything
is gone. It is just as though the house was burnt down, or I was to wake in the morning and
find that the land didn't belong to me."

"Not so bad as that, Larry."

"Not so bad, Mr. Masters! Then you don't know what it is I'm feeling. I'd let his lordship
or Squire Morton have it all, and go in upon it as a tenant at 30s. an acre, so that I could
take her along with me. I would, and sell the horses and set to and work in my shirt-sleeves.
A man could stand that. Nobody wouldn't laugh at me then. But there's an emptiness now here
that makes me sick all through, as though I hadn't got stomach left for anything." Then poor
Larry put his hand upon his heart and hid his face upon the churchyard wall. The attorney made
some attempt to say a kind word to him, and then, leaving him there, slowly made his way back
to his office.

We already know what first step Larry took with the intention of running away from his cares.
In the house at Dillsborough things were almost as bad as they were with him. Over and over
again Mrs. Masters told her husband that it was all his fault, and that if he had torn the
letter when it was showed to him, everything would have been right by the end of the two months.
This he bore with what equanimity he could, shutting himself up very much in his office, occasionally
escaping for a quarter of an hour of ease to his friends at the Bush, and eating his meals
in silence. But when he became aware that his girl was being treated with cruelty,--that she
was never spoken to by her stepmother without harsh words, and that her sisters were encouraged
to be disdainful to her, then his heart rose within him and he rebelled. He declared aloud
that Mary should not be persecuted, and if this kind of thing were continued he would defend
his girl let the consequences be what they might.

"What are you going to defend her against?" asked his wife.

"I won't have her ill-used because she refuses to marry at your bidding."

"Bah! You know as much how to manage a girl as though you were an old maid yourself. Cocker
her up and make her think that nothing is good enough for her! Break her spirit, and make her
come round, and teach her to know what it is to have an honest man's house offered to her.
If she don't take Larry Twentyman's she's like to have none of her own before long." But Mr.
Masters would not assent to this plan of breaking his girl's spirit, and so there was continual
war in the place and every one there was miserable.

Mary herself was so unhappy that she convinced herself that it was necessary that some change
should be made. Then she remembered Lady Ushant's offer of a home, and not only the offer,
but the old lady's assurance that to herself such an arrangement, if possible, would be very
comfortable. She did not suggest to herself that she would leave her father's home for ever
and always; but it might be that an absence of some months might relieve the absolute misery
of their present mode of living. The effect on her father was so sad that she was almost driven
to regret that he should have taken her own part. Her stepmother was not a bad woman; nor did
Mary even now think her to be had. She was a hardworking, painstaking wife, with a good general
idea of justice. In the division of puddings and pies and other material comforts of the household
she would deal evenly between her own children and her step-daughter. She had not desired to
send Mary away to an inadequate home, or with a worthless husband. But when the proper home
and the proper man were there she was prepared to use any amount of hardship to secure these
good things to the family generally. This hardship Mary could not endure, nor could Mary's
father on her behalf, and therefore Mary prepared a letter to Lady Ushant in which, at great
length, she told her old friend the whole story. She spoke as tenderly as was possible of all
concerned, but declared that her stepmother's feelings on the subject were so strong that every
one in the house was made wretched. Under these circumstances,--for her father's sake if only
for that,--she thought herself bound to leave the house. "It is quite impossible," she said,
"that I should do as they wish me. That is a matter on which a young woman must judge for herself.
If you could have me for a few months it would perhaps all pass by. I should not dare to ask
this but for what you said yourself; and, dear Lady Ushant, pray remember that I do not want
to be idle. There are a great many things I can do; and though I know that nothing can pay
for kindness, I might perhaps be able not to be a burden." Then she added in a postscript--"Papa
is everything that is kind;--but then all this makes him so miserable!"

When she had kept the letter by her for a day she showed it to her father, and by his consent
it was sent. After much consultation it was agreed between them that nothing should be said
about it to Mrs. Masters till the answer should come; and that, should the answer be favourable,
the plan should be carved out in spite of any domestic opposition. In this letter Mary told
as accurately as she could the whole story of Larry's courtship, and was very clear in declaring
that under no possible circumstances could she encourage any hope. But of course she said not
a word as to any other man or as to any love on her side. "Have you told her everything?" said
her father as he closed the letter.

"Yes, papa;--everything that there is to be told." Then there arose within his own bosom an
immense desire to know that secret, so that if possible he might do something to relieve her
pain;--but he could not bring himself to ask further questions.

Lady Ushant on receiving the letter much doubted what she ought to do. She acknowledged at
once Mary's right to appeal to her; and assured herself that the girl's presence would be a
comfort and a happiness to herself. If Mary were quite alone in the world Lady Ushant would
have been at once prepared to give her a home. But she doubted as to the propriety of taking
the girl from her own family. She doubted even whether it would not be better that Mary should
be left within the influence of Larry Twentyman's charms. A settlement, an income, and assured
comforts for life are very serious things to all people who have reached Lady Ushant's age.
And then she had a doubt within her own mind whether Mary might not be debarred from accepting
this young man by some unfortunate preference for Reginald Morton. She had seen them together
and had suspected something of the truth before it had glimmered before the eyes of any one
in Dillsborough. Had Reginald been so inclined Lady Morton would have been very glad to see
him marry Mary Masters. For both their sakes she would have preferred such a match to one with
the owner of Chowton Farm. But she did not think that Reginald himself was that way minded,
and she fancied that poor Mary might be throwing away her prosperity in life were she to wait
for Reginald's love. Larry Twentyman was at any rate sure;--and perhaps it might be unwise
to separate the girl from her lover.

In her doubt she determined to refer the case to Reginald himself, and instead of writing to
Mary she wrote to him. She did not send him Mary's letter,--which would, she felt, have been
a breach of faith; nor did she mention the name of Larry Twentyman. But she told him that Mary
had proposed to come to Cheltenham for a long visit because there were disturbances at home,--which
disturbances had arisen from her rejection of a certain suitor. Lady Ushant said a great deal
as to the inexpediency of fostering family quarrels, and suggested that Mary might perhaps
have been a little impetuous. The presence of this lover could hardly do her much injury. These
were not days in which young women were forced to marry men. What did he, Reginald Morton,
think about it? He was to remember that as far as she herself was concerned, she dearly loved
Mary Masters and would be delighted to have her at Cheltenham; and, so remembering, he was
to see the attorney, and Mary herself, and if necessary Mrs. Masters;--and then to report his
opinion to Cheltenham.

Then, fearing that her nephew might be away for a day or two, or that he might not be able
to perform his commission instantly, and thinking that Mary might be unhappy if she received
no immediate reply to such a request as hers had been, Lady Ushant by the same post wrote to
her young friend as follows;--

Dear Mary,

Reginald will go over and see your father about your proposition. As far as I myself am concerned
nothing would give me so much pleasure. This is quite sincere. But the matter is in other respects
very important. Of course I have kept your letter all to myself, and in writing to Reginald
I have mentioned no names.

                        Your affectionate friend,
                             Margaret Ushant.

CHAPTER XVII

"Particularly proud of you"

Arabella Trefoil left her uncle's mansion on the day after her lover's departure, certainly
not in triumph, but with somewhat recovered spirits. When she first heard that Lord Rufford
was gone,--that he had fled away as it were in the middle of the night without saying a word
to her, without a syllable to make good the slight assurances of his love that had been given
to her in the post carriage, she felt that she was deserted and betrayed. And when she found
herself altogether neglected on the following day, and that the slightly valuable impression
which she had made on her aunt was apparently gone, she did for half an hour think in earnest
of the Paragon and Patagonia. But after a while she called to mind all that she knew of great
efforts successfully made in opposition to almost overwhelming difficulties. She had heard
of forlorn hopes, and perhaps in her young days had read something of Caesar still clinging
to his Commentaries as he struggled in the waves. This was her forlorn hope, and she would
be as brave as any soldier of them all. Lord Rufford's embraces were her Commentaries, and
let the winds blow and the waves roll as they might she would still cling to them. After lunch
she spoke to her aunt with great courage,--as the Duchess thought with great effrontery. "My
uncle wouldn't speak to Lord Rufford before he went?"

"How could he speak to a man who ran away from his house in that way?"

"The running away, as you call it, aunt, did not take place till two days after I had told
you all about it. I thought he would have done as much as that for his brother's daughter."

"I don't believe in it at all," said the Duchess sternly.

"Don't believe in what, aunt? You don't mean to say that you don't believe that Lord Rufford
has asked me to be his wife!" Then she paused, but the Duchess absolutely lacked the courage
to express her conviction again. "I don't suppose it signifies much," continued Arabella, "but
of course it would have been something to me that Lord Rufford should have known that the Duke
was anxious for my welfare. He was quite prepared to have assured my uncle of his intentions."

"Then why didn't he speak himself?"

"Because the Duke is not my father. Really, aunt, when I hear you talk of his running away
I do feel it to be unkind. As if we didn't all know that a man like that goes and comes as
he pleases. It was just before dinner that he got the message, and was he to run round and
wish everybody good-bye like a schoolgirl going to bed?"

The Duchess was almost certain that no message had come, and from various little things which
she had observed and from tidings which had reached her, very much doubted whether Arabella
had known anything of his intended going. She too had a maid of her own who on occasions could
bring information. But she had nothing further to say on the subject. If Arabella should ever
become Lady Rufford she would of course among other visitors be occasionally received at Mistletoe.
She could never be a favourite, but things would to a certain degree have rectified themselves.
But if, as the Duchess expected, no such marriage took place, then this ill-conducted niece
should never be admitted within the house again.

Later on in the afternoon, some hours after it became dusk, Arabella contrived to meet her
aunt in the hall with a letter in her hand, and asked where the letter-box was. She knew where
to deposit her letters as well as did the Duchess herself; but she desired an opportunity of
proclaiming what she had done. "I am writing to Lord Rufford. Perhaps as I am in your house
I ought to tell you what I have done."

"The letter-box is in the billiard-room, close to the door," said the Duchess passing on. Then
she added as she went, "The post for to-day has gone already."

"His Lordship will have to wait a day for his letter. I dare say it won't break his heart,"
said Arabella, as she turned away to the billiard-room.

All this had been planned; and, moreover, she had so written her letter that if her magnificent
aunt should condescend to tamper with it all that was in it should seem to corroborate her
own story. The Duchess would have considered herself disgraced if ever she had done such a
thing;--but the niece of the Duchess did not quite understand that this would be so. The letter
was as follows:

Mistletoe, 19th Jany. 1875.

Dearest R.,

Your going off like that was, after all, very horrid. My aunt thinks that you were running
away from me. I think that you were running away from her. Which was true? In real earnest
I don't for a moment think that either I or the Duchess had anything to do with it, and that
you did go because some horrid man wrote and asked you. I know you don't like being bound by
any of the conventionalities. I hope there is such a word, and that if not, you'll understand
it just the same.

Oh, Peltry,--and oh, Jack,--and oh, that road back to Stamford! I am so stiff that I can't
sit upright, and everybody is cross to me, and everything is uncomfortable. What horrible things
women are! There isn't one here, not even old Lady Rumpus, who hasn't an unmarried daughter
left in the world, who isn't jealous of me, because--because--. I must leave you to guess why
they all hate me so! And I'm sure if you had given Jack to any other woman I should hate her,
though you may give every horse you have to any man that you please. I wonder whether I shall
have another day's hunting before it is all over. I suppose not. It was almost by a miracle
that we managed yesterday--only fancy--yesterday! It seems to be an age ago!

Pray, pray, pray write to me at once,--to the Connop Greens, so that I may get a nice, soft,
pleasant word directly I get among those nasty, hard, unpleasant people. They have lots of
money, and plenty of furniture, and I dare say the best things to eat and drink in the world,--but
nothing else. There will be no Jack; and if there were, alas, alas, no one to show me the way
to ride him.

I start to-morrow, and as far as I understand, shall have to make my way into Hampshire all
by myself, with only such security as my maid can give me. I shall make her go in the same
carriage and shall have the gratification of looking at her all the way. I suppose I ought
not to say that I will shut my eyes and try to think that somebody else is there.

Good-bye dear, dear, dear R. I shall be dying for a letter from you. Yours ever with all my
heart.  A.

P.S. I shall write you such a serious epistle when I get to the Greens.

This was not such a letter as she thought that her aunt would approve; but it was, she fancied,
such as the Duchess would believe that she would write to her lover. And if it were allowed
to go on its way it would make Lord Rufford feel that she was neither alarmed nor displeased
by the suddenness of his departure. But it was not expected to do much good. It might produce
some short, joking, half-affectionate reply, but would not draw from him that serious word
which was so necessary for the success of her scheme. Therefore she had told him that she intended
to prepare a serious missile. Should this pleasant little message of love miscarry, the serious
missile would still be sent, and the miscarriage would occasion no harm.

But then further plans were necessary. It might be that Lord Rufford would take no notice of
the serious missile,--which she thought very probable. Or it might be that he would send back
a serious reply, in which he would calmly explain to her that she had unfortunately mistaken
his sentiments;--which she believed would be a stretch of manhood beyond his reach. But in
either case she would be prepared with the course which she would follow. In the first she
would begin by forcing her father to write to him a letter which she herself would dictate.
In the second she would set the whole family at him as far as the family were within her reach.
With her cousin Lord Mistletoe, who was only two years older than herself, she had always held
pleasant relations. They had been children together, and as they had grown up the young Lord
had liked his pretty cousin. Latterly they had seen each other but rarely, and therefore the
feeling still remained. She would tell Lord Mistletoe her whole story,--that is the story as
she would please to tell it,--and implore his aid. Her father should be driven to demand from
Lord Rufford an execution of his alleged promises. She herself would write such a letter to
the Duke as an uncle should be unable not to notice. She would move heaven and earth as to
her wrongs. She thought that if her friends would stick to her, Lord Rufford would be weak
as water in their hands. But it must be all done immediately,--so that if everything failed
she might be ready to start to Patagonia some time in April. When she looked back and remembered
that it was hardly more than two months since she had been taken to Rufford Hall by Mr. Morton
she could not accuse herself of having lost any time.

In London she met her mother,--as to which meeting there had been some doubt,--and underwent
the tortures of a close examination. She had thought it prudent on this occasion to tell her
mother something, but not to tell anything quite truly. "He has proposed to me," she said.

"He has!" said Lady Augustus, holding up her hands almost in awe.

"Is there anything so wonderful in that?"

"Then it is all arranged. Does the Duke know it?"

"It is not all arranged by any means, and the Duke does know it. Now, mamma, after that I must
decline to answer any more questions. I have done this all myself, and I mean to continue it
in the same way."

"Did he speak to the Duke? You will tell me that."

"I will tell you nothing."

"You will drive me mad, Arabella."

"That will be better than your driving me mad just at present. You ought to feel that I have
a great deal to think of."

"And have not I?"

"You can't help me;--not at present."

"But he did propose,--in absolute words?"

"Mamma, what a goose you are! Do you suppose that men do it all now just as it is done in books?
'Miss Arabella Trefoil, will you do me the honour to become my wife?' Do you think that Lord
Rufford would ask the question in that way?"

"It is a very good way."

"Any way is a good way that answers the purpose. He has proposed, and I mean to make him stick
to it"

"You doubt then?"

"Mamma, you are so silly! Do you not know what such a man is well enough to be sure that he'll
change his mind half-a-dozen times if he can? I don't mean to let him; and now, after that,
I won't say another word."

"I have got a letter here from Mr. Short saying that something must be fixed about Mr. Morton."
Mr. Short was the lawyer who had been instructed to prepare the settlements.

"Mr. Short may do whatever he likes," said Arabella. There were very hot words between them
that night in London, but the mother could obtain no further information from her daughter.

That serious epistle had been commenced even before Arabella had left Mistletoe; but the composition
was one which required great care, and it was not completed and copied and recopied till she
had been two days in Hampshire. Not even when it was finished did she say a word to her mother
about it. She had doubted much as to the phrases which in such an emergency she ought to use,
but she thought it safer to trust to herself than to her mother. In writing such a letter as
that posted at Mistletoe she believed herself to be happy. She could write it quickly, and
understood that she could convey to her correspondent some sense of her assumed mood. But her
serious letter would, she feared, be stiff and repulsive. Whether her fears were right the
reader shall judge,--for the letter when written was as follows:

Marygold Place, Basingstoke, Saturday.

My Dear Lord Rufford,

You will I suppose have got the letter that I wrote before I left Mistletoe, and which I directed
to Mr. Surbiton's. There was not much in it,--except a word or two as to your going and as
to my desolation, and just a reminiscence of the hunting. There was no reproach that you should
have left me without any farewell, or that you should have gone so suddenly, after saying so
much, without saying more. I wanted you to feel that you had made me very happy, and not to
feel that your departure in such a way had robbed me of part of the happiness.

It was a little bad of you, because it did of course leave me to the hardness of my aunt; and
because all the other women there would of course follow her. She had inquired about our journey
home, that dear journey home, and I had of course told her,--well I had better say it out at
once; I told her that we were engaged. You, I am sure, will think that the truth was best.
She wanted to know why you did not go to the Duke. I told her that the Duke was not my father;
but that as far as I was concerned the Duke might speak to you or not as he pleased. I had
nothing to conceal. I am very glad he did not, because he is pompous, and you would have been
bored. If there is one thing I desire more than another it is that nothing belonging to me
shall ever be a bore to you. I hope I may never stand in the way of anything that will gratify
you,--as I said when you lit that cigar. You will have forgotten, I dare say. But, dear Rufford,--dearest;
I may say that, mayn't I?--say something, or do something to make me satisfied. You know what
I mean;--don't you? It isn't that I am a bit afraid myself. I don't think so little of myself,
or so badly of you. But I don't like other women to look at me as though I ought not to be
proud of anything. I am proud of everything; particularly proud of you,--and of Jack.

Now there is my serious epistle, and I am sure that you will answer
it like a dear, good, kind-hearted, loving-lover. I won't be afraid
of writing the word, nor of saying that I love you with all my
heart, and that I am always your own
                             Arabella.

She kept the letter till the Sunday, thinking that she might have an answer to that written
from Mistletoe, and that his reply might alter its tone, or induce her to put it aside altogether;
but when on Sunday morning none came, her own was sent. The word in it which frightened herself
was the word "engaged." She tried various other phrases, but declared to herself at last that
it was useless to "beat about the bush." He must know the light in which she was pleased to
regard those passages of love which she had permitted so that there might be no mistake. Whether
the letter would be to his liking or not, it must be of such a nature that it would certainly
draw from him an answer on which she could act. She herself did not like the letter; but, considering
her difficulties, we may own that it was not much amiss.

CHAPTER XVIII

Lord Rufford makes up his Mind

As it happened, Lord Rufford got the two letters together, the cause of which was as follows.

When he ran away from Mistletoe, as he certainly did, he had thought much about that journey
home in the carriage, and was quite aware that he had made an ass of himself. As he sat at
dinner on that day at Mistletoe his neighbour had said some word to him in joke as to his attachment
to Miss Trefoil, and after the ladies had left the room another neighbour of the other sex
had hoped that he had had a pleasant time on the road. Again, in the drawing-room it had seemed
to him that he was observed. He could not refrain from saying a few words to Arabella as she
lay on the sofa. Not to do so after what had occurred would have been in itself peculiar. But
when he did so, some other man who was near her made way for him, as though she were acknowledged
to be altogether his property. And then the Duchess had striven to catch him, and lead him
into special conversation. When this attempt was made he decided that he must at once retreat,--or
else make up his mind to marry the young lady. And therefore he retreated.

He breakfasted that morning at the inn at Stamford, and as he smoked his cigar afterwards,
he positively resolved that he would under no circumstances marry Arabella Trefoil. He was
being hunted and run down, and, with the instinct of all animals that are hunted, he prepared
himself for escape. It might be said, no doubt would be said, that he behaved badly. That would
be said because it would not be open to him to tell the truth. The lady in such a case can
always tell her story, with what exaggeration she may please to give, and can complain. The
man never can do so. When inquired into, he cannot say that he has been pursued. He cannot
tell her friends that she began it, and in point of fact did it all. "She would fall into my
arms; she would embrace me; she persisted in asking me whether I loved her!" Though a man have
to be shot for it, or kicked for it, or even though he have to endure perpetual scorn for it,
he cannot say that, let it be ever so true. And yet is a man to be forced into a marriage which
he despises? He would not be forced into the marriage,--and the sooner he retreated the less
would be the metaphorical shooting and kicking and the real scorn. He must get out of it as
best he could;--but that he would get out of it he was quite determined.

