Since my Query was written, a duplicate of the drawing in the Bodleian (minus the inscription),
out of the Strawberry Hill collection, has, curiously enough, appeared in an extensive public
sale. It was likewise said to be by Bulfinch; and farther examination leads me to infer that
both this and the Oxford copy were, in respect of artist, in all probability not incorrectly
described. As Bulfinch lived temp. Charles II., and the Bodleian inscription points to his
original painting, as "in the hands of Mr. Justice Newton," it may fairly be presumed that
a second judge of the name flourished in this reign.

Substantially, then, my original Query yet remains unanswered, notwithstanding C. S. G.'s obliging
reply.

F. KYFFIN LENTHALL.

36. Mount Street, Grosvenor Square.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Mr. Lyte's Treatment of Positives.--It would be quite superfluous, after the very excellent
communication of MR. POLLOCK, were I to give a detailed account of my method of printing albumen
positives, as, in the main, we both follow the process of Mr. Le Gray. But as we both have
our own improvements on the original process, I will ask for space in which to record our differences
in manipulation.

First, in regard to the chloride of gold, I always find, and I believe such is the experience
of many photographers, that all salts of gold, though they heighten the effect at first, have
a slow, but sure, destructive action on the picture.

Next, I find that acetic acid, by generating sulphurous acid, has a similar effect, and my
care was to try and make a solution which should be free from these defects. I first take my
positive, which, as a general rule, I print at least half as dark again as the shade required.
This done, I wash it well with water, and next with salt and water in the proportion of about
half a grain per gallon, or quite a tasteless solution; this removes all the nitrate of silver
from the paper, or if there is any left, the bath of salt decomposes it, leaving none in the
texture of the paper to unite with the hypo., which otherwise forms a sticky substance, difficult
to remove, which may be readily seen on looking through a positive which has been too hastily
finished in the usual way, giving a dark shade, and a want of transparency to the lights. I
then place the picture in a bath composed as follows:

  Sodæ hyposul.              3 oz.
  Argent. chlorid.          70 grs.
  Potassii iodidi            5 grs.
  Pyrogallic acid            1½ to 2 grs.

The iodide of potassium I add on the same principle as MR. POLLOCK's iodide of silver, but
as being {16} more convenient, as immediately on being added it decomposes some of the chloride
of silver, and forms iodide of silver. I am happy to find that MR. POLLOCK confirms me in the
use of this salt; which I had long thought to improve the tone of my pictures. The liquid,
which will become rapidly very dark coloured, must be set aside in an open vessel in a warm
place for some weeks, e.g. till, when a positive is placed in it, left for a short time, and
then washed with water, it shows clean and not mottled in the light. The solution may be kept
always exposed, and much improves by this: if much used, it should be replenished with a simple
solution of hypo. three ounces or two ounces to the pint; if little used, it may be filled
up as much as evaporates with pure water.

The positive is left in this solution till the required tint is obtained, when it is to be
placed in plain hypo. two ounces to the pint, and in about a quarter of an hour transferred
to a basin of pure water, and well washed in several waters. The other detail of MR. POLLOCK's
process is so admirably and clearly given, and so like that I pursue, that I will not trouble
your columns with it again.

The after-bath of pure hypo. is not absolutely necessary; and where it is desired to obtain
fine olive, and dark sepia, and black tints, a better tone results from washing well, long,
and frequently, with water alone.

This bath also gives very rich tints with paper, prepared without albumen: viz.--

  Chloride of ammonium      5 grs.
  Water                     1 oz.

Lay the paper on this, and then hang it up to dry, and excite with ammonio-nitrate containing
seventy grains of nitrate of silver to one ounce of water. Should the above solution not give
the requisite tints soon after being made, add more chloride of silver; but bear in mind that
the solution will then soon become saturated when setting positives, and when this occurs it
must be rectified by the addition of a small portion of fresh hypo. alone.

F. MAXWELL LYTE.

P.S.--I may add that I have only lately tried the addition of the iodide of potassium to my
setting liquid, and so must qualify my recommendation of it by saying so.

Florian, Torquay.

Stereoscopic Angles.--I am obliged to MESSRS. SHADBOLT and WILKINSON for the information given
in reply to my Queries (Vol. vii., p. 505.) My mode of operation is precisely that of MR. WILKINSON:
"I obtain all the information I can from every source; then try, and judge for myself." Hence
the present letter.

I regret to be obliged to differ from MR. SHADBOLT, but there is a point in his communication
which appears to me to arise from a misconception of the stereoscopic problem. He says (p.
557.), "for distant views there is in nature scarcely any stereoscopic effect." Now, surely
visual distance is merely visual stereosity; for, to see an object solid is merely to see its
parts in relief, some of them appearing to project or recede from the others. It is the difficulty
of producing this effect in landscapes, by the ordinary camera process, that renders views
taken by such means so deficient in air, or, as the artists term it, aerial perspective, most
distant objects seeming almost as near as those in the foreground. This indeed is the main
defect of all photographs: they are true representations of nature to one eye--cyclopean pictures,
as it were--appearing perfectly stereoscopic with one eye closed, but seeming absolutely flattened
when viewed by the two eyes. I remember being shown a huge photograph of the city of Berlin,
taken from an eminence; and a more violent caricature of nature I never set eyes upon. It was
almost Chinese in its perspective: the house-tops appeared to have been mangled. It was a wonderful
work of art, photographically considered; but artistically it was positively hideous. But the
same defect exists in all monophotographic representations, though in a less degree, and consequently
less apparent than in views to which a sense of distance is essential. In portraits, the features
appear slightly flattened; and until photographers are able to overcome this, the chief of
all obstacles to perfection, it is idle to talk of the art giving a correct rendering of nature.
This is what is wanted, more than colour, diactinic lenses, multiplication of impressions,
or anything else. And when it is remembered that the law of an ordinary convex lens is, the
farther the object from the lens the nearer the focus, and, vice versâ, the nearer the object
the farther the focus, it becomes evident that by such an instrument distant objects must be
made to appear near, and near objects distant, and nature consequently mangled.

The stereoscope gives us the only demonstrably correct representation of nature; and when that
instrument is rendered more simple, and the peep-show character of the apparatus disconnected
from it, the art of photography will transcend the productions of the painter--but not till then.

I am anxious to obtain all the information I can from such of your photographic readers as
are practically acquainted with the stereoscopic portion of the art relative to the angles
under which they find it best to take their pictures for given distances.

Mr. Fenton, the secretary of the Photographic Society, takes his stereoscopic pictures, when
the objects are 50 feet and upwards from the camera, at 1 in 25. This is, as MR. SHADBOLT states,
Professor Wheatstone's rule for distances. {17}

MR. WILKINSON, on the other hand, asserts that 3 feet in 300 yards is sufficient separation
for the cameras: this is only 1 in 300,--a vast difference truly.

"For views across the Thames," says the editor of the Photographic Journal, "the cameras should
be placed 12 feet apart, and with this separation the effect is declared to be astonishing."

MR. WILKINSON, however, asserts that from 4 to 6 feet in a mile will do well enough!

Farther, Mr. Latimer Clark (the inventor of an ingenious stereoscopic camera) states that with
regard to the distance between the two positions of the cameras, he knows no good reason why
the natural distance of the eyes, viz. 2½ inches, should be much exceeded. "A little extra
relief is obtained," he adds, "without visible distortion, by increasing the separation to
about 4 or 5 inches; but if this distance be greatly exceeded, especially for near objects
(I give the gentleman's own words), they become apparently diminished in size, and have the
appearance of models and dolls rather than natural objects."

The reason for making the separation between the cameras greater than that between the two
eyes, is exceedingly simple. The stereograph is to be looked at much nearer than the object
itself, and consequently is to be seen under a much larger angle than it is viewed by the two
eyes in nature. Hence the two pictures should be taken at the angle under which they are to
be observed in the stereoscope. Suppose the object to be 50 feet distant, then of course it
is seen by the two eyes under an angle of 2½ inches in 50 feet, or 1 in 240. But it is intended
that the stereograph should be seen by the two eyes when but a few inches removed from them,
or generally under an angle of 2½ in 12 inches, or nearly 1 in 5. Hence it is self-evident
that the stereoscopic angle should be considerably larger than that formed by the optic axes
of the two eyes when directed to the object itself.

But there is great diversity of opinion as to the extent of the angles requisite for producing
the precise stereoscopic or distantial effect of nature. For myself I prefer Professor Wheatstone's
rule, 1 in 25 for objects beyond 50 feet distant. For portraits I find the best angle 1 in
10 when the sitter is 10 feet off, and for busts about 1 in 5 when placed about 5 or 6 feet
from the cameras. But I should be happy to receive information from any of your readers concerning
this important branch of the photographic art. For months past I have been engaged in a series
of experiments in connexion with the subject, and wish for larger experience than it is possible
for any single operator to acquire for himself.

Mr. Fenton, I may observe, does not keep the cameras parallel in taking landscapes, but inclines
them so that the same object may occupy as nearly as possible the centre of the ground glass plate.

Nor is it essential that perfect horizontality or parallelism of the cameras should be maintained
in copying trees. For buildings, however, it is absolutely necessary that the cameras be kept
straight.

I am sorry thus to trespass on your space, but being anxious, as MR. WILKINSON says, to collect
information from every source, and your periodical being a happy medium for conveying and receiving
instruction, I am glad to avail myself of such a channel.

[Phi]. (2)

P.S.--Mr. Claudet has, I perceive, been awarded the prize given by the Society of Arts for
the best essay on the stereoscope. Can you, or any of your readers, inform me whether this
is likely to be published, and when and at what price?

Query respecting Mr. Pollock's Process.--In MR. POLLOCK's directions for obtaining positives
which appeared in "N. & Q." (Vol. vii, p. 581.), iodide of silver is to be dissolved in a saturated
solution of hypo. Can you give me the quantity of iodide of silver to be dissolved, and the
quantity of the saturated solution of hypo. in which it is to be dissolved?

N. T. B.

Gallo-nitrate of Silver.--Can you inform me what the true nature of the decomposition is which
takes place after a short time in the gallo-nitrate solution of silver? and if there be any
ready means of rendering the silver it contains again available for photographic use?

SIR W. NEWTON, in the description of his calotype process, says: "Bring out with the saturated
solution of gallic acid, and when the subject begins to appear, add the aceto-nitrate of silver
solution." Which way of doing this is the best,--mixing the two solutions together and applying
them to the paper; or applying the paper, when wetted with the gallic acid, to the silver solution?

T. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Verney Note decyphered (Vol. vii., p. 568.).--I am extremely obliged to MR. THOMPSON COOPER
for his decyphered rendering of Sir Ralph Verney's note of a speech or proceeding in parliament.
The note itself is not now in my possession, but I have requested the owner to be good enough
to re-collate it with the original, and if any mistakes should appear in the copy, or the printing
(which is very likely), I will give you notice of the fact, that the doubtful words in MR.
COOPER's version may, if possible, be set right.

Students in the art of decyphering may be pleased to have the key to the cypher recorded in
{18} your pages. I therefore give it you as discovered by MR. COOPER, and beg, in the strongest
way, to reiterate my thanks to that gentleman.

JOHN BRUCE.

Emblems by John Bunyan (Vol. vii., p. 470.).--This work which MR. CORSER has not met with,
is in the folio edition of his works, forming pp. 849. to 868. of vol. ii. (1768). The plates
are small woodcuts of very indifferent execution.

E. D.

Mr. Cobb's Diary (Vol. vii., p. 477.).--This volume was printed solely for private distribution
by the family, who also presented their relatives and friends (amongst whom the writer was
reckoned) with another volume compiled on the decease of Francis Cobb, Esq., the husband of
Mrs. Cobb, and entitled, Memoir of the late Francis Cobb, Esq., of Margate, compiled from his
Journals and Letters: Maidstone, printed by J. V. Hall and Son, Journal Office, 1835. Both
of these are at the service for perusal of your inquiring correspondent, JOHN MARTIN.

E. D.

"Sat cito si sat bene" (Vol. vii., p. 594.).--I have not Twiss at hand; but I think F. W. J.
is mistaken in calling it a "favourite maxim" of Lord Eldon. I remember to have heard Lord
Eldon tell the story, which was, that the Newcastle Fly, in which he came up to town, in I
forget how many days, had on its panel the motto, "Sat cito si sat bene:" he applied it jocularly
in defence of his own habits in Chancery.

C.

Mythe versus Myth (Vol. vii., pp. 326. 575.).--It gives me much pleasure to have afforded MR.
THIRIOLD an opportunity for displaying so much learning and sagacity; but I hope he does not
imagine that he has confuted me. As I only spoke of words which, like [Greek: muthos], had
a single consonant between two vowels, such words as plinth, labyrinth, &c. have nothing to
do with the question. If mythe, differing from the other examples which are to be found, happens
to have the for its termination, and thus resembles words of Anglo-Saxon origin, I cannot help
it, but it was formed secundum artem. As to MR. THERIOLD's m[=y]th, unless so written and printed,
it will always be pronounced m[)y]th, like the French mythe.

As to the hybrid adjectives, I only wished to avoid increasing the number of them. The French,
I believe, have only one, musical; for though, like ourselves, they have made substantives
of the Greek [Greek: mousikê] (sc. [Greek: technê]), [Greek: phusikê], &c., in all other cases
they retain the Greek form of the adjective, as in physique, substantive and adjective, while
we generally have pairs of adjectives, as philosophic, philosophical; extatic, extatical; &c.
Some may think this an advantage; I do not.

THOS. KEIGHTLEY.

The Gilbert Family (Vol. vii., p. 259).--If your correspondent seeking genealogical information
in reference to my ancestors, calls on me, I will show him a presentation copy of A Genealogical
Memoir of the Gilbert Family in Old and New England, by J. W. Thornton, LL.B., Boston, U. S.,
1850, 8vo. pp. 24, only fifty printed.

JAMES GILBERT.

Alexander Clark (Vol. vii., p. 580.).--I should feel obliged if J. O. could find leisure to
communicate to "N. & Q." some particulars relative to Clark. He is supposed to have been the
author of a curious poem: The Institution and Progress of the Buttery College of Slains, in
the Parish of Cruden, Aberdeenshire; with a Catalogue of the Books and MSS. in the Library
of that University: Aberdeen, 1700. Mr. Peter Buchan thus mentions him in his Gleanings of
Scarce Old Ballads:

    "Clark, a drunken dominie at Slains, author of a poetical dialogue
    between the gardeners and tailors on the origin of their crafts, and a
    most curious Latin and English poem called the 'Buttery College of
    Slains,' which resembled much in language and style Drummond of
    Hawthornden's 'Polemo Middino.'"

This poem is printed in Watson's Collection of Scottish Poems, Edin. 1711; and also noticed
in the Edinburgh Topographical and Antiquarian Magazine, 1848, last page. I am anxious to ascertain
if the emblem writer, and the burlesque poet, be one and the same person. The dates, I confess,
are somewhat against this conclusion; but there may have been a previous edition of the Emblematical
Representation (1779). The University Clark is supposed to have been an Aberdeenshire man.
Possibly J. O. may be able to throw some light on the subject.

PERTHENSIS.

Christ's Cross (Vol. iii., pp. 330. 465.).--In Morley's Introduction to Practical Music, originally
printed in 1597, and which I quote from a reprint by William Randall, in 4to., in 1771, eighteen
mortal pages (42-59), which, in my musical ignorance, I humbly confess to be wholly out of
my line, are occupied with the "Cantus," "Tenor," and "Bassus," to the following words:

    "Christes Crosse be my speed in all vertue to proceede, A, b, c, d, e,
    f, g, h, i, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, & t, double w, v, x, with y,
    ezod, & per se, con per se, tittle tittle est Amen, When you haue done
    begin again, begin again."

J. F. M.

{19}

The Rebellious Prayer (Vol. vii., p. 286.).--J. A. may find the poem, of which he quotes the
opening lines, in the Churchman's Monthly Penny Magazine, October, 1851, with the signature
L. E. P. The magazine is published by Wertheim & Macintosh, 24. Paternoster Row.

M. E.

"To the Lords of Convention" (Vol. vii., p. 596.).--L. EVANS will find the whole of the ballad
of "Bonnie Dundee," the first line of which he quotes, in Sir Walter Scott's Doom of Devorgoil,
where it is introduced as a song. Singularly enough, his best ballad is thus found in his worst
play.

FICULNUS.

