PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

July 4, 1891.

       *       *       *       *       *

URBI ET ORBI.

Mr. PUNCH returns thanks for the anticipatory congratulations on the occasion of his Jubilee,
and takes this opportunity of informing his friends--which means Everybody Everywhere--that
the 50th anniversary of his natal day is July 18 prox., which day Mr. PUNCH hereby gives full
and entire permission to the aforesaid Everyone Everywhere to keep as a whole Holiday, and
do in a general way, and to the utmost of their ability, just exactly what best pleases them.

PUNCH.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHANTREY BEQUEST À LA MODE DE LISLE.

    ["Mr. DE LISLE wished the Government to veto any pictures
    purchased under the Chantrey Bequest that did not meet with
    their approval."--Daily Paper.]

SCENE--A Studio in the Royal Academy. The President and several Members of the Council waiting
arrival of Government to inspect their most recent purchase.

President (with assumed joviality). Well, my dear Colleagues, I do not think exception can
be taken to this composition. Simple and effective, is it not?

First Member of Council (gloomily). Oh, you never know! I think we ought to have opposed the
admission of the Cabinet--what should they know about Art?

Second Mem. (drily). Enough to make speeches at the annual dinner--to which they wouldn't come
if we snubbed them.

First Mem. What of that? I am sure the President is quite eloquent enough to stand alone.

Pres. (with a graceful bow). You are most kind. But, hush! here comes Lord SALISBURY!

Enter the PRIME MINISTER. Cordial greetings.

Premier (briskly). I am sure you will forgive me if I get through this quickly. (Looking at
picture.) Hm! Yes, very nice; but did EDWARD the Black Prince wear his Garter ribbon in battle?
I am sure I refrain from appearing in mine under similar circumstances. (To Pres.) Do you think
the Artist could paint it out?

Pres. I feel sure he will do everything in his power to satisfy your Lordship's artistic instincts.

Premier. Just so.

[Exit R. when enter FIRST LORD of the TREASURY, L.

Pres. (greeting new-comer cordially). Most glad to see you, my dear Right Hon. Sir!

First Lord. Very good indeed of you to say so, but am always anxious to do my duty to my Queen
and Country. (Gazing at picture.) Hm! Not bad! But, I say, I do know something of yachting,
and that isn't the way to brace up the marling-spike to the fokesell yard with the main jibboom
three points in a wind with some East in it! If I may venture a suggestion--hope Artist will
paint out the gondola. Ta-ta! A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. [Exit.

Pres. Well, well, I do not know what our friend will think of the matter, but perhaps the Hansom
of Venice is a little superfluous. Why here is the HOME SECRETARY.

[Enter that august personage--mutual greeting.

Home Sec. (examining picture). Yes, very nice. Just my idea of what a historical picture should
be! Sea-view very fair indeed, and I think that the suggestion of the presentation at Court
is also extremely neat. The Black Prince, perhaps, a little near OLIVER CROMWELL, but then
that is a detail that will not challenge particular attention. I like too the view of Vauxhall
Gardens--very good, indeed! But why should a scene of this great historical importance be laid
in Charing Cross during a labour demonstration?

Pres. (frankly). I cannot say that I have looked up all my authorities, but I do not think
our friend would allow himself to be wrong on so important a point.

Home Sec. Well, I think it would be in better taste if the Artist cut out that stampede of
police--it is not true to nature! [Exit.

Pres. There may be something in what he says, but I do wish these amateurs would keep their
suggestions to themselves.

Enter FIRST LORD of the ADMIRALTY.

Pres. (cordially). My dear Lord, delighted to see you--what do you think of it?

First Lord. Hm! Yes! Perhaps! But, I say, what right has the Artist to put the white ensign
on the top of that light-house? It's against the regulations--they should be flying the Trinity
House flag--if anything. That must come out, you know--it really must! [Exit.

Pres. Silly blunder, but it can be easily remedied. Ah! the Secretary of State for War! (Enter
that official) Well, Mr. STANHOPE, and how do you like the new purchase?

War Minister (after, a glance at the canvas). Tol lol. But come, I say, come; the Iron Duke
never wore a hat like that! And, I say, as it isn't raining, why has he put up his umbrella?
In the cause of historical accuracy that should not be allowed. [Exit.

Pres. (drily). I am afraid our friend will have enough to do. (Enter the remainder of the Cabinet
together). Well, Gentlemen--hope you approve of our purchase?

Remainder (together). Not at all. You should have only bought the frame! [Scene closes in on
the consideration of this new point.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH EXPLAINS.

    [Last week Mr. Punch congratulated King HENRY'S "holy shade"
    on the Four-hundredth Anniversary of the Foundation of Eton
    College.]

  To Mr. Punch's friends, who think he blundered,
  In thinking Eton's years were just four hundred,
  And acted quite in error when he paid
  Congratulations to King HENRY'S "shade,"
  A word of explanation now is due,
  To show how what he stated then was true.
  The word is this--that fifty years have now
  Elapsed since Mr. Punch first made his bow;
  And though since then with many friends he's parted,
  Himself he is as young as when he started.
  Just fifty years ago it now appears
  That fair Etona claimed four hundred years.
  Ungallant it had been if one had told her
  That Mr. Punch kept young whilst she grew older!
  Yet if it is indeed the Fourth Centenary
  Or Jubilee the Ninth since holy 'ENERY
  Became the founder of a Royal College--
  Well, Mr. Punch prefers to have no knowledge.
  He only does not know--has never known a
  More worthy toast than "Floreat Etona!"

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW CRUSADERS.

    ["Kaiser Wilhelm, according to a Berlin Journal, has given his
    consent to a lottery being instituted throughout the Empire
    'for combating the slave trade in Africa.' Tickets to the
    amount of eight millions of marks will be issued, five and
    a half millions of which will be devoted to prizes."--Daily
    Telegraph Berlin Correspondent.]

  KNIGHTS-ERRANT of earth's earlier days,
    Might learn from WILHELM KAISER.
  They risked their lives in Paynim frays,
    We moderns have grown wiser.
  'Tis not enough by Big Bazaars
    To buttress Churches tottery;
  We, with the dice "financing" wars,
    Conduct Crusades--by Lottery!

       *       *       *       *       *

LIVE AND LEARN.--Mr. PARKINSON will now probably admit that the foolish process known as "breaking
a butterfly on a wheel" may bring the breaker woe.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE AND NORTH, NOT CHRISTOPHER.

Colonel NORTH is popularly supposed to have been the architect of his own fortune, but he doesn't
seem to have profited much by his architectural knowledge when applied to house-building. The
burly Colonel--we forget at this moment what regiment is under his distinguished command--has
met many a great personage in his time, but, like the eminent barbarian who encountered a Christian
Archbishop for the first time--St. Ambrose, we rather think it was, but no matter--our bold
Colonel had to climb down a bit on coming face to face with the Lord Chief Justice of England.
What a cast for a scene out of Henry the Fourth! Falstaff, Colonel NORTH, and My Lord COLERIDGE
for the Lord Chief Justice. The scene might be Part II., Act ii., Scene 1, when the Lord Chief
says to Sir John, "You speak as having power to do wrong; but answer, in the effect of your
reputation, and satisfy the poor woman,"--only for "woman," read "architect." Curious that
the name of GAMBLE should be the pre-surname of Mister Colonel NORTH'S brother. What's in a
name? Yet there's a good deal in the sound and look of GAMBLE NORTH, especially when up before
the Lord Chief, who must quite recently have got hold of quite a little library of useful knowledge.
Also odd that most of Mr. NORTH'S money seems to have been made in the South. But "A 1," that
is, the architect, won, and the gallant Mister Colonel, or Colonel Mister, left the Court,
feeling comparatively A-Norther man. Never mind, even the Millionairey Colonel can't always
be lucky.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S QUOTATION BOOK.

I.--FOR INFERIOR CHAMPAGNE.

  'How mad and bad and sad it was--
  But then, how it was sweet!"--BROWNING.

II.--FOR MR. GLADSTONE.

              "Et longa canoros
  Dant per colla modos."--VIRGIL.

III.--FOR THE NEW BISHOP OF LICHFIELD.

"Gaiter.--A covering for the leg."--ENGLISH DICTIONARY.

IV.--FOR A TENNIS-PLAYER, IMPRISONED BY BAD WEATHER.

"They also serve who only stand and wait."--MILTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT ST. JAMES'S HALL.--Hair PADDY REWSKI is a pianofortist up to the time and tune of day. Knowing
that L'Enfant Prodigue is now all the go, he keeps himself up to date by performing the Musical
Prodigy Son's, I mean MENDELSSOHN'S "Songs without Words;" and this so effectively, that the
last wordless song he was obliged to repeat, and much obliged the audience by repeating. Then
the good fellar played La Campanella, Which I prefer to Gentle Zitella, The Princess LOUISE,
&c., were there, and "&c." was really looking uncommonly well considering the heat. Bravo,
PADDY REWSKI! Ould Ireland for ever!

       *       *       *       *       *

OFF TO MASHERLAND.

(By Our Own Grandolph.)

(FIRST LETTER--A.)

1.--From Paddington to the first comma is a comparatively slight stop.

Left Paddington. Was compelled to leave Paddington, as train started from that station. "The
Great Western!" What boundless ideas are suggested by this title, &c., &c. (This part I'll
send to Daily Graphic.)

REASONS FOR THE JOURNEY.

Well, never mind my reasons. I had made up my mind to go. That's enough. "Marlbrook s'en va
t'en guerre," mais as MARLBROOK Junior I may say, "Je reviendrai." Politics to the winds! or,
colloquially, Politics be blowed! I'm off to TOM TIDDLER'S ground. Nice fellow, TIDDLER. Knew
him years ago. He is now a Limited Company, "TIDDLER & Co."

THE COMPOSITION OF THE PARTY.

Well, you know what it was once upon a time. There was A BALFOUR--beg pardon, should say, THE
BALFOUR--and DRUMMY WOLFFY, and De GORSTIBUS non disputandum ("no arguing with GORST"), and
self. As good a quartette, though I say it who shouldn't, as ever sat down to a concerted piece,
with myself as First Fiddle. But now--"Where am dat barty now?"--I don't know if I quote correctly;
quoting correctly is not my forte. "Dat barty," suggests WOLFF; he was the "barty" of our party,
in the merry days of old. Now--none of 'em here, and I with my ink-stand before me, a pencil,
a pen, note-books galore, and any amount of foolscap, represent "the composition" of our party.
I must get on with my "compo." Is reminds me of doing a "Theme" at Eton. This is a holiday
task. One, two, three, off!--and away!

ALL ABROAD.

Before I know where we are, so to speak, we have left London, and are at Lisbon. On the voyage
Captain G. WILLIAMS suggests these lines, to which I append my own translation. BALFOUR rather
behind me in Latin at Eton (I hear by private wire that he admitted as much in his recent speech
at the fourth centenary celebration), and so, perhaps, couldn't give the translation as easily
as I do. Here is the Captain's reminiscence, and my translation when he isn't looking:--

  "Ille terrarum mihi præter omnes
  Angulus ridet, ubi non Hymetto
  Melle decedunt, viridique certat
                   Bacca Venafro.

  "Vir ubi longum tepidusque præbet
  Jupiter brumas, et amicus Aulon,
  Fertili Baccho nimium Falernis
                   Invidet uvis."

Which translated means:--

He, the Englishman (Angulus), beside me (that is, "sitting on deck by my side") laughs at all
people on shore when he is quite certain (certat) that he can't get good tobacco from VENAFER'S
(a local tobacconist). (This) man prefers the long clay pipe, which gets so soon hot, for,
by Jove, you'll burn yourself (brumas), and being a friend of AULON'S ("all on," local joke),
he envies those who can smoke the green tobacco, and doesn't wonder that they go in for Falernian
(classic metaphor for Cape wine).

I think that's pretty good for an old Etonian who could give BALFOUR (the "Four" of the Fourth
Party, a four-oar without a steerer) a mile over any course of VIRGIL or OVID, and beat him easily.

WHERE ARE WE NOW?

En route, called on the Bey of Biscay. Found him in amiable temper--not a bit rough. Lisbon
delightful. Chatsworth not in it with the smallest flower-and-kitchen garden here. Dined at
the "Brag"--short for Braganza. Suddenly inspired--wrote drinking song:--

  Sancho Panza
  At Braganza,
    Quaffed no end of cup,
  But Don Quixit
  Said "Don't mix it--
    Let us go and sup."

Have composed my own music to this--call it my musical cup-yright. Shan't publish it, for fear
of pirates. No other rates at sea, except pi-rates, and the rate we're now going at--i.e.,
two knots an hour, and ties pay the dealer. Hoorah! I enclose portrait of self after the above
symposium, carried round the town to the air of "Please to Remember," &c. Too Novembery perhaps,
but everything too previous here, and it's summer even in winter, and winter's nowhere, except
in some other places. This is the meteorological or illogical rule, the "Summa Lex." Look at
my bearers! These are heads of the people, eh? Carried round town in triumph, and then back
to the ship, which I now look upon as my native place, or the land of my berth!

"ONCE MORE ABOARD THE LUGGER!"

Here we are, off the Cape of Good Hope. HOPE, as you know, was a worthy Admiral who discovered
this place; he is mentioned by the poet as having done so; you remember--

  "Hope told a flattering tale;"

but no one believed him. Wish BALFOUR, GORSTY, and WOLFFY were here, and WOLFFY better than
when I left him. First-rate place to pick up health. Every morning I climb the maintop-gallant,
plunge into the ocean, and out again in the blowing of a Bo'sen's whistle. I dive, grapple
with fresh lobster, bring him up by the tail, and before he knows where he is, he is boiled
and on my table, hot, for breakfast. Excellent lobster! But how he changes colour at being
caught and boiled! Such a breakfast!

QUITE A TROPICAL SONG!

Something spicy at last. Rather! The "Umbrella-tree" magnificent! Spreads out in wet weather,
and folds up when it's fine. Splendid specimen of the "Boot-tree" (Arbor tegumenpedis), and
the quaint "Blacking-Brush Plant," which is its invariable companion. No time to spare, however--off
again to the Grantully Castle, with pockets full of fruits of all kinds. Must take care not
to sit on them in boat. Lemon squash all very well, but a mixed fruit squash in your tail-coat
pocket not so refreshing.

CAPERING.

There are 50,000 souls and as many bodies in Cape Town. Give you my word, it's a fact. I may
have omitted one or two, but saw most of 'em through telescope before landing. There's an old
Town House and a Castle, and an Excellency for Governor; Museum, Library, with Manuscripts
badly illuminated before the discovery of gas; and as good a glass of Port (called here "Port
Elizabeth," after Miss ELIZABETH MARTIN, who first took to it, but didn't finish it, thank
goodness!) as you'd wish to get away from the Turf Club. The little boys toss for halfpence
in the street, which impressed me with the wonderful mineral wealth of South Africa. Having
nothing better to do, I joined them, and won. I lectured them on incautious play, and they
said something in South-African, which the street Arabs here speak to perfection, and which,
I fancy, was both flattering and apologetic. Called on CECIL, the Colossus of Rhodes, but he
was absent at the time. Fine place, the Cape. "Why," I asked myself, "do our people go to Ramsgate,
Southend, Herne Bay, and even Scarborough, when there is such a splendid seaside place as this
to come to?" But no; because their people have done it before them, so they'll go on doing;
and, unlike yours, truly, they won't strike out a line of their own. [N.B.--I must beg the
Editor, when he gets this, not to strike out any line of mine, as it's business, and means
advertisement.]

THE ODD TREK.

Had a game of single-handed poker with one of the Trekkers, and beat him hollow. Not at first,
of course, out of politeness; but at game No. 3 he was nowhere. Bless him, I knew a "trek"
worth any three of his. He wanted to go about with me after this, but he became such a Boer
(that's the origin of our word at home signifying "nuisance") that I cut him, and his pack
of cards too. Just off to see the Dutch races. Shall pick up a little coin over this. You'll
excuse my not writing any more this week, as I have to send a lot of stun to the Daily Graphic,
besides cramming and reading up for it far more than ever I did at Oxford. However, the jeu
d'esprit is well worth the chandelle. You don't want much about local politics--do you? If
so, wire's the word, and I'm there. Looking forward to see What-can-the-Matter-be-Land, also
SAM BEST, and other old friends, with whose names, at least, the papers have already made you
familiar. Must be off now, as I've an interview with the High Commissioner, who does all my
business for me at the native races. Obliged to give him twenty per cent. on commission, and
that, of course, is the reason why he has earned the proud title of "High," which he now deservedly
enjoys. "How's that for High?" And the answer is, "Fifteen per cent. on ordinary business,
and twenty per cent. for a win." Newmarket not in it with this place. So for the present, "Adoo,
adoo!" Mind you, I've got my eyes open, and this is my tip for all the country out here, "White
to win in a few moves," [to which I shall soon be able to put you up], and "Black not to win
anyhow." Very hot out here; dry work, scribbling; but luckily in the Orange Free State that
delicious fruit can be had for the asking. Tell GORSTY that, and WOLFFY can use the information,
if he likes, till I return. Au revoir! Yours ever,

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEER QUERIES.--AUTHORSHIP.--I should be glad to know the name of a Publisher of repute who
would be likely to purchase for £1000 a first-rate Sensational Novel? I have only written one
chapter so far, but I have the plot in my head, and I think a really able and energetic Publisher
would be able to judge of the work from a small specimen. Which was the Firm that gave GEORGE
ELIOT £5000 for Middlemarch? I should like to go to them.--NO JUGGINS.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

