"Yes, yes," exclaimed George, "but the remedies are worse than the disease."

"You deceive yourself," replied the other.

"You are trying to make me believe that I can be cured?"

"You can be."

"And that I am not condemned?"

"I swear it to you."

"You are not deceiving yourself, you are not deceiving me? Why, I was told--"

The doctor laughed, contemptuously. "You were told, you were told! I'll wager that you know
the laws of the Chinese concerning party-walls."

"Yes, naturally," said George. "But I don't see what they have to do with it."

"Instead of teaching you such things," was the reply, "it would have been a great deal better
to have taught you about the nature and cause of diseases of this sort. Then you would have
known how to avoid the contagion. Such knowledge should be spread abroad, for it is the most
important knowledge in the world. It should be found in every newspaper."

This remark gave George something of a shock, for his father had owned a little paper in the
provinces, and he had a sudden vision of the way subscribers would have fallen off, if he had
printed even so much as the name of this vile disease.

"And yet," pursued the doctor, "you publish romances about adultery!"

"Yes," said George, "that's what the readers want."

"They don't want the truth about venereal diseases," exclaimed the other. "If they knew the
full truth, they would no longer think that adultery was romantic and interesting."

He went on to give his advice as to the means of avoiding such diseases. There was really but
one rule. It was: To love but one woman, to take her as a virgin, and to love her so much that
she would never deceive you. "Take that from me," added the doctor, "and teach it to your son,
when you have one."

George's attention was caught by this last sentence.

"You mean that I shall be able to have children?" he cried.

"Certainly," was the reply.

"Healthy children?"

"I repeat it to you; if you take care of yourself properly for a long time, conscientiously,
you have little to fear."

"That's certain?"

"Ninety-nine times out of a hundred."

George felt as if he had suddenly emerged from a dungeon. "Why, then," he exclaimed, "I shall
be able to marry!"

"You will be able to marry," was the reply.

"You are not deceiving me? You would not give me that hope, you would not expose me? How soon
will I be able to marry?"

"In three or four years," said the doctor.

"What!" cried George in consternation. "In three or four years? Not before?"

"Not before."

"How is that? Am I going to be sick all that time? Why, you told me just now--"

Said the doctor: "The disease will no longer be dangerous to you, yourself--but you will be
dangerous to others."

"But," the young man cried, in despair, "I am to be married a month from now."

"That is impossible."

"But I cannot do any differently. The contract is ready! The banns have been published! I have
given my word!"

"Well, you are a great one!" the doctor laughed. "Just now you were looking for your revolver!
Now you want to be married within the month."

"But, Doctor, it is necessary!"

"But I forbid it."

"As soon as I knew that the disease is not what I imagined, and that I could be cured, naturally
I didn't want to commit suicide. And as soon as I make up my mind not to commit suicide, I
have to take up my regular life. I have to keep my engagements; I have to get married."

"No," said the doctor.

"Yes, yes!" persisted George, with blind obstinacy. "Why, Doctor, if I didn't marry it would
be a disaster. You are talking about something you don't understand. I, for my part--it is
not that I am anxious to be married. As I told you, I had almost a second family. Lizette's
little brothers adored me. But it is my aunt, an old maid; and, also, my mother is crazy about
the idea. If I were to back out now, she would die of chagrin. My aunt would disinherit me,
and she is the one who has the family fortune. Then, too, there is my father-in-law, a regular
dragoon for his principles--severe, violent. He never makes a joke of serious things, and I
tell you it would cost me dear, terribly dear. And, besides, I have given my word."

"You must take back your word."

"You still insist?" exclaimed George, in despair. "But then, suppose that it were possible,
how could I take back my signature which I put at the bottom of the deed? I have pledged myself
to pay in two months for the attorney's practice I have purchased!"

"Sir," said the doctor, "all these things--"

"You are going to tell me that I was lacking in prudence, that I should never have disposed
of my wife's dowry until after the honeymoon!"

"Sir," said the doctor, again, "all these considerations are foreign to me. I am a physician,
and nothing but a physician, and I can only tell you this: If you marry before three or four
years, you will be a criminal."

George broke out with a wild exclamation. "No sir, you are not merely a physician! You are
also a confessor! You are not merely a scientist; and it is not enough for you that you observe
me as you would some lifeless thing in your laboratory, and say, 'You have this; science says
that; now go along with you.' All my existence depends upon you. It is your duty to listen
to me, because when you know everything you will understand me, and you will find some way
to cure me within a month."

"But," protested the doctor, "I wear myself out telling you that such means do not exist. I
shall not be certain of your cure, as much as any one can be certain, in less than three or
four years."

George was almost beside himself. "I tell you you must find some means! Listen to me, sir--if
I don't get married I don't get the dowry! And will you tell me how I can pay the notes I have
signed?"

"Oh," said the doctor, dryly, "if that is the question, it is very simple--I will give you
a plan to get out of the affair. You will go and get acquainted with some rich man; you will
do everything you can to gain his confidence; and when you have succeeded, you will plunder him."

George shook his head. "I am not in any mood for joking."

"I am not joking," replied his adviser. "Rob that man, assassinate him even--that would be
no worse crime than you would commit in taking a young girl in good health in order to get
a portion of her dowry, when at the same time you would have to expose her to the frightful
consequences of the disease which you would give her."

"Frightful consequences?" echoed George.

"Consequences of which death would not be the most frightful."

"But, sir, you were saying to me just now--"

"Just now I did not tell you everything. Even reduced, suppressed a little by our remedies,
the disease remains mysterious, menacing, and in its sum, sufficiently grave. So it would be
an infamy to expose your fiancee in order to avoid an inconvenience, however great that might be."

But George was still not to be convinced. Was it certain that this misfortune would befall
Henriette, even with the best attention?

Said the other: "I do not wish to lie to you. No, it is not absolutely certain, it is probable.
And there is another truth which I wish to tell you now: our remedies are not infallible. In
a certain number of cases--a very small number, scarcely five per cent--they have remained
without effect. You might be one of those exceptions, your wife might be one. What then?"

"I will employ a word you used just now, yourself. We should have to expect the worst catastrophes."

George sat in a state of complete despair.

"Tell me what to do, then," he said.

"I can tell you only one thing: don't marry. You have a most serious blemish. It is as if you
owed a debt. Perhaps no one will ever come to claim it; on the other hand, perhaps a pitiless
creditor will come all at once, presenting a brutal demand for immediate payment. Come now--you
are a business man. Marriage is a contract; to marry without saying anything--that means to
enter into a bargain by means of passive dissimulation. That's the term, is it not? It is dishonesty,
and it ought to come under the law."

George, being a lawyer, could appreciate the argument, and could think of nothing to say to it.

"What shall I do?" he asked.

The other answered, "Go to your father-in-law and tell him frankly the truth."

"But," cried the young man, wildly, "there will be no question then of three or four years'
delay. He will refuse his consent altogether."

"If that is the case," said the doctor, "don't tell him anything."

"But I have to give him a reason, or I don't know what he will do. He is the sort of man to
give himself to the worst violence, and again my fiancee would be lost to me. Listen, doctor.
From everything I have said to you, you may perhaps think I am a mercenary man. It is true
that I want to get along in the world, that is only natural. But Henriette has such qualities;
she is so much better than I, that I love her, really, as people love in novels. My greatest
grief--it is not to give up the practice I have bought--although, indeed, it would be a bitter
blow to me; my greatest grief would be to lose Henriette. If you could only see her, if you
only knew her--then you would understand. I have her picture here--"

The young fellow took out his card-case. And offered a photograph to the doctor, who gently
refused it. The other blushed with embarrassment.

"I beg your pardon," he said, "I am ridiculous. That happens to me, sometimes. Only, put yourself
in my place--I love her so!" His voice broke.

"My dear boy," said the doctor, feelingly, "that is exactly why you ought not to marry her."

"But," he cried, "if I back out without saying anything they will guess the truth, and I shall
be dishonored."

"One is not dishonored because one is ill."

"But with such a disease! People are so stupid. I myself, yesterday--I should have laughed
at anyone who had got into such a plight; I should have avoided him, I should have despised
him!" And suddenly George broke down again. "Oh!" he cried, "if I were the only one to suffer;
but she--she is in love with me. I swear it to you! She is so good; and she will be so unhappy!"

The doctor answered, "She would be unhappier later on."

"It will be a scandal!" George exclaimed.

"You will avoid one far greater," the other replied.

Suddenly George set his lips with resolution. He rose from his seat. He took several twenty-franc
pieces from his pocket and laid them quietly upon the doctor's desk--paying the fee in cash,
so that he would not have to give his name and address. He took up his gloves, his cane and
his hat, and rose.

"I will think it over," he said. "I thank you, Doctor. I will come back next week as you have
told me. That is--probably I will."

He was about to leave.

The doctor rose, and he spoke in a voice of furious anger. "No," he said, "I shan't see you
next week, and you won't even think it over. You came here knowing what you had; you came to
ask advice of me, with the intention of paying no heed to it, unless it conformed to your wishes.
A superficial honesty has driven you to take that chance in order to satisfy your conscience.
You wanted to have somebody upon whom you could put off, bye and bye, the consequences of an
act whose culpability you understand! No, don't protest! Many of those who come here think
and act as you think, and as you wish to act; but the marriage made against my will has generally
been the source of such calamities that now I am always afraid of not having been persuasive
enough, and it even seems to me that I am a little to blame for these misfortunes. I should
have been able to prevent them; they would not have happened if those who are the authors of
them knew what I know and had seen what I have seen. Swear to me, sir, that you are going to
break off that marriage!"

George was greatly embarrassed, and unwilling to reply. "I cannot swear to you at all, Doctor;
I can only tell you again that I will think it over."

"That WHAT over?"

"What you have told me."

"What I have told you is true! You cannot bring any new objections; and I have answered those
which you have presented to me; therefore, your mind ought to be made up."

Groping for a reply, George hesitated. He could not deny that he had made inquiry about these
matters before he had come to the doctor. But he said that he was not al all certain that he
had this disease. The doctor declared it, and perhaps it was true, but the most learned physicians
were sometimes deceived.

He remembered something he had read in one of the medical books. "Dr. Ricord maintains that
after a certain period the disease is no longer contagious. He has proven his contentions by
examples. Today you produce new examples to show that he is wrong! Now, I want to do what's
right, but surely I have the right to think it over. And when I think it over, I realize that
all the evils with which you threaten me are only probable evils. In spite of your desire to
terrify me, you have been forced to admit that possibly my marriage would not have any troublesome
consequence for my wife."

The doctor found difficulty in restraining himself. But he said, "Go on. I will answer you
afterwards."

And George blundered ahead in his desperation. "Your remedies are powerful, you tell me; and
for the calamities of which you speak to befall me, I would have to be among the rare exceptions--also
my wife would have to be among the number of those rare exceptions. If a mathematician were
to apply the law of chance to these facts, the result of his operation would show but slight
chance of a catastrophe, as compared with the absolute certainty of a series of misfortunes,
sufferings, troubles, tears, and perhaps tragic accidents which the breaking of my engagement
would cause. So I say that the mathematician--who is, even more than you, a man of science,
a man of a more infallible science--the mathematician would conclude that wisdom was not with
you doctors, but with me."

"You believe it, sir!" exclaimed the other. "But you deceive yourself." And he continued, driving
home his point with a finger which seemed to George to pierce his very soul. "Twenty cases
identical with your own have been patiently observed, from the beginning to the end. Nineteen
times the woman was infected by her husband; you hear me, sir, nineteen times out of twenty!
You believe that the disease is without danger, and you take to yourself the right to expose
your wife to what you call the chance of your being one of those exceptions, for whom our remedies
are without effect. Very well; it is necessary that you should know the disease which your
wife, without being consulted, will run a chance of contracting. Take that book, sir; it is
the work of my teacher. Read it yourself. Here, I have marked the passage."

He held out the open book; but George could not lift a hand to take it.

"You do not wish to read it?" the other continued. "Listen to me." And in a voice trembling
with passion, he read: "'I have watched the spectacle of an unfortunate young woman, turned
into a veritable monster by means of a syphilitic infection. Her face, or rather let me say
what was left of her face, was nothing but a flat surface seamed with scars.'"

George covered his face, exclaiming, "Enough, sir! Have mercy!"

But the other cried, "No, no! I will go to the very end. I have a duty to perform, and I will
not be stopped by the sensibility of your nerves."

He went on reading: "'Of the upper lip not a trace was left; the ridge of the upper gums appeared
perfectly bare.'" But then at the young man's protests, his resolution failed him. "Come,"
he said, "I will stop. I am sorry for you--you who accept for another person, for the woman
you say you love, the chance of a disease which you cannot even endure to hear described. Now,
from whom did that woman get syphilis? It is not I who am speaking, it is the book. 'From a
miserable scoundrel who was not afraid to enter into matrimony when he had a secondary eruption.'
All that was established later on--'and who, moreover, had thought it best not to let his wife
be treated for fear of awakening her suspicions!'"

The doctor closed the book with a bang. "What that man has done, sir, is what you want to do."

George was edging toward the door; he could no longer look the doctor in the eye. "I should
deserve all those epithets and still more brutal ones if I should marry, knowing that my marriage
would cause such horrors. But that I do not believe. You and your teachers--you are specialists,
and consequently you are driven to attribute everything to the disease you make the subject
of your studies. A tragic case, an exceptional case, holds a kind of fascination for you; you
think it can never be talked about enough."

"I have heard that argument before," said the doctor, with an effort at patience.

"Let me go on, I beg you," pleaded George. "You have told me that out of every seven men there
is one syphilitic. You have told me that there are one hundred thousand in Paris, coming and
going, alert, and apparently well."

"It is true," said the doctor, "that there are one hundred thousand who are actually at this
moment not visibly under the influence of the disease. But many thousands have passed into
our hospitals, victims of the most frightful ravages that our poor bodies can support. These--you
do not see them, and they do not count for you. But again, if it concerned no one but yourself,
you might be able to argue thus. What I declare to you, what I affirm with all the violence
of my conviction, is that you have not the right to expose a human creature to such chances--rare,
as I know, but terrible, as I know still better. What have you to answer to that?"

"Nothing," stammered George, brought to his knees at last. "You are right about that. I don't
know what to think."

"And in forbidding you marriage," continued the doctor, "is it the same as if I forbade it
forever? Is it the same as if I told you that you could never be cured? On the contrary, I
hold out to you every hope; but I demand of you a delay of three or four years, because it
will take me that time to find out if you are among the number of those unfortunate ones whom
I pity with all my heart, for whom the disease is without mercy; because during that time you
will be dangerous to your wife and to your children. The children I have not yet mentioned to you."

Here the doctor's voice trembled slightly. He spoke with moving eloquence. "Come, sir, you
are an honest man; you are too young for such things not to move you; you are not insensible
to duty. It is impossible that I shan't be able to find a way to your heart, that I shan't
be able to make you obey me. My emotion in speaking to you proves that I appreciate your suffering,
that I suffer with you. It is in the name of my sincerity that I implore you. You have admitted
it--that you have not the right to expose your wife to such miseries. But it is not only your
wife that you strike; you may attack in her your own children. I exclude you for a moment from
my thought--you and her. It is in the name of these innocents that I implore you; it is the
future, it is the race that I defend. Listen to me, listen to me! Out of the twenty households
of which I spoke, only fifteen had children; these fifteen had twenty-eight. Do you know how
many out of these twenty-eight survived? Three, sir! Three out of twenty-eight! Syphilis is
above everything a murderer of children. Herod reigns in France, and over all the earth, and
begins each year his massacre of the innocents; and if it be not blasphemy against the sacredness
of life, I say that the most happy are those who have disappeared. Visit our children's hospitals!
We know too well the child of syphilitic parents; the type is classical; the doctors can pick
it out anywhere. Those little old creatures who have the appearance of having already lived,
and who have kept the stigmata of all out infirmities, of all our decay. They are the victims
of fathers who have married, being ignorant of what you know--things which I should like to
go and cry out in the public places."

The doctor paused, and then in a solemn voice continued: "I have told you all, without exaggeration.
Think it over. Consider the pros and cons; sum up the possible misfortunes and the certain
miseries. But disregard yourself, and consider that there are in one side of the scales the
misfortunes of others, and in the other your own. Take care that you are just."

George was at last overcome. "Very well," he said, "I give way. I won't get married. I will
invent some excuse; I will get a delay of six months. More than that, I cannot do."

The doctor exclaimed, "I need three years--I need four years!"

"No, Doctor!" persisted George. "You can cure me in less time than that."

The other answered, "No! No! No!"

George caught him by the hand, imploringly. "Yes! Science in all powerful!"

"Science is not God," was the reply. "There are no longer any miracles."

"If only you wanted to do it!" cried the young man, hysterically. "You are a learned man; seek,
invent, find something! Try some new plan with me; give me double the dose, ten times the does;
make me suffer. I give myself up to you; I will endure everything--I swear it! There ought
to be some way to cure me within six months. Listen to me! I tell you I can't answer for myself
with that delay. Come; it is in the name of my wife, in the name of my children, that I implore
you. Do something for them!"

The doctor had reached the limit of his patience. "Enough, sir!" he cried. "Enough!"

But nothing could stop the wretched man. "On my knees!" he cried. "I put myself on my knees
before you! Oh! If only you would do it! I would bless you; I would adore you, as one adores
a god! All my gratitude, all my life--half my fortune! For mercy's sake, Doctor, do something;
invent something; make some discovery--have pity!"

The doctor answered gravely, "Do you wish me to do more for you than for the others?"

George answered, unblushingly, 'answered, unblushingly, "Yes!" He was beside himself with terror
and distress.

The other's reply was delivered in a solemn tone. "Understand, sir, for every one of out patients
we do all that we can, whether it be the greatest personage, or the last comer to out hospital
clinic. We have no secrets in reserve for those who are more fortunate, or less fortunate than
the others, and who are in a hurry to be cured."

George gazed at him for a moment in bewilderment and despair, and then suddenly bowed his head.
"Good-by, Doctor," he answered.

"Au revoir, sir," the other corrected--with what proved to be prophetic understanding. For
George was destined to see him again--even though he had made up his mind to the contrary!

CHAPTER III

George Dupont had the most important decision of his life to make; but there was never very
much doubt what his decision would be. One the one hand was the definite certainty that if
he took the doctor's advice, he would wreck his business prospects, and perhaps also lose the
woman he loved. On the other hand were vague and uncertain possibilities which it was difficult
for him to make real to himself. It was all very well to wait a while to be cured of the dread
disease; but to wait three or four years--that was simply preposterous!

He decided to consult another physician. He would find one this time who would not be so particular,
who would be willing to take some trouble to cure him quickly. He began to notice the advertisements
which were scattered over the pages of the newspapers he read. There were apparently plenty
of doctors in Paris who could cure him, who were willing to guarantee to cure him. After much
hesitation, he picked out one whose advertisement sounded the most convincing.

The office was located in a cheap quarter. It was a dingy place, not encumbered with works
of art, but with a few books covered with dust. The doctor himself was stout and greasy, and
he rubbed his hands with anticipation at the sight of so prosperous-looking a patient. But
he was evidently a man of experience, for he knew exactly what was the matter with George,
almost without the formality of an examination. Yes, he could cure him, quickly, he said. There
had recently been great discoveries made--new methods which had not reached the bulk of the
profession. He laughed at the idea of three or four years. That was the way with those specialists!
When one got forty francs for a consultation, naturally, one was glad to drag out the case.
There were tricks in the medical trade, as in all others. A doctor had to live; when he had
a big name, he had to live expensively.

The new physician wrote out two prescriptions, and patted George on the shoulder as he went
away. There was no need for him to worry; he would surely be well in three months. If he would
put off his marriage for six months, he would be doing everything within reason. And meantime,
there was no need for him to worry himself--things would come out all right. So George went
away, feeling as if a mountain had been lifted from his shoulders.

He went to see Henriette that same evening, to get the matter settled. "Henriette," he said,
"I have to tell you something very important--something rather painful. I hope you won't let
it disturb you too much."

She was gazing at him in alarm. "What is it?"

"Why," he said, blushing in spite of himself, and regretting that he had begun the matter so
precipitately, "for some time I've not been feeling quite well. I've been having a slight cough.
Have you noticed it?"

"Why no!" exclaimed Henriette, anxiously.

"Well, today I went to see a doctor, and he says that there is a possibility--you understand
it is nothing very serious--but it might be--I might possibly have lung trouble."

"George!" cried the girl in horror.

He put his hand upon hers. "Don't be frightened," he said. "It will be all right, only I have
to take care of myself." How very dear of her, he thought--to be so much worried!

"George, you ought to go away to the country!" she cried. "You have been working too hard.
I always told you that if you shut yourself up so much--"

"I am going to take care of myself," he said. "I realize that it is necessary. I shall be all
right--the doctor assured me there was no doubt of it, so you are not to distress yourself.
But meantime, here is the trouble: I don't think it would be right for me to marry until I
am perfectly well."

Henriette gave an exclamation of dismay.

"I am sure we should put it off," he went on, "it would be only fair to you."

"But, George!" she protested. "Surely it can't be that serious!"

"We ought to wait," he said. "You ought not to take the chance of being married to a consumptive."

The other protested in consternation. He did not look like a consumptive; she did not believe
that he WAS a consumptive. She was willing to take her chances. She loved him, and she was
not afraid. But George insisted--he was sure that he ought not to marry for six months.

"Did the doctor advise that?" asked Henriette.

"No," he replied, "but I made up my mind after talking to him that I must do the fair and honorable
thing. I beg you to forgive me, and to believe that I know best."

George stood firmly by this position, and so in the end she had to give way. It did not seem
quite modest in her to continue persisting.

George volunteered to write a letter to her father; and he hoped this would settle the matter
without further discussion. But in this he was disappointed. There had to be a long correspondence
with long arguments and protestations from Henriette's father and from his own mother. It seemed
such a singular whim. Everybody persisted in diagnosing his symptoms, in questioning him about
what the doctor had said, who the doctor was, how he had come to consult him--all of which,
of course, was very embarrassing to George, who could not see why they had to make such a fuss.
He took to cultivating a consumptive look, as well as he could imagine it; he took to coughing
as he went about the house--and it was all he could do to keep from laughing, as he saw the
look of dismay on his poor mother's face. After all, however, he told himself that he was not
deceiving her, for the disease he had was quite as serious as tuberculosis.

It was very painful and very trying. But there was nothing that could be done about it; the
marriage had been put off for six months, and in the meantime he and Henriette had to control
their impatience and make the best of their situation. Six months was a long time; but what
if it had been three or four years, as the other doctor had demanded? That would have been
a veritable sentence of death.

George, as we have seen, was conscientious, and regular and careful in his habits. He took
the medicine which the new doctor prescribed for him; and day by day he watched, and to his
great relief saw the troublesome symptoms gradually disappearing. He began to take heart, and
to look forward to life with his former buoyancy. He had had a bad scare, but now everything
was going to be all right.

Three or four months passed, and the doctor told him he was cured. He really was cured, so
far as he could see. He was sorry, now, that he had asked for so long a delay from Henriette;
but the new date for the wedding had been announced, and it would be awkward to change it again.
George told himself that he was being "extra careful," and he was repaid for the inconvenience
by the feeling of virtue derived from the delay. He was relieved that he did not have to cough
any more, or to invent any more tales of his interviews with the imaginary lung-specialist.
Sometimes he had guilty feelings because of all the lying he had had to do; but he told himself
that it was for Henriette's sake. She loved him as much as he loved her. She would have suffered
needless agonies had she known the truth; she would never have got over it--so it would have
been a crime to tell her.

He really loved her devotedly, thoroughly. From the beginning he had thought as much of her
mental sufferings as he had of any physical harm that the dread disease might do to him. How
could he possibly persuade himself to give her up, when he knew that the separation would break
her heart and ruin her whole life? No; obviously, in such a dilemma, it was his duty to use
his own best judgment, and get himself cured as quickly as possible. After that he would be
true to her, he would take no more chances of a loathsome disease.

The secret he was hiding made him feel humble--made him unusually gentle in his attitude towards
the girl. He was a perfect lover, and she was ravished with happiness. She thought that all
his sufferings were because of his love for her, and the delay which he had imposed out of
his excess of conscientiousness. So she loved him more and more, and never was there a happier
bride than Henriette Loches, when at last the great day arrived.

They went to the Riveria for their honeymoon, and then returned to live in the home which had
belonged to George's father. The investment in the notary's practice had proven a good one,
and so life held out every promise for the young couple. They were divinely happy.

After a while, the bride communicated to her husband the tidings that she was expecting a child.
Then it seemed to George that the cup of his earthly bliss was full. His ailment had slipped
far into the background of his thoughts, like an evil dream which he had forgotten. He put
away the medicines in the bottom of his trunk and dismissed the whole matter from his mind.
Henriette was well--a very picture of health, as every one agreed. The doctor had never seen
a more promising young mother, he declared, and Madame Dupont, the elder, bloomed with fresh
life and joy as she attended her daughter-in-law.

Henriette went for the summer to her father's place in the provinces, which she and George
had visited before their marriage. They drove out one day to the farm where they had stopped.
The farmer's wife had a week-old baby, the sight of which made Henriette's heart leap with
delight. He was such a very healthy baby that George conceived the idea that this would be
the woman to nurse his own child, in case Henriette herself should not be able to do it.

They came back to the city, and there the baby was born. As George paced the floor, waiting
for the news, the memory of his evil dreams came back to him. He remembered all the dreadful
monstrosities of which he had read--infants that were born of syphilitic parents. His heart
stood still when the nurse came into the room to tell him the tidings.

But it was all right; of course it was all right! He had been a fool, he told himself, as he
stood in the darkened room and gazed at the wonderful little mite of life which was the fruit
of his love. It was a perfect child, the doctor said--a little small, to be sure, but that
was a defect which would soon be remedied. George kneeled by the bedside and kissed the hand
of his wife, and went out of the room feeling as if he had escaped from a tomb.

All went well, and after a couple of weeks Henriette was about the house again, laughing all
day and singing with joy. But the baby did not gain quite as rapidly as the doctor had hoped,
and it was decided that the country air would be better for her. So George and his mother paid
a visit to the farm in the country, and arranged that the country woman should put her own
child to nurse elsewhere and should become the foster-mother of little Gervaise.

George paid a good price for the service, far more than would have been necessary, for the
simple country woman was delighted with the idea of taking care of the grandchild of the deputy
of her district. George came home and told his wife about this and had a merry time as he pictured
the woman boasting about it to the travelers who stopped at her door. "Yes, ma'am, a great
piece of luck I've got, ma'am. I've got the daughter of the daughter of our deputy--at your
service ma'am. My! But she is as fat as out little calf--and so clever! She understands everything.
A great piece of luck for me, ma'am. She's the daughter of the daughter of our deputy!" Henriette
was vastly entertained, discovering in her husband a new talent, that of an actor.

As for George's mother, she was hardly to be persuaded from staying in the country with the
child. She went twice a week, to make sure that all went well. Henriette and she lived with
the child's picture before them; they spent their time sewing on caps and underwear--all covered
with laces and frills and pink and blue ribbons. Every day, when George came home from his
work, he found some new article completed, and was ravished by the scent of some new kind of
sachet powder. What a lucky man he was!

You would think he must have been the happiest man in the whole city of Paris. But George,
alas, had to pay the penalty for his early sins. There was, for instance, the deception he
had practiced upon his friend, away back in the early days. Now he had friends of his own,
and he could not keep these friends from visiting him; and so he was unquiet with the fear
that some one of them might play upon him the same vile trick. Even in the midst of his radiant
happiness, when he knew that Henriette was hanging upon his every word, trembling with delight
when she heard his latchkey in the door--still he could not drive away the horrible thought
that perhaps all this might be deception.

There was his friend, Gustave, for example. He had been a friend of Henriette's before her
marriage; he had even been in love with her at one time. And now he came sometimes to the house--once
or twice when George was away! What did that mean? George wondered. He brooded over it all
day, but dared not drop any hint to Henriette. But he took to setting little traps to catch
her; for instance, he would call her up on the telephone, disguising his voice. "Hello! Hello!
Is that you, Madame Dupont?" And when she answered, "It is I, sir," all unsuspecting, he would
inquire, "Is George there?"

"No, sir," she replied. "Who is this speaking?"

He answered, "It is I, Gustave. How are you this morning?" He wanted to see what she would
answer. Would she perhaps say, "Very well, Gustave. How are you?"--in a tone which would betray
too great intimacy!

But Henriette was a sharp young person. The tone did not sound like Gustave's. She asked in
bewilderment, "What?" and then again, "What?"

So, at last, George, afraid that his trick might be suspected, had to burst out laughing, and
turn it into a joke. But when he came home and teased his wife about it, the laugh was not
all on his side. Henriette had guessed the real meaning of his joke! She did not really mind--she
took his jealousy as a sign of love, and was pleased with it. It is not until a third party
come upon the scene that jealousy begins to be annoying.

So she had a merry time teasing George. "You are a great fellow! You have no idea how well
I understand you--and after only a year of marriage!"

"You know me?" said the husband, curiously. (It is always so fascinating when anybody thinks
she know us better than we know ourselves!) "Tell me, what do you think about me?"

"You are restless," said Henriette. "You are suspicious. You pass your time putting flies in
your milk, and inventing wise schemes to get them out."

"Oh, you think that, do you?" said George, pleased to be talked about.

"I am not annoyed," she answered. "You have always been that way--and I know that it's because
at bottom you are timid and disposed to suffer. And then, too, perhaps you have reasons for
not having confidence in a wife's intimate friends--lady-killer that you are!"

George found this rather embarrassing; but he dared not show it, so he laughed gayly. "I don't
know what you mean," he said--"upon my word I don't. But it is a trick I would not advise everybody
to try."

There were other embarrassing moments, caused by George's having things to conceal. There was,
for instance, the matter of the six months' delay in the marriage--about which Henriette would
never stop talking. She begrudged the time, because she had got the idea that little Gervaise
was six months younger than she otherwise would have been. "That shows your timidity again,"
she would say. "The idea of your having imagined yourself a consumptive!"

Poor George had to defend himself. "I didn't tell you half the truth, because I was afraid
of upsetting you. It seemed I had the beginning of chronic bronchitis. I felt it quite keenly
whenever I took a breath, a deep breath--look, like this. Yes--I felt--here and there, on each
side of the chest, a heaviness--a difficulty--"

