  Ye that guard the infant's rest,
    Or watch the maiden's pillow;--
  Demons seek their home unblest
    'Neath Ocean's deepest billow:
  Harmless now the dreams that play
  O'er slumbering eyes, then haste away.

  Farewell lovely scenes, that here
    Wait the day god's shining;
  We must follow Dian's sphere
    O'er the hills declining.
  Brighter comes the beam of day--
  Haste ye, Fairies, haste away.

G.J.

        *       *       *       *       *

DREAMS PRODUCED BY WHISPERING IN THE SLEEPER'S EAR.

  DRYDEN.

Dr. Abercrombie, in his work on the Intellectual Powers, has recorded several instances of
remarkable dreams.--Among them is the following extraordinary instance of the power which may
be exercised over some persons while asleep, of creating dreams by whispering in their ears.
An officer in the expedition to Lanisburg, in 1758, had this peculiarity in so remarkable a
degree, that his companions in the transport were in the constant habit of amusing themselves
at his expense. It had more effect when the voice was that of a friend familiar to him. At
one time they conducted him through the whole progress of a quarrel, which ended in a duel,
and when the parties were supposed to be met, a pistol was put into his hand, which he fired,
and was awakened by the report. On another occasion they found him asleep on the top of a locker,
or bunker, in the cabin, when they made him believe he had fallen overboard, and exhorted him
to save himself by swimming. They then told him a shark was pursuing him, and entreated him
to dive for his life; this he instantly did, but with such force as to throw himself from the
locker to the cabin floor, by which he was much bruised, and awakened of course. After the
landing of the army at Lanisburg, his companions found him one day asleep in the tent, and
evidently much annoyed by the cannonading. They then made him believe he was engaged, when
he expressed great fear, and an evident disposition to run away. Against this they remonstrated,
but at the same time increased his fears by imitating the groans of the wounded and the dying;
and when he asked, as he sometimes did, who were down, they named his particular friends. At
last they told him that the man next him in the line had fallen, when he instantly sprang from
his bed, rushed out of the tent, and was roused from his danger and his dream together, by
falling over the tent ropes.

By the by, all this is quite contrary to Dryden's theory, who says--

  "As one who in a frightful dream would shun
  His pressing foe, labours in vain to run;
  And his own slowness in his sleep bemoans,
  With thick short sighs, weak cries, and tender groans."

And again, in his Virgil--

  "When heavy sleep has closed the sight,
  And sickly fancy labours in the night,
  We seem to run, and, destitute of force,
  Our sinking limbs forsake us in the course;
  In vain we heave for breath--in vain we cry--
  The nerves unbraced, their usual strength deny,
  And on the tongue the flattering accents die."

Now this man seems to have had the use not only of his limbs, but of his faculty of speech,
while dreaming; and it was not till after he awoke that he felt the oppression Dryden describes;
for it is stated, that when he awoke he had no distinct recollection of his dream, but only
a confused feeling of oppression and fatigue, and used to tell his companions that he was sure
they had been playing some trick upon him.

W.A.R.

P.S. This is a sleepy article; and I would warn its reader to endeavour not to fall asleep
over it, and thus endanger his falling over his chair; and lest some familiar friend or chere
amie should, finding his instructions in his hand, take the opportunity of making the experiment,
and may be create a little jealous quarrel or so.

        *       *       *       *       *

SONNET TO THE RIVER ARUN.

(For the Mirror.)

  Pure Stream! whose waters gently glide along,
  In murmuring cadence to the Poet's ear,
  Who, stretch'd at ease your flowery banks among,
  Views with delight your glassy surface clear,
  Roll pleasing on through Otways sainted wood;
  Where "musing Pity" still delights to mourn,
  And kiss the spot where oft her votary stood,
  Or hang fresh cypress o'er his weeping urn;--
  Here, too, retir'd from Folly's scenes afar,
  His powerful shell first studious Collins strung;
  Whilst Fancy, seated in her rainbow car,
  Round him her flowers Parnassian wildly flung.
  Stream of the Bards! oft Hayley linger'd here;
  And Charlotte Smith[1] hath grac'd thy current with a tear.

The Author of "A Tradesman's Lays." No. 85, Leather Lane.

    [1] This charming, accomplished poetess has addressed one of her
        most beautiful "Elegiac Sonnets" to this inspiring River.
        Her tender image of the "infant Otway" is, however, borrowed
        from a stanza in Collins's inimitable "Ode to Pity:"--

          "Wild Arun, too, has heard thy strains
          And echo 'midst my native plains
          Been sooth'd by Pity's lute;
          There first the wren thy myrtles shed
          On gentlest Otway's infant head--
          To him thy cell was shown," &c.

        *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

        *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT BLACK BOOKS, &c.

(For the Mirror.)

The Black Book of the Exchequer is said to have been composed in the year 1175, by Gervase
of Tilbury, nephew of King Henry the Second. It contains a description of the court of England,
as it then stood, its officers, their ranks, privileges, wages, perquisites, powers, and jurisdictions;
and the revenues of the crown, both in money, grain, and cattle. Here we find, that for one
shilling, as much bread might be bought as would serve a hundred men a whole day; and the price
for a fat bullock was only twelve shillings, and a sheep four, &c. At the end of this book
are the Annals of William of Worcester, which contain notes on the affairs of his own times.

The Black Book of the English Monasteries was a detail of the scandalous enormities practised
in religious houses: compiled by order of the visiters, under King Henry the Eighth, to blacken
them, and thus hasten their dissolution.

Books which relate to necromancy are called Black Books.

Black-rent, or Black-mail, was a certain rate of money, corn, cattle, or other consideration,
paid (says Cowell) to men allied with robbers, to be by them protected from the danger of such
as usually rob or steal.

  P.T.W.

        *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT STATE OF PANCRAS.

(For the Mirror.)

Brewer, in his "London and Middlesex," says--"When a visitation of the church of Pancras was
made, in the year 1251, there were only forty houses in the parish." The desolate situation
of the village, in the latter part of the 16th century, is emphatically described by Norden,
in his "Speculum Britanniæ." After noticing the solitary condition of the church, he says--"Yet
about the structure have bin manie buildings, now decaied, leaving poore Pancrast without companie
or comfort." In some manuscript additions to his work, the same writer has the following observations:--"Although
this place be, as it were, forsaken of all, and true men seldom frequent the same, but upon
deveyne occasions, yet it is visayed by thieves, who assemble not there to pray, but to waite
for prayer; and many fall into their handes, clothed, that are glad when they are escaped naked.
Walk not there too late."

Pancras is said to have been a parish before the Conquest, and is mentioned in Domesday Book.
It derived its name from the saint to whom the church is dedicated--a youthful Phrygian nobleman,
who suffered death under the Emperor Dioclesian, for his adherence to the Christian faith.

P.T.W.

        *       *       *       *       *

SALT AMONG THE ANCIENT GREEKS.

(For the Mirror.)

Potter, in his "Antiquities of Greece," says--"Salt was commonly set before strangers, before
they tasted the victuals provided for them; whereby was intimated, that as salt does consist
of aqueous and terrene particles, mixed and united together, or as it is a concrete of several
aqueous parts, so the stranger and the person by whom he was entertained should, from the time
of their tasting salt together, maintain a constant union of love and friendship."

Others tell us, that salt being apt to preserve flesh from corruption, signified, that the
friendship which was then begun should be firm and lasting; and some, to mention no more different
opinions concerning this matter, think, that a regard was had to the purifying quality of salt,
which was commonly used in lustrations, and that it intimated that friendship ought to be free
from all design and artifice, jealousy and suspicion.

It may be, the ground of this custom was only this, that salt was constantly used at all entertainments,
both of the gods and men, whence a particular sanctity was believed to be lodged in it: it
is hence called divine salt by Homer, and holy salt by others; and by placing of salt on the
table, a sort of blessing was thought to be conveyed to them. To have eaten at the same table
was esteemed an inviolable obligation to friendship; and to transgress the salt at the table--that
is, to break the laws of hospitality, and to injure one by whom any person had been entertained--was
accounted one of the blackest crimes: hence that exaggerating interrogation of Demosthenes,
"Where is the salt? where the hospital tables?" for in despite of these, he had been the author
of these troubles. And the crime of Paris in stealing Helena is aggravated by Cassandra, upon
this consideration, that he had contemned the salt, and overturned the hospital table.

P.T.W.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

        *       *       *       *       *

THE GAMESTER'S DAUGHTER.

From the Confessions of an Ambitious Student.

A fit, one bright spring morning, came over me--a fit of poetry. From that time the disorder
increased, for I indulged it; and though such of my performances as have been seen by friendly
eyes have been looked upon as mediocre enough, I still believe, that if ever I could win a
lasting reputation, it would be through that channel. Love usually accompanies poetry, and,
in my case, there was no exception to the rule.

"There was a slender, but pleasant brook, about two miles from our house, to which one or two
of us were accustomed, in the summer days, to repair to bathe and saunter away our leisure
hours. To this favourite spot I one day went alone, and crossing a field which led to the brook,
I encountered two ladies, with one of whom, having met her at some house in the neighbourhood,
I had a slight acquaintance. We stopped to speak to each other, and I saw the face of her companion.
Alas! were I to live ten thousand lives, there would never be a moment in which I could be
alone--nor sleeping, and that face not with me!

"My acquaintance introduced us to each other. I walked home with them to the house of Miss
D----(so was the strange, who was also the younger lady named.) The next day I called upon
her; the acquaintance thus commenced did not droop; and, notwithstanding our youth--for Lucy
D---- was only seventeen, and I nearly a year younger--we soon loved, and with a love, which,
full of poesy and dreaming, as from our age it necessarily must have been, was not less durable,
nor less heart-felt, than if it had arisen from the deeper and more earthly sources in which
later life only hoards its affections.

