"My first introduction to the entertaining sport of spy tracking," he mumbled, "was at Loos,
where I was sent with several hundred other chaps to help push the Huns out of the Hohenzollern
Redoubt. At the present moment, as you know (or ought to by this time), I am a military genius
'ighly thought of at the War Office, a strategist Kitchener has his eye on, and a model soldier
quoted every day by my colonel as a shining light to the regiment. But of course you must remember
that a few months ago I was practically a yob at the game, and now of the fame (and the extreme
shyness that seems to come with it) of my later avatar.

"We took over some temporary billets at a shady little spot not far behind the British trenches
which was then known as 'Quality Street,'" he continued, "and, as I not unreasonably supposed
that the smartest and most intelligent bloke in the regiment would be sent to 'elp the colonel,
I requested the Dog's Leg (Anglice--lance-corporal) to point out his abode to me.

"'Ask the Quarter Bloke over along in the end cottage, old sport,' he said with a grin, 'he'll
be most 'appy, I've no doubt to personally conduct to the old pot-an-pan, and while you're
there just ask him to let you have that jug of defaulters' extra milk for me.' It was a 'wheeze'
among the boys to send a poor innocent bloke off for this milk. The point of the 'wheeze' is
in the fact that as defaulters are chaps doing jankers (Anglice--punishment) they are hardly
likely to get any extra milk dished out to them. I did not see the joke at first; but on application
to that autocratic beggar--Quartermaster King was his tally--he fully explained things to me
in that witheringly sarcastic manner peculiar to sergeant-majors and quarter-blokes.

"'Defaulter's milk?' echoed he. 'Why, you lop-eared leper, you've got corpuscular fool wrote
as plain as a motor lorry number all over your ugly face. If I wasn't sure that you was not
more of a born idiot than a ruddy knave, etc., etc., etc., I would have you slick in mush before
your feet could touch the ground!'

"Much crest-fallen, and terribly mortified, I returned to the cottage which had been selected
to shelter me noble self, only to be met there with a volley of derisive laughter, repeated
demands for the jug of Defaulter's milk, and questions about the quarter bloke's health.

"'A cat may look at a King,' said the Dog's Leg, and fell backwards out of the open window
at his own joke, breaking 'is collar bone. One should never forget, at every time, as the Scriptures
say, that pride allus goes before a fall, and that all the King's 'orses and all the King's
men can't not even pick 'im up again!"

My murmured compliments on his amazing aptness in the knowledge of Holy Writ were checked by
a sudden discovery that my best silver cigarette case had vanished from the table.

"Which of you civilians has stole the gentleman's silver case?"

This question, uttered not in the friendliest possible terms, was addressed to a young gentleman
with a very pimply face, and kaleidoscopic coloured socks, of the genus Slacker, who had suddenly
found the painting of Sergeant Broughton an object of absorbing interest.

This inquiry meeting with no response from the Slimy Slacker, (to use McNab's expressive name
for him), he gave utterance to a sigh of resignation.

"I believe, sir," suggested an old gentleman who was warming his toes at the fire, "that you
deposited the gentleman's cigarette case--er--inadvertently in your own pocket!"

"Why, strike me crimson!" cried McNab, diving his beef-steakish hands into his tunic pockets.
"Why, so I did! I'm the biggest giddy fool at that kind of wheeze that ever lived. It's a knock-out,
ain't it? Never mind--'honi soit qui mal y eighteen pence,' as the French poet bloke said!

"It so happened that on the very next day our old man's servant went sick, and in spite of
my extreme youth and innocence, I was selected from the crowd to fill the vacant billet. And
then it was that the Colonel realised that fate had dropped a heaven-sent blessing on his knees
in the shape of a--well, in the shape of an ingenious bloke like me. He lifted up his voice
in thanksgiving for that the British Army held warriors so wise, and then looked up his whiskey
and cigars.

"At one end of Quality Street there stood a Y.M.C.A. hut. On the next day when I pushed the
door of this Bun-Wallah's paradise open, the first person I saw was old Tommy--Tommy wot had
fought up and down the Godforsaken veldt with me for three years on end, Tommy who had always
the knack of droppin' out of the blue from nowhere.

"'Well, 'ere's a go!' he cried dropping half a cup of boiling coffee down another chap's neck,
as 'is smile broadened, 'it's a 'ell of a time since I struck you.'

"I saw the dawn of recognition on his ugly mug; and I could have guessed to a word the joyful
expressions of welcome that were springing to his lips."

McNab paused.

"Quite so," I prompted, seeing the change that took place in my friend's face.

"I am afraid I should have guessed dead wrong," continued McNab with his eyes downcast. "However,
what he did spit out was: 'strike me up a gum-tree if it ain't the bloke what borrowed 'alf
a crown off me when I was quartered at the "Shot" in '98.'

"I was pretty well worked up at this remark; but I said to him with quiet dignity: 'I believe,
Tommy, that I sent it back by post.'

"'You sent me back a threepenny bit,' he says, with a very naughty word, 'and told me it was
my 'alf crown worn down.'

"'Come, come, old chum!' I laughed, 'let us forget all about that, such a thing is really only
"very small beer" indeed.'

"'Humph!' grunted Tommy. 'It was a blighted small 'alf crown, too.'

"'Sit down,' he continued, clutching me by the wrist and dragging me into a vacant chair. It
was not in champagne, of course, that we drank each other's health. But you can always trust
old Tommy to have a little pig's ear hidden somewhere. 'What's the matter with a bottle of
Bass?' says he to me. ''Tis against ole Kitchener's wishes,' says I. 'Of course it is,' says
Tommy; 'and wot is more, it's the ruin of dear ole England--God bless it!' 'Rot yar innards--let's
go and 'ave some,' I says bein' always one to reason out matters to a logical conclusion.

"There is a large slag heap in the neighbourhood of Quality Street where the French and Germans
met early in the war. They wanted each other's company exclusive on this here heap. Well, they
met, and fell to arguin' whether the French should 'ave it as a mounting for a few machine-guns
or the Germans should keep it for sniping purposes. Hence the air was soon clouded with shells,
shrapnel, and all other deadly diseases. Seeing the children had got over their shyness in
this little fright and had really played quite a good game, this particular slag heap was bearing
abundant fruit in the way of trophies. Furthermore, Tommy suggested that it would be indeed
nice if we could make our way there one evening and collect a few German helmets, bayonets,
and other curiosities for the old people at home.

"As a result of our confabulation we found ourselves about ten that night crawling up a hedge
towards the slag heap in question. When we did get there we went and lost our blighted selves.
How long we were crawling and twisting about that Gawd-forsaken heap or which way our lines
lay I'd no means of knowing. But poor old Tommy rolled down a bank with an armful of German
helmets and other trophies, making a noise like a fire engine galloping up the Mile End Road.
Then suddenly one of those German flares fell on the ground about a hundred yards away, and
all things, including Tommy and I, shone out in their naked splendour. Then you can take it
from me we did see where we were.

"I thought Tommy was having a bad attack of epileptic fits for a moment, till it transpired
that he had flumped down on a dead Boche in endeavouring to escape the searching glare of the
flare. After the thing had burnt its giddy self out Tommy crawled crab-fashion over into the
providential cutting in which I had taken shelter. He was wiping his forehead with the back
of his hand, and he looked very solemn and rather frightened. 'Did you spot that chap crouching
in that V-shaped cutting down there?' he said. 'I thought he was one of our old crowd at first,
but what with that cursed light and the excitement I could not be certain.'

"'I saw nothing.'

"'Just before the flare went up I noticed a flash lamp; one of those things used to give signals
with. I got an awful turn then.'

"'Rot,' I said: 'I don't believe a word of it.'

"'Do you mind coming over this way then?' said Tommy.

"In the pitch-black darkness, guided by Tommy, I stumbled up a path which I'll swear was all
of a one in three gradient. We came out upon a little ledge overlooking what we now knew to
be the German lines. Tommy motioned me to keep my eye on the V-shaped cutting in the slag below us.

"'I think the beggar is down in the extreme angle of the V,' he whispered as he crawled beside me.

"Then I overbalanced, fell over the ridge, and dropped clean on to something soft and yielding
below. Red specks dotted the blackness before my eyes for a few moments as I bounced on the
hard stones. I jumped up with a jerk and spun round to find, blocking my path, a menacing figure
regarding me over the barrel of a Browning pistol. In the other hand he held an electric torch.

"'Don't move,' he said in good English.

"His tone was quiet and crisp, an' his face showed me that 'e was out for blood.

"'I have it in my mind almost to be sorry for you, British Tommy,' he said calmly, 'You know
too much. I am going to decide on the best way to dis----'

"He got as far as 'dis'--when something leaped out of the shadows and he was hurled back with
a sudden rush. It was Tommy, and he swung his heavy Boche rifle and stove the man down with
terrific force. There was a dreadful half-choked, whimper and then silence.

"Tommy stood regarding the still form with a bleached face. He then bent over him, but without
touching, looked up at me.

"'Saved a firing party the trouble,' he said. 'He's dead all right.'

"He straightened himself up.

"'What the devil shall we do with it, McNab?'

"''Tis a spy he was,' I answered, 'and it's ten to one that he has a code or some kind of papers
tucked away on him. Just run through his pockets before we leave him.'

"'No, no,' Tommy said, 'I can't touch him he'll haunt me, sure.'

"The man was quite dead when I rolled him over. I took from his pockets a leather bound code
book, English, French and German bank notes, and a gold stop watch.

"'No good stayin' here,' said Tommy, 'I vote we crawl back and talk it over. This is a crummy
old place.'

"When we got back to billets and examined our loot, it was a sure enough German spy's code
book, and it contained a rough sketch of all our trenches and what not, quite sufficient to
use in conjunction with the squared map he carried. The book was printed in German.

"'You know,' said Tommy, 'we must report this to the Colonel as soon as we can.'

"'An' be collared for being out at night without a pass first thing? Not much,' said I.

"'We must hide this loot. They may search us when they find him out there,' said Tommy, looking
to the future.

"'Hide away, then,' I said, but my mind was elsewhere, for all of a sudden, I had been hit
in the eye with a brilliant inspiration.

"The following morning, when I took our ole man his early tea, I found 'im sitting up in bed
sucking a fat cigar and bewilderin' himself with the brigade orders.

"'I beg your pardon, sir!' I says, 'but may I have a word with you?'

"'You know, McNab,' he says, screwing his eye-glass into his eye with a smile--'you know that
I am at any hour of the day or night glad to have a talk to a man of understanding like yourself.'

"'That's good of you, Colonel,' I says, 'to meet me with such kindness. But I think, as you
say, that I have just a little more than the usual share of intellec' under my hat, but what
I have come to lay before your notice is this: I have discovered why the Boche guns always
register on our artillery positions the moment they are taken up, and the source of the leakage
of information.'

"'Oh, you have, have you?' says he.

"''Tis a spy, sir,' says I, 'and it's signalling to the Huns he was when I caught him.'

"'Another blessed spy legend,' he yawned, 'I really thought that you, McNab, would be the last
man to become afflicted with the spy craze. I have arrested half a dozen so-called spies this
week already only to find they were harmless rustics--'

"'I beg your pardon, Colonel,' I returns, with that chilling dignity which has at times even
made generals falter, 'but there is no legend about Private McNab's spy.'

"'Then trot out your spy,' he says, 'and I'll come and look 'im over.'

"'I not only caught him red-handed at his nefarious trafficking (them was the very words I
used) ... I not only caught the blighter, but I put his light out.'

"'What?' he shouts, clutching my arm, 'you killed the poor brute.'

"'We did--me and Tommy, and we found this here code in his fob,' said I.

"With that I threw the little code book on the bed, and the old man, after looking through
it carefully (he could read German, our old man), got out of bed and started dressing in a
businesslike way.

"'Shut that door, McNab,' says he, 'and let me have the benefit of your invaluable advice.'

"All of a sudden I was struck with a brilliant inspiration, and I let the old Colonel have
it for what it was worth.

"As it happened the old man thought a mighty lot of it--such a lot, in fact, that by one o'clock
that day he started to imagine the inspiration had come from his own fertile brain. He liked
to think that it was his, and, Lord bless 'im, I don't grudge him the glory.

"After laying our heads together, the Colonel went back to the artillery lines and spent three
hours talking to the Battery Major, and I looted a dozen three-pounder rockets of var-i-ous
colours out of the stores. In the afternoon the Colonel called all his officers together, and
kept the blighted motorcycle dispatch riders busy buzzing up and down the line with messages,
till late in the evening.

"'I have called you gentlemen together,' he says to his officer, 'in order to ask you to corporate
with me. I shall fire some rockets from the slag heap to-night about ten o'clock. On the first
of these signals the Germans will open a very heavy cannonade on our trenches. I'll trouble
you to have your men all in the dug-outs, and under cover at a quarter to ten!'

"That night, soon after the Colonel, Tommy and I started off for the slag heap in the dark,
taking with us a bundle of rockets. My idea was at last going to be tested--what do you think
it was, Sir?"

I discreetly pretended my utter inability to guess.

"Why, nothing more or less than to hoist these German blokes with their own petard, so to speak.
We were going to fool them by giving them signals in their own code. Well, after stumbling
and groping about for half an hour," McNab continued, "we arrived at the spot near where we
had overlooked the spy.

"'I think this is the ledge from which I fell,' Tommy whispered as we crawled on. The next
instant the Colonel disappeared, and the little procession came to an abrupt standstill. A
crashing noise was heard as the old man with a quarter of a ton of slag went tobogganing down
the stone-shod slope.

"'This is the spot,' Tommy said tersely. And up to us came hoarse whispered curses as our ole
man tongue-lashed us for a full minute in gross and detail.

"'Lie quite still, Colonel,' I whispered, 'the Hun swine-dogs may send up a flare if they hear us.'

"But no flare flared, and no sniper sniped.

"'This game gives me the blooming creeps,' old Tommy muttered shudderingly, thinking of Huns
and guns three miles deep all round. After that the Colonel struggled clear of the 'alf ton
of slag atop o' him. Tommy and I wandered a little more until we got down to the old man. Here
we halted. 'Here's the place where we left the dead spy,' said Tommy, his eyes peering into
the darkness of the V-shaped cutting. 'I can still see Fritz lying in the corner. We had better
get right over this side. Come on!'

"'I see,' said the Colonel. 'This is the key of the position. It overlooks the German trenches
and when the spy was using his flash lamp he could not be observed by the men in our lines.'

"'Good thing we short-circuited his little game,' reflected Tommy hugging an arm full of rockets.

"'Ah!' says he, fingering the electric torch. 'How this game of war makes one think. My 'orizon
has indeed broadened. Just to think that a few flashes from this little chap will mean more
than all those glittering stars above to the German fellows in the trenches over there. It's
simply ridiculous to waste our little concert on a few Huns in the trenches to-night. We must
socialise the whole blooming show. We must get the head up of all the Huns for miles around.
Let us consult the code book,' he said, and then opening it he read out some of the rocket
codes. They all seemed simple enough. But he had some difficulty in finding the one he wanted,
having first of all of course to translate them into English; but presently he seized upon
the one he wanted, he repeated it over with delight:

"'Two green rockets in rapid succession mean: "Enemy making active preparations for offensive
movement" and when followed after a suitable interval by a single red rocket, mean: "Enemy
will attack without delay."'

"'Touch off two green rockets, McNab, if you please,' said the Colonel with a tremor in his voice.

"I touched off two three-pounders which rose several thousand yards, and burst into bunches
of gorgeous stars. A faint clattering noise came to us from the Hun trenches, and we all hugged
the earth fairly closely as a rapid fusillade broke out from all quarters. Rifles cracked all
around us to the extent of thousands, and with that a most impressive humming noise, which
I had never had the pleasure of hearing before, because being a soldier I had always formed
a part of it--the noise of whole armies turning out to meet an attack.

"'Colonel,' I says, 'it may have escaped you that the angry and 'ighly intelligent Boche on
our front will soon be sending up their rockets to confuse our own men. Might I recommend a
red rocket before they open their part of the ball, and bend the lights! That will spell to
'em: Enemy will attack without delay, and it will also expedite their artillery just a leetle.'

"The Colonel laid his hand on my shoulder.

"'McNab,' says he, 'there's worse blokes than you sitting on thrones. They shall 'ave that
red rocket. None the less,' he remarked, 'the situation is undeniably getting a bit feverish.
Trot out Red Rufus!'

"I rightly took the command to read:

"'Send up a red rocket.' Rufus soared up into the sky and burst into a red glare that simply
shouted: 'Here they come after you' to the Huns.

"'Oh-h-h-h-h!' exclaimed old Tommy as the twirly-whirly red stars fell through the sky.

"'Silence!' said the old man. 'This is the sanguinary British Expeditionary Force, not a (decorated)
Brock's Benefit at the Crystal Palace. What in Hong-Kong are you jumping about like a richly
decorated organ-grinder's monkey for?'

"The Huns grasped the meaning of their dead spy's signal as soon as it showed in the heavens,
so to speak. We lay belly-flat and held our breaths for a moment or so in silence, but we were
about the only silent things for a hundred miles. Flares went up by the thousand and searchlights
cut up the sky in every direction. All kinds of mysterious guns got into action and all the
batteries for a hundred miles must have let drive as well. From then on, for at least two hours,
the shells poured excruciating-wise into our deserted trenches without cessation,--shrapnel,
high explosive, six inch, twelve inch--thousands of pounds the Huns wasted that night.

"I wish you could have seen Tommy bowing to right and left of the German trenches acknowledging
the applause which the Huns would have given him if they'd known the facts. On the other hand,
as the Colonel observed, they might 'ave killed him.

"'They'll have to pull up their socks at Krupp's to replace the shells they have blazed away
in this little pantomime,' said Tommy pressing his hands to his sides. 'Star programme--heap
big star programme! Phew! Oh, I wish I could stop laughing, I ain't 'ad such a laugh for years!'

"'And in this little code book here,' said the old man, a hand on each of our shoulders, 'there
are hundreds of little love messages we can be getting ready to surprise 'em with. Presently
we'll begin to send 'em instructions to concentrate their fire on empty houses--tell 'em they
are chock-full of British troops. Then they'll fairly let loose the bow-yows of war. Damme,
how their gunners will gun! Oblige me by thinking of four hundred guns, pumping val-u-able
shells into an empty house.'

"The exquisite humour of it brought us down screaming with laughter in a tangle on the slag-heap.
A searchlight broke out from the back of the Hun trenches and began searching our lines.

"'They're looking for our attacking party, or the Angels of Mons,' panted the old man, his
knees in a shell hole and his face in the grass. 'Well, let's get our things packed and hurry
back. I think they have sent back for a fresh supply of shells. The sooner we get out of it
the better. Sufficient unto the day--or night, perhaps one should say.'

"Well, it's dry work talking," said McNab, wistfully surveying the interior of his empty mug.

I took measures--pint measures--to allay his thirst.

"Let me see now," he said; "let me see."

"And did you do any signalling with the flash lamp the next night?" I timidly hinted, "I believe
you mentioned that it was your intention."

"Yes, we did have some fun, I can tell you, and 'twas better still next night. Once more we
returned, to the slag-heap, then," McNab swept on, "we started to flash a few messages over
to the German lines. They soon picked up our signals and after a brief interrogation they replied.
Then they started to ask questions. 'At which part of the British line would it be wise to
launch an attack?' they flashed.

"And our old man flashed back a trench that was fairly bristly with machine guns. Then they
asked other questions, but we did not reply. We laid low and said nothing, for you can take
it from me, mister, that a real spy is a man of few words, and playing with a flashlight in
enemy lines is not exactly a healthy game.

"Had we have signalled too freely the Huns would have soon become suspicious, for, mark you,
the flares that we had popped off at 'em the night before had left 'em with an uncomfortable
feeling that their spy was taking quite unreasonable risks. It is of course most unusual for
a spy to make use of rocket signals. Do I make myself comprehensible?"

"Perfectly. Did the Huns attack?" I asked.

McNab nodded. "They attacked us three days afterwards at five o'clock in the morning. It was
like a nightmare. The Germans came on, evidently thinking they were on a soft job, and you
can realize what a wonderful target they made for the gunners who had been waiting for 'em.
Such a target that gunners dream about but never see. We had some eighteen-and-a-'arf-pounders
not five hundred yards away, and they let go right into the thick of 'em. And each case shot
with its four hundred bullets swept and tore their ranks. With a mighty gasp and something
like a groan the Huns staggered, recovered, and with wild yells came charging on to a hundred
machine guns. And all the time the shells came over at them and tore wide swathes in their
closely-packed ranks. Then our boys got into 'em and swept the remaining Huns into eternity!"

"Unless this story had come from such a highly-reliable fountain-head, McNab," I murmured,
after a moment or so, "I would never have believed that the whole thing was not a fabrication."

McNab removed his pot of beer on one side, and leaned across the table. I moved my chair back
quickly, just missing another vigorous stab from his huge index-finger.

"The history of this war," he observed impressively, "will be interwoven with extraordinary
things like this 'ere tale I have been telling you. And you may lay to it, mister, that the
most extraordinary things of all will never see the light of day in the printed page."

"I can quite understand that," I said pointedly; "for, although a student of military history
of this war myself, I cannot recall a single reference to any of the remarkable events which
occurred in the trenches during the eight months you were with your regiment over there!"

McNab regarded me for a full minute with rapidly-rising choler. Then he shifted his stare from
me to an old gentleman who was warming his toes at the fire.

"The yarn I have told you is as true as the drill book, though you need not believe it if you
have conscientious objections. I have been recounting real slices of history. Leastways, when
I say history I may be wrong, because they will never appear in history. But they 'appened,
Mister--'appened as surely as I am sitting here with an empty pot in front o' me. An'--an'----"
McNab stammered in his excitement--"if any bloke says they didn't, be jabers, I'll--I'll drink
his beer!"

But neither the old gentleman nor any member of the company wished to disagree with him, and
he rose up from the chair with a mug to order his final half-pint. He returned (a trifle unsteadily,
perhaps) with his beer and a particularly vile cigar in his mouth. Whether it was the effect
of the heat or the--er--beer I cannot say, but he blundered over my legs, causing me a sharp
twinge of pain.

"What an awkward beggar you are that you can't see to walk straight," I said.

McNab looked down at my legs after giving them another stirring up with his foot. "Why, Go'
bless my soul," he said, "it's quite true, I am an awkward devil. I certainly should have seen
those feet. However did you get 'em into the bar?"

V

THROUGH THE FURNACE

    Give us our rest, O Father, in thine own appointed time and of thy
    gracious olden fashion. Lay thy annulling seal upon the o'erlabored
    heart: drop thy healing nepenthe into the weary brain. Teach us not
    to fear that which brings us nearer to Thee. Suffer us to go to
    sleep with no more consciousness than the flowers that take no care
    for their awakening. Give us this last and best of all thy
    gifts--Parva domus, magna quies!

Hilaire O'Hagan sat in the September sunshine on the grass that skirted the roadside. For some
time he had been examining with a stare of melancholy interest the worn toes of his boots.
On his head was a dingy straw hat; to his form and limbs there hung a faded and creased coat
and a pair of shiny black trousers;--he held in his hand five shillings which had been thrust
into his hand when the prison gates had opened to him that morning. He had taken the money
and swaggered out with a parting gibe at the constable who closed the doors behind him.

O'Hagan was an incorrigible rascal. Some years before, when he stood in the Assize Court, a
venerable judge had told him so. "O'Hagan," said the judge grimly, "you are what I should term
an incorrigible rogue, and I shall send you to prison for two years with hard labour. You have
run across my path many times before. When you gain your liberty it will be very much to your
advantage if you keep out of my way for good and all."

O'Hagan had received the sentence with the same impertinent smirk on his face as he had received
many similar sentences.

Now he was a free man. He was powerful, full of health, and--lazy. He reflected aloud, with
evident enjoyment (and in the speech of a lettered gentleman), "This is indeed one of those
days when it is good to be alive!"

"O'Hagan!" came a sudden voice, harsh and authoritative, from behind him: He rose to his feet
and faced about. In the roadway appeared the constable to whom he had addressed some not over
polite remarks on his way out of prison.

"Well?" said O'Hagan.

The constable snorted. "Didn't you hear me tell you to move on? We don't want any habitual
criminals hanging about here."

O'Hagan dived his hands deep into the pockets of his shiny trousers and slouched along towards
the next village. About a mile ahead was an inn he knew of where he might enjoy a great refreshment,
and drink the waters of Lethe. He jingled the silver in his pocket and reflected that for one
night at least he could eat strongly, and drink largely, and sleep deeply.

       *       *       *       *       *

Outside a house screened by a mysterious ten foot wall full of the plain dignity of unpretending
age, a long grey motor car was standing. O'Hagan turned and surveyed it, and his quick eye
rested upon a leather hand case on a rug beneath the seat. It did not take him a moment to
snatch it and hide it swiftly beneath his coat. For a second or so he stood back against the
wall. At that moment a girl came out of the house, in company with an elderly gentleman, and
walked towards the car. O'Hagan looked at the girl swiftly. At the same time she glanced at
him, and their eyes met. Things looked unhealthy for O'Hagan. But fate was altogether with
him, and the motor moved off and left him standing there with the case under his coat. No glorious
figure, this man, but one of those whom specialists now place amongst the doomed as cursed
with the criminal instinct, with the vices that require lavish means to feed them--a man who
only feels a thrill in life when he is preying on his fellows, or eluding the hand of justice.

       *       *       *       *       *

O'Hagan walked down the road a little way with his hand resting lovingly on the leather case.
He turned a corner, cut through the hedge, and took a track across a field. In the shelter
of a clump of bushes he sat leisurely on the grass and went over the contents. Among the various
odds and ends was a leather purse. He opened it with trembling fingers. There was a sovereign,
five one pound notes folded up, eight shillings in silver, and a small silver cross hanging
on a black silk riband. He dropped the silver with a sigh of satisfaction into his trousers
pocket, and the notes he stored in the lining of his hat. He took up the little cross and was
about to thrust it into the thick grass, when he paused for a moment, and was aware of an oppressive
feeling.

    On a sudden, in the midst of men and day,
      And while he sat and looked around,
    He seemed to be in a bygone age,
      And feel himself the shadow of a dream.

O'Hagan felt that his body was decreasing, sinking under the green turf, falling down, down,
down, and yet "He" was still above, gazing, wondering, open-eyed, open-mouthed, as it were.
Gradually, but none the less surely, he was being crowded round by many moving "?'s" which
never seemed to grow distinct. He seemed to know at once he was back in the days long past.
He shut his eyes against a burning that felt like tears. When he opened them again he was looking
at his own name, fairly carved in on the silver cross in quaint old English letters:

    Hilaire O'Hagan

The clump of bushes before him was now obscured by a thin white cloud. As he watched he was
aware of a figure that stood out distinctly before him. He was a man of his own height, thick-set,
serious-looking, in a monk's mantle and hood. O'Hagan gave a hurried glance, and as hurriedly
turned his head away again. The face of the man exactly resembled his own. But it was an honest
face, without the look of dissipation, and the secret furtive air, which he knew marred his
own features. He also thought he could see a faint nimbus round his head--but this may have
been illusion. O'Hagan moved away as if he had no wish to see him; but the stranger was not
to be put off by any such trick. He touched O'Hagan's arm, and brought him to a standstill.

"Brother!" he said in a gentle voice.

O'Hagan pulled himself up sharply. For a moment it seemed as if he would have refused to stay,
but the next he realized that it would be of no use.

"What do you want with me?" he began. "I know I'm a thief and a drunkard. Do you want to hand
me a Sunday School tract? If so get it over."

The stranger's hand tightened on his arm, and he began to speak in a calm but strangely thrilling
voice. "It is written there: 'men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when
he is hungry.'"

"Well?" said O'Hagan, trying to hold a countenance of little concern.

"Well?" said the stranger, "for why did you steal?"

O'Hagan coughed and held down his head.

"A man without scruple and without heart," the stranger remarked to himself.

O'Hagan looked up with a start. "Look here," he began. "You've no right to----"

Then of a sudden the mist began to rise from the clump of bushes and the stranger vanished.
O'Hagan was back in the flesh. He stood there dazed for the moment, with the little cross clutched
in his hand. He sat down again and tried to force his spirit back to the other scene, but in
vain. He felt that he had been thrilled through and through. The oppression, however, unlike
the stern-faced monk, did not vanish, it deepened. A throbbing headache came on, which refused
to be shaken off, and eventually sent O'Hagan to the "Bell Inn" to drink still deeper of the
waters of oblivion.

The day was already falling when he walked, jingling his silver, into the sanded bar of the
"Bell Inn," and an hour or so later, when it began to fill with drovers and country folk, O'Hagan
had looked much on the good brown ale. He was in fact becoming very noisy. Seated in a corner,
he sang "Nell and Roger at the Wake" in a hoarse voice. The country folk grinned and looked
at him curiously.

"Shut your gab, old sport," said a rough-looking drover at last, "that song is not fit for
decent folk to hear."

O'Hagan swore like any trooper, and reached his hand out to a large spirit bottle at his elbow,
and for a moment the drover thought he would get it thrown at his head. However, O'Hagan rose
to his feet, made a bow to the company, and made an apology to the drover. He stood there,
a blackguard on the face of him, but a gentleman in spite of that undefinable and vaguely repulsive
smirk which played about his straight and refined mouth. He slunk away into the night.

