The Good Comrade

                                  By

                           UNA L. SILBERRAD

                            Illustrated by
                          Anna Whelan Betts

                               New York
                      Doubleday, Page & Company
                                 1907

             COPYRIGHT, 1907, BY DOUBLEDAY PAGE & COMPANY
                      PUBLISHED, SEPTEMBER, 1907

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

    I. THE POLKINGTONS

   II. THE DEBT

  III. NARCISSUS TRIANDRUS AZUREUM

   IV. THE OWNER OF THE BLUE DAFFODIL

    V. THE EXCURSION

   VI. DEBTOR AND CREDITOR

  VII. HOW JULIA DID NOT GET THE BLUE DAFFODIL

 VIII. POOFERCHJES AND JEALOUSY

   IX. THE HOLIDAY

    X. TO-MORROW

   XI. A REPRIEVE

  XII. THE YOUNG COOK

 XIII. THE HEIRESS

  XIV. THE END OF THE CAMPAIGN

   XV. THE GOOD COMRADE

  XVI. THE SIMPLE LIFE

 XVII. NARCISSUS TRIANDRUS STRIATUM, THE GOOD COMRADE

XVIII. BEHIND THE CHOPPING-BLOCK

  XIX. CAPTAIN POLKINGTON

   XX. THE BENEFACTOR

  XXI. THE GOING OF THE GOOD COMRADE

 XXII. THE LINE OF LEAST RESISTANCE

XXIII. PAYMENT AND RECEIPT

ILLUSTRATIONS

"'Tell me,' she said, 'did you ever really do anything foolish in your life?'"            
Frontispiece

"Julia"

"A wonderful woman"

"'Now you must call your flower a name,' he said"

THE GOOD COMRADE

CHAPTER I

THE POLKINGTONS

The Polkingtons were of those people who do not dine. They lunched, though few besides Johnny
Gillat, who did not count, had been invited to share that meal with them. They took tea, the
daintiest, pleasantest, most charming of teas, as the élite of Marbridge knew; everybody--or,
rather, a selection of everybody, had had tea with them one time or another. After that there
was no record; the élite, who would as soon have thought of going without their heads as without
their dinner, concluded they dined, because they were "one of us." But some humbler folk were
of opinion that they only dined once a week, and that after morning service on Sundays; but
even this idea was dispelled when the eldest Miss Polkington was heard to excuse her non-appearance
at an organ recital because "lunch was always so late on Sunday."

Let it not be imagined from this that the Polkingtons were common people--they were not; they
were extremely well connected; indeed, their connections were one of the two striking features
about them, the other was their handicap, Captain Polkington, late of the ----th Bengal Lancers.
He was well connected, though not quite so much so as his wife; still--well, but he was not
very presentable. If only he had been dead he would have been a valuable asset, but living,
he was decidedly rather a drawback; there are some relatives like this. Mrs. Polkington bore
up under it valiantly; in fact, they all did so well that in time they, or at least she and
two of her three daughters, came almost to believe some of the legends they told of the Captain.

The Polkingtons lived at No. 27 East Street, which, as all who know Marbridge are aware, is
a very good street in which to live. The house was rather small, but the drawing-room was good,
with two beautiful Queen Anne windows, and a white door with six panels. The rest of the house
did not matter. On the whole the drawing-room did not so very much matter, because visitors
seldom went into it when the Miss Polkingtons were not there; and when they were, no one but
a jealous woman would have noticed that the furniture was rather slight, and there were no
flowers except those in obvious places.

There was only one Miss Polkington in the drawing-room that wintry afternoon--Julia, the middle
one of the three, the only one who could not fill even a larger room to the complete obliteration
of furniture and fitments. Julia was not pretty, therefore she was seldom to be found in the
drawing-room alone; she knew better than to attempt to occupy that stage by herself. But it
was now almost seven o'clock, too late for any one to come; also, since there was no light
but the fire, deficiencies were not noticeable. She felt secure of interruption, and stood
with one foot on the fender, looking earnestly into the fire.

That day had been an important one to the Polkingtons; Violet, the eldest of the sisters, had
that afternoon accepted an offer of marriage from the Reverend Richard Frazer. The young man
had not left the house an hour, and Mrs. Polkington was not yet returned from some afternoon
engagement more than half, but already the matter had been in part discussed by the family.
Julia, standing by the drawing-room fire, was in a position to review at least some points
of the case dispassionately. Violet was two and twenty, tall, and of a fine presence, like
her mother, but handsomer than the elder woman could ever have been. She had undoubted abilities,
principally of a social order, but not a penny apiece to her dower. She had this afternoon
accepted Richard Frazer, though he was only a curate--an aristocratic one certainly, with a
small private income, and an uncle lately made bishop of one of the minor sees. Violet was
fond of him; she was too nice a girl to accept a man she was not fond of, though too well brought
up to become fond of one who was impossible. The engagement, though it probably did not fulfil
all Mrs. Polkington's ambitions, was in Julia's opinion a good thing for several reasons.

There was a swish and rustle of silk by the door--Mrs. Polkington did not wear silk skirts,
only a silk flounce somewhere, but she got more creak and rustle out of it than the average
woman does out of two skirts. An imposing woman she was, with an eye that had once been described
as "eagle," though, for that, it was a little inquiring and eager now, by reason of the look-out
she had been obliged to keep for a good part of her life. She entered the room now, followed
by her eldest and youngest daughters, Violet and Chèrie.

"At twelve to-morrow?" she was saying as she came in. "Is that when he is coming to see your
father?"

Violet said it was; then added, in a tone of some dissatisfaction, "I suppose he must see father
about it? We couldn't arrange something?"

"Certainly not," Mrs. Polkington replied with decision; "it is not for me to give or refuse
consent to your marriage. Of course, Mr. Frazer knows your father does not have good health,
or trouble himself to mix much in society here--it is not likely that an old military man should,
but in a case like this he would expect to be called upon; it would have shown a great lack
of breeding on Mr. Frazer's part had he suggested anything different."

Violet agreed, though she did not seem exactly convinced, and Julia created a diversion by saying--

"Twelve is rather an awkward time. A quarter of an hour with father, five minutes--no, ten--with
you, half an hour with Violet, altogether brings it very near lunch time."

"Mr. Frazer will, of course, lunch with us to-morrow," Mrs. Polkington said, as if stray guests
to lunch were the most usual and convenient thing in the world. The Polkingtons kept up a good
many of their farces in private life; most of them found it easier, as well as pleasanter,
to do so. "The cold beef," Mrs. Polkington said, mentally reviewing her larder, "can be hashed;
that and a small boned loin of mutton will do, he would naturally expect to be treated as one
of the family; fortunately the apple tart has not been cut--with a little cream--"

"I thought we were to have the tart to-night," Julia interrupted, thinking of Johnny Gillat,
who was coming to spend the evening with her father.

Mrs. Polkington thought of him too, but she did not change her mind on this account. "We can't,
then," she said, and turned to the discussion of other matters. She had carried these as far
as the probable date of marriage, and the preferment the young man might easily expect, when
the little servant came up to announce Mr. Gillat.

Mrs. Polkington did not express impatience. "Is he in the dining-room?" she said. "I hope you
lighted the heater, Mary."

Mary said she had, and Mrs. Polkington returned to her interesting subject, only pausing to
remark, "How tiresome that your father is not back yet!"

For a little none of the three girls moved, then Julia rose.

"Are you going down to Mr. Gillat?" her mother asked. "There really is no necessity; he is
perfectly happy with the paper."

Perhaps he was, though the paper was a half-penny morning one; he did not make extravagant
demands on fate, or anything else; nevertheless, Julia went down.

The Polkingtons' house was furnished on an ascending scale, which found its zenith in the drawing-room,
but deteriorated again very rapidly afterwards. The dining-room, being midway between the kitchen
and the drawing-room, was only a middling-looking apartment. They did not often have a fire
there; a paraffin lamp stove stood in the fire-place, leering with its red eye as if it took
a wicked satisfaction in its own smell. Before the fire-place, re-reading the already-known
newspaper by the light of one gas jet, sat Johnny Gillat. Poor old Johnny, with his round,
pink face, whereon a grizzled little moustache looked as much out of place as on a twelve-year-old
school-boy. There was something of the school-boy in his look and in his deprecating manner,
especially to Mrs. Polkington; he had always been a little deprecating to her even when he
had first known her, a bride, while he himself was the wealthy bachelor friend of her husband.
He was still a bachelor, and still her husband's friend, but the wealth had gone long ago.
He had now only just enough to keep him, fortunately so secured that he could not touch the
principal. It was a mercy he had it, for there was no known work at which he could have earned
sixpence, unless perhaps it was road scraping under a not too exacting District Council. He
was a harmless enough person, but when he took it into his head to leave his lodgings in town
for others, equally cheap and nasty, at Marbridge, Mrs. Polkington felt fate was hard upon
her. It was like having two Captain Polkingtons, of a different sort, but equally unsuitable
for public use, in the place. In self defence she had been obliged to make definite rules for
Mr. Gillat's coming and going about the house, and still more definite rules as to the rooms
in which he might be found. The dining-room was allowed him, and there he was when Julia came.

He looked up as she entered, and smiled; he regarded her as almost as much his friend as her
father; a composite creature, and a necessary connection between the superior and inferior
halves of the household.

"Father not in, I hear," he said.

"No," Julia answered. "What a smell there is!"

Mr. Gillat allowed it. "There's something gone wrong with Bouquet," he said, thoughtfully regarding
the stove.

The "Bouquet Heater" was the name under which it was patented; it did not seem quite honest
to speak of it as a heater, so perhaps "Bouquet" was the better name.

Julia went to it. "I should think there is," she said, and turned it up, and turn it down,
and altered the wicks, until she had improved matters a little.

"I'm afraid your father's having larks," Johnny said, watching her.

"It's rather a pity if he is," Julia answered; "he has got to see some one on business to-morrow."

"Who?"

"Mr. Frazer, a clergyman who wants to marry Violet."

Mr. Gillat sat upright. "Dear, dear!" he exclaimed. "No? Really?" and when Julia had given
him an outline of the circumstances, he added softly, "A wonderful woman! I always had a great
respect for your mother." From which it is clear he thought Mrs. Polkington was to be congratulated.
"And when is it to be?" he asked.

"Violet says a year's time; they could not afford to marry sooner and do it properly, but it
will have to be sooner all the same."

"A year is not a very long time," Mr. Gillat observed; "they go fast, years; one almost loses
count of them, they go so fast."

"I dare say," Julia answered, "but Violet will have to get married without waiting for the
year to pass. We can't afford a long engagement."

Mr. Gillat looked mildly surprised and troubled; he always did when scarcity of money was brought
home to him, but Julia regarded it quite calmly.

"The sooner Violet is married," she said, "the sooner we can reduce some of the expenses; we
are living beyond our income now--not a great deal, perhaps, still a bit; Violet's going would
save enough, I believe; we could catch up then. That is one reason, but the chief is that a
long engagement is expensive; you see, we should have to have meals different, and fires different,
and all manner of extras if Mr. Frazer came in and out constantly. We should have to live altogether
in a more expensive style; we might manage it for three months, or six if we were driven to
it, but for a year--it is out of the question."

"But," Mr. Gillat protested, "if they can't afford it? You said he could not; he is a curate."

"He must get a living, or a chaplaincy, or something; or rather, I expect we must get it for
him. Oh, no, we have no Church influence, and we don't know any bishops; but one can always
rake up influence, and get to know people, if one is not too particular how."

Mr. Gillat looked at her uneasily; every now and then there flitted through his mind a suspicion
that Julia was clever too, as clever perhaps as her mother, and though not, like her, a moral
and social pillar standing in the high first estate from which he and the Captain had fallen.
Julia had never been that, never aspired to it; she was no success at all; content to come
and sit in the dining-room with him and Bouquet; she could not really be clever, or else she
would have achieved something for herself, and scorned to consort with failures. He smiled
benignly as he remembered this, observing, "I dare say something will be done--I hope it may;
your mother's a wonderful woman, a wonderful--"

He broke off to listen; Julia listened too, then she rose to her feet. "That's father," she
said, and went to let him in.

Mr. Gillat followed her to the door. "Ah--h'm," he said, as he saw the Captain coming in slowly,
with a face of despairing melancholy and a drooping step.

"Come down-stairs, father," Julia said. "Come along, Johnny."

They followed her meekly to the basement, where there was a gloomy little room behind the kitchen
reserved for the Captain's special use. A paraffin stove stood in the fire-place also, own
brother to the one in the dining-room; Julia stooped to light it, while her father sank into
a chair.

"Gillat," he said in a voice of hopelessness, "I am a ruined man."

"No?" Mr. Gillat answered sympathetically, but without surprise. "Dear me!" He carefully put
down the hat and stick he had brought with him, the one on the edge of the table, the other
against it, both so badly balanced that they fell to the ground.

"You shouldn't do it, you know," he said, with mild reproof; "you really shouldn't."

"Do it!" the Captain cried. "Do what?"

Julia looked up from the floor where she knelt trimming the stove-lamp. "Have five whiskeys
and sodas," she said, examining her father judicially.

He did not deny the charge; Julia's observation was not to be avoided.

"And what is five?" he demanded with dignity.

"Three too many for you," she answered.

"Do you mean to insinuate that I am intoxicated?" he asked. "Johnny," he turned pathetically
to his friend, "my own daughter insinuates that I am intoxicated."

"No," Julia said, "I don't; I say it does not agree with you, and it doesn't--you know you
ought not to take more than two glasses."

"Is that your opinion, Gillat?" Captain Polkington asked. "Is that what you meant? That I--I
should confine myself to two glasses of whiskey and water?"

"I wasn't thinking of the whiskey," Johnny said apologetically; "it was the gees."

The Captain groaned, but what he said more Julia did not hear; she went out into the kitchen
to get paraffin. But she had no doubt that he defended the attacked point to his own satisfaction,
as he always had done--cards, races, and kindred pleasant, if expensive, things, ever since
the days long ago before he sent in his papers.

These same pleasant things had had a good deal to do with the sending in of the papers; not
that they had led the Captain into anything disgraceful, the compulsion to resign his commission
came solely from relatives, principally those of his wife. It was their opinion that he worked
too little and played too much, and an expensive kind of play. That he drank too much was not
said; of course, the Indian climate and life tempted to whiskey pegs, and nature had not fitted
him for them in large quantities; still that was never cast up against him. Enough was, however,
to bring things to an end; he resigned, relations helped to pay his debts, and he came home
with the avowed intention of getting some gentlemanly employment. Of course he never got any,
it wasn't likely, hardly possible; but he had something left to live upon--a very small private
income, a clever wife, and some useful and conscientious relations.

Somehow the family lived, quite how in the early days no one knew; Mrs. Polkington never spoke
of it at the time, and now, mercifully, she had forgotten part, but the struggle must have
been bitter. Herself disillusioned, her daughters mere children, her position insecure, and
her husband not yet reduced to submission, and always prone to slip back into his old ways.
But she had won through somehow, and time had given her the compensations possible to her nature.
She was, by her own untiring efforts, a social factor now, even a social success; her eldest
daughter was engaged to a clergyman of sufficient, if small, means, and her youngest was almost
a beauty. As to the Captain, he was still there; time had not taken him away, but it had reduced
him; he gave little trouble now even when Johnny Gillat came; he kept so out of the way that
she had almost come to regard him as a negligible factor--which was a mistake.

Both the Captain and his friend had a great respect for Mrs. Polkington, though both felt at
times that she treated them a little hardly. The Captain especially felt this, but he put up
with it; after all it is easier to acquiesce than to assert one's rights, and, as Johnny pointed
out, it was on the whole more comfortable, in spite of horse-hair chairs, down in the basement
than up in the drawing-room. There was no need to make polite conversation down here, and one
might smoke, no matter how cheap the tobacco, and put one's feet up, and really Bouquet was
almost as good as a fire when you once get used to it.

Johnny was of a contented mind, he even looked contented sitting by the empty stove when Julia
came back with the paraffin; the Captain, on the other hand, appeared to be very gloomy and
unhappy; he sat silent all the time his daughter was present. As she was leaving the room Johnny
tried to rouse him. "We might have a game," he suggested, looking towards a pack of cards that
stuck out of a half-opened drawer.

"I have nothing in the world that I can call my own," Captain Polkington answered, without moving.

Mr. Gillat felt in his own lean pockets surreptitiously. "We might play for paper," he said.

And as she went up-stairs Julia listened to hear their chairs scroop on the kamptulikon floor
as they drew them to the table; she was surprised not to hear the sound, but she imagined the
game must have been put off a little so that her father could talk over his troubles. Which,
indeed, was the case, though the magnitude of those troubles she did not guess.

CHAPTER II

THE DEBT

Violet's engagement was an accepted fact. Mr. Frazer came to see the Captain, who received
him in the dining-room--the combined ingenuity of the family could not make the down-stairs
room presentable. The interview was short, but satisfactory; so also was the one with Mrs.
Polkington which followed; with Violet it was longer, but, no doubt, equally satisfactory.
Lunch, too, was all that could be desired. Mrs. Polkington's manners were always gracious,
and to-day she had a charming air of taking Richard into the family--after having shut all
the doors, actual and metaphorical, which led to anything real and personal. The Captain was
rather twittery at lunch, at times inclined to talk too much, at times heavily silent and always
obviously submissive to his wife. Yesterday's excitement was not enough to account for this
in Julia's opinion. "He has been doing something," she decided, and wondered what.

Mrs. Polkington and her daughters all went out that afternoon; Julia, however, returned at
about dusk. As the others had no intention of coming back so soon, there was no drawing-room
tea; a much simpler meal was spread in the dining-room. Julia and her father had only just
sat down to it when they heard Johnny Gillat's knock at the front door, followed a minute afterwards
by Mr. Gillat himself; but when he saw that the Captain was not alone, he stopped on the threshold;
Julia's presence, contrary to custom, seemed to discompose him. He, then, was in her father's
secret, whatever it might be; she guessed as much when she saw his perturbed pink face. However,
she did not say anything, only invited Mr. Gillat to have some tea.

Johnny sat down, and put a small and rather badly tied parcel beside him; next minute he picked
it up again, and began surreptitiously to put it into first one pocket and then another. It
was rather a tight fit, and in his efforts to do it unobtrusively, he made some disturbance,
but no one remarked on it; Captain Polkington because he was too despondent, Julia because
it did not seem worth while. Conversation languished; Julia did what she could, but her father
answered in monosyllables, and Mr. Gillat said, "Very true," or "Ah, yes, yes," eating slice
after slice of thick bread and butter, and filling his mouth very full as if to cork it up
and so prevent his having to answer awkward questions.

At last Captain Polkington rose; "Gillat," he said, "if you have finished, we may as well go
down-stairs."

Johnny set down his half-finished cup of tea with alacrity, and with alacrity followed the
Captain. But Julia followed too; Johnny turned uneasily as he heard her step behind him on
the dark stairs; doubtless, so he told himself, she was going to the kitchen. She was not,
however; on the contrary, she showed every sign of accompanying them to the little room behind.

"Do you want anything, Julia?" her father asked, turning about in the doorway; "I'm busy to-night--I
wish you would go away."

The sentence began with dignity, but ended with querulousness. But Julia was not affected;
she came into the room. "I want to talk to you," she said, closing the door. "You had much
better tell me about it, you will be found out, you know; mother would have guessed there was
something wrong to-day if she had not been so busy with Mr. Frazer."

"Found out in what?" the Captain demanded; "I should like to know of what you accuse me--you,
my own daughter--this is much, indeed."

He paced the hearthrug with outraged dignity, but Julia only drew one of the horse-hair chairs
to the table. "You would do better to tell me," she said; "I might be able to help you--Johnny,
won't you sit down?"

Johnny took the cane deck-chair, sitting down nervously and so near the edge that the old chair
creaked ominously. Captain Polkington paced the rug once or twice more, then he sat down opposite,
giving up all pretence of dignity.

"It is money, of course," Julia went on; "I suppose you lost at the races yesterday--how much?"

The Captain did not answer, he seemed overwhelmed by his troubles. "How much?" Julia repeated,
turning to Mr. Gillat.

"It was rather much," that gentleman answered apologetically.

Julia looked puzzled. "How could he have much to lose?" she asked. "You couldn't, you know,"
bending her brows as she looked at her father--"unless you borrowed--did you borrow?"

"Yes, yes," he said, rather eagerly; "I borrowed--that was it; of course I was going to pay
back--I am going to pay back."

"From whom did you borrow?" Another pause, and the question again, then the Captain explained
confusedly: "The cheque--it came a day early--I merely meant to make use of it for the day--"

"The cheque!" Julia repeated, with dawning comprehension. "The cheque from Slade & Slade that
mother was speaking of this morning. Our cheque, the money we have to live on for the next
three months?"

"My cheque," her father said, with one last effort at dignity; "made out to me--my income that
I have a perfect right to spend as I like; I used my own money for my own purposes."

He forgot that a moment back he had excused the act as a borrowing; Julia did not remind him,
she was too much concerned with the facts to trouble about mere turns of speech. They, like
words and motives, had not heretofore entered much into her considerations; consequences were
what was really important to her--how the bad might be averted, how the good drawn that way,
and all used to the best advantage. This point of view, though it leaves a great deal to be
desired, has one advantage--those who take it waste no time in lamentation or reproof. For
that reason they are perhaps some of the least unpleasant people to confess to.

Julia wasted no words now; she sat for a brief minute, stunned by the magnitude of the calamity
which had deprived them of the largest part of their income for the next three months; then
she began to look round in her mind to see what might be done. Captain Polkington offered a
few not very coherent explanations and excuses, to which she did not listen, and then relapsed
into silence. Johnny sat opposite, rubbing his hands in nervous sympathy, and looking from
father to daughter; he took the silence of the one to be as hopeless as that of the other.

"We thought," he ventured at last, tugging at the parcel now firmly wedged in his pocket. "We
hoped, that is, we thought perhaps we might raise a trifle, it wouldn't be much help--"

But neither of the others were listening to him, and Captain Polkington interrupted with his
own remedy, "We shall have to manage on credit," he said; "we can get credit for this three
months."

"We can't," Julia assured him; "the greater part of that money was to have paid outstanding
bills; we can't live on credit, because we haven't got any to live on."

"That's nonsense," her father said; "it can be done with care and economy, and retrenchments."

Julia did not answer, so Johnny took up the words. "Yes, yes," he said, "one can always retrench;
it is really marvellous how little one can do with, in fact one is better for it; I feel a
different man for having to retrench. Your mother's a wonderful woman"--he stopped, then added
doubtfully as he thought of the lost apple tart--"I suppose, though, she would want to make
a good appearance just now, with the engagement, Mr. Frazer in and out. It is very unfortunate,
very."

By this time he had untied his parcel, and flattening the paper on his knees began to put the
contents on the table. There were some field-glasses, a breast pin, and a few other such things;
when he had put them all out he felt in his waistcoat-pocket for his watch.

"They would fetch a trifle," he said, regarding the row a little proudly.

"Those?" Julia asked, puzzled.

"Yes," Mr. Gillat said; "not a great deal, of course, but it would be a help--it might pay
the butcher's bill. It's a great thing to have the butcher's bill paid; I've heard my landlady
say so; it gives a standing with the other tradespeople, and that's what you want--she often
says so."

"You mean you think of selling them for us?" Julia asked, fixing her keen eyes on Johnny, so
that he felt very guilty, and as if he ought to excuse himself. But before he could do it she
had swept his belongings together. "You won't do anything of the kind," she said.

"Why not?"

"Because we won't have it. Pack them up."

"Oh, but," Johnny protested, "it would be a little help, it would indeed; they would fetch
something, the glasses are good ones, though a bit old-fashioned, and the watch--"

"I don't care, I won't have it," and Julia took the matter into her own hands, and began with
a flushed face to re-pack the things herself.

"Is it that you think I can't spare them?" Gillat asked, still bewildered. "I can--what an
idea," he laughed. "What do I want with field-glasses, now? And as to a watch, my time's nothing
to me!"

"No, I dare say not," Julia said, but she tied the parcel firmly, then she gave it to him.
"Take it away," she said, "and don't try to sell a thing."

She opened the door as she spoke, and he, accepting it as a hint of dismissal, meekly followed
her from the room. When they had reached the hall above he ventured on a last protest. "Why
may I not sell anything?" he asked.

"Because we have not quite come to that," she said, with a ring of bitterness in her voice:
"We have come pretty low, I know, with our dodges and our shifts, but we haven't quite come
to depriving you. Johnny"--and she stretched out a hand to him, a thing which was rare, for
no one thought it necessary to shake hands with Mr. Gillat--"it's very good of you to offer;
I'm grateful to you; I'm awfully glad you did it; you made me ashamed."

Johnny looked at her perplexed; the note of bitterness in her voice had deepened to something
more he was altogether at a loss to understand. But she gave him no opportunity for inquiry,
for she opened the street door.

"Good-bye," she said, her usual self again, "and don't you let me catch you selling those things."

"Oh, I say! But how will you manage?" he protested.

"Somehow; I have got several ideas already; I'm better at this sort of game than you are, you
know."

And she shut the door upon him; then she went back to Captain Polkington.

"Father," he said, "would you mind telling me if you have borrowed any other money? It would
be much simpler if we knew just how we stood."

The Captain seemed to have a painfully clear idea of how he stood. "Your mother," he remarked,
with apparent irrelevance, "is such an unreasonable woman; if she were like you--if she saw
things sensibly. But she won't, she'll make a fuss; she will entirely overlook the fact that
it is my own money that I have lost."

"I am afraid she will," Julia agreed. "Will you tell me if you lost any one else's money as well?"

"Oh, a trifle," the Captain said; "nothing to speak of yesterday; I have borrowed a little
now and again, at cards and so on; a trifling accommodation."

"From whom?"

"Rawson-Clew."

Julia nodded; this was bad, but it might have been worse. Mr. Rawson-Clew was not a personal
friend of the Polkingtons, and he was not a man in an inferior position who might presume upon
his loan to the Captain to establish a friendly footing. On the contrary, he was in a superior
position, so much so that for a moment Julia was at a loss to understand how he came to accommodate
her father. Then she recalled his face--he had been pointed out to her--he looked a good-natured
fool; probably he had met the Captain somewhere and been sorry for him, or perhaps he did not
like to say "no." In any case he had lent the money and, so Julia fancied, would have to wait
a very long time before he saw it again. She dismissed the young man from her mind and fell
to working out plans to meet the more pressing difficulties.

The relations would have to help; not with money; they would not do that to a useful extent,
but with invitations. Chèrie was easily provided for; Aunt Louise had before offered to take
her abroad for the winter; Chèrie did not in the least want to go; it was likely to be nothing
nicer than acting as unpaid companion to a fidgety old lady; but under the present circumstances
she would have to go. For Violet it was not quite so easy; it would look rather odd for her
to go visiting among obliging relatives, seeing that she was only just engaged--how things
looked was a point the Polkingtons always considered. But it would have to be managed; Julia
fancied something might be arranged at Bath, a place which was a cheap fare from Marbridge.
Mrs. Polkington would probably go somewhere for part of the time, then there could be some
real retrenchments not otherwise possible. Mary might be dismissed; Mr. Gillat even might come
to board with them for a little; the outside world need not know he was a guest that paid.

Julia was not satisfied with these plans; they would barely meet the difficulty she knew, even
with credit stretched to the uttermost and the household crippled for some time; but she could
think of nothing better, and determined to suggest them to Mrs. Polkington. With these thoughts
in her mind, she went up-stairs; as she passed the drawing-room, she noticed that the blinds
had not been pulled down; she went to the window to remedy the omission, and so saw in the
street below the young man who, with the debt owing to him, she had lately dismissed from her
mind. There was a street lamp directly below the window, and she stood a moment by the curtain
looking down. Mr. Rawson-Clew was riding past, but slowly; it was quite possible to see his
face, which did not contradict her former opinion--good-natured but foolish, and possibly weak.
He turned in his saddle just below the window to speak to his companion, and she noticed that
it was a stranger with him, a man wearing a single eyeglass, ten years older than the other,
and of a totally different stamp. Indeed, of a stamp differing from any she had seen at Marbridge,
so much so that she wondered how he came to be here, and what he was doing. But this was rather
a waste of time, for the next day she knew.

The next day he came down the street again, but this time alone and on foot. He stopped at
No. 27, and there asked for Captain Polkington. Julia, hearing the knock, and the visitor subsequently
being ushered into the dining-room, guessed it must be Mr. Gillat, perhaps come with his parcel
again; when she saw Mary she asked her.

"No, miss," was the answer; "it's another gentleman to see the master."

"Who?" Julia's mind was alert for fresh difficulties.

"Mr. Rawson-Clew."

"I don't know who he is," Mary went on; "I've never set eyes on him before, but he's a grand
sort of gentleman; I hardly liked to put him in the dining-room, only missis's orders was 'Mr.
Gillat or any gentleman to see the master there.'"

Which was true enough, and might reasonably have been reckoned a safe order, for no one but
Mr. Gillat ever did come to see the Captain.

"I hope I've done right," Mary said.

"Quite right," Julia answered, though she did not feel so sure of it. The name and the vague
description of the visitor somehow suggested to her mind the stranger who had ridden past with
young Mr. Rawson-Clew. She went up-stairs, uneasy as much from intuition as from experience.
In the hall she stood a minute. The dining-room door did not shut too well, the lock was old
and worn, and unless it was fastened carefully, it came open; the Captain never managed to
fasten it, and now it stood ajar; Julia could hear something of what was said within almost
as soon as she reached the top of the kitchen stairs. The visitor spoke quietly, his words
were not audible, but the Captain's voice was raised with excitement.

"The money, sir, the money that your cousin lent--accommodation between gentlemen--"

So Julia heard incompletely, and then another disjointed sentence.

"Do you take me for an adventurer, a sharper? I am a soldier, sir, a soldier and a gentleman--at
least, I was--I mean I was a soldier, I am a gentleman--"

Julia came swiftly up the hall, the instinct of the female to spread frail wings and protect
her helpless belongings (old equally as much as young) was strong upon her. The pushed open
the dining-room door and walked in.

"Father," she said, "is anything the matter?"

Both men turned, the stranger clearly surprised and annoyed by the interruption, the Captain
for a moment thinking of pulling himself together and dismissing his daughter with a lie. But
he did not do it; he was too shaken to think quickly, also there was a sense of reinforcement
in her presence; this he did not realise; indeed, he realised nothing except that she spoke
again before he had collected himself.

"Is it about the money Mr. Rawson-Clew lent you?" she asked.

He nodded, and she turned to the other man, who had risen on her entrance, and now stood with
his back to the evil-smelling stove which Mary had lighted as usual in honour of Captain Polkington's
visitors. She measured him swiftly, and no detail escaped her; the well-bred impassive face,
where the annoyance caused by her entrance showed only in the rather hard eyes; the straight
figure, even the perfection of his tailoring and the style of his boots--she summed it all
up with the rapidity of one who has had to depend on her wits before. And her wits were to
be depended on, for, in spite of the warmth of her protective anger, she felt his superiority
of person, position and ability, and, only too probably, of cause also. She could have laughed
at the contrast he presented to her father and herself and the surroundings. It was perhaps
for this reason that she asked him maliciously, "Have you come to collect the debt?"

The question went home. "Certainly not," he answered haughtily; "the money--"

But the Captain prevented whatever he was going to say. "He thinks I am an adventurer, a sharper,"
he bleated, now thoroughly throwing himself on his daughter's protection; "his intention seems
to be a warning not to try to get anything more out of his cousin--something of that sort."

Julia paid little attention to her father. "You were going to say," she inquired serenely of
Rawson-Clew, "something about the money, I think?"

"No," he answered, with cold politeness. "I only meant to suggest that this is perhaps rather
an unpleasant subject for a lady."

He moved as if he would open the door for her, but she stood her ground. "It is unpleasant,"
she said; "for that reason had we not better get it over quickly? You have not come to collect
the debt, you have come, then, for what?"

"To make one or two things plain to Captain Polkington. I believe I have succeeded; if so,
he will no doubt tell you anything you wish to know. Good afternoon," and he moved to the door
on his own account, whereupon Julia's calmness gave way.

"You do think my father an adventurer, then?" she said. "You think him a sharper and your cousin
a gull, and you came to warn him that if he tried to get anything more in future it was you
with whom he would have to deal. And the money--you were going to say the money was not what
you came for because you never expected to see it again? But you are wrong there; you shall
see it; it will be repaid, every penny of it."

Rawson-Clew paused till she had finished; then, "I am sorry for any misunderstanding there
may have been," he said. "I trust you will trouble yourself no farther in the matter," and
he opened the door.

It was not a denial; it was not, so Julia considered, even an apology; to her it seemed more
like a polite request to mind her own business, and she went up to her room after he had gone
almost unjustly angry, too angry for the time being to think about the rashness of her promise
that the debt should be paid.

"He thought us dirt," she said, sitting on the end of her narrow iron bed. Then she smiled
rather grimly. "And we are pretty much what he thought us! Father sponged the money, and I
decided to myself that the repaying did not much matter. We are, as we looked to him, two grubby
little people of doubtful honesty, in a grubby room with Bouquet," and she laughed outright,
although she was alone, and the faculty for seeing and deriding herself as others might, had
a somewhat bitter flavour. Nevertheless, she was very angry and quite determined to pay the
money somehow, so that at least it should appear to this man that he was mistaken.

An hour later she carried Captain Polkington's tea down to him; when tea was in the drawing-room
his was always sent to him thus. She found him not depressed at all, on the contrary quite
cheerful, and even dignified. He was reading something when she came in, and seeing that she
was alone, he handed it to her. It was from Mr. Rawson-Clew she found, a sort of recognition
of the discharge of the debt, or at least a formal cancelling of it. It was carefully and conclusively
worded, certainly not the unaided work of the young man who had ridden past last night. It
was dictated by the other, she was sure of it; possibly even he had himself discharged the
debt so as to end the matter. Her eyes blazed as she read; he would not even allow her the
satisfaction of giving him the lie--and the misery of straining and pinching to do the impossible.
From pride, or from pity, or from both, he had finished the thing there and then, or he thought
he had. She tore the paper across and then across again.

"What are you doing?" Captain Polkington cried, seizing her hands as she would have torn it
again. "Don't you know it is valuable? I must keep it; he can't go back on it if he wants to."
He took it from her, and began to piece it together. "I can look the world in the face again,"
he said, admiring the fragments. "I am free, free and cleared; that debt would have hung like
a millstone around my neck, but I am free of it; it is cancelled."

"Free!" Julia said with scorn. There are disadvantages in reducing a man to a subordinate position
and allowing him no use for his self-respect; it is a virtue that has a tendency to atrophy.
Julia recognised this with something like personal shame. "Your debt is discharged," she said
gently, "but mine is not; it has been shifted, not cancelled; it lies with me and Mr. Rawson-Clew
now, and it shall be paid somehow."

Captain Polkington hardly heeded what she said; he was still smoothing the pieces of paper.
"What?" he asked, as he put them away in an envelope, but he did not wait for her answer. "It
was very heedless of you to tear it," he said; "but fortunately there is no damage done; it
is perfectly valid, all that can be required."

CHAPTER III

NARCISSUS TRIANDRUS AZUREUM

The élite called to congratulate Mrs. Polkington on her daughter's engagement. All manner of
pleasant things were said by them and by Mrs. Polkington in an atmosphere of social sunshine.
She thought it so nice of them to come so soon, she told them so severally; she knew that they--"you
all," "you, at least," "you, my oldest friend," according to circumstances--would be pleased
to hear about it. She gave sundry little hints of future plans and hopes, among other things
mentioned that it really was hard for poor Violet to have to go and cheer an invalid cousin
just now.

"And the worst of it is," so Mrs. Polkington said, "she may have to be away some time. There
really seems no one else to go, and one could not leave the poor dear alone at this dull time
of the year; and, after all, Bath is not very far off; some of Richard's people live there,
too. I should not be surprised if the young people contrive to see a good deal of each other
in spite of everything. Indeed, had I not thought so, I think I should have insisted on Chèrie's
going instead of Violet, although she would have had to give up her winter abroad."

Here the visitor usually made polite inquiries about this same winter abroad, and heard of
a delightful prospect of several months to be spent in the south of France, unnecessary and
unpleasant details all omitted.

"You do agree with me?" Mrs. Polkington would then ask rather anxiously, as if her hearer's
opinion was the one that really mattered to her. "You do think it wrong to allow Chèrie to
refuse this invitation for Violet's sake? I am very glad you think so. I had quite a difficulty
in persuading her; but, as I told her, it was not a chance she was likely to have again. So
she is going, and Violet will have to spend her winter in Bath. Julia? Oh, Julia was not asked
in either case; she will be staying at home with me."

From all of which it is clear that part of Julia's plan was to be adopted. The other part must
have found favour, too, for soon it became known that the Polkingtons were without a servant.
Mrs. Polkington made inquiries among her friends, but could not hear of any one suitable; she
said it was very tiresome, especially as they had taken advantage of the girl's empty room
to invite an old Anglo-Indian friend of her husband's to stay.

Thus was the difficulty tided over, and with so good a face that few in Marbridge had any idea
that it existed. Certainly none knew of the pinching and screwing and retrenching which went
on indoors at No. 27. One or two tradesmen could have told of long accounts unpaid, and some
relations living at a distance were troubled by appeals for help, a form of begging which,
at this date of their history did not hurt the Polkingtons' sensibility much.

Mrs. Polkington suffered in body, if not in mind, during this hard time, though fortunately
she was able to be away a month. The Captain suffered a good deal more, which was perhaps only
just; and Johnny Gillat suffered with him, which was not just, though that did not seem to
occur to him. As for Julia, she minded least of any one, though in some ways she had the most
to put up with; but the plan was hers, and consequently she was too interested in its success
to trouble about the inevitable discomforts of the working out.

There was one matter which did trouble her, however--the debt to Rawson-Clew. She had no money,
and no possibility of raising any; yet it must and should be paid, for her father's name could
not otherwise be cleared. She turned over in her own mind how she could earn enough, but there
was little hope of that; it seemed rather a large sum for a girl to earn, and any sum was impossible
to her; she had no gifts to take to market, no ability for any of the arts, not enough education
for teaching, no training for commerce. The only field open to her was that of a nursery-governess
or companion; neither was likely to enable her to pay this debt of honour quickly. Once, nearly
a year ago, she had had a sort of half-offer of the post of companion. It was while she was
staying with a friend; during the visit there had come to the house an old Dutchman of the
name of Van Heigen, a business acquaintance of her host. He had stayed nearly a week, and in
that time taken a great fancy to her.

In those first bad days after the Captain's leaving the army, the Polkingtons had lived, or
perhaps more accurately, drifted about, a good deal abroad. It was then that Julia picked up
her only accomplishment, a working knowledge of several languages. She had also acquired one
other thing, perhaps not an accomplishment, a rather unusual knowledge of divers men and divers
ways. It may have been that these qualities made her more attractive to the old Dutchman than
the purely English game-expert daughters of the house. Or it may have been her admirable cooking;
the cook was ill during the greater part of her visit, and her offer to help was gladly accepted
and duly appreciated. Something, at all events, pleased the old man, so that before he left
he asked her, half in fun, if she would come and live with his wife. This lady, it seemed,
had bad health, and no daughters; she always had a companion of some sort, and was never satisfied
with the one she had. In Holland, as in England, it seemed posts were not easy to fill satisfactorily,
for those often in want of employment were also constitutionally inefficient.

At the time Julia had laughingly refused the offer, now she recalled it, and thought seriously
about it. It would not be very nice, a mixture of upper servant and lady help; the Van Heigens
were bulb growers, old-fashioned people, the lady a thorough huisvrouw, nothing more probably.
Still that did not matter; such things need not be considered if the end could be attained
that way. But unfortunately it did not look very likely; the Van Heigens would pay less to
a companion than English people would, not enough to buy clothes; there was practically nothing
to be made out of it. Julia was obliged to admit the fact to herself, and reluctantly to dismiss
the Dutchman and his offer from her thoughts.

But curiously enough, they were brought to her mind again before long; not later, indeed, than
that evening, when she went to a dance at a neighbour's house. At this dance she met a Mr.
Alexander Cross. He was not a native of Marbridge, not at all like any of them; it is quite
possible that they would have rather looked down upon him; Julia recognised that he barely
came up to her mother's standard of a gentleman. He seemed to be a keen business man of the
energetic new sort; he also seemed to deal in most things, flowers among them. He told Julia
something about that part of his business, for he and it interested her so much that she asked
him leading questions. He explained how the beautiful orchid he wore in his coat had decreased
in value lately. A few years ago, when there had been but one specimen with just that marking
in all the world, the plant had sold for £900; now that it had been multiplied it was worth
only £25, nothing practically.

"It was a novelty then," he explained; "some novelties are worth a great deal. There's one
I know of now I could do some good business with if I could get hold of it. But I can't; the
old fool that's got it won't sell it for any price, and he can't half work it himself. It's
a blue daffodil--Narcissus Triandrus Azureum he calls it; or rather, to give it its full title,
Narcissus Triandrus Azureum Vrouw Van Heigen; so called, I believe, in honour of his wife,
or his mother."

Julia wondered if the Van Heigen who owned the precious flower was the old Dutchman of her
acquaintance. "Is he a bulb grower?" she asked, though without giving any reason for her question.

"Yes," Cross answered, "a Dutch bulb grower; that's why he won't make the profit he might;
he comes of generations of growers, and they venerate their bulbs. He has cranky notions of
how things ought to be done, and no other way will do for him."

"How did he get a blue daffodil? Do you think it is real? It seems very unusual."

"It is unusual; that's where the value comes in; but it's real fast enough, though I don't
believe he grew the first, as he says, in his own garden. It's my opinion that one of his collectors
sent him the first bulb; he has collectors all over the world, you know, looking for new things."

"What is he going to do with it?" Julia asked.

"He is multiplying it at present; at first he had only one, now, of course, he has a few more;
when he has got enough he will hybridise. You don't know what that is. Cross-breed with it;
use the blue with the old yellow daffodil as parents to new varieties. That's ticklish work;
growers can't afford to do it till they have a fair number of the new sort; but, of course,
they occasionally get something good that way."

Julia listened, much interested, though, to tell the truth, the money value of the thing fascinated
her more than anything else.

"Will he never sell any of his blue bulbs?" she asked.

"Oh, yes, in time," Cross answered; "but not while they are worth anything much to the growers."

"What are they worth? I mean, what would it be worth if there was only one?"

"I don't know; I dare say I could get £400 for the single bulb."

"But if there were more they would not be worth so much? If there were five, what would they
be worth?"

"Pretty well as much, very likely £300 for one bulb. Van Heigen would give a written guarantee
with it not to sell another bulb to another grower."

"But he could keep the others himself?" Julia asked. "That would be eating his cake and having
it too. Tell me," she said, feeling she was imitating the Patriarch when he was pleading for
Sodom and Gomorrah, "if there were ten bulbs, what could you get for one."

Cross was amused by her interest. "A hundred pounds, I dare say," he said; "but I shall never
have the chance. The trade will never touch those blue daffodils while they are worth having.
When the old man does begin to sell them--when they are worth very little to the growers--he
will sell to collectors, cranky old connoisseurs, from choice. That's what I mean when I say
he doesn't understand business as business; he would rather sell his precious blue daffodils
where they were what he calls 'appreciated.' He would sooner they went for a moderate price
to people who would worship them, than make an enormous profit out of them."

"But the connoisseurs could sell them," Julia objected. "If I were a connoisseur and bought
one when they were for sale, I could sell it to you if I liked."

"Yes, but you wouldn't," Cross said; "if you were a connoisseur you would not dream of parting
with your bulb. You wouldn't have the slightest wish to make a hundred per cent. on your purchase,
or two or three hundred either. Also I shouldn't buy."

"Why not?"

"I couldn't afford to have my name mixed up with the business."

Julia looked at him critically. "You could afford that the business should be done without
your name?" she suggested.

He laughed. "I could introduce the seller, did such an impossible person exist, to some one
who could buy."

It was Julia's turn to laugh, that soundless laugh of hers which gave the feeling of a joke
only half shared. "For a consideration, of course," she said.

"Something would naturally stick to my fingers," Cross answered, amused rather than offended.

He was a good deal amused by his partner, finding her more interesting than most of the girls
he met that evening; afterwards he forgot her, for two days later he left the place, and thought
no more either about Miss Polkington or the talk he had had with her.

As for her, it was not clear what she thought, but the next day she wrote to London for a second-hand
Dutch dictionary, and then went to call at the house with the largest library that she knew.
When she came away from there she carried with her a book she had borrowed, a Dutch version
of Gil Blas, which she remembered to have once seen tucked away in a corner. Shortly afterwards,
as soon as the dictionary came, she set to reading the edifying work, and found it easier than
she expected. What one learns from necessity in childhood stays in the memory, and a good knowledge
of German and a smallish one of Dutch will carry one through greater difficulties than Gil Blas.

Before her mother and sisters came back to Marbridge, Julia had written to the old Dutchman.

When Mrs. Polkington heard Julia wanted to go to Holland and live in a Dutch family she was
surprised. This news was not given to her till the spring had fairly set in, for it was not
till then that Julia had been able to get everything arranged. It is no use telling people
your plans unless you are quite sure of carrying them out, and you are never sure of that long
before starting; at least, that was Julia's opinion. It was also her opinion that it was quite
unnecessary to tell all details. She said she was tired of being at Marbridge, and wanted a
complete change; also that when there were three grown-up sisters at home it seemed rather
desirable that one should go away, for a time at least. When Violet suggested that it was odd
to have chosen Holland in preference to France or Germany, she replied truthfully that the
one was possible to her, the others were not.

Mrs. Polkington, who quite approved of the plan, saw no objection to Holland, adding as a recommendation,
"It is so much more original to go there." She did not fail to remark on the originality when
she embroidered Julia's going to her friends and acquaintances.

Captain Polkington was the only member of the family who regretted this going. He had always
regarded Julia as something between an ally and a tolerant go-between; and since she had wrung
from him the confession of his difficulties, and helped in the arrangement of them, his feeling
for her had leaned more and more towards the former. He had even come to feel a certain protectiveness
in her presence, which made him really sorry she was going. Johnny Gillat was sorrier still.

Johnny had gone back to dismal lodgings in town now; he only heard of the plan by letter, and
the Captain's letters were very prolix, and not informing. Mr. Gillat's own letters were even
worse, for if they lacked the prolixity, they lacked the little information also. On receipt
of the Captain's information he merely wrote to ask when Julia was going, and what time she
would be in London, as he would like to give himself the pleasure of meeting her train.

He did give himself that pleasure; he was at the station half an hour and ten minutes before
the train, so as to be sure of being in time. He was on the platform when the train came in;
Julia saw him, a rather ridiculous figure, his shabby coat tremendously brushed and tightly
buttoned, a gay tie displayed to the uttermost to hide a ragged shirt front, his round, pink
face, with its little grizzled moustache, wearing a look of melancholy which made it appear
more than ordinarily foolish. He was standing where the part of the train which came from Marbridge
could not possibly stop, much in the way of porters and trucks; Julia had to find him and find
her luggage too, but he seemed to think he was of much service. Julia's hard young heart smote
her when he gave twopence to her porter.

"Johnny," she said, as he took her ticket on the District Railway, "I am going to pay for my
ticket."

It was only threepence, but there are people who have to consider the threepences; if Julia
was one, she knew that Mr. Gillat was another, and she had allowed for this threepence, and
he probably had not. He demurred, but she insisted. "Then I won't let you come with me;" and
he gave way.

They were alone in a compartment, and he shouted above the rattle of the train something about
her being missed at Marbridge.

"Oh, no," she said, "mother and the girls think it is a good thing I am going."

"Your father and I will miss you," Johnny told her.

"You?"

"Yes; I'll miss you very much--we both shall; we shall sit down-stairs, each side of the fire-place,
and think how you used to come there sometimes. And when I wait in the dining-room when your
father's not at home, I'll remember how you used to come down there and chat. We had many a
chat, didn't we?--you and me, and Bouquet burning between us--there was nobody could trim Bouquet
like you. But perhaps you'll be back before winter comes round again?"

"I don't know when I shall be back," was all Julia could find to say. The idea of being missed
like this was new and strange to her; the Polkingtons' feelings were so much guided by what
was advisable, or expedient, that there was not usually much room for simple emotions. She
felt somehow grateful to Johnny for caring a little that she was going, though at the same
time she was unpleasantly convinced that she did not deserve it.

"It won't be at all the same at No. 27," Mr. Gillat was saying. "Your mother--she's a wonderful
woman, a wonderful woman, and Miss Violet's a fine girl, so's the other, handsome both of them;
but they're in the drawing-room, you know, and you--you used to come down-stairs."

It did not sound very explicit, but Julia understood what he meant. Just then the train stopped
at a station, and other passengers got in, so they had little more talk.

In time they reached Mark Lane, from whence it is no great walk to the Tower Stairs. There
is a cheap way of going to Holland from there for those who do not mind spending twenty-four
hours on the journey; Julia did not mind. When she and Johnny Gillat arrived at the Tower Stairs
they saw the steamer lying in the river, a small Dutch boat, still taking in cargo from loaded
lighters alongside. A waterman put them on board, or, rather, took them to the nearest waiting
lighter, from whence they scrambled on board, Mr. Gillat very unhandily. A Dutch steward received
them, and taking Johnny for a father come to see his daughter off, assured them in bad English
that she would be quite safe, and well taken care of.

"She shall haf one cabin to herself, a bed clean. Yes, yes; there is no passenger but one,
a Holland gentleman; he will not speak with the miss, he is friend of captain."

Johnny nodded a great many times, though he did not quite follow what was said. Then Julia
told him he had better go, and not keep the waterman any longer.

He agreed, and began fumbling in his pocket, from whence he pulled out one of his badly-tied
parcels.

"A keepsake," he said, putting it into her hand; then, without waiting to say good-bye, he
scrambled over the side in such a hurry that he as nearly as possible fell into the river.

Julia ran to the side in some anxiety; some one shouted, "Look out," and some one else, "Hold
up," and a third something less complimentary. Then a man laid hold of Mr. Gillat's legs and
guided him safely on to the bobbing lighter. There he turned and waved his hat to Julia before
he got into the waiting boat.

"Good-bye," he called.

"Good-bye," she answered. "Oh, do be careful!"

He was not careful, but the waterman had him now, and took him ashore. She watched him, his
round face was suffused with smiles; he waved his hat once more just as he reached the stairs.
He slipped once getting up them, but he was up now, and turned to wave once before he started
down the street.

It was not till then that Julia became aware of a small sound close at hand; there was a good
deal of noise going on, shouting, the rattling of cranes, and the thud of shifting bales, with
now and then the hoot of a steamer and the escape of steam, and under all, the restless lapping
of the water. But through it all she now heard a much smaller sound quite close, a regular
tick, tick. She glanced at the parcel she had forgotten, then in an instant, as a sudden idea
occurred to her, she had the paper off. Yes, it was. It was Johnny's great old-fashioned gold
watch, with the fetter chain dangling at the end.

She stood quite still with the thing in her hand, her mouth set straight, and her eyes growing
glitteringly bright. The round gilded face stared up at her, reminding her in some grotesque
way of Johnny; poor, generous, honest, foolish old Johnny! She looked away quickly, a sudden
desire not to go with this moon-faced companion took possession of her--a desire not to go
at all, a horrible new-born doubt about it.

But feelings for abstract right and wrong, like personal likes and dislikes, do not grow strongly
where expediency and advisability and advantage have to rule; she was only going to do what
she must in Holland; the debt must be paid, honour demanded no less; the blue daffodil was
the only hope of paying it. She was not going to steal a bulb exactly; she was going to get
it somehow, as a gift, perhaps, opportunity must show how; and when it was hers, she could
do with it as she pleased, there was no wrong in that. She must go; she must do it; the thing
was so necessary as to be unavoidable, and not open to question. She looked down, and her eye
fell on the watch again; it stared up at her in the same vacant way as Johnny had done that
day when he wanted to sell it and his other things to help them out of their justly earned,
sordid difficulties. With shame she had prevented that, feeling the cause unworthy of the sacrifice.
But this sacrifice, for a still more unworthy cause, she was too late to prevent. Johnny had
gone. She looked earnestly to see if he was among those who loitered about the stairs, or those
in the more distant street. But she could not see him, he was gone clean from sight; there
was only the busy, unfamiliar life of the river around; yellow, sunlit water; the crowded craft,
and the great stately wonder of the Tower Bridge silently raising and parting its solid roadway
to let some boat go, as she would soon go down to the sea.

CHAPTER IV

THE OWNER OF THE BLUE DAFFODIL

Vrouw Snieder, the notary's wife, sat by her window at work on a long strip of red crochet
lace. From her place she could see all who came up the street, and, there being a piece of
looking-glass set outside, at right angles to the pane, also most who came down it. This, though
doubtless very informing, did not help the progress of the lace; but that was of no consequence,
Mevrouw always had some red lace in making, and it might as well be one piece as another. With
her, were her two daughters, Denah and Anna, though Anna had no business there, being supposed
just then to be preparing vegetables for dinner. She had only come into the room to fetch keys,
but a remark from her mother brought her to the window.

"There goes Vrouw Van Heigen's English miss," the old lady said, and both her daughters looked
at once.

"She has been marketing, I see; she seems a good housewife."

"She walks in the road," Denah observed critically; "It is so conspicuous, I could not do it;
besides, one might be run over."

"The English always walk in the road," her sister answered; "they think everything will get
out of their way, and they do not at all mind being conspicuous."

"The English miss should mind," Denah said, "for she is not pretty; no one looks at her to
admire; besides she is poor and has to work hard."

"Yes, yes," her mother agreed placidly; "she is a fine worker. Vrouw Van Heigen is full of
her praises; such a cook--she has twenty new dishes, and everything is done quickly, one cannot
tell how; it is like having a magician in the house, so she says. Ah, there is Herr Van de
Greutz's Marthe going into the apothecary's. I wonder now--"

But her daughters were not interested in Marthe; the English girl at the Van Heigens' interested
them a great deal more. They continued to talk about her a great deal afterwards, Denah going
back with her sister to the kitchen and the vegetables, so as to be able to do so undisturbed.

"I will help you with these," she said; "then we can go out."

She sat down and took up a knife. "It is strange how much Vrouw Van Heigen thinks of that girl,"
she said. "She has been there but one month and already there is no one like her. She does
not keep her in her place very well; were she a daughter more could not be said. I wonder how
Mijnheer likes it."

"It was Mijnheer who engaged her," Anna said. "It is not likely that he regrets. I hear that
she has written some English letters for him since one of the clerks has been ill. My father
says she can cook like a Frenchwoman, and that is something. As for Joost, it is surely of
little importance to him, he is too quiet to say anything to her; she talks little; she must
be shy."

Denah had nothing to say to this, although, seeing in which person her own interest in the
Van Heigens lay, she possibly found some comfort in the assurance. After a little she remarked,
"That girl has no accomplishments; she is as old-fashioned as our Aunt Barje, a huisvrouw,
no more. It is strange, for the English women make fun of us for this, and pretend that they
are educated and advanced above us; she is not, she can do nothing but speak a few languages;
she cannot sing nor play, she has read no science, she cannot draw, nor model in wax, nor make
paper flowers, nor do bead work; she could not even crochet till I showed her how. I wonder
if she has made any progress with the pattern I gave her. Shall we go and see by and by? I
might set her right if she is in a difficulty, and we could at the same time inquire after
Mevrouw's throat; she had a weakness, I noticed, on Tuesday."

Anna agreed; she was a most obliging sister, and a while later they set out together for the
Van Heigens' house. They did not walk in the wide, clean road, but were careful to keep to
the path, pausing a moment to consult before starting for the other side when it was necessary
to cross over.

The Van Heigens' house stood on the outskirts of the town, a long way back from the road. The
bulb garden lay all round it, though immediately in front was a lawn so soft and green that
no one ever walked on it. The house was of wood, painted white, and had a high-pitched roof
of strange, dark-coloured tiles; a canal lay on two sides, which ought to have made it damp,
but did not.

Vrouw Van Heigen was pleased to see the girls, and received them with an effusiveness which
might have suggested that a longer time than four days had elapsed since they last met. She
kissed them on both cheeks, and led them in by the hand; she asked particularly how they were,
and how their mother was, and how their father was, and if they were not very tired with their
walk, and would they not have lemonade--yes, they must have lemonade. "Julia, Julia," she called,
"bring lemonade, bring glasses and the lemonade."

Julia came from a little room which led off the sitting-room, carrying the things required
on a papier-maché tray. She wore a large, blue-print apron, for she had been shelling shrimps
when she was called, and though she stayed to wash her hands, she did not think it necessary
to remove her apron. She had observed it to be the custom hereabouts to wear an apron of some
sort all day long, and she did not differentiate between the grades of aprons as Denah and
Anna did. She set down the tray and shook hands ceremoniously with the sisters and made all
the proper inquiries in the properest way; she had also observed that to be the custom of the
place. Then she poured out the lemonade and handed it round, and was afterwards sent to fetch
a glass for herself and a little round tray to set it on--every one had a little tray for fear
of spoiling the crimson plush table-cover. Julia cannot be said to have been anxious for lemonade;
Vrouw Van Heigen's growing affection for her often found expression in drinks at odd times,
a good deal more often than she appreciated. On this occasion, since she was doing the pouring
out herself, she was able to get off with half a glass.

They all sat round the table and talked; Julia talked a great deal the least, but that did
not matter, the others had so much to say. She listened, admiring the way in which one little
incident--a dog running on the tram line and being called off just in time by its owner--served
them for a quarter of an hour. What economy of ideas it was, and how little strain to make
conversation! Then came Mevrouw's throat, the little hoarseness Denah had noticed on Tuesday.
It was nothing, the good lady declared, she had not felt it. Oh, if they insisted on noticing
it, she would own to a weakness but no more than was usual to her when the dust was about,
and truly the dust was terrible now, she could not remember when it had been so bad so early
in June. And so on, and so on, until they somehow came round to crochet lace, when Julia was
obliged to confess that she had not made much progress with the pattern. She exhibited a very
small piece with several mistakes in it.

"Why," cried Denah, "I have done already almost half a metre of the piece I began at the same
time. Is it difficult for you?"

Julia said it was, and Vrouw Van Heigen added by way of apology for her, that she had been
busy making a cool morning dress.

"For yourself?" Anna asked. "Do you make your dresses?"

"This is for Mevrouw," Julia answered; "but I can make my own."

The Polkingtons had had to, and also to put an immense amount of thought and work into it,
because they were bound to get a fine effect for a small expense, and that is not possible
without a large outlay of time and consideration. Julia did not explain this to the present
company, it would have been rather incomprehensible to them.

Anna was at once fired with a desire to make herself a cool morning dress, and asked a dozen
questions as to how, while Denah's busy fingers undid the faulty crochet work, and her tongue
explained the mistakes. Mevrouw did not listen much to either, but noticing the glasses were
empty, pressed the visitors in vain to have more lemonade. They refused, and finding them quite
obdurate she toddled into the little room where Julia had been doing the shrimps, to come back
again, bearing a large bladder-covered bottle of peach-brandy. The girls declined this very
firmly, but Julia was sent for more glasses, and soon they were all sipping the rich flavoured
liqueur without protestation.

It was over this that they planned an expedition to the wood. No one knew quite who suggested
it; when people all talk at once it is not easy to say who originates an idea; anyhow, it was
agreed that the weather was so dry and the trees so lovely and Mevrouw so seldom went out.
She really felt--did she not?--that she would enjoy making a small excursion, she was so wonderfully
well--for her. What did Anna think her mother would say? Perhaps they might join together for
a drive?

Anna thought her mother would be delighted; indeed, she often spoke of the charms of a country
excursion; Denah was called upon to corroborate, and did so volubly. Where should they go?
Half-a-dozen different places were suggested; why not go here, or there, or to the wood? Yes,
the wood, that would be lovely. They could take their tea out; if they were well wrapped up,
of course, protected from the damp and the wind, might it not be possible?

So by degrees the plan was brought to the first stage. Denah and Anna were to talk it over
with their mother, and if she thought favourably of it, then "we must see." By that time Denah
had set the crochet work quite straight, and with kisses and hand-shakings the visitors departed.
Julia went back to the little room where first she washed the glasses that had been used, afterwards
she finished the shrimps and washed them and put them ready for supper in a china dish like
a large soap dish on three feet. When that was done, it was necessary to lay the table for
dinner and superintend the getting of that meal.

The Van Heigens dined at four. It had taken Julia all the month she had been with them to in
any way get used to that time. Mijnheer and the only son, Joost, came in from the office for
two hours then. The office joined the house and the great dim orderly bulb barns joined the
office, so the father and son had not far to come in whichever place they might be. Julia and
Mevrouw fetched the food from the kitchen and cleared the table, as well as getting their own
meal; but that was nothing when you were used to it, any more than was the curious butter and
nutmeg sauce that always seemed to play a part at dinner.

Mijnheer had a good deal to say to Julia, principally about his business. The letters she had
written for him during the illness of the clerk who usually did his English correspondence,
had given her some little insight into it. This she had profited by, being in the first instance
really interested, and, in the second, not slow to see that the old man, far from resenting
it, had been pleased. He talked a good deal about his affairs now, giving her little bits of
information and explaining rather proudly his method of doing business, and his father's and
his grandfather's before him. Joost, as usual, said little or nothing; he must have been five
or six and twenty, but he had hardly ever left the parental roof, and was usually so hard at
work that he had little time or inclination for frivolity. He had earnest child-like blue eyes
that Julia did not care to look at, any more than she did the round yellow face of Mr. Gillat's
watch. This was rather a pity as she could not always avoid it, and certainly he looked at
her a good deal, in fact whenever he thought he was not observed. Of course he always was observed,
by her at least; that was a foregone conclusion; the observation gave her some uneasiness.

After dinner the father and son went to sit on the veranda, and Mevrouw helped Julia take the
dishes into the white marble kitchen and the glasses into the little off-room. Later, Julia
came to sit on the veranda, too--it was somewhat stuffy being all closed in with glass windows.
There they drank pale tea, the pot kept simmering on a spirit-stove, and read the foreign papers
which had just come. Mevrouw did not read, she made tea and did crochet work, a strip like
Vrouw Snieder's, only yellow instead of red. Julia, it is to be feared, did not try to master
the pattern so kindly set right by Denah; she could not resist the breath from the outside
world which the papers brought.

At six o'clock Mijnheer and his son went back to the office, and Julia, having washed the tea-cups,
joined Mevrouw in the sitting-room. It was never very light in that room, for the walls were
covered with a crimson flock paper and the woodwork was black; while the windows, which looked
on the canal, were always shaded till dark. They sat here at work on the morning gown, till
supper time. Mijnheer sometimes came in an hour before supper, as early as half-past eight;
Joost had usually too much to do to come in before half-past nine. After supper, when the things
were cleared away, they had prayers; Mijnheer read a chapter from the Bible, and they sat round
the table and listened, and afterwards he said, "Now we will pray," and they sat a while in
silence. Julia sat, too, her keen, observing eyes cast down and a curious stillness about her.
After that every one went to bed; Julia and the maidservant had two little rooms right up in
the eaves of the house; the family slept on the floor below. Julia was glad of this, though
it was possible to imagine her room would be very hot in summer and very cold in winter. But
she was glad to be well above the sleeping house, and to be able to look from her window across
the wide country, over the dark bulb gardens--laid out like a Chinese puzzle with their eight-foot
hedges--to the lights of the town on the one hand, and, better still, to the dim curve of the
Dunes on the other. It is to be feared she sometimes spent a longer time at her window than
was wise, seeing the early hour at which she had to rise; but no one was troubled by it, for
she was careful to take off her shoes first thing; the rooms were unceiled, and it was necessary
to tread lightly if one would not disturb people below.

On the day after that of Anna and Denah's visit, Herr Van Heigen offered to show Julia the
bulb barns. It was a Saturday, and so after dinner, the workmen having all gone home, there
was no one about and she could ascend the steep barn ladders without any suffering in her modesty.
At least that was what Mijnheer thought; Julia, her modesty being of a very serviceable order,
may have given the matter less consideration, but she accepted the offer.

The barns were very large and high, many of them three storeys and each storey lofty. The light
inside was dim, a sort of dun colour, and the air very dry and full of a strange, not unpleasant
smell. Everything was as clean as clean could be; no litter, no dirt, the floor nicely swept,
the shelves that ran all round and rose, tier upon tier, in an enormous stand that occupied
the whole centre of the place, all perfectly orderly. On the shelves the bulbs lay, every one
smooth and clean and dry, sorted according to kind and quality; Mijnheer knew them all; he
could, like a book-lover with his books, put his hand upon any that he wished in the dark.
It seemed to Julia that there were hundreds upon hundreds of different sorts. Not only hyacinths
and tulips and such well-known ones in endless sizes and varieties, but little roots with six
and seven syllable names she had never heard before, and big roots, too, and strange cornery
roots, a never-ending quantity.

Mijnheer told her they were not yet all in; many were in the ground and had still to be lifted.
This she knew, for she had seen the dead tops of some in the little enclosed squares where
they grew; from her bedroom window, too, she saw others still in bloom--a patch, the size of
a tennis-lawn squared, of scarlet ranunculous, little blood-red rosettes, sheltered by a high
close-clipped hedge. And another patch of iris hispanica, fairy flowers of palest gold and
lavender, quivering at the top of their grey-green stalks like tropical dragon-flies hovering
over a field of growing oats. These it seemed, and many others, would be brought in by and
by, then the great barns would be really full. Mijnheer took up a root here and there, telling
her something of the history of each; explaining how the narcissus increased and the tulips
grew; showing her hyacinth bulbs cut in half-breadthways with all the separate severed layers
distended by reason of the growing and swelling of the seeds between.

"Each little seed will be a bulb by and by," he said, "but not yet. When we cut the root first,
we set it in the ground and these begin to grow and become in time as you see them now. Afterwards
they grow bigger and bigger till their parent can no longer contain them."

"Does it take long for them to grow full size?" Julia asked.

"It takes five years to grow the finest hyacinth bulbs," Mijnheer answered, "but inferior ones
are more quick. And when the bulb is grown, there is one bloom--fine, magnificent, a truss
of flowers--after that it deteriorates, it is, one may say, over. Ah, but it is magnificent
while it is there! There is no flower like the hyacinth; had I my way, I would grow nothing
else, but people will not have them now. They must have novelties. 'Give us narcissus,' they
say; 'they are so graceful'--I do not see the grace--'Or iris'--well, some are fine, I allow,
but they do not last in bloom as do hyacinths. The mourn iris of Persia is very beautiful;
we have not one flowering yet, but we shall have by and by. I will show you then; you will
think it very handsome. When it blooms I go to it in the morning and dust the sand from the
petals. I feel that I can reverence that flower; it is most beautiful."

"Is it very scarce?" Julia asked.

"Somewhat," Mijnheer answered; "but we have things that are more so, we have many novelties
so called. Ah, but we have one novelty that is a true one, it is a wonder, it has no price,
it is priceless!" He drew a deep breath of almost awed pride. "It is the greatest rarity that
has ever been reared in Holland, a miracle, in fact--a blue daffodil!"

Julia refrained from mentioning that she had heard of the rarity before; she leaned against
the centre stand and listened while the old man grew eloquent, with the eloquence of the connoisseur,
not the tradesman, over his treasure. There was no need for her to say much, only to put a
question here and there, or make a sympathetic comment; with little or no effort she learned
a good deal about the wonderful bulb. It seemed that it really had been grown in the Van Heigens'
gardens, and not imported from Asia, as Mr. Cross thought. There were six roots by this time;
not so many as had been hoped and expected, it did not increase well, and was evidently going
to be difficult to grow.

"Would you like to know the name which it will immortalise?" the old man asked at last. "It
is called Narcissus Triandrus Azurem Vrouw Van Heigen."

"You named it in honour of Mevrouw, I suppose?" Julia said.

"I did not; Joost did."

"Mijnheer Joost?" she repeated.

"Yes," the father answered. "It is his, not mine; to him belongs the honour. It is he who has
produced this marvel. How? That is a secret; perhaps even I could not tell you if I would;
Nature is wonderful in her ways; we can only help her, we cannot create. Yes, yes, it is Joost
who has done this. He seemed to you a retiring youth? Yet he is the most envied and most honoured
man of our profession. I would sooner--there are many men in Holland who would sooner--have
produced this flower than have a thousand pounds. And he is my son--you may well believe that
I am proud."

And Mijnheer beamed with satisfaction in his son and his blue daffodil. But Julia leaned against
the stand in the dry twilight, saying nothing. Money, it appeared, was not then the measure
of all things; neither intrinsically, as with Mr. Alexander Cross, nor for what it represented
in comfort and position, as with her own family, did it rank with these bulb growers. They,
these people whom her mother would have called market gardeners, tradespeople, it seemed, loved
and reverenced their work; they thought about it and for it, were proud of it and valued distinction
in it, and nothing else. The blue daffodil was no valuable commercial asset, it was an honour
and glory, an unparalleled floral distinction--no wonder Cross could not buy or exploit it.
In a jump Julia comprehended the situation more fully than that astute business man ever could;
but at the same time she felt a little bitter amusement--it was this, this treasured wonder,
that she thought to obtain.

The next day, Sunday, Julia went to church with Mijnheer and Joost; Mevrouw did not find herself
well enough for church, but she insisted that Julia should not stay at home on her account.
Accordingly the girl accompanied father and son to the Groote Kerk and listened to the rather
dull service there. For the most part she sat with her eyes demurely cast down, though once
or twice she looked round the old barn-like place, and wondered if there were any frescoes
under the whitewash of the walls and whence came the faint, all pervading smell, like a phantom
of incense long forgotten. When service was over and they came out into the sunny street, Mijnheer
announced that he was going to see a friend. Julia, of course, must hurry home to set the table
for the mid-day coffee drinking, and afterwards prepare for dinner. Joost was going back, likewise,
and to her it was so natural a thing they should go together that she never thought about it.
It did not, however, seem so to him, and after walking a few paces in embarrassment, he said--

"You would perhaps prefer I did not walk with you?"

"Oh, no," she answered, in some surprise; "I shall be pleased, if you are going the same way,
that is."

He fidgeted, becoming more embarrassed. "You are sure you do not mind?" he said. "It is a little
conspicuous for you."

Then she understood, and looked up with twinkling eyes. "I am afraid I am conspicuous, anyhow,"
she said.

This was true enough, for her clothes, fitting like an Englishwoman's, and put on like a Frenchwoman's
(the Polkingtons all knew how to dress), were unlike any others in sight. Her face, too, dark
and thin and keenly alert, was unlike, and her light, easy walk; and if this was not enough
it must be added that she was now walking in the road because the pavement was so crowded.

Joost stepped off the path to make room for her and she saw by his face that his mind was not
at ease.

"Pray, Mijnheer," she said, in her softest tones, and her voice had many tones as her companion
had not failed to notice, though he was not aware that the softest was also usually the most
mischievous, "will you not walk the other side of the way? Then you will not be conspicuous
at all."

"I do not mind it," he said, blushing, and Julia decided that his father's description of him
as a retiring youth was really short of the mark. They walked along together down the quiet,
bright streets; there were many people about, but nobody in a hurry, and all in Sunday clothes,
bent on visiting or decorous pleasure-making. Everywhere was sunny and everything looked as
if it had had its face washed; week days in the town always looked to Julia like Sundays, and
Sundays, this Sunday in particular, looked like Easter.

In time they came to the trees that bordered the canal; there were old Spanish houses here,
a beautiful purplish red in colour, and with carving above the doors. Julia looked up at her
favourite doorpiece--a galleon in full sail, a veritable picture in relief, unspoiled by three
hundred years of wind and weather.

"I think this is the most beautiful town I was ever in," she said. Her companion looked surprised.

"Do you like it?" he asked. "It must be quite unlike what you are used to, all of it must be."

"It is," she answered, "all of it, as you say--the place, the ways, the people."

"And you like it? You do not think it--you do not think us what you call slow, stupid?"

She was a little surprised, it had never occurred to her that he, any more than the others,
would think about her point of view. "No," she answered, "I admire it all very much, it is
sincere, no one appears other than he is, or aims at being or seeming more. Your house is the
same back and front, and you, none of you have a wrong side, the whole life is solid right
through."

Joost did not quite understand; had she not guessed that to be likely she would hardly have
spoken so frankly. "I fear I do not understand you," he said; "it is difficult when we do not
know each other's language perfectly."

"We know it very well," Julia answered; "as well as possible. If we were born in the same place,
in the same house, we should not understand it better."

He still looked puzzled; he was half afraid she was laughing at him. "You think I am stupid?"
he said, gravely.

She denied it, and they walked on a little in silence. They were in the quieter part of the
town now and could talk undisturbed; after a little he spoke again, musingly.

"Often I wonder what you think of, you have such great, shining eyes, they eat up everything;
they see everything and through everything, I think. They sweep round the room, or the persons
or the place, and gather all--may I say it?--like some fine net--to me it seems they draw all
things into your brain, and there you weave them and weave them into thoughts."

Julia swallowed a little exclamation, and by an effort contrived not to appear as surprised
as she was by this too discerning remark. She was so young that she did not before know that
children and child-like folk sometimes divine by instinct the same conclusions that very clever
people arrive at by much reasoning and observation. She felt decidedly uncomfortable at this
explanation of Joost's frequent contemplations of herself.

"You seem to think me very clever," she said.

"Of course," he answered simply, "you are clever."

"No, I am not," she returned; "ask your mother; ask Denah Snieder; they do not think me clever.
What can I do, except cook? Oh, yes, and speak a few foreign language as you can yourself?
I cannot paint, or draw, or sing; I do not understand music; why, when you play Bach, I wish
to go out of the room."

"That is true," he admitted; "I have felt it."

Julia bit her lip; she had never before expressed her opinion of Bach, and she did not feel
in the least gratified that he had found it out for himself.

"It is absurd to call me clever," she said. "I have little learning and no accomplishments.
I cannot even get on with the crochet work Denah showed me, and I do not know how to make flowers
of paper."

"But why should one make flowers of paper?" he asked, in his serious way. "They are not at
all beautiful."

"Denah makes them beautifully," she answered.

The argument did not seem to carry weight, but Julia advanced no other; she thought silence
the wisest course. They had almost reached home now; a little before they came to the gate,
Joost opened the subject of herself again. "I think sometimes you must make fun of us; do you
not sometimes in your heart laugh just a little bit?"

"I laugh at everything sometimes," she said; "myself most of all. Do you never laugh at yourself?
I expect not; you are very serious. I will tell you what it is like: a little goblin comes
out of your head and stands in front of you; the goblin is you, a sort of you; the other part,
the part people know, sits opposite, and the goblin laughs at it because it sees how ridiculous
the other is, how grotesque and how futile. My goblin came out into my room last night and
laughed and laughed; you would almost have heard him if you had been there."

They had reached the gate now, and as Joost held it open for her to pass through, she saw that
he had blushed to the ears at the lightly spoken words--if he had been in her room last night;
the impropriety of them to him was evident. For a moment she blushed, too, then she recovered
herself and grew impatient with one so artificial--and yet so simple, so self-conscious--and
yet so unconscious, so desperately stupid--and yet so uncomfortably clear-sighted.

CHAPTER V

THE EXCURSION

The following Monday was fine and warm, and since the whole previous week had also been fine
and warm, Mevrouw thought they might venture to make the talked-of excursion. Messages were
accordingly sent to the Snieders, and from the Snieders back again, and after a wonderful amount
of talk and arranging, everything was settled. Dinner was a little early that day, and a little
hurried, though, since the carriage was not to come till after five o'clock, there was perhaps
not much need for that. However, it is not every day in the week one makes an excursion, so
naturally things cannot be expected to go quite as usual when such an event occurs.

The carriage came, Mevrouw had been waiting ten minutes, and three times been to see why Julia
was not waiting with her. At the sound of wheels Julia came out; she had just finished washing
the glasses (which she had been told not to touch, as there was certainly no time). She was
quite ready, but Mevrouw at that moment discovered that she had the wrong sunshade. Julia fetched
the right one and carried it out for the old lady; also an umbrella with a bow on the handle,
a mackintosh, a shawl, and a large basket. Mijnheer came from the office with his spectacles
pushed up on his forehead, and a minute later Joost also came to say good-bye; even the maidservant
came from the kitchen to see them start.

The carriage drew up; it was a strange-looking vehicle, in shape something between a hearse
and an ark on wheels, but with the greater part of the sides open to the air. Vrouw Snieder
and her two daughters were already within, with their bow-trimmed umbrellas, sunshades, mackintoshes,
shawls and basket. There was necessarily a good deal of greeting; Mijnheer and Joost shook
hands with all the three ladies, and inquired after Herr Snieder, and received polite inquiries
in return. Then Denah insisted on getting out, so that Mevrouw should be better able to get
in; also to show that she was athletic and agile, like an English girl, and thought nothing
of getting in and out of a high carriage. Mevrouw kissed her husband and son, twice each, very
loud, called a good-bye to the servant, and got in. Julia shook hands, said good-bye, and also
got in. Denah watched her, and observed the shape of her feet and ankles jealously. She glanced
sharply at Joost, but he was not guilty of such indecorum as even thinking about any girl's
legs, so, having said her good-bye, she got in reassured. Finally they drove away amid wishes
for a safe drive and a pleasant excursion.

Of course there was a little settling to do inside the carriage, the wraps and baskets to be
disposed of, and each person to be assured that the others had enough room, and just the place
they preferred to any other. By the time that was done they stopped again at the house of Mijnheer's
head clerk; here they were to take up two children, girls of fourteen and fifteen, who had
been invited to come with the party. The carriage was not kept waiting, the children were out
before it had fairly stopped; they were flaxenly fair girls, wearing little blue earrings,
Sunday hats, and cotton gloves of course--all the party wore cotton gloves; it was, Julia judged,
part of the excursion outfit.

Now they were really off, driving out beyond the outskirts of the town; along flat roads where
the wheels sank noiselessly into the soft sand, and the horses' feet clattered on the narrow
brick track in the centre. For a time they followed the canal closely, but soon they left it,
and saw in the distance nothing but its high green banks, with the brown sails of boats showing
above, and looking as if they were a good deal higher than the carriage road. They passed small
fields, subdivided into yet smaller patches, and all very highly cultivated. And small black
and white houses, and small black and white cows, and black and white goats, and dogs, and
even cats of the same combination of colour. Everything was rather small, but everywhere very
tidy; nothing out of its place or wasted, and nobody hurrying or idling; all were busy, with
a small bustling business, as unlike aggressive English idleness as it was unlike the deceptive,
leisurely power of English work.

Denah and Anna looked out of either side of the carriage, and pointed out things to Julia and
the two little girls. Here it was what they called a country seat, a sort of castellated variety
of overgrown chalêt, surrounded by a wonderful garden of blazing flower-beds and emerald lawns,
all set round with rows and rows of plants in bright red pots. Or there it was a cemetery,
where the peaceful aspect made Denah sentimental, and the beauty of the trees drew Anna's praise.
The two elder ladies paid less attention to what they passed; they contented themselves with
leaning back and saying how beautiful the air was, and how refreshing the country. The girls
said that as well; they all agreed six times within the hour that it was a delightful expedition,
and they enjoying it much.

In time they came to the wood. An unpaved road ran through it of soft, deep sand, which deadened
every sound; on either hand the trees rose, pines and larch and beech principally, with a few
large-leafed shivering poplars here and there. There was no undergrowth, and few bird songs,
only the dim wood aisles stretching away, quiet and green. Suddenly it seemed to Julia that
the world's horizon had been stretched, the little neatness, the clean, trim brightness, the
bustling, industrious toy world was gone; in its place was the twilight of the trees, the silence,
the repose, the haunting, indefinable sense of home which is only to be found in these cathedrals
of Nature's making.

"Ah, the wood!" Denah said, with a profound sigh. "The beautiful wood! Miss Julia, do you not
love it?"

Julia did not assent, but Denah went on quite satisfied, "You cannot love it as I do; I think
I am a child of Nature, nothing would please me more than always to live here."

"You would have to go into the town sometimes," Julia said, "to buy gloves; the ones you have
would not last for ever."

Denah looked a little puzzled by the difficulty; she had not apparently thought out the details
of life in a natural state; but before she could come to any conclusion one of the little girls
cried, "Music--I hear music!"

All the ladies said "Delicious!" together, and "How beautiful!" and Denah, content to ignore
Nature, added rapturously, "Music in the wood! Ah, exquisite! two beauties together!"

Julia echoed the remark, though the music was that of a piano-organ. The horizon had drawn
in again, and the prospect narrowed; the silence was full of noises now, voices and laughter,
amidst which the organ notes did not seem out of place. And near at hand under the trees there
were tables spread and people having tea, enjoying themselves in a simple-hearted, noisy fashion,
in no way suggestive of cathedral twilight.

The carriage was put up, the tea ordered, and in a little they, too, were sitting at one of
the square tables. Each lady was provided with a high wooden chair, and a little wooden box
footstool. A kettle on a hot potful of smouldering wood ashes was set on the table; cups and
saucers and goats' milk were also supplied to them, and opaque beet-root sugar. The food they
had brought in their baskets, big new broodje split in half, buttered and put together again
with a slither of Dutch cheese between. These and, to wind up with, some thin sweet biscuits
carried in a papier-maché box, and handed out singly by Vrouw Van Heigen, who had brought them
as a surprise and a treat.

"Do they have such picnics as this in England?" Anna asked, as she gathered up the crumbs of
her biscuit.

"I have never been to one," Julia answered, and inwardly she thought of her mother and Violet
driving in a wheeled ark to the wood, there to sit at little wooden tables and stretch their
mouths in the public eye.

"Ah!" said Vrouw Snieder; "then it is all the more of a pleasure and a novelty to you."

Julia said it was, and soon afterwards they rose from the table to walk in the wood. The two
elder ladies did not get far, and before long came back to sit on their wooden chairs again.
The girls went some little distance, all keeping together, and being careful not to wander
out of sight and sound of the other picnic parties. Once when they came to the extreme limit
of their walk, Julia half-hesitated. She looked into the quiet green distance. It would be
easy to leave them, to give them the slip; she could walk at double their pace with half their
exertion, she could lose herself among the trees while they were wondering why she had gone,
and making up their minds to follow her; and, most important of all, when she came back she
could explain everything quite easily, so that they would not think it in the least strange--an
accident, a missing of the way, anything. Should she do it--should she? The wild creature that
had lived half-smothered within her for all the twenty years of her life fluttered and stirred.
It had stirred before, rebelling against the shams of the Marbridge life, as it rebelled against
the restrictions of the present; it had never had scope or found vent; still, for all that
it was not dead; possibly, even, it was growing stronger; it called her now to run away. But
she did not do it; advisability, the Polkingtons' patron saint, suggested to her that one does
not learn to shine in the caged life by allowing oneself the luxury of occasional escape.

She turned her back on the green distance. "Shall we not go back to where the music is playing?"
she said.

They went, walking with their arms entwined as other girls were doing, Julia between the broad,
white-skinned sisters, like a rapier between cushions. The two younger girls ran on in front.
"There is Mevrouw," they cried. "She is calling us. The carriage is ready, too; oh, do you
think it is already time to go?"

It seemed as if it really was the case. Vrouw Snieder stood clapping her hands and beckoning
to them, and the coachman appeared impatient to be off. With reluctance, and many times repeated
regrets, they collected their wraps and baskets, and got into the carriage.

"Good-bye, beautiful wood, good-bye!" Denah said, leaning far out as they started. "Oh, if
one could but remain here till the moon rose!"

"It would be very damp," her mother observed. "The dew would fall."

To which incontestable remark Denah made no reply.

The return journey was much like the drive there, with one exception; they passed one object
of interest they had not seen before. It was when they were nearing the outskirts of the town
that Anna exclaimed, "An Englishman! Look, look, Miss Julia, a compatriot of yours!"

The season was full early for tourists, and at no time did the place attract many. Englishmen
who came now probably came on business which was unlikely to bring them out to these quiet,
flat fields. But Anna and Denah, who joined her in a much more demonstrative look-out than
Marbridge would have considered well-bred, were insistent on the nationality.

"He walks like an Englishman," Anna said, "as if all the world belonged to him."

"And looks like one," Denah added; "he has no moustache, and wears a glass in his eye, look,
Miss Julia."

Julia looked, then drew back rather quickly. They were right, it was an Englishman; it was
of all men Rawson-Clew.

What was he doing here? By what extraordinary chance he came to be in this unlikely place she
could not think. She was very glad that Mevrouw felt the air chilly, and so had had the leather
flaps pulled over part of the open sides of the carriage; this and the eager sisters screened
her so well that it was unlikely he could see her.

"Is he not an Englishman?" Anna asked.

"Yes," she answered; "one could not mistake him for anything else."

"I wonder if he recognised you as a country-woman," Anna speculated; and Julia said she did
not consider herself typically English in appearance.

The sisters talked for the rest of the way of the Englishman; of his air and bearing, and the
fact, of which they declared themselves convinced, that he was a person of distinction.

But it was not till the drive was over, and the party had separated, that Denah was able to
say what was burning on her tongue. They had left the clerk's children at their house, said
good-bye to Vrouw Van Heigen and Julia, and were within their own home at last; the girls went
up to their bedroom, and Denah carefully fastened the door, then she said mysteriously, "Miss
Julia knows that Englishman."

Anna jumped at the intelligence, and still more at the tone. "Did she tell you?" she asked.

"No," Denah replied with some scorn; "she would not tell any one, she wishes it concealed;
she thinks it is so, but I saw it."

The tone and manner suggested many things, but Anna was a terribly matter-of-fact person, to
whom suggestions were nothing. "Why should she wish it concealed?" she inquired.

"I do not know why," Denah answered; "that remains to be seen. As for how I know it, I saw
it in her face; when she looked at him her lips became set, and her eyes--she looked--" She
hesitated for a word, and dropped to the homely, "She looked as if she would bite with annoyance
that he should be here. The expression was gone in a moment; she spoke with an ease and naturalness
that was astonishing, even disgusting; but it had been there. I do not trust her."

The last was said with great seriousness, and for a little Anna was impressed. But not for
long, she could not accept such evidence as this; in her opinion it was "fancy."

"You read too many romances," she said; "your head is full of such things. I do not believe
Miss Julia knew the Englishman, she would not have hidden from us her knowledge if she did;
it is not so easy to hide one's feelings in the flash of an eye, besides there was no reason.
Also"--this as an afterthought--"he was a man of good family; you could see at a glance that
he was of the aristocracy, while she is a paid companion to Vrouw Van Heigen; she could never
before have met him."

Denah, however, was not convinced; she only repeated darkly, "I mistrust her."

Julia, in the meantime, was busy with her household duties, talking over the excursion the
while with Mevrouw, and helping to detail it to Mijnheer. At last the table was ready for supper
and the coffee made. Mevrouw sat with her crochet, and Mijnheer opposite her with his paper.
It wanted more than a quarter of an hour to supper time, Julia had been too quick; still it
did not matter, the coffee would not hurt standing on the spirit-stove; it stood there half
the day. She had all this time to spare, but she did not fetch her crochet work; she went outside
to the veranda.

It was almost dark by this time, as dark as it ever got on these nights; the air was still
and warm. She opened the glass door and went out and sat down on the step. There was a smell
of water in the air, not unpleasant, but quite un-English, and mixed with it a faint smell
of flowers, the late blooming bulbs have little scent on the whole; it was more the heavy dew
than the flowers themselves which one could smell. It was very quiet out here; the town, at
no time noisy, was some distance away--so quiet that Julia could hear the ticking of Mr. Gillat's
large watch in her belt. She pushed it further down; she did not want to hear it.

She propped her elbows on her knees, and her chin on her hands. She wished she had not seen
Rawson-Clew that day; she wished she was not here, she wished there was no such thing as a
blue daffodil; she was vaguely angry and dissatisfied, but not willing to face things. It was
unlikely that the man had seen her, unlikely that she would see him again; but he was incongruous
in this simple life, and he brought forcibly home the incongruity of herself and her errand.
She had come for the blue daffodil, it was no good pretending she had not; she told herself
angrily, as she had told herself when she had first looked at Johnny's yellow-faced watch,
that she was going to get it in some way that was justifiable. Only it was not so easy to believe
that now she knew more about it and the Van Heigens. But she must have it, that was the argument
she fell back on, the necessity was so great that she was justified (the Polkingtons had always
found necessity a justification for doing things that could be anyhow made to square with their
position).

She wished she had not been for the excursion to-day, that she lived less really in their simple,
sincere life. She wished from her heart that the Van Heigens had been different sort of people--almost
any other sort, then she would not have had these tiresome feelings--Johnny and Johnny's watch,
Joost Van Heigen--there was something about them all that was hatefully embarrassing. No self-respecting
thief robbed a child; even the most apathetic conscience revolted at such an idea. No gentleman
worthy of the name attacked an unarmed man, the preparedness of the parties made all the difference
between murder and fair fight. Of course, in the abstract, stealing was stealing under all
conditions, and killing killing, and both open to condemnation; but in the concrete, in fact,
the equality of the two persons made all the difference, at least to honour.

Julia moved uneasily and looked, without seeing, across the dark garden. The monotonous sound
of voices floated out indistinctly; the old pair in the sitting-room were talking in the lamplight,
Mevrouw going over once again the little incidents of the day. Joost was in the drawing-room
at the other end of the house; he had been playing some of his favourite composer; he had stopped
now, and was doubtless sorting his music and putting it away, each piece four-square and absolutely
neat. Day by day, and year by year, they lived this quiet life, with a drive for a rare holiday
treat, and the discovery of a new flower as the goal of all hope and ambition. Things did not
happen to them, bad things that needed doubtful remedies; they had never had to scratch for
their living, and show one face outwards and another in. They, none of them, ever wanted to
do things; they had not the courage. How much of virtue was lack of courage and a desire not
to be remarkable?

Julia asked herself the question defiantly, and did not hear Joost come out of the house. He
was carrying a lantern, and was going to make his nightly round of the barns. She did not hear
his step, and so started when she saw the light swing across the ground at her feet.

He was quite as startled to see her as she was to see him, but his greeting was a very usual
question in Holland, "Will you not catch cold?"

She shook her head, and he asked, "What are you doing? Thinking? Weaving in your head all that
you have seen and heard to-day?"

"No," she answered; "I was thinking about courage."

"Courage?" he repeated, puzzled.

"Yes, it is very different in different places; some people are afraid to tell the truth, so
they lie; and some are afraid to be dishonest, so they are honest; I believe it depends partly
on fashion."

Joost set down the lantern in sheer surprise. "Such things cannot depend on fashion," he said
severely.

"I am not so sure," Julia answered; "lots of things you would not expect depend on it. I know
people who sometimes go without the food they want so that they can buy expensive cakes to
show off when their acquaintances come to tea--that's silly, isn't it? Then I know other people
who blush if a pair of breeches, or something equally inoffensive, are mentioned; that seems
equally silly. One lot of people is ashamed to be seen eating bread-and-cheese suppers, another
lot is ashamed to be seen walking off the side-walk, and with no gloves on. One would hardly
expect in, yet I almost believe these silly little things somehow make a difference to what
the people think right and wrong."

Joost regarded her doubtfully, though he could only see the outline of her face. "Are you making
fun?" he asked. "I do not know when you are making fun; I think you must be now. Are you speaking
of us?"

"I never felt less like making fun in my life," Julia answered ignoring the last question.
Something in her tone struck Joost as sad, and he forgot his question in sympathy.

"I am sorry," he said; "you are unhappy, and I have intruded upon you; will you forgive me?
You are thinking of your home, no doubt; you have not had a letter from England for a long time."

Julia wished he did not notice so many things. "I did not expect a letter," she said; "my eldest
sister was married last week, there would be no time to write to me till everything was over;
most likely I shall hear to-morrow."

"Is your sister married?" he asked; "and you were not able to be present?"

"It is too far to go home from here," Julia said; then asked, "Were you going to the barns?"

"Yes," he answered, suddenly reminded of the fact. Then seeing she did not resume her seat
on the steps, he ventured diffidently, "Will you come too?"

She assented, and they started together in silence, Joost thinking her homesick, not knowing
quite what to say. When they came to the first of the dark buildings they went in, and he swung
the lantern round so that their shadows danced fantastically. Then he tried various doors,
and glanced up the wall-ladder to the square opening which led to the floor above. There was
no need to examine the place minutely, it was all quiet and dark; if there had been any one
about they would certainly have heard, and if there had been anything smouldering--a danger
more to be feared, seeing that the men smoked everywhere--it could have been smelt in the dry air.

"I like these barns," Julia said, looking round: "they are so big and quiet and orderly, somehow
so respectable."

"Respectable!" he repeated, as if he did not approve of the word. "Is that what you like? The
respectable?"

"Yes, in its place; and its place is here."

"You think us respectable?"

"Well, are you not? I think you are the most respectable people in the world."

She led the way through to the next barn as she spoke. "You are going here, too, I suppose?"
she said.

"I will just look round," he answered.

They went on together until they came to the last barn of all; while they paused there a moment
they heard a rustling and movement in the dark, far corner. Joost started violently, then he
said, "It is a rat, you must not be afraid; it will not run this way."

"I am not afraid," Julia said with amusement. "Do you think I am afraid of rats?"

"Girls often are."

"Well, I am not," and it was clear from her manner that she spoke the truth.

"Would you be afraid to come out here alone?" he asked curiously.

"No," she said; "any night that you like I will come here alone, go through the barns and fasten
the doors."

"I do not believe there are many girls who would do that," he said; he was thinking of Denah
and Anna.

Julia told him there were plenty who would. As they came back, stopping to fasten each door
after them, he remarked, "I think girls are usually brought up with too much protection; I
mean girls of our class, they are too much shielded; one has them for the house only; if they
were flowers I would call them stove-plants."

Julia laughed. "You believe in the emancipation of women then?" she said; "you would rather
a woman could take care of herself, and not be afraid, than be womanly?"

"No," he answered; "I would like them to be both, as you are."

They had come outside now; she was standing in the misty moon-light, while he stayed to fasten
the last door.

"I?" she said; "you seem to think me a paragon--clever, brave, womanly. Do you know what I
really am? I am bad; by a long way the wickedest person you have known."

But he did not believe her, which was perhaps not altogether surprising.

CHAPTER VI

DEBTOR AND CREDITOR

Violet Polkington was married, and, as a consequence, the financial affairs of the family were
in a state that can only be described as wonderful. They were intricately involved, of course,
and there was no chance of their being clear again for a year at least; but, also, there was
no chance of them being found out, appearances were better than ever.

Mr. Frazer had been given a small living, whether by the deserved kindness of fortune, or by
reason of his own efforts, or the Polkingtons, is not known. Anyhow he had it, and he and Violet
were married in June with all necessary éclat. Local papers described the event in glowing
terms, appreciative friends said it was the prettiest wedding in years, and in due time Chèrie
wrote and told Julia about it. The Captain also wrote; his point of view was rather different,
but his letter filled up gaps in Chèrie's information, and Julia's own past experience filled
up the remaining gaps in both.

The letters came on Tuesday, as Julia expected, a little before dinner time; she was still
reading them when Mijnheer and his son came in from the office. Joost smiled sympathetically
when he saw she had them, glad on her account; and she, almost unconsciously, crumpled together
the sheets that lay on the table beside her, as if she were afraid they would betray their
contents to him.

"You have good news from home?" said Mijnheer; "your parents are well?"

"Quite well, thank you," Julia answered. She had just come to the place in her father's letter
where he regretted that such very light refreshments were the fashion at wedding receptions.
"It is, of course, as your mother says, less expensive, but at such a time who would spare
expense--if it were the fashion? I assure you I had literally nothing to eat at the time, or
afterwards; your mother thinking it advisable as soon as we were alone, to put away the cakes
for future visitors. At such a time, when a man's feelings are nearly touched, he needs support;
I did not have it, and I cannot say that I have felt myself since."

Julia read to the end of the letter; Mijnheer had by this time taken up a paper, but Joost
watched her as she folded the sheets. He did not speak, it seemed he would not intrude upon
her; there was something dog-like in this sympathy with what was not understood. She felt vaguely
uncomfortable by reason of it, and spoke to break the spell. "Everything went off very well,"
she said.

The words were for him alone, since Mijnheer was now reading, and also knew nothing of the
subject. The smile brightened on his face. "Did it?" he answered. "I am very glad. They must
have missed you much, and thought often of you."

Julia nodded. Chèrie had said. "I must say I think it is a pity you were not here; it is important
to have some one with a head in the background; mother and I had to be the fore, so of course
we could not do it; if you had been here several things would have gone better, and some waste
have been saved."

This remark Julia did not communicate to Joost; she put the letter in her pocket, and went
to fetch the dinner. After dinner she was to go on an errand for Mevrouw. It would take a long
time, all the evening in fact, for it was to an old relative who lived in a village about three
miles from the town. Walking was the only way of getting to the place, except twice a week
when a little cargo boat went down the canal, and took some hours about it. This was neither
the day nor the time for the boat, Julia would have to walk; but, as she assured Mevrouw, she
much preferred it. Accordingly, as soon as dinner was finished, she was given a great many
messages, mostly of a condoling nature, for the old lady was ill in bed, some strengthening
soup, and a little bottle of the peach-brandy. With these things packed in a substantial marketing
basket, she started.

Through the town she went with that easy step and indifference to the presence of other people
that Denah so criticised, faster and faster her spirits rising. Once or twice she looked in
at the low windows that stood open on the shady side of the street; there she saw the heads
of families smoking their after-dinner pipes, while their wives and daughters sat crocheting
and watching the passersby. There were chairs with crimson velvet seats in most of the rooms,
and funny little cabinet, or side-board things of bright red mahogany, with modern Delft vases,
very blue indeed, upon them. And always there was a certain snugness, perhaps even smugness,
about the rooms. At least, so it seemed to her as she looked in, almost insolently pleased
to be outside, to be free and alone.

In time she came to the outskirts of the town, the canal lay on her right, and on her left,
flat green fields, cut up by innumerable ditches, and set with frequent windmills, all black
and white, and mostly used for maintaining the water level. There were people busy in the fields,
but to Julia they only gave the idea of ants, and did not intrude upon her mind in the least.
It was all very quiet and green around, and quiet and blue above, except for the larks singing
rapturously. Certainly it was very good to be away from the Van Heigens, away from the ceaseless
little reiteration of Mevrouw's talk, from the minute, punctilious conventions, from Joost's
quiet gaze, from the proximity of the hateful, necessary blue daffodil. With a violent rebound
Julia shook off the feeling that had been growing on her of late, and was once more possibly
reckless, but certainly free, and no longer under the spell of her surroundings. Her young
blood coursed quickly, her eyes shone, the basket she carried grew light; she might have sung
as she went had not Nature, in withholding the ability, also kindly withheld the inclination.

Soon after leaving the town, a side road cut into the main one; a waggon was lumbering down
it at no great pace, but just before the branch road joined the main one the driver cracked
his whip loudly, so that his team of young horses started forward suddenly. Too suddenly for
the comprehension of some children who were playing in the road; for a second or more they
looked at the approaching waggon, then, when the necessity dawned upon them, they ran for safety,
one one way, one another, and the third, a baby boy, like a chicken, half across the way to
the right, then, after a scurry in the middle, back again to the left, under the horses' feet.

Julia shouted to him, but in the excitement of the moment she spoke English, and not Dutch,
though it hardly mattered, for the little boy was far too frightened to understand anything.
It certainly would have fared badly with him had she not followed up her cry by darting into
the road, seizing him by the shoulder, and flinging him with considerable force against the
green wayside bank. She was only just in time; as it was, the foremost horse struck her shoulder
and sent her rolling into the dust.

For an instant she lay there, perilously near the big grinding wheels; an almost imperceptible
space, yet somehow long enough for her to decide quite calmly that it was impossible to scramble
to her feet in time, so she had better draw her legs up and trust to the wheels missing her.
Then suddenly the wheels stopped, and some one who had seized the horses' heads addressed the
waggoner with the English idiom that is perhaps most widely known.

Julia heard "damned fool" in quite unemotional English, and almost simultaneously the guttural
shrieks of two peasant women who approached. She picked herself up, then moving two paces to
the side, stopped to put her hat straight with a calmness she did not quite feel. There was
a volley of exclamations from the peasant women, and "Are you hurt?" the man who had stopped
the horses asked her, speaking now in Dutch, though with an English accent.

"No," she answered, winking back the water which had come into her eyes with the force of the
blow, and she turned her back on him so that he should not see her do it.

"My good women," she said shortly to the peasants who, with upraised hands and many gestures,
stared at her, "there is nothing the matter, there is no reason why you should stand there
and look at me; I assure you no one has been hurt, and no one is going to be; you had much
better go on your way, as I shall do. Good-afternoon."

She walked a few paces down the road, not in the direction she intended to go certainly, but
she was too shaken for the moment to notice which way she took, and was only actuated by a
desire to get away and put an end to a scene. The movement and the words were not without effect;
the two women, a good deal astonished, obeyed automatically, and, picking up the burdens they
had set down, trudged on their way, not realising for some time how much offended they were
at the curt behaviour of the "mad English." The children by this time had ceased staring and
returned to their play; the waggoner, muttering some surly words, drove on. Julia sat on the
bank by the roadside, and tried to brush the dust from her dress. The Englishman, after making
some parting remarks to the waggoner, this time in Dutch, though still in the quiet, drawling
voice which was much at variance with the language, had gone to pick up the basket. She wished
she had thanked him for his timely assistance when she first scrambled to her feet, and gone
on at once, then she could have done this necessary sitting down when he was out of sight,
and come back for the stupid basket when she remembered it. But now she would have to thank
him formally, and perhaps explain things, and say expressly that she was not hurt, and this
while she was shaken and dusty. Mercifully he was English, and so would not expect much; she
looked at his back with satisfaction. He was scarcely as tall as many Hollanders, but very
differently built. To Julia, looking at him rather stupidly, his proportions, like his clothes,
appeared very nearly perfect after those she had been used to seeing lately. When he turned
and she saw for the first time his face, she was not very much surprised, though really it
was surprising that Rawson-Clew should still be hereabouts.

Their eyes met in mutual recognition. Afterwards she wondered why she did not pretend to be
Dutch, it ought to have been possible; he had only seen her once before, and her knowledge
of the language was much better than his. And even if he had not been deceived, he would have
been bound to acquiesce to her pretence, had she persisted in it. But she did not think of
it before their mutual recognition had made it too late.

"I hope you are not hurt," he said, as he crossed the road with the basket.

"No," she answered, "thanks to you--"

But he, evidently sharing her dislike for a fuss, was even more anxious than she not to dwell
on that, and dismissed the subject quickly. He began to wipe the bottom of the basket, from
which soup was dripping, talking the while of the carelessness of continental drivers and the
silliness of children of all nations, perhaps to give her time to recover.

She agreed with him, and then repeated her thanks.

He again set them aside. "It's nothing," he said; "I am glad to have had the opportunity, especially
since it also gives me the opportunity of offering you some apology for an unfortunate misunderstanding
which arose when last I saw you. You must feel that it needs an apology."

For a moment Julia's eyes showed her surprise; an apology was not what she expected, and, to
tell the truth, it did not altogether please her. She knew that she and her father had no right
to it while the money was unpaid.

"Please do not apologise," she said; "there is no need, I quite understand."

"I was labouring under a false impression," Rawson-Clew explained.

She nodded. "I know," she said, "but it is cleared up now; no one who spoke with my father
could possibly imagine he lived by his wits."

Which ambiguous remark may have been meant to apply to the Captain's mental outfit more than
his moral one. When Rawson-Clew knew Julia better he came to the conclusion it probably did,
at the time he thought it wise not to answer it.

"Here is your basket," he said; "I think it is clean now."

She made a movement to take it, but her arm was numb and powerless from the blow she had received;
it was the right shoulder which had been struck, and that hand was clearly useless for the
time being; with a wince of pain, she stretched out the left.

But he drew the basket back. "You are hurt," he said.

"No, I'm not, nothing to speak of; it only hurts me when I move that arm; I will carry the
basket with the other hand."

"How far have you to go?"

She told him to the village and back.

"You had better go straight home at once," he said.

"I can't do that," she answered. She did not explain that she did not want to, the pain in
her shoulder not being bad enough to make her want to give up this first hour of freedom. "My
shoulder does not hurt if I do not move it," she said; "I can carry the basket with the other
hand."

"Perhaps you will allow me to carry it for you?" he suggested; "I am going the same way."

"No, thank you," she returned. "Thanks very much for the offer, but there isn't any need; I
can manage quite well. I expect you will want to go faster than I do." She spoke decidedly,
and turned about quickly; as she did so, she caught sight of the bottle of peach-brandy in
the grass.

"Oh, there's the brandy," she exclaimed; "I mustn't go without that."

He fetched the fortunately unbroken bottle and put it in the basket, but he did not give it to her.

"I will carry this," he said; "if our pace does not agree, if you would prefer to walk more
slowly, I will wait for you at the beginning of the village."

Julia rose to her feet, there was no choice left to her but to acquiesce; from her heart she
wished he would leave the basket and go alone; she wished even that he would be rude to her,
she felt that then he would have been nearer her level and her father's. She resented alike
his presence and his courtesy, and she could not show either feeling, only accept what he offered
and walk by his side, just as if no money was owed, and no letter, condescendingly cancelling
the debt, had been written. She grew hot as she thought of that carefully worded letter, and
hot when she thought of her father's relief thereat. And here, here was the man who must have
dictated the letter, and probably paid the debt, behaving just as if such things never existed.
He was walking with her--she could not give him ten yards start and follow him into the village--and
making polite conversations about the weather, and the road, and the quantity of soup that
had been spilled.

She pulled herself together, and, feeling the situation to be beyond remedy, determined to
bear herself bravely, and carry it off with what credit she could. She glanced at the more
than half-empty soup can. "I am afraid you are right," she said; "there is a great deal of
it gone; still, that is not without advantage--I shall be sent to take some more in a day or two."

"You wish that?" he inquired.

"Yes," she answered, "I find the exercise beneficial; I have had too much pudding lately."

He looked politely surprised, and she went on to explain.

"It is very wholesome," she said, "but a bit stodgy; I think it is too really good to be taken
in such large quantities by any one like me. It is unbelievably good, it makes one perfectly
ashamed of oneself; and unbelievably narrow, it makes one long for bed-time."

She broke off to smile at his more genuine surprise, and her smile, like that of some other
people of little real beauty, was one of singular charm.

"Did you think I meant actual pudding?" she asked. "I didn't; I meant just the whole life here;
if you knew the people well, the real middle class ones, you would understand."

"I think I can understand without knowing them well," he said; "I fancy there is a good deal
of pudding about; in fact, I myself am feeling its rather oppressive influence."

"The town is paved with it," Julia declared. "I thought so this afternoon. I also thought,
though it is Tuesday, it was just like a spring Sunday; every day is like that."

Rawson-Clew suggested that many people appreciated spring Sundays.

"So do I," Julia agreed, "but in moderation; you can't do your washing on Sunday, nor your
harvesting in spring. An endless succession of spring Sundays is very awkward when you have
got--well, week-day work to do, don't you think so?"

He wondered a little what week-day work she had in her mind, but he did not ask.

"Are you living with a Dutch family?" he inquired.

She nodded. "As companion," she said; "sort of superior general servant."

"Indeed? Then it must have been you I saw yesterday; I thought so at the time; you were driving
with some Dutch ladies."

Julia was surprised that he had seen and recognised her. "We went for an excursion yesterday,"
she said; "they called it a picnic."

She told him about it, not omitting any of the points which had amused her. Could Joost have
heard her, he would have felt that his suspicion that she sometimes laughed at them more than
justified; but she did not give a thought to Joost, and probably would not have paused if she
had. She wanted to pass the present time, and she was rather reckless how, so long as Rawson-Clew
either talked himself, or seemed interested in what she said; also, it must be admitted, though
it was to this man, it was something of a treat to talk freely again. So she gave him the best
account she could, not only of the excursion, but of other things too. And if it was his attention
she wanted, she should have been satisfied, for she apparently had it, at first only the interest
of courtesy, afterwards something more; it even seemed, before the end, as if she puzzled him
a little, in spite of his years and experience.

He found himself mentally contrasting the life at the Van Heigens', as she described it, with
that which he had imagined her to have led at Marbridge, and, now that he talked to her, he
could not find her exact place in either.

"You must find Dutch conventionality rather trying," he said at last.

"I am not used to it yet," she answered; "when I am it will be no worse than the conventionality
at home."

He felt he was wrong in one of his surmises; clearly she was not really Bohemian. "Surely,"
he said, "you have not found these absurd rules and restrictions in England?"

"Not the same ones; we study appearances one way, and they do another; but it comes to the
same thing, so far as I am concerned. One day I hope to be able to give it up and retire; when
I do I shall wear corduroy breeches and if I happen to be in the kitchen eating onions when
people come to see me, I shall call them in and offer them a share."

"Rather an uncomfortable ambition, isn't that?" he inquired. "I am afraid you will have to
wait some time for its fulfilment, especially the corduroy. I doubt if you will achieve that
this side the grave, though you might perhaps make a provision in your will to be buried in it."

Julia laughed a little. "You think my family would object? They would; but, you see, I should
be retiring from them as well as from the world, the corduroy might be part of my bulwarks."

"I don't think you could afford it even for that; do you think women ever can afford that kind
of disregard for appearances?"

"Plain ones can," she said; "it is the only compensation they have for being plain; not much,
certainly, seeing what they lose, but they have it. When you can never look more than indifferent,
it does not matter how much less you look."

"That is a rather unusual idea," he remarked; "it appears sound in theory, but in practice--"

"Sounder still," she answered him.

He laughed. "I'm afraid you won't make many converts here," he said, "where nearly every woman
is plain, and according to your experience, every one, men and women too, think a great deal
of looks; at all events, correct ones."

"They do do that," she admitted; "they just worship propriety and the correct, and have the
greatest notion of the importance of their neighbours' eyes. It is a perfect treat to be out
alone, and not have to regard them--this is the first time I have been out alone since I have
been here."

"Rather hard; I thought every one had--er--time off."

"An evening out?" she suggested. "I believe the number of evenings out is regulated by the
number of applications for the post when vacant; cooks could get more evenings than housemaids,
and nursery governesses might naturally expect a minus number, if that were possible. There
would be lots of applications for my post, so I can't expect many evenings; however, I have
thought of a plan by which I can get out again and again!"

"What will you do?" he inquired.

"I shall get Denah--she is one of the girls who went for the excursion--to come and teach Mevrouw
a new crochet pattern after dinner of a day. It will take ages, Mevrouw learns very slowly,
and Denah will know better than to hurry matters; she admires Mijnheer Joost, the Van Heigens'
son, and she will be only too delighted to have an excuse to come to the house."

"And if she is there you will have a little leisure? Some one always has to be on duty? Is
that it?"

Julia laughed softly. "If she is there," she said, "she will want me out of the way, and I
am not satisfactorily out of the way when I am anywhere on the premises. Not that Mijnheer
Joost talks to me when I am there, or would talk to her if I were not; she just mistrusts every
unmarried female by instinct."

"A girl's instinct in such matters is not always wrong," Rawson-Clew observed.

But if he thought Julia had any mischievous propensities of that sort he was mistaken. "I should
not think of interfering in such an affair," she said; "why, it would be the most suitable
thing in the world, as suitable as it is for my handsome and able sister to marry the ambitious
and able nephew of a bishop; they are the two halves that make one whole. Denah and Joost would
live a perfectly ideal pudding life; he with his flowers--that is his work, you know; he cares
for nothing besides, really--and she with her housekeeping. He with a little music for relaxation,
she with her neighbours and accomplishments; it would be as neat and complete and suitable
as anything could be."

"And that commends it to you? I should have imagined that what was incongruous and odd pleased
you better."

"I like that too," she was obliged to admit, "though best when the people concerned don't see
the incongruity; but I don't really care either way, whether things are incongruous or suitable,
I enjoy both, and should never interfere so long as they don't upset my concerns and the end
in view."

He looked at her curiously; again it seemed he was at fault; she was not merely a wayward girl
in revolt against convention, saying what she deemed daring for the sake of saying it, and
in the effort to be original. She was not posing as a Bohemian any more than she was truly one.

"Have you usually an end in view?" he asked.

"Have not you?" she answered, turning on him for a moment eyes that Joost had described as
"eating up what they looked at." "Of course," she said, looking away again, "it is quite natural,
and very possible, that you are here for no purpose, and I am here for no purpose too; you
might quite well have come to this little town for amusement, and I have come for the money
I might earn as a companion. Or you might have drifted here by accident, as I might, without
any special reason--" She stopped as she spoke; they were fast approaching the first house
of the village now, and she held out her hand for the basket. "I will take it," she said; "I
have a very short distance to go; thank you so much."

"Let me carry it the rest of the way," he insisted; "I am going through the village; we may
as well go the rest of the way together, I want you to tell me--"

But Julia did not tell him anything, except that her way was by the footpath which turned off
to the right. "I could not think of troubling you further," she said. "Thank you."

She put her hand on the basket, so that he was obliged to yield it; then, with another word
of thanks, she said "good-evening," and started by the path.

For a moment he looked after her, annoyed and interested against his will; of course, she meant
nothing by her words about his purpose and her own, still it gave him food for reflection about
her, and the apparent incongruity of her present surroundings. On the whole, he was glad he
had met her, partly for the entertainment she had given, and partly for the opportunity he
had had to apologise.

An apology was due to her for the affair of last winter, he felt it; though, at the same time,
he could not hold himself much to blame in the matter. He had gone to Marbridge to see into
his young cousin's affairs at the request of the boy's widowed mother. The affairs, as might
have been expected, were in muddle enough, and the boy himself was incorrigibly silly and extravagant.
The whole business needed tact and patience, and in the end had not been very satisfactorily
arranged; during the process Captain Polkington's name had been mentioned more than once; he
figured, among other ways, of spending much and getting little in return. Somehow or other
Rawson-Clew had got the impression that the Captain was--well, perhaps pretty much what he
really had come to be; and if that was not quite what his wife had persuaded herself and half
Marbridge to think him, surely no one was to blame. The mistake made was about the Captain's
wife and daughters and position in the town; Rawson-Clew, in the first instance, never gave
them a thought; the Captain was a detached person in his mind, and, as such, a possible danger
to his cousin's loose cash. He went to No. 27 to talk plainly to the man, not to tell him he
was a shark and an adventurer; it was the Captain himself who translated and exaggerated thus;
not even to tell him what he thought, that he was a worthless old sponge, but to make it plain
that things would not go on as they had been doing. The girl's interruption had been annoying,
so ill-timed and out of place; she ought to have gone at once when he suggested it; she had
placed him and herself, too, in an embarrassing position; yet, at the same time--he saw it
now, though he did not earlier--there was something quaint in the way she had both metaphorically
and actually stood between him and her miserable old father. He had dictated the subsequent
letter to the Captain more on her account than anything else. He considered that by it he was
making her the amend honourable for the unfortunate interview of the afternoon, as well as
closing the incident. Of course, nothing real was forfeited by the letter, for under no circumstances
would the money have been repaid; he never had any delusion about that. From which it appears
that his opinion of the Captain had not changed.

As for his opinion of Julia, he had not one when he first saw her, except that she had no business
to be there; now, however, he felt some little interest in her. There was very little that
was interesting in this small Dutch town; it was a refreshing change, he admitted it to himself,
to see a girl here who put her clothes on properly; something of a change to meet one anywhere
who did not at once fall into one of the well-defined categories.

Much in this world has to be lain at the door of opportunity, and idleness in youth, and ennui
and boredom in middle ages. Rawson-Clew was in the borderland between the two, and did not
consider himself open to the temptations of either. He was not idle, he had things to do; and
he was not bored, he had things to think about; but not enough of either to prevent him from
having a wide margin.

When he met Julia again there was no reason for dropping the acquaintance renewed through necessity.
But also there was no opportunity, on that occasion, for pushing it further, even if there
had been inclination, for she was not alone.

It was on Saturday evening; she was walking down the same road, much about the same time, but
there was with her a tall, fair young man, with a long face and loose limbs. He carried, of
course, an umbrella--that was part of his full dress--and the basket--he walked between her
and the cart track. She bowed sedately to Rawson-Clew, and the young man, becoming tardily
aware of it, took off his hat, rather late, and with a sweeping foreign flourish. She wore
a pair of cotton gloves, and lifted her dress a few inches, and glanced shyly up at her escort
now and then as he talked. They were speaking Dutch, and she was behaving Dutch, as plain and
demure a person as it was possible to imagine, until she looked back, then Rawson-Clew saw
a very devil of mockery and mischief flash up in her eyes. Only for a second; the expression
was gone before her head was turned again, and that was decorously soon. But it had been there;
it was like the momentary parting of the clouds on a grey day; it illumined her whole face--her
mind, too, perhaps--as the eerie, tricky gleam, which is gone before a man knows it, lights
up the level landscape, and transforms it to something new and strange.

Rawson-Clew walked on ahead of the pair; he had to outpace them, since he was bound the same
way, and could not walk with them. He was not sure that he was not rather sorry for Denah,
the Dutch girl; one who can laugh at herself as well as another, and all alone, too, is he
thought, rather apt to enjoy the incongruous more than the suitable.

CHAPTER VII

HOW JULIA DID NOT GET THE BLUE DAFFODIL

Vrouw Van Heigen was learning a new crochet pattern; one did it in thread of a Sèvres blue
shade; when several long strips were made, one sewed them together with pieces of black satin
between each two, and there was an antimacassar of severe but rich beauty. Denah explained
all this as she set Mevrouw to work on the pattern; it was very intricate, quite exciting,
because it was so difficult; the more excited the old lady became the more mistakes she made,
but it did not matter; Denah was patience itself, and did not seem to mind how much time she
gave. She came every day after dinner (that is to say, about six o'clock), and when she came
it was frequently found necessary that Julia should go to inquire after the invalid cousin.
Denah thought herself the deepest and most diplomatic young woman in Holland; she even found
it in her heart to pity Julia, the poor companion, who she used as a pawn in her romance. The
which, since it was transparently obvious to the pawn, gave her vast, though private, delight.

So Julia went almost daily down the long flat road to the village, and very often Rawson-Clew
had to go that way too; and when he did, his time of going being of necessity much the same
time as hers, he was almost bound to walk with her. There was but one way to the place; they
must either walk together in the middle of the road, or else separately, one side of it; and
seeing that they were of the same nationality, in a foreign land, and had some previous acquaintance,
it would have been nothing short of absurd to have done the latter. So as often as they met
they walked together and talked of many things, and in the course of time Rawson-Clew came
to find Julia's company a good deal more entertaining than his own; although she had read nothing
she ought to have read, seen nothing she ought to have seen, and occasionally both thought
and said things she certainly ought not, and was not even conventionally unconventional.

They usually parted at the footpath, which shortened her way a little, Rawson-Clew giving her
the basket there, and going down the road alone; in consequence of this it was some time before
she knew for certain where it was he went, although she had early guessed. But one damp evening
she departed from her usual custom. It had been raining heavily all day, and although it had
cleared now, a thick mist lay over the wet fields.

"I shall have to go round by the road," she said, as she looked at the track.

Rawson-Clew agreed with her. "I am rather surprised that you came out at all this evening,"
he remarked. "I should have thought your careful friends would have been afraid of colds and
wet feet."

"Vrouw Van Heigen was," Julia answered, "but Denah and I were not. It is the last opportunity
we shall have for a little while; Joost goes to Germany on business to-morrow."

Rawson-Clew laughed. "Which means, I suppose," he said, "that she will neglect the crochet
work, and you will have to superintend it? Not very congenial to you, is it?"

"Good discipline," she told him.

"And for that reason to be welcomed? Really you deserve to succeed in whatever it is you are
attempting; you do not neglect details."

"Details are often important," she said; "stopping at home and doing crochet work while Joost
is in Germany, for instance, may help me a good deal."

The tone struck Rawson-Clew as implying more than the words said, but he did not ask for an
interpretation, and before long she had put a question to him. They were nearing a large house
that stood far back from the road on the left hand side. It was a big block of a place, greyish-white
in colour, and with more than half of its windows bricked up, indescribably gloomy. A long,
straight piece of water lay before it, stretching almost from the walls to the road, from which
it was separated by a low fence. Tall, thick trees grew in a close row on either side, narrowing
the prospect; a path ran up beside them on the one hand, the only way to the house, but in
the steamy mist which lay thick over everything this evening one could hardly see it, and it
looked as if the place were unapproachable from the front.

Julia glanced curiously towards the house; it was the only one of any size or possible interest
in the village; the only one, she had decided some time ago, that Rawson-Clew could have any
reason to visit.

As they approached the gate she ventured, "You go here, do you not?"

"Yes," he answered; "to Herr Van de Greutz."

"The cousin tells me he is a great chemist," Julia said.

"He is," Rawson-Clew agreed, "and one much absorbed in his work; it is impossible to see him
even on business except in the evening."

He paused by the gate as he spoke. "You have not much further to go, have you?" he said. "Will
you excuse me carrying your basket further? I am afraid I am rather behind my time."

Julia took the basket, assuring him she had no distance to carry it, but her eyes as she said
it twinkled with amusement; it was not really late, and she knew it.

"You are afraid of what will be said next," she thought as she looked back at the man, who
was already vanishing among the mists by the lake. And the thought pleased her somewhat, for
it suggested that Rawson-Clew had a respect for her acumen, and also that her private fancy--that
the business which brought him here was not of a kind for public discussion--was correct.

The cousin was better that evening; she even expressed hopes of living through the summer,
a thing she had not done for more than three days. Julia cheered and encouraged her in this
belief (which, indeed, there was every reason to think well founded) and gave her the messages
and dainties she had brought. After that they talked of the weather, which was bad; and the
neighbours, who, on the whole, were good. Julia knew most of them by name by this time--the
kind old Padre and his wife; the captain of the little cargo-boat, who drank a little, and
his generous wife, who talked a great deal; the fat woman who kept fowls, and the thin one
who sometimes stole the eggs. Julia had heard all about them before, but she heard over again,
and a little about the great chemist, Herr Van de Greutz, too.

This great man was naturally only a name to the invalid and her friends, but they had always
plenty to say about him. He was so distinguished that all the village felt proud to have him
live on their borders, and so disagreeable that they were decidedly in awe of him. Of his domestic
arrangements there was always talk; he lived in his great gloomy house with an old housekeeper,
whom Julia knew by sight, and a young cook, whom she did not; the former was a permanency,
the latter very much the reverse, it being difficult to find a cook equal to his demands who
would for any length of time endure the shortness of the housekeeper's temper, and the worse
one of her master. The domestic affairs of the chemist were a favourite subject of gossip,
but sometimes his attainments came in for mention too; they did to-night, the cousin being
in a garrulous mood. According to her, the great man had done everything in science worth mentioning,
and was not only the first chemist in Holland, but in all the world; he looked down on all
others, she said, regarding two Germans only as anything approaching his peers, all the English
and French being nothing to him. He had discovered a great many things, dyes, poisons, and
explosives; of the last he had recently perfected one which was twenty-two times stronger than
anything before known. Its nature was, of course, a secret, but it would eventually raise the
little army of Holland far above those of all other nations.

Julia listened, but especially to the last piece of information, which struck her as being
the one most likely to prove interesting. Soon after hearing it, however, she was obliged to
go. She made her farewells, and received messages of affection for Mevrouw, condolence for
Mijnheer--who had a cold--and good wishes for Joost's journey. Then she started homewards,
with a light basket and a busy mind.

It did not take her very long to decide that if there was any truth in this talk of Van de
Greutz's achievements, it must be the last mentioned--the explosive--which brought Rawson-Clew
here. Her judgment of men, for working purposes at least, was quick and fairly accurate, necessity
and experience had helped Nature to make it so. There were one or two things in connection
with Rawson-Clew which were very clear to her, he was not a scientist pure and simple; she
had never met one, but she knew he was not one, and so was not likely to be interested in the
great chemist for chemistry only. Nor was he a commercial man; neither his instincts nor his
abilities lay in that direction; it was not a new process, not a trade secret which brought
him here. Indeed, even though he might appreciate the value of such things, he would never
dream of trying to possess himself of them.

Julia understood perfectly the scale in which such acts stood to men like Rawson-Clew. To attempt
to master a man's discovery for one's own ends (as in a way she was doing) was impossible,
rank dishonesty, never even contemplated; to do it for business purposes--well, he might admit
it was sometimes necessary in business--commerce had its morality as law, and the army had
theirs--but it was not a thing he would ever do himself, he would not feel it exactly honourable.
But to attempt to gain a secret for national use was quite another thing, not only justifiable
but right, more especially if, as was probably the case, the attempt was in fulfilment of a
direct order. If after Herr Van de Greutz had a secret worth anything to England, it was that
which had brought Rawson-Clew to the little town. She was as sure of it as she was that it
was the blue daffodil which had brought her.

The hateful blue daffodil! Daily, to possess it grew more imperative. The intercourse with
this man, the curious seeming equality that was being established between them, cried aloud
for the paying of the debt, and the establishing of the reality of equality. She longed almost
passionately to be able to regard herself, to know that the man had reason to regard her, as
his equal. And yet to possess the thing seemed daily more difficult; more and more plainly
did she see that bribery, persuasion, cajolery were alike useless. The precious bulb could
be got in one way, and one only; it would never fall into her hands by skilful accident, or
nicely stimulated generosity; she must take it, or she must do without it. She must get it
for herself as deliberately as, in all probability, Rawson-Clew meant to get Herr Van de Greutz's
secret.

She raised her head and looked at the flat, wet landscape with unseeing eyes that were contemptuous.
How different two not dissimilar acts could be made to look! If she took the daffodil--and
she would have unique opportunity to try during the next two days--Rawson-Clew would regard
her as little better than a common thief; that is, if he happened to know about it. She winced
a little as she thought of the faint expression of surprise the knowledge would call up in
his impassive face and cold grey eyes. She could well imagine the slight difference in his
manner to her afterwards, scarcely noticeable to the casual observer, impossible to be overlooked
by her. She told herself she did not care what he thought; but she did. Pride was grasping
at a desired, but impossible, equality with this man, and here, were the means used only known,
was the nearest way to lose it. At times he had forgotten the gap of age and circumstances
between them--really forgotten it, she knew, not only ignored it in his well-bred way. He had
for a moment really regarded her as an equal; not, perhaps, as he might the women of his class,
rather the men of like experience and attainments with himself. That was not what she wanted,
but she recognised plainly that in grasping at a shadowy social feminine equality by paying
the debt, she might well lose this small substance of masculine equality, for there is no gulf
so unbridgeable between man and man as a different standard of honour.

But after all, she asked herself, what did it matter? He need not know; she would pay, fulfilling
her word, and proving her father an honest man (which he was not); the debtor could not know
how it was done. And if he did, what then? If she told him herself--he would know no other
way--she would do it deliberately with the set purpose of tarring him with the same brush;
she would show him how his attempt on Herr Van de Greutz might also be made to look. He would
not be convinced, of course, but at bottom the two things were so related that it would be
surprising if she did not get a few shafts home. He would not show the wounds then, but they
would be there; they would rankle; there would be some humiliation for him, too. A curious
light crept into her eyes at the thought; she was surer of being able to reduce him than of
exalting herself, and it is good, when circumstances prevent one from mounting, to drag a superior
to the level of one's humiliation. For a moment she understood something of the feelings of
the brute mob that throws mud.

By this time she had reached the town, though almost without knowing it; so deep was she in
her thoughts that she did not see Joost coming towards her. He had been to escort Denah, who
had thoughtfully forgotten to provide herself with a cloak; he was now coming back, carrying
the wrap his mother had lent her.

Julia started when she became aware of him just in front of her. She was not pleased to see
him; she had no room for him in her mind just then; he seemed incongruous and out of place.
She even looked at him a little suspiciously, as if she were afraid the fermenting thoughts
in her brain might make themselves felt by him.

He turned and walked beside her. "I have been to take home Miss Denah," he explained. "I saw
you a long way off, and thought perhaps I might escort you; but you are angry; I am sorry."

Julia could not forbear smiling at him. "I am not angry," she said, as she would to a child;
"I was only thinking."

"Of something unpleasant, then, that makes you angry?"

"No; of something that must have been enjoyable. I was thinking how, in the French Revolution,
the women of the people must have enjoyed throwing mud at the women of the aristocrats; how
they must have liked scratching the paint and the skin from their faces, and tearing their
hair down, and their clothes off."

Joost stared in amazement. "Do you call that not unpleasant?" he said. "It is the most grievous,
the most pitiable thing in all the world."

"For the aristocrats, yes," Julia agreed; "but for the others? Can you not imagine how they
must have revelled in it?"

Joost could not; he could not imagine anything violent or terrible, and Julia went on to ask
him another question, which, however, she answered herself.

"Do you know why the women of the people did it? It was not only because the others had food
and they had not; I think it was more because the aristocrats had a thousand other things that
they had not, and could never have--feelings, instincts, pleasures, traditions--which they
could not have had or enjoyed even if they had been put in palaces and dressed like queens.
It was the fact that they could never, never rise to them, that helped to make them so furious
to pull all down."

There was a sincerity of conviction in her tone, but Joost only said, "You cannot enjoy to
think of such things; it is horrible and pitiable to remember that human creatures became so
like beasts."

Julia's mood altered. "Pitiable, yes; perhaps you are right. After all, we are pitiful creatures,
and, under the thin veneer, like enough to the beasts." Then she changed the subject abruptly,
and began to talk of his flowers.

But he was not satisfied with the change; instinctively he felt she was talking to his level.
"Why do you always speak to me of bulbs and plants?" he said. "Do you think I am interested
in nothing else?"

"No," she said; "I speak of them because I am interested. Do you not believe me? It is quite
true; you yourself have said that I should make a good florist; already I have learnt a great
deal, although I have not been here long, and knew nothing before I came."

"That is so," he admitted; "you are very clever. Nevertheless, I do not think, if you were
alone now, you would be thinking of plants. You were not when I met you; it was the Revolution,
or, perhaps, human nature--you called it the Revolution in a parable, as you often do when
you speak your thoughts."

"Why do you trouble about my thoughts?" Julia said, impatiently. "How do you know what I think?"

"Perhaps I don't," he answered; "only sometimes it seems to me your voice tells me though your
words do not."

"My voice?"

"Yes; it is full of notes like a violin, and speaks more than words. I suppose all voices have
many notes really, but people do not often use them; they use only a few. You use many; that
is why I like to listen to you when you talk to my parents, or any one. It is like a master
playing on an instrument; you make simple words mean much, more than I understand sometimes;
you can caress and you can laugh with your voice; I have heard you do it when I have not been
able to understand what you caress, or at what you laugh, any more than an ignorant person
can understand what the violin says, although he may enjoy to hear it. To-night you do not
caress or laugh; there is something black in your thoughts."

"That is human nature, as you say," Julia said shortly, ignoring the comment on her voice.
"Human nature is a hateful, ugly thing; there is no use in thinking about it."

"It has certainly fallen," Joost allowed; "but I have sometimes thought perhaps, if it were
not so, it would be a little--a very little--monotonous."

"You would not find it dull," Julia told him. "I believe you would not have got on very well
in the Garden of Eden, except that, since all the herbs grew after their own kind, there would
be no opportunity to hybridise them."

But the mystery of production and generation, even in the vegetable world, was not a subject
that modesty permitted Joost to discuss with a girl. His manner showed it, to her impatient
annoyance, as he hastily introduced another aspect of man's first estate. "If we were not fallen,"
he added, "we should have no opportunity to rise. That, indeed, would be a loss; is it not
the struggle which makes the grand and fine characters which we admire?"

"I don't admire them," Julia returned; "I admire the people who are born good, because they
are a miracle."

He stopped to unfasten the gate; it did not occur to him that she was thinking of himself.

"I cannot agree with you," he said, as they went up the drive together. "Rather, I admire those
who have fought temptation, who are strong, who know and understand and have conquered; they
inspire me to try and follow. What inspiration is there in the other? Consider Miss Denah,
for an example; she has perhaps never wanted to do more wrong than to take her mother's prunes,
but is there inspiration in her? She is as soft and as kind as a feather pillow, and as inspiring.
But you--you told me once you were bad; I did not believe you; I did not understand, but now
I know your meaning. You have it in your power to be bad or to be good; you know which is which,
for you have seen badness, and know it as men who live see it. You have fought with it and
conquered; you have struggled, you do struggle, you have strength in you. That is why you are
like a lantern that is sometimes bright and sometimes dim, but always a beacon."

"I am nothing of the sort," Julia said sharply. They were in the dense shadow of the trees,
so he could not see her face, but her voice sounded strange to him. "You do not know what you
are talking about," she said; "hardly in my life have I asked myself if a thing is right or
wrong--do you understand me? Right and wrong are not things I think about."

"It is quite likely," he said, serenely; "different persons have different names for the same
things, as you have once said; one calls it 'honourable' and 'dishonourable,' and another 'right'
and 'wrong,' and another 'wise' and 'unwise.' But it is always the same thing; it means to
choose the more difficult path that leads to the greater end, and leave the other way to the
lesser and smaller souls."

Julia caught her breath with a little gasping choke. Joost turned and looked at her, puzzled
at last; but though they had now reached the house, and the lamplight shone on her, he could
make out nothing; she brushed past him and went in quickly.

The next day Joost started for Germany. It rained more or less all day, and Julia did not go
out, except for half-an-hour during the morning, when she was obliged to go marketing. She
met Denah bound on the same errand, and heard from her, what she knew already, that she would
not be able to come and superintend the crochet that day. And being in a black and reckless
mood, she had the effrontery to laugh a silent, comprehending little laugh in the face of the
Dutch girl's elaborate explanations. Denah was a good deal annoyed, and, though her self-esteem
did not allow her to realise the full meaning of the offence, she did not forget it.

Julia went home with her purchases, and spent the rest of the day in the usual small occupations.
It was an interminably long day she found. She contrived to hide her feelings, however, and
behaved beautifully, giving the suitable attention and suitable answers to all Mevrouw's little
remarks about the weather, and Joost's wet journey (though, since he was in the train, Julia
could not see that the wet mattered to him), and about Mijnheer's cold, which was very bad indeed.

The day wore on. Julia missed Joost's presence at meals; they were not in the habit of talking
much to each other at such times, it is true, but she always knew when she talked to his parents
that he was listening, and putting another and fuller interpretation on her words. That was
stimulating and pleasant too; it was a new form of intercourse, and she did not pretend she
did not enjoy it for itself, as well as for the opportunity it gave her of probing his mind
and trying different ideas on him.

At last dinner was over, and tea; the tea things were washed, and the long-neglected fancy
work brought out. A clock in the passage struck the hour when, of late, after an exhilirating
verbal skirmish with the anxious Denah, she had set out for the village and Rawson-Clew.

She did not pretend to herself that she did not enjoy that too, she did immensely; there was
a breath from the outside world in it; there was sometimes the inspiring clash of wits, of
steel on steel, always the charm of educated intercourse and quick comprehension. To-night
there was nothing; no exercise to stir the blood, no solitude to stimulate the imagination,
no effort of talk or understanding to rouse the mind. Nothing but to sit at work, giving one-eighth
of attention to talk with Mevrouw--more was not needed, and the rest to the blue daffodils
that lay securely locked up in a place only too well known.

Evening darkened, grey and dripping, to-night, supper-getting time came, and the hour for locking
up the barns. Mijnheer, snuffling and wheezing a good deal, put on a coat, a mackintosh, a
comforter, a pair of boots and a pair of galoshes; took an umbrella, the lantern, a great bunch
of keys, and went out. Julia watched him go, and said nothing; she had been the rounds a good
many times with Joost now; the family had talked about it more than once, and about her bravery
with regard to rats and robbers. Neither of the old people would have been surprised if she
had volunteered to go in place of Mijnheer, even if his cold had not offered a reason for such
a thing. But she did not do it; he went alone, and the blue daffodil bulbs lay snug in their
locked place.

The next day it still rained, but a good deal harder. There was a sudden drop in the temperature,
too, such as one often finds in an English summer. The Van Heigens did not have a fire on that
account, their stoves always kept a four months' sabbath; the advent of a snow-storm in July
would not have been allowed to break it. Mijnheer's cold was decidedly worse; towards evening
it grew very bad. He came in early from the office, and sat and shivered in the sitting-room
with Julia and his wife, who was continuing the crochet unaided, and so laying up much future
work for Denah. At last it was considered dark enough for the lamp to be lighted. Julia got
up and lit it, and drew the blind, shutting out the grey sheet of the canal and the slanting rain.

"Dear me," Mevrouw said once again, "how bad the rain must be for Joost!"

Julia agreed, but reminded her--also once again--that it was possibly not raining in Germany.

Mijnheer looked up from his paper to remark that the weather was very bad for the crops.

"It is bad for every one," his wife rejoined; "but worse of all for you. You should be in bed.
Indeed, it is not fit that you should be up; the house is like a cellar this evening."

Mijnheer did not suggest the remedy of a fire; he, too, shared the belief that stoves should
not be lighted before the appointed time; he only protested at the idea of bed. "Pooh!" he
said. "Make myself an invalid with Joost away! Will you go and nurse my nose, and put plasters
on my chest? Go to bed now, do you say? No, no, my dear, I will sit here; I am comfortable
enough; I read my paper, I smoke my cigar; by and by, I go out to see that my barns are all
safe for the night."

But at this Mevrouw gave an exclamation; the idea of his going out in such weather was terrible,
she said, and she said it a good many times.

Julia bent over her work; she heard the swish of the rain on the window, the uneven sob of
the fitful wind; she heard the old people talk, the husband persist, the wife protest. She
did not look up; her eyes were fixed on her needle, but she hardly saw it; more plainly she
saw the dark barns, the crowded shelves, the place where the blue daffodils were. She could
find them with perfect ease; could choose one in the dark as easily as Mijnheer himself; she
could substitute for it another, one of the common sort of the same shape and size; no one
would be the wiser; even when it bloomed, with the simple yellow flower that has beautified
spring woods so long, no one would know it was not a sport of nature, a throw back to the original
parent. It was the simplest thing in all the world; the safest. Not that that recommended it;
she would rather it had been difficult or dangerous, it would have savoured more of a fair
fight and less of trickery. Besides, such safety was nothing; anything can be made safe with
care and forethought.

She caught her own name in the talk now; husband and wife were speaking lower, evidently arguing
as to the propriety of asking her to go the rounds; for a moment she pretended not to hear,
then she raised her head, contempt for her own weakness in her mind. It is not opportunity
that makes thieves of thinking folk, and she knew it; rather it is the thief that makes opportunity,
if he is up to his work. Why should she be afraid to go to the barns? She would not take the
daffodil the more for going; if she meant to do it, and, through cowardice, let this opportunity
slip, she would soon find another. And if she did not mean to, the proximity of the thing would
not make her take it.

She put down her work. "I will lock up for you, Mijnheer; give me the keys."

He protested, and his wife protested, much more feebly, and thanked her for going the while.
They gave her many directions, and told her she must put on this, that, and the other, and
must be careful not to get her feet wet, and really need not to be too particular in examining
all the doors. She answered them with impatient politeness, as one does who is waiting for
the advent of a greater matter; she was not irritated by the trivial interruptions which came
between her and the decision which was yet to be made; it was somehow so great to her that
it seemed as if it could wait. At last she was off, Mijnheer's galoshes wallowing about her
feet, his black-caped mackintosh thrown round her shoulders. She had neither hat nor umbrella.
Mevrouw literally wailed when she started; but it made no impression, she came of the nation
most indifferent to getting wet, and most-susceptible to death by consumption of any in Europe.

She slopped along in the great galoshes, her back to the lighted house now, her face to the
dark barns. There they were, easily accessible, waiting for her. Was she to take one, or was
she not? She did not give herself any excuse for taking it, or tell herself that one out of
six was not much; or that Joost, could he know the case, would not have grudged her one of
his precious bulbs. There was only one thing she admitted--it was there, and her need for it
was great. With it she could pay a debt that was due, show her father an honourable man, and,
seeing that the affair could always remain secret, raise herself nearer to Rawson-Clew's level.
Without it she could not.

She had come to the first barn now, and, unbarring the door, went in. Almost oppressive came
the dry smell of the bulbs to her; very familiar, too, as familiar as the distorted shadows
that her lantern made. Together they brought vividly to her mind the first time she went the
rounds with Joost--the night when she told him she was bad, the worst person he knew. Poor
Joost, he had interpreted her words his own way; she remembered very plainly what he said but
two nights ago--right and wrong, honourable and dishonourable, wise and unwise, they meant
the same thing to different people, the choosing of the higher, the leaving of the lower--and
he believed no less of her. That belief, surely, was a thing that fought on the side of the
angels? And then there was that other man, able, well-bred, intellectual, her superior, who
had treated her as an equal, and so tacitly demanded that she should conform to his code of
honour. And there was Johnny Gillat, poor, old round-faced Johnny, who, under his silly, shabby
exterior, had somewhere, quite understood, the same code, and standard of a gentleman, and
never doubted but that she had it too--surely these two, also, were on the side of the angels?

But it was not a matter of angels, neither was it a matter of this man's thought, or that.
At bottom, it seemed all questions could be brought to plain terms--What do I think? I, alone
in the big, black, contradictory world. Julia realised it, and asked herself what it mattered
if he, if they, if all the world called it wrong? What--pitiless, logical question--was wrong?
Why should to take in one case be so called, and in another not? By whose word, and by what
law was a thing thus, and why was she to submit to it?

She faced the darkness, the lantern at her feet, her back against the shelves, and asked herself
the world-old question; and, like many before her, found no answer, because logic, merciless
solvent of faith and hope and law, never answers its own riddles. Only, as she stood there,
there rose up before her mind's eye the face of Joost, with its simple gravity, its earnest,
trusting blue eyes. She saw it, and she saw the humble dignity with which he had shown her
his six bulbs. Not as a proud possessor shows a treasure, rather as an adept shares some secret
of his faith or art; so had he placed them in her power, given her a chance to so use this
trust. She almost groaned aloud as she recalled him, and recalled, sorely against her will,
a horrible tale she had once read, of a Brahmin who murdered a little child for her worthless
silver anklets. Joost was a veritable child to her, powerless before her ability, trusting
in her good faith, a child indeed, even if he had not placed his secret in her grasp. And it
was he--this child--that she, with her superior strength, was going to rob!

She shivered. Why was he not Rawson-Clew? Why could not he take better care of himself and
his possessions? She could have done it with a light heart then; there would have been a semblance
of fight in it; but now--now it could not be done. Logic, the pitiless solvent, has no action
on those old long-transmitted instincts; it may argue with, but it cannot destroy, those vague
yearnings of the natural man towards righteousness. Julia did not argue, she only obeyed; she
did not know why.

She picked up the lantern, and moved to go; as she did so, the barn door, lightly fastened,
blew open. A rush of rain and wind swept in, the smell of the wet earth, and the sight of the
tossing trees, and massed clouds that fled across the sky. For a moment she stood and looked,
hearing the wild night voices, the sob of the wet wind, the rustle and mutter of the trees--those
primitive inarticulate things that do not lie. And in her heart she felt very weary of shams
and pretences, very hungry for the rest of reality and truth. She turned away, and made the
round of the barns systematically, and without haste; she did not hurry past the resting-place
of the blue daffodils, they were safe from her now and always.

It was not till some weeks later that she saw, and not then without also seeing it was quite
impossible to disprove the proposition, that there was something grimly absurd in the idea
which had possessed her that night--the thought of stealing to prove a lie, and acting dishonourably
to pay a debt of honour. At the time she did not think at all, she acted on instinct only.
Thank God for those dumb instincts, making for righteousness, which, in spite of theologians,
are implanted somewhere in the heart of man.

So she went the rounds, fastened the barns, and came out of the last one, locking the door
after her. Outside, she stood a second, the rain falling upon her bare head, the wind blowing
her cloak about her. And she did not feel triumphant or victorious, nor reluctant and contemptuous
of her weakness; only somehow apart and alone, and very, very tired.

CHAPTER VIII

POOFERCHJES AND JEALOUSY

The Polkingtons were launching out; not ostentatiously with expensive entertainments or anything
striking, but in all small ways, scarcely noticeable except in general effect, but none the
less expensive. They could not afford it; the past nine months had been very difficult, first
the Captain's unfortunate misuse of the cheque, then Violet's engagement and the necessary
entertainment that it involved, and then her wedding. Financially they were in a very bad way,
but that did not prevent them spending--or owing--in a rather lordly fashion. Mrs. Polkington
with one daughter married, and another safely out of the way, seemed determined to take the
field well with the remaining one. Chèrie was quite ready to second the effort, indeed, she
was the instigator; she was not only the prettiest of the sisters, but also the most ease loving,
and though ambitious, less clever than the others, and a great deal more short-sighted. She
had for some time ceased to be content with the position at Marbridge and the society there;
she wanted to be recognised by the "county." This desire had been growing of late, for there
had been a very eligible and attractive bachelor addition to that charmed circle, and he had
more than once looked admiration her way. She and her mother went to work well and spared neither
time nor trouble; not much result could be expected during the summer months, little done then
except get ready--an expensive proceeding. It was when September brought people home for the
partridge shooting and October's pheasants kept them there till hunting began, that they expected
their success and the return for their outlay, and they were quite content to wait for it.

Their plans and doings were naturally not confided to any one, not even Julia; she heard seldom
from Marbridge; the family feelings were of a somewhat utilitarian order, based largely on
mutual benefit. She wrote now and then; she happened to do so on the day after the one on which
she did not take the blue daffodil; and she mentioned in this letter that it was possible she
should be home again soon. Seeing that she had decided the daffodil was unobtainable she saw
little reason for staying longer; this of course she did not mention when she wrote. Somewhat
to her surprise she got an almost immediate reply to her letter.

It would not suit Mrs. Polkington and Chèrie to have Julia back soon at all; it is always easier
to swim socially with one daughter than two, especially if the second is not good-looking.
Also, Julia, cautious, long-headed and capable, was certain to criticise their proceedings
and do her best to interfere with them. She would be wrong in her judgments, of course, and
they right; they were sure of that, but they did not want the trouble of attempting to convert
her, and anyhow, they felt they could do much better without her, and Mrs. Polkington wrote
and intimated as much politely. She gave several excellent reasons, all of which were perfectly
transparent to Julia, though that did not matter, seeing that she was sufficiently hurt in
her feelings, or her pride, to at once determine to fulfil her mother's wishes and do anything
rather than go where she was not wanted.

There was not much said of the plans and doings in Mrs. Polkington's letter, but a little crept
in almost without the writer's knowledge, enough to rouse Julia's suspicions. Why, she asked
herself, was her mother suddenly enamoured with the beauty of Chippendale furniture? How did
she know that Sturt's (the tailor's) prices were lower for costumes this season? And in what
way had she become aware what the Ashton's last parlour-maid thought, if she had not engaged
that young woman for her own service? Julia was at once uneasy and disgusted; the last alike
with the proceedings themselves and the attempt to deceive her about them. And another letter
she received at the same time did not make her any more satisfied; it was from Johnny Gillat,
about as silly and uninforming a letter as ever man wrote, but it contained one piece of information.
Mr. Gillat was going to have a great excitement in the early autumn--Captain Polkington was
coming to London, perhaps for as long as three months. Johnny did not know why; he thought
perhaps to have some treatment for his rheumatism; Mrs. Polkington had arranged it. Julia did
know why, and the short-sightedness of the policy roused her contempt. To thus put the family
drawback out of the way, and leave him to his own devices and Mr. Gillat's care, seemed to
her as unwise towards him as it was unkind to Johnny. She would have written that minute to
expostulate with her mother if she had not just then been called away.

These two disturbing letters arrived on the day that Joost came home from Germany, after the
English mail for the day had gone. Julia comforted herself with this last fact when she was
called before she had time to write to her mother; she could write when she went to bed that
night; the letter would go just as soon as if it was written now; so she went to answer Mevrouw's
summons to admire the carved crochet hook her son had brought her as a present from Germany.
Joost had brought several small presents besides the crochet hook, a pipe for his father, and
two other trifles--a small vase and a photograph of a plant which was the pride of the Berlin
gardens that year--an aloe, no yucca, but one of the true rare blooming sort, in full flower.
Julia was asked to take her choice of these two; she chose the photograph because it seemed
to her much more characteristic of the giver, and also because it was easier to put away. She
had no idea of pleasing Joost by so doing; to tell the truth she hardly felt desirous of pleasing
him, for though she had refrained from taking his blue daffodil and was in a way satisfied
that she had done so, she did not feel exactly grateful to him for unconsciously standing between
her and it, from which some may conclude that virtue was not an indigenous plant with Julia.

When Denah arrived after dinner she was given the vase. Before Joost went away she had expressed
in his hearing a wish that she had something from Berlin; she had said it rather pronouncedly
as one might express a desire for a bear from the Rocky Mountains, or a ruby from Burmah; she
could hardly have received one of those with more enthusiasm than she did the vase. She admired
it from every point of view and thanked Joost delightedly; the delight, however, was a little
modified when Mijnheer let slip the fact that Julia also had a present from Berlin.

"Have you?" she asked suspiciously. "What is it? Show me."

Julia fetched the photograph and exhibited it with as little elation as possible. Denah did
not admire it greatly, she said she much preferred her own present.

At this Joost smiled a little; it was only what he expected, and Julia began tactfully to talk
about the beauties of the vase; but Denah was not to be put off her main point.

"Do you not prefer mine; really and truly, would you not rather it had been yours?" she asked.

Julia could have slipped out of the answer quite easily; the Polkingtons were all good at saying
things to be interpreted according to taste; but Joost, with signal idiocy, stepped in and
prevented.

"No," he said, "she preferred the photograph; she chose it of the two."

At this intelligence Denah's face was a study; Julia could not but be amused by it although
she was sorry. She did not want to make the girl jealous, it was absurd that she should be;
but absurdity never prevents such things, and would not now, nor would it make her pleasanter
if she were once fairly roused. Julia smoothed matters over as well as she could, which was
very well considering, though she failed to entirely allay Denah's suspicions.

As soon after as she could she set out for the village, leaving the field to the Dutch girl,
and carrying with her enough unpleasant thoughts on other things to prevent her from giving
any more consideration to the silly spasm of jealousy. She had thrust her two letters from
England into her pocket, and as she went she kept turning and turning their news in her mind
though without much result. There seemed very little she could do except prevent the banishing
of her father to London. She would write to her mother about that, and, what might be rather
more effective, to Mr. Gillat. She could tell him it must not happen, and instruct him how
to place obstacles in the way; he would do his best to fulfil her requests, she was sure, even
to going down to Marbridge and establishing himself there about the time of her father's intended
departure. But with regard to the rest of her mother's plans, or Chèrie's, whichever it might
be, there seemed nothing to be done. To write would be useless; to go home, even if she swallowed
her pride and did so, very little better; of course she had not anything very definite to go
upon, only a hint here and there, yet she guessed pretty well what they were doing, what spending,
and what they thought to get by it. The old, long-headed Julia feared for the result; Mrs.
Polkington, clever though she undoubtedly was, had never succeeded in big ventures; she had
not the sort of mind for it; she had never made a wholly successful big stride; her real climbing
had been done very slowly, so the old Julia feared for her. And the new one, who had grown
up during the past months, revolted against the whole thing, finding it sordid, despicable,
dishonourable even, somehow all wrong. And perhaps because the old cautious Julia could do
nothing to avert the consequences, the newer nature was in the ascendant that evening, and
consequences were in time forgotten, and disgust and weariness and shame--which included self
and all things connected with it--took possession of the girl.

By and by she heard a step behind her--Rawson-Clew. She had forgotten his existence; she was
almost sorry to be reminded of it; she felt so ashamed of herself and her people, so conscious
of the gulf between them and him. So very conscious of this last that she suddenly felt disinclined
for the effort of struggling to hide or bridge it.

He caught up with her. "How has the crochet progressed this week under your care?" he asked
her lightly.

"It has not progressed," she answered; "there are enough mistakes in it now to occupy Denah
for a long time."

He took her basket from her, and she looked at him thoughtfully. He was just the same as usual,
quiet, drawling voice, eyeglass, everything--she wondered if he were ever different; how he
would act, say, in her circumstances. If they could change bodies, now, and he be Julia Polkington,
with her relations, needs and opportunities, what would he do? Would he still be impassive,
deliberate, equal to all occasions? Would he find it easy to keep his inviolable laws of good-breeding
and honour, and so forth?

"There is something I should like to ask you," she said suddenly.

"Yes?" he inquired.

"Is it much trouble to you to be honest?"

He was a little surprised, though not so much as he would have been earlier in their acquaintance.
"That," he said, "I expect rather depends on what you mean by honest. I imagine you don't refer
to lying and stealing, and that sort of thing, since nobody finds it difficult to avoid them."

"They are not gentlemanly?" she suggested.

"I don't know that I ever looked at it in that way," he said; "or, indeed, any way. One does
not think about those sort of things; one does not do them, that's all."

She nodded. The careless change of pronoun, which in a way included her with himself, was not
lost upon her.

"In the matter of half-truths," she inquired; "how about them?"

"I don't think I have given that subject consideration either," he answered, rather amused;
"there does not seem any need at my age. One does things, or one does not; abstractions don't
appeal to most men after thirty."

Again Julia nodded. "It looks to me," she said, "as if you take your morality, like your dinner,
as a matter of course; it's always there; you don't have to bother after it; you don't really
know how it comes, or what it is worth."

Now and then Rawson-Clew had observed in his acquaintance with Julia, she said things which
had a way of lighting him up to himself; this was one of the occasions. "Possibly you are right,"
he said, with faint amusement. "How do you take yours? Let us consider yours; I am sure it
would be a great deal more interesting."

"There would be more variety in it," she said significantly.

"What is your opinion about half-truths?" he inquired, with grave mimicry of her.

     "'Half a truth, however small,
      Is better than no truth at all,'"

she quoted. "That is so; it is better, safer to deal with--to explain away if it is found out,
to deceive with if it is not. But it is not half so easy as the whole truth; that is the easiest
thing in the world; it takes no ingenuity, no brains, no courage, no acting, no feeling the
pulse of your people, no bolstering up or watching or remembering. If I wanted to teach the
beauty of truth, I would set my pupils to do a little artistic white lying on their own account,
to make things look four times as good as they really were, and not to forget to make them
square together, that would teach them the advantage of truth."

"Do you think so?" Rawson-Clew said. "It is not the usual opinion; fools and cowards are generally
supposed to be the great dealers in deceit and subterfuge."

"May be," Julia allowed; "but I don't happen to have come across that sort much; the other
I have, and I am just about sick of it--I am sick of pretending and shamming and double-dealing,
of saying one thing and implying another, and meaning another still--you don't know what it
feels like, you have never had to do it; you wouldn't, of course; very likely you couldn't,
even. I am weary of it; I am weary of the whole thing."

Rawson-Clew screwed the glass into his eye carefully but did not look at her; he had an idea
she would rather not. "What is it?" he asked kindly. "What has gone wrong to-night? Too much
pudding again?"

"No," she answered, with a quick, if partial, recovery; "too much humbug, too much self. I
have seen a great deal of myself lately, and it's hateful."

"I cannot agree with you."

"Do you like having a lot of yourself?"

"No; I like yourself."

She laughed a little; in her heart she was pleased, but she only said, "I don't; I know what
it really is."

"And I do not?"

"No," she answered; then, with a sudden determination to tell him the worst, and to deal in
this newly admired honesty, she said, "I will tell you, though. You remember my father? You
may have politely forgotten him, or smoothed out your recollections of him--remember him now;
he is just about what you thought him."

"Indeed?" the tone was that one of polite interest, which she had come to know so well. "Your
shoe is unfastened; may I tie it for you? The question is," he went on, as he stooped to her
shoe, "what did I think of your father? I'm sure I don't know, and I hardly think you are in
a position to, either."

She moved impatiently, so that the shoelace slipped out of his hand, and he had to begin all
over again. It was a very shabby shoe; at another time she might have minded about it, and
even refused to have it fastened on that account; to-night she did not care, which was perhaps
as well, for Rawson-Clew knew long ago all about the shabbiness--the only thing he did not
know before was the good shape of the foot inside.

"I know perfectly well what you thought my father," she said; "if you have forgotten, I will
remind you. You did not think him an adventurer, I know; of course, you saw he had not brains
enough."

But here the shoe tying was finished, and Rawson-Clew intimated politely that he was not anxious
to be reminded of things he had forgotten. "You began by saying you would tell me about yourself,"
he said; "will you not go on?"

"I have more brains than my father," she said, "and no more principles."

"Ergo--you succeed where he falls short; in fact, you are an adventuress--is that it? My dear
child, you neither are, nor ever could be; believe me, I really do know, though, as you have
indicated, my morality is rather mechanical and my experience much as other men's. You see,
I, too, have graduated in the study of humanity in the university of cosmopolis; I don't think
my degree is as high as yours, and I certainly did not take it so young, but I believe I know
an adventuress when I see one. You will never do in that walk of life; I don't mean to insinuate
that you haven't brains enough, or that you would ever lose your head; it isn't that you would
lose, it's your heart."

"I haven't;" Julia cried hotly. "I have not lost my heart; that has nothing to do with it."

"I did not say that you had," Rawson-Clew reminded her; "of course not, you have not lost it,
and could not easily. I did not mean that; I only meant that it would interfere with your success
as an adventuress."

"It would not," Julia persisted; "I don't care about people a bit; it isn't that, it is simply
that I am sick of deception, that is why I am telling you the truth. And as for the other thing--the
daffodil"--she forgot that he did not know about it--"I couldn't take it from any one so silly,
so childish, so trusting."

"Of course not," Rawson-Clew said. "I don't know what the daffodil thing is, nor from whom
you could not take it--please don't tell me; I never take the slightest interest in other people's
business, it bores me. But, you see, you bear out what I say; you are of those strong who are
merciful; you would make no success as an adventuress. Besides, your tastes are too simple;
I have some recollections of your mentioning corduroy--er--trousers and a diet of onions as
the height of your ambition."

Julia laughed in spite of herself. "That is only when I retire," she said. "I haven't retired
yet; until I do I am--"

"The incarnation of the seven deadly sins?" Rawson-Clew finished for her, with a smile in his
eyes. "No doubt of it; I expect that is what makes you good company."

So, after all, it came about that she did not get her confession made in full. But, then, there
hardly seemed need for it; it appeared that Rawson-Clew already knew a great deal about her,
and did not think the worse of her for it. Rather it seemed he thought better than she had
even believed; he, himself, too, was rather different--there had crept a note of warmth and
personality into their acquaintance which had not been there before. Julia had pleasant thoughts
for company on her homeward walk, in spite of the worry of the letters she carried with her;
she even for a moment had an idea of putting the matter they contained before Rawson-Clew and
asking his advice; that is, if the friendship which had begun to dawn on their acquaintance
that evening grew yet further. It did grow, but she did not ask him, loyalty to her family
prevented; there were, however, plenty of other things to talk about, and the friendship got
on well until the end came.

The end came about the time of the annual fair. This fair was a great event in the little town;
it only lasted three days, and only the middle one of the three was important, or in the least
provocative of disorder; but--so Mijnheer said--it upset business very much. After inquiry
as to how this came about, Julia learnt that it was found necessary to give the workmen a holiday
on the principal day. They got so drunk the night before, that most of them were unfit for
work, and a few even had the hardihood to stop away entirely, so as to devote the whole day
to getting drunk again. Under these circumstances, Mijnheer made a virtue of necessity, and
gave a whole holiday to the entire staff.

"Does the office have a holiday too?" Julia asked.

Mijnheer nodded. "These young fellows," he said, "are all for holidays; they are not like their
fathers. Now it is always 'I must ride on my wheel; I must row in my boat; I must play my piano;
let us put the work away as soon as we can, and forget it.' It was not so in my young days;
then we worked, or we slept; playing was for children. There were some great men of business
in those days."

Julia was not in a position to contradict this; she only said, "It is a real holiday, then,
like a bank holiday in England?"

"A real holiday, yes," he answered her; "a holiday for you too, if you like. Would you like
a real English bank holiday?" He called to his wife: "See here," he said, "here is an English
miss who would like an English holiday; when the workmen have theirs she shall have hers too,
is it not so?"

Mevrouw nodded, laughing. "But what will you do with it?" she asked.

"I should go out," Julia answered; "if it is fine I should go out all day."

"To the fair?" Mijnheer asked. "You would not like that alone; it would be very rough."

"I should go out into the country," Julia said. "I should make an excursion all by myself."

They seemed a good deal amused by her taste, but the idea suggested in fun was really determined
upon; Julia, so Mijnheer promised, should have a holiday when every one else did, and do just
what she pleased.

"You shall do as you like," he said; "even though it is not to go to the fair and eat pooferchjes.
It is only once in a year one can eat pooferchjes, or three times rather; they are to be had
on each of the three days."

"What are they?" Julia asked. "I have never heard of them."

"Never heard of them," the old man exclaimed. "They do not have them, I suppose, on an English
bank holiday? Then certainly you must have them here; we will go and eat them on the first
day of the fair, when everything is nice and clean, and there are not too many people about.
I will find a nice quiet place, and we will go and eat them together, after tea, before there
are great crowds. Will you come with me? I shall be taking my young lady to the fair like a
gay dog."

He chuckled at the idea, and Julia readily agreed. "I shall be delighted," she said.

When Denah came, a little later, it seemed she would be delighted too, although she was not
specially asked. But when she heard of the plan, she announced that her father had promised
to take Anna and herself, and what could be better than that the parties should join? Mijnheer
quite approved of this, so did Julia; and she, on hearing Denah's proposal, at once saw that
Joost was included as he had not been before. Joost did not like fairs; he objected to noise,
and glare, and crowds, and all such things; neither did he care for pooferchjes; they were
too bilious for him. Nevertheless he agreed to join the party; Denah was quite sure it was
entirely on her account.

On the morning of the first day of the fair, Julia went into the town to buy cakes to take
with her on to-morrow's excursion. She had not changed her mind about that; she was still fully
determined to go and spend a long day in the Dunes. She had not told the Van Heigens of the
place chosen; she and Mijnheer had much fun and mystery about it, he declaring she was going
to the wood to ride donkeys with the head gardener's fat wife. There was another thing she
also had not told the Van Heigens--a slight alteration there had been in her plans; she was
not, as she had first intended, going alone. It had somehow come about that Rawson-Clew was
going with her; he had never seen the Dunes, and he had nothing to do that day, and he was
not going to Herr Van de Greutz in the evening, it seemed rather a good idea that he should
go for a holiday too; Julia saw no objection to it, but also she saw that it would not do to
tell her Dutch employers. She had never mentioned Rawson Clew to them--there had not seemed
any need; she never met him till she was clear of the town and the range of reporting tongues
there, and she usually parted from him before she reached the village and the observers there,
so nothing was known of the evening walks. Which was rather a pity, for, as Julia afterwards
found out, it is often wisest to tell something of your doings, especially if you cannot tell
all, and they are likely to come in for public notice.

Julia bought her cakes, and went about the town feeling as holiday-like as the gayest peasant
there, although she had no wonderful holiday head-dress of starched lace and gold plates. She
did not see any one she knew, except old Marthe, Herr Van de Greutz's housekeeper. She had
met the old woman several times when she was marketing, and was on speaking terms with her
now, so she had to stop and listen to her troubles. They were only the same old tale; her newest
young cook had left suddenly, and she had come to the town to see if she could get another
from among the girls who had come in for the fair. She had no success at all, and was setting
out for home, despondent, and not at all comforted to think that she would have to trudge in
and try all over again the day after to-morrow. To-morrow, itself, the great day, it was no
good trying; no girl would pay attention to business then.

In the evening Julia went again into the town, but this time with Mijnheer and Joost, and dressed
in her best dress. It was not at all a new dress, nor at all a grand one, but it was well chosen,
well made and well fitted, and certainly very well put on; the gloves and hat, too, accorded
with it, and she herself was in a humour of gaiety that bordered on brilliancy. Was she not
going to have a holiday to-morrow, and was she not going to spend it in company with a man
she liked, and in despite of Dutch propriety, which would certainly have been thoroughly and
outrageously shocked thereby? Denah knew nothing of the causes at work, but she was not slow
to discern the result when she and her father and sister met the Van Heigen party that evening.
She smoothed the bow at the neck of her best dress, and looked at her gloves discontentedly;
she did not altogether admire Julia's clothes, they were not at all Dutch; but she had an intuitive
idea that they came nearer to Paris, the sartorial ideal of the nations, than her own did.
She looked suspiciously at the English girl, her eyes were shining and sparkling like stars;
they were full of alert interest and half-suppressed mischief. She looked at everything, and
overlooked nothing, though she was talking to Mijnheer in a soft, purring voice, that was full
of fun and wickedness. Now she turned to Joost, and her voice took another tone; she was teasing
him, making fun of him in a way that Denah decided was scandalous, although his father was
there, aiding and abetting her. Joost did not seem to resent it a bit; he listened quite serenely,
and even turned a look on her as one who has another and private interpretation of the words.
Anna saw nothing of this; she only thought Julia very nice, and her dress pretty, and her talk
gay. But Denah, though not always so acute, was in love, and she saw a good deal, and treasured
it up for use when the occasion should offer.

They ate pooferchjes, sitting in a funny little covered stall; at least, the top and three
sides were covered, the fourth was open to the street. A long, narrow table, with clean white
calico spread on it, ran down the centre of the place, and narrow forms stood on either side
of it. It was lighted by a Chinese lantern hung from the roof, and also, and more especially,
by a flare outside of the charcoal fire, where the pooferchjes were cooked. A powerful brown-armed
peasant woman made them, beating the batter till it frothed, and dropping it by the spoonful
into the little hollows in the great sheet of iron that glowed on the stove without. The glow
of the fire was on her too, on her short skirt and her fine arms, and the flaring light, that
flickered in the breeze, danced on her strong, brown face, with its resolute lines, and splendid
gold-ringed head-dress. People kept passing to and fro all the time, or stopping sometimes
to look in; solemnly-gay holiday people, enjoying themselves after their own fashion. The light
flickered on them, too, and on the brick pavement, and on the trees, plentiful almost as canals
in the town. Julia leaned forward and looked, and listened to the guttural Dutch voices, and
the curious patois to be heard now and then, and the distant notes of music that blended with
it. And the flickering lights and shadows danced across her mind, and the simple holiday feeling
of it all got to her head.

Then the pooferchjes were done and brought in, little round, crisp things, smoking hot, and
very greasy; something like tiny English pancakes--at least one might say so if one had not
tasted them. And then more people came in and sat at the opposite side of the table, a gardener
of another bulb grower, and his two daughters. He raised his hat to the Van Heigen party, and
received a similar salutation in return, though he and they were careful to put their hats
on again, a draught being a thing much feared. Mijnheer shook hands with the father, and they
entered into conversation about the weather; the girls looked across at Denah and Anna, and
more still at Julia, whose small, slim hands they evidently admired.

But at last the pooferchjes were all eaten and paid for. To do the latter the notary, Mijnheer
and Joost all brought out large purses and counted out small coins with care, and the party
came out, making way for new-comers. They did not go straight home again, as was first intended,
Julia's interest and gaiety seemed to have infected the others--all except Denah, and they
walked for a little while among the booths of toys, and sweets, and peepshows, and entertainments.
And as they went, Denah grew more and more silent, watching Julia, who was walking with Joost;
the arrangement was not of the English girl's seeking, but Denah took no account of that. The
thing of which she did take account was that they two talked as they walked together, he as
well as she, but both with the ease and quick comprehension of people who have talked together
often.

Mijnheer stopped to look at the merry-go-round; he admired the cheerful tune that it played.
He was not a connoisseur of music; a barrel-organ was as good to him as the organ in the Groote
Kerk. The others stopped too; Anna exclaimed on the life-like and clever appearance of the
bobbing horses, whereupon her father suggested that perhaps the girls would like to try a ride
on the machine, and then befel the crowning mischief of the evening. Julia and Anna accepted
the proposal readily. Denah declined; she felt in no humour for it; also she thought a refusal
showed a superior mind--one likely to appeal to a serious young man, who had no taste for the
gaudy, gay, or fast, and who also had a tendency towards seasickness. But, alas, for the fickleness
of man! While Denah stood with her father and Mijnheer, Julia rode round the centre of lighted
mirrors on a prancing wooden horse, and Joost--the serious, the sometimes seasick--rode beside
her on a dappled grey, to the familiar old English tune, "Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-a."

CHAPTER IX

THE HOLIDAY

The Dunes lay some little distance from the town, a low, but suddenly-rising hill boundary,
that shut in the basin of flat land. They were all of pure sand, though in many places so matted
with vegetation that it was hardly recognisable as such. Trees grew in places, especially on
the side that fronted towards the town; the way up lay through a dense young wood of beech
and larch, and a short, broad-leafed variety of poplar. There was no undergrowth, but between
the dead leaves one could see that a dark green, short-piled moss had managed to find a hold
here and there, though so smooth was it that it looked more like old enamel than a natural
growth. The trees had the appearance of high summer, deeply, intensely green, so that they
seemed almost blackish in mass. There was no breeze among them; even the dapples of sunlight
which found their way through the roof of leaves hardly stirred, but lay in light patches,
like scattered gold upon the ground. Flies and gnats moved and shimmered, a busy life, whose
small voices were the only sound to be heard; all else was very still, with the glorious reposeful
stillness of full summer; not oppressive, without weariness or exhaustion, rather as if the
whole creation paused at this zenith to look round on its works, and beheld and saw that they
were all very good.

There were no clear paths, apparently few people went that way; certainly there was no one
about when Julia and Rawson-Clew came. It is true they saw a kind of little beer-garden at
the foot of the slope, but there was no one idling about it.

"We shall have to come back here for lunch," Julia said.

And when he suggested that it was rather a pity to have to retrace their steps, she answered,
"It doesn't matter, we are not going anywhere particular; we may just as well wander one way
as another. When we get to the top this time we will explore to the right, and when we get
there again after lunch, we will go to the left; don't you think that is the best way? This
is to be a holiday, you know."

"Is a real holiday like a dog's wanderings?" Rawson-Clew inquired; "bounded by no purpose except
dinner when hungry?"

Julia thought it must be something of the kind. "Though," she said, "dogs always seem to have
some end in view, or perhaps a dozen ends, for though they tear off after an imaginary interest
as if there was nothing else in the world, they get tired of it, or else start another, and
forget all about the first."

"That must also be part of the essence of a holiday," Rawson-Clew said; "at least, one would
judge it to be so; boys and dogs, the only things in nature who really understand the art of
holiday-making, chase wild geese, and otherwise do nothing of any account, with an inexhaustible
energy, and a purposeful determination wonderful to behold. Also, they forget that there is
such a thing as to-morrow, so that must be important too."

"I can't do that," Julia said.

"You might try when you get to the top," he suggested. "I will try then; I don't think I could
do anything requiring an effort just now."

Julia agreed that she could not either, and they went on up straight before them. It is as
easy to climb a sand-hill in one place as in another, provided you stick your feet in the right
way, and do not mind getting a good deal of sand in your boots. So they went straight, and
at last got clear of the taller trees, and were struggling in thickets of young poplars, and
other sinewy things. The sand was firmer, but honeycombed with rabbit holes, and tangled with
brambles, and the direction was still upwards, though the growth was so thick, and the ground
so bad, that it was often necessary to go a long way round. But in time they were through this
too, and really out on the top. Here there was nothing but the Dunes, wide, curving land, that
stretched away and away, a tableland of little hollows and hills, like some sea whose waves
have been consolidated; near at hand its colours were warm, if not vivid, but in the far distance
it grew paler as the vegetation became less and less, till, far away, almost beyond sight,
it failed to grey helm grass, and then altogether ceased, leaving the sand bare. Behind lay
the trees through which they had come, sloping downwards in banks of cool shadows to the map-like
land and the distant town below; away on right and left were other groups of trees, on sides
of hills and in rounded hollows, looking small enough from here, but in reality woods of some
size. Here there was nothing; but, above, a great blue sky, which seemed very close; and, underfoot,
low-growing Dune roses and wild thyme which filled the warm, still air with its matchless scent;
nothing but these, and space, and sunshine, and silence.

Julia stopped and looked round, drawing in her breath; she had found what she had come to see--what,
perhaps, she had been vaguely wanting to find for a long time.

"Isn't it good?" she said at last. "Did you know there was so much room--so much room anywhere?"

Rawson-Clew looked in the direction she did; he had seen so much of the world, and she had
seen so little of it--that is, of the part which is solitary and beautiful. Yet he felt something
of her enthusiasm for this sunny, empty place--than which he had seen many finer things every
year of his life.

Perhaps this thought occurred to her, for she turned to him rather wistfully: "I expect it
does not seem very much to you," she said; "you have seen such a great deal."

"I do not remember to have seen anything quite like this," he answered; "and if I had, what
then? One does not get tired of things."

Julia looked at him thoughtfully. "I wonder," she said, "if one would? If one would get weary
of it, and want to go back to the other kind of life?"

She was not thinking of Dune country, rather of the simple life it represented to her just
then. Rawson-Clew caught the note of seriousness in her tone and reminded her that thought
for the past or future was no part of a holiday. "Remember," he said, "you are to-day to emulate
dogs and boys."

She laughed. "How am I to begin?" she asked. "How will you?"

"I shall sit down," he said; "I feel I could be inconsequent much better if I sat down to it;
that is no doubt because I am past my first youth."

"No," she said, sitting down and putting her hat beside her; "it is because your folly-muscles
are stiff from want of use; you have played lots of things, I expect--it is part of your necessary
equipment to be able to do so, but I doubt if you have ever played the fool systematically.
I don't believe you have ever done, and certainly never enjoyed anything inconsequent or foolish
in your life."

"If you were to ask me," he returned, "I should hardly say you excelled in that direction either.
How many inconsequent and foolish things have you done in your life?"

"Some, and I should like to do some more. If I were alone now, do you know what I should do?
You see that deep hollow of sparkling white sand? I should take off my clothes and lie there
in the sun."

Rawson-Clew turned so that his back was that way. "Do not let me prevent you," he said.

Julia made use of the opportunity to empty the sand out of her boots.

He looked round as she was finishing fastening them. "But why put them on again?" he asked.

"Because I haven't retired from the world, yet," she answered, "and so I can't do quite all
I like."

"When you do retire, will this ideal summer costume also be included in the programme? Your
taste in dress grows simpler; quite ancient British, in fact."

"The ancient Britons wore paint, and probably had fashions in it; I don't think of imitating
them. Tell me," she said, turning now to gather the sweet-scented wild thyme, "did you ever
really do anything foolish in your life? I should like to know."

He answered her that he had, but without convincing her. Afterwards, he came to the conclusion
that, whatever might have been the case before, he that day qualified to take rank with any
one in the matter.

All the same, it was a very pleasant day, and they both enjoyed it much; it is doubtful if
any one in the town or its environs enjoyed that holiday more than these two, who, from different
reasons, had probably never had so real a holiday before. They wandered over the great open
tract of land, meeting no one; once they came near enough to the seaward edge to see the distant
shimmer of water; once they found themselves in the part where there has been some little attempt
at cultivation, and small patches of potatoes struggle for life, and a little railway crosses
the sandhills. Twice they came upon the road along which, on working days, the peasant women
bring their fish to market in the town. But chiefly they kept to the small, dense woods, where
the sunlight only splashed the ground; or to the open solitary spaces where the bees hummed
in the wild thyme, and the butterflies chased each other over the low rose bushes.

A good deal after mid-day, at a time dictated entirely by choice, and not custom, they made
their way back to the beer garden. It was a very little place, scarcely worthy of the name;
the smallest possible house, more like a barn than anything else, right in the shadow of the
wood. The fare to be obtained was bad beer, excellent coffee, new bread, and old cheese; but
it was enough, supplemented by the cakes bought yesterday in the town; Julia knew enough of
the ways of the place to know one can bring one's own food to such places without giving offence.
As in the morning, when they first passed it, there was no one about, every one had gone to
the fair, except one taciturn old woman who brought the required things and then shut herself
in the house. The meal was spread under the trees on a little green-painted table, with legs
buried deep in sand; there were two high, straight chairs set up to the table, and a wooden
footstool put by one for Julia, who, seeing it, said this was certainly a picnic, and it was
really necessary to eat the broodje in the correct picnic way. Rawson-Clew tried, with much
gravity, but she laughed till the taciturn old woman looked out of window, and wondered who
they were, and how they came to be here.

When the meal was done, they went back again up the steep slope, and then away on the left.
The country on this side was less open, and more hilly, deeper hollows and larger woods, still
there was not much difficulty in finding the way. The latter part of the day was not so fine
as the earlier, the sky clouded over, and, though there was still no wind, the air grew more
chilly. They hardly noticed the change, being in a dense young wood where there was little
light, but Julia lost something of the holiday spirit, and Rawson-Clew became grave, talking
more seriously of serious things than had ever before happened in their curious acquaintanceship.
They sat down to rest in a green hollow, and Julia began to arrange neatly the bunch of short-stemmed
thyme flowers that she carried. They had been quiet for some little time, she thinking about
their curious acquaintance, and wondering when it would end. Of course it would end--she knew
that; it was a thing of mind only; there was very little feeling about it--a certain mutual
interest and a liking that had grown of late, kindness on his part, gratitude on hers, nothing
more. But of its sort it had grown to be intimate; she had told him things of her thoughts,
and of herself, and her people too, that she had told to no one else; and he, which was perhaps
more remarkable, had sometimes returned the compliment. And yet by and by--soon, perhaps--he
would go away, and it would be as if they had never met; it was like people on a steamer together,
she thought, for the space of the voyage they saw each other daily, saw more intimately into
each other than many blood relations did, and then, when port was reached, they separated,
the whole thing finished. She wondered when this would finish, and just then Rawson-Clew spoke,
and unconsciously answered her thought.

"I am going back to England soon," he said.

She looked up. "Is your work here finished?" she asked.

"It is at an end," he answered; "that is the same thing."

Then she, her intuition enlightened by a like experience suddenly knew that he, too, had failed.
"You mean it cannot be done," she said.

He opened his cigarette case, and selected a cigarette carefully. "May I smoke?" he asked;
"there are a good many gnats and mosquitoes about here." He felt for a match, and, when he
had struck it, asked impersonally, "Do you believe things cannot be done?"

"Yes," she answered; "I know that sometimes they cannot; I have proved it to myself."

"You have not, then, much opinion of the people who do not know when they are beaten?"

"I don't think I have," she answered; "you cannot help knowing when you are beaten if you really
are--that is, unless you are a fool. Of course, if you are only beaten in one round, or one
effort, that is another thing; you can get up and try again. But if you are really and truly
beaten, by yourself, or circumstances, or something--well, there's an end; there is nothing
but to get up and go on."

"Just so; in that case, as you say, there is not much going to be done, except going home."

Julia nodded. "But I can't even do that," she said. "I am beaten, but I have got to stay here
all the same, having nowhere exactly to go."

This was the first time she had spoken even indirectly of her own future movements. "But, perhaps,"
he suggested, "if you stay, you may find a back way to your object after all."

She shook her head. "It is the back way I tried. No, there is no way; it is blocked. I know,
because it is myself that blocks it."

"In that case," he said, "I'm afraid I must agree with you; there is no way; oneself is about
the most insurmountable block of all. I might have known that you were hardly likely to make
any mistake as to whether you were really beaten or not."

"I should not think it was a mistake you were likely to make either," she observed.

"You think not? Well, I had no chance this time; the fact has been made pretty obvious to me."

She did not say she was sorry; in her opinion it was an impertinence to offer condolence to
failure. "I suppose," she said, after a pause, "there is not a back way--a door, or window,
even, to your object?"

"Unfortunately, no. There are no windows at the back; and as to the door--like you, it was
that which I tried, with the result that recently--yesterday, in fact--I was metaphorically
shown out."

Julia had learnt enough by this time, though she had not been told for certain, that her first
suspicions were right; to be sure, it was the explosive which took Rawson-Clew to the little
village evening after evening. She had gathered as much from various things which had been
said, though she did not know at all how he was trying to get it, nor in what way he had introduced
himself to Herr Van de Greutz. Whatever method he had tried it was now clear he had failed;
no doubt been found out, for the chemist, unlike Joost Van Heigen, was the very reverse of
unsuspecting, and thoroughly on the look-out for other nations who wanted to share his discovery.
For a moment Julia wished she had been in Rawson-Clew's place; of course she, too, might have
failed--probably would; she had no reason to think she would succeed where he could not; but
she certainly would not have failed in this for the reason she had failed with the blue daffodil.
The attempt would have been so thoroughly well worth making; there would have been some sport
in it, and a foe worthy of her steel. In spite of her desire for the simple life, she had too
much real ability for this sort of intrigue, and too much past practice in subterfuge, not
to experience lapses of inclination for it when she saw such work being done, and perhaps not
done well. Of this, however, she naturally did not speak to Rawson-Clew; she rearranged her
flowers in silence for a little while, at last she said--

"It is hateful to fail."

"It is ignominious, certainly; one does not wish to blazon it from the housetops; still, doubtless
like your crochet work, it is good discipline."

"Maybe," Julia allowed, but without conviction. "Yours seems a simple failure, mine is a compound
one. If it is ignominious, as you say, to fail, it would have been equally ignominious in another
way if I had succeeded. I could not have been satisfied either way."

"That sounds very complicated," Rawson-Clew said; "but then, I imagine you are a complicated
young person."

"And you are not."

"Not young, certainly," he said, lighting another cigarette.

"Nor complicated," she insisted; "you are built on straight lines; there are given things you
can do and can't do, would do and would not do, and might do in an emergency. It is a fine
kind of person to be, but it is not the kind which surprises itself."

Rawson-Clew blew a smoke-ring into the air; he was smiling a little.

"How old are you?" he said. "Twenty? Almost twenty-one, is it? And until you were sixteen you
knocked about a bit? Sixteen is too young to come much across the natural man--not the artful
dodging man, or the man of civilisation, but the natural, primitive man, own blood relation
to Adam and the king of the Cannibal Islands. You may meet him by and by, and if you do he
may surprise you; he is full of surprises--he rather surprises himself, that is, if his local
habitat is ordinarily an educated, decent person."

"You have not got a natural man," Julia said shortly; she was annoyed, without quite knowing
why, by his manner.

"Have I not? Quite likely; certainly, he has never bothered me, but I should not like to count
on him. Since we have got to personalities, may I say that you have got a natural woman, and
plenty of her; also a marked taste for the works of the machine, in preference to the face
usually presented to the company?"

"The works are the only interesting part; I don't care for the drawing-room side of things;
they are cultivated, but they are too much on the skin. I would much rather be a stoker, or
an engineer, than sit on deck all day and talk about Florentine art, and the Handel Festival,
and Egyptology, and the gospel of Tolstoy, and play cricket and quoits, and dance a little,
and sing a little, and flirt a little, ever so nicely. Oh, there are lots of girls who can
do all those things, and do them equally well; I know a few who can, well off, well-bred girls--you
must know a great many. They are clever to begin with, and they are taught that way; it is
a perfect treat to meet them and watch them, but I never want to imitate them, even if I could--and
there is no danger of that. I would rather be in the engine-room, with my coat off, a bit greasy
and very profane, and doing something. There would be more flesh and blood there, even if it
were a bit grubby; I believe I'm more at home with people who can do--well, what's necessary,
even if it is not exactly nice."

Rawson-Clew knew exactly the kind of woman she had described for the deck--he met them often;
charming creatures, far as the poles asunder from the girl who spoke of them; he liked them--in
moderation, and in their place, much as his forebears of fifty years ago had liked theirs,
the delicate, sensitive creatures of that era. He had never regarded Julia in that light; he
found her certainly more entertaining as a companion, though also very far short of the standard
as a woman and an ornament.

"The people in the engine-room," he observed, "would certainly be more useful in an emergency;
still, life is not made up entirely of emergencies."

"No," Julia answered; "and in between times such people are better not on show--I know that;
that is why I do not care for the drawing-room side of things, I don't know enough to shine
in them."

"Do you think it is a matter of knowledge?" he asked, "or inclination? If it comes to knowledge
I should say you had a rather remarkable stock of an unusual sort, and at first hand. That
may not be what is required for a complete drawing-room success, though I am not sure that
it is not more interesting--say for an excursion--than a flitting glance at the subjects you
mention, and about eighteen or twenty more that you did not."

Julia looked up, half pleased, doubtful as to whether or not to interpret this as a compliment;
she never knew quite how much he meant of what he said; his manner was exactly the same, whether
he was in fun or in earnest. But if she thought of asking him now she was prevented, for at
that moment Mr. Gillat's watch slipped out of her belt into her lap, and she saw the time.

"How late is it!" she exclaimed. "We ought to have started half-an-hour ago; it will take me
two hours, and more, to get home from here, even if I go by the tram in the town."

She rose as she spoke, and he rose more slowly.

"Shall I take your flowers for you?" he asked. "They seem rather inclined to tumble about;
don't you think they would be safer in my pocket? As you say you are going to dry them, it
won't matter crushing them."

She gave them to him, and he put the sweet-smelling bunch into his pocket, then they started
for the edge of the wood.

"It is much colder," Julia said; "and the sun is all gone; I suppose the clouds have been coming
gradually, but I did not notice before. If it is going to rain, we shall get decidedly wet
before we get back."

"I am afraid so," he agreed; "you have no coat."

She told him that did not matter, she did not mind getting wet, and she spoke with a cheerful
buoyancy that carried conviction.

When they reached the outskirts of the wood, however, they saw there was not much chance of
rain, but a much worse evil threatened. All the distance on the seaward side was blotted out,
a fine white mist shut out the curving land in that direction. It was blowing up towards them,
rolling down the little hills in billowy puffs, and lying filmy, yet dense, in the hollows,
moved by a wind unfelt here.

"A sea fog," Julia said; "I wonder how far it is coming."

Rawson-Clew wondered too; he thought, as she did, that there was every chance of its coming
far and fast, but it did not seem necessary to either of them to say anything so unpleasantly
and obviously probable.

They set out homewards as fast as they could; it was a long way to the place where they had
climbed up, unfortunately all across open country, entirely without roads or definite paths,
and the drifting sea fog was coming up fast, bound, it would seem, the same way. Soon it was
upon them; they felt its advance in the chill that, like cold fingers, laid hold on everything;
it came quite silently up from behind, without noticeable wind, eerily creeping up and enfolding
everything, putting a white winding-sheet not about the earth only, but the very air also.
The cotton blouse that Julia wore became limp and wet as if it had been dipped in water; she
could see the fog condensing in beads on her companion's coat almost like hoar frost; it lay
on every low-growing rose bush and bramble that they stepped upon, a curious transformer of
all near objects, a complete obliterator of all more distant ones.

They pushed on as quickly as might be, climbing little hills, descending into hollows; stumbling
among rabbit holes, threading their way through thickets; apparently finding something amusing
in the patriarchal colonies of rabbit burrows that tripped them up, and stopping to argue,
though hardly in earnest, as to whether they had passed that way or not, when some white-barked
tree, or other landmark, loomed suddenly out of the thickening mist. Once it seemed the fog
was going to lift; Julia thought she saw the outline of a distant hill, but either it was closed
in again directly, or else she mistook a thicker fold of cloud for a more solid object, for
it was lost almost before she pointed it out.

For something over two hours they walked and stumbled, and went up small ascents and came down
small declines; then suddenly they came upon the white-barked tree again. It was the same one
that they had seen more than an hour and a half ago; Rawson-Clew recognised it by a peculiar
warty growth where the branches forked; they had now approached it from the other side, but
clearly it was the same one, and they had come round in a circle.

He stopped and pointed it out to her. "I am afraid," he said, "we had better do what is recommended
when the clouds come down on the mountains."

"And that is?" Julia asked.

"Sit down and wait till they shift."

She could not but see the advisability of this, also she was very tired, the going for these
two hours had not been easy, and it had come at the end of a long day. She would not admit,
even to herself, that she was tired, but she was, so she agreed to the waiting; after all,
it was impossible to pretend longer that they were going to get home easily, and were not really
hopelessly astray.

"We will go a little way in among the trees," Rawson-Clew said; "it is more sheltered, and
we shall be able to find the way quite as easily from one place as another when the fog lifts."

They found as sheltered a spot as they could, and sat down under a big tree; as they did so
his hand came in contact with Julia's wet sleeve and cold arm. "How cold you are!" he said.
"You have nothing on."

"Oh, yes, I have," she assured him. "I did not avail myself of your permission this morning."

He took off his coat and put it round her.

But she threw it off again. "That won't do at all," she said; "now you have nothing on, and
that is much more improper; women may sit in their shirt sleeves, men may not."

"Don't be absurd!" he said authoritatively; "you are to keep that on," and he wrapped it about
her with a decision that brought home to her her youth and smallness.

"You are shutting all the damp in," she protested, shifting her point of attack, "and that
is very unwholesome. I shan't get warm; I haven't any warmth to start with; you are wasting
what you have got to no purpose."

But he did not waste it, for eventually it was arranged that they sat close together under
the tree, with the coat put as far as it would go over both of them. Rawson-Clew was not given
to thinking how things looked, he did what he thought necessary, or advisable, without taking
any thought of that kind; so it did not occur to him how this arrangement might look to an
unprejudiced observer, had there been any such. But Julia, with her faculty for seeing herself
as others saw her, was much, though silently, amused as she thought of the Van Heigens. Poor,
kind folks, they were doubtless already wondering what could have become of her; if they could
only have seen her sitting thus, with an unknown man, what would their Dutch propriety have said?

"Do you suppose this fog will be in the town?" Rawson-Clew said, after a time.

"No," she answered, "I should think not; from what I have heard, I think it is very unlikely."

"Then the Van Heigens won't know what has become of you?"

"Not a bit in the world; they don't even know where I was going to-day. I did not tell them;
I am afraid they will be rather uneasy about me, but perhaps not so very much, they know by
this time I can take care of myself; besides, I shall be home before bed-time, if the fog lifts."

Rawson-Clew agreed, and they talked of other things. Julia held the opinion that when an evil
has to be endured, not cured, there is no good in discussing it over and over again; she had
a considerable gift for making the best of other things besides opportunities.

But the fog did not lift soon; it did not grow denser, but it did not grow less; it just lay
soft and chilly, casting a white pall of silence on all things, closing day before its time,
and making it impossible to say when evening ended and night began. Gradually the two who waited
for its lifting fell into silence, and Julia, tired out, at last dropped asleep, her head tilted
back against the tree-trunk, her shoulder pressed close against Rawson-Clew under the shelter
of his coat.

He did not move, he was afraid of waking her; he sat watching, waiting in the eerie white stillness,
until at last the space before him altered, and gradually between the trees he saw the faint
outline of a hill, dark against the dark sky. Slowly the white mist rolled from it, a billowy,
ghostly thing, that left a black, vague world, only dimly seen. He looked at the sleeping girl,
then at the hill; the fog was clearing, there was no doubt about that; soon it would be quite
gone, but it would be a very dark night, the stars would hardly show, and the moon was now
long down. He was not at all sure of being able to find his way across this undulating country,
so entirely devoid of prominent features, in a very dark night. Rather he was nearly sure that
he could not do it; and though he had a by no means low opinion of Julia's abilities, he did
not think that she could either. Also, with a sense of dramatic fitness equal to that of the
girl's he thought their arrival in the town would be rather ill-timed if they started now.
It would be wiser to wait till after it was light, though dawn was not so very early now, the
summer being far advanced. So he decided, and Julia slept peacefully on, her head dropping
lower and lower, till finally it reached his shoulder. But he did not move; he left it resting
there, and waited, thinking of nothing perhaps, or anything; or perhaps of that unknown quantity,
the natural man, which has a way of stirring sometimes even in the most civilised, at night
time. So he sat and watched for the dawn.

CHAPTER X

TO-MORROW

It was a bright sunny morning, and, though the third and last day of the fair, people went
to their business as usual. The Dutch are early risers, and set about their day's work in good
time; but even had they been the reverse, the latest of them would have been about before Julia
and Rawson-Clew reached the outskirts of the town. They had stopped for breakfast at the first
village they came to after leaving the Dunes, this on the principle of being hung for a sheep
rather than a lamb. It did not seem to matter being a little later considering the necessarily
unreasonable hour of their return; also Julia, with the instinct of her family for detail;
preferred to set herself to rights so as to present the best appearance possible when she arrived
at the Van Heigens'. It was not natural, of course, that a person should appear too neat and
orderly after a night of adventure, lost on the Dunes; but the reverse was not becoming. Julia
hit the medium between the two with a nicety which might have cost one not a Polkington some
thought, but to one of them was merely the natural thing.

Together Julia and Rawson-Clew walked to the outskirts of the town. Their ways parted there--his
to the left, hers to the right; it was the port of which she had thought yesterday, the place
of final separation. He had proposed to go with her to the Van Heigens, so as to bear testimony
to what had befallen, and to assure them that she was quite safe; but she would not have this,
she felt she could manage very much better without him, his presence would only require a good
deal of extra explanation, none too easy to give. He guessed the reason of her refusal and
saw the wisdom of it, although he felt annoyed that she had, as he now perceived she must,
concealed their earlier acquaintance. It might have been advisable, seeing Dutch notions of
propriety; but it placed the matter in a rather invidious light, and also began to bring home
to him the fact, which grew very much more evident before the day was over, that he had distinguished
himself by an act of really remarkable folly.

They had almost reached the town, in fact had passed some small houses, the dwelling-places
of carriage proprietors and washerwomen, when a girl stepped out of a doorway some distance
ahead of them. She glanced in their direction, then stared.

"There's Denah," Julia said; she did not speak with consternation though Denah was about the
last person she wanted to see just then. Consternation is a waste of time and energy when you
are found out, a bold face and immediate actions are usually best. Julia waved her hand in
cheerful greeting to the Dutch girl.

But Denah did not return the greeting; instead, after her stare of astonished recognition,
she turned and set off up the road towards where it joined a more important street with trams,
which ran into the town.

"Hulloah?" Julia said softly, and quick as thought she turned too, and the hand that had waved
to Denah was signaling to a carriage which at that moment drove out of a stable-yard near.
A light had come into her eyes, a dancing light like the gleam on a sword-blade. There was
a little wee smile about her lips, too, which somehow brought to Rawson-Clew's mind a man he
once knew who had sung softly to himself all the time he prepared for the brigands who were
known to be about to rush his camp.

"She'll take a tram," Julia said gaily, looking towards the speeding figure; "she is too careful
to waste her money even to spite any one of whom she is jealous."

The cab drew up, and Julia, not failing to see Denah fulfil her words at the junction of the
street, got in. Rawson-Clew followed her. She would have prevented him.

"Don't come," she said; "I don't want you. Good-bye."

But he insisted. "I certainly am coming," he said, and ordered the man to drive on into the
town, telling Julia to give the address.

She did so, weighing in her mind the while the chances of Rawson-Clew's knowledge of Dutch
being equal to following all that was said when three people spoke at once, all of them in
a great state of excitement. She thought it was possible he would not master every detail,
but at the same time she did not wish him to try; it would be insupportable to have him dragged
into this, and in return for his kindness to her have a dozen vulgar and ridiculous things
said and insinuated.

"Look here," she said, "there is not any need for you to come, I can do better without you,
I can indeed. I have got to explain things, of course, but, as I told you before, I have had
some practice at dodging and explaining. I shall reach the Van Heigens' before Denah, so I
shall get the first hearing, that's all I want, I can explain beautifully."

"You cannot explain me away," Rawson-Clew answered. "I know I was not to have figured in the
original account, that is obvious, but it is equally obvious that I must figure in this one.
I prefer to give it myself."

"Oh, but that won't do at all!" Julia said. "Please leave it to me, it would be nothing to
me, I am used to tight places, and it would be an insufferable annoyance to you. I really don't
want you to suffer for your kindness to me--you have no idea what absurd and ridiculous things
they will say."

Rawson-Clew had been polishing his eyeglass, he put it back in his eye before he spoke. "My
dear child," he said; "in spite of the sheltered life with which you credit me, I assure you
I have a very clear idea of the kind of things they will say."

"Then for goodness sake, leave it to me," Julia said, losing her temper; "I can do it a great
deal better than you can; I'm not honest, and you are, and that's a handicap."

"In these cases," Rawson-Clew answered imperturbably, "honesty requires the consideration of
the lady first and truth afterwards--a long way after. Let me know what you want told and I
will tell it--with evidence--I suppose you are equal to evidence?"

Julia laughed, but without much mirth. "I do wish you would not come," she said.

But he did, and they drove together through the town, past the bulb gardens, to the wooden
house with the dark-tiled roof. There Rawson-Clew paid the coachman and dismissed the carriage
while Julia rang the bell.

In time the servant came to the door. "Ach!" she cried at the sight of Julia, and, "G-r-r-r!"
and other exclamations, uttered very gutturally and with upraised hands. She was a country
girl from some remote district, and she spoke a very unintelligible patois; at least Rawson-Clew
found it so, his companion, apparently, was used to it.

Julia listened to the exclamations, and apparently to congratulations on her safe return, said
in a friendly manner that she had a terrible adventure, and then asked where Mevrouw was.

Mevrouw was out, and Mijnheer was out too; a torrent more information followed, but Julia did
not pay much attention to it, she turned to Rawson-Clew with the smile on her lips with which
she laughed at herself.

"Denah saved her money and won her move," she said; "it serves me right. I under-rated her--this
is what always comes of under-rating the enemy."

"Do you mean she knew where these people are?" Rawson-Clew asked.

"That is about it, she knew and I did not."

"What are you going to do?"

"Wait till they come back, there is nothing else."

He moved as if he thought to follow her into the house, but she did not approve of that. "You
cannot wait with me," she said; "it is one thing to bring me home, quite another to wait with
me here."

He, however, thought differently, but he did not argue the point. "Thank you," he said, "I
prefer to wait; I consider I am conducting this now, not you."

He was a little annoyed by her ridiculous persistence, but she looked at him with the dancing
lights coming back in her eyes. "Oh, well, if you prefer to wait," she said, "but I'm afraid
you must do it alone." And before he realised what she was doing, she had run off, down the
path, across an empty flower-bed and among some brushes behind.

In considerable anger he turned to follow her, but he pulled himself up; there was very little
use in that and no need for it either; he was sure she was far too skilful a tactician to imperil
an affair by unwise flight; this was a blind merely--unless, of course, she thought of setting
out to find these Dutch people, wherever they might be. He asked the staring servant where
her master and mistress were; it took time for him to make out her answers, but at last he
did. Mijnheer was at a place (or house) with a name he had never before heard, and would have
been puzzled to say now from this one hearing. It was a distant bulb farm, and Mijnheer had
gone there on business; the fact that Julia had not returned home naturally did not keep the
good man from his work. These details Rawson-Clew did not know; the name only was given to
him, and that conveyed nothing. Joost, he was told, was somewhere in the bulb gardens, where,
seemed unknown; Mevrouw was at the house of the notary. Who the notary was, and where he lived,
and why she had gone there were alike as obscure to this inquirer as was Julia's probable destination.
He felt that she might have set out to find any one of these three people, or she might be
lying in wait, like a foolish child, till he had gone. He went down the drive; outside the
gate he saw some idlers who had been there when he drove in a little while back; he asked them
if any one answering to the girl's description had come out. They told him "ja," and they also
told him which direction she had taken; it was the way that led to the market, not the residential
part of the town.

He was no better off for this information; there seemed nothing to be done. It would have been
little short of absurd, if, indeed, it had not been seriously compromising to Julia, for him
to present himself at the house of the notary--when he could find it--and tell Vrouw Van Heigen
he had brought Julia home and she was afraid to appear with him. Either he and she must act
together and appear together, or else he must, as she desired and now made necessary, keep
out of it altogether. Considerably annoyed with the girl, but at the same time uneasy about
her, he went to his hotel.

As the morning wore on, the annoyance lessened and the uneasiness grew. After all he was not
sure that Julia had thrown away much by refusing to have the support of his company; had they
two been there waiting for the Van Heigens' return, or had they set out together to find them,
he was not sure his presence would have been any help in the face of the jealous Dutch girl's
accusations. A jealous woman, even an ordinarily foolish one, is a very dangerous thing when
she is attacking a fancied rival with a chance of encompassing her overthrow. Denah would have
got her tale told, her case proven, indignation aroused and sympathy with her before the Van
Heigens even saw Julia. He wondered what she would do alone and wished he knew how she fared;
he thought over the explanations possible and the various ways out that might suggest themselves
to a fertile brain. They were not many, and they were not good; the simple truth would probably
be best, and that would be so exceedingly compromising under the circumstances that the Van
Heigens were hardly likely to find it palatable. Indeed, he began to see that, even if they
two could have presented themselves, as they had first intended, to the anxious family before
Denah arrived, it was very doubtful if the matter could have been satisfactorily cleared up
to a suspicious and prudish Dutch mind. The girl was only a companion, a person of no importance,
easy to replace; and, no matter how the fact might be explained, it still remained that she
had been out all night with an unknown man; one, who, if he were known, would show to be of
a position to make the proceeding more compromising still.

At this point Rawson-Clew got up and walked to the window. It was then that it struck him that
he had, in these his mature years, committed an act of stupendous folly, the like of which
his youth had never known.

But the girl, what would become of the girl? In England, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred,
she would have been dismissed; in Holland that one last hope did not exist. She would be dismissed
with her character considerably damaged and her chance of getting another situation entirely
gone. What would she do? She had told him yesterday she could not leave, but was obliged to
stay on at the Van Heigens'; although she had failed in the first object of her coming, and
so had no motive for remaining, she had nowhere else to go. Perhaps she had quarrelled with
her relatives; perhaps they could not afford to keep her--they were poor enough he knew. She
had once said her eldest sister had lately married the nephew of a bishop; he remembered that,
and he also remembered that, after his unfortunate visit to Captain Polkington, he had heard
they were people with some good connections. But that did not mean that they could afford to
help this girl, or would be delighted to receive her home under the present conditions. Rather
it indicated that their position was too precarious for them to be able to do it. They would
be bitterly hard on her--these aspiring people of gentle birth and doubtful shifts, clinging
to society by the skin of their teeth, were the hardest of all. The girl could not go back
to them; she could not get anything to do in Holland, or elsewhere--in Heaven's name what could
she do?

He asked himself the question with his hands in his pockets and his eyes on the street. But
the answer did not seem forthcoming.

There was no good blinking the matter; the fact was obvious; the girl was hopelessly and utterly
compromised; and he, aided certainly by untoward circumstances--for the sardonic interference
of which, in such circumstances, a man of sense usually allows--he had done it. They had had
their "holiday," without taking thought for the morrow, in the way approved by boys and dogs
and creatures without experience. And here was to-morrow, knocking at the door and demanding
the price--as experience showed that it usually did. The question was, who was going to pay,
he or she? She had taken it upon herself as a matter of course; it seemed natural to her that
the burden should be the woman's, but it did not seem so to him; among his people it was the
man who was expected, and who himself expected, to pay. When he had grasped the situation fully
and saw how she must inevitably stand he also saw at the same time and equally plainly, that
he must marry her; nothing else was possible.

He walked away from the window and began to search for writing materials. He could not go and
see her, it was out of the question under the circumstances; he would have to write, and, on
the whole, perhaps, it was easier that way. He sat down to the table, but he did not at once
begin, for between him and the paper there rose up the vision of a stately old Norfolk house.
It was his; he had not lived there for years, but he supposed he would some day; all his people
had; he remembered his grandfather there and his grandmother--a tall, stately woman, a woman
of parts. He thought of her, and his mother, a graceful, gracious woman--he thought of her
standing in the drawing-room between the long windows, receiving company. And then he thought
of Julia.

He turned away from the vision abruptly, and dated his letter. But soon he had lain down his
pen again. He was conservative, and Julia was not of the breed of the women he had recalled;
she had no kinship with them or their modern prototypes, one of whom he vaguely supposed he
should marry some day--when he went to live in the old Norfolk house. Hers was not a stately
or a gracious or an all pervading feminine presence; she demanded no court, no care, no carpet
for her way; she could come and go unnoticed and unattended; you could overlook her--though
she never overlooked you or anything else. She had her points certainly, she was loyal to the
core--she would be loyal to him, he was sure, in this scrape, with a silly wrong-headed loyalty,
more like a man's to a woman than a woman's to a man. She was loyal to her none too reputable
family--that family was a bitter thing to his pride of race. She was courageous, too, cheerfully
enduring, laughing in the face of disaster, patient when action was impossible and when it
was possible--he found himself smiling when he recalled her--surely there was never one more
gay, more ready, more steady, more quietly alert than she when there was a struggle with men
or matters in the wind. She had brains of a sort, there was no doubt of that; it was possible
to imagine one would not grow tired of her undiluted company as one would of the other sort
of woman. Only of course a man did not have the undiluted company of his wife--perhaps if he
were a small shop-keeper or an itinerant organ-grinder--if night and day they lived together
and worked together and looked out on the world together--if it was the simple life of which
she dreamed--

Rawson-Clew picked up his pen and began to write; it was not a case of whether he would or
would not, liked or disliked; he had simply to make a girl he had compromised the only restitution
in his power.

In the meantime Julia had set out for the market-place as the idlers had said. But her business
there did not take long and she was home again, as she intended, before Mevrouw got back from
the Snieders. But she had not been in much more than five minutes before the old lady, supported
by Vrouw Snieder and Denah, arrived. Mijnheer came home not long after, and, hearing news of
the return of the truant, went to the house to join the others.

Julia waited to receive the attack in the dim sitting-room. She knew as well as Rawson-Clew,
or better, that she had not a ghost of a chance of clearing herself; dismissal was inevitable;
that was why she went to the market-place. She had not largely assisted her family in living
by their wits without having those faculties in exceeding good working order; she had already
seen and seized the only thing open to her when the end should come. But the fact that she
knew how it would end did not prevent her from giving battle; the knowledge only made her change
her tactics, and, as there was no use in defending her position (and companion) she was able
to concentrate her forces in harassing the enemy.

In these circumstances it is not wonderful that Denah did not derive the satisfaction she expected
from the affair. Julia, unrepentant and reckless because of her known fate, unhampered by Rawson-Clew's
presence, and flatly declining to give any particulars about him, would have been an awkward
antagonist for one cleverer than the Dutch girl. Poor Denah lost her temper, and lost her head,
and lost control of her tongue and her tears. Julia did not lose anything, but again and again
winged shafts that went unerringly home. She was genuinely sorry to have upset and disappointed
Mevrouw, but for Denah she did not care in the least, and the old lady soon contrived to soften
some of the regret, for she was far too angry and shocked at the impropriety to have any gentler
feelings of sorrow or to believe what she was told. Vrouw Snieder acted principally as chorus
of horror; she was shocked and angry too, on Mevrouw's account and on her own and her daughter's;
she seemed to think they had all been outraged together.

When Mijnheer came in they were all talking at once and Denah was weeping copiously. Julia's
part in the conversation was small; she just shot a word in here and there, but apparently
never without effect, for her utterances, like drops of water on hot metal, were always followed
by fresh bursts of excitement. The good man tried in vain to make out what was the matter and
what had happened. At last, after his fifth effort elsewhere, he turned to Julia, and she told
him briefly. She told the truth, only suppressing Rawson-Clew's name and all details concerning
him, saying merely that he was a man she had met before she left England. The two elder sisters
gradually became silent to listen; Denah listened too, only sniffing occasionally.

"You pretended you did not know him the day we went the excursion," she said vindictively;
"I saw you; I knew you were not to be trusted then. Why did you pretend, and how do you know
him? He is a man of family; he has the air of it, very distinguished, and you are nothing at
all, nobody--"

"Hush!" said Mijnheer; "that is not the point; it is of no importance who the man may be, he
is a man, that is enough; and she was out with him--alone--a whole day and night; it is certainly
very bad indeed; shocking, if it is true--is it true?"

He looked at Julia, and she answered, "Yes."

She was sorry, very sorry, but more on his account than her own; she could see how heinous
he thought it, how she had fallen in his esteem, and she was sorry for it. But at the same
time she knew her conduct really had been no more than indiscreet; and she did not repent;
she regretted nothing but being found out, and that not so much as she ought now that the joy
of battle was upon her. As for the women, they suspected far worse than Mijnheer believed;
but even if they had not, if they had believed no more than the truth, that would have been
enough for condemnation; her offence--the real one--was past forgiveness; she must go. She
received the sentence meekly; she knew she deserved no less from these kind if narrow-minded
people. Denah smiled triumphantly; Julia felt she deserved that too; moreover, Denah's nose
was so pink and her face so swelled with tears, that the smile was more amusing than exasperating.

"I am sorry," she said; "I am sorry you should all have to think so ill of me, and that I should
deserve it. You have been very kind to me while I have been here, and made my service easy;
I am ashamed to have deceived you and behaved in such a way as you must condemn."

Unfortunately Vrouw Snieder snorted here; she did not believe in these protestations and she
said so, inducing Vrouw Van Heigen to do the same. Mijnheer looked doubtfully at Julia for
a moment, then he came to the conclusion that if she was not too abandoned a person to be really
repentant, it would be as well to take advantage of her professed state of mind and drive home
some moral lessons. Accordingly he and the two elder ladies drove them home, with the result
that Julia's regret dwindled to nothing.

"Mijnheer," she said at last, quietly yet effectually breaking in upon his words; "Mijnheer,
you are a very good man, Mevrouw is a virtuous woman, and Vrouw Snieder also, all of you. I
have often admired your goodness; when you were least conscious of it it preached to me, making
me ashamed of my wickedness. But now that you, in your goodness, have taken to preaching to
me yourselves, I am no longer ashamed, for it is clear that your goodness dares to do a thing
that no man's wickedness would; it turns the foolish and indiscreet into sinners and sinners
into devils; it makes the way of wrong-doing very easy. You are so good," she went on, putting
aside an interruption; "perhaps you do not know wickedness when you see it; you cannot distinguish
between sin and sin; you are like those who would hang a man for stealing bread as soon as
for killing a child. What! Are you indignant, Mevrouw, at such a charge? Are you not turning
out, with no character and no chance--a good enough imitation of hanging--a girl who has been
no more than foolish, just the same as if she had committed the greatest sin?"

Vrouw Heigen broke in angrily, and Vrouw Snieder and Denah, inexpressibly shocked; Mijnheer
was also shocked, but he, and they too, were vaguely uneasy under the reproach. Julia was satisfied;
more especially as her experience of them led her to expect they would, though never persuaded
they had made a mistake, yet feel more uneasy by and by.

She rose from her chair. "Yes," she said, "it is a shame to speak of such things, as you observe;
do not let us speak of them any more. Perhaps Mijnheer you would like to pay me, then I can go."

Mijnheer agreed rather hastily; then, realising the suddenness of the step, he paused with
his purse in his hand. "But can you go now?" he asked. "Nothing is arranged; you had better
wait a day or two."

"No," Julia answered, "I think not; it would be well to get the thing over and done with; you
would rather and so would I."

No one contradicting this, Mijnheer counted the money and gave it to Julia.

"Thank you," she said; "now I will set the table for coffee drinking. You will stay, of course,
Mevrouw," she went on, turning to Vrouw Snieder--"and Miss Denah, that will be two extra--Mijnheer
Joost will be in, Denah; you can tell him about it."

Denah flushed indignantly, and Vrouw Snieder could only say "You--You--"

"Oh, I will not sit down with you, of course," Julia answered sweetly; "I will take my coffee
in the little room; is it not so, Mevrouw?"

Vrouw Van Heigen nodded; she did not know what else to do, and Julia went away, leaving them
as awkward and at a loss for words as if they were the delinquents, not she. Denah felt this
and resented it; the elders felt it too, and for a moment or two looked at one another ill
at ease. However, in a little they recovered and began to talk over Julia and her wrong doings
till they felt quite comfortable again. Denah did not join very much in the discussion; after
she had once again, by request, repeated what she had seen and what deduced therefrom, she
was left rather to herself. She went to the window and sat there looking out for Joost; he
was certain to come in soon, and she found consolation in the thought. Joost, the model of
modesty and decorous serious propriety, would know the English girl in her true colours now,
and be justly disgusted and shocked to think that he had ever ridden beside her on a merry-go-round.

Just then Julia passed carrying a tray of cups. "Denah," she said, pitching her voice soft
and low in the tone the Dutch girl hated most, "I will give you a piece of advice; take care
how you tell Joost about my wickedness; you want to be ever so clever to abuse another girl
to a man; it is one of the most difficult things in the world--and you are not very clever,
you know, not even clever enough to take my advice."

Denah was not clever enough to take the advice nor in any humour to do so; she stared angrily
at Julia, who unconcernedly put the cups on the table and vanished into the kitchen.

Joost came in for coffee drinking, and the whole party with one accord told him the tale; Julia
heard them through the closed door as she sat sipping her coffee in the little room. She did
not hear him say anything at all except just at first, "I won't believe it!" in a tone which
roused again, and with added strength, the regret she had felt before for repaying belief and
kindness by such disillusioning. Afterwards he seemed to say nothing more; presumably they
had convinced him with overwhelming evidence. She wondered how he looked; she could picture
his serious blue eyes uncomfortable well; poor Joost, who had such high opinions of her, who
thought she, seeing the low, chose the high path always in the greatness of her knowledge and
strength; who had called her a lantern, sometimes dimmed, but always a beacon! The lantern
was obscured just now, very badly obscured. She rose and went up to her room; she would clear
the table after Joost had gone back to work.

She did so, coming down when he and Mijnheer were safely in the office. When she had done she
went to Mevrouw, who had betaken herself to her room worn out by the morning's excitement.

"Would you prefer that I went at once?" she inquired, "or that I waited till after dinner?
I will stay till six if you wish it, or I will go now without waiting to attend to the dinner."

Vrouw Van Heigen preferred the waiting; it would be so very much better for the dinner, and
really it hardly seemed as if propriety could suffer much; accordingly she said with what dignity
she could that the girl had better stay till the evening.

Julia went down-stairs again and set to work preparing the dinner, and it was perhaps only
natural that she took pains to make that dinner a memorably good one. It was while she was
busy in the kitchen that a note was brought to her.

"Put it on the table," she said to the servant girl; her hands just then were too floury to
take it, but she looked at it as it lay on the table beside her. She did not recognise the
writing, though she saw at once that it was not that of a Dutchman. "Who brought it?" she asked,
beginning to clean her hands.

The servant could not say, but from her description Julia gathered that it must have been a
special messenger of some sort. On hearing this, she did not trouble to clean her hands any
more, but opened the letter at once, making floury finger-prints upon it.

     "DEAR MISS POLKINGTON, (it ran),

     "There is one subject I did not mention to you yesterday;
     you might perhaps have thought it too serious for holiday
     consideration; nevertheless, it is a question that I feel I
     must ask before I leave Holland. Will you do me the honour
     of becoming my wife? I know there is rather a difference in
     years between us, but if you can overlook the discrepancy,
     and consent, you will give me the utmost satisfaction. I
     honestly believe it will make for the happiness of us both;
     I have a feeling that we were meant to continue our
     'excursion' together.

                                         "Very sincerely yours,

                                               "H. F. RAWSON-CLEW."

So Julia read, and sat down suddenly on the flour barrel. She turned to the beginning of the
letter and read it through again, and when she looked up her eyes were shining with admiration.
"I am glad!" she said aloud, but in English, "I am glad he has done it! It's splendid, splendid!
I never thought of it--but then I don't believe I knew what a real gentleman was before!"

The maidservant started at her curiously; she could not understand a word, but she saw that
the letter gave pleasure, for which she was glad; she liked Julia, and was very sorry she was
going in disgrace; she herself had occasional lapses from rectitude and so consequently had
a fellow feeling.

"You have a good letter?" she asked.

"Very good," Julia said; "but we must get on with the cooking; I will answer it by and by."

Julia put it in her pocket after another glance, purring to herself in English, "It is so well
done, too," she said; "never a word of to-day, only of yesterday--yesterday!" and she laughed
softly.

There is no doubt about it, if Julia had got to receive a death sentence she would have liked
it to be well given; it is quite possible, had she lived at the time, she would have been one
of those who objected to the indignity of riding in the tumbrils quite as much as to the guillotine
at the end of the ride.

She finished the preparations for dinner, got her pots and pans all nicely simmering and her
oven at the right heat; then, giving some necessary directions, she left the servant to watch
the cooking and went up to her own room. There she at once proceeded to answer the letter--

     "DEAR MR. RAWSON-CLEW, (she wrote),

     "I am as glad as anything that you have done it; I never for
     a moment thought of it myself, though I ought, for it is
     just like you; thank you ever so much.

     "Please don't bother about me, I am all right and have
     arranged capitally."

     Here she turned over his letter to see how he had signed
     himself and, seeing, signed in  imitation--

                                         "Yours very sincerely,

                                               "JULIA POLKINGTON."

"I wonder what his name is?" she speculated; "H. F.--H.--Henry, Horace--I shouldn't think he
had a name people called him by."

She read her own letter through, and as she was folding it stopped; it occurred to her that
he might think courtesy demanded a formal refusal of his proposal. It was, of course, quite
unnecessary; the refusal went without saying; she would no more have dreamed of accepting his
quixotic offer than he would have dreamed of avoiding the necessity of making it; the one was
as much a sine quâ non to her as the other was to him. From which it would appear that in some
ways at least their notions of honour were not so many miles apart.

She flattened her letter again; perhaps he would think the definite word more polite, so she
added a postscript--

     "Of course this means no. I am sorry we can't go on with the
     excursion, but we can't, you know. The holiday is over; this
     is 'to-morrow,' so good-bye."

After that she fastened the envelope, and a while later went out to post it. As she went up
the drive she caught sight of Joost some distance away in the gardens; his face was not towards
her, and she congratulated herself that he had not seen her. However, the congratulations were
premature; when she came back from the post she found him standing just inside the gate waiting
for her, obviously waiting. At least it was obvious to her; she had caught people herself before
now, and so recognised that she was caught too plainly to uselessly attempt getting away.

"Do you want to hear what happened yesterday?" she asked, with an effrontery she did not feel.
"I expect Denah has told you all, perhaps a little more than all, still, enough of it was true."

"I want to speak to you," he said, and parted the high bushes that bordered the left of the drive.

Julia reluctantly enough, but feeling that she owed him what explanation was possible, went
through. Behind the bushes there was a small enclosed space used for growing choice bulbs;
it was empty now, the sandy soil quite bare and dry; but it was very retired, being surrounded
by an eight foot hedge with only one opening besides the way by which they had come in through
the looser-growing bushes. Julia made her way down to the opening; with her practical eye for
such things, she recognised that it would be the best way of escape, just as the loose-growing
bushes offered the likeliest point of attack. This, of course, did not matter to her, she being
in the case of "he who is down," but it might matter a good deal to Joost if his father looked
through the bushes, and he would never know how to take care of himself.

"Well?" she said, when she had taken up this discreet position. But as he did not seem ready
she went on, "I really don't think there is anything to say; I did wrong yesterday, not quite
as much wrong as your mother and Denah think, still wrong--what my own people would have disapproved,
at least if it were found out; that's the biggest crime on their list--and what I knew your
people would condemn utterly. I am afraid I have no excuse to offer; I knew what I was doing,
and I did it with my eyes open. I did not see any harm in it myself but I knew other people
would, so I meant to say nothing. I had deceived your parents before, and I meant to keep on
doing it. You know I had walked with that man lots of times before yesterday; all the time
your mother thought me so good to visit your cousin I really enjoyed doing it because I walked
with him."

"Do you love him?" The question was asked low and almost jerkily.

"Love him?" Julia said in surprise; "no, of course not. That is where the difference comes
in, I believe; you all seem to think there is nothing but love and love-making and kissing
and cuddling. I have just liked talking to him and I suppose he liked talking to me, as you
might some friend, or Denah some girl she knew. We never thought about love and all that; we
couldn't, you know; he belongs to a different lot from what I do. Do you understand?"

"Yes, I understand," he answered, and there was a vibrant note in his voice which was new to
her. "I understand that it is you who are right and we who are wrong--you who know good and
evil and can choose, we who suspect and think and hint, believing ill when there is none. Rather
than send you away, we should ask your forgiveness!"

"You should do nothing of the kind," Julia said decidedly, beginning to take alarm. "I may
not have been wrong in quite the way your parents think, but I was wrong all the same. I am
not good, believe me; I am not as you are. Look at me, I am bad inwardly, and really I am what
you would condemn and despise."

She was standing in the afternoon sunlight, dark, slim, alert, intensely alive, full of a twisty
varied knowledge, a creature of another world. She felt that he must know and recognise the
gulf between if only he would look fairly at her.

He did look fairly, but he recognised only what was in his own mind.

"You are to me a beacon--" he began.

But she, realising at last that Denah's jealousy was not after all without foundations, cut
him short.

"I am not a beacon," she said, "before you take me for a guiding light you had better hear
something about me. Do you know why I came here? I will tell you--it was to get your blue daffodil!"

He stared at her speechless, and she found it bad to see the surprise and almost uncomprehending
pain which came into his face, as into the face of a child unjustly smitten. But she went on
resolutely: "I heard of it in England, that it was worth a lot of money--and I wanted money--so
I came here; I meant to get a bulb and sell it."

"You meant to?" he said slowly; "but you haven't--you couldn't?"

"I could, six times over if I liked."

"But you have not."

"No. I was a fool, and you were--Oh, I can't explain; you would never understand, and it does
not matter. The thing that matters is that I came here to get your blue daffodil."

"You must have needed money very greatly," he said in a puzzled, pitying voice.

"I did, I wanted it desperately, but that does not matter either--I came here to steal; I go
away because I am found out to have deceived and to have behaved improperly--I want you to
understand that."

"I do not understand," he answered; "I understand nothing but that you are you, and--and I
love you."

"You don't!" she cried in sharp protest. "You do not, and you cannot! You think you love what
you think I am. But I am not that; it is all quite different; when you, know, when you realise,
you will see it."

"I realise now," he answered; "it is still the light, only sometimes dim."

"Dim!" she repeated, "it has gone out!"

"And if it has, what then? If you are all you say you are, and all they say you are, and many
worse things besides, what then? It makes no difference."

He spoke with the curious quietness with which he always spoke of what he was quite sure. But
she drew back against the hedge, clasping her hands together, her calmness all gone. "Oh, what
have I done! What have I done!" she said, overcome with pity and remorse.

He drew a step nearer, misinterpreting the emotion. "I will take care of you," he said. "Will
you not let me take care of you?"

She looked up, and though her eyes were full of tears he might have read his answer there,
in her recovered calmness, in the very gentleness of her manner. "You cannot," she said sadly;
"you couldn't possibly do it. Don't you see that it is impossible? Your parents, the people--"

"That is of no importance," he answered; "my parents would very soon see you in your true light,
and for the rest--what does it matter? If you will marry me I--"

"But Joost, I can't! Don't you feel yourself that I can't? We are not only of two nations--that
is nothing--but we are almost of two races; we are night and day, oil and water, black and
white. It would never do; we should be on the outskirts of each other's lives, you would never
know mine, and though I might know yours, I could never really enter in."

"That is nothing," he said, "if you love."

"It is everything," she answered, "if two people do not talk the same language, soul language,
I mean."

"They will learn it if they love--but you do not? Is it that, tell me. Ah, yes, you do, a little,
little bit! Only a little, so that you hardly know it, but it is enough--if you have the least
to give that would do; I would do all the rest; I would love you; I would stand between you
and the whole world; in time it would come, in time you would care!"

He had come close to her now; in his eagerness he pressed against her, and, earnestness overcoming
diffidence, he almost ventured to take her hand in his. She felt herself inwardly shrink from
him with the repulsion that young wild animals feel at times for mere contact. But outwardly
she did not betray it; pity for him kept nature under control.

"I cannot," she said very gently; "I can never care."

Then he knew that he had his answer, and there was no appeal; he drew back a pace, and because
he never said one word of regret, or reproach, or pleading, her heart smote her.

"I am so sorry!" she said; "I am so sorry. Oh, why is everything so hard! Joost, dear Joost,
you must not mind; I am not half good enough for you; I'm not, indeed. Please forget me and--let
me go."

And with that she turned and fled into the house.

The maidservant in the kitchen was minding the pots; it still wanted some while to dinner time;
she did not expect the English miss would come yet, probably not till it was necessary to dish
up. The letter, of course, would have occupied her some time; she had gone out probably to
meet the writer--the maid never for a moment doubted him to be the sharer of yesterday's escapade.
She heard Julia come in, and judged the meeting to have been a pleasant one, as it had taken
time. She had gone up-stairs now, doubtless to pack her things; that would occupy her till
almost dinner time.

It did, for she did not begin directly, but sat on her bed instead, doing nothing for a time.
But when she did begin, she went to work methodically, folding garments with care and packing
them neatly; her heart ached for Joost and for the tangle things were in, but that did not
prevent her attending to details when she once set to work. At last she had everything done,
even her hat and coat ready to put on when dinner should be over. Then, after a final glance
round to see that she had left nothing but the charred fragments of Rawson-Clew's letter, she
went down-stairs and got the dinner ready.

She did not take her meal with the family, but again had it in the little room. She brought
the dishes to and fro from the kitchen, however, so she passed close to Joost once or twice
and saw his grave face and serious blue eyes, as she had seen them every day since her first
coming. And when she looked at him, and saw him, his appearance, his small mannerisms, himself
in fact, a voice inside her cried down the aching pity, saying, "I could not do it, I could
not do it!" But when she was alone in the little room with the door shut between, the pity
grew strong again till it almost welled up in tears. Poor Joost! Poor humble, earnest, unselfish
Joost! That he should care so, that he should have set his hopes on her, his star--a will-o'-wisp
of devious ways! That he should ache for this unworthy cause, and for it shut his eyes to the
homely happiness which might have been his!

She rose quickly and went up-stairs to get her hat and jacket. Soon after, the carriage, which
she had extravagantly ordered, came, and she called the servant to help her down with her luggage.
They got it down the narrow staircase between them and into the hall; Julia glanced back at
the white marble kitchen for the last time, and at the dim little sitting-room. Vrouw Van Heigen
was there, very much absorbed in crochet; but she had left the door ajar so that she might
know when Julia went, and that must have occupied a prominent place in her mind, for she made
a mistake at every other stitch.

"Good-bye, Mevrouw," Julia said.

Vrouw Van Heigen grunted; she remembered what was due to herself and propriety.

"And, oh," Julia looked back to say as she remembered it, "don't forget that last lot of peach-brandy
we made, it was not properly tied down; you ought to look at the covers some time this week."

"Ah, yes," said the old lady, forgetting propriety, "thank you, thank you, I'll see to it;
it will never do to have that go; such fine peaches too."

Then Julia went out and got into the carriage. Mijnheer was in his office; he did not think
it quite right to come to see her start either; all the same he came to the door to tell the
driver to be careful not to go on the grass. Joost came also and looked over his father's shoulder,
and Julia, who had been amused at Vrouw Van Heigen, suddenly forgot this little amusement again.

Joost left his father. "I will tell the man," he said. "I will go after him too and shut the
gate; it grows late for it to be open."

The carriage had already started, and he had to hurry after it; even then he did not catch
it up till it was past the bend of the drive. Then the man saw him and pulled up, though it
is doubtful if he got any order or, indeed, any word. Julia had been looking back, but from
the other side; and because she had been looking back and remembering much happiness and simplicity
here, she was so grieved for one at least who dwelt here that her eyes were full of tears.

Joost saw them when, on the stopping of the carriage, she turned. "Do not weep," he said; "you
must not weep for me."

"I am so sorry," she said; "so dreadfully sorry!"

"But you must not be," he told her; "there is no need."

"There is every need; you have been so kind to me, so good; you have almost taught me--though
you don't know it--some goodness too, and in return I have brought you nothing but sadness."

"Ah, yes, sadness," he said; "but gladness too, and the gladness is more than the sadness.
Would you not sooner know the fine even though you cannot attain to it, than be content with
the little all your life? I would, and it is that which you have given me. It is I who give
nothing--"

He hesitated as if for a moment at a loss, and she had no words to fill in the pause.

"Will you take this?" he said, half thrusting something forward. "It is, perhaps, not much
to some, but I would like you to have it; it seems fitting; I think I owe it to you, and you
to it."

"Oh, yes, yes," she murmured, hardly hearing and not grasping the last words; there was something
choking in her throat; it was this strange, humble, disinterested love, so new to her, which
brought it there and prevented her from understanding.

She stretched out her hands, and he put something into them; then he stepped back, and the
carriage drove on. It was not till the gateway was passed that she realised what it was she
held--a small bag made of the greyish-brown paper used on a bulb farm; inside, a single bulb;
and outside, written, according to the invariable custom of growers--

     "Narcissus Triandrus Azureum Vrouw Van Heigen."

CHAPTER XI

A REPRIEVE

Rawson-Clew was reading a letter. It was breakfast time; the letter had missed the afternoon
post yesterday, which was what the writer would have wished, and so was not delivered at the
hotel till the morning. It was short, from the beginning--"I am so glad you have done it,"
to the end of the postscript--"this is to-morrow, so good-bye." There was not much to read;
yet he looked at it for some time. Did ever man receive such a refusal to an offer of marriage?
It was almost absurd, and perhaps hardly flattering, yet somehow characteristic of the writer;
Rawson-Clew recognised that now, though it had surprised him none the less. What was to be
done next? See the girl, he supposed, and hear what she proposed to do; she wrote that she
had arranged "capitally," but she did not say what. He was quite certain she was not going
to remain with the Van Heigens; if by some extraordinary accident she had been able to bring
that about, she would certainly have told him so triumphantly. He could not think of anything
"capital" she could have arranged; he was persuaded, either that she only said it to reassure
him, or else, if she believed it, it was in her ignorance of the extent of the damage done
yesterday. He must go and see her, hear what she had planned, and what further trouble she
was thinking to get herself into, and prevent it in the only way possible; and there was only
one way, there was absolutely no other solution of the difficulty; she must marry him, and
there was an end of it. He glanced at her refusal again, and liked it in spite of its absurdity;
after all, perhaps it would have been better if he had been frank too; one could afford to
dispense with the delicate conventions that he associated with women in dealing with this girl.
He wished he had gone to her and spoken freely, as man to man, saying plainly that since they
had together been indiscreet, they must together take the consequence, and make the best of
it--and really the best might be very good.

Soon after he had finished breakfast he set out for the Van Heigens' house. But as yet, though
he had some comprehension of Julia, he had not fully realised the promptness of action which
necessity had taught her. When he reached the Van Heigens' she had been gone some sixteen hours.

It was Vrouw Van Heigen who told him; she was in the veranda when he arrived, and so, perforce,
saw him and answered his inquiries. It was evident, at the outset, that neither his appearance
nor name conveyed anything to her; she had not seen him the day of the excursion, and Denah's
description, purposely complicated by a cross description of Julia's, had conveyed nothing,
and his name had never transpired. He saw he was unknown, and recognised Julia's loyal screening
of him, not with any satisfaction; evidently it was part of her creed to stand between a man
(father or otherwise) and the consequence of his acts. That was an additional reason for finding
her and explaining that he, unlike Captain Polkington, was not used to anything of the sort.

"She has gone?" he said, in answer to Vrouw Van Heigen's brief information. The old lady was
decidedly nervous of the impressive Englishman who had come asking after her disgraced companion;
she moved her fat hands uneasily even before he asked, "Where has she gone? Perhaps you would
be kind enough to give me her address?"

"I cannot," she was obliged to say; "I have not it. I do not know where she is."

Rawson-Clew stared. "But surely," he said, "you are mistaken? She was here yesterday."

"Yes, yes; I know. But she is not here now; she went last night in haste. I will tell you about
it. You are a friend? Come in."

Without waiting, she led him into the drawing-room, and there left him in some haste. The room
struck him as familiar; he wondered why, until he remembered that it must have been Julia's
description which made him so well acquainted with it. It was all just as she described; the
thick, dark-coloured carpet, with the little carefully-bound strips of the same material laid
over it to make paths to the piano, the stove, and other frequented spots. The highly-polished
furniture, upholstered in black and yellow Utrecht velvet, the priceless Chinese porcelain
brought home by old Dutch merchants, and handed down from mother to daughter for generations;
the antimacassars of crochet work, the snuff-coloured wall-paper, the wonderful painted tiles
framed in ebony that hung upon it. It was all just as she had said; the very light and smell
seemed familiar, she must somehow have given him an idea of them too.

Just then Vrouw Van Heigen came back, and her husband with her; she had been to fetch him,
not feeling equal to dealing with the visitor alone. Mijnheer, by her request, had put on his
best coat, but he still had his spectacles pushed upon his forehead, as they always were when
he was disturbed in the office.

There was a formal greeting--one never dispensed with that in Holland, then Mijnheer said,
"You are, I suppose, a friend of Miss Polkington's father?"

Rawson-Clew, remembering the winter day at Marbridge, answered, "I am acquainted with him."

Mijnheer nodded. "Yes, yes," he said; then, "it is very sad, and much to be regretted. I cannot
but give to you, and through you to her father, very bad news of Miss Polkington. She is not
what we thought her; she has disgraced--"

But here Rawson-Clew interrupted, but in the quiet, leisurely way which was so incomprehensible
to the Hollanders. "My dear sir," he said, "please spare yourself the trouble of these details;
I am the man with whom Miss Polkington had the misfortune to be lost on the Dunes."

Vrouw Van Heigen gasped; the gentle, drawling voice, the manner, the whole air of the speaker
overwhelmed her, and shattered all her previous thoughts of the affair. With Mijnheer it was
different; right was right, and wrong wrong to him, no matter who the persons concerned might be.

"Then, sir," he said, growing somewhat red, "I am glad indeed that I cannot tell you where she is."

Rawson-Clew looked up with faint admiration, righteous indignation, or at all events the open
expression of it, was a discourtesy practically extinct with the people among whom he usually
lived. He felt respect for the old bulb grower who would be guilty of it.

"I am sorry you should think so badly of me," he said; "I can only assure you that it is without
reason. You do not believe me? I suppose it is quite useless for me to say that my sole motive
in seeking Miss Polkington is a desire to prevent her from coming to any harm?"

"She will, I should think, come to less harm without you than with you," Mijnheer retorted;
and Rawson-Clew, seeing as plainly as Julia had yesterday, the impossibility of making the
position clear, did not attempt it.

"I hope you may be right," he said, "but I am afraid she will be in difficulties. She had little
money, and no friends in Holland, and was, I have reason to believe, on such terms with her
family that it would not suit her to return to England."

"Ah, but she must have gone to England!" Vrouw Van Heigen cried. "She went away in a carriage
as one does when one goes to the station to start on a journey."

"She received letters from her family," Mijnheer said sturdily, "not frequently, but occasionally;
there was not, I think, any quarrel or disagreement. She must certainly have set out to return
home last night. If not, and if she had nowhere to go, why should she leave as she did yesterday?
We did not say 'go!' we were content that she should remain several days, until her arrangements
could be made."

"She might not have cared for that," Rawson-Clew suggested; "if you insinuated to her the sort
of things you did to me; women do not like that, as a rule, you know."

All the same, as he said this, he could not help thinking Mijnheer right; Julia must have had
somewhere to go. Her dignity and feelings were not of the order to lose sight of essentials
in details, or to demand unreasonable sacrifice of common sense. She must have had some destination
in view when she left the Van Heigens yesterday, and, as far as he could see, there was no
destination open to her but home.

Mijnheer was firmly of this opinion, although, now that a question about it had been suggested
to him, he wished he had made sure before the girl left. Of course, her plans and destination
were no business of his--she might even have refused to give information about them on that
account; he had dismissed her in disgrace, what she did next was not his concern. But in spite
of her bad behaviour he had liked her; and though his notions of propriety, and consequent
condemnation of her, had undergone no change, he was kind-heartedly anxious she should come
to no harm. Her words about some good people making the merely indiscreet into sinners came
back to him, but he would not apply them; Julia had gone home, he was sure of it, and a good
thing too; the Englishman with the quiet voice and the grand manner could not follow her there
to her detriment. Though, to be sure, it was strange that such a man as he should want to;
he was not the kind of person Mijnheer had expected the partner in the escapade to be; truly
the English were a strange people, very strange. His wife agreed with him on that point; they
often said so afterwards--in fact, whenever they thought of the disgraced companion, who was
such an excellent cook.

As for Rawson-Clew, he returned to England; there was nothing to keep him longer in Holland.
But as he was still not sure how Julia's "capital arrangement" was going to be worked out,
and was determined to bear his share of the burden, he decided to go to Marbridge on an early
opportunity.

The opportunity did not occur quite so soon as he expected; several things intervened, so that
he had been home more than a week before he was able to fulfil his intention. Marbridge lies
in the west country, some considerable distance from London; Rawson-Clew did not reach it till
the afternoon, at an hour devoted by the Polkingtons most exclusively to things social. It
is to be feared, however, that he did not consider the Polkingtons collectively at all; it
was Julia, and Julia alone, of whom he was thinking when he knocked at the door of No. 27 East
Street.

The door was opened by a different sort of servant from the one who had opened it to him the
last time he came; rather a smart-looking girl she was, with her answers quite ready.

"Miss Julia Polkington was not at home," she said, and, in answer to his inquiry when she was
expected, informed him that she did not know.

"There is no talk of her coming home, sir," she said; "she is abroad, I think; she has been
gone some time."

"Since when?"

The girl did not know. "In the spring, I think, sir," she said; "she has not been here all
the summer."

Then, it seemed, his first suspicion was correct; Julia had not gone home; for some reason
or another she was not able to return.

"Is Captain Polkington in?" he asked.

He was not; there was no one at home now; but Mrs. Polkington would be in in about an hour.
The maid added the last, feeling sure her mistress would be sorry to let such a visitor slip.

But Rawson-Clew did not want to see Mrs. Polkington; she, he was nearly sure, represented the
aspiring side of the family, not the one to whom Julia would turn in straits. The improved
look of the house and the servant suggested that the family was hard at work aspiring just
now, and so less likely than ever to be ready to welcome the girl, or anxious to give true
news of her if they had any to give. Captain Polkington, who no one could connect with the
ascent of the social ladder, might possibly know something; at all events, there was a better
chance of it, and he certainly could very easily be made to tell anything he did know.

"When do you expect Captain Polkington home?" he asked.

"Not for a month or more, I believe, sir," was the answer; "he is in London just now."

Rawson-Clew asked for his address; it occurred to him that Julia might have gone to her father;
it really seemed very probable. He got the address in full, and went away, but without leaving
any name to puzzle and tantalise Mrs. Polkington. Of course she was puzzled and tantalised
when the maid told her of the visitor. From past experience, she expected something unpleasant
of his coming, even though the description sounded favourable; but, as she heard no more of
it, she forgot all about him in the course of time.

It was on the next afternoon that Rawson-Clew drove to 31 Berwick Street. There are several
Berwick Streets in London, and, though the address given was full enough for the postal authorities,
the cabman had some difficulty in finding it, and went wrong before he went right. It was a
dingy street, and not very long; it had an unimportant, apologetic sort of air, as if it were
quite used to being overlooked. The houses were oldish, and very narrow, so that a good many
were packed into the short length; the pavement was narrow, too, and so were the windows; they,
for the most part, were carefully draped with curtains of doubtful hue. Some were further guarded
from prying eyes by sort of gridirons, politely called balconies, though, since the platform
had been forgotten, and only the protecting railings were there hard up against the glass,
the name was deceptive.

The hansom came slowly down the street, the driver scanning the frequent doors for 31. He overlooked
it by reason of the fact that the number had been rubbed off, but finally located it by discovering
most of the numbers above and below. Rawson-Clew got out and rang. In course of time--rather
a long time--the door was opened to him by the landlady--that same landlady who had confided
to Mr. Gillat the desirability of having a good standing with the butcher.

"Cap'ain Polkington?" she said, in answer to Rawson-Clew's inquiry. "I don't know whether he's
in or not; you'd better go up and see; one of 'em's there, anyhow."

She stood back against the wall, and Rawson-Clew came in.

"Up-stairs," she said; "second door you come to."

With that she went down to the kitchen regions; she was no respecter of persons, and she thanked
God she had plenty of her own business to mind, and never troubled herself poking into other
people's. Consequently, though she might wonder what a man of Rawson-Clew's appearance should
want with her lodgers, she did not let it interfere with her work, or take the edge off her
tongue in the heated argument she held with the milkman, who came directly after.

Rawson-Clew found his way up the stairs; they were steep, and had rather the appearance of
having been omitted in the original plan of the house, and squeezed in as an afterthought,
when it was found really impossible to do without. There was no window to give light to them,
or air either; hence, no doubt, the antiquity of the flavour of cabbage and fried bacon with
hung about them. But Rawson-Clew, when he ascended, found the second door without trouble;
there was not room to get lost. He knocked; he half expected to hear Julia's voice; it seemed
to him probable that she was the person referred to as "one of them." But it was a man who
bade him enter, and, unless his memory played him false, not Captain Polkington.

It was not the Captain, it was Johnny Gillat. He was reading the newspaper--Captain Polkington
had it in the morning, he in the afternoon; he wore, or attempted to (they fell off rather
often), very old slippers indeed, and a coat of surprising shabbiness which he reserved for
home use. For a moment he stared at his visitor in astonishment, and Rawson-Clew apologised
for his intrusion. "I was looking for Captain Polkington," he said. "I was told he was probably
here."

"Ah!" Mr. Gillat exclaimed, his face lighting into a smile. "Of course, of course! Captain
Polkington's out just now, but he'll be in soon. Come in, won't you; come in and wait for him."

He hospitably dragged forward the shabby easy-chair. "Try that, won't you?" he said. "It's
really comfortable--not that one, that's a little weak in the legs; it ought to be put away;
it's deceptive to people who don't know it."

He pushed the offending chair against the wall, his slippers flapping on his feet, so that
he thought it less noticeable to surreptitiously kick them off. "My name's Gillat," he went
on. "Captain Polkington is an old friend of mine."

"Mr. Gillat?" Rawson-Clew said. He remembered the name, and something Julia had said about
the bearer of it. It was he who had given her the big gold watch she wore, and he of whom she
had seemed fond, in a half-protecting, half-patient way, that was rather inexplicable--at least
it was till he saw Mr. Gillat.

"Perhaps," Rawson-Clew said, "you can tell me what I want to know--it is about Miss Julia Polkington.
I met her in Holland during the summer."

He may have thought of giving some idea of intimacy, or of explaining his interest; but, if
so, he changed his mind; anything of the kind was perfectly unnecessary to Mr. Gillat, who
did not dream of questioning his reason.

"Ah, yes," he said; "Julia is in Holland; she has been there a long time."

"Is she there still?" Rawson-Clew asked. "Can you give me her address?"

"Well," Johnny said regretfully, "not exactly. But she is abroad somewhere," the last with
an increase of cheerfulness, as if to indicate that this was something, at all events.

"You don't know where she is?" Rawson-Clew inquired. "Does her father? I suppose he does--some
one must."

"No," Johnny said. "No; I'm afraid not. Certainly her father does not, nor her mother--none
of us know; but, as you say, somebody must know--the people she is with, for instance."

Rawson-Clew grew a little impatient. "Do you mean," he said, "that her family are content to
know nothing of her whereabouts? Have they taken no steps to find her?"

"Well, you see," Johnny answered slowly, "there aren't any steps to take. They don't want to
find her; she is quite well and happy, no doubt, and she will come back when she is ready.
Mrs. Polkington--do you know Mrs. Polkington? A wonderful woman! She is very busy just now,
she is shining. Miss Chèrie is quite a belle. They really have not--have not accommodation
for Julia; it is not, of course, that they don't want her--they have not exactly room for her."

"But surely they want to know where she is?" Rawson-Clew persisted.

"No, they don't," Johnny told him. "They know she is all right; she told them so, and told
them she did not want to be found. They are satisfied--" He broke off, feeling that the visitor
was more astonished than admiring of such a state of affairs. "Family emotions and sentiments,
you know," he explained in defence of this family, "are not every one's strong point; the social,
or the religious, or--" (he waved his hand comprehendingly) "or the national may stand first,
and why not?"

"Are you satisfied?" Rawson-Clew asked briefly.

"I'd sooner be able to see her," Johnny admitted. "I'm fond of her; yes, she's been very kind
and good; I miss seeing her. But, of course, she has her way to make in the world."

"But are you satisfied that she should make it thus? That she should leave the Dutch family
she was with and disappear, leaving no address?"

"Sir," Johnny said with dignity, "I am quite satisfied, and if any one says that he is not,
I would be pleased to talk to him."

But the dignity left Mr. Gillat's manner as quickly as it came; before Rawson-Clew could say
anything, he was apologising. "You must forgive me," he said; "I am very fond of that little
girl; and I thought--but I had no business to think; I'm an old fool, to think you meant--"

"I only meant," Rawson-Clew said, speaking with unconscious gentleness, "that I was afraid
she might be in difficulties. She may be in trouble about money, or something."

"Oh, no," Johnny said cheerfully; "she has a fine head for money matters. I have sometimes
thought, since she has been gone, that she has the best head in the family! She's all right--quite
right; there's no need to be uneasy about her. I'll show you the letter she wrote me."

He opened a shabby pocket-book, and took out a letter. "There, you read that," he said.

Rawson-Clew read, and at the end was little wiser. Julia said she had left one situation (reason
not even suggested), and had got another. That she did not wish to give her new address, or
to hear from Mr. Gillat, or her family, at this new place, as it might spoil her arrangements.
Rawson-Clew recognised the last word as a favourite of Julia's; with her it was elastic, and
could mean anything, from a piece of lace arranged to fill up the neck of a dress, to a complex
and far-reaching scheme arranged to bring about some desired end. What it meant in the present
instance was not indicated, but clearly she did not wish for interference, and, with some wisdom,
took the surest way to prevent it by making it well-nigh impossible. She had left one means
of communication, however, though apparently that was for Johnny only. "If you and father get
into any very great muddle," she wrote, "you must let me know. Put an advertisement--one word,
'Johnny,' will do--in a paper; I shall understand, and, if I can, I will try to do something."
A paper was suggested; it was a cheap weekly. Rawson-Clew remembered to have seen it once in
the small Dutch town that summer, so it was to be got there. Unfortunately, as he also remembered,
it was to be got in Amsterdam and Rotterdam, and Paris and Berlin too.

He folded the letter, and returned it to Mr. Gillat. "Thank you," he said; "evidently, as you
say, she does not wish to be found, and it would seem she has got some sort of employment,
although I am afraid it cannot be of an easy or pleasant sort."

He did not explain the reason he had for thinking so, and Mr. Gillat never thought of asking.
Soon after he went away.

Clearly there was nothing to be done. Julia did not mean to have his help and protection; and,
with a decision and completeness which, now he came to think of it, did not altogether surprise
him, she has taken care to avoid them. That absurd refusal of hers was, after all, a reprieve,
although until now he had not looked upon it in that light. No doubt it was a good thing affairs
had turned out as they had; the marriage would have been in many ways disadvantageous. Yet
he certainly would have insisted on it, and taken trouble to do so, if she had not put it altogether
out of his power. All the same, he did not feel as gratified as he ought, perhaps because the
arrogance of man is not pleased to have woman arbitrator of his fate, and the instinct of gentleman
is not satisfied to have her bear his burden, perhaps for some other less clear reason. He
really did not know himself, and did not try to think; there seemed little object in doing
so, seeing that incident was closed.

The next day he went north, and by accident travelled part of the way with a lady of his acquaintance.
She was young, not more than five or six and twenty, nice looking too, and very well dressed.
She had a lot of small impediments with her--a cloak, a dressing-bag, sunshade, umbrella, golf
clubs--some one, no doubt, would come and clear her when the destination was reached; in the
mean time, she and her belongings were an eminently feminine presence. She talked pleasantly
of what had happened since they last met; she had been to Baireuth that summer, she told him,
and spoke intelligently of the music, the technique and the beauty of it, and what it stood
for. She was surprised to hear he had got no further than Holland, and more surprised still
that he had not even seen Rembrandt's masterpiece while he was there. Her voice was smooth
and even, a little loud, perhaps, from her spending much time out of doors, not in the least
given to those subtle changes of tone which express what is not said; but as she never wanted
to express any such things, that did not matter.

She did not bore him with too much conversation; she had papers with her--some three or four,
and she glanced at them between whiles. Afterwards she commented on their contents--the political
situation, the war (there is always a war somewhere), the cricket news, the new books; touching
lightly, but intelligently, on each topic in turn.

Rawson-Clew listened and answered, polite and mildly interested. It was some time since he
had heard this agreeable kind of conversation, and since he had come in contact with this agreeable
kind of person. He ought to have appreciated it more, as men appreciate the charm of drawing-rooms
who have long been banished from them. He came to the conclusion that he must be growing old,
not to prefer the society of a pretty, agreeable and well-dressed woman to an empty railway
carriage.

The girl had two fine carnations in her coat; the stalks were rather long, and so had got bruised.
She regretted this, and Rawson-Clew offered to cut them for her. He began to feel for a knife
in likely and unlikely pockets, and it was then that he first noticed a faint, sweet smell;
dry, not strong at all, more a memory than a scent. He did not recognise what it was, nor from
where it came, but it reminded him of something, he could not think what.

He puzzled over it as he cut the flower stalks, then all at once he laid hold on the edge of
a recollection--a pair of dark eyes, in which mirthful, mocking lights flickered, as the sun
splashes flicker on the ground under trees--a voice, many-noted as a violin, that grew softest
when it was going to strike hardest, that expressed a hundred things unsaid.

He looked across at the owner of the carnations, and wondered by what perversity of fate it
was decreed that any one who could buy such good boots, should have such ill-shaped feet to
put into them; and why, if fate so handicapped her, why she should exhibit them by crossing
her knees. He also wondered what possessed her to wear that hat; every other well-dressed girl
had a variation of the style that year, it was the correctest of the correct for fashion, but
he did not take note of that. Men are rather blockheaded on the subject of fashion, and seldom
see the charm in the innately unbecoming and unsuitable, no matter what decrees it.

He looked back to the empty opposite corner, and, though until that moment he had not really
thought of Julia since he left Mr. Gillat yesterday, he put her there in imagination now. He
did not want her there, he did not want her anywhere (there are some wines which a man does
not want, that still rather spoil his taste for others). She would not have made the mistake
of wearing such a hat; her clothes were not new, they were distinctly shabby sometimes, but
they were well assorted. As to the boots--he remembered the day he tied her shoe--he could
imagine the man she married, if he were very young and very foolish, of course, finding a certain
pleasure in taking her arched foot, when it was pink and bare, in the hollow of his hand. If
she were in that corner now, the quiet, twinkling smile would certainly be on her face as she
listened to the talk of books, and men, and places, and things. He did not picture her joining
even when they spoke of things she knew, and places she had been to--he remembered he had once
heard her speak of a town which had been spoken of this afternoon. She had somehow grasped
the whole life of the place, and laid it bare to him in a few words--the light-hearted gaiety
and the sordid misery, the black superstition and the towering history which overhung it, and
the cheerful commonplace which, like the street cries and the gutter streams, ran through it
all--the whole flavour of the thing. The girl opposite had been to the place too; she told
him of the historic spots she had visited; she knew a deal more about them than Julia did.
She spoke of the quaint pottery to be bought there--it had not struck Julia as quaint, any
more than it did its buyers and sellers. And she referred to the sayings and opinions of a
great pose writer, who had expressed all he knew and felt and thought about it, and more besides.
Julia, apparently, had not read him--what reading she had done seemed to be more in the direction
of Gil Blas, and Dean Swift, and other kindred things in different languages.

The owner of the carnations glanced out of window, and commented on the scenery, which was
here rather fine--Julia would not have done that; all the same, she would have known just what
sort of country they had passed through all the way, not only when it was fine; she would have
noticed the lie of the land, the style of work done there, the kind of lives lived there, even,
possibly, the likely difficulties in the way of railway-making and bridge building. She would
certainly have taken account of the faces on the platforms at which they drew up, so that without
effort she could have picked out the porter who would give the best service; the stranger in
need of help, and he who would offer it; and the guard most likely to be useful if it were
necessary to cheat the company--it was conceivable that cheating companies might sometimes
be necessary in her scheme of things.

He cut another piece off the carnation stalks, they were still too long. He did not wish Julia
there; he fancied that it was likely she would not easily find her place among the people he
would meet at his journey's end. But if there were no end--if he were going somewhere else,
east or west, north or south--say a certain old oriental town, old and wicked as time itself,
and full of the mystery and indefinable charm of age, and iniquity, and transcendent beauty--she
would like that; she would grasp the whole, without attempting to express or judge it. Or a
little far-off Tyrolean village, remote as the mountains from the life of the world--she would
like that; the discomfort would be nothing to her, the primitiveness, the simplicity, everything.
If he were going to some such place--why, then, there were worse things than having to take
the companion of the holiday too.

