Experimental science, which in the Opus Tertium (p. 46) is distinguished from the speculative
sciences and the operative arts in a way that forcibly reminds us of Francis Bacon, is said
to have three great prerogatives over all other sciences:--(1) It verifies their conclusions
by direct experiment; (2) It discovers truths which they could never reach; (3) It investigates
the secrets of nature, and opens to us a knowledge of past and future. As an instance of his
method, Bacon gives an investigation into the nature and cause of the rainbow, which is really
a very fine specimen of inductive research.

The seventh part of the Opus Majus (De Morali Philosophia), not given in Jebb's edition, is
noticed at considerable length in the Opus Tertium (cap. xiv.). Extracts from it are given
by Charles (pp. 339-348).

As has been seen, Bacon had no sooner finished this elaborate work than he began to prepare
a summary to be sent along with it. Of this summary, or Opus Minus, part has come down and
is published in Brewer's Op. Ined. (313-389), from what appears to be the only MS. The work
was intended to contain an abstract of the Opus Majus, an account of the principal vices of
theology, and treatises on speculative and practical alchemy. At the same time, or immediately
after, Bacon began a third work as a preamble to the other two, giving their general scope
and aim, but supplementing them in many points. The part of this work, generally called Opus
Tertium, is printed by Brewer (pp. 1-310), who considers it to be a complete treatise. Charles,
however, has given good grounds for supposing that it is merely a preface, and that the work
went on to discuss grammar, logic (which Bacon thought of little service, as reasoning was
innate), mathematics, general physics, metaphysics and moral philosophy. He founds his argument
mainly on passages in the Communia Naturalium, which indeed prove distinctly that it was sent
to Clement, and cannot, therefore, form part of the Compendium, as Brewer seems to think. It
must be confessed, however, that nothing can well be more confusing than the references in
Bacon's works, and it seems well-nigh hopeless to attempt a complete arrangement of them until
the texts have been collated and carefully printed.

All these large works Bacon appears to have looked on as preliminaries, introductions, leading
to a great work which should embrace the principles of all the sciences. This great work, which
is perhaps the frequently-referred-to Liber Sex Scientiarum, he began, and a few fragments
still indicate its outline. First appears to have come the treatise now called Compendium Studii
Philosophiae (Brewer pp. 393-519), containing an account of the causes of error, and then entering
at length upon grammar. After that, apparently, logic was to be treated; then, possibly, mathematics
and physics; then speculative alchemy and experimental science. It is, however, very difficult,
in the present state of our knowledge of the MSS., to hazard even conjectures as to the contents
and nature of this last and most comprehensive work.

Bacon's fame in popular estimation has always rested on his mechanical discoveries. Careful
research has shown that very little can with accuracy be ascribed to him. He certainly describes
a method of constructing a telescope, but not so as to lead one to conclude that he was in
possession of that instrument. Burning-glasses were in common use, and spectacles it does not
appear he made, although he was probably acquainted with the principle of their construction.
His wonderful predictions (in the De Secretis) must be taken cum grano salis; he believed in
astrology, in the doctrine of signatures, and in the philosopher's stone, and knew that the
circle had been squared. For his work in connexion with gunpowder, the invention of which has
been claimed for him on the ground of a passage in his De mirabili potestate artis et naturae,
see GUNPOWDER.

Summary.--The 13th century, an age peculiarly rich in great men, produced few, if any, who
can take higher rank than Roger Bacon. He is in every way worthy to be placed beside Albertus
Magnus, Bonaventura, and Thomas Aquinas. These had an infinitely wider renown in their day,
but modern criticism has restored the balance in his favour, and is even in danger of erring
in the opposite direction. Bacon, it is now said, was not appreciated by his age because he
was in advance of it; he is no schoolman, but a modern thinker, whose conceptions of science
are more just and clear than are even those of his more celebrated namesake.[4] In this view
there is certainly some truth, but it is much exaggerated. As a general rule, no man can be
completely dissevered from his national antecedents and [v.03 p.0156] surroundings, and Bacon
is not an exception. Those who take up such an extreme position regarding his merits have known
too little of the state of contemporary science, and have limited their comparison to the works
of the scholastic theologians. We never find in Bacon himself any consciousness of originality;
he is rather a keen and systematic thinker, working in a well-beaten track, from which his
contemporaries were being drawn by theology and metaphysics. Against the somewhat enthusiastic
estimate and modern interpretation given in this work, are Schneider in his Roger Bacon, Eine
Monographie (Augsburg, 1873); K. Werner, Die Psychol. ... des Roger Bacon and Die Kosmologie
... des Roger Bacon (Vienna, 1879); S. A. Hirsch, Early English Hebraists (1899); Book of Essays
(London, 1905), deals with Bacon as a Hebraist. The new matter contained in the publications
of Charles and Brewer was summarized by H. Siebert, Roger Bacon: Inaugural Dissertation (Marburg,
1861). Cf. also J. K. Ingram, On the Opus Majus of Bacon (Dublin, 1858); Cousin, "Fragments
phil. du moyen âge" (reprinted from Journal des savans, 1848); E. Saisset, "Précurseurs et
disciples de Descartes," pp. 1-58 (reprinted from Revue de deux mondes, 1861); K. Prantl, Gesch.
der Logik, iii. 120-129 (a severe criticism of Bacon's logical doctrines); Held, Roger Bacon's
praktische Philosophie (Jena, 1881); Karl Pohl, Das Verhältniss d. Philos. zur Theol. bei Roger
Bacon (Neustrelitz, 1893); articles in Westminster Review, lxxxi. 1 and 512; A. Parrot, Roger
Bacon et ses contemporains (1894); E. Fluegel, Roger Bacons Stellung in d. Gesch. d. Philos.
(1902); S. Vogl, Die Physik Roger Bacos (1906). For the popular legend see Famous Historie
of Fryer Bacon (London, 1615; reproduced in Thoms, Early Prose Romances, iii.); R. Greene's
Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay (1587 or 1588), and in publication of the Percy Society, vol.
xv. 1844, A Piece of Friar Bacon's Brazen Heade's Prophesie (1604). For Bacon as a classical
scholar see J. E. Sandys, Hist. of Class. Schol. (2nd ed., 1906), cxxxi.

(R. AD.; X.)

