About an hour afterwards I saw her in the arcade round the court, and, to my great surprise,
she had a perfect plait down her back, and over her head and brows a green-silk feredjeh, or
hood, precisely as in the picture.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is a question, the answer to which would be interesting to me: Whether or not for twenty
years--or say rather twenty centuries, twenty eternal aeons--I have been stark mad, a raving
maniac; and whether or not I am now suddenly sane, sitting here writing in my right mind, my
whole mood and tone changed, or rapidly changing? And whether such change can be due to the
presence of only one other being in the world with me?

       *       *       *       *       *

This singular being! Where she has lived--and how--is a problem to which not the faintest solution
is conceivable. She had, I say, never seen clothes: for when I began to dress her, her perplexity
was unbounded; also, during her twenty years, she has never seen almonds, figs, nuts, liqueurs,
chocolate, conserves, vegetables, sugar, oil, honey, sweetmeats, orange-sherbet, mastic, salt,
raki, tobacco, and many such things: for she showed perplexity at all these, hesitation to
eat them: but she has known and tasted white wine: I could see that. Here, then, is a mystery.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have not gone to Imbros, but remained here some days longer observing her.

I have allowed her to sit in a corner at meal-time, not far from where I eat, and I have given
her food.

She is wonderfully clever! I continually find that, after an incredibly short time, she has
most completely adapted herself to this or that. Already she wears her outfit as coquettishly
as though born to clothes. Without at all seeming observant--for, on the contrary, she gives
an impression of great flightiness--she watches me, I am convinced, with pretty exact observation.
She knows precisely when I am speaking roughly, bidding her go, bidding her come, tired of
her, tolerant of her, scorning her, cursing her. If I wish her to the devil, she quickly divines
it by my face, and will disappear. Yesterday I noticed something queer about her, and soon
discovered that she had been staining her lids with black kohol, like the hanums, so that,
having found a box, she must have guessed its use from the pictures. Wonderfully clever!--imitative
as a mirror. Two mornings ago I found an old mother-of-pearl kittur, and sitting under the
arcade, touched the strings, playing a simple air; I could just see her behind one of the arch-pillars
on the opposite side, and she was listening with apparent eagerness, and, I fancied, panting.
Well, returning from a walk beyond the Phanar walls in the afternoon, I heard the same air
coming out from the house, for she was repeating it pretty faultlessly by ear.

Also, during the forenoon of the previous day, I came upon her--for footsteps make no sound
in this house--in the pacha's visitors'-hall: and what was she doing?--copying the poses of
three dancing-girls frescoed there! So that she would seem to have a character as light as
a butterfly's, and is afraid of nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now I know.

I had observed that at the beginning of every meal she seemed to have something on her mind,
going toward the door, hesitating as if to see whether I would follow, and then returning.
At length yesterday, after sitting to eat, she jumped up, and to my infinite surprise, said
her first word: said it with a most quaint, experimental effort of the tongue, as a fledgling
trying the air: the word 'Come.'

That morning, meeting her in the court, I had told her to repeat some words after me: but she
had made no attempt, as if shy to break the long silence of her life; and now I felt some sort
of foolish pleasure in hearing her utter that word, often no doubt heard from me: and after
hurriedly eating, I went with her, saying to myself: 'She must be about to shew me the food
to which she is accustomed: and perhaps that will solve her origin.'

And so it has proved. I have now discovered that to the moment when she saw me, she had tasted
only her mother's milk, dates, and that white wine of Ismidt which the Koran permits.

As it was getting dark, I lit and took with me the big red-silk lantern, and we set out, she
leading, and walking confoundedly fast, slackening when I swore at her, and getting fast again:
and she walks with a certain levity, flightiness, and liberated furore, very hard to describe,
as though space were a luxury to be revelled in. By what instinctive cleverness, or native
vigour of memory, she found her way I cannot tell, but she led me such a walk that night, miles,
miles, till I became furious, darkness having soon fallen with only a faint moon obscured by
cloud, and a drizzle which haunted the air, she without light climbing and picking her thinly-slippered
steps over mounds of débris and loosely-strewn masonry with unfailing agility, I occasionally
splashing a foot with horror into one of those little ponds which always marked the Stamboul
streets. When I was nearer her, I would see her peer across and upward toward Pera, as if that
were a remembered land-mark, and would note the perpetual aspen oscillations of the long coral
drops in her ears, and the nimble ply of her limbs, wondering with a groan if Pera was our goal.

Our goal was even beyond Pera. When we came to the Golden Horn, she pointed to my caique which
lay at the Old Seraglio steps, and over the water we went, she lying quite at ease now, with
her face at the level of the water in the centre of the crescent-shape, as familiarly as a
hanum of old engaged in some escapade through the crowded Babel of Galata and that north side
of the Horn.

Through Galata we passed, I already cursing the journey: and, following the line of the coast
and the great steep thoroughfare of Pera, we came at last, almost in the country, to a great
wall, and the entrance to an immense terraced garden, whose limits were invisible, many of
the trees and avenues being still intact.

I knew it at once: I had lain a special fuse-train in the great palace at the top of the terraces:
it was the royal palace, Yildiz.

Up and up we went through the grounds, a few unburned old bodies in rags of uniform still discernible
here and there as the lantern swung past them, a musician in sky-blue, a fantassin and officer-of-the-guard
in scarlet, forming a cross, with domestics of the palace in red-and-orange.

The palace itself was quite in ruins, together with all its surrounding barracks, mosque, and
seraglio, and, as we reached the top of the grounds, presented a picture very like those which
I have seen of the ruins of Persepolis, only that here the columns, both standing and fallen,
were innumerable, and all more or less blackened; and through doorless doors we passed, down
immensely-wide short flights of steps, and up them, and over strewed courtyards, by tottering
fragments of arcades, all roofless, and tracts of charcoal between interrupted avenues of pillars,
I following, expectant, and she very eager now. Finally, down a flight of twelve or fourteen
rather steep and narrow steps, very dislocated, we went to a level which, I thought, must be
the floor of the palace vaults: for at the bottom of the steps we stood on a large plain floor
of plaster, which bore the marks of the flames; and over this the girl ran a few steps, pointed
with excited recognition to a hole in it, ran further, and disappeared down the hole.

When I followed, and lowered the lantern a little, I saw that the drop down was about eight
feet, made less than six feet by a heap of stone-rubbish below, the falling of which had caused
the hole: and it was by standing on this rubbish-heap, I knew at once, that she must have been
enabled to climb out into the world.

I dropped down, and found myself in a low flat-roofed cellar, with a floor of black earth,
very fusty and damp, but so very vast in extent that even in the day-time, I suppose, I could
not have discerned its boundaries; I fancy, indeed, that it extends beneath the whole palace
and its environs--an enormous stretch of space: with the lantern I could only see a very limited
portion of its area. She still led me eagerly on, and I presently came upon a whole region
of flat boxes, each about two feet square, and nine inches high, made of very thin laths, packed
to the roof; and about a-hundred-and-fifty feet from these I saw, where she pointed, another
region of bottles, fat-bellied bottles in chemises of wicker-work, stretching away into gloom
and total darkness. The boxes, of which a great number lay broken open, as they can be by merely
pulling with the fingers at a pliant crack, contain dates; and the bottles, of which many thousands
lay empty, contain, I saw, old Ismidtwine. Some fifty or sixty casks, covered with mildew,
some old pieces of furniture, and a great cube of rotting, curling parchments, showed that
this cellar had been more or less loosely used for the occasional storage of superfluous stores
and knick-knacks.

It was also more or less loosely used as a domestic prison. For in the lane between the region
of boxes and the region of bottles, near the former, there lay on the ground the skeleton of
a woman, the details of whose costume were still appreciable, with thin brass gyves on her
wrists: and when I had examined her well, I knew the whole history of the creature standing
silent by my side.

She is the daughter of the Sultan, as I assumed when I had once determined that the skeleton
is both the skeleton of her mother, and the skeleton of the Sultana.

That the skeleton was her mother is clear: for the cloud occurred just twenty-one years since,
and the dead woman was, of course, at that moment in the prison, which must have been air-tight,
and with her the girl: but since the girl is quite certainly not much more than twenty--she
looks younger--she must at that time have been either unborn or a young babe: but a babe would
hardly be imprisoned with another than its own mother. I am rather inclined to think that the
girl was unborn at the moment of the cloud, and was born in the cellar.

That the mother was the Sultana is clear from her fragments of dress, and the symbolic character
of her every ornament, crescent earrings, heron-feather, and the blue campaca enamelled in
a bracelet. This poor woman, I have thought, may have been the victim of some unbounded fit
of imperial passion, incurred by some domestic crime, real or imagined, which may have been
pardoned in a day had not death overtaken her master and the world.

There are four steep stone steps at about the centre of the cellar, leading up to a locked
iron trap-door, apparently the only opening into this great hole: and this trap-door must have
been so nearly air-tight as to bar the intrusion of the poison in anything like deadly quantity.

But how rare--how strange--the coincidence of chances here. For, if the trap-door was absolutely
air-tight, I cannot think that the supply of oxygen in the cellar, large as it was, would have
been sufficient to last the girl twenty years, to say nothing of what her mother used up before
death: for I imagine that the woman must have continued to live some time in her dungeon, sufficiently
long, at least, to teach her child to procure its food of dates and wine; so that the door
must have been only just sufficiently hermetic to bar the poison, yet admit some oxygen; or
else, the place may have been absolutely air-tight at the time of the cloud, and some crack,
which I have not seen, opened to admit oxygen after the poison was dispersed: in any case--the
all-but-infinite rarity of the chance!

Thinking these things I climbed out, and we walked to Pera, where I slept in a great white-stone
house in five or six acres of garden overlooking the cemetery of Kassim, having pointed out
to the girl another house in which to sleep.

This girl! what a history! After existing twenty years in a sunless world hardly three acres
wide, she one day suddenly saw the only sky which she knew collapse at one point! a hole appeared
into yet a world beyond! It was I who had come, and kindled Constantinople, and set her free.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ah, I see something now! I see! it was for this that I was preserved: I to be a sort of new-fangled
Adam--and this little creature to be my Eve! That is it! The White does not admit defeat: he
would recommence the Race again! At the last, the eleventh hour--in spite of all--he would
turn defeat into victory, and outwit that Other.

However, if this be so--and I seem to see it quite clearly--then in that White scheme is a
singular flaw: at one point, it is obvious, that elaborate Forethought fails: for I have a
free will--and I refuse, I refuse.

Certainly, in this matter I am on the side of the Black: and since it depends absolutely upon
me, this time Black wins.

No more men on the earth after me, ye Powers! To you the question may be nothing more than
a gambling excitement as to the final outcome of your aërial squabble: but to the poor men
who had to bear the wrongs, Inquisitions, rack-rents, Waterloos, unspeakable horrors, it was
hard earnest, you know! Oh the wretchedness--the deep, deep pain--of that bungling ant-hill,
happily wiped out, my God! My sweetheart Clodagh ... she was not an ideal being! There was
a man called Judas who betrayed the gentle Founder of the Christian Faith, and there was some
Roman king named Galba, a horrid dog, and there was a French devil, Gilles de Raiz: and the
rest were all much the same, much the same. Oh no, it was not a good race, that small infantry
which called itself Man: and here, falling on my knees before God and Satan as I write, I swear,
I swear: Never through me shall it spring and fester again.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot realise her! Not at all, at all, at all! If she is out of my sight and hearing ten
minutes, I fall to doubting her reality. If I lose her for half a day, all the old feelings,
resembling certainties, come back, that I have only been dreaming--that this appearance cannot
be an actual objective fact of life, since the impossible is impossible.

Seventeen long years, seventeen long years, of madness....

       *       *       *       *       *

To-morrow I start for Imbros: and whether this girl chooses to follow me, or whether she stays
behind, I will see her from the moment I land no more.

       *       *       *       *       *

She must rise very early. I who am now regularly on the palace-roof at dawn, sometimes from
between the pavilion-curtains of the galleries, or from the steps of the telescope-kiosk, may
spy her far down below, a dainty microscopic figure, generally running about the sward, or
gazing up in wonder at the palace from the lake-edge.

It is now three months since she came with me to Imbros.

I left her the first night in that pale-yellow house with the two green jalousies facing the
beach, where there was everything that she would need; but I knew that, like all the houses
there now, it leaked profusely, and the next day I went down to the curving stair, cut through
the rock at the back and south of the village, climbed, and half a mile beyond found that park
and villa with gables, which I had noted from the sea. The villa is almost intact, very strongly
built of purplish marble, though small, and very like a Western house, with shingles, and three
gables, so that I think it must have been the yali of some Englishman, for it contains a number
of English books, though the only body I saw there was what looked like an Aararat Kurd, with
spiral string wound down his turban, yellow ankle-pantaloons, and flung red shoulder-cloak;
and all in the heavily-wooded park, and all about the low rock-steps up the hill, profusions
of man-dragora; and from the rock-steps to the house a narrow long avenue of acacias, mossy
underfoot, that mingle overhead, the house standing about four yards from the edge of the perpendicular
sea-cliff, whence one can see the Speranzas main top-mast, and broken mizzen-mast-head, in
her quiet haven. After examining the place I went down again to the village, and her house:
but she was not there: and two hours long I paced about among the weeds of these amateur little
alleys and flat-roofed windowless houses (though some have terrace-roofs, and a rare aperture),
whose once-raw yellows, greens, and blues look now like sunset tints when the last flush is
gone, and they fade dun. When at last she came running with open mouth, I took her up the rock-steps,
and into the house, and there she has lived, one of the gable-tips, I now find (that overlooking
the sea), being just visible from the north-east corner of the palace-roof, two miles from it.

That night again, when I was leaving her, she made an attempt to follow me. But I was resolved
to end it, then: and cutting a sassafras-whip I cut her deep, three times, till she ran, crying.

       *       *       *       *       *

So, then, what is my fate henceforth?--to think always, from sun to moon, and from moon to
sun, of one only thing--and that thing an object for the microscope?--to become a sneaking
Paul Pry to spy upon the silly movements of one little sparrow, like some fatuous motiveless
gossip of old, his occupation to peep, his one faculty to scent, his honey and his achievement
to unearth the infinitely unimportant? I would kill her first!

       *       *       *       *       *

I am convinced that she is no stay-at-home, but roams continually over the island: for thrice,
wandering myself, I have come upon her.

The first time she was running with flushed face, intent upon striking down a butterfly with
a twig held in the left hand (for both hands she uses with dexterity). It was at about nine
in the morning, in her park, near the bottom where there are high grass-growths and ferny luxuriance
between the close tree-trunks, and shadow, and the broken wall of an old funeral-kiosk sunk
aslant under moss, creepers, and wild flowers, behind which I peeped hidden and wet with dew.
She has had the assurance to modify the dress I put upon her, and was herself a butterfly,
for instead of the shintiyan, she had on a zouave, hardly reaching to the waist, of saffron
satin, no feredjé, but a scarlet fez with violet tassel, and baggy pantaloons of azure silk;
down her back the long auburn plait, quite neat, but all her front hair loose and wanton, the
fez cocked backward, while I caught glimpses of her fugitive heels lifting out of the dropping
slipper-sole. She is pretty clever, but not clever enough, for that butterfly escaped, and
in one instant I saw her change into weary and sad, for on this earth is nothing more fickle
than that Proteus face, which resembles a landscape swept with cloud-shadows on a bright day.
Fast beat my heart that morning, owing to the consciousness that, while I saw, I was unseen,
yet might be seen.

Another noontide, three weeks afterwards, I came upon her a good way up yonder to the west
of the palace, sleeping on her arm in an alley between overgrown old trellises, where rioting
wild vine buried her in gloom: but I had not been peeping through the bushes a minute, when
she started up and looked wildly about, her quick consciousness, I imagine, detecting a presence:
though I think that I managed to get away unseen. She keeps her face very dirty: all about
her mouth was dry-stained with a polychrome of grape, mûrs, and other coloured juices, like
slobbering gamins of old. I could also see that her nose and cheeks are now sprinkled with
little freckles.

Four days since I saw her a third time, and then found that the primitive instinct to represent
the world in pictures has been working in her: for she was drawing. It was down in the middle
one of the three east-and-west village streets, for thither I had strolled toward evening,
and coming out upon the street from between an old wall and a house, saw her quite near. I
pulled up short--and peered. She was lying on her face all among grasses, a piece of yellow
board before her, and in her fingers a chalk-splinter: and very intently she drew, her tongue-tip
travelling along her short upper-lip from side to side, regularly as a pendulum, her fez tipped
far back, and the left foot swinging upward from the knee. She had drawn her yali at the top,
and now, as I could see by peering well forward, was drawing underneath the palace--from memory,
for where she lay it is all hidden: yet the palace it was, for there were the waving lines
meant for the steps, the two slanting pillars, the slanting battlements of the outer court,
and before the portal, with turban reaching above the roof, and my two whisks of beard sweeping
below the knees--myself.

Something spurred me, and I could not resist shouting a sudden "Hi!" whereupon she scrambled
like a spring-bok to her feet, I pointing to the drawing, smiling.

This creature has a way of mincing her pressed lips, while she shakes the head, intensely cooing
a fond laugh: and so she did then.

"You are a clever little wretch, you know," said I, she cocking her eye, trying to divine my
meaning with vague smile.

'Oh, yes, a clever little wretch,' I went on in a gruff voice, 'clever as a serpent, no doubt:
for in the first case it was the Black who used the serpent, but now it is the White. But it
will not do, you know. Do you know what you are to me, you? You are my Eve!--a little fool,
a little piebald frog like you. But it will not do at all, at all! A nice race it would be
with you for mother, and me for father, wouldn't it?--half-criminal like the father, half-idiot
like the mother: just like the last, in short. They used to say, in fact, that the offspring
of a brother and sister was always weak-headed: and from such a wedlock certainly came the
human race, so no wonder it was what it was: and so it would have to be again now. Well no--unless
we have the children, and cut their throats at birth: and you would not like that at all, I
know, and, on the whole, it would not work, for the White would be striking a poor man dead
with His lightning, if I attempted that. No, then: the modern Adam is some eight to twenty
thousand years wiser than the first--you see? less instinctive, more rational. The first disobeyed
by commission: I shall disobey by omission: only his disobedience was a sin, mine is a heroism.
I have not been a particularly ideal sort of beast so far, you know: but in me, Adam Jeffson--I
swear it--the human race shall at last attain a true nobility, the nobility of self-extinction.
I shall turn out trumps: I shall prove myself stronger than Tendency, World-Genius, Providence,
Currents of Fate, White Power, Black Power, or whatever is the name for it. No more Clodaghs,
Lucrezia Borgias, Semiramises, Pompadours, Irish Landlords, Hundred-Years' Wars--you see?'

She kept her left eye obliquely cocked like a little fool, wondering, no doubt, what I was saying.

'And talking of Clodagh,' I went on, 'I shall call you that henceforth, to keep me reminded.
So that is your name--not Eve--but Clodagh, who was a Poisoner, you see? She poisoned a poor
man who trusted her: and that is your name now--not Eve, but Clodagh--to remind me, you most
dangerous little speckled viper! And in order that I may no more see your foolish little pretty
face, I decree that, for the future, you wear a yashmak to cover up your lips, which, I can
see, were meant to be seductive, though dirty; and you can leave the blue eyes, and the little
white-skinned freckled nose uncovered, if you like, they being commonplace enough. Meantime,
if you care to see how to draw a palace--I will show you.'

Before I stretched my hand, she was presenting the board--so that she had guessed something
of my meaning! But some hard tone in my talk had wounded her, for she presented it looking
very glum, her under-lip pushing a little obliquely out, very pathetically, I must say, as
always when she is just ready to cry.

In a few strokes I drew the palace, and herself standing at the portal between the pillars:
and now great was her satisfaction, for she pointed to the sketched figure, and to herself,
interrogatively: and when I nodded 'yes,' she went cooing her fond murmurous laugh, with pressed
and mincing lips: and it is clear that, in spite of my beatings, she is in no way afraid of me.

Before I could move away, I felt some rain-drops, and down in some seconds rushed a shower.
I looked, saw that the sky was rapidly darkening, and ran into the nearest of the little cubical
houses, leaving her glancing sideways upward, with the quaintest artlessness of interest in
the downpour: for she is not yet quite familiarised with the operations of nature, and seems
to regard them with a certain amiable inquisitive seriousness, as though they were living beings,
comrades as good as herself. She presently joined me, but even then stretched her hand out
to feel the drops.

Now there came a thunder-clap, the wind was rising, and rain spattering about me: for the panes
of these houses, made, I believe, of paper saturated in almond-oil, have long disappeared,
and rains, penetrating by roof and rare window, splash the bones of men. I gathered up my skirts
to run toward other shelter, but she was before me, saying in her strange experimental voice
that word of hers: "Come."

She ran in advance, and I, with the outer robe over my head, followed, urging flinching way
against the whipped rain-wash. She took the way by the stone horse-pond, through an alley to
the left between two blind walls, then down a steep path through wood to the rock-steps, and
up we ran, and along the hill, to her yali, which is a mile nearer the village than the palace,
though by the time we pelted into its dry shelter we were wet to the skin.

Sudden darkness had come, but she quickly found some matches, lit one, looking at it with a
certain meditative air, and applied it to a candle and to a bronze Western lamp on the table,
which I had taught her to oil and light. Near a Western fire-place was a Turkish mangal, like
one which she had seen me light to warm bath-waters in Constantinople, and when I pointed to
it, she ran to the kitchen, returned with some chopped wood, and very cleverly lit it. And
there for several hours I sat that night, reading (the first time for many years): it was a
book by the poet Milton, found in a glazed book-case on the other side of the fire-place: and
most strange, most novel, I found those august words about warring angels that night, while
the storm raved: for this man had evidently taken no end of pains with his book, and done it
gallantly well, too, making the thing hum: and I could not conceive why he should have been
at that trouble--unless it were for the same reason that I built the palace, because some spark
bites a man, and he would be like--but that is all vanity, and delusion.

Well, there is a rage in the storms of late years which really transcends bounds; I do not
remember if I have noted it in these sheets before: but I never could have conceived a turbulence
so huge. Hour after hour I sat there that night, smoking a chibouque, reading, and listening
to the batteries and lamentations of that haunted air, shrinking from it, fearing even for
the Speranza by her quay in the sequestered harbour, and for the palace-pillars. But what astonished
me was that girl: for, after sitting on the ottoman to my left some time, she fell sideways
asleep, not the least fear about her, though I should have thought that nervousness at such
a turmoil would be so natural to her: and whence she has this light confidence in the world
into which she has so abruptly come I do not know, for it is as though someone inspired her
with the mood of nonchalance, saying: 'Be of good cheer, and care not a pin about anything:
for God is God.'

I heard the ocean swing hoarse like heavy ordnance against the cliffs below, where they meet
the outer surface of the southern of the two claws of land that form the harbour: and the thought
came into my mind: 'If now I taught her to speak, to read, I could sometimes make her read
a book to me.'

The winds seemed wilfully struggling for the house to snatch and wing it away into the drear
Eternities of the night: and I could not but heave the sigh: 'Alas for us two poor waifs and
castaways of our race, little bits of flotsam and seaweed-hair cast up here a moment, ah me,
on this shore of the Ages, soon to be dragged back, O turgid Eternity, into thy abysmal gorge;
and upon what strand--who shall say?--shall she next be flung, and I, divided then perhaps
by all the stretch of the trillion-distanced astral gulf?' And such a pity, and a wringing
of the heart, seemed in things, that a tear fell from my eyes that ominous midnight.

She started up at a gust of more appalling volume, rubbing her eyes, with dishevelled hair
(it must have been about midnight), listening a minute, with that demure, droll interest of
hers, to the noise of the elements, and then smiled to me; rose then, left the room, and presently
returned with a pomegranate and some almonds on a plate, also some delicious old sweet wine
in a Samian cruche, and an old silver cup, gilt inside, standing in a zarf. These she placed
on the table near me, I murmuring: 'Hospitality.'

She looked at the book, which I read as I ate, with lowered left eye-lid, seeking to guess
its use, I suppose. Most things she understands at once, but this must have baffled her: for
to see one looking fixedly at a thing, and not know what one is looking at it for, must be
very disconcerting.

I held it up before her, saying:

"Shall I teach you to read it? If I did, how would you repay me, you Clodagh?"

She cocked her eyes, seeking to comprehend. God knows, at that moment I pitied the poor dumb
waif, alone in all the whole round earth with me. The candle-flame, moved by the wind like
a slow-painting brush, flickered upon her face, though every cranny was closed.

"Perhaps, then," I said, "I will teach you. You are a pitiable little derelict of your race,
you know: and two hours every day I will let you come to the palace, and I will teach you.
But be sure, be careful. If there be danger, I will kill you: assuredly--without fail. And
let me begin with a lesson now: say after me: 'White.'"

I took her hand, and got her to understand that I wanted her to repeat after me.

"White," said I.

"Hwhite," said she.

'Power,' said I.

'Pow-wer,' said she.

'White Power,' said I.

'Hwhite Pow-wer,' said she.

'Shall not,' said I.

'Sall not,' said she.

'White Power shall not,' said I.

'Hwhite Pow-wer sall not,' said she.

'Prevail,' said I.

'Fffail,' said she, pronouncing the 'v' with a long fluttering 'f'-sound.

'Pre-vail,' said I.

'Pe-vvvail,' said she.

'White Power shall not prevail,' said I.

'Hwhite Pow-wer sall not--fffail,' said she.

A thunder which roared as she said it seemed to me to go laughing through the universe, and
a minute I looked upon her face with positive shrinking fear; till, starting up, I thrust her
with violence from my path, and dashed forth to re-seek the palace and my bed.

Such was the ingratitude and fatality which my first attempt, four nights since, to teach her
met with. It remains to be seen whether my pity for her dumbness, or some servile tendency
toward fellowship in myself, will result in any further lesson. Certainly, I think not: for
though I have given my word, the most solemnly-pledged word may be broken.

Surely, surely, her presence in the world with me--for I suppose it is that--has wrought some
profound changes in my mood: for gone now apparently are those turbulent hours when, stalking
like a peacock, I flaunted my monarchy in the face of the Eternal Powers, with hissed blasphemies;
or else dribbled, shaking my body in a lewd dance; or was off to fire some vast city and revel
in redness and the chucklings of Hell; or rolled in the drunkenness of drugs. It was mere frenzy!--I
see it now--it was 'not good,' 'not good.' And it rather looks as if it were past--or almost.
I have clipped my beard and hair, removed the earrings, and thought of modifying my attire.
I will just watch to see whether she comes loitering down there about the gate of the lake.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her progress is like....

       *       *       *       *       *

It is nine months since I have written, on these sheets, those words, 'Her progress is like....'
being the beginning of some narrative in which something interrupted me: and since then I have
had no impulse to write.

But I was thinking just now of the curious tricks and uncertainties of my memory, and seeing
the sheets, will record it here. I have lately been trying to recall the name of a sister of
mine--some perfectly simple name, I know--and the name of my old home in England: and they
have completely passed out of my cognizance, though she was my only sister, and we grew up
closely together: some quite simple name, I forget it now. Yet I can't say that my memory is
bad: there are things--quite unexpected, unimportant things--which come up in my mind with
considerable clearness. For instance, I remember to have met in Paris (I think), long before
the poison-cloud, a little Brazilian boy of the colour of weak coffee-and-milk, of whom she
now constantly reminds me. He wore his hair short like a convict's, so that one could spy the
fish-white flesh beneath, and delighted to play solitary about the stairs of the hotel, dressed
up in the white balloon-dress of a Pierrot. I have the impression now that he must have had
very large ears. Clever as a flea he was, knowing five or six languages, as it were by nature,
without having any suspicion that that was at all extraordinary. She has that same light, unconscious,
and nonchalant cleverness, and easy way of life. It is little more than a year since I began
to teach her, and already she can speak English with a quite considerable vocabulary, and perfect
correctness (except that she does not pronounce the letter 'r'); she has also read, or rather
devoured, a good many books; and can write, draw, and play the harp. And all she does without
effort: rather with the flighty naturalness with which a bird takes to the wing.

What made me teach her to read was this: One afternoon, fourteen months or so ago, I from the
roof-kiosk saw her down at the lake-rim, a book in hand; and as she had seen me looking steadily
at books, so she was looking steadily at it, with pathetic sideward head: so that I burst into
laughter, for I saw her clearly through the glass, and whether she is the simplest little fool,
or the craftiest serpent that ever breathed, I am not yet sure. If I thought that she has the
least design upon my honour, it would be ill for her.

I went to Gallipoli for two days in the month of May, and brought back a very pretty little
caique, a perfect slender crescent of the colour of the moon, though I had two days' labour
in cutting through bush-thicket for the passage of the motor in bringing it up to the lake.
It has pleased me to see her lie among the silk cushions of the middle, while I, paddling,
taught her her first words and sentences between the hours of eight and ten in the evening,
though later they became 10 A.M. to noon, when the reading began, we sitting on the palace-steps
before the portal, her mouth invariably well covered with the yashmak, the lesson-book being
a large-lettered old Bible found at her yali. Why she must needs wear the yashmak she has never
once asked; and how much she divines, knows, or intends, I have no idea, continually questioning
myself as to whether she is all simplicity, or all cunning.

That she is conscious of some profound difference in our organisation I cannot doubt: for that
I have a long beard, and she none at all, is among the most patent of facts.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have thought that a certain Western-ness--a growing modernity of tone--may be the result,
as far as I am concerned, of her presence with me? I do not know....

       *       *       *       *       *

There is the gleam of a lake-end just visible in the north forest from the palace-top, and
in it a good number of fish like carp, tench, roach, etc., so in May I searched for a tackle-shop
in the Gallipoli Fatmeh-bazaar, and got four 12-foot rods, with reels, silk-line, quill-floats,
a few yards of silk-worm gut, with a packet of No. 7 and 8 hooks, and split-shot for sinkers;
and since red-worms, maggots and gentles are common on the island, I felt sure of a great many
more fish than the number I wanted, which was none at all. However, for the mere amusement,
I fished several times, lying at my length in a patch of long-grass over-waved by an enormous
cedar, where the bank is steep, and the water deep. And one mid-afternoon she was suddenly
there with me, questioned me with her eyes, and when I consented, stayed: and presently I said
I would teach her bottom-angling, and sent her flying up to the palace for another rod and tackle.

That day she did nothing, for after teaching her to thread the worm, and put the gentles on
the smaller hooks, I sent her to hunt for worms to chop up for ground-baiting the pitch for
the next afternoon; and when this was done it was dinner-time, and I sent her home, for by
then I was giving the reading-lessons in the morning.

The next day I found her at the bank, taught her to take the sounding for adjusting the float,
and she lay down not far from me, holding the rod. So I said to her:

'Well, this is better than living in a dark cellar twenty years, with nothing to do but walk
up and down, sleep, and consume dates and Ismidt wine.'

'Yes!' says she.

'Twenty years!' said I: 'How did you bear it?'

'I was not closs,' says she.

'Did you never suspect that there was a world outside that cellar?' said I.

'Never,' says she, 'or lather, yes: but I did not suppose that it was this world, but another
where he lived.'

'He who?'

'He who spoke with me.'

'Who was that?'

'Oh! a bite!' she screamed gladly.

I saw her float bob under, and started up, rushed to her, and taught her how to strike and
play it, though it turned out when landed to be nothing but a tiny barbel: but she was in ecstasies,
holding it on her palm, murmuring her fond coo.

She re-baited, and we lay again. I said:

'But what a life: no exit, no light, no prospect, no hope--'

'Plenty of hope!' says she.

'Good Heavens! hope of what?'

'I knew vely well that something was lipening over the cellar, or under, or alound it, and
would come to pass at a certain fixed hour, and that I should see it, and feel it, and it would
be vely nice.'

'Ah, well, you had to wait for it, at any rate. Didn't those twenty years seem long?'

'No--at least sometimes--not often. I was always so occupied.'

'Occupied in doing what?'

'In eating, or dlinking, or lunning, or talking.'

'Talking to yourself?'

'Not myself.'

'To whom, then?'

'To the one who told me when I was hungly, and put the dates to satisfy my hunger.'

'I see. Don't wriggle about in that way, or you will never catch any fish. The maxim of angling
is: "Study to be quiet"--'

'O! another bite!' she called, and this time, all alone, very agilely landed a good-sized bream.

'But do you mean that you were never sad?' said I when she was re-settled.

'Sometimes I would sit and cly,' says she--'I did not know why. But if that was "sadness,"
I was never miserlable, never, never. And if I clied, it did not last long, and I would soon
fall to sleep, for he would lock me in his lap, and kiss me, and wipe all my tears away.'

'He who?'

'Why, what a question! he who told me when I was hungly, and of the thing that was lipening
outside the cellar, which would be so nice.'

'I see, I see. But in all that dingy place, and thick gloom, were you never at all afraid?'

'Aflaid! I! of what?'

'Of the unknown.'

'I do not understand you. How could I be aflaid? The known was the very opposite of tellible:
it was merely hunger and dates, thirst and wine, the desire to lun and space to lun in, the
desire to sleep and sleep: there was nothing tellible in that: and the unknown was even less
tellible than the known: for it was the nice thing that was lipening outside the cellar. I
do not understand--'

'Ah, yes,' said I, 'you are a clever little being: but your continual fluttering about is fatal
to all angling. Isn't it in your nature to keep still a minute? And with regard now to your
habits in the cellar--?'

'Another!' she cried with happy laugh, and landed a young chub. And that afternoon she caught
seven, and I none.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another day I took her from the pitch to one of the kitchens in the village with some of the
fish, till then always thrown away, and taught her cooking: for the only cooking-implement
in the palace is the silver alcohol-lamp for coffee and chocolate. We both scrubbed the utensils,
and boil and fry I taught her, and the making of a sauce from vinegar, bottled olives, and
the tinned American butter from the Speranza, and the boiling of rice mixed with flour for
ground-baiting our pitch. And she, at first astonished, was soon all deft housewifeliness,
breathless officiousness, and behind my back, of her own intuitiveness, grated some dry almonds
found there, and with them sprinkled the fried tench. And we ate them, sitting on the floor
together: the first new food, I suppose, tasted by me for twenty-one years: nor did I find
it disagreeable.

The next day she came up to the palace reading a book, which turned out to be a cookery-book
in English, found at her yali; and a week later, she appeared, out of hours, presenting me
a yellow-earthenware dish containing a mess of gorgeous colours--a boiled fish under red peppers,
bits of saffron, a greenish sauce, and almonds: but I turned her away, and would have none
of her, or her dish.

       *       *       *       *       *

About a mile up to the west of the palace is a very old ruin in the deepest forest, I think
of a mosque, though only three truncated internal pillars under ivy, and the weedy floor, with
the courtyard and portal-steps remain, before it being a long avenue of cedars, gently descending
from the steps, the path between the trees choked with long-grass and wild rye reaching to
my middle. Here I saw one day a large disc of old brass, bossed in the middle, which may have
been either a shield or part of an ancient cymbal, with concentric rings graven round it, from
centre to circumference. The next day I brought some nails, a hammer, a saw, and a box of paints
from the Speranza; and I painted the rings in different colours, cut down a slim lime-trunk,
nailed the thin disc along its top, and planted it well, before the steps: for I said I would
make a bull's-eye, and do rifle and revolver practice before it, from the avenue. And this
the next evening I was doing at four hundred feet, startling the island, it seemed, with that
unusual noise, when up she came peering with enquiring face: at which I was very angry, because
my arm, long unused, was firing wide: but I was too proud to say anything, and let her look,
and soon she understood, laughing every time I made a considerable miss, till at last I turned
upon her saying: 'If you think it so easy, you may try.'

She had been wanting to try, for she came eagerly to the offer, and after I had opened and
showed her the mechanism, the cartridges, and how to shoot, I put into her hands one of the
Speranza Colt's. She took her bottom-lip between her teeth, shut her left eye, vaulted out
the revolver like an old shot to the level of her intense right eye, and sent a ball through
the geometrical centre of the boss.

However, it was a fluke-shot, for I had the satisfaction of seeing her miss every one of the
other five, except the last, which hit the black. That, however, was three weeks since, and
now my hitting record is forty per cent., and hers ninety-six--most extraordinary: so that
it is clear that this creature is the protégée of someone, and favouritism is in the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her book of books is the Old Testament. Sometimes, at noon or afternoon, I may look abroad
from the roof or galleries, and see a remote figure sitting on the sward under the shade of
plane or black cypress: and I always know that the book she cons there is the Bible--like an
old Rabbi. She has a passion for stories: and there finds a store.

Three nights since when it was pretty late, and the moon very splendid, I saw her passing homewards
close to the lake, and shouted down to her, meaning to say 'Good-night'; but she thought that
I had called her, and came: and sitting out on the top step we talked for hours, she without
the yashmak.

We fell to talking about the Bible. And says she: 'What did Cain to Abel?'

'He knocked him over,' I replied, liking sometimes to use such idioms, with the double object
of teaching and perplexing her.

'Over what?' says she.

'Over his heels,' said I.

'I do not complehend!'

'He killed him, then.'

'That I know. But how did Abel feel when he was killed? What is it to be killed?'

'Well,' said I, 'you have seen bones all around you, and the bones of your mother, and you
can feel the bones in your fingers. Your fingers will become mere bone after you are dead,
as die you must. Those bones which you see around you, are, of course, the bones of the men
of whom we often speak: and the same thing happened to them which happens to a fish or a butterfly
when you catch them, and they lie all still.'

'And the men and the butterfly feel the same after they are dead?'

'Precisely the same. They lie in a deep drowse, and dream a nonsense-dream.'

'That is not dleadful. I thought that it was much more dleadful. I should not mind dying.'

'Ah!... so much the better: for it is possible that you may have to die a great deal sooner
than you think.'

'I should not mind. Why were men so vely aflaid to die?'

'Because they were all such shocking cowards.'

'Oh, not all! not all!'

(This girl, I know not with what motive, has now definitely set herself up against me as the
defender of the dead race. With every chance she is at it.)

'Nearly all,' said I: 'tell me one who was not afraid--'

'There was Isaac,' says she: 'when Ablaham laid him on the wood to kill him, he did not jump
up and lun to hide.'

'Isaac was a great exception,' said I: 'in the Bible and such books, you understand, you read
of only the best sorts of people; but there were millions and millions of others--especially
about the time of the poison-cloud--on a very much lower level--putrid wretches--covetous,
false, murderous, mean, selfish, debased, hideous, diseased, making the earth a very charnel
of festering vices and crimes.'

This, for several minutes, she did not answer, sitting with her back half toward me, cracking
almonds, continually striking one step with the ball of her outstretched foot. In the clarid
gold of the platform I saw her fez and corals reflected as an elongated blotch of florid red.
She turned and drank some wine from the great gold Jarvan goblet which I had brought from the
temple of Boro Budor, her head quite covered in by it. Then, the little hairs at her lip-corners
still wet, says she:

'Vices and climes, climes and vices. Always the same. What were these climes and vices?'

'Robberies of a hundred sorts, murders of ten hundred--'

'But what made them do them?'

'Their evil nature--their base souls.'

'But you are one of them, I am another: yet you and I live here together, and we do no vices
and climes.'

Her astounding shrewdness! Right into the inmost heart of a matter does her simple wit seem
to pierce!

'No,' I said, 'we do no vices and crimes, because we lack motive. There is no danger that we
should hate each other, for we have plenty to eat and drink, dates, wines, and thousands of
things. (Our danger is rather the other way.) But they hated and schemed, because they were
very numerous, and there arose a question among them of dates and wine.'

'Was there not, then, enough land to grow dates and wine for all?'

'There was--yes: much more than enough, I fancy. But some got hold of a vast lot of it, and
as the rest felt the pinch of scarcity, there arose, naturally, a pretty state of things--including
the vices and crimes.'

'Ah, but then,' says she, 'it was not to their bad souls that the vices and climes were due,
but only to this question of land. It is certain that if there had been no such question, there
would have been no vices and climes, because you and I, who are just like them, do no vices
and climes here, where there is no such question.'

The clear limelight of her intelligence! She wriggled on her seat in her effort of argument.

'I am not going to argue the matter,' I said. 'There was that question of dates and wine, you
see. And there always must be on an earth where millions of men, with varying degrees of cunning,
reside.'

'Oh, not at all necessalily!' she cries with conviction: 'not at all, at all: since there are
much more dates and wine than are enough for all. If there should spling up more men now, having
the whole wisdom, science, and expelience of the past at their hand, and they made an allangement
among themselves that the first man who tlied to take more than he could work for should be
killed, and sent to dleam a nonsense-dleam, the question could never again alise!'

'It arose before--it would arise again.'

'But no! I can guess clearly how it alose before: it alose thlough the sheer carelessness of
the first men. The land was at first so vely, vely much more than enough for all, that the
men did not take the tlouble to make an allangement among themselves; and afterwards the habit
of carelessness was confirmed; till at last the vely oliginal carelessness must have got to
have the look of an allangement; and so the stleam which began in a little long ended in a
big long, the long glowing more and more fixed and fatal as the stleam lolled further flom
the source. I see it clearly, can't you? But now, if some more men would spling, they would
be taught--'

'Ah, but no more men will spling, you see--!'

'There is no telling. I sometimes feel as if they must, and shall. The tlees blossom, the thunder
lolls, the air makes me lun and leap, the glound is full of lichness, and I hear the voice
of the Lord God walking all among the tlees of the folests.'

As she said this, I saw her under-lip push out and tremble, as when she is near to crying,
and her eyes moisten: but a moment after she looked at me full, and smiled, so mobile is her
face: and as she looked, it suddenly struck me what a noble temple of a brow the creature has,
almost pointed at the uplifted summit, and widening down like a bell-curved Gothic arch, draped
in strings of frizzy hair which anon she shakes backward with her head.

'Clodagh,' I said after some minutes--'do you know why I called you Clodagh?'

'No? Tell me?'

'Because once, long ago before the poison-cloud, I had a lover called Clodagh: and she was a....'

'But tell me first,' cries she: 'how did one know one's lover, or one's wife, flom all the others?'

'Well, by their faces....'

'But there must have been many faces--all alike--'

'Not all alike. Each was different from the rest.'

'Still, it must have been vely clever to tell. I can hardly conceive any face, except yours
and mine.'

'Ah, because you are a little goose, you see.'

'What was a goose like?'

'It was a thing like a butterfly, only larger, and it kept its toes always spread out, with
a skin stretched between.'

'Leally? How caplicious! And am I like that?--but what were you saying that your lover, Clodagh,
was?'

'She was a Poisoner.'

'Then why call me Clodagh, since I am not a poisoner?'

'I call you so to remind me: lest you--lest you--should become my--lover, too.'

'I am your lover already: for I love you.'

'What, girl?'

'Do I not love you, who are mine?'

'Come, come, don't be a little maniac!' I went. 'Clodagh was a poisoner....'

'Why did she poison? Had she not enough dates and wine?'

'She had, yes: but she wanted more, more, more, the silly idiot.'

'So that the vices and climes were not confined to those that lacked things, but were done
by the others, too?'

'By the others chiefly.'

'Then I see how it was!'

'How was it?'

'The others had got spoiled. The vices and climes must have begun with those who lacked things,
and then the others, always seeing vices and climes alound them, began to do them, too--as
when one rotten olive is in a bottle, the whole mass soon becomes collupted: but originally
they were not rotten, but only became so. And all though a little carelessness at the first.
I am sure that if more men could spling now--'

'But I told you, didn't I, that no more men will spring? You understand, Clodagh, that originally
the earth produced men by a long process, beginning with a very low type of creature, and continually
developing it, until at last a man stood up. But that can never happen again: for the earth
is old, old, and has lost her producing vigour now. So talk no more of men splinging, and of
things which you do not understand. Instead, go inside--stop, I will tell you a secret: to-day
in the wood I picked some musk-roses and wound them into a wreath, meaning to give them you
for your head when you came to-morrow: and it is inside on the pearl tripod in the second room
to the left: go, therefore, and put it on, and bring the harp, and play to me, my dear.'

She ran quick with a little cry, and coming again, sat crowned, incarnadine in the blushing
depths of the gold. Nor did I send her home to her lonely yali, till the pale and languished
moon, weary of all-night beatitudes, sank down soft-couched in quilts of curdling opals to
the Hesperian realms of her rest.

So sometimes we speak together, she and I, she and I.

       *       *       *       *       *

That ever I should write such a thing! I am driven out from Imbros!

I was walking up in a wood yesterday to the west--it was a calm clear evening about seven,
the sun having just set. I had the book in which I have written so far in my hand, for I had
thought of making a sketch of an old windmill to the north-west to show her. Twenty minutes
before she had been with me, for I had chanced to meet her, and she had come, but kept darting
on ahead after peeping fruit, gathering armfuls of amaranth, nenuphar, and red-berried asphodel,
till, weary of my life, I had called to her: 'Go away! out of my sight'--and she, with suddenly
pushed under-lip, had walked off.

Well, I was continuing my stroll, when I seemed to feel some quaking of the ground, and before
one could count twenty, it was as if the island was bent upon wracking itself to pieces. My
first thought was of her, and in great scare I went running, calling in the direction which
she had gone, staggering as on the deck of some labouring ship, falling, picking myself up,
running again. The air was quite full of uproar, and the land waving like the sea: and as I
went plunging, not knowing whither, I saw to my right some three or four acres of forest droop
and sink into a gulf which opened to receive them. Up I flung my arms, crying out: 'Good God!
save the girl!' and a minute later rushed out, to my surprise, into open space on a hill-side.
On the lower ground I could see the palace, and beyond it, a small space of white sea which
had the awful appearance of being higher than the land. Down the hill-side I staggered, driven
by the impulse to fly somewhither, but about half way down was startled afresh by a shrill
pattering like musical hail, and the next moment saw the entire palace rush with the jangling
clatter of a thousand bells into the heaving lake.

Some seconds after this, the earthquake, having lasted fully ten minutes, began to lull, and
soon ceased. I found her an hour later standing among the ruins of her little yali.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, what a thing! Probably every building on the island has been destroyed; the palace-platform,
all cracked, leans half-sunken askew into the lake, like a huge stranded ark, while of the
palace itself no trace remains, except a mound of gold stones emerging above the lake to the
south. Gone, gone--sixteen years of vanity and vexation. But from a practical point of view,
what is a worst calamity of all is that the Speranza now lies high-and-dry in the village:
for she was bodily picked up from the quay by the tidal wave, and driven bow-foremost into
a street not half her width, and there now lies, looking huge enough in the little village,
wedged for ever, smashed in at the nip like a frail match-box, a most astonishing spectacle:
her bows forty feet up the street, ten feet above the ground at the stem, rudder resting on
the inner edge of the quay, foremast tilted forward, the other two masts all right, and that
bottom, which has passed through seas so far, buried in every sort of green and brown seaweed,
the old Speranza. Her steps were there, and by a slight leap I could catch them underneath
and go up hand-over-hand, till I got foothold; this I did at ten the same night when the sea-water
had mostly drained back from the land, leaving everything very swampy, however; she there with
me, and soon following me upon the ship. I found most things cracked into tiny fragments, twisted,
disfigured out of likeness, the house-walls themselves displaced a little at the nip, the bow
of the cedar skiff smashed in to her middle against the aft starboard corner of the galley;
and were it not for the fact that the air-pinnace had not broken from her heavy ropings, and
one of the compasses still whole, I do not know what I should have done: for the four old water-logged
boats in the cove have utterly disappeared.

I made her sleep on the cabin-floor amid the débris of berth and everything, and I myself slept
high up in the wood to the west. I am writing now lying in the long-grass the morning after,
the sun rising, though I cannot see him. My plan for to-day is to cut three or four logs with
the saw, lay them on the ground by the ship, lower the pinnace upon them, so get her gradually
down into the water, and by evening bid a long farewell to Imbros, which drives me out in this
way. Still, I look forward with pleasure to our hour's run to the Mainland, when I shall teach
her to steer by the compass, and manipulate liquid-air, as I have taught her to dress, to talk,
to cook, to write, to think, to live. For she is my creation, this creature: as it were, a
'rib from my side.'

But what is the design of this expulsion? And what was it that she called it last night?--'this
new going out flom Halan'! 'Haran,' I believe, being the place from which Abraham went out,
when 'called' by God.

       *       *       *       *       *

We apparently felt only the tail of the earthquake at Imbros: for it has ravaged Turkey! And
we two poor helpless creatures put down here in the theatre of all these infinite violences:
it is too bad, too bad. For the rages of Nature at present are perfectly astonishing, and what
it may come to I do not know. When we came to the Macedonian coast in good moonlight, we sailed
along it, and up the Dardanelles, looking out for village, yali, or any habitation where we
might put up: but everything has apparently been wrecked. We saw Kilid-Bahr, Chanak-Kaleh,
Gallipoli, Lapsaki in ruins; at the last place I landed, leaving her in the boat, and walked
a little way, but soon went back with the news that there was not even a bazaar-arch left standing
whole, in most parts even the line of the streets being obliterated, for the place had fallen
like a house of dice, and had then been shaken up and jumbled. Finally we slept in a forest
on the other side of the strait, beyond Gallipoli, taking our few provisions, and having to
wade at some points through morass a foot deep before we reached dry woodland.

Here, the next morning, I sat alone--for we had slept separated by at least half a mile--thinking
out the question of whither I should go: my choice would have been to remain either in the
region where I was, or to go Eastward: but the region where I was offered no dwelling that
I could see; and to go any distance Eastward, I needed a ship. Of ships I had seen during the
night only wrecks, nor did I know where to find one in all these latitudes. I was thus, like
her 'Ablaham,' urged Westward.

In order, then, to go Westward, I first went a little further Eastward, once more entered the
Golden Horn, and once more mounted the scorched Seraglio steps. Here what the wickedness of
man had spared, the wickedness of Nature had destroyed, and the few houses which I had left
standing round the upper part of Pera I now saw low as the rest; also the house near the Suleimanieh,
where we had lived our first days, to which I went as to a home, I found without a pillar standing;
and that night she slept under the half-roof of a little funeral-kiosk in the scorched cypress-wood
of Eyoub, and I a mile away, at the edge of the forest where first I saw her.

The next morning, having met, as agreed, at the site of the Prophet's mosque, we traversed
together the valley and cemetery of Kassim by the quagmires up to Pera, all the landscape having
to me a rather twisted unfamiliar aspect. We had determined to spend the morning in searching
for supplies among the earthquake-ruins of Pera; and as I had decided to collect sufficient
in one day to save us further pains for some time, we passed a good many hours in this task,
I confining myself to the great white house in the park overlooking Kassim, where I had once
slept, losing myself in the huge obliquities of its floors, roofs and wall-fragments, she going
to the old Mussulman quarter of Djianghir near, on the heights of Taxim, where were many shops,
and thence round the brow of the hill to the great French Embassy-house, overlooking Foundoucli
and the sea, both of us having large Persian carpet-bags, and all in the air of that wilderness
of ruin that morning a sweet, strong, permanent odour of maple-blossom.

We met toward evening, she quivering under such a load, that I would not let her carry it,
but abandoned my day's labour, which was lighter, and took hers, which was quite enough: we
went back Westward, seeking all the while some shelter from the saturating night-dews of this
place: and nothing could we find, till we came again, quite late, to her broken funeral-kiosk
at the entrance to the immense cemetery-avenue of Eyoub. There without a word I left her among
the shattered catafalques, for I was weary; but having gone some distance, turned back, thinking
that I might take some more raisins from the bag; and after getting them, said to her, shaking
her little hand where she sat under the roof-shadow on a stone:

'Good-night, Clodagh.'

She did not answer promptly: and her answer, to my surprise, was a protest against her name:
for a rather sulky, yet gentle, voice came from the darkness, saying:

'I am not a Poisoner!'

'Well,' said I, 'all right: tell me whatever you like that I should call you, and henceforth
I will call you that.'

'Call me Eve,' says she.

'Well, no,' said I, 'not Eve, anything but that: for my name is Adam, and if I called you Eve,
that would be simply absurd, and we do not want to be ridiculous in each other's eyes. But
I will call you anything else that you like.'

'Call me Leda,' says she.

'And why Leda?' said I.

'Because Leda sounds something like Clodagh,' says she, 'and you are al-leady in the habit
of calling me Clodagh; and I saw the name Leda in a book, and liked it: but Clodagh is most
hollible, most bitterly hollible!'

'Well, then,' said I, 'Leda it shall be, and I shan't forget, for I like it, too, and it suits
you, and you ought to have a name beginning with an "L." Good-night, my dear, sleep well, and
dream, dream.'

'And to you, too, my God give dleams of peace and pleasantness,' says she; and I went.

And it was only when I had lain myself upon leaves for my bed, my head on my caftan, a rill
for my lullaby, and two stars, which alone I could see out of the heavenful, for my watch-lights;
and only when my eyes were already closed toward slumber, that a sudden strong thought pierced
and woke me: for I remembered that Leda was the name of a Greek woman who had borne twins.
In fact, I should not be surprised if this Greek word Leda is the same word etymologically
as the Hebrew Eve, for I have heard of v's, and b's, and d's interchanging about in this way,
and if Di, meaning God, or Light, and Bi, meaning Life, and Iove, and Ihovah and God, meaning
much the same, are all one, that would be nothing astonishing to me, as widow, and veuve, are
one: and where it says, 'truly the Light is Good (tob, bon),' this is as if it said, 'truly
the Di is Di.' Such, at any rate, is the fatality that attends me, even in the smallest things:
for this Western Eve, or Greek Leda, had twins.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, the next morning we crossed by the ruins of old Greek Phanar across the triple Stamboul-wall,
which still showed its deep-ivied portal, and made our way, not without climbing, along the
Golden Horn to the foot of the Old Seraglio, where I soon found signs of the railway. And that
minute commenced our journey across Turkey, Bulgaria, Servia, Bosnia, Croatia, to Trieste,
occupying no day or two as in old times, but four months, a long-drawn nightmare, though a
nightmare of rich happiness, if one may say so, leaving on the memory a vague vast impression
of monstrous ravines, ever-succeeding profundities, heights and greatnesses, jungles strange
as some moon-struck poet's fantasy, everlasting glooms, and a sound of mighty unseen rivers,
cataracts, and slow cumbered rills whose bulrushes never see the sun, with largesse everywhere,
secrecies, profusions, the unimaginable, the unspeakable, a savagery most lush and fierce and
gaudy, and vales of Arcadie, and remote mountain-peaks, and tarns shy as old-buried treasure,
and glaciers, and we two human folk pretty small and drowned and lost in all that amplitude,
yet moving always through it.

We followed the lines that first day till we came to a steam train, and I found the engine
fairly good, and everything necessary to move it at my hand: but the metals in such a condition
of twisted, broken, vaulted, and buried confusion, due to the earthquake, that, having run
some hundreds of yards to examine them, I saw that nothing could be done in that way. At first
this threw me into a condition like despair, for what we were to do I did not know: but after
persevering on foot for four days along the deep-rusted track, which is of that large-gauge
type peculiar to Eastern Europe, I began to see that there were considerable sound stretches,
and took heart.

I had with me land-charts and compass, but nothing for taking altitude-observations: for the
Speranza instruments, except one compass, had all been broken-up by her shock. However, on
getting to the town of Silivri, about thirty miles from our start, I saw in the ruins of a
half-standing bazaar-shop a number of brass objects, and there found several good sextants,
quadrants, and theodolites. Two mornings later, we came upon an engine in mid-country, with
coals in it, and a stream near; I had a goat-skin of almond-oil in the bag, and found the machinery
serviceable after an hour's careful inspection, having examined the boiler with a candle through
the manhole, and removed the autoclaves of the heaters. All was red with rust, and the shaft
of the connecting-rod in particular seemed so frail, that at one moment I was very dubious:
I decided, however, and, except for a slight leakage at the tubulure which led the steam to
the valve-chest, all went very well; at a pressure never exceeding three-and-a-half atmospheres,
we travelled nearly a hundred and twenty miles before being stopped by a head-to-head block
on the line, when we had to abandon our engine; we then continued another seven miles a-foot,
I all the time mourning my motor, which I had had to leave at Imbros, and hoping at every townlet
to find a whole one, but in vain.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was wonderful to see the villages and towns going back to the earth, already invaded by
vegetation, and hardly any longer breaking the continuity of pure Nature, the town now as much
the country as the country, and that which is not-Man becoming all in all with a certain furore
of vigour. A whole day in the southern gorges of the Balkan Mountains the slow train went tearing
its way through many a mile of bind-weed tendrils, a continuous curtain, flaming with large
flowers, but sombre as the falling shades of night, rather resembling jungles of Ceylon and
the Filipinas; and she, that day, lying in the single car behind, where I had made her a little
yatag-bed from Tatar Bazardjik, continually played the kittur, barely touching the strings,
and crooning low, low, in her rich contralto, eternally the same air, over and over again,
crooning, crooning, some melancholy tune of her own dreaming, just audible to me through the
slow-travailing monotony of the engine; till I was drunken with so sweet a woe, my God, a woe
that was sweet as life, and a dolour that lulled like nepenthe, and a grief that soothed like
kisses, so sweet, so sweet, that all that world of wood and gloom lost locality and realness
for me, and became nothing but a charmed and pensive Heaven for her to moan and lullaby in;
and from between my fingers streamed plenteous tears that day, and all that I could keep on
mourning was 'O Leda, O Leda, O Leda,' till my heart was near to break.

The feed-pump eccentric-shaft of this engine, which was very poor and flaky, suddenly gave
out about five in the afternoon, and I had to stop in a hurry, and that sweet invisible mechanism
which had crooned and crooned about my ears in the air, and followed me whithersoever I went,
stopped too. Down she jumped, calling out:

'Well, I had a plesentiment that something would happen, and I am so glad, for I was tired!'

Seeing that nothing could be done with the feed-water pump, I got down, took the bag, and parting
before us the continuous screen, we went pioneering to the left between a rock-cleft, stepping
over large stones that looked black with moss-growths, no sky, but hundreds of feet of impenetrable
leafage overhead, and everywhere the dew-dabbled profusion of dim ferneries, dishevelled maidenhairs
mixed with a large-leaved mimosa, wild vine, white briony, and a smell of cedar, and a soft
rushing of perpetual waters that charmed the gloaming. The way led slightly upwards three hundred
feet, and presently, after some windings, and the climbing of five huge steps almost regular,
yet obviously natural, the gorge opened in a roundish space, fifty feet across, with far overhanging
edges seven hundred feet high; and there, behind a curtain which fell from above, its tendrils
defined and straight like a Japanese bead-hanging, we spread the store of foods, I opening
the wines, fruits, vegetables and meats, she arranging them in order with the gold plate, and
lighting both the spirit-lamp and the lantern: for here it was quite dark. Near us behind the
curtain of tendrils was a small green cave in the rock, and at its mouth a pool two yards wide,
a black and limpid water that leisurely wheeled, discharging a little rivulet from the cave:
and in it I saw three owl-eyed fish, a finger long, loiter, and spur themselves, and gaze.
Leda, who cannot be still in tongue or limb, chattered in her glib baby manner as we ate, and
then, after smoking a cigarette, said that she would go and 'lun,' and went, and left me darkling,
for she is the sun and the moon and the host of the stars, I occupying myself that night in
making a calendar at the end of this book in which I have written, for my almanack and many
things that I prized were lost with the palace--making a calendar, counting the days in my
head--but counting them across my thoughts of her.

She came again to tell me good-night, and then went down to the train to sleep; and I put out
the lantern, and stooped within the cave, and made my simple couch beside the little rivulet,
and slept.

But a fitful sleep, and soon again I woke; and a long time I lay so, gradually becoming conscious
of a slow dripping at one spot in the cave: for at a minute's interval it darkly splashed,
regularly, very deliberately; and it seemed to grow always louder and sadder, and the splash
at first was 'Leesha,' but it became 'Leda' to my ears, and it sobbed her name, and I pitied
myself, so sad was I. And when I could no longer bear the anguished melancholy of its spasm
and its sobbing, I arose and went softly, softly, lest she should hear in that sounding silence
of the hushed and darksome night, going more slow, more soft, as I went nearer, a sob in my
throat, my feet leading me to her, till I touched the carriage. And against it a long time
I leant my clammy brow, a sob aching in my poor throat, and she all mixed up in my head with
the suspended hushed night, and with the elfin things in the air that made the silence so musically
a-sound to the vacant ear-drum, and with the dripping splash in the cave. And softly I turned
the door-handle, and heard her breathe in Asleep, her head near me; and I touched her hair
with my lips, and close to her ear I said--for I heard her breathe as if in sleep--'Little
Leda, I have come to you, for I could not help it, Leda: and oh, my heart is full of the love
of you, for you are mine, and I am yours: and to live with you, till we die, and after we are
dead to be near you still, Leda, with my broken heart near your heart, little Leda--'

I must have sobbed, I think; for as I spoke close at her ears, with passionately dying eyes
of love, I was startled by an irregularity in her breathing; and with cautious hurry I shut
the door, and quite back to the cave I stole in haste.

And the next morning when we met I thought--but am not now sure--that she smiled singularly:
I thought so. She may, she may, have heard--But I cannot tell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twice I was obliged to abandon engines on account of forest-tree obstructions right across
the line, which, do what I might, I could not move, and these were the two bitterest incidents
of the pilgrimage; and at least thirty times I changed from engine to engine, when other trains
blocked. As for the extent of the earthquake, it is pretty certain that it was universal over
the Peninsula, and at many points exhibited extreme violence, for up to the time that we entered
upon Servian territory, we occasionally came upon stretches of the lines so dislocated, that
it was impossible to proceed upon them, and during the whole course I never saw one intact
house or castle; four times, where the way was of a nature to permit of it, I left the imbedded
metals and made the engine travel the ground till I came upon other metals, when I always succeeded
in driving it upon them. It was all very leisurely, for not everywhere, nor every day, could
I get a nautical observation, and having at all times to go at low pressures for fear of tube
and boiler weakness, crawling through tunnels, and stopping when total darkness came on, we
did not go fast, nor much cared to. Once, moreover, for three days, and once for four, we were
overtaken by hurricanes of such vast inclemency, that no thought of travelling entered our
heads, our only care being to hide our poor cowering bodies as deeply and darkly as possible.
Once I passed through a city (Adrianople) doubly devastated, once by the hellish arson of my
own hand, and once by the earthquake: and I made haste to leave that place behind me.

Finally, three months and twenty-seven days from the date of the earthquake, having traversed
only 900 odd English miles, I let go in the Venice lagoon, in the early morning of the 10th
September, the lateen sail and stone anchor of a Maltese speronare, which I had found, and
partially cleaned, at Trieste; and thence I passed up the Canalazzo in a gondola. For I said
to Leda: 'In Venice will I pitch my Patriarch tent.'

But to will and to do are not the same thing, and still further Westward was I driven. For
the stagnant upper canals of this place are now mere miasmas of pestilence: and within two
days I was rolling with fever in the Old Procurazie Palace, she standing in pale wonderment
at my bed-side, sickness quite a novel thing to her: and, indeed, this was my first serious
illness since my twentieth year or thereabouts, when I had over-worked my brain, and went a
voyage to Constantinople. I could not move from bed for some weeks, but happily did not lose
my senses, and she brought me the whole pharmacopoeia from the shops, from which to choose
my medicines. I guessed the cause of this illness, though not a sign of it came near her, and
as soon as my trembling knees could bear me, I again set out--always Westward--enjoying now
a certain luxury in travelling compared with that Turkish difficulty, for here were no twisted
metals, more and better engines, in the cities as many good petrol motors as I chose, and Nature
markedly less savage.

I do not know why I did not stop at Verona or Brescia, or some other neighbourhood of the Italian
lakes, since I was fond of water: but I had, I think, the thought in my head to return to Vauclaire
in France, where I had lived, and there live: for I thought that she might like those old monks.
At all events, we did not remain long in any place till we came to Turin, where we spent nine
days, she in the house opposite mine, and after that, at her own suggestion, went on still,
passing by train into the valley of the Isère, and then into that of the Western Rhone, till
we came to the old town of Geneva among some very great mountains peaked with snow, the town
seated at the head of a long lake which the earth has made in the shape of the crescent moon,
and like the moon it is a thing of much beauty and many moods, suggesting a creature under
the spell of charms and magics. However, with this idea of Vauclaire still in my head, we left
Geneva in the motor which had brought us at four in the afternoon of the 17th May, I intending
to reach the town called Bourg that night about eight, and there sleep, so to go on to Lyons
the next morning by train, and so, by the Bordeaux route, make Vauclaire. But by some chance
for which I cannot to this hour account (unless the rain was the cause), I missed the chart-road,
which should have been fairly level, and found myself on mountain tracks, unconscious of my
whereabouts, while darkness fell, and a windless downpour that had a certain sullen venom in
its superabundance drenched us. I stopped several times, looking about for château, chalet,
or village, but none did I see, though I twice came upon railway lines; and not till midnight
did we run down a rather steep pass upon the shore of a lake, which, from its apparent vastness
in the moonless obscurity, I could only suppose to be the Lake of Geneva once again. About
two hundred yards to the left we saw through the rain a large pile, apparently risen straight
out of the lake, looking ghostly livid, for it was of white stone, not high, but an old thing
of complicated white little turrets roofed with dark red candle extinguishers, and oddities
of Gothic nooks, window slits, and outline, very like a fanciful picture. Round to this we
went, drowned as rats, Leda sighing and bedraggled, and found a narrow spit of low land projecting
into the lake, where we left the car, walked forward with the bag, crossed a small wooden drawbridge,
and came upon a rocky island with a number of thick-foliaged trees about the castle. We quickly
found a small open portal, and went throughout the place, quite gay at the shelter, everywhere
lighting candles which we found in iron sconces in the rather queer apartments: so that, as
the castle is far seen from the shores of the lake, it would have appeared to one looking thence
a place suddenly possessed and haunted. We found beds, and slept: and the next day it turned
out to be the antique Castle of Chillon, where we remained five long and happy months, till
again, again, Fate overtook us.

       *       *       *       *       *

The morning after our coming, we had breakfast--our last meal together--on the first floor
in a pentagonal room approached from a lower level by three little steps. In it is a ponderous
oak table pierced with a multitude of worm eaten tunnels, also three mighty high backed chairs,
an old oak desk covered still with papers, arras on the walls, and three dark religious oil
paintings, and a grandfathers clock: it is at about the middle of the château, and contains
two small, but deep, three faced oriels, in each face four compartments with white stone shafts
between, these looking south upon shrubs and the rocky edge of the island, then upon the deep
blue lake, then upon another tiny island containing four trees in a jungle of flowers, then
upon the shore of the lake interrupted by the mouths of a river which turned out to be the
Rhone, then upon a white town on the slopes which turned out to be Villeneuve, then upon the
great mountains back of Bouveret and St. Gingolph, all having the surprised air of a resurrection
just completed, everything new washed in dyes of azure, ultramarine, indigo, snow, emerald,
that fresh morning: so that one had to call it the best and holiest place in the world. These
five old room walls, and oak floor, and two oriels, became specially mine, though it was really
common ground to us both, and there I would do many little things. The papers on the desk told
that it had been the bureau of one R.E. Gaud, 'Grand Bailli,' whose residence the place no
doubt had been.

She asked me while eating that morning to stay here, and I said that I would see, though with
misgiving: so together we went all about the house, and finding it unexpectedly spacious, I
consented to stop. At both ends are suites, mostly small rooms, infinitely quaint and cosy,
furnished with heavy Henri Quatre furniture and bed draperies; and there are separate, and
as it were secret, spiral stairs for exit to each: so we decided that she should have the suite
overlooking the length of the lake, the mouths of the Rhone, Bouveret and Villeneuve; and I
should have that overlooking the spit of land behind and the little drawbridge, shore cliffs,
and elmwood which comes down to the shore, giving at one point a glimpse of the diminutive
hamlet of Chillon; and, that decided, I took her hand in mine, and I said:

'Well, then, here we stay, both under the same roof--for the first time. Leda, I will not explain
why to you, but it is dangerous, so much so that it may mean the death of one or other of us:
deadly, deadly dangerous, my poor girl. You do not understand, but that is the fact, believe
me, for I know it very well, and I would not tell you false. Well, then, you will easily comprehend,
that this being so, you must never on any account come near my part of the house, nor will
I come near yours. Lately we have been very much together, but then we have been active, full
of purpose and occupation: here we shall be nothing of the kind, I can see. You do not understand
at all--but things are so. We must live perfectly separate lives, then. You are nothing to
me, really, nor I to you, only we live on the same earth, which is nothing at all--a mere chance.
Your own food, clothes, and everything that you want, you will procure for yourself: it is
perfectly easy: the shores are crowded with mansions, castles, towns and villages; and I will
do the same for myself. The motor down there I set apart for your private use: if I want another,
I will get one; and to-day I will set about looking you up a boat and fishing tackle, and cut
a cross on the bow of yours, so that you may know yours, and never use mine. All this is very
necessary: you cannot dream how much: but I know how much. Do not run any risks in climbing,
now, or with the motor, or in the boat ... little Leda ...'

I saw her under-lip push, and I turned away in haste, for I did not care whether she cried
or not. In that long voyage, and in my illness at Venice, she had become too near and dear
to me, my tender love, my dear darling soul; and I said in my heart: 'I will be a decent being:
I will turn out trumps.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Under this castle is a sort of dungeon, not narrow, nor very dark, in which are seven stout
dark-grey pillars, and an eighth, half-built into the wall; and one of them which has an iron
ring, as well as the ground around it, is all worn away by some prisoner or prisoners once
chained there; and in the pillar the word 'Byron' engraved. This made me remember that a poet
of that name had written something about this place, and two days afterwards I actually came
upon three volumes of the poet in a room containing a great number of books, many of them English,
near the Grand Bailli's bureau: and in one I read the poem, which is called 'The Prisoner of
Chillon.' I found it very affecting, and the description good, only I saw no seven rings, and
where he speaks of the 'pale and livid light,' he should speak rather of the dun and brownish
gloom, for the word 'light' disconcerts the fancy, and of either pallor or blue there is there
no sign. However, I was so struck by the horror of man's cruelty to man, as depicted in this
poem, that I determined that she should see it; went up straight to her rooms with the book,
and, she being away, ferreted among her things to see what she was doing, finding all very
neat, except in one room where were a number of prints called La Mode, and débris of snipped
cloth, and medley. When, after two hours, she came in, and I suddenly presented myself, 'Oh!'
she let slip, and then fell to cooing her laugh; and I took her down through a big room stacked
with every kind of rifle, with revolvers, cartridges, powder, swords, bayonets--evidently some
official or cantonal magazine--and then showed her the worn stone in the dungeon, the ring,
the narrow deep slits in the wall, and I told the tale of cruelty, while the splashing of the
lake upon the rock outside was heard with a strange and tragic sound, and her mobile face was
all one sorrow.

'How cruel they must have been!' cries she with tremulous lip, her face at the same time reddened
with indignation.

'They were mere beastly monsters,' said I: 'it is nothing surprising if monsters were cruel.'

And in the short time while I said that, she was looking up with a new-born smile.

'Some others came and set the plisoner flee!' cries she.

'Yes,' said I, 'they did, but--'

'That was good of them,' says she.

'Yes,' said I, 'that was all right, so far as it went.'

'And it was a time when men had al-leady become cluel,' says she: 'if those who set him flee
were so good when all the lest were cluel, what would they have been at a time when all the
lest were kind? They would have been just like Angels....!'

       *       *       *       *       *

At this place fishing, and long rambles, were the order of the day, both for her and for me,
especially fishing, though a week rarely passed which did not find me at Bouveret, St. Gingolph,
Yvoire, Messery, Nyon, Ouchy, Vevay, Montreux, Geneva, or one of the two dozen villages, townlets,
or towns, that crowd the shores, all very pretty places, each with its charm, and mostly I
went on foot, though the railway runs right round the forty odd miles of the lake's length.
One noon-day I was walking through the main-street of Vevay going on to the Cully-road when
I had a fearful shock, for in a shop just in front of me to the right I heard a sound--an unmistakable
indication of life--as of clattering metals shaken together. My heart leapt into my mouth,
I was conscious of becoming bloodlessly pale, and on tip-toe of exquisite caution I stole up
to the open door--peeped in--and it was she standing on the counter of a jeweller's shop, her
back turned to me, with head bent low over a tray of jewels in her hands, which she was rummaging
for something. I went 'Hoh!' for I could not help it, and all that day, till sunset, we were
very dear friends, for I could not part from her, we walking together by vor-alpen, wood, and
shore all the way to Ouchy, she just like a creature crazy that day with the bliss of living,
rolling in grasses and perilous flowery declines, stamping her foot defiantly at me, arrogant
queen that she is, and then running like mad for me to catch her, with laughter, abandon, carolling
railleries, and the levity of the wild ass's colt on the hills, entangling her loose-flung
hair with Bacchic tendril and blossom, and drinking, in the passage through Cully, more wine,
I thought, than was good: and the flaming darts of lightning that shot and shocked me that
day, and the inner secret gleams and revelations of Beauty which I had, and the pangs of white-hot
honey that tortured my soul and body, and were too much for me, and made me sick, oh Heaven,
what tongue could express all that deep world of things? And at Ouchy with a backward wave
of my arm I silently motioned her from me, for I was dumb, and weak, and I left her there:
and all that long night her power was upon me, for she is stronger than gravitation, which
may be evaded, and than all the forces of life combined, and the sun and the moon and the earth
are nothing compared with her; and when she was gone from me I was like a fish in the air,
or like a bird in the deep, for she is my element of life, made for me to breathe in, and I
drown without her: so that for many hours I lay on that grassy hill leading to the burial-ground
outside Ouchy that night, like a man sore wounded, biting the grass.

What made things worse for me was her adoption of European clothes since coming to this place:
I believe that, in her adroit way, she herself made some of her dresses, for one day I saw
in her apartments a number of coloured fashion-plates, with a confusion like dress-making;
or she may have been only modifying finished things from the shops, for her Western dressing
is not quite like what I remember of the modern female style, but is really, I should say,
quite her own, rather resembling the Greek, or the eighteenth century. At any rate, the airs
and graces are as natural to her as feathers to parrots; and she has changes like the moon;
never twice the same, and always transcending her last phase and revelation: for I could not
have conceived of anyone in whom taste was a faculty so separate as in her, so positive and
salient, like smelling or sight--more like smelling: for it is the faculty, half Reason, half
Imagination, by which she fore-scents precisely what will suit exquisitely with what; so that
every time I saw her, I received the impression of a perfectly novel, completely bewitching,
work of Art: the special quality of works of Art being to produce the momentary conviction
that anything else whatever could not possibly be so good.

Occasionally, from my window I would see her in the wood beyond the drawbridge, cool and white
in green shade, with her Bible probably, training her skirt like a court-lady, and looking
much taller than before. I believe that this new dressing produced a separation between us
more complete than it might have been; and especially after that day between Vevay and Ouchy
I was very careful not to meet her. The more I saw that she bejewelled herself, powdered herself,
embalmed herself like sachets of sweet scents, chapleted her Greek-dressed head with gold fillets,
the more I shunned her. Myself, somehow, had now resumed European dress, and, ah me, I was
greatly changed, greatly changed, God knows, from the portly inflated monarch-creature that
strutted and groaned four years previously in the palace at Imbros: so that my manner of life
and thought might once more now have been called modern and Western.

All the more was my sense of responsibility awful: and from day to day it seemed to intensify.
An arguing Voice never ceased to remonstrate within me, nor left me peace, and the curse of
unborn hosts appeared to menace me. To strengthen my fixity I would often overwhelm myself,
and her, with muttered opprobriums, calling myself 'convict,' her 'lady-bird'; asking what
manner of man was I that I should dare so great a thing; and as for her, what was she to be
the Mother of a world?--a versatile butterfly with a woman's brow! And continually now in my
fiercer moods I was meditating either my death--or hers.

Ah, but the butterfly did not let me forget her brow! To the south-west of Villeneuve, between
the forest and the river is a well-grown gentian field, and returning from round St. Gingolph
to the Château one day in the third month after an absence of three days, I saw, as I turned
a corner in the descent of the mountain, some object floating in the air above the field. Never
was I more startled, and, above all, perplexed: for, beside the object soaring there like a
great butterfly, I could see nothing to account for it. It was not long, however, before I
came to the conclusion that she has re-invented the kite--for she had almost certainly never
seen one--and I presently sighted her holding the string in the midfield. Her invention resembles
the kind called 'swallow-tail' of old.

       *       *       *       *       *

But mostly it was on the lake that I saw her, for there we chiefly lived, and occasionally
there were guilty approaches and rencontres, she in her boat, I in mine, both being slight
clinker-built Montreux pleasure-boats, which I had spent some days in overhauling and varnishing,
mine with jib, fore-and-aft mainsail, and spanker, hers rather smaller, one-masted, with an
easy-running lug-sail. It was no uncommon thing for me to sail quite to Geneva, and come back
from a seven-days' cruise with my soul filled and consoled with the lake and all its many moods
of bright and darksome, serene and pensive, dolorous and despairing and tragic, at morning,
at noon, at sunset, at midnight, a panorama that never for an instant ceased to unroll its
transformations, I sometimes climbing the mountains as high as the goat-herd region of hoch-alpen,
once sleeping there. And once I was made very ill by a two-weeks' horror which I had: for she
disappeared in her skiff, I being at the Château, and she did not come back; and while she
was away there was a tempest that turned the lake into an angry ocean, and, ah my good God,
she did not come. At last, half-crazy at the vacant days of misery which went by and by, and
she did not come, I set out upon a wild-goose quest, of her--of all the hopeless things the
most hopeless, for the world is great--and I sought and did not find her; and after three days
I turned back, recognising that I was mad to search the infinite, and coming near the Château,
I saw her wave her handkerchief from the island-edge, for she divined that I had gone to seek
her, and she was watching for me: and when I took her hand, what did she say to me, the Biblical
simpleton?--'Oh you of little Faith!' says she. And she had adventures to lisp, with all the
r's liquefied into l's, and I was with her all that day again.

Once a month perhaps she would knock at my outermost door, which I mostly kept locked when
at home, bringing me a sumptuously-dressed, highly-spiced red trout or grayling, which I had
not the heart to refuse, and exquisitely she does them, all hot and spiced, applying apparently
to their preparation the taste which she applies to dress; and her extraordinary luck in angling
did not fail to supply her with the finest specimens, though, for that matter, this lake, with
its old fish-hatcheries and fish-ladders, is not miserly in that way, swarming now with the
best lake trout, river trout, red trout, and with salmon, of which last I have brought in one
with the landing-net of, I should say, thirty-five to forty pounds. As the bottom goes off
very rapidly from the two islands to a depth of eight to nine hundred feet, we did not long
confine ourselves to bottom-fishing, but gradually advanced to every variety of manoeuvre,
doing middle-water spinning with three-triangle flights and sliding lip-hook for jack and trout,
trailing with the sail for salmon, live-baiting with the float for pike, daping with blue-bottles,
casting with artificial flies, and I could not say in which she became the most carelessly
adept, for all soon seemed as old and natural to her as an occupation learned from birth.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 21st October I attained my forty-sixth birthday in excellent health: a day destined
to end for me in bloodshed and tragedy, alas. I forget now what circumstance had caused me
to mention the date long beforehand in, I think, Venice, not dreaming that she would keep any
count of it, nor was I even sure that my calendar was not faulty by a day. But at ten in the
morning of what I called the 21st, descending by my private spiral in flannels with some trout
and par bait, and tackle--I met her coming up, my God, though she had no earthly right to be
there. With her cooing murmur of a laugh, yet pale, pale, and with a most guilty look, she
presented me a large bouquet of wild flowers.

I was at once thrown into a state of great agitation. She was dressed in rather a frippery
of mousseline de soie, all cream-laced, with wide-hanging short sleeves, a large diamond at
the low open neck, the ivory-brown skin there contrasting with the powdered bluish-white of
her face, where, however, the freckles were not quite whited out; on her feet little pink satin
slippers, without any stockings--a divinely pale pink; and well back on her hair a plain thin
circlet of gold; and she smelled like heaven, God knows.

I could not speak. She broke an awkward silence, saying, very faint and pallid:

'It is the day!'

'I--perhaps--' I said, or some incoherency like that.

I saw the touch of enthusiasm which she had summoned up quenched by my manner.

'I have not done long again?' she asked, looking down, breaking another silence.

'No, no, oh no,' said I hurriedly: 'not done wrong again. Only, I could not suppose that you
would count up the days. You are ... considerate. Perhaps--but--'

'Tell Leda?'

'Perhaps.... I was going to say ... you might come fishing with me....'

'O luck!' she went softly.

I was pierced by a sense of my base cowardice, my incredible weakness: but I could not at all
help it.

I took the flowers, and we went down to the south side, where my boat lay; I threw out some
of the fish from the well; arranged the tackle, and then the stern cushions for her; got up
the sails; and out we went, she steering, I in the bows, with every possible inch of space
between us, receiving delicious intermittent whiffs from her of ambergris, frangipane, or some
blending of perfumes, the morning being bright and hot, with very little breeze on the water,
which looked mottled, like colourless water imperfectly mixed with indigo-wash, we making little
headway; so it was some time before I moved nearer her to get the par for fixing on the three-triangle
flight, for I was going to trail for salmon or large lake-trout; and during all that time we
spoke not a word together.

Afterwards I said:

'Who told you that flowers are proper to birthdays? or that birthdays are of any importance?'

'I suppose that nothing can happen so important as birth,' says she: 'and perfumes must be
ploper to birth, because the wise men blought spices to the young Jesus.'

This naïveté was the cause of my immediate recovery: for to laugh is to be saved: and I laughed
right out, saying:

'But you read the Bible too much! all your notions are biblical. You should read the quite
modern books.'

'I have tlied,' says she: 'but I cannot lead them long, nor often. The whole world seems to
have got so collupted. It makes me shudder.'

'Ah, well now, you see, you quite come round to my point of view,' said I.

'Yes, and no,' says she: 'they had got so spoiled, that is all. Everlybody seems to have become
quite dull-witted--the plainest tluths they could not see. I can imagine that those faculties
which aided them in their stlain to become lich themselves, and make the lest more poor, must
have been gleatly sharpened, while all the other faculties withered: as I can imagine a person
with one eye seeing double thlough it, and quite blind on the other side.'

'Ah,' said I, 'I do not think they even wanted to see on the other side. There were some few
tolerably good and clear-sighted ones among them, you know: and these all agreed in pointing
out how, by changing one or two of their old man-in-the-moon Bedlam arrangements, they could
greatly better themselves: but they heard with listless ears: I don't know that they ever made
any considerable effort. For they had become more or less unconscious of their misery, so miserable
were they: like the man in Byron's "Prisoner of Chillon," who, when his deliverers came, was
quiet indifferent, for he says:

  "It was at length the same to me
  Fettered or fetterless to be:
    I had learned to love Despair."'

'Oh my God,' she went, covering her face a moment, 'how dleadful! And it is tlue, it seems
tlue:--they had learned to love Despair, to be even ploud of Despair. Yet all the time, I feel
sure flom what I have lead, flom what I scent, that the individual man was stluggling to see,
to live light, but without power, like one's leg when it is asleep: that is so pletty of them
all! that they meant well--everly one. But they were too tloubled and sad, too awfully burdened:
they had no chance at all. Such a queer, unnatulal feeling it gives me to lead of all that
world: I can't desclibe it; all their motives seem so tainted, their life so lopsided. Tluely,
the whole head was sick, and the whole heart faint.'

'Quite so,' said I: 'and observe that this was no new thing: in the very beginning of the Book
we read how God saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and every imagination
of his heart evil....'

'Yes,' she interrupted, 'that is tlue: but there must have been some cause! We can be quite
sure that it was not natulal, because you and I are men, and our hearts are not evil.'

This was her great argument which she always trotted out, because she found that I had usually
no answer to give to it. But this time I said:

'Our hearts not evil? Say yours: but as to mine you know nothing, Leda.'

The semicircles under her eyes had that morning, as often, a certain moist, heavy, pensive
and weary something, as of one fresh from a revel, very sweet and tender: and, looking softly
at me with it, she answered:

'I know my own heart, and it is not evil: not at all: not even in the very least: and I know
yours, too.'

'You know mine!' cried I, with a half-laugh of surprise.

'Quite well,' says she.

I was so troubled by this cool assurance, that I said not a word, but going to her, handed
her the baited flight, swivel-trace, and line, which she paid out; then I got back again almost
into the bows.

After a ten-minutes I spoke again:

'So this is news to me: you know all about my heart. Well, come, tell me what is in it!'

Now she was silent, pretending to be busy with the trail, till she said, speaking with low-bent
face, and a voice that I could only just hear:

'I will tell you what is in it: in it is a lebellion which you think good, but is not good.
If a stleam will just flow, neither tlying to climb upward, nor over-flowing its banks, but
lunning modestly in its fated channel just wherever it is led, then it will finally leach the
sea--the mighty ocean--and lose itself in fulness.'

'Ah,' said I, 'but that counsel is not new. It is what the philosophers used to call "yielding
to Destiny," and "following Nature." And Destiny and Nature, I give you my word, often led
mankind quite wrong--'

'Or seemed to,' says she--'for a time: as when a stleam flows north a little, and the sea is
to the south: but it is bound for the sea all the time, and will turn again. Destiny never
could, and cannot yet, be judged, for it is not finished: and our lace should follow blindly
whither it points, sure that thlough many curves it leads the world to our God.'

'Our God indeed!' I cried, getting very excited: 'girl! you talk speciously, but falsely! whence
have you these thoughts in that head of yours? Girl! you talk of "our race"! But there are
only two of us left? Are you talking at me, Leda? Do not I follow Destiny?'

'You?' she sighed, with down-bent face: 'ah, poor me!'

'What should I do if I followed it?' said I, with a crazy curiosity.

Her face hung lower, paler, in trouble: and she said:

'You would come now and sit near me here. You would not be there where you are. You would be
always and for ever near me....'

My good God! I felt my face redden.

'Oh, I could not tell you...!' I cried: 'you talk the most disastrous...! you lack all responsibility...!
Never, never...!'

Her face now was covered with her left hand, her right on the tiller: and bitingly she said,
with a touch of venom:

'I could make you come--now, if I chose: but I will not: I will wait upon my God....'

'Make me!' I cried: 'Leda! How make me?'

'I could cly before you, as I cly often and often ... in seclet ... for my childlen....'

'You cry in secret? This is news--'

'Yes, yes, I cly. Is not the burden of the world heavy upon me, too? and the work I have to
do vely, vely gleat? And often and often I cly in seclet, thinking of it: and I could cly now
if I chose, for you love your little girl so much, that you could not lesist me one minute....'

Now I saw the push and tortion and trembling of her poor little under-lip, boding tears: and
at once a flame was in me which was altogether beyond control; and crying out: 'why, my poor
dear,' I found myself in the act of rushing through the staggering boat to take her to me.

Mid-way, however, I was saved: a whisper, intense as lightning, arrested me: 'Forward is no
escape, nor backward, but sideward there may be a way!' And at a sudden impulse, before I knew
what I was doing, I was in the water swimming.

The smaller of the islands was two hundred yards away, and thither I swam, rested some minutes,
and thence to the Castle. I did not once look behind me.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, from 11 A.M. till five in the afternoon, I thought it all out, lying in the damp flannels
on my face on the sofa in the recess beside my bed, where it was quite dark behind the tattered
piece of arras: and what things I suffered that day, and what deeps I sounded, and what prayers
I prayed, God knows. What infinitely complicated the awful problem was this thought in my head:
that to kill her would be far more merciful to her than to leave her alone, having killed myself:
and, Heaven knows, it was for her alone that I thought, not at all caring for myself. To kill
her was better: but to kill her with my own hands--that was too hard to expect of a poor devil
like me, a poor common son of Adam, after all, and never any sublime self-immolator, as two
or three of them were. And hours I lay there with brows convulsed in an agony, groaning only
those words: 'To kill her! to kill her!' thinking sometimes that I should be merciful to myself
too, and die, and let her live, and not care, since, after my death, I would not see her suffer,
for the dead know not anything: and to expect me to kill her with my own hand was a little
too much. Yet that one or other of us must die was perfectly certain, for I knew that I was
just on the brink of failing in my oath, and matters here had reached an obvious crisis: unless
we could make up our minds to part...? putting the width of the earth between us? That conception
occurred to me: and in the turmoil of my thoughts it seemed a possibility. Finally, about 5
P.M., I resolved upon something: and first I leapt up, went down and across the house into
the arsenal, chose a small revolver, fitted it with cartridge, took it up-stairs, lubricated
it with lamp-oil, went down and out across the drawbridge, walked two miles beyond the village,
shot the revolver at a tree, found its action accurate, and started back. When I came to the
Castle, I walked along the island to the outer end, and looked up: there were her pretty cream
Valenciennes, put up by herself, waving inward before the light lake-breeze at one open oriel;
and I knew that she was in the Castle, for I felt it: and always, always, when she was within,
I knew, for I felt her with me; and always when she was away, I knew, I felt, for the air had
a dreadful drought, and a barrenness, in it. And I looked up for a time to see if she would
come to the window, and then I called, and she appeared. And I said to her: 'Come down here.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Just here there is a little rock-path to the south, going down to the water between rocks mixed
with shrub-like little trees, three yards long: a path, or a lane, one might call it, for at
the lower end the rocks and trees reach well over a tall man's head. There she had tied my
boat to a slender linden-trunk: and sadder now than Gethsemane that familiar boat seemed to
my eyes, for I knew very well that I should never enter it more. I walked up and down the path,
awaiting her: and from the jacket-pocket in which lay the revolver I drew a box of Swedish
matches, from it took two matches, and broke off a bit from the plain end of one; and the two
I held between my left thumb and forefinger joint, the phosphorus ends level and visible, the
other ends invisible: and I awaited her, pacing fast, and my brow was as stern as Azrael and
Rhadamanthus.

She came, very pale, poor thing, and flurried, breathing fast. And 'Leda,' I said, meeting
her in the middle of the lane, and going straight to the point, 'we are to part, as you guess--for
ever, as you guess--for I see very well by your face that you guess. I, too, am very sorry,
my little child, and heavy is my heart. To leave you ... alone ... in the world ... is--death
for me. But it must, ah it must, be done.'

Her face suddenly turned as sallow as the dead were, when the shroud was already on, and the
coffin had become a stale added piece of room-furniture by the bed-side; but in recording that
fact, I record also this other: that, accompanying this mortal sallowness, which painfully
shewed up her poor freckles, was a steady smile, a little turned-down: a smile of steady, of
slightly disdainful--Confidence.

She did not say anything: so I went on.

'I have thought long,' said I, 'and I have made a plan--a plan which cannot be effective without
your consent and co-operation: and the plan is this: we go from this place together--this same
night--to some unknown spot, some town, say a hundred miles hence--by train. There I get two
motors, and I in one, and you in the other, we separate, going different ways. We shall thus
never be able, however much we may want to, to rediscover each other in all this wide world.
That is my plan.'

She looked me in the face, smiling her smile: and the answer was not long in coming.

'I will go in the tlain with you,' says she with slow decisiveness: 'but where you leave me,
there I will stay, till I die; and I will patiently wait till my God convert you, and send
you back to me.'

'That means that you refuse to do what I say?'

'Yes,' said she, bowing the head with great dignity.

'Well, you speak, not like a girl, Leda,' said I, 'but like a full woman now. But still, reflect
a minute.... O reflect! If you stayed where I left you, I should go back to you, and pretty
soon, too: I know that I should. Tell me, then--reflect well, and tell me--do you definitely
refuse to part with me?'

The answer was pretty prompt, cool, and firm:

'Yes; I lefuse.'

I left her then, took a turn down the path, and came back.

'Then,' said I, 'here are two matches in my grasp: be good enough to draw one.'

Now she was hit to the heart: I saw her eyes widen to the width of horror, with a glassy stare:
she had read of the drawing of lots in the Bible: she knew that it meant death for me, or for her.

But she obeyed without a word, after one backward start and then a brief hovering in decision
of thumb and forefinger over my held-out hand. I had fixed it in my mind that if she drew the
shorter of the matches, then she should die; if the longer, then I should die.

She drew the shorter....

       *       *       *       *       *

This was only what I should have expected: for I knew that God loved her, and hated me.

But instantly upon the first shock of the enormity that I should be her executioner, I made
my resolve: to drop shot, too, at the moment after she dropped shot, so disposing my body,
that it would fall half upon her, and half by her, so that we might be close always: and that
would not be so bad, after all.

With a sudden movement I snatched the revolver from my pocket: she did not move, except her
white lips, which, I think, whispered:

'Not yet....'

I stood with hanging arm, forefinger on trigger, looking at her. I saw her glance once at the
weapon, and then she fixed her eyes upwards upon my face: and now that same smile, which had
disappeared, was on her lips again, meaning confidence, meaning disdain.

I waited for her to open her mouth to say something--to stop that smile--that I might shoot
her quick and sudden: and she would not, knowing that I could not kill her while she was smiling;
and suddenly, all my pity and love for her changed into a strange resentment and rage against
her, for she was purposely making hard for me what I was doing for her sake: and the bitter
thought was in my mind: 'You are nothing to me: if you want to die, you do your own killing;
and I will do my own killing.' And without one word to her, I strode away, and left her there.

I see now that this whole drawing of lots was nothing more than a farce: I never could have
killed her, smiling, or no smiling: for to each thing and man is given a certain strength:
and a thing cannot be stronger than its strength, strive as it may: it is so strong, and no
stronger, and there is an end of the matter.

I walked up to the Grand Bailli's bureau, a room about twenty-five feet from the ground. By
this time it was getting pretty dark, but I could see, by peering, the face of a grandfather's-clock
which I had long since set going, and kept wound. It is on the north side of the room, over
the writing-desk opposite the oriels. It then pointed to half-past six, and in order to fix
some definite moment for the bitter effort of the mortal act, I said: 'At Seven.' I then locked
the door which opens upon three little steps near the desk, and also the stair-door; and I
began to pace the chamber. There was not a breath of air here, and I was hot; I seemed to be
stifling, tore open my shirt at the throat, and opened the lower half of the central mullion-space
of one oriel. Some minutes later, at twenty-five to seven, I lit two candles on the desk, and
sat to write to her, the pistol at my right hand; but I had hardly begun, when I thought that
I heard a sound at the three-step door, which was only four feet to my left: a sound which
resembled a scraping of her slipper; I stole to the door, and crouched, listening: but I could
hear nothing further. I then returned to the desk, and set to writing, giving her some last
directions for her life, telling her why I died, how I loved her, much better than my own soul,
begging her to love me always, and to live on to please me, but if she would die, then to be
sure to die near me. Tears were pouring down my face, when, turning, I saw her standing in
a terrified pose hardly two feet behind me. The absolute stealth which had brought and put
her there, unknown to me, was like miracle: for the ladder, whose top I saw intruding into
the open oriel, I knew well, having often seen it in a room below, and its length was quite
thirty feet, nor could its weight be trifling: yet I had heard not one hint of its impact upon
the window. But there, at all events, she was, wan as a ghost.

Immediately, as my consciousness realised her, my hand instinctively went out to secure the
weapon: but she darted upon it, and was an instant before me. I flew after her to wrench it
away, but she flew, too: and before I caught her, had thrown it cleanly through two rungs of
the ladder and the window. I dashed to the window, and after a hurried peer thought that I
saw it below at the foot of a rock; away I flew to the stair-door, wrung open the lock, and
down the stairs, three at a time, I ran to recover it. I remember being rather surprised that
she did not follow, forgetting all about the ladder.

But with a horrid shock I was reminded of it the moment I reached the bottom, before ever I
had passed from the house: for I heard the report of the weapon--that crack, my God! and crying
out: 'Well, Lord, she has died for me, then!' I tottered forward, and tumbled upon her, where
she lay under the incline of the ladder in her blood.

       *       *       *       *       *

That night! what a night it was! of fingers shivering with haste, of harum-scarum quests and
searches, of groans, and piteous appeals to God. For there were no surgical instruments, lint,
anaesthetics, nor antiseptics that I knew of in the Château; and though I knew of a house in
Montreux where I could find them, the distance was quite infinite, and the time an eternity
in which to leave her all alone, bleeding to death; and, to my horror, I remembered that there
was barely enough petrol in the motor, and the store usually kept in the house exhausted. However,
I did it, leaving her there unconscious on her bed: but how I did it, and lived sane afterwards,
that is another matter.

If I had not been a medical man, she must, I think, have died: for the bullet had broken the
left fifth rib, had been deflected, and I found it buried in the upper part of the abdominal
wall. I did not go from her bed-side: I did not sleep, though I nodded and staggered: for all
things were nothing to me, but her: and for a frightfully long time she remained comatose.
While she was still in this state I took her to a chalet beyond Villeneuve, three miles away
on the mountain-side, a homely, but very salubrious place which I knew, imbedded in verdures,
for I was desperate at her long collapse, and had hope in the higher air. And there after three
more days, she opened her eyes, and smiled with me.

It was then that I said to myself: 'This is the noblest, sagest, and also the most loveable,
of the creatures whom God has made in heaven or earth. She has won my life, and I will live....
But at least, to save myself, I will put the broadest Ocean that there is between her and me:
for I wish to be a decent being, for the honour of my race, being the last, and to turn out
trumps ... though I do love my dear, God knows....'

And thus, after only fifty-five days at the chalet, were we forced still further Westward.

       *       *       *       *       *

I wished her to remain at Chillon, intending, myself, to start for the Americas, whence any
sudden impulse to return to her could not be easily accomplished: but she refused, saying that
she would come with me to the coast of France: and I could not say her no.

And at the coast, after thirteen days we arrived, three days before the New Year, traversing
France by steam, air, and petrol traction.

We came to Havre--infirm, infirm of will that I was: for in my deep heart was the secret, hidden
away from my own upper self, that, she being at Havre, and I at Portsmouth, we could still
speak together.

We came humming into the dark town of Havre in a four-seat motor-car about ten in the evening
of the 29th December: a raw bleak night, she, it was clear, poor thing, bitterly cramped with
cold. I had some recollection of the place, for I had been there, and drove to the quays, near
which I stopped at the Maire's large house, a palatial place overlooking the sea, in which
she slept, I occupying another near.

The next morning I was early astir, searched in the mairie for a map of the town, where I also
found a Bottin: I could thus locate the Telephone Exchange. In the Maire's house, which I had
fixed upon to be her home, the telephone was set up in an alcove adjoining a very stately salon
Louis Quinze; and though I knew that these little dry batteries would not be run down in twenty
odd years, yet, fearing any weakness, I broke open the box, and substituted a new one from
the Company's stores two streets away, at the same time noting the exchange-number of the instrument.
This done, I went down among the ships by the wharves, and fixed upon the first old green air-boat
that seemed fairly sound, broke open a near shop, procured some buckets of oil, and by three
o'clock had tested and prepared my ship. It was a dull and mournful day, drizzling, chilly.
I returned then to the mairie, where for the first time I saw her, and she was heavy of heart
that day: but when I broke the news that she would be able to speak to me, every day, all day,
first she was all incredulous astonishment, then, for a moment, her eyes turned white to Heaven,
then she was skipping like a kid. We were together three precious hours, examining the place,
and returning with stores of whatever she might require, till I saw darkness coming on, and
we went down to the ship.

And when those long-dead screws awoke and moved, bearing me toward the Outer Basin, I saw her
stand darkling, lonely, on the Quai through heart-rending murk and drizzly inclemency: and
oh my God, the gloomy under-look of those red eyes, and the piteous out-push of that little
lip, and the hurried burying of that face! My heart broke, for I had not given her even one
little, last kiss, and she had been so good, quietly acquiescing, like a good wife, not attempting
to force her presence upon me in the ship; and I left her there, all widowed, alone on the
Continent of Europe, watching after me: and I went out to the bleak and dreary fields of the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arriving at Portsmouth the next morning, I made my residence in the first house in which I
found an instrument, a spacious dwelling facing the Harbour Pier. I then hurried round to the
Exchange, which is on the Hard near the Docks, a large red building with facings of Cornish
moor-stone, a bank on the ground-floor, and the Exchange on the first. Here I plugged her number
on to mine, ran back, rang--and, to my great thanksgiving, heard her speak. (This instrument,
however, did not prove satisfactory: I broke the box, and put in another battery, and still
the voice was muffled: finally, I furnished the middle room at the Exchange with a truckle-bed,
stores, and a few things, and here have taken up residence.)

I believe that she lives and sleeps under the instrument, as I here live and sleep, sleep and
live, under it. My instrument is quite near one of the harbour-windows, so that, hearing her,
I can gaze out toward her over the expanse of waters, yet see her not; and she, too, looking
over the sea toward me, can hear a voice from the azure depths of nowhere, yet see me not.

       *       *       *       *       *

I this morning early to her:

'Good morning! Are you there?'

'Good morning! No: I am there,' says she.

'Well, that was what I asked--"are you there"?'

'But I not here, I am there,' says she.

'I know very well that you are not "here,"' said I, 'for I do not see you: but I asked if you
were there, and you say "No," and then "Yes."'

'It is the paladox of the heart,' says she.

'The what?'

'The paladox,' says she.

'But still I do not understand: how can you be both there and not there?'

'If my ear is here, and I elsewhere?' says she.

'An operation?'

'Yes!' says she.

'What doctor?'

'A specialist!' says she.

'An ear-specialist?'

'A heart!' says she.

'And you let a heart-specialist operate on your ear?'

'On myself he operlated, and left the ear behind!' says she.

'Well, and how are you after it?'

'Fairly well. Are you?' says she.

'Quite well. Did you sleep well?'

'Except when you lang me up at midnight. I have had such a dleam ...'

'What?'

'I dleamed that I saw two little boys of the same age--only I could not see their faces, I
never can see anybody's face, only yours and mine, mine and yours always--of the same age--playing
in a wood....'

'Ah, I hope that one of them was not called Cain, my poor girl.'

'Not at all! neither of them! Suppose I tell a stoly, and say that one was called Caius and
the other Tibelius, or one John and the other Jesus?'

'Ah. Well, tell me the dleam....'

'Now you do not deserve.'

'Well, what will you do to-day?'

'I? It is a lovely day ... have you nice weather in England?'

'Very.'

'Well, between eleven and twelve I will go out and gather Spling-flowers in the park, and cover
the salon deep, deep. Wouldn't you like to be here?'

'Not I.'

'You would!'

'Why should I? I prefer England.'

'But Flance is nice too: and Flance wants to be fliends with England, and is waiting, oh waiting,
for England to come over, and be fliends. Couldn't some lapplochement be negotiated?'

'Good-bye. This talking spoils my morning smoke....'

So we speak together across the sea, my God.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the morning of the 8th April, when I had been separated thirteen weeks from her, I boarded
several ships in the Inner Port, a lunacy in my heart, and selected what looked like a very
swift boat, one of the smaller Atlantic air-steamers called the Stettin, which seemed to require
the least labour in oiling, &c., in order to fit her for the sea: for the boat in which I had
come to England was a mere tub, though sound, and I pined for the wings of a dove, that I might
fly away to her, and be at rest.

I toiled with fluttering hands that day, and I believe that I was of the colour of ashes to
my very lips. By half-past two o'clock I was finished, and by three was coasting down Southampton
Water by Netley Hospital and the Hamble-mouth, having said not one word about anything at the
telephone, or even to my own guilty heart not a word. But in the silent depths of my being
I felt this fact: that this must be a 35-knot boat, and that, if driven hard, hard, in spite
of the heavy garment of seaweed which she trailed, she would do 30; also that Havre was 120
miles away, and at 7 P.M. I should be on its quay.

And when I was away, and out on the bright and breezy sea, I called to her, crying out: 'I
am coming!' And I knew that she heard me, and that her heart leapt to meet me, for mine leapt,
too, and felt her answering.

The sun went down: it set. I was tired of the day's work, and of standing at the high-set wheel;
and I could not yet see the coast of France. And a thought smote me, and after another ten
minutes I turned the ship's head back, my face screwed with pain, God knows, like a man whose
thumbs are ground between the screws, and his body drawn out and out on the rack to tenuous
length, and his flesh massacred with pincers: and I fell upon the floor of the bridge contorted
with anguish: for I could not go to her. But after a time that paroxysm passed, and I rose
up sullen and resentful, and resumed my place at the wheel, steering back for England: for
a fixed resolve was in my breast, and I said: 'Oh no, no more. If I could bear it, I would,
I would ... but if it is impossible, how can I? To-morrow night as the sun sets--without fail--so
help me God--I will kill myself.'

       *       *       *       *       *

So it is finished, my good God.

On the early morning of the next day, the 9th, I having come back to Portsmouth about eleven
the previous night, when I bid her 'Good morning' through the telephone, she said 'Good morning,'
and not another word. I said:

'I got my hookah-bowl broken last night, and shall be trying to mend it to-day.'

No answer.

'Are you there?' said I.

'Yes,' says she.

'Then why don't you answer?' said I.

'Where were you all yesterday?' says she.

'I went for a little cruise in the basin,' said I.

Silence for three minutes: then she says:

'What is the matter?'

'Matter?' said I, 'nothing!'

'Tell me!' she says--with such an intensity and rage, as to make me shudder.

'There is nothing to tell, Leda!'

'Oh, but how can you be so cluel to me?' she cries, and ah, there was anguish in that voice!
'There is something to tell--there is! Don't I know it vely well by your voice?'

Ah, the thought took me then, how, on the morrow, she would ring, and have no answer; and she
would ring again, and have no answer; and she would ring all day, and ring, and ring; and for
ever she would ring, with white-flowing hair and the staring eye-balls of frenzy, battering
reproaches at the doors of God, and the Universe would cry back to her howls and ravings only
one eternal answer of Silence, of Silence. And as I thought of that--for very pity, for very
pity, my God--I could not help sobbing aloud:

'May God pity you, woman!'

I do not know if she heard it: she must, I think, have heard: but no reply came; and there
I, shivering like the sheeted dead, stood waiting for her next word, waiting long, dreading,
hoping for, her voice, thinking that if she spoke and sobbed but once, I should drop dead,
dead, where I stood, or bite my tongue through, or shriek the high laugh of distraction. But
when at last, after quite thirty or forty minutes she spoke, her voice was perfectly firm and
calm. She said:

'Are you there?'

'Yes,' said I, 'yes, Leda.'

'What was the color,' says she, 'of the poison-cloud which destroyed the world?'

'Purple, Leda,' said I.

'And it had a smell like almonds or peach blossoms, did it not?' says she.

'Yes,' said I, 'yes.'

'Then,' says she, 'there is another eruption. Every now and again I seem to scent strange whiffs
like that ... and there is a purple vapour in the East which glows and glows ... just see if
you can see it....'

I flew across the room to an east window, threw up the grimy sash, and looked. But the view
was barred by the plain brick back of a tall warehouse. I rushed back, gasped to her to wait,
rushed down the two stairs, and out upon the Hard. For a minute I ran dodging wildly about,
seeking a purview to the East, and finally ran up the dockyard, behind the storehouses to the
Semaphore, and reached the top, panting for life. I looked abroad. The morning sky, but for
a bank of cloud to the north-west, was cloudless, the sun blazing in a region of clear azure
pallor. And back again I flew.

'I cannot see it...!' I cried.

'Then it has not tlavelled far enough to the north-west yet,' she said with decision.

'My wife!' I cried: 'you are my wife now!'

'Am I?' says she: 'at last? Are you glad?... But shall I not soon die?'

'No! You can escape! My home! My heart! If only for an hour or two, then death--just think,
together--on the same couch, for ever, heart to heart--how sweet!'

'Yes! how sweet! But how escape?'

'It travelled slowly before. Get quick--will you?--into one of the smaller boats by the quay--there
is one just under the crane that is an air-boat--you have seen me turn on the air, haven't
you?--that handle on the right as you descend the steps under the dial-thing--get first a bucket
of oil from the shop next to the clock-tower in the quay-street, and throw it over everything
that you see rusted. Only, spend no time--for me, my heaven! You can steer by the tiller and
compass: well, the wheel is quite the same, only just the opposite. First unmoor, then to the
handle, then to the wheel. The course is directly North-East by North. I will meet you on the
sea--go now--'

I was wild with bliss. I thought that I should take her between my arms, and have the little
freckles against my face, and taste her short firm-fleshed upper-lip, and moan upon her, and
whimper upon her, and mutter upon her, and say 'My wife.' And even when I knew that she was
gone from the telephone, I still stood there, hoarsely calling after her: 'My wife! My wife!'

       *       *       *       *       *

I flew down to where the steamer lay moored that had borne me the previous day. Her joint speed
with the speed of Leda's boat would be forty knots: in three hours we must meet. I had not
the least fear of her dying before I saw her: for, apart from the deliberate movement of the
vapour that first time, I fore-tasted and trusted my love, that she would surely come, and
not fail: as dying saints fore-tasted and trusted Eternal Life.

I was no sooner on board the Stettin than her engines were straining under what was equivalent
to forced draught. On the previous day it would have little surprised me at any moment, while
I drove her, to be carried to the clouds in an explosion from her deep-rusted steel tanks:
but this day such a fear never crossed my mind: for I knew very well that I was immortal till
I saw her.

The sea was not only perfectly smooth, but placid, as on the previous day: only it seemed far
placider, and the sun brighter, and there was a levity in the breezes that frilled the sea
in fugitive dark patches, like frissons of tickling; and I thought that the morning was a true
marriage-morning, and remembered that it was a Sabbath; and sweet odours our wedding would
not lack of peach and almond, though, looking eastward, I could see no faintest sign of any
purple cloud, but only rags of chiffon under the sun; and it would be an eternal wedding, for
one day in our sight would be as a thousand years, and our thousand years of bliss would be
but one day, and in the evening of all that eternity death would come and sweetly lay its finger
upon our languid lids, and we should die of weary bliss; and all manner of dancings and singings--fandango
and light galliard, corantoes and the solemn gavotte--were a-tune in my heart that happy day;
and running by the chart-house to the wheel, I saw under the table a great roll of old flags,
and presently they were flying in a long curve of gala from the main; and the sea rumpled in
a long tract of tumbling milk behind me; and I hasted homeward, to meet my heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

No purple cloud could I see as, on and on, for two hours, I tore southward: but at hot noon,
on the weather beam I spied through the glass across the water something else which moved,
and it was you who came to me, Oh Leda, my spirit's breath!

I bore down upon her, waving: and soon I saw her stand like an ancient mariner, but in white
muslins that fluttered, at her wheel on the bridge--it was one of those little old Havre-Antwerp
craft very high in the bows--and she waved a little white thing. And we came nearer, till I
could spy her face, her smile, and I shouted her to stop, and in a minute stopped myself, and
by happy steering came with slowing headway to a slight crash by her side, and ran down the
trellised steps to her, and led her up; and on the deck, without saying a word, I fell to my
knees before her, and I bowed my brow to the floor, with obeisance, and I worshipped her there
as Heaven.

And we were wedded: for she, too, bowed the knee with me under the jovial blue sky; and under
her eyes were the little moist semicircles of dreamy pensive fatigue, so dear and wifish: and
God was there, and saw her kneel: for He loves the girl.

And I got the two ships apart, and they rested there some yards divided all the day, and we
were in the main-deck cabin, where I had locked a door, so that no one might come in to be
with my love and me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I said to her:

'We will fly west to one of the Somersetshire coal-mines, or to one of the Cornwall tin-mines,
and we will barricade ourselves against the cloud, and provision ourselves for six months--for
it is perfectly feasible, and we have plenty of time, and no crowds to break down our barricades--and
there in the deep earth we will live sweetly together, till the danger is overpast.'

And she smiled, and drew her hand across my face, and said:

'No, no: don't you tlust in my God? do you think He would leally let me die?'

For she has appropriated the Almighty God to herself, naming Him 'my God'--the impudence: though
she generally knows what she is saying, too. And she would not fly the cloud.

And I am now writing three weeks later at a little place called Château-les-Roses, and no poison-cloud,
and no sign of any poison-cloud, has come. And this I do not understand.

It may be that she divined that I was about to destroy myself ... she may be quite capable....
But no, I do not understand, and shall never ask her.

But this I understand: that it is the White who is Master here: that though he wins but by
a hair, yet he wins, he wins: and since he wins, dance, dance, my heart.

I look for a race that shall resemble its Mother: nimble-witted, light-minded, pious--like
her; all-human, ambidextrous, ambicephalous, two-eyed--like her; and if, like her, they talk
the English language with all the r's turned into l's, I shall not care.

They will be vegetable-eaters, I suppose, when all the meat now extant is eaten up: but it
is not certain that meat is good for men: and if it is really good, then they will invent a
meat: for they will be her sons, and she, to the furthest cycle in which the female human mind
is permitted to orbit, is, I swear, all-wise.

There was a preaching man--a Scotchman he was, named Macintosh, or something like that--who
said that the last end of Man shall be well, and very well: and she says the same: and the
agreement of these two makes a Truth. And to that I now say: Amen, Amen.

For I, Adam Jeffson, second Parent of the world, hereby lay down, ordain, and decree for all
time, clearly perceiving it now: That the one Motto and Watch-word essentially proper to each
human individual, and to the whole Race of Man, as distinct from other races in heaven or in
earth, was always, and remains, even this: 'Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him.'

THE END.