LORD GUMTHORPE. (after an interminable pause). Your mistress has dropped her fan into the fireplace!

[With a little croon of pleasure, Stud falls towards the fireplace. Suddenly he stops, beholding
the-fallen wreckage. For a fraction of a second the fetters of a generation of servile habits
are almost broken. A fugitive expression of surprise passes over his face. Then, remembering
himself, he stumbles over the débris and, groping among the cinders, picks up the fan.

STUD (with finesse). Here is the fan, my Lord. Shall I present it to her Ladyship?

LORD GUMTHORPE. (with extraordinary subtlety). No, you may keep it. Her Ladyship does not require
it.

[Stud goes out with the fan. Lord Gumthorpe stands irresolutely warming his hands at the fire.
Angela's father from Atlantis, Tennessee, is heard outside in the hall eating cantaloup. The
pips rattle against the door. Unable to withstand this further symbol of inevitable doom, Lord
Gumthorpe throws himself on to the fire. He is burnt up. The fire is blotted out. Everything
is blotted out.

CURTAIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From an account of a football match by "Brigadier" in The Daily Record:--

     "Cresswell sustained an injury, and took no risks, but R. M. Morton
     would have risked going at a battalion of dragoons with bayonets
     drawn."

There must be moments in these peaceful journalistic days of his retirement when that grand
old soldier, "Brigadier," wishes he were once more charging at the head of his dragoons, with
a drawn bayonet in his hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORANGES AND LEMONS.

IV.--BEFORE LUNCH.

I found Myra in the hammock at the end of the loggia.

"Hallo," I said.

"Hallo." She looked up from her book and waved her hand. "Mentone on the left, Monte Carlo
on the right," she said, and returned to her book again. Simpson had mentioned the situation
so many times that it had become a catch-phrase with us.

"Fancy reading on a lovely morning like this," I complained.

"But that's why. It's a very gloomy play by IBSEN, and whenever it's simply more than I can
bear I look up and see Mentone on the left, Monte Carlo on the right--I mean, I see all the
loveliness round me, and then I know the world isn't so bad after all." She put her book down.
"Are you alone?"

I gripped her wrist suddenly and put the paper-knife to her throat.

"We are alone," I hissed--or whatever you do to a sentence without any "s's" in it to make
it dramatic. "Your friends cannot save you now. Prepare to--er--come a walk up the hill with me."

"Help! Help!" whispered Myra. She hesitated a moment; then swung herself out of the hammock
and went in for her hat.

We climbed up a steep path which led to the rock-village above us. Simpson had told us that
we must see the village; still more earnestly he had begged us to see Corsica. The view of
Corsica was to be obtained from a point some miles up--too far to go before lunch.

"However, we can always say we saw it," I reassured Myra. "From this distance you can't be
certain of recognising an island you don't know. Any small cloud on the horizon will do."

"I know it on the map."

"Yes, but it looks quite different in real life. The great thing is to be able to assure Simpson
at lunch that the Corsican question is now closed. When we're a little higher up, I shall say,
'Surely that's Corsica?' and you'll say, 'Not Corsica,?" as though you'd rather expected the
Isle of Wight; and then it'll be all over. Hallo!

We had just passed the narrow archway leading into the courtyard of the village and were following
the path up the hill. But in that moment of passing we had been observed. Behind us a dozen
village children now trailed eagerly.

"Oh, the dears!" cried Myra.

"But I think we made a mistake to bring them," I said severely. "No one is prouder of our--one,
two, three ... I make it eleven--our eleven children than I am, but there are times when Father
and Mother want to be alone."

"I'm sorry, dear. I thought you'd be so proud to have them all with you."

"I am proud of them. To reflect that all the--one, two ... I make it thirteen--all these thirteen
are ours is very inspiring. But I don't like people to think that we cannot afford our youngest,
our little Philomène, shoes and stockings. And Giuseppe should have washed his face since last
Friday. These are small matters, but they are very trying to a father."

"Have you any coppers?" asked Myra suddenly. "You forgot their pocket-money last week."

"One, two, three--I cannot possibly afford--one, two, three, four---- Myra, I do wish you'd
count them definitely and tell mo how many we have. One likes to know. I cannot afford pocket-money
for more than a dozen."

"Ten." She took a franc from me and gave it to the biggest girl. (Anne-Marie, our first, and
getting on so nicely with her French.) Rapidly she explained what was to be done with it, Anne-Marie's
look of intense rapture slowly straightening itself to one of ordinary gratitude as the financial
standing of the other nine in the business became clear. Then we waved farewell to our family
and went on.

High above the village, a thousand feet above the sea, we rested, and looked down upon the
silvery olives stretching into the blue ... and more particularly upon one red roof which stood
up amid the grey-green trees.

"That's the Cardews' villa," I said.

Myra was silent.

When Myra married me she promised to love, honour and write all my thank-you-very-much letters
for me, for we agreed before the ceremony that the word "obey" should mean nothing more than
that. There are two sorts of T. Y. V. M. letters--the "Thank you very much for asking us, we
shall be delighted to come," and the "Thank you very much for having us, we enjoyed it immensely."
With these off my mind I could really concentrate on my work, or my short mashie shots, or
whatever was of importance. But there was now a new kind of letter to write, and one rather
outside the terms of our original understanding. A friend of mine had told his friends the
Cardews that we were going out to the Riviera and would let them know when we arrived ... and
we had arrived a week ago.

"It isn't at all an easy letter to write," said Myra. "It's practically asking a stranger for
hospitality."

"Let us say 'indicating our readiness to accept it.' It sounds better."

Myra smiled slowly to herself.

"'Dear Mrs. Cardew,'" she said, "'we are ready for lunch when you are. Yours sincerely.'"

"Well, that's the idea."

"And then what about the others? If the Cardews are going to be nice we don't want to leave
Dahlia and all of them out of it."

I thought it over carefully for a little.

