"True, sir; and I have that confidence in the commission which I hold, that I would take the
field against the foul fiend without a moment's delay," said Holdenough; "but the place in
which he hath of late appeared, being Woodstock, is filled with those dangerous and impious
persons, of whom I have been but now complaining; and though, confident in my own resources,
I dare venture in disputation with their Great Master himself; yet without your protection,
most worthy Colonel, I see not that I may with prudence trust myself with the tossing and goring
ox Desborough, or the bloody and devouring bear Harrison, or the cold and poisonous snake Bletson--all
of whom are now at the Lodge, doing license and taking spoil as they think meet; and, as all
men say, the devil hath come to make a fourth with them."

"In good truth, worthy and noble sir," said the Mayor, "it is even as Master Holdenough says--our
privileges are declared void, our cattle seized in the very pastures. They talk of cutting
down and disparking the fair Chase, which has been so long the pleasure of so many kings, and
making Woodstock of as little note as any paltry village. I assure you we heard of your arrival
with joy, and wondered at your keeping yourself so close in your lodgings. We know no one save
your father or you, that are like to stand the poor burgesses' friend in this extremity, since
almost all the gentry around are malignants, and under sequestration. We trust, therefore,
you will make strong intercession in our behalf."

"Certainly, Master Mayor," said the Colonel, who saw himself with pleasure anticipated; "it
was my very purpose to have interfered in this matter; and I did but keep myself alone until
I should be furnished with some authority from the Lord-General."

"Powers from the Lord-General!" said the Mayor, thrusting the clergy-man with his elbow--"Dost
thou hear that?--What cock will fight that cock?-- We shall carry it now over their necks,
and Woodstock shall be brave Woodstock still!"

"Keep thine elbow from my side, friend," said Holdenough, annoyed by the action which the Mayor
had suited to his words; "and may the Lord send that Cromwell prove not as sharp to the people
of England as thy bones against my person! Yet I approve that we should use his authority to
stop the course of these men's proceedings."

"Let us set out, then," said Colonel Everard; "and I trust we shall find the gentlemen reasonable
and obedient."

The functionaries, laic and clerical, assented with much joy; and the Colonel required and
received Wildrake's assistance in putting on his cloak and rapier, as if he had been the dependent
whose part he acted. The cavalier contrived, however, while doing him these menial offices,
to give his friend a shrewd pinch, in order to maintain the footing of secret equality betwixt
them.

The Colonel was saluted, as they passed through the streets, by many of the anxious inhabitants,
who seemed to consider his intervention as affording the only chance of saving their fine Park,
and the rights of the corporation, as well as of individuals, from ruin and confiscation.

As they entered the Park, the Colonel asked his companions, "What is this you say of apparitions
being seen amongst them?"

"Why, Colonel," said the clergyman, "you know yourself that Woodstock was always haunted?"

"I have lived therein many a day," said the Colonel; "and I know I never saw the least sign
of it, although idle people spoke of the house as they do of all old mansions, and gave the
apartments ghosts and spectres to fill up the places of as many of the deceased great, as had
ever dwelt there."

"Nay, but, good Colonel," said the clergyman, "I trust you have not reached the prevailing
sin of the times, and become indifferent to the testimony in favour of apparitions, which appears
so conclusive to all but atheists, and advocates for witches?"

"I would not absolutely disbelieve what is so generally affirmed," said the Colonel; "but my
reason leads me to doubt most of the stories which I have heard of this sort, and my own experience
never went to confirm any of them."

"Ay, but trust me," said Holdenough, "there was always a demon of one or the other species
about this Woodstock. Not a man or woman in the town but has heard stories of apparitions in
the forest, or about the old castle. Sometimes it is a pack of hounds, that sweep along, and
the whoops and halloos of the huntsmen, and the winding of horns and the galloping of horse,
which is heard as if first more distant, and then close around you--and then anon it is a solitary
huntsman, who asks if you can tell him which way the stag has gone. He is always dressed in
green; but the fashion of his clothes is some five hundred years old. This is what we call
Demon Meridianum--the noon-day spectre."

"My worthy and reverend sir," said the Colonel, "I have lived at Woodstock many seasons, and
have traversed the Chase at all hours. Trust me, what you hear from the villagers is the growth
of their idle folly and superstition."

"Colonel," replied Holdenough, "a negative proves nothing. What signifies, craving your pardon,
that you have not seen anything, be it earthly or be it of the other world, to detract from
the evidence of a score of people who have?--And besides, there is the Demon Nocturnum-- the
being that walketh by night; he has been among these Independents and schismatics last night.
Ay, Colonel, you may stare; but it is even so--they may try whether he will mend their gifts,
as they profanely call them, of exposition and prayer. No, sir, I trow, to master the foul
fiend there goeth some competent knowledge of theology, and an acquaintance of the humane letters,
ay, and a regular clerical education and clerical calling."

"I do not in the least doubt," said the Colonel, "the efficacy of your qualifications to lay
the devil; but still I think some odd mistake has occasioned this confusion amongst them, if
there has any such in reality existed. Desborough is a blockhead, to be sure; and Harrison
is fanatic enough to believe anything. But there is Bletson, on the other hand, who believes
nothing.--What do you know of this matter, good Master Mayor?"

"In sooth, and it was Master Bletson who gave the first alarm," replied the magistrate; "or,
at least, the first distinct one. You see, sir, I was in bed with my wife, and no one else;
and I was as fast asleep as a man can desire to be at two hours after midnight, when, behold
you, they came knocking at my bedroom door, to tell me there was an alarm in Woodstock, and
that the bell of the Lodge was ringing at that dead hour of the night as hard as ever it rung
when it called the court to dinner."

"Well, but the cause of this alarm?" said the Colonel.

"You shall hear, worthy Colonel, you shall hear," answered the Mayor, waving his hand with
dignity; for he was one of those persons who will not be hurried out of their own pace. "So
Mrs. Mayor would have persuaded me, in her love and affection, poor wretch, that to rise at
such an hour out of my own warm bed, was like to bring on my old complaint the lumbago, and
that I should send the people to Alderman Dutton.--Alderman Devil, Mrs. Mayor, said I;--I beg
your reverence's pardon for using such a phrase--Do you think I am going to lie a-bed when
the town is on fire, and the cavaliers up, and the devil to pay;--I beg pardon again, parson.--But
here we are before the gate of the Palace; will it not please you to enter?"

"I would first hear the end of your story," said the Colonel; "that is, Master Mayor, if it
happens to have an end."

"Every thing hath an end," said the Mayor, "and that which we call a pudding hath two.--Your
worship will forgive me for being facetious. Where was I?--Oh, I jumped out of bed, and put
on my red plush breeches, with the blue nether stocks, for I always make a point of being dressed
suitably to my dignity, night and day, summer or winter, Colonel Everard; and I took the Constable
along with me, in case the alarm should be raised by night-walkers or thieves, and called up
worthy Master Holdenough out of his bed, in case it should turn out to be the devil. And so
I thought I was provided for the worst, and so away we came; and, by and by, the soldiers who
came to the town with Master Tomkins, who had been called to arms, came marching down to Woodstock
as fast as their feet would carry them; so I gave our people the sign to let them pass us,
and out-march us, as it were, and this for a twofold reason."

"I will be satisfied," interrupted the Colonel, "with one good reason. You desired the red-coats
should have the first of the fray?"

"True, sir, very true;--and also that they should have the last of it, in respect that fighting
is their especial business. However, we came on at a slow pace, as men who are determined to
do their duty without fear or favour, when suddenly we saw something white haste away up the
avenue towards the town, when six of our constables and assistants fled at once, as conceiving
it to be an apparition called the White Woman of Woodstock."

"Look you there, Colonel," said Master Holdenough, "I told you there were demons of more kinds
than one, which haunt the ancient scenes of royal debauchery and cruelty."

"I hope you stood your own ground, Master Mayor?" said the Colonel.

"I--yes--most assuredly--that is, I did not, strictly speaking, keep my ground; but the town-clerk
and I retreated--retreated, Colonel, and without confusion or dishonour, and took post behind
worthy Master Holdenough, who, with the spirit of a lion, threw himself in the way of the supposed
spectre, and attacked it with such a siserary of Latin as might have scared the devil himself,
and thereby plainly discovered that it was no devil at all, nor white woman, neither woman
of any colour, but worshipful Master Bletson, a member of the House of Commons, and one of
the commissioners sent hither upon this unhappy sequestration of the Wood, Chase, and Lodge
of Woodstock."

"And this was all you saw of the demon?" said the Colonel.

"Truly, yes," answered the Mayor; "and I had no wish to see more. However, we conveyed Master
Bletson, as in duty bound, back to the Lodge, and he was ever maundering by the way how that
he met a party of scarlet devils incarnate marching down to the Lodge; but, to my poor thinking,
it must have been the Independent dragoons who had just passed us."

"And more incarnate devils I would never wish to see," said Wildrake, who could remain silent
no longer. His voice, so suddenly heard, showed how much the Mayor's nerves were still alarmed,
far he started and jumped aside with an alacrity of which no one would at first sight suppose
a man of his portly dignity to have been capable. Everard imposed silence on his intrusive
attendant; and, desirous to hear the conclusion of this strange story, requested the Mayor
to tell him how the matter ended, and whether they stopped the supposed spectre.

"Truly, worthy sir," said the Mayor, "Master Holdenough was quite venturous upon confronting,
as it were, the devil, and compelling him to appear under the real form of Master Joshua Bletson,
member of Parliament for the borough of Littlefaith."

"In sooth, Master Mayor," said the divine, "I were strangely ignorant of my own commission
and its immunities, if I were to value opposing myself to Satan, or any Independent in his
likeness, all of whom, in the name of Him I serve, I do defy, spit at, and trample under my
feet; and because Master Mayor is something tedious, I will briefly inform your honour that
we saw little of the Enemy that night, save what Master Bletson said in the first feeling of
his terrors, and save what we might collect from the disordered appearance of the Honourable
Colonel Desborough and Major-General Harrison."

"And what plight were they in, I pray you?" demanded the Colonel.

"Why, worthy sir, every one might see with half an eye that they had been engaged in a fight
wherein they had not been honoured with perfect victory; seeing that General Harrison was stalking
up and down the parlour, with his drawn sword in his hand, talking to himself, his doublet
unbuttoned, his points untrussed, his garters loose, and like to throw him down as he now and
then trode on them, and gaping and grinning like a mad player. And yonder sate Desborough with
a dry pottle of sack before him, which he had just emptied, and which, though the element in
which he trusted, had not restored him sense enough to speak, or courage enough to look over
his shoulder. He had a Bible in his hand, forsooth, as if it would of itself make battle against
the Evil One; but I peered over his shoulder, and, alas! the good gentleman held the bottom
of the page uppermost. It was as if one of your musketeers, noble and valued sir, were to present
the butt of his piece at the enemy instead of the muzzle--ha, ha, ha! it was a sight to judge
of schismatics by; both in point of head, and in point of heart, in point of skill, and in
point of courage. Oh! Colonel, then was the time to see the true character of an authorised
pastor of souls over those unhappy men, who leap into the fold without due and legal authority,
and will, forsooth, preach, teach, and exhort, and blasphemously term the doctrine of the Church
saltless porridge and dry chips!"

"I have no doubt you were ready to meet the danger, reverend sir; but I would fain know of
what nature it was, and from whence it was to be apprehended?"

"Was it for me to make such inquiry?" said the clergyman, triumphantly. "Is it for a brave
soldier to number his enemies, or inquire from what quarter they are to come? No, sir, I was
there with match lighted, bullet in my mouth, and my harquebuss shouldered, to encounter as
many devils as hell could pour in, were they countless as motes in the sunbeam, and although
they came from all points of the compass. The Papists talk of the temptation of St. Anthony--pshaw!
let them double all the myriads which the brain of a crazy Dutch painter hath invented, and
you will find a poor Presbyterian divine--I will answer for one at least,--who, not in his
own strength, but his Master's, will receive the assault in such sort, that far from returning
against him as against yonder poor hound, day after day, and night after night, he will at
once pack them off as with a vengeance to the uttermost parts of Assyria!"

"Still," said the Colonel, "I pray to know whether you saw anything upon which to exercise
your pious learning?"

"Saw?" answered the divine; "no, truly, I saw nothing, nor did I look for anything. Thieves
will not attack well-armed travellers, nor will devils or evil spirits come against one who
bears in his bosom the word of truth, in the very language in which it was first dictated.
No, sir, they shun a divine who can understand the holy text, as a crow is said to keep wide
of a gun loaded with hailshot."

They had walked a little way back upon their road, to give time for this conversation; and
the Colonel, perceiving it was about to lead to no satisfactory explanation of the real cause
of alarm on the preceding night, turned round, and observing it was time they should go to
the Lodge, began to move in that direction with his three companions.

