The relation of engraving to painting is often discussed; but nobody has treated it with more
knowledge or sentiment than the consummate engraver Longhi in his interesting work, La Calcografia.[3]
Dwelling on the general aid it renders to the lovers of art, he claims for it greater merit
in "publishing and immortalizing the portraits of eminent men for the example of the present
and future generations;" and, "better than any other art, serving as the vehicle for the most
extended and remote propagation of deserved celebrity." Even great monuments in porphyry and
bronze are less durable than these light and fragile impressions subject to all the chances
of wind, water, and fire, but prevailing by their numbers where the mass succumbs. In other
words, it is with engravings as with books; nor is this the only resemblance between them.
According to Longhi, an engraving is not a copy or imitation, as is sometimes insisted, but
a translation. The engraver translates into another language, where light and shade supply
the place of colors. The duplication of a book in the same language is a copy, and so is the
duplication of a picture in the same material. Evidently an engraving is not a copy; it does
not reproduce the original picture, except in drawing and expression; nor is it a mere imitation,
but, as Bryant's Homer and Longfellow's Dante are presentations of the great originals in another
language, so is the engraving a presentation of painting in another material which is like
another language.

Thus does the engraver vindicate his art. But nobody can examine a choice print without feeling
that it has a merit of its own different from any picture, and inferior only to a good picture.
A work of Raffaelle, or any of the great masters, is better in an engraving of Longhi or Morghen
than in any ordinary copy, and would probably cost more in the market. A good engraving is
an undoubted work of art, but this cannot be said of many pictures, which, like Peter Pindar's
razors, seem made to sell.

Much that belongs to the painter belongs also to the engraver, who must have the same knowledge
of contours, the same power of expression, the same sense of beauty, and the same ability in
drawing with sureness of sight as if, according to Michael Angelo, he had "a pair of compasses
in his eyes." These qualities in a high degree make the artist, whether painter or engraver,
naturally excelling in portraits. But choice portraits are less numerous in engraving than
in painting, for the reason, that painting does not always find a successful translator.

[Sidenote: Dürer.]

The earliest engraved portraits which attract attention are by Albert Dürer, who engraved his
own work, translating himself. His eminence as painter was continued as engraver. Here he surpassed
his predecessors, Martin Schoen in Germany, and Mantegna in Italy, so that Longhi does not
hesitate to say that he was the first who carried the art from infancy in which he found it
to a condition not far from flourishing adolescence. But, while recognizing his great place
in the history of engraving, it is impossible not to see that he is often hard and constrained,
if not unfinished. His portrait of ERASMUS is justly famous, and is conspicuous among the prints
exhibited in the British Museum. It is dated 1526, two years before the death of Dürer, and
has helped to extend the fame of the universal scholar and approved man of letters, who in
his own age filled a sphere not unlike that of Voltaire in a later century. There is another
portrait of Erasmus by Holbein, often repeated, so that two great artists have contributed
to his renown. That by Dürer is admired. The general fineness of touch, with the accessories
of books and flowers, shows the care in its execution; but it wants expression, and the hands
are far from graceful.

Another most interesting portrait by Dürer, executed in the same year with the Erasmus, is
PHILIP MELANCTHON, the St. John of the Reformation, sometimes called the teacher of Germany.
Luther, while speaking of himself as rough, boisterous, stormy, and altogether warlike, says,
"but Master Philippus comes along softly and gently, sowing and watering with joy according
to the rich gifts which God has bestowed upon him." At the date of the print he was twenty-nine
years of age, and the countenance shows the mild reformer.

[Sidenote: Caracci.]

Agostino Caracci, of the Bolognese family, memorable in art, added to considerable success
as painter undoubted triumphs as engraver. His prints are numerous, and many are regarded with
favor; but out of the long list not one is so sure of that longevity allotted to art as his
portrait of TITIAN, which bears date 1587, eleven years after the death of the latter. Over
it is the inscription, Titiani Vicellii Pictoris celeberrimi ac famosissimi vera effigies,
to which is added beneath, Cujus nomen orbis continere non valet! Although founded on originals
by Titian himself, it was probably designed by the remarkable engraver. It is very like, and
yet unlike the familiar portrait of which we have a recent engraving by Mandel, from a repetition
in the gallery of Berlin. Looking at it, we are reminded of the terms by which Vasari described
the great painter, guidicioso, bello e stupendo. Such a head, with such visible power, justifies
these words, or at least makes us believe them entirely applicable. It is bold, broad, strong,
and instinct with life.

This print, like the Erasmus of Dürer, is among those selected for exhibition at the British
Museum, and it deserves the honor. Though only paper with black lines, it is, by the genius
of the artist, as good as a picture. In all engraving nothing is better.

[Sidenote: Goltzius.]

Contemporary with Caracci was Hendrik Goltzius, at Harlem, excellent as painter, but, like
the Italian, pre-eminent as engraver. His prints show mastery of the art, making something
like an epoch in its history. His unwearied skill in the use of the burin appears in a tradition
gathered by Longhi from Wille, that, having commenced a line, he carried it to the end without
once stopping, while the long and bright threads of copper turned up were brushed aside by
his flowing beard, which at the end of a day's labor so shone in the light of a candle that
his companions nicknamed him "the man with the golden beard." There are prints by him which
shine more than his beard. Among his masterpieces is the portrait of his instructor, THEODORE
COERNHERT, engraver, poet, musician, and vindicator of his country, and author of the national
air, "William of Orange," whose passion for liberty did not prevent him from giving to the
world translations of Cicero's Offices and Seneca's Treatise on Beneficence. But that of the
ENGRAVER HIMSELF, as large as life, is one of the most important in the art. Among the numerous
prints by Goltzius, these two will always be conspicuous.

[Sidenote: Pontius.]

[Sidenote: Rembrandt.]

[Sidenote: Visscher.]

In Holland Goltzius had eminent successors. Among these were Paul Pontius, designer and engraver,
whose portrait of RUBENS is of great life and beauty, and Rembrandt, who was not less masterly
in engraving than in painting, as appears sufficiently in his portraits of the BURGOMASTER
SIX, the two COPPENOLS, the ADVOCATE TOLLING, the goldsmith LUTMA, all showing singular facility
and originality. Contemporary with Rembrandt was Cornelis Visscher, also designer and engraver,
whose portraits were unsurpassed in boldness and picturesque effect. At least one authority
has accorded to this artist the palm of engraving, hailing him as Corypheus of the art. Among
his successful portraits is that of a CAT; but all yield to what are known as the GREAT BEARDS,
being the portraits of WILLIAM DE RYCK, an ophthalmist at Amsterdam, and of GELLIUS DE BOUMA,
the Zutphen ecclesiastic. The latter is especially famous. In harmony with the beard is the
heavy face, seventy-seven years old, showing the fulness of long-continued potation, and hands
like the face, original and powerful, if not beautiful.

[Sidenote: Vandyck.]

In contrast with Visscher was his companion Vandyck, who painted portraits with constant beauty
and carried into etching the same Virgilian taste and skill. His aquafortis was not less gentle
than his pencil. Among his etched portraits I would select that of SNYDERS, the animal painter,
as extremely beautiful. M. Renouvier, in his learned and elaborate work, Des Types et des Maniéres
des Maîtres Graveurs, though usually moderate in praise, speaks of these sketches as "possessing
a boldness and delicacy which charm, being taken, at the height of his genius, by the painter
who knew the best how to idealize the painting of portraits."

Such are illustrative instances from Germany, Italy, and Holland. As yet, power rather than
beauty presided, unless in the etchings of Vandyck. But the reign of Louis XIV. was beginning
to assert a supremacy in engraving as in literature. The great school of French engravers which
appeared at this time brought the art to a splendid perfection, which many think has not been
equalled since, so that Masson, Nanteuil, Edelinck, and Drevet may claim fellowship in genius
with their immortal contemporaries, Corneille, Racine, La Fontaine, and Molière.

[Sidenote: Mellan.]

The school was opened by Claude Mellan, more known as engraver than painter, and also author
of most of the designs he engraved. His life, beginning with the sixteenth century, was protracted
beyond ninety years, not without signal honor, for his name appears among the "Illustrious
Men" of France, in the beautiful volumes of Perrault, which is also a homage to the art he
practiced. One of his works, for a long time much admired, was described by this author:

     "It is a Christ's head, designed and shaded, with his crown
     of thorns and the blood that gushes forth from all parts, by
     one single stroke, which, beginning at the tip of the nose,
     and so still circling on, forms most exactly everything that
     is represented in this plate, only by the different
     thickness of the stroke, which, according as it is more or
     less swelling, makes the eyes, nose, mouth, cheeks, hair,
     blood, and thorns; the whole so well represented and with
     such expressions of pain and affliction, that nothing is
     more dolorous or touching."[4]

This print is known as the SUDARIUM OF ST. VERONICA. Longhi records that it was thought at
the time "inimitable," and was praised "to the skies;" but people think differently now. At
best it is a curiosity among portraits. A traveler reported some time ago that it was the sole
print on the walls of the room occupied by the director of the Imperial Cabinet of Engravings
at St. Petersburgh.

[Sidenote: Morin.]

Morin was a contemporary of Mellan, and less famous at the time. His style of engraving was
peculiar, being a mixture of strokes and dots, but so harmonized as to produce a pleasing effect.
One of the best engraved portraits in the history of the art is his CARDINAL BENTIVOGLIO; but
here he translated Vandyck, whose picture is among his best. A fine impression of this print
is a choice possession.

[Sidenote: Masson.]

Among French masters Antoine Masson is conspicuous for brilliant hardihood of style, which,
though failing in taste, is powerful in effect. Metal, armor, velvet, feather, seem as if painted.
He is also most successful in the treatment of hair. His immense skill made him welcome difficulties,
as if to show his ability in overcoming them. His print of HENRI DE LORRAINE, COMTE D'HARCOURT,
known as Cadet à la Perle, from the pearl in the ear, with the date 1667, is often placed at
the head of engraved portraits, although not particularly pleasing or interesting. The vigorous
countenance is aided by the gleam and sheen of the various substances entering into the costume.
Less powerful, but having a charm of its own, is that of BRISACIER, known as the GRAY-HAIRED
MAN, executed in 1664. The remarkable representation of hair in this print has been a model
for artists, especially for Longhi, who recounts that he copied it in his head of Washington.
Somewhat similar is the head of CHARRIER, the criminal judge at Lyons. Though inferior in hair,
it surpasses the other in expression.

[Sidenote: Nanteuil.]

Nanteuil was an artist of different character, being to Masson as Vandyck to Visscher, with
less of vigor than beauty. His original genius was refined by classical studies, and quickened
by diligence. Though dying at the age of forty-eight, he had executed as many as two hundred
and eighty plates, nearly all portraits. The favor he enjoyed during life was not diminished
with time. His works illustrate the reign of Louis XIV., and are still admired. Among these
are portraits of the KING, ANNIE OF AUSTRIA, JOHN BAPTISTE VAN STEENBERGHEN, the Advocate-General
of Holland, a heavy Dutchman, FRANÇOIS DE LA MOTTE LE VAYER, a fine and delicate work, TURENNE,
COLBERT, LAMOIGNON, the poet LORET, MARIDAT DE SERRIÈRE, LOUISE-MARIE DE GONZAGUE, LOUIS HESSELIN,
CHRISTINE OF SWEDEN--all masterpieces; but above these is the POMPONE DE BELLIÈVRE, foremost
among his masterpieces, and a chief masterpiece of art, being, in the judgment of more than
one connoisseur, the most beautiful engraved portrait that exists. That excellent authority,
Dr. Thies, who knew engraving more thoroughly and sympathetically than any person I remember
in our country, said in a letter to myself, as long ago as March, 1858:

     "When I call Nanteuil's Pompone the handsomest engraved
     portrait, I express a conviction to which I came when I
     studied all the remarkable engraved portraits at the royal
     cabinet of engravings at Dresden, and at the large and
     exquisite collection there of the late King of Saxony, and
     in which I was confirmed or perhaps, to which I was led, by
     the director of the two establishments, the late Professor
     Frenzel."

And after describing this head, the learned connoisseur proceeds:--

     "There is an air of refinement, vornehmheit, round the
     mouth and nose as in no other engraving. Color and life
     shine through the skin, and the lips appear red."

It is bold, perhaps, thus to exalt a single portrait, giving to it the palm of Venus; nor do
I know that it is entirely proper to classify portraits according to beauty. In disputing about
beauty, we are too often lost in the variety of individual tastes, and yet each person knows
when he is touched. In proportion as multitudes are touched, there must be merit. As in music
a simple heart-melody is often more effective than any triumph over difficulties, or bravura
of manner, so in engraving the sense of the beautiful may prevail over all else, and this is
the case with the Pompone, although there are portraits by others showing higher art.

No doubt there have been as handsome men, whose portraits were engraved, but not so well. I
know not if Pompone was what would be called a handsome man, although his air is noble and
his countenance bright. But among portraits more boldly, delicately, or elaborately engraved,
there are very few to contest the palm of beauty.

And who is this handsome man to whom the engraver has given a lease of fame? Son, nephew, and
grandson of eminent magistrates, high in the nobility of the robe, with two grandfathers chancellors
of France, himself at the head of the magistry of France, first President of Parliament according
to inscription on the engraving, Senatus Franciæ Princeps, ambassador to Italy, Holland, and
England, charged in the latter country by Cardinal Mazarin with the impossible duty of making
peace between the Long Parliament and Charles the First, and at his death, great benefactor
of the General Hospital of Paris, bestowing upon it riches and the very bed on which he died.
Such is the simple catalogue, and yet it is all forgotten.

A Funeral Panegyric pronounced at his death, now before me in the original pamphlet of the
time,[5] testifies to more than family or office. In himself he was much, and not of those
who, according to the saying of St. Bernard, give out smoke rather than light. Pure glory and
innocent riches were his, which were more precious in the sight of good men, and he showed
himself incorruptible, and not to be bought at any price. It were easy for him to have turned
a deluge of wealth into his house; but he knew that gifts insensibly corrupt,--that the specious
pretext of gratitude is the snare in which the greatest souls allow themselves to be caught,--that
a man covered with favors has difficulty in setting himself against injustice in all its forms,
and that a magistrate divided between a sense of obligations received and the care of the public
interest, which he ought always to promote, is a paralytic magistrate, a magistrate deprived
of a moiety of himself. So spoke the preacher, while he portrayed a charity tender and prompt
for the wretched, a vehemence just and inflexible to the dishonest and wicked, with a sweetness
noble and beneficent for all; dwelling also on his countenance, which had not that severe and
sour austerity that renders justice to the good only with regret, and to the guilty only with
anger; then on his pleasant and gracious address, his intellectual and charming conversation,
his ready and judicious replies, his agreeable and intelligent silence, his refusals, which
were well received and obliging; while, amidst all the pomp and splendor accompanying him,
there shone in his eyes a certain air of humanity and majesty, which secured for him, and for
justice itself, love as well as respect. His benefactions were constant. Not content with giving
only his own, he gave with a beautiful manner still more rare. He could not abide beauty of
intelligence without goodness of soul, and he preferred always the poor, having for them not
only compassion but a sort of reverence. He knew that the way to take the poison from riches
was to make them tasted by those who had them not. The sentiment of Christian charity for the
poor, who were to him in the place of children, was his last thought, as witness especially
the General Hospital endowed by him, and presented by the preacher as the greatest and most
illustrious work ever undertaken by charity the most heroic.

Thus lived and died the splendid Pompone de Bellièvre, with no other children than his works.
Celebrated at the time by a Funeral Panegyric now forgotten, and placed among the Illustrious
Men of France in a work remembered only for its engraved portraits, his famous life shrinks,
in the voluminous Biographie Universelle of Michaud, to the seventh part of a single page,
and in the later Biographie Généralle of Didot disappears entirely. History forgets to mention
him. But the lofty magistrate, ambassador, and benefactor, founder of a great hospital, cannot
be entirely lost from sight so long as his portrait by Nanteuil holds a place in art.

[Sidenote: Edelinck.]

Younger than Nanteuil by ten years, Gérard Edelinck excelled him in genuine mastery. Born at
Antwerp, he became French by adoption, occupying apartments in the Gobelins, and enjoying a
pension from Louis XIV. Longhi says that he is the engraver whose works, not only according
to his own judgment, but that of the most intelligent, deserve the first place among exemplars,
and he attributes to him all perfections in highest degree, design, chiaro-oscuro, ærial perspective,
local tints, softness, lightness, variety, in short everything which can enter into the most
exact representation of the true and beautiful without the aid of color. Others may have surpassed
him in particular things, but, according to the Italian teacher, he remains by common consent
"the prince of engraving." Another critic calls him "king."

It requires no remarkable knowledge to recognize his great merits. Evidently he is a master,
exercising sway with absolute art, and without attempts to bribe the eye by special effects
of light, as on metal or satin. Among his conspicuous productions is the TENT OF DARIUS, a
large engraving on two sheets, after Le Brun, where the family of the Persian monarch prostrate
themselves before Alexander, who approaches with Hephæstion. There is also a HOLY FAMILY, after
Raffaelle, and the BATTLE OF THE STANDARD, after Leonardo da Vinci; but these are less interesting
than his numerous portraits, among which that of PHILIPPE DE CHAMPAIGNE is the chief masterpiece;
but there are others of signal merit, including especially that of MADAME HELIOT, or La Belle
Religieuse, a beautiful French coquette praying before a crucifix; MARTIN VAN DER BOGAERT,
a sculptor; FREDERIC LÉONARD, printer to the king; MOUTON, the Lute-player; MARTINUS DILGERUS,
with a venerable beard white with age; JULES HARDOUIN MANSART, the architect; also a portrait
of POMPONE DE BELLIÈVRE which will be found among the prints of Perrault's Illustrious Men.

The PHILIPPE DE CHAMPAIGNE is the head of that eminent French artist after a painting by himself,
and it contests the palm with the Pompone. Mr. Marsh, who is an authority, prefers it. Dr.
Thies, who places the latter first in beauty, is constrained to allow that the other is "superior
as a work of the graver," being executed with all the resources of the art in its chastest
form. The enthusiasm of Longhi finds expression in unusual praise:

     "The work which goes the most to my blood, and with regard
     to which Edelinck, with good reason, congratulated himself,
     is the portrait of Champaigne. I shall die before I cease to
     contemplate it with wonder always new. Here is seen how he
     was equally great as designer and engraver."[6]

And he then dwells on various details; the skin, the flesh, the eyes living and seeing, the
moistened lips, the chin covered with a beard unshaven for a few days, and the hair in all
its forms.

Between the rival portraits by Nanteuil and Edelinck it is unnecessary to decide. Each is beautiful.
In looking at them we recognize anew the transient honors of public service. The present fame
of Champaigne surpasses that of Pompone. The artist outlives the magistrate. But does not the
poet tell us that "the artist never dies?"

[Sidenote: Drevet.]

As Edelinck passed from the scene, the family of Drevet appeared, especially the son, Pierre
Imbert Drevet, born in 1697, who developed a rare excellence, improving even upon the technics
of his predecessor, and gilding his refined gold. The son was born engraver, for at the age
of thirteen he produced an engraving of exceeding merit. He manifested a singular skill in
rendering different substances, like Masson, by the effect of light, and at the same time gave
to flesh a softness and transparency which remain unsurpassed. To these he added great richness
in picturing costumes and drapery, especially in lace.

He was eminently a portrait engraver, which I must insist is the highest form of the art, as
the human face is the most important object for its exercise. Less clear and simple than Nanteuil,
and less severe than Edelinck, he gave to the face individuality of character, and made his
works conspicuous in art. If there was excess in the accessories, it was before the age of
Sartor Resartus, and he only followed the prevailing style in the popular paintings of Hyacinthe
Rigaud. Art in all its forms had become florid, if not meretricious, and Drevet was a representative
of his age.

Among his works are important masterpieces. I name only BOSSUET, the famed eagle of Meaux;
SAMUEL BERNARD, the rich Councillor of State; FÉNELON, the persuasive teacher and writer; CARDINAL
DUBOIS, the unprincipled minister, and the favorite of the Regent of France; and ADRIENNE LE
COUVREUR, the beautiful and unfortunate actress, linked in love with the Marshal Saxe. The
portrait of Bossuet has everything to attract and charm. There stands the powerful defender
of the Catholic Church, master of French style, and most renowned pulpit orator of France,
in episcopal robes, with abundant lace, which is the perpetual envy of the fair who look at
this transcendent effort. The ermine of Dubois is exquisite, but the general effect of this
portrait does not compare with the Bossuet, next to which, in fascination, I put the Adrienne.
At her death the actress could not be buried in consecrated ground; but through art she has
the perpetual companionship of the greatest bishop of France.

[Sidenote: Balechou.]

[Sidenote: Beauvarlet.]

[Sidenote: Ficquet.]

With the younger Drevet closed the classical period of portraits in engraving, as just before
had closed the Augustan age of French literature. Louis XIV. decreed engraving a fine art,
and established an academy for its cultivation. Pride and ostentation in the king and the great
aristocracy created a demand which the genius of the age supplied. The heights that had been
reached could not be maintained. There were eminent engravers still; but the zenith had been
passed. Balechou, who belonged to the reign of Louis XV., and Beauvarlet, whose life was protracted
beyond the reign of terror, both produced portraits of merit. The former is noted for a certain
clearness and brilliancy, but with a hardness, as of brass or marble, and without entire accuracy
of design; the latter has much softness of manner. They were the best artists of France at
the time; but none of their portraits are famous. To these may be added another contemporary
artist, without predecessor or successor, Stephen Ficquet, unduly disparaged in one of the
dictionaries as "a reputable French engraver," but undoubtedly remarkable for small portraits,
not unlike miniatures, of exquisite finish. Among these the rarest and most admired are LA
FONTAINE, MADAME DE MAINTENON, RUBENS and VANDYCK.

[Sidenote: Schmidt.]

[Sidenote: Wille.]

Two other engravers belong to this intermediate period, though not French in origin: Georg
F. Schmidt, born at Berlin, 1712, and Johann Georg Wille, born in the small town of Königsberg,
in the Grand Duchy of Hesse-Darmstadt, 1717, but attracted to Paris, they became the greatest
engravers of the time. Their work is French, and they are the natural development of that classical
school.

[Sidenote: Schmidt.]

Schmidt was the son of a poor weaver, and lost six precious years as a soldier in the artillery
at Berlin. Owing to the smallness of his size he was at length dismissed, when he surrendered
to a natural talent for engraving. Arriving at Strasburg, on his way to Paris, he fell in with
Wille, a wandering gunsmith, who joined him in his journey, and eventually, in his studies.
The productions of Schmidt show ability, originality, and variety, rather than taste. His numerous
portraits are excellent, being free and life-like, while the accessories of embroidery and
drapery are rendered with effect. As an etcher he ranks next after Rembrandt. Of his portraits
executed with the graver, that of the EMPRESS ELIZABETH OF RUSSIA is usually called the most
important, perhaps on account of the imperial theme, and next those of COUNT RASSAMOWSKY, COUNT
ESTERHAZY, and DE MOUNSEY, which he engraved while in St. Petersburgh, where he was called
by the Empress, founding there the Academy of Engraving. But his real masterpieces are unquestionably
PIERRE MIGNARD and LATOUR, French painters, the latter represented laughing.

[Sidenote: Wille.]

Wille lived to old age, not dying till 1808. During this long life he was active in the art
to which he inclined naturally. His mastership of the graver was perfect, lending itself especially
to the representation of satin and metal, although less happy with flesh. His SATIN GOWN, or
L'Instruction Paternelle, after Terburg, and Les Musiciens Ambulans, after Dietrich, are always
admired. Nothing of the kind in engraving is finer. His style was adapted to pictures of the
Dutch school, and to portraits with rich surroundings. Of the latter the principal are COMTE
DE SAINT-FLORENTIN, POISSON MARQUIS DE MARIGNY, JOHN DE BOULLONGNE, and the CARDINAL DE TENCIN.

[Sidenote: Bervic.]

[Sidenote: Toschi.]

[Sidenote: Desnoyers.]

[Sidenote: Müller.]

[Sidenote: Vangelisti.]

[Sidenote: Anderloni and Jesi.]

Especially eminent was Wille as a teacher. Under his influence the art assumed a new life,
so that he became father of the modern school. His scholars spread everywhere, and among them
are acknowledged masters. He was teacher of Bervic, whose portrait of Louis XVI. in his coronation
robes is of a high order, himself teacher of the Italian Toschi, who, after an eminent career,
died as late as 1858; also teacher of Tardieu, himself teacher of the brilliant Desnoyers,
whose portrait of the EMPEROR NAPOLEON IN HIS CORONATION ROBES is the fit complement to that
of LOUIS XVI.; also teacher of the German, J. G. von Müller, himself father and teacher of
J. Frederick von Müller, engraver of the SISTINE MADONNA, in a plate whose great fame is not
above its merit; also teacher of the Italian Vangelisti, himself teacher of the unsurpassed
Longhi, in whose school were Anderloni and Jesi. Thus not only by his works, but by his famous
scholars, did the humble gunsmith gain sway in art.

Among portraits by this school deserving especial mention is that of KING JEROME OF WESTPHALIA,
brother of Napoleon, by the two Müllers, where the genius of the artist is most conspicuous,
although the subject contributes little. As in the case of the Palace of the Sun, described
by Ovid, Materiam superabat opus. This work is a beautiful example of skill in representation
of fur and lace, not yielding even to Drevet.

[Sidenote: Longhi.]

Longhi was a universal master, and his portraits are only parts of his work. That of WASHINGTON,
which is rare, is evidently founded on Stuart's painting, but after a design of his own, which
is now in the possession of the Swiss Consul at Venice. The artist felicitated himself on the
hair, which is modelled after the French masters.[7] The portraits of MICHAEL ANGELO, and of
DANDOLO, the venerable Doge of Venice, are admired; so also is the NAPOLEON, AS KING OF ITALY,
with the iron crown and finest lace. But his chief portrait is that of EUGENE BEAUHARNAIS,
VICEROY OF ITALY, full length, remarkable for plume in the cap, which is finished with surpassing
skill.

[Sidenote: Morghen.]

Contemporary with Longhi was another Italian engraver of widely extended fame, who was not
the product of the French school, Raffaelle Morghen, born at Florence in 1758. His works have
enjoyed a popularity beyond those of other masters, partly from the interest of their subjects,
and partly from their soft and captivating style, although they do not possess the graceful
power of Nanteuil and Edelinck, and are without variety. He was scholar and son-in-law of Volpato,
of Rome; himself scholar of Wagner, of Venice, whose homely round faces were not high models
in art. The AURORA, OF GUIDO, and the LAST SUPPER, OF LEONARDO DA VINCI, stand high in engraving,
especially the latter, which occupied Morghen three years. Of his two hundred and one works,
no less than seventy-three are portraits, among which are the Italian poets DANTE, PETRARCH,
ARIOSTO, TASSO, also BOCCACCIO, and a head called RAFFAELLE, but supposed to be that of BENDO
ALTOVITI, the great painter's friend, and especially the DUKE OF MENCADA on horseback, after
Vandyck, which has received warm praise. But none of his portraits is calculated to give greater
pleasure than that of LEONARDO DA VINCI, which may vie in beauty even with the famous Pompone.
Here is the beauty of years and of serene intelligence. Looking at that tranquil countenance,
it is easy to imagine the large and various capacities which made him not only painter, but
sculptor, architect, musician, poet, discoverer, philosopher, even predecessor of Galileo and
Bacon. Such a character deserves the immortality of art. Happily an old Venetian engraving
reproduced in our day,[8] enables us to see this same countenance at an earlier period of life,
with sparkle in the eye.

Raffaelle Morghen left no scholars who have followed him in portraits; but his own works are
still regarded, and a monument in Santa Croce, the Westminster Abbey of Florence, places him
among the mighty dead of Italy.

[Sidenote: Houbraken]

Thus far nothing has been said of English engravers. Here, as in art generally, England seems
removed from the rest of the world; Et penitus toto divisos orbe Britannos. But though beyond
the sphere of Continental art, the island of Shakespeare was not inhospitable to some of its
representatives. Vandyck, Rubens, Sir Peter Lely, and Sir Godfrey Kneller, all Dutch artists,
painted the portraits of Englishmen, and engraving was first illustrated by foreigners. Jacob
Houbraken, another Dutch artist, born in 1698, was employed to execute portraits for Birch's
"Heads of Illustrious Persons of Great Britain," published at London in 1743, and in these
works may be seen the æsthetic taste inherited from his father, author of the biography of
Dutch artists, and improved by study of the French masters. Although without great force or
originality of manner, many of these have positive beauty. I would name especially the SIR
WALTER RALEIGH and JOHN DRYDEN.

[Sidenote: Bartolozzi.]

Different in style was Bartolozzi, the Italian, who made his home in England for forty years,
ending in 1807, when he removed to Lisbon. The considerable genius which he possessed was spoilt
by haste in execution, superseding that care which is an essential condition of art. Hence
sameness in his work and indifference to the picture he copied. Longhi speaks of him as "most
unfaithful to his archetypes," and, "whatever the originals, being always Bartolozzi." Among
his portraits of especial interest are several old "wigs," as MANSFIELD and THURLOW; also the
DEATH OF CHATHAM, after the picture of Copley in the Vernon Gallery. But his prettiest piece
undoubtedly is MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS, with her little son James I., after what Mrs. Jameson calls
"the lovely picture of Zuccaro at Chiswick." In the same style are his vignettes, which are
of acknowledged beauty.

[Sidenote: Strange.]

