A new invention for heating rooms has met with much encouragement in Paris. A piece of quick-lime
dipped into water, and shut hermetically into a box constructed for the purpose, is said to
give almost a purgatory-heat, and prevent the necessity of fire during winter.--Lit. Gaz.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR;

AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLDEN RULES.

TO RENDER MEN HONEST, RESPECTABLE, AND HAPPY.

By Sir Richard Phillips.

All members of the human family should remember, that the human race is, as to time and nature,
but as one totality; for, since every man and woman had two parents, each parent two parents,
and so on in geometrical progression, hence every individual, high or low, must necessarily
be descended from every individual of the whole population as it existed but a few hundred
years before, whether they were high or low, virtuous or abandoned; while every procreative
individual of the existing race must be the actual progenitor of the entire race which may
exist at the same distance of future time. What motives for charity, for forbearing from injuries,
for benevolence, for universal love.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bed of sickness, with its increased sensibility of nerves, is a delicate test of man's
conscience, and of self-approbation or reprobation. Requiring sympathy himself, he now sympathizes
with others; and, unable to direct his thoughts to external things, they are forced upon himself.
Great is then his solace, and efficacious his medicines, if he has no other reflections than
such as are supplied by his justice, liberality, and benevolence; but accumulated will be his
sufferings, and dangerous the result, if crimes and misdeeds force themselves at such a time
on his mind; while in any delirium of fever he will rave on those subjects, and, without vision,
will often perceive, by the mere excitement of his brain, the spectres of the injured making
grimaces before him.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you are rich, and want to enjoy the exalted luxury of relieving distress, go to the Bankrupt
Court, to the Court for Insolvent Debtors, to the gaols, the work-houses, and the hospitals.
If you are rich and childless, and want heirs, look to the same assemblages of misfortune;
for all are not culpable who appear in the Bankrupt and Insolvent Lists; nor all criminal who
are found in gaols; nor all improvident who are inmates of work-houses and hospitals. On the
contrary, in these situations, an alloy of vice is mixed with virtue enough to afford materials
for as deep tragedies as ever poet fancied or stage exhibited; and visiters of relief would
act the part of angels descending from Heaven among men, whose chief affliction is the neglect
of unthinking affluence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marriage is a circumstance of life, which, in its actual course, involves the feelings and
fortunes of human beings more than any other event of their lives. It is a connexion generally
formed by inexperience, under the blindness and caprice of passion; and, though these conditions
cannot be avoided, as forming the bases of the connexion, yet it is so important, that a man
is never ruined who has an interesting, faithful, and virtuous wife; while he is lost to comfort,
fortune, and even to hope, who has united himself to a vicious and unprincipled one. The fate
of woman is still more intimately blended with that of her husband; for, being in the eyes
of the law and the world but second to him, she is the victim of his follies and vices at home,
and of his ill success and degradation abroad. Rules are useless, where passions, founded on
trifling associations and accidents, govern; but much mischief often results from fathers expecting
young men to be in the social position of old ones, and from present fortune being preferred
to virtues; for industry and talent, stimulated by affection, and fostered by family interests,
soon create competency and fortune; while a connexion founded on mere wealth, which is often
speedily wasted by dissipation, habits of extravagance, and the chances of life, necessarily
ends in disappointment, disgust, and misery.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wretched is the man who has no employment but to watch his own digestions; and who, on waking
in the morning, has no useful occupation of the day presented to his mind. To such a one respiration
is a toil, and existence a continued disease. Self-oblivion is his only resource, indulgence
in alcohol in various disguises his remedy, and death or superstition his only comfort and
hope. For what was he born, and why does he live? are questions which he constantly asks himself;
and his greatest enigmas are the smiling faces of habitual industry, stimulated by the wants
of the day, or fears for the future. If he is excited to exertion, it is commonly to indulge
some vicious propensity, or display his scorn of those pursuits which render others happier
than himself. If he seek to relieve his inanity in books, his literature ascends no higher
than the romances, the newspapers, or the scandal, of the day; and all the nobler pursuits
of mind, as well as body, are utterly lost in regard to him. His passage through life is like
that of a bird through the air, and his final cause appears merely to be that of sustaining
the worms in his costly tomb.

       *       *       *       *       *

The decline of life, and the retrospections of old age, furnish unequivocal tests of worthiness
and unworthiness. Happy is the man, who, after a well-spent life, can contemplate the rapid
approach of his last year with the consciousness that, if he were born again, he could not,
under all the circumstances of his worldly position, have done better, and who has inflicted
no injuries for which it is too late to atone. Wretched, on the contrary, is he, who is obliged
to look back on a youth of idleness and profligacy, on a manhood of selfishness and sensuality,
and on a career of hypocrisy, of insensibility, of concealed crime, and of injustice above
the reach of law. Visit both during the decay of their systems, observe their feelings and
tempers, view the followers at their funerals, count the tears on their graves; and, after
such a comparison, in good time make your own choice.

       *       *       *       *       *

Constant change is the feature of society. The world is like a magic lantern, or the shifting
scenes in a pantomime. TEN YEARS convert the population of schools into men and women, the
young into fathers and matrons, make and mar fortunes, and bury the last generation but one.
TWENTY YEARS convert infants into lovers, and fathers and mothers, render youth the operative
generation, decide men's fortunes and distinctions, convert active men into crawling drivellers,
and bury all the preceding generation. THIRTY YEARS raise an active generation from nonentity,
change fascinating beauties into merely bearable old women, convert lovers into grandfathers
and grandmothers, and bury the active generation, or reduce them to decrepitude and imbecility.
FORTY YEARS, alas! change the face of all society; infants are growing old, the bloom of youth
and beauty has passed away, two active generations have been swept from the stage of life,
names so cherished are forgotten, and unsuspected candidates for fame have started from the
exhaustless womb of nature. FIFTY YEARS! why should any desire to retain their affections from
maturity for fifty years? It is to behold a world which they do not know, and to which they
are unknown; it is to live to weep for the generations passed away, for lovers, for parents,
for children, for friends, in the grave; it is to see every thing turned upside down by the
fickle hand of fortune, and the absolute despotism of time; it is, in a word, to behold the
vanity of human life in all its varieties of display!

Social Philosophy.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.
SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHERRY.

Commentators have puzzled themselves to find out Falstaff's sherries sack: there can be no
doubt but that it was dry sherry, and the French word sec dry, corrupted into sack. In a poem
printed in 1619, sack and sherry are noted throughout as synonymous, every stanza of twelve
ending--

  Give me sack, old sack, boys,
    To make the muses merry,
  The life of mirth, and the joy of the earth,
    Is a cup of old sherry.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS WILL.

  By a Student of the University of Dublin.
  Cum ita semper me amares,
  How to reward you all my care is,
  Consilium tibi do imprimis
  For I believe that short my time is;
  Amice Admodum amande,
  Pray thee leave off thy drinking brandy,
  Video qua sorte jaceo hic,
  'Tis all for that, O sick! O sick!
  Mors mea, vexat matrem piam,
  No dog was e'er so sick as I am.
  Secundo mi amice bone,
  My breeches take, but there's no money,
  Et vestes etiam tibi dentur,
  If such old things to wear you'll venture;
  Pediculos si potes pellas,
  But they are sometimes prince's fellows;
  Accipe libros etiam musam,
  If I had lived I ne'er had used them,
  Spero quod his contentus eris,
  For I've a friend almost as dear is,
  Vale ne plus tibi detur.
  But send her up, Jack, if you meet her.

C.K.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD ST. PAUL'S.

In the old cathedral of St. Paul, walks were laid out for merchants, as in the Royal Exchange.
Thus, "the south alley for usurye, and poperye; the north for simony and the horse fair; in
the middest for all kinds of bargains, meetings, brawlings, murthers, conspiracies; and the
font for ordinary paiements of money, are so well knowne to all menne as the beggar knows his
dishe."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LINCOLNSHIRE EEL,

A bit of Munchausen.

In the year 1702, there was a universal complaint among the feeders of cattle in the fens,
that they frequently lost a horse, an ox, or a cow, and could not discover by what means; when
watching more narrowly, they observed a horse, and presently after a cow, go to the river to
drink, and suddenly disappear. On going to the river-side they saw an eel, the body of which
was as large as an elephant. They could not doubt but this was the thief who had so often robbed
them of their cattle, and they very reasonably concluded if they could catch the eel, their
cattle would henceforth drink in safety. A council being called among the farmers, they determined
upon the following expedient:--They sent to London and purchased a cable and anchor, by way
of fishing-line and hook, and roasted a young bullock, with which they baited the hook, and
fastened the end of the cable round a barn, which stood about a hundred feet from the river,
and then waited to see what the morning would produce. At break of day they repaired to the
riverside, when, to their great astonishment, they found that the eel had been there and swallowed
the bait, but in endeavouring to disengage himself, had pulled the barn after him into the
river, and having broken the cable, made his escape.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the present is published a SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER, containing the SPIRIT of "the ANNUALS"
for 1829--with Critical Notices of their Engravings and Literary Contents, copious Selections,
and Unique Extracts, and a FINE ENGRAVING from a splendid subject; in one of the most popular
of these elegant works.