Mrs. Archer, who was fond of coining her social philosophy into axioms, had once said:  "We
all have our pet common people--" and though the phrase was a daring one, its truth was secretly
admitted in many an exclusive bosom.  But the Beauforts were not exactly common; some people
said they were even worse.  Mrs. Beaufort belonged indeed to one of America's most honoured
families; she had been the lovely Regina Dallas (of the South Carolina branch), a penniless
beauty introduced to New York society by her cousin, the imprudent Medora Manson, who was always
doing the wrong thing from the right motive.  When one was related to the Mansons and the Rushworths
one had a "droit de cite" (as Mr. Sillerton Jackson, who had frequented the Tuileries, called
it) in New York society; but did one not forfeit it in marrying Julius Beaufort?

The question was: who was Beaufort?  He passed for an Englishman, was agreeable, handsome,
ill-tempered, hospitable and witty.  He had come to America with letters of recommendation
from old Mrs. Manson Mingott's English son-in-law, the banker, and had speedily made himself
an important position in the world of affairs; but his habits were dissipated, his tongue was
bitter, his antecedents were mysterious; and when Medora Manson announced her cousin's engagement
to him it was felt to be one more act of folly in poor Medora's long record of imprudences.

But folly is as often justified of her children as wisdom, and two years after young Mrs. Beaufort's
marriage it was admitted that she had the most distinguished house in New York.  No one knew
exactly how the miracle was accomplished.  She was indolent, passive, the caustic even called
her dull; but dressed like an idol, hung with pearls, growing younger and blonder and more
beautiful each year, she throned in Mr. Beaufort's heavy brown-stone palace, and drew all the
world there without lifting her jewelled little finger.  The knowing people said it was Beaufort
himself who trained the servants, taught the chef new dishes, told the gardeners what hot-house
flowers to grow for the dinner-table and the drawing-rooms, selected the guests, brewed the
after-dinner punch and dictated the little notes his wife wrote to her friends.  If he did,
these domestic activities were privately performed, and he presented to the world the appearance
of a careless and hospitable millionaire strolling into his own drawing-room with the detachment
of an invited guest, and saying:  "My wife's gloxinias are a marvel, aren't they?  I believe
she gets them out from Kew."

Mr. Beaufort's secret, people were agreed, was the way he carried things off.  It was all very
well to whisper that he had been "helped" to leave England by the international banking-house
in which he had been employed; he carried off that rumour as easily as the rest--though New
York's business conscience was no less sensitive than its moral standard--he carried everything
before him, and all New York into his drawing-rooms, and for over twenty years now people had
said they were "going to the Beauforts'" with the same tone of security as if they had said
they were going to Mrs. Manson Mingott's, and with the added satisfaction of knowing they would
get hot canvas-back ducks and vintage wines, instead of tepid Veuve Clicquot without a year
and warmed-up croquettes from Philadelphia.

Mrs. Beaufort, then, had as usual appeared in her box just before the Jewel Song; and when,
again as usual, she rose at the end of the third act, drew her opera cloak about her lovely
shoulders, and disappeared, New York knew that meant that half an hour later the ball would begin.

The Beaufort house was one that New Yorkers were proud to show to foreigners, especially on
the night of the annual ball.  The Beauforts had been among the first people in New York to
own their own red velvet carpet and have it rolled down the steps by their own footmen, under
their own awning, instead of hiring it with the supper and the ball-room chairs.  They had
also inaugurated the custom of letting the ladies take their cloaks off in the hall, instead
of shuffling up to the hostess's bedroom and recurling their hair with the aid of the gas-burner;
Beaufort was understood to have said that he supposed all his wife's friends had maids who
saw to it that they were properly coiffees when they left home.

Then the house had been boldly planned with a ball-room, so that, instead of squeezing through
a narrow passage to get to it (as at the Chiverses') one marched solemnly down a vista of enfiladed
drawing-rooms (the sea-green, the crimson and the bouton d'or), seeing from afar the many-candled
lustres reflected in the polished parquetry, and beyond that the depths of a conservatory where
camellias and tree-ferns arched their costly foliage over seats of black and gold bamboo.

Newland Archer, as became a young man of his position, strolled in somewhat late.  He had left
his overcoat with the silk-stockinged footmen (the stockings were one of Beaufort's few fatuities),
had dawdled a while in the library hung with Spanish leather and furnished with Buhl and malachite,
where a few men were chatting and putting on their dancing-gloves, and had finally joined the
line of guests whom Mrs. Beaufort was receiving on the threshold of the crimson drawing-room.

Archer was distinctly nervous.  He had not gone back to his club after the Opera (as the young
bloods usually did), but, the night being fine, had walked for some distance up Fifth Avenue
before turning back in the direction of the Beauforts' house.  He was definitely afraid that
the Mingotts might be going too far; that, in fact, they might have Granny Mingott's orders
to bring the Countess Olenska to the ball.

From the tone of the club box he had perceived how grave a mistake that would be; and, though
he was more than ever determined to "see the thing through," he felt less chivalrously eager
to champion his betrothed's cousin than before their brief talk at the Opera.

Wandering on to the bouton d'or drawing-room (where Beaufort had had the audacity to hang "Love
Victorious," the much-discussed nude of Bouguereau) Archer found Mrs. Welland and her daughter
standing near the ball-room door.  Couples were already gliding over the floor beyond: the
light of the wax candles fell on revolving tulle skirts, on girlish heads wreathed with modest
blossoms, on the dashing aigrettes and ornaments of the young married women's coiffures, and
on the glitter of highly glazed shirt-fronts and fresh glace gloves.

Miss Welland, evidently about to join the dancers, hung on the threshold, her lilies-of-the-valley
in her hand (she carried no other bouquet), her face a little pale, her eyes burning with a
candid excitement.  A group of young men and girls were gathered about her, and there was much
hand-clasping, laughing and pleasantry on which Mrs. Welland, standing slightly apart, shed
the beam of a qualified approval.  It was evident that Miss Welland was in the act of announcing
her engagement, while her mother affected the air of parental reluctance considered suitable
to the occasion.

Archer paused a moment.  It was at his express wish that the announcement had been made, and
yet it was not thus that he would have wished to have his happiness known.  To proclaim it
in the heat and noise of a crowded ball-room was to rob it of the fine bloom of privacy which
should belong to things nearest the heart.  His joy was so deep that this blurring of the surface
left its essence untouched; but he would have liked to keep the surface pure too.  It was something
of a satisfaction to find that May Welland shared this feeling.  Her eyes fled to his beseechingly,
and their look said:  "Remember, we're doing this because it's right."

No appeal could have found a more immediate response in Archer's breast; but he wished that
the necessity of their action had been represented by some ideal reason, and not simply by
poor Ellen Olenska. The group about Miss Welland made way for him with significant smiles,
and after taking his share of the felicitations he drew his betrothed into the middle of the
ball-room floor and put his arm about her waist.

"Now we shan't have to talk," he said, smiling into her candid eyes, as they floated away on
the soft waves of the Blue Danube.

She made no answer.  Her lips trembled into a smile, but the eyes remained distant and serious,
as if bent on some ineffable vision. "Dear," Archer whispered, pressing her to him: it was
borne in on him that the first hours of being engaged, even if spent in a ball-room, had in
them something grave and sacramental.  What a new life it was going to be, with this whiteness,
radiance, goodness at one's side!

The dance over, the two, as became an affianced couple, wandered into the conservatory; and
sitting behind a tall screen of tree-ferns and camellias Newland pressed her gloved hand to
his lips.

"You see I did as you asked me to," she said.

"Yes: I couldn't wait," he answered smiling.  After a moment he added: "Only I wish it hadn't
had to be at a ball."

"Yes, I know."  She met his glance comprehendingly.  "But after all--even here we're alone
together, aren't we?"

"Oh, dearest--always!" Archer cried.

Evidently she was always going to understand; she was always going to say the right thing.
The discovery made the cup of his bliss overflow, and he went on gaily:  "The worst of it is
that I want to kiss you and I can't."  As he spoke he took a swift glance about the conservatory,
assured himself of their momentary privacy, and catching her to him laid a fugitive pressure
on her lips.  To counteract the audacity of this proceeding he led her to a bamboo sofa in
a less secluded part of the conservatory, and sitting down beside her broke a lily-of-the-valley
from her bouquet.  She sat silent, and the world lay like a sunlit valley at their feet.

"Did you tell my cousin Ellen?" she asked presently, as if she spoke through a dream.

He roused himself, and remembered that he had not done so.  Some invincible repugnance to speak
of such things to the strange foreign woman had checked the words on his lips.

"No--I hadn't the chance after all," he said, fibbing hastily.

"Ah."  She looked disappointed, but gently resolved on gaining her point.  "You must, then,
for I didn't either; and I shouldn't like her to think--"

"Of course not.  But aren't you, after all, the person to do it?"

She pondered on this.  "If I'd done it at the right time, yes: but now that there's been a
delay I think you must explain that I'd asked you to tell her at the Opera, before our speaking
about it to everybody here.  Otherwise she might think I had forgotten her.  You see, she's
one of the family, and she's been away so long that she's rather--sensitive."

Archer looked at her glowingly.  "Dear and great angel!  Of course I'll tell her."  He glanced
a trifle apprehensively toward the crowded ball-room.  "But I haven't seen her yet.  Has she come?"

"No; at the last minute she decided not to."

"At the last minute?" he echoed, betraying his surprise that she should ever have considered
the alternative possible.

"Yes.  She's awfully fond of dancing," the young girl answered simply. "But suddenly she made
up her mind that her dress wasn't smart enough for a ball, though we thought it so lovely;
and so my aunt had to take her home."

"Oh, well--" said Archer with happy indifference.  Nothing about his betrothed pleased him
more than her resolute determination to carry to its utmost limit that ritual of ignoring the
"unpleasant" in which they had both been brought up.

"She knows as well as I do," he reflected, "the real reason of her cousin's staying away; but
I shall never let her see by the least sign that I am conscious of there being a shadow of
a shade on poor Ellen Olenska's reputation."

IV.

In the course of the next day the first of the usual betrothal visits were exchanged.  The
New York ritual was precise and inflexible in such matters; and in conformity with it Newland
Archer first went with his mother and sister to call on Mrs. Welland, after which he and Mrs.
Welland and May drove out to old Mrs. Manson Mingott's to receive that venerable ancestress's
blessing.

A visit to Mrs. Manson Mingott was always an amusing episode to the young man.  The house in
itself was already an historic document, though not, of course, as venerable as certain other
old family houses in University Place and lower Fifth Avenue.  Those were of the purest 1830,
with a grim harmony of cabbage-rose-garlanded carpets, rosewood consoles, round-arched fire-places
with black marble mantels, and immense glazed book-cases of mahogany; whereas old Mrs. Mingott,
who had built her house later, had bodily cast out the massive furniture of her prime, and
mingled with the Mingott heirlooms the frivolous upholstery of the Second Empire.  It was her
habit to sit in a window of her sitting-room on the ground floor, as if watching calmly for
life and fashion to flow northward to her solitary doors.  She seemed in no hurry to have them
come, for her patience was equalled by her confidence.  She was sure that presently the hoardings,
the quarries, the one-story saloons, the wooden green-houses in ragged gardens, and the rocks
from which goats surveyed the scene, would vanish before the advance of residences as stately
as her own--perhaps (for she was an impartial woman) even statelier; and that the cobble-stones
over which the old clattering omnibuses bumped would be replaced by smooth asphalt, such as
people reported having seen in Paris.  Meanwhile, as every one she cared to see came to HER
(and she could fill her rooms as easily as the Beauforts, and without adding a single item
to the menu of her suppers), she did not suffer from her geographic isolation.

The burden of Mrs. Manson Mingott's flesh had long since made it impossible for her to go up
and down stairs, and with characteristic independence she had made her reception rooms upstairs
and established herself (in flagrant violation of all the New York proprieties) on the ground
floor of her house; so that, as you sat in her sitting-room window with her, you caught (through
a door that was always open, and a looped-back yellow damask portiere) the unexpected vista
of a bedroom with a huge low bed upholstered like a sofa, and a toilet-table with frivolous
lace flounces and a gilt-framed mirror.

Her visitors were startled and fascinated by the foreignness of this arrangement, which recalled
scenes in French fiction, and architectural incentives to immorality such as the simple American
had never dreamed of.  That was how women with lovers lived in the wicked old societies, in
apartments with all the rooms on one floor, and all the indecent propinquities that their novels
described.  It amused Newland Archer (who had secretly situated the love-scenes of "Monsieur
de Camors" in Mrs. Mingott's bedroom) to picture her blameless life led in the stage-setting
of adultery; but he said to himself, with considerable admiration, that if a lover had been
what she wanted, the intrepid woman would have had him too.

To the general relief the Countess Olenska was not present in her grandmother's drawing-room
during the visit of the betrothed couple. Mrs. Mingott said she had gone out; which, on a day
of such glaring sunlight, and at the "shopping hour," seemed in itself an indelicate thing
for a compromised woman to do.  But at any rate it spared them the embarrassment of her presence,
and the faint shadow that her unhappy past might seem to shed on their radiant future.  The
visit went off successfully, as was to have been expected.  Old Mrs. Mingott was delighted
with the engagement, which, being long foreseen by watchful relatives, had been carefully passed
upon in family council; and the engagement ring, a large thick sapphire set in invisible claws,
met with her unqualified admiration.

"It's the new setting: of course it shows the stone beautifully, but it looks a little bare
to old-fashioned eyes," Mrs. Welland had explained, with a conciliatory side-glance at her
future son-in-law.

"Old-fashioned eyes?  I hope you don't mean mine, my dear?  I like all the novelties," said
the ancestress, lifting the stone to her small bright orbs, which no glasses had ever disfigured.
"Very handsome," she added, returning the jewel; "very liberal.  In my time a cameo set in
pearls was thought sufficient.  But it's the hand that sets off the ring, isn't it, my dear
Mr. Archer?" and she waved one of her tiny hands, with small pointed nails and rolls of aged
fat encircling the wrist like ivory bracelets.  "Mine was modelled in Rome by the great Ferrigiani.
You should have May's done: no doubt he'll have it done, my child.  Her hand is large--it's
these modern sports that spread the joints--but the skin is white.--And when's the wedding
to be?" she broke off, fixing her eyes on Archer's face.

"Oh--" Mrs. Welland murmured, while the young man, smiling at his betrothed, replied:  "As
soon as ever it can, if only you'll back me up, Mrs. Mingott."

"We must give them time to get to know each other a little better, mamma," Mrs. Welland interposed,
with the proper affectation of reluctance; to which the ancestress rejoined:  "Know each other?
Fiddlesticks!  Everybody in New York has always known everybody.  Let the young man have his
way, my dear; don't wait till the bubble's off the wine.  Marry them before Lent; I may catch
pneumonia any winter now, and I want to give the wedding-breakfast."

These successive statements were received with the proper expressions of amusement, incredulity
and gratitude; and the visit was breaking up in a vein of mild pleasantry when the door opened
to admit the Countess Olenska, who entered in bonnet and mantle followed by the unexpected
figure of Julius Beaufort.

There was a cousinly murmur of pleasure between the ladies, and Mrs. Mingott held out Ferrigiani's
model to the banker.  "Ha!  Beaufort, this is a rare favour!" (She had an odd foreign way of
addressing men by their surnames.)

"Thanks.  I wish it might happen oftener," said the visitor in his easy arrogant way.  "I'm
generally so tied down; but I met the Countess Ellen in Madison Square, and she was good enough
to let me walk home with her."

"Ah--I hope the house will be gayer, now that Ellen's here!" cried Mrs. Mingott with a glorious
effrontery.  "Sit down--sit down, Beaufort: push up the yellow armchair; now I've got you I
want a good gossip.  I hear your ball was magnificent; and I understand you invited Mrs. Lemuel
Struthers?  Well--I've a curiosity to see the woman myself."

She had forgotten her relatives, who were drifting out into the hall under Ellen Olenska's
guidance.  Old Mrs. Mingott had always professed a great admiration for Julius Beaufort, and
there was a kind of kinship in their cool domineering way and their short-cuts through the
conventions.  Now she was eagerly curious to know what had decided the Beauforts to invite
(for the first time) Mrs. Lemuel Struthers, the widow of Struthers's Shoe-polish, who had returned
the previous year from a long initiatory sojourn in Europe to lay siege to the tight little
citadel of New York.  "Of course if you and Regina invite her the thing is settled.  Well,
we need new blood and new money--and I hear she's still very good-looking," the carnivorous
old lady declared.

In the hall, while Mrs. Welland and May drew on their furs, Archer saw that the Countess Olenska
was looking at him with a faintly questioning smile.

"Of course you know already--about May and me," he said, answering her look with a shy laugh.
"She scolded me for not giving you the news last night at the Opera: I had her orders to tell
you that we were engaged--but I couldn't, in that crowd."

The smile passed from Countess Olenska's eyes to her lips: she looked younger, more like the
bold brown Ellen Mingott of his boyhood.  "Of course I know; yes.  And I'm so glad.  But one
doesn't tell such things first in a crowd."  The ladies were on the threshold and she held
out her hand.

"Good-bye; come and see me some day," she said, still looking at Archer.

In the carriage, on the way down Fifth Avenue, they talked pointedly of Mrs. Mingott, of her
age, her spirit, and all her wonderful attributes. No one alluded to Ellen Olenska; but Archer
knew that Mrs. Welland was thinking:  "It's a mistake for Ellen to be seen, the very day after
her arrival, parading up Fifth Avenue at the crowded hour with Julius Beaufort--" and the young
man himself mentally added:  "And she ought to know that a man who's just engaged doesn't spend
his time calling on married women.  But I daresay in the set she's lived in they do--they never
do anything else." And, in spite of the cosmopolitan views on which he prided himself, he thanked
heaven that he was a New Yorker, and about to ally himself with one of his own kind.

V.

The next evening old Mr. Sillerton Jackson came to dine with the Archers.

Mrs. Archer was a shy woman and shrank from society; but she liked to be well-informed as to
its doings.  Her old friend Mr. Sillerton Jackson applied to the investigation of his friends'
affairs the patience of a collector and the science of a naturalist; and his sister, Miss Sophy
Jackson, who lived with him, and was entertained by all the people who could not secure her
much-sought-after brother, brought home bits of minor gossip that filled out usefully the gaps
in his picture.

Therefore, whenever anything happened that Mrs. Archer wanted to know about, she asked Mr.
Jackson to dine; and as she honoured few people with her invitations, and as she and her daughter
Janey were an excellent audience, Mr. Jackson usually came himself instead of sending his sister.
If he could have dictated all the conditions, he would have chosen the evenings when Newland
was out; not because the young man was uncongenial to him (the two got on capitally at their
club) but because the old anecdotist sometimes felt, on Newland's part, a tendency to weigh
his evidence that the ladies of the family never showed.

Mr. Jackson, if perfection had been attainable on earth, would also have asked that Mrs. Archer's
food should be a little better.  But then New York, as far back as the mind of man could travel,
had been divided into the two great fundamental groups of the Mingotts and Mansons and all
their clan, who cared about eating and clothes and money, and the Archer-Newland-van-der-Luyden
tribe, who were devoted to travel, horticulture and the best fiction, and looked down on the
grosser forms of pleasure.

You couldn't have everything, after all.  If you dined with the Lovell Mingotts you got canvas-back
and terrapin and vintage wines; at Adeline Archer's you could talk about Alpine scenery and
"The Marble Faun"; and luckily the Archer Madeira had gone round the Cape.  Therefore when
a friendly summons came from Mrs. Archer, Mr. Jackson, who was a true eclectic, would usually
say to his sister:  "I've been a little gouty since my last dinner at the Lovell Mingotts'--it
will do me good to diet at Adeline's."

Mrs. Archer, who had long been a widow, lived with her son and daughter in West Twenty-eighth
Street.  An upper floor was dedicated to Newland, and the two women squeezed themselves into
narrower quarters below.  In an unclouded harmony of tastes and interests they cultivated ferns
in Wardian cases, made macrame lace and wool embroidery on linen, collected American revolutionary
glazed ware, subscribed to "Good Words," and read Ouida's novels for the sake of the Italian
atmosphere. (They preferred those about peasant life, because of the descriptions of scenery
and the pleasanter sentiments, though in general they liked novels about people in society,
whose motives and habits were more comprehensible, spoke severely of Dickens, who "had never
drawn a gentleman," and considered Thackeray less at home in the great world than Bulwer--who,
however, was beginning to be thought old-fashioned.) Mrs. and Miss Archer were both great lovers
of scenery.  It was what they principally sought and admired on their occasional travels abroad;
considering architecture and painting as subjects for men, and chiefly for learned persons
who read Ruskin.  Mrs. Archer had been born a Newland, and mother and daughter, who were as
like as sisters, were both, as people said, "true Newlands"; tall, pale, and slightly round-shouldered,
with long noses, sweet smiles and a kind of drooping distinction like that in certain faded
Reynolds portraits.  Their physical resemblance would have been complete if an elderly embonpoint
had not stretched Mrs. Archer's black brocade, while Miss Archer's brown and purple poplins
hung, as the years went on, more and more slackly on her virgin frame.

Mentally, the likeness between them, as Newland was aware, was less complete than their identical
mannerisms often made it appear.  The long habit of living together in mutually dependent intimacy
had given them the same vocabulary, and the same habit of beginning their phrases "Mother thinks"
or "Janey thinks," according as one or the other wished to advance an opinion of her own; but
in reality, while Mrs. Archer's serene unimaginativeness rested easily in the accepted and
familiar, Janey was subject to starts and aberrations of fancy welling up from springs of suppressed
romance.

Mother and daughter adored each other and revered their son and brother; and Archer loved them
with a tenderness made compunctious and uncritical by the sense of their exaggerated admiration,
and by his secret satisfaction in it.  After all, he thought it a good thing for a man to have
his authority respected in his own house, even if his sense of humour sometimes made him question
the force of his mandate.

On this occasion the young man was very sure that Mr. Jackson would rather have had him dine
out; but he had his own reasons for not doing so.

Of course old Jackson wanted to talk about Ellen Olenska, and of course Mrs. Archer and Janey
wanted to hear what he had to tell.  All three would be slightly embarrassed by Newland's presence,
now that his prospective relation to the Mingott clan had been made known; and the young man
waited with an amused curiosity to see how they would turn the difficulty.

They began, obliquely, by talking about Mrs. Lemuel Struthers.

"It's a pity the Beauforts asked her," Mrs. Archer said gently.  "But then Regina always does
what he tells her; and BEAUFORT--"

"Certain nuances escape Beaufort," said Mr. Jackson, cautiously inspecting the broiled shad,
and wondering for the thousandth time why Mrs. Archer's cook always burnt the roe to a cinder.
(Newland, who had long shared his wonder, could always detect it in the older man's expression
of melancholy disapproval.)

"Oh, necessarily; Beaufort is a vulgar man," said Mrs. Archer.  "My grandfather Newland always
used to say to my mother:  'Whatever you do, don't let that fellow Beaufort be introduced to
the girls.'  But at least he's had the advantage of associating with gentlemen; in England
too, they say.  It's all very mysterious--" She glanced at Janey and paused.  She and Janey
knew every fold of the Beaufort mystery, but in public Mrs. Archer continued to assume that
the subject was not one for the unmarried.

"But this Mrs. Struthers," Mrs. Archer continued; "what did you say SHE was, Sillerton?"

"Out of a mine: or rather out of the saloon at the head of the pit. Then with Living Wax-Works,
touring New England.  After the police broke THAT up, they say she lived--"  Mr. Jackson in
his turn glanced at Janey, whose eyes began to bulge from under her prominent lids. There were
still hiatuses for her in Mrs. Struthers's past.

"Then," Mr. Jackson continued (and Archer saw he was wondering why no one had told the butler
never to slice cucumbers with a steel knife), "then Lemuel Struthers came along.  They say
his advertiser used the girl's head for the shoe-polish posters; her hair's intensely black,
you know--the Egyptian style.  Anyhow, he--eventually--married her." There were volumes of
innuendo in the way the "eventually" was spaced, and each syllable given its due stress.

"Oh, well--at the pass we've come to nowadays, it doesn't matter," said Mrs. Archer indifferently.
The ladies were not really interested in Mrs. Struthers just then; the subject of Ellen Olenska
was too fresh and too absorbing to them.  Indeed, Mrs. Struthers's name had been introduced
by Mrs. Archer only that she might presently be able to say: "And Newland's new cousin--Countess
Olenska?  Was SHE at the ball too?"

There was a faint touch of sarcasm in the reference to her son, and Archer knew it and had
expected it.  Even Mrs. Archer, who was seldom unduly pleased with human events, had been altogether
glad of her son's engagement. ("Especially after that silly business with Mrs. Rushworth,"
as she had remarked to Janey, alluding to what had once seemed to Newland a tragedy of which
his soul would always bear the scar.)

There was no better match in New York than May Welland, look at the question from whatever
point you chose.  Of course such a marriage was only what Newland was entitled to; but young
men are so foolish and incalculable--and some women so ensnaring and unscrupulous--that it
was nothing short of a miracle to see one's only son safe past the Siren Isle and in the haven
of a blameless domesticity.

All this Mrs. Archer felt, and her son knew she felt; but he knew also that she had been perturbed
by the premature announcement of his engagement, or rather by its cause; and it was for that
reason--because on the whole he was a tender and indulgent master--that he had stayed at home
that evening.  "It's not that I don't approve of the Mingotts' esprit de corps; but why Newland's
engagement should be mixed up with that Olenska woman's comings and goings I don't see," Mrs.
Archer grumbled to Janey, the only witness of her slight lapses from perfect sweetness.

She had behaved beautifully--and in beautiful behaviour she was unsurpassed--during the call
on Mrs. Welland; but Newland knew (and his betrothed doubtless guessed) that all through the
visit she and Janey were nervously on the watch for Madame Olenska's possible intrusion; and
when they left the house together she had permitted herself to say to her son:  "I'm thankful
that Augusta Welland received us alone."

These indications of inward disturbance moved Archer the more that he too felt that the Mingotts
had gone a little too far.  But, as it was against all the rules of their code that the mother
and son should ever allude to what was uppermost in their thoughts, he simply replied: "Oh,
well, there's always a phase of family parties to be gone through when one gets engaged, and
the sooner it's over the better."  At which his mother merely pursed her lips under the lace
veil that hung down from her grey velvet bonnet trimmed with frosted grapes.

Her revenge, he felt--her lawful revenge--would be to "draw" Mr. Jackson that evening on the
Countess Olenska; and, having publicly done his duty as a future member of the Mingott clan,
the young man had no objection to hearing the lady discussed in private--except that the subject
was already beginning to bore him.

Mr. Jackson had helped himself to a slice of the tepid filet which the mournful butler had
handed him with a look as sceptical as his own, and had rejected the mushroom sauce after a
scarcely perceptible sniff.  He looked baffled and hungry, and Archer reflected that he would
probably finish his meal on Ellen Olenska.

Mr. Jackson leaned back in his chair, and glanced up at the candlelit Archers, Newlands and
van der Luydens hanging in dark frames on the dark walls.

"Ah, how your grandfather Archer loved a good dinner, my dear Newland!" he said, his eyes on
the portrait of a plump full-chested young man in a stock and a blue coat, with a view of a
white-columned country-house behind him.  "Well--well--well ... I wonder what he would have
said to all these foreign marriages!"

Mrs. Archer ignored the allusion to the ancestral cuisine and Mr. Jackson continued with deliberation:
"No, she was NOT at the ball."

"Ah--" Mrs. Archer murmured, in a tone that implied:  "She had that decency."

"Perhaps the Beauforts don't know her," Janey suggested, with her artless malice.

Mr. Jackson gave a faint sip, as if he had been tasting invisible Madeira.  "Mrs. Beaufort
may not--but Beaufort certainly does, for she was seen walking up Fifth Avenue this afternoon
with him by the whole of New York."

"Mercy--" moaned Mrs. Archer, evidently perceiving the uselessness of trying to ascribe the
actions of foreigners to a sense of delicacy.

"I wonder if she wears a round hat or a bonnet in the afternoon," Janey speculated.  "At the
Opera I know she had on dark blue velvet, perfectly plain and flat--like a night-gown."

"Janey!" said her mother; and Miss Archer blushed and tried to look audacious.

"It was, at any rate, in better taste not to go to the ball," Mrs. Archer continued.

A spirit of perversity moved her son to rejoin:  "I don't think it was a question of taste
with her.  May said she meant to go, and then decided that the dress in question wasn't smart
enough."

Mrs. Archer smiled at this confirmation of her inference.  "Poor Ellen," she simply remarked;
adding compassionately:  "We must always bear in mind what an eccentric bringing-up Medora
Manson gave her. What can you expect of a girl who was allowed to wear black satin at her coming-out
ball?"

"Ah--don't I remember her in it!" said Mr. Jackson; adding:  "Poor girl!" in the tone of one
who, while enjoying the memory, had fully understood at the time what the sight portended.

"It's odd," Janey remarked, "that she should have kept such an ugly name as Ellen.  I should
have changed it to Elaine."  She glanced about the table to see the effect of this.

Her brother laughed.  "Why Elaine?"

"I don't know; it sounds more--more Polish," said Janey, blushing.

"It sounds more conspicuous; and that can hardly be what she wishes," said Mrs. Archer distantly.

"Why not?" broke in her son, growing suddenly argumentative.  "Why shouldn't she be conspicuous
if she chooses?  Why should she slink about as if it were she who had disgraced herself?  She's
'poor Ellen' certainly, because she had the bad luck to make a wretched marriage; but I don't
see that that's a reason for hiding her head as if she were the culprit."

"That, I suppose," said Mr. Jackson, speculatively, "is the line the Mingotts mean to take."

The young man reddened.  "I didn't have to wait for their cue, if that's what you mean, sir.
Madame Olenska has had an unhappy life: that doesn't make her an outcast."

"There are rumours," began Mr. Jackson, glancing at Janey.

