Fling personal ambition and individual aggrandizement to the winds. Let political preferment
and partisan proclivities bide their time, and as a united and one-minded people, devote heart
and mind, strength and money, to the prosecution of the campaign, without considering what
may be its duration, and without fear of circumstance or expenditure. If it be necessary, let
the public debt be increased until it reaches and exceeds the public liabilities of the most
indebted Government of Europe. We and our descendants will cheerfully pay the interest on that
expenditure which purchased so great a blessing as national endurability. Meanwhile, with unity,
forbearance, perseverance, and the silent administration of the ballot box, we will, as a people,
maintain, notwithstanding that a portion of the land we hold dear stands severed from us by
hatred and prejudice, the prosperity which we still claim, and the renown which was once accorded
to us. By so doing, and by so doing only, shall our former grandeur come back to us--though
its garments be stained with blood. A grandeur which, without hyperbole, it may be said, will
outstrip the glory which, as a young and sanguine people, we have ever claimed for our country.
The reason for so believing is the simple and undeniable fact that out of the saddening humiliation
and devastation of this civil war has arisen the better knowledge of the wonderful resources,
abilities, and determined spirit of the American people. We see--both combatants--that we are
giants fighting, and not quarrelling pigmies, as the foreign enemies of us both have vainly
attempted to prove. We see, both combatants, how vast and important to each is the territory
we are struggling for, how inseparable to our united interests are the sources of wealth imbedded
in our rocks, underlying our soil, and growing in its beneficent bosom. We see, both combatants,
how strong is the commerce of the East to supply, like a diligent handmaiden, the wants of
every section; how bountiful are the plantations of the South and the granaries of the West
to keep the world united to us in the strong bonds of commercial and friendly intercourse;
how absolutely necessary to the prosperity of both are the deep and wide-flowing rivers which
run, like silver bands of peace, through the length and breadth of a land whose vast privileges
we have been too blind to appreciate, and in that blindness would destroy. Above all, we are
beginning to see that like two mighty champions fighting for the belt of superiority, we can
neither of us achieve that individual advantage which can utterly and forever place the other
beyond the ability of again accepting the gauntlet of defiance, and that our true and lasting
glory can alone proceed from a determination to shake hands in peace, and, as united champions,
defying no longer each other, defy the world. Nor would the South in consenting to a reunion
now find humiliation or dishonor. She has proved herself a noble foe--quick in expedient, firm
in determination, valorous in war. We know each other the better for the contest; we shall,
when peace returns, respect each other the more; and although the cost of that peace, whenever
it comes, will be the sacrifice of many local prejudices and sectional privileges, what, oh,
what are such sacrifices to the inestimable blessings of national salvation?

THE COMPLAINING BORE.

About the most disagreeable people one meets with in life are those who make a business of
complaining. They ask for sympathy when they merit censure. There is no excuse for man or woman
making known their private griefs except to intimate friends or those who stand in the nearest
relation to them. I have no patience with the man who wishes to catch the public ear with the
sound of his repining. Be it that he complain of the world generally, or specify the particular
occasion of his dumpishness, he is in either aspect equally contemptible. What a serio-comic
spectacle a man presents who imagines that everybody is in a leagued conspiracy against him
to disappoint his hopes and thwart his plans for success! He thinks he is kept from rising
by some untoward fate that is bent on crushing him into the ground, feels that he is the victim
of persecution, the sport of angry gods. Not having the spirit of a martyr, he frets and fumes
about his condition, and finds a selfish relief in counting over his grievances in the presence
of all who are good-natured enough to listen. Such a fellow is a social nuisance--away with
him! The fact usually is that the world has more reason to complain of him than he of the world.
For instance, I know a man who has become misanthropic, but who should hate himself instead
of the whole race.

Mr. Jordan Algrieve has become disgusted with life, and confesses than his experiment with
existence has thus far proved a failure. He has combated with the world, and the world has
proved too much for him, and he acknowledges the defeat. Mr. Algrieve is on the shady side
of fifty, and his hair getting to be of an iron gray. His features are prominent, with a face
wrinkled and shrivelled by discontent and acidity of temper. His tall figure is bent, not so
much by cares and weight of years, as in a kind of typical submission to the stern decree of
an evil destiny.

Strange to say, he is well educated, and graduated with honor at one of our Eastern colleges.
With a knowledge of this fact, it is pitiable to see him standing at the corner of the street
in his busy town in a suit of seedy black and a shockingly bad hat, chafing his hands together
and pretending to wait for somebody who never comes.

Poor Algrieve, he is a man under the table, and he knows it. He has tried to be somebody in
his way, but has failed sadly in all his efforts. It is said that Algrieve always had a constitutional
aversion to legitimate and continued labor, but has a passion for making strikes and securing
positions that afford liberal pay for little work.

Thinking a profession too monotonous and plodding, he never took the trouble to acquire one.
As to honest manual toil, that was an expedient he never so much as dreamed of. In early life
he was so unfortunate as to secure an appointment to a clerkship in the Assembly, and after
that he haunted the State Legislature for five or six winters in hot pursuit of another place,
but his claims failing to be recognized, he relapsed into the natural belief that his party
was in league to proscribe him. After making a large number of political ventures of a more
ambitious order, and with the same mortifying results, he abandoned that field and took to
speculation in patent rights. He vended a wonderful churn-dash, circulated a marvellous flatiron,
and expatiated through the country on the latest improvement in the line of a washing machine.
But these operations somehow afforded him but transient relief, and left him always involved
still more largely in debt. At different times in his life he had also been a horse dealer,
a dry-goods merchant, a saloon keeper, the proprietor of a tenpin alley, and managed to grow
poorer in all these various occupations. The last I saw of him he was reduced to peddling books
in a small way, carrying his whole stock in a new market basket. He was very importunate in
his appeals to customers to purchase, putting it upon the ground that he had been unfortunate
and had a claim to their charity. I happened to see him in the office of the popular hotel
in Podgeville, when he was more than usually clamorous for patronage. He accosted nearly every
man in the room with a dull, uninteresting volume in his hand, and for which he asked a respectable
price. At last he set down his basket, and commenced a kind of snivelling harangue to his little
audience. Mr. Algrieve opened by saying:

     'Gentlemen, you'll pardon me for thrusting myself upon your
     attention; but it is hard to have the world turned against ye, and
     to work like a slave all your life to get something to fall back on
     in old age, and then have to die poor at last! I hope none of you
     have ever known what it is to be born unlucky; to never undertake
     anything but turned out a failure, and to meet disappointment where
     you deserved success. I am such a man!'

Here Mr. Algrieve produced a fragmentary pocket handkerchief for the ostensible purpose of
absorbing an expected tear, but really to give his remark a tragic effect. He continued:

     'Behold an individual who has been doomed to penury and
     destitution, but who has not met his fate without a struggle. You
     who have known me, gentlemen, for the last thirty years, know that
     Jordan Algrieve has battled with life manfully.' At this point he
     put out his clenched fist in defiance of his fancied enemy.' But I
     have been compelled to yield to the force of circumstances--not,
     however, till I had taken my chance in nearly every department of
     honorary endeavor, and experienced the most wretched success. The
     world has pronounced its ban upon me, and I must bow submissively
     to its cruel imposition. I tried to serve my country in the
     capacity of a public official, but my services and talents were
     repeatedly rejected--the majority of voters always so necessary to
     an honest election was forever on the side of my lucky opponent.
     When I withdrew from the political field, impoverished by my
     efforts to advance the prosperity of my party, I embarked in a
     small commercial enterprise; but owing to the tightness of the
     times, and my want of capital, I was soon obliged to give up and
     throw myself upon the mercy of my creditors. I have tried popular
     amusements, and lost money--that is, I failed to make it. I even
     branched out into fancy speculations, but they only served to sink
     me still deeper in the yawning depths of insolvency!'

Mr. Algrieve here paused, and seemed to look down into the frightful gulf with a shuddering
expression, as if he were not quite accustomed to the descent yet.

     'In short, gentlemen, I am completely prostrated--I am floored! And
     is the world willing to help me up? By no means! On the contrary,
     when I commenced falling and slipping on the stairs of human
     endeavor the world was ready to kick me down, down, till I reached
     the--in short, gentlemen, till I became what I now am. Now, what
     have I done, let me ask, that I should fare thus? Have I not made
     an effort? I appeal to you, gentlemen, to say. [A voice from the
     crowd here chimed in: 'Yes, Algrieve, your efforts to live without
     work have been immense!'] But here I am, poor and persecuted; my
     family are in want of some of the common necessaries of life; and
     now, gentlemen, I beg some of you will buy that book (holding out a
     copy of the 'Pilgrim's Progress'), and do something to avert for a
     while, at least, the pauper's fate!'

Some benevolent gentleman, either from a charitable motive, or to put an end to his lachrymose
oration, bought the volume for $1.25. Mr. Algrieve received the money with many expressions
of gratitude, and, gathering up his stock, moped off into the drinking room, and invested a
dime in a gin cocktail, and five cents in a cigar, with which he sought to solace himself for
all the inflictions of the inexorable world.

Thus Jordan Algrieve goes about telling of his reverses and misfortunes, exhibiting them to
the public eye like a beggar his sores, without shame or remorse; seeking to levy contributions
on his fellow men, as one who has been robbed of his estate. Reader, will you say that you
have never met with Jordan Algrieve?

Another common species of the complaining bore are those who are continually parading their
bodily infirmities. For example, a man will call on you, apparently for the express purpose
of illustrating a most interesting case of neuralgia. He comes into your office, perhaps, with
his head tied up in a handkerchief, and an expression of face as if he had some time winked
one eye very close, and had never since been able to open it. Thinking himself an object worthy
of study, he shows how the darting pains vacillate between his eyes, invade his teeth, hold
general muster in his cheeks, take refuge in the back of his neck; and demonstrates these points
to you by applying his hands to the parts designated, and uttering cries of feigned anguish
to give effect to his description. He informs you, as a piece of refreshing intelligence, that
it is devilish hard to bear, and enough to make a saint indulge in profanity. When he has proceeded
thus far, he may be taken with one of his capricious pains, ducks his head between his knees,
squeezes it with his hands, and bawls out: 'O-h! Je-ru-sa-lem!' with a duration of sound only
limited by the capacity of his wind. He feels that he has a witness to his sufferings, and
wishes to make the most of it. When he gets sufficiently easy, he tells you his experience
with various remedies, enumerates all the lotions, liniments, ointments, and other applications
he has used, with his opinion on the merits of each.

Another person will accost you on a bright day with a most saturnine and wo-begone visage,
informing you that he is in a terrible way, that his food distresses him, and he can't any
longer take comfort in eating. He places his hand in the region of his stomach, remarks that
he feels a great load there, and makes the usual complaints of a dyspeptic. He is pathetic
over the fact that his physician has denied him fried oysters and mince pie for evening lunch,
and closes his observations by exclaiming in a moralizing vein that 'such is life!'

A third individual has a throat disease, and, forgetful of his bad breath, desires you to take
a minute survey of his glottis, and inform him of its appearance. Accordingly he opens his
mouth and throws back his head as if he were inviting you to an entertaining show.

These are but a tithe of the examples of people who exhibit in public and at social gatherings
their ills and ailments, accompanied with dreary complainings of their bodily inflictions.
It implies no indifference or lack of sympathy for physical pain and hardships to say that
its victims have no right to mar the enjoyment of others by the unnecessary display of their
infirmities or present sufferings. If a man will make a travelling show of his disorders, he
should be obliged to carry a hand organ to give variety to his stupid entertainment. Were these
fellows all compelled to furnish this accompaniment, what a musical bedlam our streets would
become! Of course, there is no law against complaining and repining--it may not be immoral--but
it is a very poor method of making those around us happy, which is a duty that none but selfish
natures can forget. A man who goes through life with a smiling face and cheerful temper, despite
the grievances common to us all, is a public benefactor in his way, as much as one who founds
a library or establishes an asylum.

Misanthropy is a sublime egotism that mistakes its own distemper for a disease of the universe.
With all the mishaps to which our life is subject, a glance over a wide range of human experience
proves that God helps those who help themselves, and whatever be the tenor of our fortune,
levity is more seemly than moodiness, and under any circumstances there is more virtue in being
a clown than a cynic. But in adversity, a subdued cheerfulness and quiet humor are, next to
Christian fortitude, the golden mean of feeling that makes the loss of worldly things rest
lightly on the heart, and spreads out before the hopeful eye the vision of better days!

DEATH OF THE BRAVE. New York: C.
     T. EVANS. 1863.

Probably no writer of stories for the young ever equalled Hans Christian Andersen; certainly
none ever succeeded as he has done in reproducing the nameless charm of the real fairy tale
which springs up without an author among the people,--the best specimens of which are the stories
collected by the Brothers Grimm in Germany. But this exquisite fascination of an inner life
in animals and in inanimate objects, which every child's mind produces from dolls and other
puppets, and which makes fairies of flowers, is by Andersen adroitly turned very often to good
moral and instructive purpose, without losing the original sweet and simple charm which blends
the real and the imaginary. Here he surpasses all other tale writers, nearly all of whom, in
their efforts at simplicity in such narratives, generally become supremely silly.

The present volume contains four stories--'The Ice Maiden,' 'The Butterfly,' 'The Psyche,'
and 'The Snail and the Rose Tree,'--all in Andersen's usual happy and successful vein; for
he is preëminently an equal writer, and never falls behind himself. Perhaps the highest compliment
which can be paid them is the truthful assertion that any person may read them with keen interest,
and never reflect that they were written for young people. Poetry and prose meet in them on
equal grounds, and any of them in verse would be charming. The main reason for this is that
such stories to charm must set forth natural objects with Irving-like fidelity; nay, the writer
must, with a few words, bring before us scenes and things as in a mirror. In this 'The Ice
Maiden' excels; Swiss life is depicted as though we were listening to yodle songs on the mountains,
and felt the superstitions of the icy winter nights taking hold of our souls.

'The Psyche' is an art-story. Most writers would have made it a legend of 'high' art, but it
is far sweeter and more impressive from the sad simplicity and gentleness with which it is
here told. 'The Butterfly,' on the contrary, is a delightful little burlesque on flirtations
and fops; and 'The Snail and the Rose Tree' is much like it. Both are really fables of the
highest order, or shrewd prose epigrams.

The volume before us is well translated; very well, notwithstanding one or two trifling inadvertencies,
which, however, really testify to the fact that the best of all pens for such version--a lady's--was
employed in the work. A Skytte, for instance, in Danish, or Schutz in German, is generally
termed among the fraternity of sportsmen a 'shot,' and not a 'shooter.' But the spirit of the
original is charmingly preserved, and Miss Fuller has the rare gift of using short and simple
words, which are the best in the world when one knows how to use them as she does. We trust
that we shall see many more stories of this kind, translated by her.

We must, in conclusion, say a word for the dainty binding (Pawson &
Nicholson), the exquisite paper and typography, and, finally, for the
pretty photograph vignette with which this volume is adorned. Mr.
Leypoldt has benefited Philadelphia in many ways,--by his foreign and
American circulating library, his lecture room, and by his republication
in photograph of first-class engravings,--and we now welcome him to the
society of publishers. His first step in this direction is a most
promising one.
     1863.

This work will be one of great interest, firstly to all those who visit the theatre, secondly
to readers of Shakspeare, and thirdly to all who relish originality and naïvete of character,
such as Mr. Hackett displays abundantly, from the rising of the curtain even to the going down
of the same, in his book. There are no men who live so much within their profession as actors,
or are so earnest in their faith in it; and this devotion is reflected unconsciously, but very
entertainingly, through the whole volume. Shakspeare tells us that all the world is a stage--to
the actor the stage is all his world, the only one in which he truly lives.

We thank Mr. Hackett for giving us in this volume, firstly, very minute and excellent descriptions
of all the eminent actors of Shakespeare within his memory--not a brief one, he having been
himself a really excellent and eminent actor since 1828. It is to be regretted that there are
not more such judicious descriptions as these. The author has, as we gather from his book,
been in the habit of recording his daily experiences, and consequently writes from better data
than those afforded by mere memory. The reader will also thank him for many agreeable minor
reminiscences of celebrities, and for giving to the public his extremely interesting correspondence
on Shaksperean subjects with John Quincy Adams and others. The views of the venerable statesman
on Hamlet, and on 'Misconceptions of Shakspeare on the Stage,' indicate a very great degree
of study of the great poet, and of reflection on the manner in which he is over or under acted.
Nor are Mr. Hackett's own letters and criticisms by any means devoid of merit--witness the
following:

     'Mr. Forrest recites the text (of King Lear) as though it were all
     prose, and not occasionally written in poetic measure; whereas,
     blank verse can, and always should, be distinguishable from prose
     by proper modulations of the voice, which a listener with a nice
     ear and a cultivated taste could not mistake, nor, if confounded,
     detect in their respective recitals: else Milton as well as
     Shakspeare has toiled to little purpose in the best-proportioned
     numbers.'

The criticism on Forrest is throughout judicious, and, though frequently severe, is still very
kindly written when we consider the 'capacities' of the subject.

As regards Mr. Hackett's views of readings, we detect in them a little of that tendency to
excessive accentuation, and that disposition to 'make a hit' or a sensation in every sentence
which renders most, or all, Shaksperean or tragic acting so harsh and strained, and which has
made the word 'theatrical' in ordinary conversation synonymous with 'unnatural.' Something
of this is reflected in the enormous amount of needless italicizing with which the typography
of the book is afflicted, and which we trust will be amended in future editions. We cheerfully
pardon Mr. Hackett for sounding his own praises--sometimes rather loudly and frequently, as
in the republication of a sketch of himself--since, after all, we thereby gain a more accurate
idea of a favorite actor, who has for thirty-six years pleased the public, and gained in that
long time the character of a conscientious artist who has always striven to improve himself.

To one thing, however, we decidedly object--the questionable taste displayed by the author
in answering in type criticisms of his acting, and in republishing them in his work. We can
well imagine the temptation to be great, but to yield to it is not creditable to a good artist.
With this little exception, we cordially commend the work to all readers.

     DEVOTIONAL POEMS. By R. T. CONRAD. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott &
     Co. 1862.

The late Judge Conrad left a number of religious poems, which fortunately fell into the hands
of those who appreciated their merit, and we now have them in volume, with an introductory
poem to the widow of the deceased and a preface by George H. Boker, to whom the editing of
the present volume was committed. These lyrics, as we infer, were written in the spirit of
private devotion, and are therefore gifted with the greatest merit which can possibly inspire
religious writing--we mean deep sincerity. But apart from the spirit,--the sine qua non,--the
beauty of the form of these works will always give them a high value to the impartial critic.
They are far above the mediocrity into which most religious writers always at first appear
to be lost, owing to the vast amount of thoughts and expressions which they are compelled to
share in common with others. And as there has been awakened within a few years a spirit of
collecting and studying such poetry, we cordially commend this work to all who share it.

As regards form, one of the more marked poems in this collection is 'The Stricken;' we have
room only for the beginning:

    Heavy! Heavy! Oh, my heart
      Seems a cavern deep and drear,
    From whose dark recesses start,
        Flatteringly like birds of night,
      Throes of passion, thoughts of fear,
        Screaming in their flight.
      Wildly o'er the gloom they sweep,
  Spreading a horror dim,--a woe that cannot weep!

    Weary! Weary! What is life
      But a spectre-crowded tomb?
    Startled with unearthly strife,
      Spirits fierce in conflict met,
    In the lightning and the gloom,
      The agony and sweat;
    Passions wild and powers insane,
  And thoughts with vulture beak, and quick Promethean pain.

We select this single specimen from its remarkable resemblance to Anglo-Saxon religious poetry,--by
far the sincerest, and, so far as it was ripened, the soundest, in our language. With the exception
of the Promethean allusion, every line in these verses is singularly Saxon--the night birds,
screaming in gloom--as in the 'Sea Farer,' where, instead of joyous mirth,

  'Storms beat the stone cliffs,
  Where them the starling answered,
  Icy of wing.'

The divisions of this work are 'Sinai,' which is in great measure a commentary on virtues and
vices, 'Sonnets on the Lord's Prayer,' and 'Bible Breathings.' Of these we would commend the
Sonnets, as forming collectively a highly finished and beautiful poem, complete in each detail.
The little poem, 'A Thought,' is as perfect as a mere simile in verse could be.

Robert T. Conrad, who was born in Philadelphia in 1810, and died there in 1858, first became
known to the public by a drama entitled Conrad of Naples, a subject which has been extensively
treated by German writers, Uhland himself having written a tragedy on it. After being admitted
to the bar, Conrad connected himself with the press, but resumed the practice of law in 1834
with success, being appointed judge of the criminal sessions in 1838, and of the general sessions
in 1840. He was subsequently president of a well-known railroad company, and mayor of his native
city. During the intervals of his business he was at one time editor of Graham's Magazine,
and acquired a literary reputation by his articles in the North American, and by the well-known
tragedy of Aylmere, in which Mr. Forrest, the actor, has frequently appeared as 'Jack Cade.'
In addition to these, Mr. Conrad published, in 1852, a volume entitled 'Aylmere and other poems,'
which was very extensively reviewed. In it the 'Sonnets on the Lord's Prayer' first appeared.
New York: Charles T. Evans, 448 Broadway. 1863.

Were this little work ten times its present length, we should have read it to the end with
the same interest which its perusal inspired, and arrived, with the same regret that there
was not more of it, at its last page. It is simple and unpretending, but as life-like and spirited
as any collection of descriptive sketches which we can recall. We realize in it all the vexations
of mud, all the horrors of blood, and all the joys of occasional chickens and a good night's
rest, which render the soldier's life at once so great and yet so much a matter of petty joys
and sorrows. The love of the rider for the good horse--for his pet Gypsy--her caprices and
coquetries, are set forth, for instance, very freely, without, however, a shadow of affectation,
while in all his interviews with men and women, the characters come before us 'like life,'
and give us a singularly accurate conception of the social effects of the war in the West.
The appearance of the country is unconsciously detailed as accurately as in a photograph, and
the events and sensations of battle are presented with great ability; in fact, we have as yet
seen no sketches from the war which in these particulars are equal to them. They are free from
'fine writing,' and are given in simple, intelligible language which cannot fail to make them
generally popular. The occasional flashes of humorous description are extremely well given--so
well that we only wish there had been more of them, as the author has evidently a talent in
that direction, which we trust will be more fully developed in other works.

EDITOR'S TABLE

With all the outcry that has been raised at the slow progress of the war, it is difficult for
a comprehensive mind to conceive how, on the whole, the struggle with the South could have
advanced more favorably to the general interests and future prosperity of the whole country,
than it has thus far done. 'Had the Administration been possessed of sufficient energy, it
could have crushed the rebellion in the first month,' say the grumblers. Very possibly--to
break out again! No amount of prompt action could have calmed the first fire and fury of the
South. It required blood; it was starving for war; it was running over with hatred for the North.

The war went on, and, as it progressed, it became evident that, while thousands deprecated
agitation of the slave question as untimely, the war could never end until that question was
disposed of. And it also became every day more plain that the 'little arrangement' so frequently
insisted on, and expressed in the words, 'Conquer the enemy first, and then free the slaves,'
was a little absurdity. It was 'all very pretty,' but with the whole North and South at swords-points
over this as the alleged cause of war--with all Europe declaring that the North had no intention
of removing the cause of the war--with the slave constantly interfering in all our military
movements--and, finally, with a party of domestic traitors springing up everywhere, at home
and in the army itself, it became high time to adopt a fixed policy. It was adopted, and President
LINCOLN, to his lasting honor, and despite tremendous opposition, issued the Proclamation of
January First--the noblest document in history.

It is difficult to see how, when, or in what manner slavery would have disappeared from a single
State, had the war been sooner ended; and nothing is more certain than that any early victory
or temporary compromise would have simply postponed the struggle, to be settled with compound
interest. But another benefit has resulted and is resulting from the experience of the past
two years. Our own Free States have abounded with men who are at heart traitors; men who have,
by their ignorance of the great principles of national welfare involved in this war, acted
as a continual drawback on our progress. This body of men, incapable of comprehending the great
principles of republicanism as laid down in the Constitution, and as urged by Washington, would
be after all only partially vanquished should we subdue the rebels. They are around us here
in our own homes; their treason rings from the halls of national legislation; they are busy
night and day in their 'copperhead' councils in giving aid and comfort to the enemy, and in
poisoning the minds of the ignorant, by hissing slanders at the President and his advisers
as being devoid of energy and ability.

It would avail us little could we conclude a peace to-morrow, if these aiders and abetters
of treason--these foes of all enlightened measures--these worse than open rebels--were to remain
among us to destroy by their selfishness and malignity those great measures by which this country
is destined to become great. The war is doing us the glorious service of bringing the 'copperheads'
before the people in their true light--the light of foes to equality, to the rights of the
many, and as perverse friends of all that is anti-American. Who and what, indeed, are their
leaders! Review them all, from FERNANDO WOOD down to the wretched SAULSBURY, including W. B.
REED, in whose veins hereditary traitorous blood seems, with every descent, to have acquired
a fresh taint--consider the character which has for years attached to most of them--and then
reflect on what a party must be with such leaders!

These men have no desire to be brought distinctly before the public; they would by far prefer
to burrow in silence. But the war and emancipation have proved an Ithuriel's spear to touch
the toad and make him spring up in his full and naturally fiendish form. The sooner and the
more distinctly he is seen, the better will it be for the country. We must dispose of rebels
abroad and copperheads at home ere we can have peace, and the sooner the country knows its
foes, the better will it be for it. We have come at last to either carrying out the great centralizing
system of an Union, superior to all States Rights, as commended by Washington, or to division
into a thousand petty principalities, each ruled by its WOOD, or other demagogue, who can succeed
in securing a majority-mob of adherents!

It is with such men and their measures that Gen. GEORGE B. MCCLELLAN, the frequently proposed
candidate for the next presidency, is becoming firmly connected in the minds of the people!
Fortunately the war has developed the objects of the traitors, and the Union Leagues which
are springing up by hundreds over the country are doing good service in making them thoroughly
known. Until treason is fairly rooted out at home and abroad, and until Union at the centre
for the people everywhere is fully enforced, this war can only be concluded now, to be renewed
in tenfold horror to-morrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a complication of interests at present springing up in Europe, which is difficult
to fathom. Just now it seems as if the Polish insurrection were being fomented by Austria,
at French instigation, in order that the hands of Russia may be tied, so that in case of war
with America, we may be deprived of the aid of our great European friend. England sees it in
this light, and angrily protests against Prussian interference in the matter. Should a general
war result, who would gain by it? Would France avail herself of the opportunity to array her
forces against Prussia, and seize the Rhine, and perhaps Belgium? Or would the Emperor avail
himself of circumstances to embroil England in a war, and then withdraw to a position of profitable
neutrality? Let it be borne in mind, meantime, that it required all the strength of France,
England, and Austria, combined, to beat Russia in the Crimea, and that a short prolongation
of the war would have witnessed the arrival of vast bodies of Russian troops--many of whom
had been nearly a year on the march. Those troops are now far more accessible in case of war.

A war between England and the United States, however it might injure us, would be utter ruin
to our adversary. With our commerce destroyed, we should still have a vast territory left;
but nine tenths of England's prosperity lies within her wooden walls, which would be swept
from the ocean. With her exportation destroyed, England would be ruined. We should suffer,
unquestionably, but we could hold our own, and would undoubtedly progress as regards manufacturing.
But what would become of the British workshops, and how would the British people endure such
suffering as never yet befell them? Even with our Southern Rebellion on our hands, and English
men-of-war on our coast, we could still, with our merchant marine, bring John Bull to his face.
And John Bull knows it.

England is now building, in the cause of slavery and for the South, a great fleet of iron-clad
pirate vessels, which are intended to prey on our commerce. How long will it be before retaliation
on England begins, and, when it begins, how will it end? Ay--how will it end? It is not to
be supposed that we can long be blinded by such a flimsy humbug as a transfer to Southern possession
of these vessels 'for the Chinese trade!' Are the English mad, demented, or besotted, that
they suppose we intend to endure such deliberate aid of our enemies? When those vessels 'for
the Chinese' are afloat, and our merchants begin to suffer, let England beware! We are not
a people to stop and reason nicely on legal points, when they are enforced in the form of fire
and death. Better for England that she weighed the iron of that fleet pound for pound with
gold, and cast it into the sea, than that she suffered it to be launched. Qui facit per alium,
facit per se. England is the real criminal in this business, for her Government could have
prevented it; and to her we shall look for the responsibility. All through America a spirit
of fierce indignation has been awakened at hearing of this 'Chinese' fleet, which will burst
out ere long in a storm. We are very far from being afraid of war--we are in it; we know what
it is like--and those who openly, brazenly, infamously, aid our enemies and make war for them,
shall also learn, let it cost what it may.

England hopes to cover the world's oceans with pirates, with murder, rapine, and robbery--to
exaggerate still more the horrors of war--and yet deems that her commerce will escape! This
is a different matter from the affair of the Trent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Don't grumble! Don't be incessantly croaking from morning to night at the war and the administration
and the generals, and everything else! Things have gone better on the whole than you imagine,
and your endless growling is just what the traitors like. Were there no croakers there would
be no traitors.

It was growling and croaking which caused the reverses of the army of the Potomac--sheer grumbling.
Now the truth is coming out, and we are beginning to see the disadvantages of eternal fault-finding.
The truth is that the war in the Crimea was much worse conducted than this of ours has been--even
as regards swindling by contracts--and it was so with every other war. We have no monopoly
of faults.

Now that the war is being reorganized, we would modestly suggest that a little severity--say
an occasional halter--would not be out of place as regards deserters. There has been altogether
too much of this amusement in vogue, which a few capital punishments in the beginning would
have entirely obviated. Pennsylvania, we are told, is full of hulking runaway young farmers,
and our cities abound in ex-rowdies, who, after securing their bounties, have deserted, and
who are now aiding treason, and spreading 'verdigrease' in every direction by their falsehoods.
Let every exertion be made to arrest and return these scamps--cost what it may; and let their
punishment be exemplary. And let there be a new policy inaugurated with the new levy, which
shall effectually prevent all further escaping.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reader--wherever you are, either join a Union League, or get one up. If there be none in your
town, gather a few friends together--and mind that they be good, loyal Unionists, without a
suspicion of verdigrease or copperhead poison about them--and at once put yourselves in connection
with the central Leagues of the great cities. Those of Philadelphia, New York and Boston are
all conducted by honorable men of the highest character--and we may remark, by the way, that
in this respect the contrast between the leaders of the League and of the Verdigrease Clubs
is indeed remarkable. When you have formed your League, see that addresses are delivered there
frequently, that patriotic documents and newspapers are collected there, and finally that it
does good service in every way in forwarding the war, and in promoting the determination to
preserve the Union.

The copperheads aim not only at letting the South go--they hope to break the North to fragments,
and trust that in the general crash each of them may secure his share. When the war first broke
out, FERNANDO WOOD publicly recommended the secession of New York as a free city--and a very
free city it would have been under the rule of Fernando the First! And this object of 'dissolution
and of division' is still cherished in secret among the true leaders of the traitors.

The time has come when every true American should go to work in earnest to strengthen the Union
and destroy treason, whether in the field or at home. A foe to liberty and to human rights
is a foe, whether he be a fellow countryman or not, and against such foes it is the duty of
every good citizen to declare himself openly.

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be seen by the annexed that our Art correspondent, a gentleman of wide experiences,
has gone into the battle. We trust that his experiences will amuse the reader. As for the facts--never
mind!

                                                    CAMP O'BELLOW,
                                            Army of the Potomac.

MY PATRIOTIC FRIEND AND EDITOR:

I have changed my base.

When I last wrote you, it was from the field of art--this time it is from the floor of my tent--at
least it will be, as soon as my fellows pitch it. N. B.--For special information I would add
that this is not done, as I have seen a Kalmouk do it, with a bucket of pitch and a rag on
a stick. One way, however, of pitching tents is to pitch 'em down when the enemy is coming,
and run like the juice. Ha, ha!

But I must not laugh too loudly, as yon small soldier may hear me. Little pitchers have long ears.

Now for my sufferings.

The first is my stove.

My stove is made of a camp kettle.

It has such a vile draught that I think of giving it a lesson in drawing. Joke. Perhaps you
remember it of old in the jolly old Studio Building in Tenth Street. By the way how is WHITTREDGE?--I
believe he imported that joke from Rome where he learned it of JULES DE MONTALANT who acquired
it of CHAPMAN who got it from GIBSON, who learned it of THORWALDSEN who picked it up from DAVID
who stole it from the elder VERNET to whom it had come down from MICHAEL ANGELO who cribbed
it from ALBERT DÜRER who sucked it somehow from GIOTTO.

I wish you could see that stove. I cook in it and on it and all around the sides and underneath
it. I wash my clothes in it, make punch in it, write on it, when cold sit on it, play poker
on it, and occasionally use it for a trunk. It also gives music, for though it don't draw,
it can sing.

My second friend is my Iron Bride--the sword. She is a useful creeter. Little did I think,
when you, my beloved friends, presented me with that deadly brand, how useful she would prove
in getting at the brandy, when I should have occasion to 'decap' a bottle. She kills pigs,
cuts cheese, toasts pork, slices lemons, stirs coffee, licks the horses, scares Secesh, and
cuts lead pencils. In a word, if I wished to give useful advice to a cavalry officer, it would
be not to go to war without a sword.

A revolver is also extremely utilitarious. A large revolver, mind you, with six corks. Mine
contains red and black pepper, salt, vinegar, oil, and ketchup--when I'm in a hurry. A curious
circumstance once 'transpired,' as the missionaries say, in relation to this article of the
quizzeen. All the barrels were loaded--which I had forgotten--and so proceeded to give it an
extra charge of groceries. * * *

It was a deadly fray. Rang tang bang, paoufff! We fought as if it had been a Sixth Ward election.
Suddingly I found myself amid a swarm of my country's foes. Sabres slashed at me, and in my
rage I determined to exterminate something. Looking around from mere force of habit to see
that there were no police about, I drew my revolver and aimed at JIM MARRYGOLD of Charleston,
whom I had last seen owling it in New Orleans, four years ago. He and DICK MIDDLETONGUE of
Natchez (who carved the Butcher's Daughter at Florence, and who is now a Secesh major), came
down with their cheese knives, evidently intending to carve me. Such language you never heard,
such a diluvium of profanity, such double-shotted d--ns! I drew my pistol at once, and gave
Dick a blizzard. The ball went through his ear--the red pepper took his eyes, while Jim received
the shot in his hat, and with it the sweet oil. In this sweet state of affairs, CHARLEY RUFFEM
of Savannah was descending on me with his sabre. (He was the man who said my browns were all
put in with guano.) I put him out of the way of criticism with a third barrel--killed him dead,
and salted him.

The best of this war is, it enables me to exterminate so many bad artists.

The worst of it is that Charley owed me five dollars.

A fifth Secesh now made his appearance. We went it on the sword, and fought--for further particulars
see Ivanhoe, volume second. My foe was RAWLEY CHIVERS, of Tuscumbia, Ala., and as the mischief
would have it, he knew all my guards and cuts. We used to fence together, and had had more
than one trial at 'fertig-los!' on the old Pauk-boden in Heidelberg.

'POP!' said he on the seventeenth round, 'are we going to chop all day?'

'CHIV,' said I, as I drew my castor, 'are you ready?'

'Ready,' quoth he, effecting the same manoeuvre--'one, two, three.'

I scratched his cheek, but the mustard settled him. Sputter--p'l'z'z'z--how he swore! I went
at him with both hands.

'Priz?' I cried.

'Priz it is,' he answered.

So I took him off as a priz. He was very glad to go too, for he hadn't had a dinner for six
weeks, and would have made a fine study for a Murillo beggar so ar as rags went.

I punish my men whenever I catch them foraging. Punish them by confiscation. Mild as I am by
nature, I never allow them to keep stolen provisions--when I am hungry.

Yesterday evening I detected a vast German private with a colossal bull-turkey.

'Lay it down there, sir!' I exclaimed fiercely--indicating the floor of my tent as the bank
of deposit.

'But den when I leafs it you eats de toorky up!' he exclaimed in sorrowful remonstrance.

'Yes,' I replied, like a Roman. 'Yes--I may eat it--but,' I added in tones of high moral conscientiousness,
'remember that I didn't STEAL it!'

He went forth abashed.

No more till it is eaten, from

  Yours truly,

  POPPY OYLE.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are indebted to a Philadelphia correspondent for the following:

  Alas! that noble thoughts so oft
  Are born to live but for an hour,
  Then sleep in slumber of the soul
  As droops at night the passion flower,
  Their morn is like a summer sun
  With splendor dawning on the day--
  Their eve beholds that glory gone,
  And light with splendor fled away.

  J. W. L.

True indeed. The difference between the great mind and the small is after all that the former
can retain its 'noble thoughts,' while with the latter they are evanescent. And it is the glory
of Art that it revives such feelings, and keeps early impressions alive.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE GERMAN OF HEINE.

  My love, in our light boat riding,
    We sat at the close of day;
  And still through the night went gliding,
    Afar on our watery way.

  The Spirit Isle, soft glowing,
    Lay dimmering 'neath moon and star;
  There music was softly flowing,
    And cloud dances waved afar:

  And ever more sweetly pealing,
    And waving more winningly;
  But past it our boat went stealing,
    All sad on the wide, wide sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is an

ADVENTURE WITH A GRIZZLY BEAR,

from a Philadelphia correspondent:

     'We had gone out one morning, while camping upon the river San
     Joaquin, to indulge in the sport of fowling. There were three of
     us, and we possessed two skiffs, but an accident had reduced our
     sculls to a single pair, which my companion used to propel one of
     the boats down the stream, after securing the other, with me as its
     occupant, in the midst of a thicket of tule, where I awaited in
     ambush the flying flocks. As geese and ducks abounded, and nearly
     all of my shots told, in a few hours I had killed plenty of game;
     but becoming weary, as the intervals lengthened between the flights
     of the birds, I sat down, and had already begun to nod dozingly,
     when a startling splash, near the river bank, instantly aroused me.
     Grasping my gun and springing upright, I looked in the direction
     whence the sound had come; but, owing to the intervening mass of
     tule, could not see what kind of animal--for such I at once
     conjectured it must be--had occasioned my sudden surprise. Having
     hitherto seen no domestic stock hereabouts, I therefore felt fully
     satisfied that it could not belong to a tame species. Judging from
     the noise of its still continued movements, it was of no small
     bulk; and, if its ferocity were correspondent with its apparent
     size, this was indeed a beast to be dreaded.

     'The thought at once occurred to me that, as I possessed neither
     oars nor other means of propulsion, it would be difficult to move
     the boat from its mooring if chance or acuteness of scent should
     lead the creature to my place of concealment. In short, this, with
     various suggestions of fancy, some of them ludicrously exaggerated,
     speedily made me apprehensive of imminent danger. Nor was my
     suspicion unfounded, for a crisis was at hand.

     'There was a space of clear water between the river bank and the
     margin of the tule, in which the brute seemed to disport a few
     moments; and then the rustling of the reeds indicated that it was
     about to advance. With heavy footfalls it came toward me; as it
     approached my nervousness increased; I could not mistake that
     significant tread; undoubtedly it was a grizzly bear. But how could
     I escape? Bruin, though his progress was not unimpeded, was surely
     drawing near. Following my first impulse in this pressing
     emergency, I placed myself forward in the boat, and, seizing a
     handful of green blades on either side of it, endeavored, by
     violently pulling upon them, to force the craft through the thick
     growth which surrounded it. The headway of the skiff was slow, but
     my efforts were not silent. In fact, the commotion occasioned by my
     own panic became, to my hearing, so confounded with the sound made
     by my floundering pursuer that my excited imagination multiplied
     the single supposed bear, and the water seemed to be dashed about
     by several formidable 'grizzlies.'

     'You smile, gentlemen, but really I was so impressed with this and
     like extravagant creations of fear that my better judgment was
     temporarily suspended. This deception, however, was only of
     momentary duration.

     'Suddenly the skiff encountered some obstacle and remained
     immovable. Quickly clutching my gun and firing it aimlessly, I
     sprang overboard, and, with extraordinary energy, made for the
     other side of the river and safety.

     'My remembrance of that hazardous crossing even now fills me with a
     sympathetic thrill. The river, near where I had leaped in, varied
     in depth from my middle to my neck, and the snaky stalks of tule
     clung to me, retarding my retreat like faithful allies of the
     enemy. An area of this plant extended to the channel, a distance of
     some fifty yards, where a clear current rendered swimming feasible;
     and this I essayed to reach, urged onward by terror, and regardless
     of ordinary obstructions. So vigorous was my action that,
     notwithstanding the frequent reversals of my head and 'head's
     antipodes' as I tripped over reeds and roots, perhaps I should have
     reached the 'point proposed' with only a loss equivalent to the
     proverbial 'year's growth,' had not a hidden snag unluckily lain in
     the way, which 'by hook or by crook' fastened itself in the part of
     my trowsers exactly corresponding, when dry, with that 'broad disk
     of drab' finally seen, after much anxiety, by the curious Geoffrey
     Crayon between the parted coat-skirts of a certain mysterious
     'Stout Gentleman,' and inextricably held me in check despite my
     frantic struggles.

     'Imagine my feelings while thus entangled by a bond of enduring
     material, a bait for a fierce brute which eagerly pressed forward
     to snap at me. Believe me, boys, this was not the happiest moment
     of my life. I knew no reason why I should resignedly submit to so
     undistinguished a fate. My knife, however, was in the boat, so that
     my release could only be attained by extreme exertion. Accordingly
     I writhed and jerked with my 'best violence,' all the time
     denouncing the whole race of bears, from 'Noah's pets' down; and
     you may be sure, emphatically expressing not a very exalted opinion
     of snags.

     'Ah! how that brief period of horrible suspense appeared to
     stretch out almost to the crack of doom. I roared lustily for help,
     but no aid came. The bear continued its course through the thicket;
     in another instant I might be seized.

     'Rather than suffer such a 'taking off' as this, which now seemed
     inevitable, I should have welcomed as an easy death any method of
     exit from life that I might hitherto have deprecated. Incited then
     by the proximity of the beast, which so intensified the horror of
     my situation, to a last desperate effort to avert this much dreaded
     fate; and, concentrating nearly a superhuman strength upon one
     impetuous bound, the stubborn fabric burst, and--joy possessed my
     soul!

     'Even greater than my recent misery was the ecstasy which succeeded
     my liberation. The happy sense of relief imparted to me such a
     feeling of buoyancy that I was enabled to extricate myself from
     this 'slough of despond,' and I soon reached the swift current,
     when a few strokes landed me in security on a jutting bar.

     'Without unnecessary delay I sought out my comrades, to whom I told
     the story of my escape. Their response was a hearty laugh, and
     certain equivocal words which might imply doubt--not as to my
     fright, for that was too plain--but concerning the identity of the
     'grizzly.' I observed, however, that, as they rowed nearer to the
     scene of my disaster, their display of levity lessened; and as we
     came within sight of the suspicious locality, there was not the
     'ghost of a joke' on board; but, on the contrary, thay both charged
     me to 'keep a bright look out,' as well as to 'see that the arms
     were all right,' thus showing a remarkable diminution of their
     previous incredulity.

     'While cautiously exploring the vicinity of my memorable flight, we
     saw the bear in the distance, upon a piece of rising ground. It
     moved off with a lumbering shuffle and probably a contented
     stomach, for, on searching for my scattered game, we found but
     little of it left besides sundry fragments and many feathers.'

       *       *       *       *       *

In the old times people received queer names, and plenty of them. On Long Island a Mr. Crabb
named a child 'Through-much-tribulation-we-enter-into-the-kingdom-of-heaven Crabb.' The child
went by the name of Tribby. Scores of such names could be cited. The practice of giving long
and curious names is not yet out of date. In Saybrook, Conn., is a family by the name of Beman,
whose children are successively named as follows:

1. Jonathan Hubbard Lubbard Lambard Hunk Dan Dunk Peter Jacobus Lackany Christian Beman.

2. Prince Frederick Henry Jacob Zacheus Christian Beman.

3. Queen Caroline Sarah Rogers Ruhamah Christian Beman.

4. Charity Freelove Ruth Grace Mercy Truth Faith and Hope and Peace pursue I'll have no more
to do for that will go clear through Christian Beman.

Some of the older American names were not unmusical. In a Genealogical Register open before
us we frequently find Dulcena, Eusena, Sabra, and Norman; 'Czarina' also occurs. Rather peculiar
at the present day are Puah and Azoa (girls), Albion, Ardelia, Philomelia, Serepta, Persis,
Electa, Typhenia, Lois, Selim, Damarias, Thankful, Sephemia, Zena, Experience, Hilpa, Penninnah,
Juduthum, Freelove, Luthena, Meriba (this lady married 'Oney Anness' at Providence, R.I., in
1785), Paris, Francena, Vienna, Florantina, Phedora, Azuba, Achsah, Alma, Arad, Asenah, Braman,
Cairo, Candace, China (this was a Miss Ware--China Ware--who married Moses Bullen at Sherburne,
Mass., in 1805), Curatia, Deliverance, Diadema, Electus, Hopestill, Izanna, Loannis, Loravia,
Lovice, Orilla, Orison, Osro, Ozoro, Permelia, Philinda, Roavea, Rozilla, Royal, Salmon, Saloma,
Samantha, Silence, Siley, Alamena, Eda, Aseneth, Bloomy, Syrell, Geneora, Burlin, Idella, Hadasseh,
Patrora (Martainly), Allethina, Philura, and Zebina.

Some of these names are still extant--most have become obsolete. It would be a commendable
idea should some scholar publish a work containing the Names of all Nations!

       *       *       *       *       *

Doubtless the reader has heard much of the Wandering Jew and of his trials, but we venture
to say that he has probably not encountered a more affecting state of the case than is set
forth in the following lyric, translated from the German, in which language it is entitled
'Ahasver,' and beginneth as follows:

THE EVERLASTING OLD JEW.

  'Ich bin der alte
     Ahasver,
   Ich wand're hin,
     Ich wand're her.
   Mein Ruh ist hin,
     Mein Herz ist schwer,
   Ich finde sie nimmer,
     Und nimmermehr.'

  I am the old
    Ahasuér;
  I wander here,
    I wander there.
  My rest is gone,
    My heart is sair;
  I find it never,
    And nevermair.

  Loud roars the storm,
    The milldams tear;
  I cannot perish,
    O malheur!
  My heart is void,
    My head is bare;
  I am the old
    Ahasuér.

  Belloweth ox
    And danceth bear,
  I find them never,
    Never mair.
  I'm the old Hebrew
    On a tare;
  I order arms:
    My heart is sair.

  I'm goaded round,
    I know not where:
  I wander here,
    I wander there.
  I'd like to sleep,
    But must forbear:
  I am the old
    Ahasuér.

  I meet folks alway
    Unaware:
  My rest is gone,
    I'm in despair.
  I cross all lands,
    The sea I dare:
  I travel here,
    I wander there.

  I feel each pain,
    I sometimes swear:
  I am the old
    Ahasuér.
  Criss-cross I wander
    Anywhere;
  I find it never,
    Never mair.

  Against the wale
    I lean my spear;
  I find no quiet,
    I declare.
  My peace is lost,
    My heart is sair:
  I swing like pendulum in air.

  I'm hard of hearing,
    You're aware?
  Curaçoa is
    A fine liquéur.
  I 'listed once
    En militaire:
  I find no comfort
    Anywhere.

  But what's to stop it?
    Pray declare!
  My peace is gone.
    My heart is sair:
  I am the old
    Ahasuér.
  Now I know nothing,
    Nothing mair.

Truly a hard case, and one far surpassing the paltry picturing of Eugène Sue. There is a vagueness
of mind and a senile bewilderment manifested in this poem, which is indeed remarkable.

       *       *       *       *       *

One fine day, some time ago, SAVIN and PIDGEON were walking down Fifth avenue to their offices.

A funeral was starting from No. --. On the door plate was the word IRVING.

'Such is life,' said Savin. 'All that is mortal of the great essayist is being borne to the
grave: in fact, the cold and silent tomb.'

A tear came to Pidgeon's eye. Pidgeon has an enthusiastic veneration for genius. He adores
literary talent.

'Savin,' said he, 'there is a seat vacant in this carriage. I will enter it, and pay my last
tribute of respect to the illustrious departed. But I thought he had a place up the river.'

'This was his town house,' said Savin. 'How I should like to join with you in your thoughtful
remembrance, and in your somewhat unceleritous journey to the churchyard! But, no, the case
of Blackbridge vs. Bridgeblack will be called at twelve, and I have no time to lose.'

Pidgeon entered the carriage. There was a large man on the seat, but Pigeon found room beside
him. The carriage slowly moved off. Pidgeon put his handkerchief to his eyes; the large man
coughed and took a chew of tobacco.

Presently said Pidgeon:

'We are following to the grave the remains of a splendid writer.'

'Uncommon,' said the large man. 'Sech a man with a pen I never see--ekalled by few, and excelled
by none; copperplate wasn't nowhere.'

'Indeed,' replied Pidgeon, 'I wasn't aware his chirography was so unusually elegant; but his
books were magnificent, weren't they? So equable, too, and without that bold speculation that
we too often meet with, nowadays.'

'Ah, you may well say so,' returned the large man. 'He always kept them himself; had 'em sent
up to his house whenever he was sick, likeways; but he wasn't without his bold speculations
neither. Look at that there operation of his into figs, last year.'

'Figs!'

'Figs, yes; and there was dates into the same cargo.'

'Dates! figs! My good friend, do you mean to say that the great Washington Irving speculated
in groceries?'

'Lord, no, not that I know of. This here is Josh Irving, whose remains'--

Pidgeon opened the carriage door, and, being agile, got out without stopping the procession.
Arriving at his office, where the boy was diligently occupied in sticking red wafers over the
velvet of his desk lid, he took down 'Sugden on Vendors,' to ascertain if there was any legal
remedy for the manner in which he had been sold, and at the latest dates had unsuccessfully
travelled nearly half through that very entertaining volume.

THERE is no time to be lost. Either the Union is to be made stronger, or it is to perish; and
the sooner every man's position is defined, the better. If you are opposed to the war, say
so, and step over to Secession, but do not falter and equivocate, croak and grumble, and play
the bat of the fable. The manly, good, old-fashioned Democrats, at least, are above this, and
are rapidly dividing from the copperheads. The Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, a staunch patriotic
journal, says:

'The sooner that the fact is made clear that the mass of the Democrats, as well as of all other
parties, are loyal and opposed to the infamous teachings of Vallandigham, Biddle, Reed, Ingersoll,
Wood, and their compeers, the sooner will the war be brought to an end and the Union be restored.'

Show your colors. Let us know at once who and what everybody is, in this great struggle.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOVE-LIFE.

  In a forest lone, 'neath a mossy stone,
    Pale flowrets grew:
  No sunlight fell in the sombre dell,
    Raindrop nor dew.

  Bring them to light, where all is bright,
    See if they grow?
  Yes, stem and leaf are green,
  While, hid in crimson sheen,
    The petals glow.

  Girl blossoms, too, love the sun and dew,
    And the soft air:
  Hidden from love's eye they fade and die,
  In city low or cloister high,
    Yes, everywhere.

  Give them but love, the fire from above,
    And they will grow,
  The once cold children of the gloom,
  Rich in their bloom, shedding perfume
    On high and low.

       *       *       *       *       *

We beg leave to remind our readers that Mr. LELAND'S new book, Sunshine in Thought, retail
price $1, is given as a premium to all who subscribe $3 in advance to the CONTINENTAL MONTHLY.
Will the reader permit us to call attention to the following notice of the work from the Philadelphia
Evening Bulletin:

     'A beautiful volume, entitled Sunshine in Thought, by Charles
     Godfrey Leland, has just been published by Charles T. Evans. No
     work from Mr. Leland's pen has afforded us so much pleasure, and we
     recommend it to all who want and relish bright, refreshing,
     cheering reading. It consists of a number of essays, the main idea
     of which is to inculcate joyousness in thought and feeling, in
     opposition to the sickly, sentimental seriousness which is so much
     affected in literature and in society. That a volume based on this
     one idea should be filled with reading that is never tiresome, is a
     proof of great cleverness. But Mr. Leland's varied learning, and
     his extensive acquaintance with foreign as well as English
     literature, combine with his native talent to qualify him for such
     a work. He has done nothing so well, not even his admirable
     translation of Heine's Reisebilder. He is thoroughly imbued with
     the spirit of his motto, 'Hilariter,' and in expressing his
     bright thoughts, he has been peculiarly felicitous in style.
     Nothing of his that we have read shows so much elegance and polish.
     Every chapter in the book is delightful, but we especially enjoyed
     that on 'Tannhæuser,' with the fine translation and subsequent
     elucidation of the famous legend.' But the boldest and most
     original chapter is the concluding one, with its strange
     speculations on 'The Musical After-Life of the Soul,' and the
     after-death experience of 'Dione' and 'Bel-er-oph-on,' which the
     author characterizes in the conclusion as 'an idle, fantastic,
     foolish dream.' So it may be, but it is as vividly told as any
     dream of the Opium-Eater or the Hasheesh-Eater. Mr. Leland is to be
     congratulated on his Sunshine in Thought. It is a book that will
     be enjoyed by every reader of culture, and its effect will be good
     wherever it is read.'

The aim proposed in this work is one of great interest at the present time, or, as the Philadelphia
North American declares, 'is a great and noble one'--'to aid in fully developing the glorious
problem of freeing labor from every drawback, and of constantly raising it and intellect in
the social scale.' 'Mr. LELAND believes that one of the most powerful levers for raising labor
to its true position in the estimation of the world, is the encouragement of cheerfulness and
joyousness in every phase of literature and of practical life.' 'The work is one long, glowing
sermon, the text of which is the example of Jesus Christ.'

  E. K.

BUST-HEAD WHISKEY.

For two days the quiet of the Rising Sun Tavern, in the quaint little town of Shearsville,
Ohio, was disturbed by a drunken Democratic member of the Pennsylvania Legislature, who visited
the town in order to address what he hoped would turn out to be the assembled multitude of
copperheads, but which proved after all no great snakes!

For two days this worthless vagabond insulted travellers stopping at the tavern, until at last
the landlord's wife, a woman of some intelligence, determined to have her revenge, since no
man on the premises had pluck enough to give the sot the thrashing he so well merited.

On the third day, after a very severe night's carouse on bust-head whiskey, the Pennsylvanian
appeared at the breakfast table, looking sadly the worse for wear, and having an awful headache.
The landlady having previously removed the only looking glass in the tavern--one hanging in
the barroom--said to the beast as he sat down to table:

'Poor man! oh, what is the matter with your face? It is terribly swollen, and your whole head
too. Can't I do something for you? send for the doctor, or'--

The legislator, who was in a state of half-besottedness, listened with sharp ears to this remark,
but believing the landlady was only making fun of him, interrupted her with--

'There ain't nothin' the matter with my head. I'm all right; only a little headache what don't
'mount to nothing.'

But a man who sat opposite to him at table, and who had his clue from the landlady, said with
an alarmed look--

'I say, mister, I don't know it's any of my business, but I'll be hanged for a horse thief,
if your head ain't swelled up twicet its nat'ral size. You'd better do something for it, I'm
thinking.'

The drunken legislator! (Legislator, n. One who makes laws for a state: vide dictionary) believing
at last that his face must in fact be swollen, since several other travellers, who were in
the plot, also spoke to him of his shocking appearance, got up from the table and went out
to the barroom to consult the looking glass, such luxuries not being placed in the chambers.
But there was no glass there. After some time he found the landlady, and she told him that
the barroom glass was broken, but she could lend him a small one; which she at once gave him.

The poor sot, with trembling hand, held it in front of his face, and looked in.

'Well,' said he, 'if that ain't a swelled head I hope I may never be a senator! or sell my
vote again at Harrisburg.'

'Poor man!' exclaimed the bystanders.

'Fellers,' said the legislator, 'wot d'ye think I'd better do?' Here he gave another hard look
in the glass. 'I ought to be back in Harrisburg right off, but I cant go with a head like that
onto me. Nobody'd give me ten cents to vote for 'em with such a head as that. It's a'--

'Big thing,' interrupted a bystander.

'Fellers,' said the blackguard, 'I'll kill a feller any day of the week, with old rye, if he'll
only tell er feller how to cure this head of mine.'

'Have it shaved, sir, by all means,' spoke the landlady: 'shaved at once, and then a mild fly
blister will draw out the inflammation, and the swelling will go down. Don't you think so, doctor?'

The doctor thus addressed was a cow doctor, but, accustomed to attending brutes, his advice
was worth something in the present case; so he also recommended shaving and blistering.

'I'll go git the barber right off the reel, sha'n't I?' asked the doctor, to which the legislator
assenting, it chanced that in fifteen minutes his head was as bald as a billiard ball, and
in a few more was covered with a good-sized fly blister.

'Ouch--good woman--how it hurts!' he cried. But that was only the beginning of it.

'Ee-ea-ah!' he roared, as it grew hotter and hotter. One might have heard him a mile. The neighbors
did hear it, and rushed in. The joke was 'contaminated' round among them, and they enjoyed
it. He had disgusted them all.

'Golly! what a big head!' cried a bystander.

The legislator took another look at the glass. They held it about a yard from him.

'It's gittin' smaller, ain't it?' he groaned.

'Yes, it's wiltin',' said the landlady. 'Now go to bed.'

He went, and on rising departed. Whether he ever became an honest man is not known, but the
legend says he has from that day avoided 'bust-head whiskey.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Don't you see it, reader? The landlady had shown him his face in a convex mirror--one of those
old-fashioned things, which may occasionally be found in country taverns.

       *       *       *       *       *

WAR-WAIFS.

The chronicles of war in all ages show us that this internecine strife into which we of the
North have been driven by those who will eventually rue the necessity, is by no manner of means
the first in which brother has literally been pitted against brother in the deadly 'tug of
war.' The fiercest conflict of the kind, however, which we can at present call up from the
memory of past readings, was one in which THEODEBERT, king of Austria, took the field against
his own brother, THIERRI, king of Burgundy. Historians tell us that, so close was the hand-to-hand
fighting in this battle, slain soldiers did not fall until the mélée was over, but were borne
to and fro in an upright position amid the serried ranks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although many and many of England's greatest battles have been won for her by her Irish soldiers,
it is not always that the latter can be depended upon by her. With the Celt, above all men,
'blood is thicker than water;' and, although he is very handy at breaking the head of another
Celt with a blackthorn 'alpeen,' in a free faction fight, he objects to making assaults upon
his fellow countrymen with the 'pomp and circumstance of war.' A striking instance of this
occurred during the Irish rebellion of 1798. The 5th Royal Irish Light Dragoons refused to
charge upon a body of the rebels when the word was given. Not a man or horse stirred from the
ranks. Here was a difficult card to play, now, for the authorities, because it would have been
inconvenient to try the whole regiment by court martial, and the soldiers were quite too valuable
to be mowed down en masse. The only course left was to disband the regiment, which was done.
The disaffected men were distributed into regiments serving in India and other remote colonies,
and the officers, none of whom, we believe, were involved in the mutiny, were provided for
in various quarters. The circumstance was commemorated in a curious way. It was ordered that
the 5th Royal Irish Light Dragoons should be erased from the records of the army list, in which
a blank between the 4th and 6th Dragoons should remain forever, as a memorial of disgrace.
For upward of half a century this gap remained in the army list, as anybody may see by referring
to any number of that publication of half-a-dozen years back. The regiment was revived during,
or just after, the Crimean war, and the numbers in the army list are once more complete.

  The Great Prairie State. By Mrs. C. M. Kirkland,                   513

  A Winter in Camp. By E. G. Hammond,                                519

  In Memoriam. By Richard Wolcott,                                   527

  A Merchant's Story. By Edmund Kirke,                               528

  Shylock vs. Antonio. By Carlton Edwards                          539

  A Heroine of To-Day,                                               543

  National Ode,                                                      554

  The Surrender of Forts Jackson and St. Philip,
    on the Mississippi. By F. H. Gerdes. Assistant
    U. S. Coast Survey,                                              557

  Reason, Rhyme, and Rhythm. By Mrs. Martha Cook,                    562

  The Value of the Union. By William H. Muller,                      571

  War Song--Earth's Last Battle. By Mrs. Martha Cook,                586

  Miriam's Testimony. By Richard B. Kimball,                          611

  The Union. By Hon. Robert J. Walker,                               615

  The Causes and Results of the War. By Lieut. Egbert
    Phelps, U.S.A                                                    617

  Great Heart,                                                       629

  Literary Notices                                                   630

The June No. of the Continental will contain an article on 'The Confederation and the Nation,'
by Edward Carey.