  They spoke the native language now; but--it was too absurd--
  Of none of their own idioms they apparently had heard!
  My most colloquial phrases fell, I found, extremely flat.
  They may have come out wrong-side up, but none the worse for that.

  I tried them with my Manual; it was but little good;
  For not one word of their replies I ever understood.
  They never said the sentences that should have followed next:
  I found it quite impossible to keep them to the text!

  Besides, unblushing reference to a Conversation-Book
  Imparts to social intercourse an artificial look.
  So I let the beggars have their way. 'Twas everywhere the same;
  I led the proper openings--they wouldn't play the game.

  Now I've pitched the Manual away that got me in this mess,
  And in ingenious pantomime my wishes I express.
  They take me for an idiot mute, an error I deplore:
  But still--I'm better understood than e'er I was before!

       *       *       *       *       *

A PRODUCT OF THE SILLY SEASON.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,

London at the end of August is not particularly inviting, save in one respect--it is negatively
pleasant to find that Matinées are all but suspended. I should say quite, were it not that
the Shaftesbury Theatre on the 27th opened its doors at a quarter to three o'clock in the afternoon,
for the performance of The Violin Makers, an adaptation of Le Luthier de Crémone, and the production
of a "new and original Comedy sketch," in two Acts, called The Deacon, by HENRY ARTHUR JONES.
The first piece I had already seen at the Bushey Theatre, with Professor HERKOMER, R.A., in
the principal character. I had now an opportunity of comparing the Artist-Actor with the Manager-Actor,
and must confess that I liked the former better than the latter. Mr. WILLARD as Filippo, was
Mr. WILLARD, but Professor HERKOMER, shaved for the occasion, seemed to be anyone other than
Professor HERKOMER. The mounting of the piece at Bushey was also greatly to be preferred to
the mise-en-scène in Shaftesbury Avenue, and as the accomplished Artist-Actor had also supplied
some exceedingly touching music to his version of FRANÇOIS COPPEE's Poetical Play, which was
wanting two hundred yards from Piccadilly Circus, I was altogether better pleased with the
entertainment served up with sauce à la Herkomer. I may be wrong in preferring the amateur
to the professional, or I may be right--after all, it is merely a matter of opinion.

Mr. JONES is entirely justified in calling The Deacon a "sketch," as it can scarcely claim
greater histrionic importance. I think I may take it for granted that a sausage-maker, from
the nature of his employment, is usually presumed to be a man not absolutely without guile,
and, therefore, Abraham Boothroyd, "Wholesale bacon-factor, Mayor of Chipping Padbury on the
Wold, and Senior Deacon of Ebenezer Chapel," may perhaps be counted one of those exceptions
that are said to prove the rule. According to Mr. JONES, this eccentric individual comes up
to town to attend an indignation meeting held with a view to protesting against the conversion
of Exeter Hall into a temple of the drama, and after dining with "a Juliet of fifteen years
ago," and a new and quaint sort of Barrister, accompanies them to the play, and is so greatly
pleased with the performances presented, to him, that, before the curtain falls, he announces
his intention of repeating his visit to the theatre every evening until further notice! This
may be true to human nature, because there is authority for believing that the said human nature
is occasionally a "rum un"; but, without the precedent I have quoted, it is difficult to accept
the sudden conversion of Mr. Boothroyd as quite convincing. I could scarcely have believed
that Mr.