"Where is my lord?" he inquired, through teeth that chattered from the cold of his immersion,
wondering vaguely who this very magnificent gentleman might be.

"Is Messer Francesco del Falco your lord?" asked Romeo.

"He is, sir. I have had the honour to serve him these ten years. I bring him letters from Messer
Fanfulla degli Arcipreti. They are very urgent. Will you lead me to him?"

"You are very wet," murmured Gonzaga solicitously. "You will take your death from cold, and
the death of a man so brave as to have found a way through Gian Maria's lines were truly deplorable."
He stepped to the door. "Olá!" he called to the sentry. "Take this brave fellow up there and
find him a change of raiment." He pointed to the upper chamber of the tower, where, indeed,
such things were stored.

"But my letters, sir!" cried Zaccaria impatiently. "They are very urgent, and hours have I
wasted already in waiting for the night."

"Surely you can wait until you have changed your garments? Your life, I take it, is of more
account than the loss of a few moments."

"But my orders from Messer degli Arcipreti were that I must not lose an instant."

"Oh, si, si!" cried Gonzaga, with a show of good-tempered impatience. "Give me the letters,
then, and I will take them to the Count while you are stripping those wet clothes."

Zaccaria eyed him a moment in doubt. But he looked so harmless in his finery, and the expression
of his comely face was so winning and honest, that the man's hesitancy faded as soon as it
sprang up. Removing his cap, he drew from within the crown the letter, which he had placed
there to keep dry. This package he now handed to Gonzaga, who, with a final word of instruction
to the sentry touching the finding of raiment for the messenger, stepped out to go his errand.
But outside the door he paused, and called the sentry to him again.

"Here is a ducat for you," he whispered. "Do my bidding and you shall have more. Detain him
in the tower till I return, and on no account let him be seen or heard by anyone."

"Yes, Excellency," the man replied. "But what if the captain comes and finds me absent from
my post?"

"I will provide for that. I will tell Messer Fortemani that I have employed you on a special
matter, and ask him to replace you. You are dispensed sentry duty for to-night."

The man bowed, and quietly withdrew to attend to his prisoner, for in that light he now regarded
Zaccaria.

Gonzaga sought Fortemani in the guard-room below, and did as he had promised the sentry.

"But," snapped Ercole, reddening, "by whose authority have you done this? By what right do
you send sentinels on missions of your own? Christo Santo! Is the castle to be invaded while
you send my watchmen to fetch your comfit­box or a book of verses?"

"You will remember----" began Romeo, with an air of overwhelming dignity.

"Devil take you and him that sent you!" broke in the bully. "The Messer Provost shall hear
of this."

"On no account," cried Gonzaga, now passing from anger to alarm, and snatching the skirts of
Fortemani's cloak as the captain was in the act of going out to execute his threat. "Ser Ercole
be reasonable, I beg of you. Are we to alarm the castle and disturb Monna Valentina over a
trumpery affair such as this? Man, they will laugh at you."

"Eh?" There was nothing Ercole relished less than to be laughed at. He pondered a moment, and
it occurred to him that perhaps he was making much of nothing. Then:

"You, Aventano," he called, "take your partisan, and patrol the eastern rampart. There, Messer
Gonzaga, I have obeyed your wishes; but Messer Francesco shall hear of it when he comes his
rounds."

Gonzaga left him. Francesco would not make his rounds for another hour, and by then it would
not matter what Fortemani told him. In one way or another he would be able to account for his
action.

He crossed the courtyard, and mounted the steps leading to his own chamber. Once there, he
closed and barred the door. He kindled a light, and flinging the letter on the table, he sat
and contemplated its exterior and the great red seal that gleamed in the yellow light of his taper.

So! This knight-errant, this man whom he had accounted a low-born hind, was none other than
the famous Count of Aquila, the well-beloved of the people of Babbiano, the beau-ideal of all
military folk from Sicily to the Alps. And he had never suspected it! Dull-witted did he now
account himself. Enough descriptions had he heard of that famous condottiero, that mirror of
Italian chivalry. He might have known that there did not live two men of such commanding ways
as he had seen instanced at Roccaleone. What was his object there? Was it love of Valentina,
or was it----? He paused, as in his mind he made a swift review of the politics of Babbiano.
A sudden possibility occurred to him that made his eyes sparkle and his hands tremble with
eagerness. Was this but a political scheme to undermine his cousin's throne, to which Gonzaga
had heard it rumoured that Francesco del Falco was an aspirant? If it were so, what a vengeance
would be his to unmask him! How it must humble Valentina! The letter lay before him. Within
it the true facts would be disclosed. What did his friend Fanfulla write him?

He took the letter up and made a close inspection of the seal. Then softly, quietly, slowly
he drew his dagger. If his suspicions were unfounded, his dagger heated in the taper should
afford him the means to conceal the fact that he had tampered with that missive. He slipped
his blade under the seal, and worked it cautiously until it came up and set the letter open.
He unfolded it, and as he read his eyes dilated. He seemed to crouch on his chair, and the
hand that held the paper shook. He drew the candle nearer, and shading his eyes he read it
again, word for word:

"MY DEAR LORD COUNT,--I have delayed writing until the time when the signs I observed should
have become more definite, as they have now done, so that I may delay no longer. This, then,
goes by the hand of Zaccaria, to tell you that to-day has word been sent Gian Maria giving
him three days in which to return to Babbiano, or to abandon all hope of his crown, of which
the people will send the offer then to you at Aquila, where you are believed to be. So now,
my dear lord, you have the tyrant at your mercy, tossed between Scylla and Charybdis. Yours
it is to resolve how you will act; but I rejoice in being the one to send you word that your
presence at Roccaleone and your stubborn defence of the fortress has not been vain, and that
presently you are to reap the well-earned reward of it. The people have been stirred to this
extreme action by the confusion prevailing here.

"News has reached us that Caesar Borgia is arming, at Rome, a condotta to invade Babbiano,
and the people are exasperated at Gian Maria's continued absence in such a season. They are
short-sighted in this, for they overlook the results that must attend the alliance with Urbino.
May God protect and prosper your Excellency, whose most devoted servant is

"FANFULLA DEGLI AROIPRETI."

CHAPTER XXII. A REVELATION

"Francesco," said Valentina, and the name came from her lips as if it were an endearment, "why
that frowning, care­worn look?"

They were in the dining-room alone, where the others had left them, and they were still seated
at the table at which they had supped. Francesco raised his dark, thoughtful eyes, and as they
lighted now on Valentina the thoughtfulness that was in them gave place to tenderness.

"I am fretted by this lack of news," he acknowledged. "I would I knew what is being done in
Babbiano. I had thought that ere now Caesar Borgia had stirred Gian Maria's subjects into some
manner of action. I would I knew!"

She rose, and coming close to him, she stood with one hand resting upon his shoulder, her eyes
smiling down upon his upturned face.

"And shall such a trifle fret you--you who professed a week ago that you would this siege might
last for ever?"

"Account me not fickle, anima mia," he answered her, and he kissed the ivory fingers that rested
on his shoulder. "For that was before the world changed for me at the magic of your bidding.
And so," he repeated, "I would I knew what is toward at Babbiano!"

"But why sigh over a wish so idle?" she exclaimed. "By what means can news reach you here of
the happenings of the world without?"

He pondered a moment, seeking words in which to answer her. A score of times during that week
had he been on the point of disclosing himself, of telling her who and what he was. Yet ever
had he hesitated, putting off that disclosure until the season should appear more fitting.
This he now considered the present. She trusted him, and there was no reason to remain silent
longer. Perhaps already he had delayed too long, and so he was about to speak when she started
from his side, and crossed hastily to the window, alarmed by the sound of approaching steps.
A second later the door opened, and Gonzaga appeared.

A moment he hesitated in the doorway, looking from one to the other, and Francesco, lazily
regarding him in his turn, noted that his cheeks were pale and that his eyes glittered like
those of a man with the fever. Then he stepped forward, and, leaving the door open behind him,
he advanced into the room.

"Monna Valentina, I have something to communicate to you." His voice shook slightly. "Messer--Francesco,
will you give us leave?" And his feverish eyes moved to the open door with an eloquence that
asked no words.

Francesco rose slowly, endeavouring to repress his surprise and glanced across at Valentina,
as if awaiting her confirmation or refusal of this request that he should leave them.

"A communication for me?" she marvelled, a slight frown drawing her brows together. "Of what
nature, sir?"

"Of a nature as important as it is private."

She raised her chin, and with a patient smile she seemed to beg of Francesco that he would
suffer her to humour this mood of Gonzaga's. In quick obedience Francesco inclined his head.

"I shall be in my chamber until the hour of my rounds, Madonna," he announced, and with that
took his departure.

Gonzaga attended him to the door, which he closed after him, and composing his features to
an expression of sorrowing indignation, he came back and stood facing Valentina across the table.

"Madonna," he said, "I would to Heaven this communication I have to make to you came from other
lips. In the light of what has passed--here at Roccaleone--through my folly--you--you may think
my mission charged with vindictiveness."

Perplexity stared at him from her eyes.

"You fill me with alarm, my good Gonzaga," she answered him, though smiling.

"Alas it has fallen to my unfortunate lot to do more than that. I have made the discovery of
as foul a piece of treachery here in your fortress as ever traitor hatched."

She looked at him more seriously now. The vehemence of his tone, and the suggestion of sorrow
that ran through it and gave it so frank an accent, commanded her attention.

"Treachery!" she echoed, in a low voice, her eyes dilating. "And from whom?"

He hesitated a moment, then waving his hand:

"Will you not sit, Madonna?" he suggested nervously.

Mechanically she seated herself at the table, her eyes ever on his face, alarm spreading in
her heart, born of suspense.

"Be seated too," she bade him, "and tell me."

He drew up a chair, sat down opposite to her, and taking a deep breath: "Heard you ever of
the Count of Aquila?" he inquired.

"It were odd if I had not. The most valiant knight in Italy, fame dubs him."

His eyes were intently on her face, and what he saw there satisfied him.

"You know how he stands with the people of Babbiano?"

"I know that he is beloved of them."

"And do you know that he is a pretender to the throne of Babbiano? You will remember that he
is cousin to Gian Maria?"

"His relationship to Gian Maria I know. That he pretends to the throne of Babbiano I was not
aware. But whither are we straying?"

"We are not straying, Madonna," answered Gonzaga, "we are making a straight line for the very
heart and soul of this treachery I spoke of. Would you believe me if I told you that here,
in Roccaleone, we have an agent of the Count of Aquila one who in the Count's interest is protracting
this siege with the pretended aim of driving Gian Maria off."

"Gonzaga----" she began, more than half guessing the drift of his explanation. But he interrupted
her with unusual brusqueness.

"Wait, Madonna," he cried, his eyes upon her face, his hand imperiously raised. "Hear me out
in patience. I am not talking idly. Of what I tell you I am armed with proof and witness. Such
an agent of--of the Count's interests we have among us, and his true object in protracting
this siege, and encouraging and aiding you in your resistance, is to outwear the patience of
the people of Babbiano with Gian Maria, and drive them in the hour of their approaching peril
from Caesar Borgia's armies to bestow the throne on Aquila."

"Where learnt you this foul lie?" she asked him, her cheeks crimson, her eyes on fire.

"Madonna," he said, in a patient voice, "this that you call a lie is already an accomplished
fact. I am not laying before you the fruits of idle speculation. I have upon me the most positive
proof that such a result as was hoped for has already been reached. Gian Maria has received
from his subjects a notification that unless he is in his capital within three days from this,
they will invest the Lord of Aquila with the ducal crown."

She rose, her anger well controlled, her voice calm.

"Where is this proof? No, no; I don't need to see it. Whatever it is, what shall it prove to
me? That your words, in so far as the politics of Babbiano are concerned, may be true; our
resistance of Gian Maria may indeed be losing him his throne and doing good service to the
cause of the Count of Aquila; but how shall all this prove that lie of yours, that Messer Francesco--for
it is clearly of him you speak--that Messer Francesco should be this agent of the Count's?
It is a lie, Gonzaga, for which you shall be punished as you deserve."

She ceased, and stood awaiting his reply, and as she watched him his calm demeanour struck
a chill into her heart. He was so confident, so full of assurance; and that, in Gonzaga, she
had learnt to know meant a strong bulwark 'twixt himself and danger. He sighed profoundly.

"Madonna, these cruel words of yours do not wound me, since they are no more than I expected.
But it will wound me--and sorely--if when you shall have learnt the rest you do not humbly
acknowledge how you have wronged me, how grossly you have misjudged me. You think I come to
you with evil in my heart, urged by a spirit of vindictiveness against Messer Francesco. Instead,
I come to you with nothing but a profound sorrow that mine must be the voice to disillusion
you, and a deep indignation against him that has so foully used you to his own ends. Wait,
Madonna! In a measure you are right. It was not strictly true to say that this Messer Francesco
is the agent of the Count of Aquila."

"Ah! You are recanting already?"

"Only a little--an insignificant little. He is no agent because----" He hesitated, and glanced
swiftly up. Then he sighed, lowered his voice, and with consummately simulated sorrow, he concluded
"Because he is, himself, Francesco del Falco. Count of Aquila."

She swayed a moment, and the colour died from her cheeks, leaving them ivory pale. She leaned
heavily against the table, and turned over in her mind what she had heard. And then, as suddenly
as it had gone, the blood rushed back into her face, mounting to her very temples.

"It's a lie!" she blazed at him; "a lie for which you shall be whipped."

He shrugged his shoulders, and cast Francesco's letter on to the table.

"There, Madonna, is something that will prove all that I have said."

She eyed the paper coldly. Her first impulse was to call Fortemani and carry out her threat
of having Gonzaga whipped, refusing so much as to see this thing that he so confidently termed
a proof; but it may be that his confidence wrought upon her, touching a chord of feminine curiosity.
That he was wrong she never doubted; but that he believed himself right she was also assured,
and she wondered what this thing might be that had so convinced him. Still she did not touch
it, but asked in an indifferent voice:

"What is it?"

"A letter that was brought hither to-night by a man who swam the moat, and whom I have ordered
to be detained in the armoury tower. It is from Fanfulla degli Arcipreti to the Count of Aquila.
If your memory will bear you back to a certain day at Acquasparta, you may recall that Fanfulla
was the name of a very gallant cavalier who addressed this Messer Francesco with marked respect."

She took that backward mental glance he bade her, and remembered. Then she remembered, too,
how that very evening Francesco had said that he was fretting for news of Babbiano, and that
when she had asked how he hoped that news could reach him at Roccaleone, Gonzaga had entered
before he answered her. Indeed, he had seemed to hesitate upon that answer. A sudden chill
encompassed her at that reflection. Oh, it was impossible, absurd! And yet she took the letter
from the table. With knit brows she read it, whilst Gonzaga watched her, scarce able to keep
the satisfaction from gleaming in his eyes.

She read it slowly, and as she read her face grew deathly pale. When she had finished she stood
silent for a long minute, her eyes upon the signature and her mind harking back to what Gonzaga
had said, and drawing comparison between that and such things as had been done and uttered,
and nowhere did she find the slightest gleam of that discrepancy which so ardently she sought.

It was as if a hand were crushing the heart in her bosom. This man whom she had trusted, this
peerless champion of her cause, to be nothing but a self-seeker, an intriguer, who, to advance
his own ends, had made a pawn of her. She thought of how for a moment he had held her in his
arms and kissed her, and at that her whole soul revolted against the notion that here was no
more than treachery.

"It's all a plot against him!" she cried, her cheeks scarlet again. "It's an infamous thing
of your devising, Messer Gonzaga, an odious lie!"

"Madonna, the man that brought the letter is still detained. Confront him with Messer Francesco;
or apply the question to him, and learn his master's true name and station. As for the rest,
if that letter is insufficient proof for you, I beg that you will look back at facts. Why should
he lie to you? and say that his name was Francesco Franceschi? Why should he have urged you--against
all reason--to remain here, when he brought you news that Gian Maria was advancing? Surely
had he but sought to serve you he had better accomplished this by placing his own castle of
Aquila at your disposal, and leaving here an empty nest for Gian Maria, as I urged."

She sank to a chair, a fever in her mind.

"I tell you, Madonna, there is no mistake. What I have said is true. Another three days would
he have held Gian Maria here, whilst if you gave him that letter, it is odds he would slip
away in the night of to-morrow, that he might be in Babbiano on the third day to take the throne
his cousin treats so lightly. Sainted God!" he cried out. "I think this is the most diabolically
treacherous plot that ever mind of man conceived and human heartlessness executed."

"But--but----" she faltered, "all this is presupposing that Messer Francesco is indeed the
Count of Aquila. May there--may it not be that this letter was meant for some other destination?"

"Will you confront this messenger with the Count?"

"With the Count?" she inquired dully. "With Messer Francesco, you mean?" She shuddered, and
with strange inconsistence: "No," she said, in a choking voice, her lip twisting oddly at the
corner. "I do not wish to see his face again."

A light gleamed in Gonzaga's eye, and was extinguished on the instant.

"Best make certain," he suggested, rising. "I have ordered Fortemani to bring Lanciotto here.
He will be waiting now, without. Shall I admit them?"

She nodded without speaking, and Gonzaga opened the door, and called Fortemani. A voice answered
him from the gloom of the banqueting-hall.

"Bring Lanciotto here," he commanded.

When Francesco's servant entered, a look of surprise on his face at these mysterious proceedings,
it was Valentina who questioned him, and that in a voice as cold as though the issue concerned
her no whit.

"Tell me, sirrah," she said, "and as you value your neck, see that you answer me truly--what
is your master's name?"

Lanciotto looked from her to Gonzaga, who stood by, a cynical curl on his sensual lips.

"Answer Monna Valentina," the courtier urged him. "State your master's true name and station."

"But, lady," began Lanciotto, bewildered.

"Answer me!" she stormed, her small clenched hands beating the table in harsh impatience. And
Lanciotto, seeing no help for it, answered:

"Messer Francesco del Falco, Count of Aquila."

Something that began in a sob and ended in a laugh burst from the lips of Valentina. Ercole's
eyes were wide at the news, and he might have gone the length of interposing a question, when
Gonzaga curtly bade him go to the armoury tower, and bring thence the soldier and the man Gonzaga
had left in his care.

"I will leave no shadow of doubt in your mind, Madonna," he said in explanation.

They waited in silence--for Lanciotto's presence hindered conversation--until Ercole returned
accompanied by the man-at-arms and Zaccaria, who had now changed his raiment. Before they could
question the new-comer, such questions as they might have put were answered by the greeting
that passed between him and his fellow-servant Lanciotto.

Gonzaga turned to Valentina. She sat very still, her tawny head bowed and in her eyes a look
of sore distress. And in that instant a brisk step sounded without. The door was thrust open,
and Francesco himself stood upon the threshold, with Peppe's alarmed face showing behind him.
Gonzaga instinctively drew back a pace, and his countenance lost some of its colour.

At sight of Francesco, Zaccaria rushed forward and bowed profoundly.

"My lord!" he greeted him.

And if one little thing had been wanting to complete the evidence against the Count, that thing,
by an odd mischance, Francesco himself seemed to supply. The strange group in that dining-room
claiming his attention, and the portentous air that hung about those present, confirmed the
warning Peppe had brought him that something was amiss. He disregarded utterly his servant's
greeting, and with eyes of a perplexity that may have worn the look of alarm he sought the
face of Valentina.

She rose upon the instant, an angry red colouring her cheeks. His very glance, it seemed, was
become an affront unbearable after what had passed--for the memory of his kiss bit like a poisoned
fang into her brain. An odd laugh broke from her. She made a gesture towards Francesco.

"Fortemani, you will place the Count of Aquila under arrest," she commanded, in a stern, steady
voice, "and as you value your life you will see that he does not elude you."

