  There was a Society Sinner
  Who no longer was asked out to dinner;
        This proof of his guilt
        So caused him to wilt
  That he's now emigrated to Pinner. Unfortunately "heavy" is here an epithet unkindly apt, since it
has to be admitted that the noble lord wields a pen rather philosophic than
popular, with the result that Before the War (CASSELL) tells a story of
the highest interest in a manner that can only be called ponderous. Our
ex-War Minister is, at least chiefly, responding to the literary offensives
of BETHMANN-HOLLWEG and TIRPITZ, in connection with whose books his should
be read, if the many references are properly to be understood. As every
reader will know, however, Lord HALDANE could hardly have delivered his
apologia before the accuser without the gates and not at the same time had
an eye on the critic within. Fortunately it is here no part of a reviewer's
task to obtrude his own political theories. With regard to the chief
indictment, of having permitted the country to be taken unawares, the
author betrays his legal training by a defence which is in effect (1) that
circumstances compelled our being so taken, and that (2) we weren't. On
this and other matter, however, the individual reader, having paid his
money (7s. 6d. net), remains at liberty to take his choice. One
revelation at least emerges clearly enough from Lord HALDANE'S pages--the
danger of playing diplomat to a democracy. "Extremists, whether Chauvinist
or Pacifist, are not helpful in avoiding wars" is one of many conclusions,
double-edged perhaps, to which he is led by retrospect of his own trials.
His book, while making no concessions to the modern demand for vivacity, is
one that no student of the War and its first causes can neglect.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is not Mr. L. COPE CORNFORD'S fault that his initials are identical with those of the London
County Council, nor do I consider it to be mine that his rather pontifical attitude towards
men and matters reminds me of that august body. Anyone ignorant of recent inventions might
be excused for thinking that The Paravane Adventure (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is the title of
a stirring piece of sensational fiction. But fiction it is not, though in some of its disclosures
it may be considered sensational enough. In this history of the invention of the Paravane Mr.
CORNFORD hurls a lot of well-directed bricks at Officialdom, and concludes his book by giving
us his frank opinion of the way in which the Navy ought to be run. It is impossible, even if
one does not subscribe to all his ideas, to refrain from commending the enthusiasm with which
he writes of those who, in spite of great difficulties, set to work to invent and perfect the
Paravane. If you don't know what a Paravane is I have neither the space nor the ability to
tell you; but Mr. CORNFORD has, and it's all in the book.

       *       *       *       *       *

A stray paragraph in a contemporary, to the effect that the portrait of the heroine and the
story of her life in Baroness VON HUTTEN'S Happy House (HUTCHINSON) is a transcript of actual
fact, saves me from the indiscretion of declaring that I found Mrs. Walbridge and her egregious
husband and the general situation at Happy House frankly incredible. Pleasantly incredible,
I should have added; and I rather liked the young man, Oliver, from Fleet Street, whom the
Great Man had recently made Editor of Sparks and who realised that he was destined to be a
titled millionaire, for is not that the authentic procedure? Hence his fanatical obstinacy
in wooing his, if you ask me, none too desirable bride. I hope I am not doing the author a
disservice in describing this as a thoroughly wholesome book, well on the side of the angels.
It has the air of flowing easily from a practised pen. But nothing will induce me to believe
that Mrs. Walbridge, putting off her Victorian airs, did win the prize competition with a novel
in the modern manner.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. ALEXANDER MACFARLAN'S new story, The Inscrutable Lovers (HEINEMANN), is not the first to
have what one may call Revolutionary Ireland for its background, but it is by all odds the
most readable, possibly because it is not in any sense a political novel. It is in characters
rather than events that the author interests himself. A highly refined, well-to-do and extremely
picturesque Irish revolutionary, whom the author not very happily christens Count Kettle, has
a daughter who secretly abhors romance and the high-falutin sentimentality that he and his
circle mistake for patriotism. To her father's disgust she marries an apparently staid and
practical young Scotch ship-owner, who at heart is a confirmed romantic. The circumstances
which lead to their marriage and the subsequent events which reveal to each the other's true
temperament provide the "plot" of The Inscrutable Lovers. Though slender it is original and
might lend itself either to farce or tragedy. Mr. MACFARLAN'S attitude is pleasantly analytical.
It is indeed his delightful air of remote criticism, his restrained and epigrammatic style
queerly suggestive of ROMAIN ROLAND in The Market Place, and his extremely clever portraiture,
rather than any breadth or depth appertaining to the story itself, that entitle the author
to a high place among the young novelists of to-day. Mr. MACFARLAN--is he by any chance the
Rev. ALEXANDER MACFARLAN?--may and doubtless will produce more formidable works of fiction
in due course; he will scarcely write anything smoother, more sparing of the superfluous word
or that offers a more perfect blend of sympathy and analysis.

       *       *       *       *       *

Susie (DUCKWORTH) is the story of a minx or an exposition of the eternal feminine according
to the reader's own convictions. I am not sure--and I suppose that places me among those who
regard her heroine as the mere minx--that the Hon. Mrs. DOWDALL has done well in expending
so much cleverness in telling Susie's story. Certainly those who think of marriage as a high
calling, for which the vocation is love, will be as much annoyed with her as was her cousin
Lucy, the idealist, at once the most amusing and most pathetic figure in the book. I am quite
sure that Susies and Lucys both abound, and that Mrs. DOWDALL knows all about them; but I am
not equally sure that the Susies deserve the encouragement of such a brilliant dissection.
Yet the men whose happiness she played with believed in Susie's representation of herself as
quite well-meaning, and other women who saw through her liked her in spite of their annoyance;
and--after all the other things I have said--I am bound, in sincerity, to admit that I liked
her too.

       *       *       *       *       *

