"'Well, now, friend Smooth,' he says: 'I like you, but the question you put so honestly has
a point which you cannot see, though I can painfully feel. However, as I have no secrets, I
don't mind telling you: it must be private, nevertheless--I am sensitive not to have these
matters spread all over the Union. To-night, you see, a conclave of political wranglers met
below, in this house. Conscious that they would have a large 'grin' at me, discussing the means
by which I have always been the rejected of this great and growing people, I came that my ears
might lesson of fools. To this end, I mounted the chimney, and was reconoitering down the black
abyss, when my eye turned and caught your light, like a star in tribulation, twinkling from
the window. Strange kind of a tribune for a senator, I admit, but I heard many judgments, and
from them may draw many more. One reckoned I had stamped with the cold hand of death my political
life; always wanting to fight somebody--the English in particular! Another said Virginia and
Pennsylvania couldn't approve of my policy--that it was too slow; while New York dare not vote
for me, and I was New England's dread. A third said he didn't believe the middle West would
back me up, because a doubt existed as to whether other States would. These sentiments I heard
from down chimney. My solemn belief is, that I have been sacrificed to a firm and honest belief
in the Monroe doctrine; which, singularly enough, had its origin in English minds. My efforts
to carry it into effect seemed not to form a tangible objection; though a voice now and then
said it might lead to evil consequences, England and France having formed a very unnatural
alliance to put down the aggressive spirit of nations, without respect to the side of the Atlantic
on which they were domiciled. Then, by way of a suspending clause, they said it was not so
much my pugnacious propensities they feared, as that, being an old fogy, full of personal grievances
against somebody, I would make the gratifying a venerable spleen paramount to the interests
of States (all this I heard from down chimney). That I was not a bad man, nor an inflexible
man, they all agreed; but that my time was passed was their verdict, and being passed, I would
myself soon pass into political oblivion--nothing being left but executive expectations and
ballet-boxes, with which I might build on high a monument! The trouble is, friend Smooth, I
am not possessed of the tact of making the nation understand me; had I this all-necessary to
political fame, the Chief Magistracy had long since been mine. To me the free press of our
country is a sort of infernal machine,--its effect in my case strengthens the idea. Having
held me up as dangerous, when in truth I am a peaceably disposed man, they have wronged me
while misinforming the public.' Here he paused, as his face assumed its wonted seriousness,
and that wart, now historical, looked brighter than ever. I had long been desirous of scraping
acquaintance with the old man, whom I esteemed much better inside than out, so I offered him
half of my shingle, at the same time intimating that we would have some whiskey. At this he
lowered his voice, and continued with a slow shake of the head:--'I'm not so bad as I seem.
Peradventure I wanted a small chance at the Britishers. I hate them, but that only signifies
a trifle. Mr. Pierce, like a horn lantern for which Uncle Caleb and Jeff furnish the light,
is fast getting affairs into a fuzzle; this must be so while the light is thus furnished, and
the regulation of its burning be left to Grandpapa Marcy. Fact is, you see, Mr. Smooth, the
administration is become like a steam-engine, Mr. Pierce being used as a piston by Caleb, Jeff,
and Co., who, in addition, furnish Southern-rights for fuel, use patronage as a condenser,
and make a safety valve of Papa Marcy. But Papa has yet to take many lessons in National Engineering
before his control over the machine is complete.' I watched the old man's anxious eye as he
spoke; and again suggested the taking a little whiskey: I pitied him. 'It will set ye all right!'
says I, 'it'll take the fogyism all out, warm up yer inards, and make yer ideas come out with
the philosophy of a Mara beau. Mr. Pierce loves to traffic in the language of war, but like
all little creatures, makes his noise and stops.'

"'Well, in obedience to my friendship for you, Smooth--and with the knowledge that you are
going into business with Uncle Sam--appreciating the 'Young American' party as I do, I don't
care if I take. It may revive the hope of 1856. After all, there is something in you New Englanders
I like--give us yer hand,' he replied suddenly, as a soft smile spread over his hard face.
He commenced wiping his lips, and was so polite. I rang the bell, and up came the negro, his
face as full of alarm as a frightened moon in a hail-storm. Alarmed at his appearance, the
General sprang to his feet, and was for bolting through the window. 'Don't be scared, General!'
says I, trying to suppress a laugh; 'put on the pluck of Young America--niggers then will seem
as nothing.' Mr. Pierce pursues this course. General knows it takes somebody to cut a figure
in the world; and seeing that these United States constitute a free country, what violation
of principle is there in doing with negroes what you please? The steaming punch now awaited
us; I filled the General's glass, and he said 'this was a great country, which would soon send
Young America out on the world to proclaim manifest destiny.' I said amen, and the punch disappeared
into his depot, as he concluded. It was clear his inards warmed, he beginning to brighten up
soon after. With a laconic air, he touched me on the elbow, and said, 'Somehow, it seems to
touch the right place--I declare it does! I am half inclined to the belief that General Pierce
sups formidably of this just before he talks about winding things up in a straight sort of
way, all of which he ultimately forgets: the influence of this sort of steam was undoubtedly
that which selected Minister Solan Borland the man for Central America. It was not that friend
Solan went to settle perplexing questions with that dwarf combination of helpless governments;
it was enough that he amused sundry citizens and much annoyed others with the little fracases
which, through the power of political steam, he was wont to indulge in.'

"'Now, Uncle Cass!' said I, interrupting him, at the same time adding a good-natured wink,
'you must excuse Smooth's seeming intrusiveness; but, what do you think of annexation in general,
and filibustering and taking Cuba in particular?' At this, the General gave a knowing pause,
scratched his head as if it was troubled with something, and then replied with much dryness:
'Ah! the one is a subject popular to-day, the other is fast becoming so: when both are equally
popular, we may advocate them with safety. Mr. Pierce understands this policy. That which is
popular and holds out advantages must go down in our go-ahead country. According to the axiom
of our Southern doctrines we must have Cuba: she must be wedded in political bonds to Cape
Florida; not for the purpose of consolidating niggerdom, but merely to complete in that direction
the point of manifest destiny.'

"'Lord love yer political faith, General!' said I, rising up and taking him firmly by the hand.

"'Ye'll do for the Young America, that ye will! There'll be no more old-fogyism--no more of
the slow-coach school! Take another bumper, and you'll be ripe for the new party.' The General,
with less dignity than you might have supposed him capable of condescending to, filled his
glass, drew his chair back, threw his square figure well over the arms, and roared right out
until it became dangerous. At length he began to drink his whiskey, and that stopped his joy
for a time. But he soon broke out afresh. 'What on earth is the matter with you, stranger?
you ain't going to make a shaking machine of your broad sides, be ye?' says I, giving him a
look that would have pierced a stone wall.

"'You must excuse me, Mr. Smooth, but the principles of your party would make anybody laugh;
why!--its sprouting members are all growing out of their breeches. Where, in that stretchy
imagination the party possesses, can you find a place for the moon, which of necessity must
follow in the train of annexation?' he inquires seriously.

"'Put it? Why, Gineral, you have been stowed away so long, keeping dog-watch over fogyism,
that you don't comprehend how Uncle Sam has been transformed into a go-ahead chap to suit the
times. Consul Saunders 'll bridge the Gulf Stream, and thus unite Cuba and Cape Florida; and,
his pockets well lined with letter-writing materials, be first to march over it and proclaim
manifest destiny to the natives. As for the moon, George will find a place in the compact for her.'

"'But, Mr. Smooth,' says he, 'what in the name of changes be you going to do with so many little
kingdoms? A thousand years will scarcely people our present domain! Now, Smooth, I'll cut out
a small job for the Young American party:--let them, just to give a specimen of their principles,
step across to Europe and help Louis and Uncle John (I hate John, though) whip Nicholas, and
turn vacillating, faithless Austria into a republic, with principle and spirit equal to her
position as a nation.' The General looked serious as he concluded--so far as whipping Austria
was concerned we would be only too glad did she for once throw off her cowardice and afford
us an opportunity. She had long played at thimblerig with doty old Mr. John Bull, before whose
eyes she had placed the spectacles of fantasy, the changes of which the poor old gentleman's
very refined sense and undeniable diplomacy had not permitted him to comprehend. Austria was
like the thief who set himself up as umpire to settle between two knaves of his own cloth,
and, while he gave advice to both, was securing to himself the very plunder which gave rise
to the dispute. Nicholas, John Bull said, was a ruffian of the go-ahead school; but, of the
three ruffians, which shall we choose? history may be the teacher! Ruffians, however, may do
good at times, in which sense Nicholas was entitled to more consideration than Mister Bull,
in his frenzy, was willing to accord. Thus saying, the General and me took another glass, shook
hands, and bowed most politely. Again I stretched myself down for the night, as he (promising
to call again and have another talk) disappeared out of the window.

CHAPTER IV.

MR. SMOOTH'S DREAM.

"Leaving Cass holding on at the slippery roof. I dreamed that the ghost of Benton, in contemplation
bestrode the summit of the Rocky Mountains; that 'Young America,' like a Colossus with monster
limbs stretched across a world, was endeavouring to wake from their stupor the nations. With
a voice like unto lazy thunder murmuring in the distance was he proclaiming his hatred of kings,
into whose dominions he threatened to march great armies, and whom he described as curses sent
upon the earth by the evil one: for the Evil One sought to promote self, a means to which he
found in those intrigues by which he made strong his court--the same was the trade of kings.
Again the voice thundered forth--'Here are the instruments that have destroyed a world of human
beings, and for a selfish purpose gloated over the blood they had made run in torrents.' I
looked, and behold! appeared there before me a terrible devil, of hideous form having two great
horns, on one of the long sharp points of which was poised a king, on the other a fat bishop
in his lawn. The two perpetual mischief-makers, and desolators thus poised, he came with a
hideous roar, threatening to drown them in the river of unrefined common sense. And then there
was written in broad letters of fire across the shoulders of this sturdy devil--'Kingcraft
and Churchcraft have cursed the nations of the earth, and turned to blight the blessings of
the True God!' Again this significant edict vanished, and in its place there came, as in letters
of gold, 'Cheap Government and no Established Church--let the nations be ruled in wisdom and
right!' This had reference to good old England, not America, for here bishops are known to
be meek and good. All this was a dream: but then there came, soaring giant-like, 'Young America,'
and manifest destiny which he spread over the land for the benefit of mankind. Then there came
a great darkness, followed by a little light that crept feebly onward as if fearing to spread
itself on the broad disc of the horoscope--it was the light of Mr. Pierce, beneath which hovered
doubtful devils. How rapacious they seemed! They saw the doubts and fears of his little light,
and would fain carry him off into purgatory ere it died out. But his saviours came: they were
the ghosts of those great lights that founded the pillars of our Republicanism. Down they sat,
in ghostly conclave, and with instruments in hand set about driving away the carrier devils
and working the problem of Mr. Pierce's political policy. It was impossible!--not all the trigonometry
of which they were masters sufficed to aid them in the task. It seemed like attempting to solve
the principle of that which never had one. He stood on a platform of sections, each of which
turned at a touch, and seemed giving way for want of strength. Indeed, as beheld in the dream,
he could play the game of uncertainty through a dozen focuses. The jury of ghosts became sorely
perplexed; then they began to put to him some very honest questions, as to what his intentions
really were. And while doing this the spirit of Washington, arrayed in glory, looked down upon
its feeble successor, and with an ironical smile shook its head.

"Then there came an unaccented voice from the little light--the light said to be the impersonation
of Pierce; indeed, it was of kindred with the shadow in that singular romance by Hawthorn,
called the life of Pierce! And the voice said:--'I shall be known by my practice.' Just then
the little light became dimmer, and turned away toward a long dark avenue, where the vista
seemed studded with the faces of disconsolate 'niggers.' At this the ghost of Webster yawned,
and that of Calhoun scowled fiercely and contemptuously; while Clay's rubbed its eyes and wept
tears of pity. Again all was darkness. Then there came again the little light of which I have
spoken;--it was the light of Mr. Pierce. It flickered and fluttered, and thus we identified
it. 'We have to deal with Europe--with that happy alliance my very amiable Lord Clarendon says
is for purposes not alone in Europe. My lord's language, however, is so cleverly diplomatic--that
is, it can be made to mean anything or nothing,--as to need a translation. My lord means, that
when it has served to curb the national ambition of certain nations of Europe it may be turned
to the same purpose in another but more congenial hemisphere. Kossuth wants material aid--such
as saddles, tin, &c. &c. I would give it him, if he would teach Austria a lesson of honesty!
Nevertheless, as to Louis himself I would be extremely cautious, for being more a blower than
a moulder, and having a peculiar talent for getting affairs very crooked, the instrument in
the man is of questionable ability;--indeed, in a crisis between nations, such an instrument
should he examined with great skill and delicacy before being set in motion.' He spoke after
this manner, and quick as thought the spectacle vanished--it was but a dream? Not a ghost was
seen; no lurid face cast its pale shadow over the dark canvas; the pure spirit of Washington
had departed in hopeless despair. I was about to read a prayer, when the dark canvas moved
aside, and there, real as life, sat on a slave's grave the immaculate Brigadier;--he, reader,
was sipping whiskey toddy, as if it were his wont. Old Bunkum was the slave whose grave he
sat upon. It was a strange penance over the mound of one so old; and yet who in the political
world that had not paid it? 'Why!--Bunkum, you are barefoot;' a voice spoke.

"'Remember, old man, you must keep on the stiff,--it's as necessary to success as it was to
believe the old Constitution frigate could whip anything afloat.' It was the General who spoke
to the ghost of Bunkum, who, having risen from the grave, stood before him, moody and despairing.
In ecstasy he grasped the hand of the cold figure cried out that his soul's love was with him.
But in his exuberance he let the whiskey run over the green grave, into which the ghost soon
disappeared and left him alone to his contemplations. Bunkum, like Billy Bowlegs, who has too
much sense for the great father, says he has wandered through all weathers, and endured all
kinds of political farcery: now that he had become old, and served as long as the god of sacrifice,
would they not let him rest in peace? Here the General seemed alone and forlorn: then he wept
bitterly, until the ghost of Bunkum in pity again appeared and with him sat upon the grave.
The General kindly took him by the hand, and in his ear whispered something, the only part
of which became audible was--'When as President of this great country I became, I was bound--'
Here the man paused. A kindlier feeling now came over Bunkum, in evidence of which he motioned
as if he would take another drop of whiskey with the President, or ask a favor he was delicate
about broaching. For a man who had so long looked upon things beneath him his reserve was to
be appreciated, especially when viewed in comparison with the expectations of those many numerous
friends, all of whom expected foreign missions. Having chatted and sipped together a sufficient
length of time, and as Bunkum was about to say good by, he turned with a half significant smile,
and touching the General on the elbow, said:--'Ye ain't got a spare hat and pea-jacket to lend
a body?'

"'Bless you, Bunkum, you are of the South!--anything you want is at your bidding. New England
(she's a trump!) can take care of herself; let the storm threaten as it may, she never trips.
We must do for Kentuck and Carolina:--the black pig must have his swill if the rest find an
empty trough.' 'Thank you! thank you! General; our States will stand firm to you--Bunkum himself
never will forsake you;' spoke thus thankfully the ghost of the old man as it took leave of
the old General and disappeared. Here I awoke from my dream to painful reflections.

CHAPTER V.

A MORNING ADVENTURE.

"As Uncle Sam is equally careless of his language and cash, he will excuse a crooked beginning
and accept a straight ending. Contemplating my crooked dream I confess I waked up without a
straight idea in my head. The fact was, I was waked up with such an incomprehensible jingling,
ringing, rumbling, and gonging, that I mistook its purport, and thought the Russians were bombarding
the house. I was about looking out of the window to see if the White House was all safe, when
a negro with a countenance blacker than vengeance protruded his fizzy head into the door, and
without a morsel of knocking commenced grinning. 'Anything wanted for Major Smooth?' inquires
he; and without waiting for an answer, catches up the bed, Smooth and all the fixins, and set
them somewhat aside. 'Not so fast, Cuff!' said I; 'Smooth is no Major--plain Mister Smooth
from the Cape.'

"'Lor, Mas'r' replied the negro, interrupting me; 'when in Washington t'wont do to be a mite
less than a Major-General. Every man what come to dis city widout his title better come widout
himself. Our clerk what stand at the hogany counter be a General,--Jones, the ostler, be a
Colonel; and Wilkes what keep the oyster shop ober yonder be a Major! As for Captains, they
are as thick and of as little use as blackbirds. Will you take somethin?' The sagacious negro
bowed, and waited for a reply. I told him that being invited to a fish breakfast with the General
at the 'White House,' I would forbear to liquor until I had made my bow.

"'S'pose you'll take the customary gin cock-tail, Mr. Smooth?' the negro rejoined, with an
anxious air. Evincing my surprise at such a proposition, I assured him I did not know its meaning.
'Don't know what it is!' he exclaimed, with a deep sigh. 'A very fashionable drink,' he continued;
'gemmen what see de General, and study national affairs, all take some on em in da mornin.'

"'Now, Cuff,' I rejoined, 'just tell the truth; you mean that in order to keep the dignity
up, it is necessary to take something stiff in the mornin?'

"'Dat him, mas'r,' says he in reply, accompanying it with a broad guffaw. 'When mas'r bin to
de White House, and seem serious, as if he ain't got what he want, he put a cock-tail down
to make de glorious come up; it be a great anecdote for what mas'r call de blues.' The interpretation
of what the negro said was that it made a man feel as if he had the best office in Mr. Pierce's
gift safe in his pocket. Having a reasonable appreciation of a negro's statement, I consented
on the ground of its good qualities--thus represented--to take a little. The negro left, but
soon returned with it in his hand--all bittered and iced. Down it went, plump!--it cut away
the cobwebs, made my inards fizzle, and the whole frame feel as lively as a bee-hive. The negro
said it was good--and I said I reckoned. And then I 'turned out,' as they call it, broadside
on. 'Great kingdom,' exclaimed the negro, giving me a slanting look from head to foot; 'why,
mas'r, dey must a growed ye in a guano country.'

"'Cuff! don't be sassy,' I replied. And then he very good-naturedly commenced arranging my
homespun. He fussed over me as if I were a mere substance to be transformed into anything Mr.
Pierce might require. Then, to my utter astonishment, he apprised me of the fact of General
Cass having carried off my boots and breeches--adding that it was a sort of mania with him,
and for which he was not morally accountable. Then the negro began quizzing my person. One
of my legs, he said, was hard shell, the other a soft shell; however, to reconcile the matter,
he further added that the embodiment was exactly suited to Mr. Pierce's principles, inasmuch
as he could go between--which he always aimed to do. He then said I must have pantaloons of
the right stripe; because in Washington a man must look genteel, and have his understandings
straight. It was no excuse that the General himself was an undecided Democrat; if he was round
in some things, he was square in others,--that is he was round in policy, and square in periods.
The Negro said he did not look so much at the cut of the pantaloons as the quality of the cloth,
and its tenacity for stretching--according to the expectations of the 'Young American' party.

