[Footnote 13: Kuhn, in Haupt's Zeitschrift für deutsches Alterthum, v. 472. The idea of a northern
myth will of course excite the alarm of all sensible, patriotic Englishmen, (e.g. Mr. Hunter,
at page 3 of his tract,) and the bare suggestion of Woden will be received, in the same quarters,
with an explosion of scorn. And yet we find the famous shot of Elgill, one of the mythical
personages of the Scandinavians, (and perhaps to be regarded as one of the forms of Woden,)
attributed in the ballad of Adam Bel to William of Cloudesly, who may be considered as Robin
Hood under another name.]

[Footnote: 14. Unless importance is to be attached to the consideration that May is the Virgin's
month.]

[Footnote 15: As in Tollett's window.]

[Footnote 16: In Lord Hailes's Extracts from the Book of the Universal Kirk.]

[Footnote 17: More openly exhibited in the mock battle between Summer and Winter celebrated
by the Scandinavians in honor of May, a custom still retained in the Isle of Man, where the
month is every year ushered in with a contest between the Queen of Summer and the Queen of
Winter. (Brand's Antiquities, by Ellis, i. 222, 257.) A similar ceremony in Germany, occurring
at Christmas, is noticed by Kuhn, p. 478.]

[Footnote 18: Hence the spring begins with March. The connection with Mars suggests a possible
etymology for the Morris,--which is usually explained, for want of something better, as a Morisco
or Moorish dance. There is some resemblance between the Morris and the Salic dance. The Salic
games are said to have been instituted by the Veian king Morrius, a name pointing to Mars,
the divinity of the Salli.--Kuhn, 488-493.]

[Footnote 19: The name Robin also appears to Kuhn worthy of notice, since the horseman in the
May pageant is in some parts of Germany called Ruprecht (Rupert, Robert).]

[Footnote 20: Edinburgh Review, vol. 86, p. 123.]

[Footnote 21: See some sensible remarks in the Gentleman's Magazine for March, 1793, by D.
H., that is, says the courteous Ritson, by Gough, "the scurrilous and malignant editor of that
degraded publication."]

THE GHOST REDIVIVUS.

One of those violent, though shortlived storms, which occasionally rage in southern climates,
had blown all night in the neighborhood of the little town of San Cipriano, situated in a wild
valley of the Apennines opening towards the sea. Under the olive-woods that cover those steep
hills lay the olive-berries strewed thick and wide; here and there a branch heavy-laden with
half-ripe fruit, torn by the blast from its parent tree, stretched its prostrate length upon
the ground. An abundant premature harvest had fallen, but at present there were no means of
collecting it; for the deluging rains of the night had soaked the ground, the grass, the dead
leaves, the fruit itself, and the rain was still falling heavily. If gathered in that state,
the olives are sure to rot.

"Pazienza!" in such disasters exclaim the inhabitants of the Riviera, with a melancholy shrug
of the shoulders. And they needs must have patience until the weather clears and the ground
dries, before they can secure such of the olives as may happily be uninjured.

On the day we speak of, the 21st of December, 1852, the proprietors of olive-grounds in San
Cipriano wore very blank faces; they talked sadly of the falling prices of the fruit and oil,
and the olive-pickers crossed their hands and looked vacantly at the gray sky.

In the spacious kitchen of Doctor Morani were assembled a body of young rosy lasses in laced
bodices, and short, bright-colored petticoats, come down from the neighboring mountains for
the olive-gathering, much as Irish laborers cross over to England for the hay-making season.
These girls arrive in troops from their native villages among the hills, carrying on their
heads a sackful of the flour of dried beans and a lesser quantity of dried chestnuts. They
offer their services to the inhabitants of the valley at the rate of four pence English a day;
about three pence less than the sum demanded by the women of the place. But the pretty mountaineers
ask, in addition to their modest wages, a shelter for the night, a little straw or hay for
their beds, and a small daily portion of oil and salt to season the bean-flour and chestnuts,
which constitute their sole food. They are then perfectly contented.

The old Doctor had hired several of these damsels to assist in getting in his olive crop, with
the customary additional compact to spin some of the unwrought flax of the household when bad
weather prevented their out-of-door work, as well as regularly in the evening between early
dusk and bed-time. Happy those to whose lot it fell to be employed by Dr. Morani! Besides not
beating down their wages to the utmost, it was the Doctor's wont, out of the exuberance of
a warm-hearted, joyous nature, unchilled even by his sixty winters, to give to his serving
men and maidens not only kind words and encouraging looks, but also what made him perhaps still
more popular, humorous jokes and droll stories.

The Doctor, indeed, concealed something of the philosopher under the garb of a wag. His quaint
sayings and doings were frequently quoted with great relish among this rural population. He
had a way of his own of shooting facts and truths into the uncultivated understandings of these
laborers,--facts and truths that never otherwise could have penetrated so far; he feathered
his philosophical or moral arrows with a jest, and they stuck fast.

Signora Martina, his wife, was a good soul, and, though a strict housewife, was yet not so
thrifty but that she could allow a little of her abundance to overflow on those in her service;
and these crumbs from her table added many delicious bits to the bean-flour repasts. So, as
we have said, happy the mountain girls taken into Dr. Morani's service! But specially blest
among the blest this year were two sisters, to whom was allotted a bed, a real bed, to sleep
upon! How came they to be furnished with such a luxury? Why, this season the Doctor had hired
more than the usual number of pickers. The outbuilding given them to sleep in was thus too
small to accommodate all, so two were taken into the house, and a diminutive closet, generally
used by the family as a bath-room, was turned into a bed-room for the lucky couple. Now for
a description of the bed. Over the bath was placed an ironing-board, and upon this a mattress
quite as narrow, almost as hard, and far less smooth than the narrow plank on which it lay.
The width of the bed was just sufficient to admit the two sisters, packed close, each lying
on her side. As to turning, that was simply out of the question; but "poor labor in sweet slumber
lock'd" lay from night till morning without once dreaming of change of position.

Signora Martina, the first day or two, expressed some fear lest they might not rest well; but
both girls averred they never in their lives had known so luxurious a bed,--and never should
again, unless their good fortune brought them back another year to enjoy this sybarite couch
at Dr. Morani's.

Though irrelevant to our story, this short digression may serve to illustrate the Arcadian
simplicity of habits prevailing in these mountainous districts, and affords one more illustration
of the axiom, not more trite than true, that human enjoyment and luxury are all comparative.

Well! the wet afternoon was wearing on, beguiled by the young girls as best it might be, with
the spindle and distaff, and incessant chatter and laugh, save when they joined their voices
in some popular chant. Signora Martina was delivering fresh flax to the spinners; Marietta,
the maid, was busy about the fire, in provident forethought for supper; and Beppo, a barefooted,
weather-beaten individual, was bringing in the wood he had been sawing this rainy day, which
interfered with his more usual business at that season. For Beppo was one of the men whose
task it was to climb the olive-trees and shake down the olives for the women gathering below.
He was distinguished among many as a skilful and valiant climber; nor had his laurels been
earned without perils and wounds. Occasionally he fell, and occasionally broke a bone or two,--episodes
that had their compensation. Beppo, then, on this particular rainy afternoon, came in with
a flat basket full of newly cut wood on his head, respectfully saluted the Padrona, and, after
throwing down his load in a corner of the kitchen, leisurely turned his basket topsy-turvy,
seated himself upon it, and prepared to take his part in the general conversation.

At this moment the Doctor himself entered, his cloak and hat dripping.

"Heugh! heugh!" he exclaimed, in a voice of disgust, as his wife helped him out of his covering;
"what weather!"  He went towards the fire, and spread out his hands to catch the heat of the
glowing embers, on which sat a saucepan. "Horrid weather! The wind played the very mischief
with us last night!"

"Many branches broken, Padrone?"  asked Beppo, eagerly.

"Branches, eh? Aye, aye; saw away; burn away; don't be afraid of a supply failing," said the
Doctor, dryly.

"Oh, Santa Maria!" sighed Signora Martina, in sad presentiment.

"Plenty of firewood, my dear soul, for two years," went on the Doctor. "The big tree near the
pigeon-house is head down, root up, torn, smashed, prostrate, while good-for-nothing saplings
are standing."

"Oh Lord! such a tree! that never failed, bad year or good year, to give us a sack of olives,
and often more!" cried Signora Martina, piteously. "More than three generations old it was!"
And she began actually to weep. "Oil selling for nothing, and the tree, the best of trees,
to be blown down!"

"Take care," said the Doctor, "take care of repining! Little misfortunes are like a rash, which
carries off bad humors from a too robust body. Suppose the storm had laid my head low, and
turned up my toes; what then, eh, little girls?"  turning to the group of young creatures standing
with their eyes very wide open at the recital of the misdeeds of the turbulent wind, and now
as suddenly off into a laugh at the image of the Doctor's decease so represented. "Ah! you
giggling set! Happy you that have no branches to be broken, and no olive-pickers to pay! Per
Bacco! you are well off, if you only knew it!"

He walked over to where his weeping wife sat, laid his hand on her head, and stooping, kissed
her brow. The girls laughed again.

"Be quiet, all of you! Do you think that only smooth brows and bright cheeks ought to be kissed?
Be good loving wives, and I promise you your husbands will be blind to your wrinkles. I could
not be happy without the sight of this well-known face; it is the record of happiness for me.
I wish you all our luck, my dears!"

All simpered or laughed, and Martina's brow smoothed.

"Now I see that I can still make you smile at misfortune," continued the Doctor, "I will tell
you something comforting. As I came along, I met Paolo, the olive-merchant, who offered me
a franc more a sack than he did to any one else, because he knows our olives are of a superior
quality."

Signora Martina smiled rather a grim smile at this compliment to her olives.

"But I told him," went on Doctor Morani, with a certain look of pride, "that we were not going
to sell; we intended to make oil for ourselves. And so we will, Martina, with the olives that
have been blown down, hoping the best for those still on the trees. Now let us talk of something
more pleasant. Pasqualina, suppose you tell us a story; you are our best hand, I believe."

"I am sure, Signor Dottore, I have nothing worth your listening to," answered Pasqualina, blushing.

"Tell us about the ghost your uncle saw," suggested another of the girls.

"A ghost!" cried the Doctor. "Any one here seen a ghost? I wish I could have such a chance!
What was it like?"

"I did not see it myself; I do but believe what my uncle told me," said Pasqualina, with a
gravity that had a shade of resentment.

"If one is only to speak of what one has seen," urged the prompter of the uncle's ghost-story,
"tell the Padrone of the witch that bewitched your sister."

"Ah! and so we have witches too?"  groaned the Doctor.

"As to that," resumed Pasqualina, with a dignified look, "I can't help believing my own eyes,
and those of all the people of our village."

"Well," exclaimed Doctor Morani, "let us hear all about the witch."

"You know, all of you," said Pasqualina, "what bad fits my sister had, and how she was cured
by the miraculous Madonna del Laghetto. So my sister had no more fits, till Madalena, a spiteful
old woman, and whom everybody in the village knows to be a witch, mumbled some of her spells
and----"

"Hallo!" cried the Doctor, "do you mean that witches have more power than the Madonna?"

"Oh! Signor Dottore, you put things so strangely! just listen to the truth. So this old woman
came and mumbled some of her spells, and then my poor sister fell down again, and has since
had fits as bad as ever. But my father and brother were not going to take it so easily, and
they beat the bad old witch till she couldn't move, and had to be carried to the hospital.
I hope she may die, with all my heart I do!"

"You had better hope she will get well," observed the Doctor, coolly; "for if she should happen
to die, my good Pasqualina, it would be very possible that your father and brother might be
sent to the galleys."

Here Pasqualina set up a howl.

"Do not afflict yourself just now," resumed Doctor Morani; "for, with all their good-will,
they have not quite killed the woman. I saw her myself at the hospital; she is getting better,
and when cured, I shall take care that she does not return among such a set of savages as flourish
in your village, Signorina Pasqualina. Excuse my boldness,"--and the Doctor took off his skull-cap,
in playful obeisance to the young girl,--"only advise your family another time to be less ready
with their hands and their belief in every species of absurdity. Did not Father Tommaso tell
you but yesterday, that it was not right to believe in ghosts or witches, save and except the
peculiar one or two it is his business to know about, and who lived some thousand years ago?
There have been none since, believe me."

"Strange things do happen, however," observed Signora Martina, thoughtfully,--"things that
neither priest nor lawyer can explain. What was that thing which appeared, twenty years ago,
on the tower of San Ciprano?" The Signora's voice sent a shudder through all the women present.

"A trick, and a stupid trick," persisted her husband.

"Not at all a trick, Doctor," said Martina, shaking her head.

"Did you see it yourself, Martina?"

"No; but I saw those who did with their own two blessed eyes."

"The Padrona is quite right," said Beppo, without leaving his basket. "I, for one, saw it."

This assertion produced such a hubbub as sent the Doctor growling from the room, and left Signora
Martina at liberty to comply with the general petition for the story.

"It was twenty-five years last Easter since Hans Reuter came to San Cipriano with Carlo Boschi,
the son of old Pietro, of our town. Carlo had gone away three years before to seek his fortune.
He went to Switzerland, it seems, a distant country beyond the mountains, where the language
is different from ours, and where it is said"--(here Martina lowered her voice)--"the people
do not follow our holy religion, and are called, therefore, Protestants and heretics. They
are industrious, notwithstanding, and clever in certain arts and manufactures, and it was from
some of them that Carlo learned the watchmaking trade. After staying away three years, one
fine day he came back, bringing with him one of these Swiss, Hans Reuter; and the two, being
great friends, set up a shop together, where they made and sold watches and jewelry. There
was not business enough in San Cipriano to maintain them, but they made it out by selling at
wholesale in the neighboring towns.

"For years all went smoothly with the partners, and their good luck began to be wondered at,
when one morning their shop was not open at the usual hour. What was the matter? what had happened?
there was Carlo Boschi knocking and shouting to Hans, and all in vain. I must tell you that
Carlo lived elsewhere, and Hans had the care of the premises at night, sleeping in a little
room at the back of the shop. The neighbors went out and advised Carlo to force the door. Very
well. When they got in, they found Hans bound hand and foot, and so closely gagged that he
was almost stifled. As soon as he could speak, he said that just after he had shut up the previous
evening, there was a knock at the door. He had scarcely opened it, when he was seized by two
ruffians with blackened faces, who threw him down, gagged and tied him, and then coolly proceeded
to ransack every place, packed up every bit of jewelry, every watch, and every piece of money,
and then decamped with their booty, locking the door on the outside. The robbery took place
on the third and last day of the Easter Fair, exactly when there was the greatest noise and
bustle from the breaking up of booths, such an uproar of singing, brawling, and rolling of
carts, and such a stream of people going in every direction, as made it easy for the thieves
to escape detection. The police took a great many depositions, and made a great fuss; but there
the matter ended.

"To say the truth, it was like looking for a bird in a forest, considering the number of strangers
who had attended the fair; besides, the police, you know, at that time, were too busy dogging
and hunting down Liberals to care for tracking only thieves. That, however, is no business
of mine or yours; and perhaps it would have done no good to poor Hans, even if the criminals
had been discovered. He had got a great shock; he could not recover his spirits. Every one
felt for him, because he was a kind, sociable man, as well as industrious; the only fault he
had was being a Protestant. What that was no one exactly knew; but it was a great sin and a
great pity, it seems. Sure it is that Hans never went to confession, or to the communion. However,
as time passed and brought no tidings of the robbers, the poor man grew more thin and careworn
every day. He would talk for hours about Switzerland, about his own village, his father's house,
his parents and relations. He had left them so thoughtlessly, he said, he had scarcely felt
a regret; yet now a yearning grew within him to look once more upon those dear faces, and the
verdant mountains of his country,--upon its cool, rushing streams, wide, green pastures, and
the cows that grazed on them. He used to tell us, that, when he was alone, he heard their bells
in the distance, and they seemed to call him home. My husband did not like all this, and said
Hans ought to go at once, or it would be too late. But Hans delayed and delayed, in the hope
of recovering some of his stolen property, till one day he was taken very ill and had to be
carried to the hospital. The Doctor attended him two or three times every day, and on the third
was summoned in a great hurry. Morani went and had a long conversation with the poor dying
fellow, and then Padre Michele of the Capuchin Convent was sent for. It was some time before
the good monk could be found, and then it took still longer, he being old and very infirm,
before he could get to the hospital. When he did, it was too late; poor Hans was dead.

"This was a sad business; for, if the Padre had come in time, at all events Hans's soul would
have been safe, and his body buried in consecrated ground. My husband went to the Rector and
told his Reverence that Hans had renounced his errors, and had made a full profession of the
Catholic faith to him; but his Reverence shook his head, and said that was not the same thing
as if Padre Michele had received Hans into the true fold. Then my husband said it was a pity
Hans should suffer because the Padre had been out of the way; but his Reverence always answered,
'No,' and so 'No' it was. The clergy were not to attend, and the body was to be put into the
ground just as you might bury a dog. What could my husband do more? So he went his way to his
patients. It happened that he had to see several, far in the country, and so did not come home
till late at night.

"You all know the tower which stands upon the green knoll high above the town. It is a relic
of very old times, when San Cipriano had fortifications. It has been a ruin for more than a
century,--a mere shell, open to the sky, encircling a wide space of ground. A few days before
Hans's death, the Doctor had taken it into his head he would like to hire this tower of the
municipality, to which it belongs, to make a garden within its walls. He had been to examine
the place a week previous, and had brought home the key of the gate, being determined to take
it. Now this very day after Hans died, and while my husband was away on his round of country
visits, the Syndic sent to ask for the key, and I, thinking no harm, gave it. And now what
do you think the Syndic wanted the key for? Just to dig a hole for poor Hans. Yes, the body
was carried up there, and buried out of sight as quickly as possible.

"When the Doctor came home he was in a mighty passion with everybody;--with the Rector, for
refusing Hans a place in the burial-ground; with the Syndic, for allowing the tower to be used
for such a purpose; and most of all with me, for giving the key without asking why or wherefore.

"However, what was done could not be undone, and so no more was said about the matter. It might
have been a week after, when some girls who had set out before daylight to go to the wood for
leaves, came back much terrified, declaring they had seen an apparition on the tower wall.
Not one had dared to go on to the wood, but all ran back to the town and spread the alarm.
A dozen persons, at least, came to our house to tell us about it, and I promise you my husband
did not call it a stupid trick, as he did today. He looked very grave, and exclaimed, 'I don't
wonder at it. No doubt it is poor Hans, who does not like to lie in unconsecrated ground. Don't
come to me,--it's none of my business,--I have only to do with the living,--the dead belong
to the clergy,--this is the Rector's affair. If ever a ghost had a right to walk, it is in
such a case as this, when a poor, honest fellow is denied Christian burial because an old monk's
legs refuse to carry him fast enough. Had Padre Michele been a younger man, all would have
been right.'

"There was quite a general commotion in the town, and at last, after a day or two, some of
the young men determined they would go and watch the next night, to see if the thing appeared,
or if it was mere women's nonsense, and they went accordingly."

"I was one of the party," interrupted Beppo, taking the narrative out of his Padrona's mouth,
stirred by the high-wrought excitement of his recollections. "I went with ten others, and I
had a good loaded gun with me. We hid ourselves behind some bushes, and watched and watched.
Nothing appeared, until the girls, who had agreed to come at their usual hour for going to
the wood, passed by; then, just at that moment, I swear I saw it. I felt all,--I can't tell
how,--a sort of hot cold, and as if my legs were water. I don't know how I managed to raise
my gun,--I did it quite dreaming like; it went off with the biggest noise ever a gun made,
and the bullet must have gone through the very head of the ghost, for it waved its thin arms
fearfully. All the rest ran away, but I could not move a peg. Then a terrible voice roared
out, 'I shall not forget thee, my friend! I will visit thee again before thy last hour! Now
begone!'"

Beppo ceased speaking, and a shuddering silence fell on the listeners. Martina alone ventured
on the awe-struck whisper of "What was it like, Beppo?"

"A tall, white figure; its arms spread out like a cross,--so," replied Beppo, rising from his
basket, the better to personate the ghost. "Jesu Maria!" he shrieked, "there it is! O Lord,
have mercy on us!"

And sure enough, standing against the door was a tall, white figure, its arms spread out like
the limbs of a cross. Screams, both shrill and discordant, filled the room,--Martini, Beppo,
Marietta, and the girls tumbling and rushing about distraught with terror. Such a mad-like
scene! There was a trembling and a shaking of the white figure for a moment, then down it went
in a heap to the floor, and out came the substantial proportions of Doctor Morani, looming
formidable in the dusky light of the expiring embers. The sound of his well-known vigorous
laugh resounded through the kitchen, as he flung a bunch of pine branches on the fire. The
next moment a bright flame shot up, and the light as by magic brought the scared group to their
senses. Each looked into the faces of the others with an expression of rising merriment struggling
with ghastly fear, and first a long-drawn breath of relief, and then a burst of laughter broke
from all.

"What a fright you have given us, Padrone!" Beppo was the first to say.

"I hope so," replied the Doctor,--"it has only paid you off for the one you gave me twenty
years ago."

"I!--you!--but how, caro Padrone?"

"Ah! you haven't yet, I assure you, recognized your old acquaintance, the identical ghost which
you favored with a bullet. Would you like to see it once more?"

"Pazienza!" exclaimed Beppo, "for once,--twice;--but three times,--no, that is more than enough.
I am satisfied with what I have seen."

"Do you know what you have seen?"  resumed the Doctor. "Very well, listen to me. When the Rector
refused to let poor Hans lie in the same ground with many of our townspeople who (God rest
their souls!) had lived scarcely so honest a life as he had done, I was far from imagining
that he was to be thrust into the tower, of all places in the world, and just when it was well
known I had bargained for it. 'That's the way I am to be used, is it?' thought I. I'll play
you a trick, my friends, worth two of yours,--one that will make you glad to give honest Hans
hospitality in your churchyard.'

"I waited a few days, till the moon should rise late, so as to be shining about one or two
in the morning, the time when the girls set off for the woods. I provided myself with a sheet,
and took care to be in the tower before midnight. I tied two long sticks together in the shape
of a cross, stuck my hat on the top, and threw the linen over the whole; and a capital ghost
it was. Then I got under the drapery, pushing up the stick, so as to give the idea of a gigantic
human figure with extended arms. I had no fear of being discovered, for the Syndic had the
key still in his possession, and I had made good my entrance through a gap in the wall sufficiently
well concealed by brambles. I suppose I need not tell you, young women, how brave your mothers
were. My ghostship heard of the young men's project, and encouraged them, never thinking there
was one among them so stupid as to carry a gun to fight a ghost with; for how can you shoot
a ghost, when it has neither flesh nor blood? It was impossible to suspect any one of being
such a monstrous blockhead; so I was rather disagreeably startled at hearing the crack of a
gun, and feeling the tingling of a bullet whizzing past my ear. You nearly made me into a real
ghost, friend Beppo; for I assure you, you are a capital shot. Ever since that memorable aim,
I have entertained the deepest respect for you as a marksman; it was not your fault that I
am here now to make this confession. I ducked my head below the wall in case a volley was to
follow the signal gun. When I peeped again, there remained one solitary figure before the tower,
immovable as a stone pillar. O noble Beppo, it was thou!

"'I must get rid of this fellow one way or other,' thought I, 'but not by shaking my stick-covered
sheet, or I shall have another bullet.' So I raised myself breasthigh above the wall, made
a trumpet of my hands, and roared out the fearful promise I have kept this evening. As soon
as I saw my enemy's back, I left my station, and never played the ghost again."

"A pretty folly for a man of forty!"  cried Signora Martina, still smarting under her late
fright. "Why, a boy would be well whipped for such a trick. There's no knowing what to believe
in a man like you, no saying when you are in earnest or in fun."

After a moment's silence, the lady asked in a softer tone, "Now do tell me, Morani, is it true
that poor Hans recanted before he died?"

"My dear, if Padre Michele had been in time, we should have been sure of the fact. You see
the Rector did not think I knew enough of theology to decide. I am a submissive child of the
Church," replied the husband. "As for the ghost, I took care to provide against forgetting
my folly. On the top shelf of the laboratory I hung up the bullet-pierced hat; and the bullet
itself I ticketed with the date and kept in my desk. Who wants to see the ghost's hat?"--and
the Doctor drew a hat from under the sheet still lying on the floor, and exhibited it to the
curious eyes of all present, making them admire the neat hole in it. The bullet itself he took
out of his waistcoat pocket, and holding it towards Beppo, asked, "Hadn't it a mark?"

"Yes, sir, I cut a cross on it," replied the abashed climber of olive-trees; "and by all the
Saints, there it is still! Pasqualina, my girl," turning to her, "your uncle's ghost will turn
out to be somebody."

"Bravo! Beppo," cried the Doctor.

"Knowing what you know by experience, suppose you hint to any one inclined to spectre-shooting,
that he runs the risk of killing a live man, and having two ghosts on his hands,--the ghost
of the poor devil shot, and one of himself hanged for murder. As for you, young girls, remember
that when you go forth to meet the perils of dark mornings, you are more likely to encounter
dangers from flesh and blood than from spirits."

THE GOLDEN MILE-STONE.

[The Milliorium Aureum, or Golden Mile-Stone, was a gilt marble pillar in the Forum at Rome,
from which, as a central point, the great roads of the empire diverged through the several
gates of the city, and the distances were measured.]

    Leafless are the trees; their purple branches
    Spread themselves abroad, like reefs of coral
             Rising silent
    In the Red Sea of the winter sunset.

    From the hundred chimneys of the village,
    Like the Afreet in the Arabian story,
             Smoky columns
    Tower aloft into the air of amber.

    At the window winks the flickering fire-light;
    Here and there the lamps of evening glimmer,
             Social watch-fires,
    Answering one another through the darkness.

    On the hearth the lighted logs are glowing,
    And, like Ariel in the cloven pine-tree,
             For its freedom
    Groans and sighs the air imprisoned in them.

    By the fireside there are old men seated,
    Seeing ruined cities in the ashes,
             Asking sadly
    Of the Past what it can ne'er restore them.

    By the fireside there are youthful dreamers,
    Building castles fair with stately stairways,
             Asking blindly
    Of the Future what it cannot give them.

    By the fireside tragedies are acted
    In whose scenes appear two actors only,
             Wife and husband,
    And above them God, the sole spectator.

    By the fireside there are peace and comfort,
    Wives and children, with fair, thoughtful faces,
             Waiting, watching
    For a well-known footstep in the passage.

    In his farthest wanderings still he sees it;
    Hears the talking flame, the answering night-wind,
             As he heard them
    When he sat with those who were, but are not.

    Happy he whom neither wealth nor fashion,
    Nor the march of the encroaching city,
             Drives an exile
    From the hearth of his ancestral homestead!

    We may build more splendid habitations,
    Fill our rooms with paintings and with sculptures,
             But we cannot
    Buy with gold the old associations.

THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST-TABLE.

EVERY MAN HIS OWN BOSWELL.
  For summer's <last roses> lie hid in the <wines>

                            stable-boys smoking long-nines.
  That were garnered by <maidens who laughed through the vines.>

          scowl          howl           scoff          sneer
  Then a <smile>, and a <glass>, and a <toast>, and a <cheer>,

      strychnine and whiskey, and ratsbane and beer! Manuscripts are
such puzzles! Why, I was reading some lines near the end of the last
number of this journal, when I came across one beginning

  "The stream flashes by,"--

Now as no stream had been mentioned, I was perplexed to know what it meant. It proved, on inquiry,
to be only a misprint for "dream." Think of it!

THOMAS CARLYLE.

THOMAS CARLYLE is a name which no man of this generation should pronounce without respect;
for it belongs to one of the high-priests of modern literature, to whom all contemporary minds
are indebted, and by whose intellect and influence a new spiritual cultus has been established
in the realm of letters. It is yet impossible to estimate either the present value or the remote
issues of the work which he has accomplished. We see that a revolution in all the departments
of thought, feeling, and literary enterprise has been silently achieved amongst us, but we
are yet ignorant of its full bearing, and of the final goal to which it is hurrying us. One
thing, however, is clear respecting it: that it was not forced in the hot-bed of any possible
fanaticism, but that it grew fairly out of the soil, a genuine product of the time and its
circumstances. It was, indeed, a new manifestation of the hidden forces and vitalities of what
we call Protestantism,--an assertion by the living soul of its right to be heard once more
in a world which seemed to ignore its existence, and had set up a ghastly skeleton of dry bones
for its oracle and God. It was that necessary return to health, earnestness, and virtuous endeavor
which Kreeshna speaks of in the Hindoo Geeta: "Whenever vice and corruption have sapped the
foundations of the world, and men have lost their sense of good and evil, I, Kreeshna, make
myself manifest for the restoration of order, and the establishment of justice, virtue, and
piety." And so this literary revolution, of which we are speaking, brought us from frivolity
to earnestness, from unbelief and all the dire negations which it engenders, to a sublime faith
in human duty and the providence of God.

We have no room here to trace either the foreign or the native influences which, operating
as antagonism or as inspiration upon the minds of Coleridge, Carlyle, and others, produced
finally these great and memorable results. It is but justice, however, to recognize Coleridge
as the pioneer of the new era. His fine metaphysical intellect and grand imagination, nurtured
and matured in the German schools of philosophy and theology, reproduced the speculations of
their great thinkers in a form and coloring which could not fail to be attractive to all seeking
and sincere minds in England. The French Revolution and the Encyclopedists had already prepared
the ground for the reception of new thought and revelation. Hence Coleridge, as writer and
speaker, drew towards his centre all the young and ardent men of his time,--and among others,
the subject of the present article. Carlyle, however, does not seem to have profited much by
the spoken discourses of the master; and in his "Life of Sterling" he gives an exceedingly
graphic, cynical, and amusing account of the oracular meetings at Highgate, where the philosopher
sat in his great easy-chair, surrounded by his disciples and devotees, uttering, amid floods
of unintelligible, mystic eloquence, those radiant thoughts and startling truths which warrant
his claim to genius, if not to greatness. It is curious to observe how at this early period
of Carlyle's life, when all the talent and learning of England bowed at these levees before
the gigantic speculator and dreamer, he, perhaps alone, stood aloof from the motley throng
of worshippers,--with them, but not of them,--coolly analyzing every sentence delivered by
the oracle, and sufficiently learned in the divine lore to separate the gold from the dross.
What was good and productive he was ready to recognize and assimilate; leaving the opium pomps
and splendors of the discourse, and all the Oriental imagery with which the speaker decorated
his bathos, to those who could find profit therein. It is still more curious and sorrowful
to see this great Coleridge, endowed with such high gifts, of so various learning, and possessing
so marvellous and plastic a power over all the forms of language, forsaking the true for the
false inspiration, and relying upon a vile drug to stimulate his large and lazy intellect into
action. Carlyle seems to have regarded him at this period as a sort of fallen demigod; and
although he sneers, with an almost Mephistophelean distortion of visage, at the philosopher's
half inarticulate drawling of speech, at his snuffy, nasal utterance of the ever-recurring
"omnject" and "sumnject" yet gleams of sympathy and affection, not unmixed with sorrow, appear
here and there in what he says concerning him. And indeed, although the immense fame of Coleridge
is scarcely warranted by his printed performances, he was, nevertheless, worthy both of affection
and homage. For whilst we pity the weakness and disease of his moral nature, under the influence
of that dark and terribly enchanting weed, we cannot forget either his personal amiabilities
or the great service which he rendered to letters and to society. Carlyle himself would be
the last man to deny this laurel to the brows of "the poet, the philosopher, and the divine,"
as Charles Lamb calls him; and it is certain that the thinking of Coleridge helped to fashion
Carlyle's mind, and not unlikely that it directed him to a profounder study of German writers
than he had hitherto given to them.

Coleridge had already formed a school both of divinity and philosophy. He had his disciples,
as well as those far-off gazers who looked upon him with amazement and trembling, not knowing
what to make of the phenomenon, or whether to regard him as friend or foe to the old dispensation
and the established order of things. He had written books and poems, preached Unitarian sermons,
recanted, and preached philosophy and Church-of-Englandism. To the dazzled eyes of all ordinary
mortals, content to chew the cud of parish sermons, and swallow, Sunday after Sunday, the articles
of common belief, he seemed an eccentric comet. But a better astronomy recognized him as a
fixed star, for he was unmistakable by that fitting Few whose verdict is both history and immortality.

But a greater than Coleridge, destined to assume a more commanding position, and exercise a
still wider power over the minds of his age, arose in Thomas Carlyle. The son of a Scotch farmer,
he had in his youth a hard student's life of it, and many severe struggles to win the education
which is the groundwork of his greatness. His father was a man of keen penetration, who saw
into the heart of things, and possessed such strong intellect and sterling common sense that
the country people said "he always hit the nail on the head and clinched it." His mother was
a good, pious woman, who loved the Bible, and Luther's "Table Talk," and Luther,--walking humbly
and sincerely before God, her Heavenly Father. Carlyle was brought up in the religion of his
fathers and his country; and it is easy to see in his writings how deep a root this solemn
and earnest belief had struck down into his mind and character. He readily confesses how much
he owes to his mother's early teaching, to her beautiful and beneficent example of goodness
and holiness; and he ever speaks of her with affection and reverence. We once saw him at a
friend's house take up a folio edition of the "Table Talk" alluded to, and turn over the pages
with a gentle and loving hand, reading here and there his mother's favorite passages,--now
speaking of the great historic value of the book, and again of its more private value, as his
mother's constant companion and solace. It was touching to see this pitiless intellect, which
had bruised and broken the idols of so many faiths, to which Luther himself was recommended
only by his bravery and self-reliance and the grandeur of his aims,--it was touching, we say,
and suggestive also of many things, to behold the strong, stern man paying homage to language
whose spirit was dead to him, out of pure love for his dear mother, and veneration also for
the great heart in which that spirit was once alive that fought so grand and terrible a battle.
Carlyle likes to talk of Luther, and, as his "Hero-Worship" shows, loves his character. A great,
fiery, angry gladiator, with something of the bully in him,--as what controversialist has not,
from Luther to Erasmus, to Milton, to Carlyle himself?--a dread image-breaker, implacable as
Cromwell, but higher and nobler than he, with the tenderness of a woman in his inmost heart,
full of music, and glory, and spirituality, and power; his speech genuine and idiomatic, not
battles only, but conquests; and all his highest, best, and gentlest thoughts robed in the
divine garments of religion and poetry;--such was Luther, and as such Carlyle delights to behold
him. Are they not akin? We assuredly think so. For the blood of this aristocracy refuses to
mix with that of churls and bastards, and flows pure and uncontaminated from century to century,
descending in all its richness and vigor from Piromis to Piromis. The ancient philosopher knew
this secret well enough when he said a Parthian and a Libyan might be related, although they
had no common parental blood; and that a man is not necessarily my brother because he is born
of the same womb.

We find that Carlyle in his student-life manifested many of those strong moral characteristics
which are the attributes of all his heroes. An indomitable courage and persistency meet us
everywhere in his pages,--persistency, and also careful painstaking, and patience in sifting
facts and gathering results. He disciplined himself to this end in early youth, and never allowed
any study or work to conquer him. Speaking to us once in private upon the necessity of persevering
effort in order to any kind of success in life, he said, "When I was a student, I resolved
to make myself master of Newton's 'Principia,' and although I had not at that time knowledge
enough of mathematics to make the task other than a Hercules-labor to me, yet I read and wrought
unceasingly, through all obstructions and difficulties, until I had accomplished it; and no
Tamerlane conqueror ever felt half so happy as I did when the terrible book lay subdued and
vanquished before me." This trifling anecdote is a key to Carlyle's character. To achieve his
object, he exhausts all the means within his command; never shuffles through his work, but
does it faithfully and sincerely, with a man's heart and hand. This outward sincerity in the
conduct of his executive faculty has its counterpart in the inmost recesses of his nature.
We feel that this man and falsehood are impossible companions, and our faith in his integrity
is perfect and absolute. Herein lies his power; and here also lies the power of all men who
have ever moved the world. For it is in the nature of truth to conserve itself, whilst falsehood
is centrifugal, and flies off into inanity and nothingness. It is by the cardinal virtue of
sincerity alone--the truthfulness of deed to thought, of effect to cause--that man and nature
are sustained. God is truth; and he who is most faithful to truth is not only likest to God,
but is made a participator in the divine nature. For without truth there is neither power,
vitality, nor permanence.

Carlyle was fortunate that he was comparatively poor, and never tempted, therefore, as a student,
to dissipate his fine talents in the gay pursuits of university life. Not that there would
have been any likelihood of his running into the excesses of ordinary students, but we are
pleased and thankful to reflect that he suffered no kind of loss or harm in those days of his
novitiate. It is one of the many consolations of poverty that it protects young men from snares
and vices to which the rich are exposed; and our poor student in his garret was preserved faithful
to his vocation, and laid up day by day those stores of knowledge, experience, and heavenly
wisdom which he has since turned to so good account. It would be deeply interesting, if we
could learn the exact position of Carlyle's mind at this time, with respect to those profound
problems of human nature and destiny which have occupied the greatest men in all ages, ceaselessly
and pertinaciously urging their dark and solemn questions, and refusing to depart until their
riddles were in some sort solved. That Carlyle was haunted by these questions, and by the pitiless
Sphinx herself who guards the portals of life and death,--that he had to meet her face to face,
staring at him with her stony, passionless eyes,--that he had to grapple and struggle with
her for victory,--there are proofs abundant in his writings. The details of the struggle, however,
are not given us; it is the result only that we know. But it is evident that the progress of
his mind from the bog-region of orthodoxy to the high realms of thought and faith was a slow
proceeding,--not rolled onward as with the chariot-wheels of a fierce and sudden revolution,
but gradually developed in a long series of births, growths, and deaths. The theological phraseology
sticks to him, indeed, even to the present time, although he puts it to new uses; and it acquires
in his hands a power and significance which it possessed only when, of old, it was representative
of the divine.

Carlyle was matured in solitude. Emerson found him, in the year 1833, on the occasion of his
first visit to England, living at Craigenputtock, a farm in Nithsdale, far away from all civilization,
and "no one to talk to but the minister of the parish." He, good man, could make but little
of his solitary friend, and must many a time have been startled out of his canonicals by the
strange, alien speeches which he heard. It is a pity that this minister had not had some of
the Boswell faculty in him, that he might have reported what we should all be so glad to hear.
Over that period of his life, however, the curtain falls at present, to be lifted only, if
ever, by Carlyle himself. Through the want of companionship, he fell back naturally upon books
and his own thoughts. Here he wrote some of his finest critical essays for the reviews, and
that "rag of a book," as he calls it, the "Life of Schiller." The essays show a catholic, but
conservative spirit, and are full of deep thought. They exhibit also a profoundly philosophical
mind, and a power of analysis which is almost unique in letters. They are pervaded likewise
by an earnestness and solemnity which are perfectly Hebraic; and each performance is presented
in a style decorated with all the costly jewels of imagination and fancy,--a style of far purer
and more genuine English than any of his subsequent writings, which are often marred, indeed,
by gross exaggerations, and still grosser violations of good taste and the chastities of language.
What made these writings, however, so notable at the time, and so memorable since, was that
sincerity and deep religious feeling of the writer which we have already alluded to. Here were
new elements introduced into the current literature, destined to revivify it, and to propagate
themselves, as by seminal vitality, in myriad minds and forms. These utterances were both prophetic
and creative, and took all sincere minds captive. Dry and arid in comparison as Egyptian deserts,
lay all around him the writings of his contemporaries. No living waters flowed through them;
all was sand, and parch, and darkness. The contrast was immense: a living soul and a dead corpse!
Since the era of the Commonwealth,--the holy, learned, intellectual, and earnest age of Taylor,
Barrow, Milton, Fuller,--no such pen of fire had wrought its miracles amongst us. Writers spoke
from the intellect, believed in the intellect, and divorced it from the soul and the moral
nature. Science, history, ethics, religion, whenever treated of in literary form, were mechanized,
and shone not with any spiritual illumination. There was abundance of lawyer-like ability,--but
of genius, and its accompanying divine afflatus, little. Carlyle is full of genius; and this
is evidenced not only by the fine aroma of his language, but by the depths of his insight,
his wondrous historical pictures,--living cartoons of persons, events, and epochs, which he
paints often in single sentences,--and the rich mosaic of truths with which every page of his
writings is inlaid.

That German literature, with which at this time Carlyle had been more or less acquainted for
ten years, had done much to foster and develop his genius there can be no doubt; although the
book which first created a storm in his mind, and awoke him to the consciousness of his own
abundant faculty, was the "Confessions" of Rousseau,--a fact which is well worthy of record
and remembrance.

From Rousseau, and his strange thoughts, and wild, ardent eloquence, the transition to German
literature was easy. Some one had told Carlyle that he would find in this literature what he
had so long sought after,--truth and rest,--and he gladly learned the language, and addressed
himself to the study of its masters; with what success all the world knows, for he has grafted
their thoughts upon his own, and whoever now speaks is more or less consciously impregnated
by his influence. Who the man was that sent Carlyle to them does not appear, and so far as
he is concerned it is of little moment to inquire; but the fact constitutes the grand epoch
in Carlyle's life, and his true history dates from that period.

It was natural that he should be deeply moved on his introduction to German literature. He
went to it with an open and receptive nature, and with an earnestness of purpose which could
not fail to be productive. Jean Paul, the beautiful!--the good man, and the wise teacher, with
poetic stuff in him sufficient to have floated an argosy of modern writers,--this great, imaginative
Jean Paul was for a long time Carlyle's idol, whom he reverently and affectionately studied.
He has written a fine paper about him in his "Miscellanies," and we trace his influence not
only in Carlyle's thought and sentiment, but in the very form of their utterance. He was, indeed,
warped by him, at one period, clear out of his orbit, and wrote as he inspired. The dazzling
sunbursts of Richter's imagination, however,--its gigantic procession of imagery, moving along
in sublime and magnificent marches from earth to heaven, from heaven to earth,--the array,
symbolism, and embodiment of his manifold ideas, ceased in the end to enslave, though they
still captivated Carlyle's mind; and he turns from him to the thinkers who deal with God's
geometry, and penetrate into the abysses of being,--to primordial Kant, and his behemoth brother,
Fichte. Nor does Hegel, or Schelling, or Schlegel, or Novalis escape his pursuit, but he hunts
them all down, and takes what is needful to him, out of them, as his trophy. Schiller is his
king of singers, although he does not much admire his "Philosophical Letters," or his "Aesthetic
Letters." But his grandest modern man is the calm and plastic Goethe, and the homage he renders
him is worthy of a better and a holier idol. Goethe's "Autobiography," in so far as it relates
to his early days, is a bad book; and Wordsworth might well say of the "Wilhelm Meister," that
"it was full of all manner of fornication, like the crossing of flies in the air." Goethe,
however, is not to be judged by any fragmentary estimate of him, but as an intellectual whole;
for he represented the intellect, and grasped with his selfish and cosmical mind all the provinces
of thought, learning, art, science, and government, for purely intellectual purposes. This
entrance into, and breaking up of, the minds of these distinguished persons was, however, a
fine discipline for Carlyle, who is fully aware of its value; and whilst holding communion
with these great men, who by their genius and insight seemed to apprehend the essential truth
of things at a glance, it is not wonderful that he should have been so merciless in his denunciations
of the mere logic-ability of English writers, as he shows himself in the essays of that period.
Logic, useful as it is, as a help to reasoning, is but the dead body of thought, as Novalis
designates it, and has no place in the inspired regions where the prophets and the bards reside.

Carlyle's fame, however, had not reached its culminating point when Emerson visited him. The
English are a slow, unimpressionable people, not given to hasty judgments, nor too much nor
too sudden praise; requiring first to take the true altitude of a man, to measure him by severe
tests; often grudging him his proper and natural advantages and talents, buffeting and abusing
him in a merciless and sometimes an unreasoning and unreasonable manner, allowing him now and
then, however, a sunbeam for his consolation, until at last they come to a settled understanding
of him, and he is generously praised and abused into the sanctuary of their worthies. This
was not the case, however, at present, with Carlyle; for although he had the highest recognitions
from some of those who constitute the flower and chivalry of England, he was far better known
and more widely read in America than in his own country. Emerson, then a young man, with a
great destiny before him, was attracted by his writings, and carried a letter of introduction
to him at Craigenputtock. He is the same man, in his best moods, in the year 1857, as he was
in 1833. His person, except that he stoops slightly, is tall, and very little changed. He is
thinner, and the once ruddy hues of his cheek are dying away like faint streaks of light in
the twilight sky of a summer evening. But he is strong and hearty on the whole; although the
excitement of continuous writing keeps him in a perpetual fever, deranges his liver, and makes
him at times acrid and savage as a sick giant. Hence his increased pugnacity of late,--his
fierceness, and angry hammering of all things sacred and profane. It is but physical and temporary,
however, all this, and does not affect his healthy and serene moments. For no man lives who
possesses greater kindness and affection, or more good, noble, and humane qualities. All who
know him love him, although they may have much to pardon in him; not in a social or moral sense,
however, but in an intellectual one. His talk is as rich as ever,--perhaps richer; for his
mind has increased its stores, and the old fire of geniality still burns in his great and loving
heart. Perhaps his conversation is better than his printed discourse. We have never heard anything
like it. It is all alive, as if each word had a soul in it.

How characteristic is all that Emerson tells us of him in his "English Traits"!--a book, by
the way, concerning which no adequate word has yet been spoken; the best book ever written
upon England, and which no brave young Englishman can read, and ever after commit either a
mean or a bad action. We are therefore doubly thankful to Emerson, both for what he says of
England, and for what he relates of Carlyle, whose independent speech upon all subjects is
one of his chief charms. He reads "Blackwood," for example, and has enjoyed many a racy, vigorous
article in its pages; but it does not satisfy him, and he calls it "Sand Magazine." "Fraser's"
is a little better, but not good enough to be worthy of a higher nomenclature than "Mud Magazine."
Excessive praise of any one's talents drives him into admiration of the parts of his own learned
pig, now wallowing in the stye. The best thing he knew about America was that there a man could
have meat for his labor. He did not read Plato, and he disparaged Socrates. Mirabeau was a
hero; Gibbon the splendid bridge from the old world to the new. It is interesting also to hear
that "Tristram Shandy" was one of the first books he read after "Robinson Crusoe," and that
Robertson's "America" was an early favorite. Rousseau's "Confessions" had discovered to him
that he was not a dunce. Speaking of English pauperism, he said that government should direct
poor men what to do. Here is the germ of his book on "Chartism." Emerson and he talk of the
immortality of the soul, seated on the hill-tops near Old Criffel, and looking down "into Wordsworth's
country."

Such is Emerson's account of his first visit to our author, whose eyes were already turned
towards London as the heart of the world, whither he subsequently went, and where he now abides.

From Craigenputtock, with its savage rocks and moorlands, its sheepwalk solitudes, its isolation
and distance from all the advantages of civil and intellectual life, to London and the living
solitude of its unnumberable inhabitants, its activities, polity, and world-wide ramifications
of commerce, learning, science, literature, and art, was a change of great magnitude, whose
true proportions it took time to estimate. Carlyle, however, was not afraid of the huge mechanism
of London life, but took to it bravely and kindly, and was soon at home amidst the everlasting
whirl and clamor, the roar and thunder of its revolutions. For although a scholar, and bred
in seclusion, he was also a genuine man of the world, and well acquainted with its rough ways
and Plutonic wisdom. This knowledge, combined with his strong "common sense,"--as poor Dr.
Beattie calls it, fighting for its supremacy with canine ferocity,--gave Carlyle high vantage-ground
in his writings. He could meet the world with its own weapons, and was cunning enough at that
fence, as the world was very shortly sensible. He was saved, therefore, from the contumely
which vulgar minds are always ready to bestow upon saints and mystics who sit aloof from them,
high enthroned amidst the truths and solemnities of God. The secluded and ascetic life of most
scholars, highly favorable as it undoubtedly is to contemplation and internal development,
has likewise its disadvantages, and puts them, as being undisciplined in the ways of life,
at great odds, when they come to the actual and practical battle. A man should be armed at
all points, and not subject himself, like good George Fox, Jacob Behmen, and other holy men,
to the taunts of the mob, on account of any awkward gait, mannerism, or ignorance of men and
affairs. Paul had none of these absurdities about him; but was an accomplished person, as well
as a divine speaker. His doctrine of being all things to all men, that he might win souls to
Christ, is, like good manners and politeness, a part of that mundane philosophy which obtains
in every society, both as theory and performance; not, however, in its literal meaning, which
would involve all sorts of hypocrisy and lies as its accessories, but in the sense of ability
to meet all kinds of men on their own grounds and with their own enginery of warfare.

Strength, whether of mind or body, is sure to command respect, even though it be used against
ourselves; for we Anglo-Saxons are all pugilists. A man, therefore, who accredits his metal
by the work he accomplishes, will be readily enough heard when he comes to speak and labor
upon higher platforms. This was the case with Carlyle; and when he published that new Book
of Job, that weird and marvellous Pilgrim's Progress of a modern cultivated soul, the "Sartor
Resartus," in "Fraser's Magazine," strange, wild, and incomprehensible as it was to most men,
they did not put it contemptuously aside, but pondered it, laughed at it, trembled over it
and its dread apocalyptical visions and revelations, respecting its earnestness and eloquence,
although not comprehending what manner of writing it essentially was. Carlyle enjoyed the perplexity
of his readers and reviewers, neither of whom, with the exception of men like Sterling, and
a writer in one of the Quarterlies, seemed to know what they were talking about when they spoke
of it. The criticisms upon it were exceedingly comical in many instances, and the author put
the most notable of these together, and always alluded to them with roars of laughter. The
book has never yet received justice at the hands of any literary tribunal. It requires, indeed,
a large amount of culture to appreciate it, either as a work of art, or as a living flame-painting
of spiritual struggle and revelation. In his previous writings he had insisted upon the sacredness
and infinite value of the human soul,--upon the wonder and mystery of life, and its dread surroundings,--upon
the divine significance of the universe, with its star pomp, and overhanging immensities,--and
upon the primal necessity for each man to stand with awe and reverence in this august and solemn
presence, if he would hope to receive any glimpses of its meaning, or live a true and divine
life in the world; and in the "Sartor" he has embodied and illustrated this in the person and
actions of his hero. He saw that religion had become secular; that it was reduced to a mere
Sunday holiday and Vanity Fair, taking no vital hold of the lives of men, and radiating, therefore,
none of its blessed and beautiful influences about their feet and ways; that human life itself,
with all its adornments of beauty and poetry, was in danger of paralysis and death; that love
and faith, truth, duty, and holiness, were fast losing their divine attributes in the common
estimation, and were hurrying downwards with tears and a sad threnody into gloom and darkness.
Carlyle saw all this, and knew that it was the reaction of that intellectual idolatry which
brought the eighteenth century to a close; knew also that there was only one remedy which could
restore men to life and health,--namely, the quickening once again of their spiritual nature.
He felt, also, that it was his mission to attempt this miracle; and hence the prophetic fire
and vehemence of his words. No man, and especially no earnest man, can read him without feeling
himself arrested as by the grip of a giant,--without trembling before his stern questions,
inculcations, and admonitions. There is a God, O Man! and not a blind chance, as governor of
this world. Thy soul has infinite relations with this God, which thou canst never realize in
thy being, or manifest in thy practical life, save by a devout reverence for him, and his miraculous,
awful universe. This reverence, this deep, abiding religious feeling, is the only link which
binds us to the Infinite. That severed, broken, or destroyed, and man is an alien and an orphan;
lost to him forever is the key to all spiritual mystery, to the hieroglyph of the soul, to
the symbolism of nature, of time, and of eternity. Such, as we understand it, is Carlyle's
teaching. But this is not all. Man is to be man in that high sense we have spoken his robes
of immortality around him, as if God had done with him for all practical purposes, and he with
God,--but for action,--action in a world which is to prove his power, his beneficence, his
usefulness. That spiritual fashioning by the Great Fashioner of all things is so ordained that
we ourselves may become fashioners, workers, makers. For it is given to no man to be an idle
cumberer of the ground, but to dig, and sow, and plant, and reap the fruits of his labor for
the garner. This is man's first duty, and the diviner he is the more divinely will he execute it.

That such a gospel as this could find utterance in the pages of the "Edinburgh Review" is curious
enough; and it is scarcely less surprising that the "Sartor Resartus" should make its first
appearance in the somewhat narrow and conservative pages of Fraser. Carlyle has clearly written
his own struggles in this book,--his struggles and his conquests. From the "Everlasting No,"--that
dreadful realm of enchantment, where all the forms of nature are frozen forever in dumb imprisonment
and despair,--the great vaulted firmament no longer serene and holy and loving as God's curtain
for his children's slumbers, but flaming in starry portents, and dropping down over the earth
like a funeral pall; through this region of life-semblance and death-reality the lonely and
aching pilgrim wanders,--questioning without reply,--wailing, broken, self-consuming,--looking
with eager eyes for the waters of immortality, and finding nothing but pools of salt and Marahs
of bitterness. Herein is no Calvary, no Cross-symbolism, by whose miraculous power he is relieved
of his infinite burden of sorrow, starting onward with hope and joy in his heart; nor does
he ever find his Calvary until the deeps of his spiritual nature are broken up and flooded
with celestial light, as he knocks reverently at the portals of heaven for communion with his
Father who is in heaven. Then bursts upon him a new significance from all things; he sees that
the great world is but a fable of divine truth, hiding its secrets from all but the initiated
and the worthy, and that faith, and trust, and worship are the cipher, which unlocks them all.
He thus arrives at the plains of heaven in the region of the "Everlasting Yes." His own soul
lies naked and resolved before him,--its unspeakable greatness, its meaning, faculty, and destiny.
Work, and dutiful obedience to the laws of work, are the outlets of his power; and herein he
finds peace and rest to his soul.

That Carlyle is not only an earnest, but a profoundly religious man, these attempted elucidations
of his teachings will abundantly show. His religion, however, is very far remote from what
is called religion in this day. He has no patience with second-hand beliefs,--with articles
of faith ready-made for the having. Whatsoever is accepted by men because it is the tradition
of their fathers, and not a deep conviction arrived at by legitimate search, is to him of no
avail; and all merely historical and intellectual faith, standing outside the man, and not
absorbed in the life as a vital, moving, and spiritual power, he places also amongst the chaff
for burning. This world is a serious world, and human life and business are also serious matters,--not
to be trifled with, nor cheated by shams and hypocrisies, but to be dealt with in all truth,
soberness, and sincerity. No one can thus deal with it who is not himself possessed of these
qualities, and the result of a life is the test of what virtue there is in it. False men leave
no mark. It is truth alone which does the masonry of the world,--which founds empires, and
builds cities, and establishes laws, commerce, and civilization. And in private life the same
law abides, indestructible as God. Carlyle's teaching tends altogether in this direction; and
whilst he belongs to no church and no creed, he is tolerant of all, and of everything that
is heartily and unfeignedly believed in by his fellows. He is no Catholic; and yet for years
he read little else than the forty volumes of the "Acta Sanctorum," and found, he says, all
Christian history there, and much of profane history. Neither is he a Mahometan; but he nevertheless
makes a hero of Mahomet, whom he loves for his Ishmaelite fierceness, bravery, and religious
sincerity,--and because he taught deism, or the belief in one God, instead of the old polytheism,
or the belief in many gods,--and gave half the East his very good book, called the Koran, for
his followers to live and die by.

Whether this large catholicism, this worship of heroes, is the best of what now remains of
religion on earth is certainly questionable enough; and if we regard it in no other light than
merely as an idolatry of persons, there is an easy answer ready for it. But considering that
religion is now so far dead that it consists in little else than formalities, and that its
divine truth is no longer such to half the great world, which lies, indeed, in dire atrophy
and wickedness,--and if we further consider and agree that the awakened human soul is the divinest
thing on earth, and partakes of the divine nature itself, and that its manifestations are also
divine in whomsoever it is embodied, we can see some apology for its adoption; inasmuch as
it is the divine likeness to which reverence and homage are rendered, and not the person merely,
but only so far as he is the medium of its showing. Christianity, however, will assuredly survive,
although doubtless in a new form, preserving all the integrity of its message,--and be once
more faith and life to men, when the present old, established, decaying cultus shall be venerated
only as history.

Carlyle clings to the Christian formulary and the old Christian life in spite of himself. He
is almost fanatical in his attachment to the mediaeval times,--to the ancient worship, its
ceremonial, music, and architecture, its monastic government, its saints and martyrs. And the
reason, as he shows in the "Past and Present," is, that all this array of devotion, this pomp
and ceremony, this music and painting, this gorgeous and sublime architecture, this fasting
and praying, were real,--faithful manifestations of a religion which to that people was truly
genuine and holy. They who built the cathedrals of Europe, adorned them with carvings, pictures,
and those stately windows with their storied illuminations which at this day are often miracles
of beauty and of art, were not frivolous modern conventicle-builders, but poets as grand as
Milton, and sculptors whose genius might front that of Michel Angelo. It was no dead belief
in a dead religion which designed and executed these matchless temples. Man and Religion were
both alive in those days; and the worship of God was so profound a prostration of the inmost
spirit before his majesty and glory, that the souls of the artists seem to have been inspired,
and to have received their archetypes in heavenly visions. Such temples it is neither in the
devotion nor the faculty of the modern Western world to conceive or construct. Carlyle knows
all this, and he falls back in loving admiration upon those old times and their worthies, despising
the filigree materials of which the men of to-day are for the most part composed. He revels
in that picture of monastic life, also, which is preserved in the record of Jocelyn de Brakelonde.
He sees all men at work there, each at his proper vocation;--and he praises them, because they
fear God and do their duty. He finds them the same men, although with better and devouter hearts,
as we are at this day. Time makes no difference in this verdant human nature, which shows ever
the same in Catholic monasteries as in Puritan meeting-houses. We have a wise preachment, however,
from that Past, to the Present, in Carlyle's book, which is one of his best efforts, and contains
isolated passages which for wisdom and beauty, and chastity of utterance, he has never exceeded.

We have no space to speak here of all his books with anything like critical integrity. The
greatest amongst them, however, is, perhaps, his "French Revolution, a History,"--which is
no history, but a vivid painting of characters and events as they moved along in tumultuous
procession. No one can appreciate this book who is not acquainted with the history in its details
beforehand. Emerson once related to us a striking anecdote connected with this work, which
gives us another glimpse of Carlyle's character. He had just completed, after infinite labor,
one of the three volumes of his History, which he left exposed on his study table when he went
to bed. Next morning he sought in vain for the manuscript, and had wellnigh concluded with
Robert Hall, who was once in a similar dilemma, that the Devil had run away with it, when the
servant-girl, on being questioned, confessed that she had burnt it to kindle the fire. Carlyle
neither stamped nor raved, but sat down without a word and rewrote it.

In summing up the present results of Carlyle's labor, foolish men of the world and small critics
have not failed to ask what it all amounts to,--what the great Demiurgus is aiming at in his
weary battle of life; and the question is significant enough,--one more proof of that Egyptian
darkness of vision which he is here to dispel. "He pulls down the old," say they; "but what
does he give us in place of it? Why does he not strike out a system of his own? And after all,
there is nothing new in him." Such is the idle talk of the day, and such are the men who either
guide the people, or seek to guide them. Poor ignorant souls! who do not know the beginning
of the knowledge which Carlyle teaches, nor its infinite importance to life and all its concerns:--this,
namely, as we have said before, that the soul should first of all be wakened to the consciousness
of its own miraculous being, that it may be penetrated by the miracles of the universe, and
rise by aspiration and faith to the knowledge and worship of God, in whom are all things; that
this attitude of the soul, and its accompanying wisdom, will beget the strength, purity, virtue,
and truth which can alone restore order and beauty upon the earth; that all "systems," and
mechanical, outward means and appliances to the end, will but increase the Babel of confusion,
as things unfitted to it, and altogether extraneous and hopeless. "Systems!" It is living,
truthful men we want; these will make their own systems; and let those who doubt the truth
humbly watch and wait until it is manifest to them, or go on their own arid and sorrowful ways
in what peace they can find there.

The catholic spirit of Carlyle's works cannot be better illustrated than by the fact that he
has received letters from all sorts and conditions of men, Methodists and Shakers, Churchmen
and Romanists, Deists and Infidels, all claiming his fellowship, and thinking they find their
peculiarities of thought in him. This is owing partly, perhaps, to the fact that in his earlier
writings he masked his sentiments both in Hebraic and Christian phraseology; and partly to
the lack of vision in his admirers, who could not distinguish a new thought in an old garment.
His "Cromwell" deceived not a few in this respect; and we were once asked in earnest, by a
man who should have been better informed, if Carlyle was a Puritan. Whatever he may be called,
or believed to be, one thing is certain concerning him: that he is a true and valiant man,--all
out a man!--and that literature and the world are deeply indebted to him. His mission, like
that of Jeremy Collier in a still baser age, was to purge our literature of its falsehood,
to recreate it, and to make men once more believe in the divine, and live in it. So earnest
a man has not appeared since the days of Luther, nor any one whose thoughts are so suggestive,
germinal, and propagative. All our later writers are tinged with his thought, and he has to
answer for such men as Kingsley, Newman, Froude, and others who will not answer for him, nor
acknowledge him.

In private life Carlyle is amiable, and often high and beautiful in his demeanor. He talks
much, and, as we have said, well; impatient, at times, of interruption, and at other times
readily listening to those who have anything to say. But he hates babblers, and cant, and sham,
and has no mercy for them, but sweeps them away in the whirlwind and terror of his wrath. He
receives distinguished men, in the evening, at his house in Chelsea; but he rarely visits.
He used occasionally to grace the saloons of Lady Blessington, in the palmy days of her life,
when she attracted around her all noble and beautiful persons, who were distinguished by their
attainments in literature, science, or art; but he rarely leaves his home now for such a purpose.
He is at present engaged in his "Life of Frederick the Great," whom he will hardly make a hero
of, and with whom, we learn, he is already very heartily disgusted. The first volume will shortly
appear.

And now we must close this imperfect paper,--reserving for a future occasion some personal
reminiscences of him, which may prove both interesting and illustrative.

THE BUTTON-ROSE.

CHAPTER I.

I fear I have not what is called "a taste for flowers." To be sure, my cottage home is half
buried in tall shrubs, some of which are flowering, and some are not. A giant woodbine has
wrapped the whole front in its rich green mantle; and the porch is roofed and the windows curtained
with luxuriant honeysuckles and climbing wild-roses. But, though I have tried for it many times,
I never yet had a successful bed of flowers. My next neighbor, Mrs. Smith, is "a lady of great
taste"; and when she leads me proudly through her trim alleys edged with box, and displays
her hyacinths and tulips, her heliotropes, cactuses, and gladioluses, her choice roses, "so
extremely double," and all the rare plants which adorn her parterre, I conclude it must be
that I have no taste at all. I beg her to save me seeds and bulbs, get fresh directions for
laying down, and inoculating, grafting, and potting, and go home with my head full of improvements.
But the next summer comes round with no change, except that the old denizens of the soil (like
my maids and my children) have grown more wild and audacious than ever, and I find no place
for beds of flowers. I must e'en give it up; I have no taste for flowers, in the common sense
of the words. In fact, they awaken in me no sentiment, no associations, as they stand, marshalled
for show, "in beds and curious knots"; and I do not like the care of them.

Yet let me find these daughters of the early year in their native haunts, scattered about on
hillside and in woody dingle, half hidden by green leaves, starting up like fairies in secluded
nooks, nestling at the root of some old tree, or leaning over to peep into some glassy bit
of water, and no heart thrills quicker than mine at the sight. There they seem to me to enjoy
a sweet wild life of their own; nodding and smiling in the sunshine or verdant gloom, caring
not to see or to be seen. Some of the loveliest of my early recollections are of rambles after
flowers. There was a certain "little pink and yellow flower" (so described to me by one of
my young cousins) after which I searched a whole summer with unabated eagerness. I was fairly
haunted by its ideal image. Henry von Ofterdingen never sought with intenser desire for his
wondrous blue flower, nor more vainly; for I never found it. One day, this same cousin and
myself, while wandering in the woods, found ourselves on the summit of a little rocky precipice,
and at its foot, lo! in full bloom, a splendid variety of the orchis, (a flower I had never
seen before,) looking to my astonished eyes like an enchanted princess in a fairy tale. With
a scream of joy we both sprang for the prize. Harriet seized it first, but after gazing at
it a moment with a quiet smile, presented it to me. "Kings may be blest, but I was glorious!"
I never felt so rich before or since.

But there was one flower,--and I must confess that I made acquaintance with it in a garden,
but at an age when I thought all things grew out of the blessed earth of their own sweet will,--which,
as it is the first I remember to have loved, has maintained the right of priority in my affections
to this day. Nay, many an object of deep, absorbing interest, more than one glowing friendship,
has meantime passed away, leaving no memorial but sad and bitter thoughts; while this wee flower
still lives and makes glad a little green nook in my heart. It was a Button-Rose of the smallest
species, the outspread blossom scarce exceeding in size a shilling-piece. It stood in my grandfather's
garden,--that garden which, at my first sight of it, (I was then about five years old,) seemed
to me boundless in extent, and beautiful beyond aught that I had seen or thought before. It
was a large, old-fashioned kitchen-garden, adorned and enriched, however, as then the custom
was, with flowers and fruit-trees. Several fine old pear-trees and a few of the choicest varieties
of plum and cherry were scattered over it; currants and gooseberries lined the fences; the
main alley, running through its whole extent, was thickly bordered by lilacs, syringas, and
roses, with many showy flowers intermixed, and terminated in a very pleasant grape-arbor. Behind
this rose a steep green hill covered with an apple-orchard, through which a little thread of
a footpath wound up to another arbor which stood on the summit relieved against the sky. It
was but little after sunrise, the first morning of my visit, when I timidly opened the garden
gate and stood in full view of these glories. All was dewy, glittering, fragrant, musical as
a morn in Eden. For a while I stood still, in a kind of enchantment. Venturing, at length,
a few steps forward, gazing eagerly from side to side, I was suddenly arrested by the most
marvellously beautiful object my eyes had ever seen,--no other than the little Button-Rose
of our story! So small, so perfect! It filled my infant sense with its loveliness. It grew
in a very pretty china vase, as if more precious than the other flowers. Several blossoms were
fully expanded, and many tiny buds were showing their crimson tips. As I stood lost in rapture
over this little miracle of beauty, a humming-bird, the smallest of its fairy tribe, darted
into sight, and hung for an instant, its ruby crest and green and golden plumage flashing in
the sun, over my new-found treasure. Were it not that the emotions of a few such moments are
stamped indelibly on the memory, we should have no conception in maturer life of the intenseness
of childish enjoyment. Oh for one drop of that fresh morning dew, that pure nectar of life,
in which I then bathed with an unconscious bliss! Methinks I would give many days of sober,
thoughtful, rational enjoyment for one hour of the eager rapture which thrilled my being as
I stood in that enchanted garden, gazing upon my little rose, and that gay creature of the
elements, that winged blossom, that living fragment of a rainbow, that glanced and quivered
and murmured over it.

But, dear as the Button-Rose is to my memory, I should hardly think of obtruding it on the
notice of others, were it not for a little tale of human interest connected with it. While
I yet stood motionless in the ecstasy of my first wonder, a young man and woman entered the
garden, chatting and laughing in a very lively manner. The lady was my Aunt Caroline, then
in the fresh bloom of seventeen; the young man I had never seen before. Seeing me standing
alone in the walk, my aunt called me; but as I shrunk away shy and blushing at sight of the
stranger, she came forward and took hold of my hand.

"This is our little Katy, Cousin Harry," said she, leading me towards him.

"Our little Katy's most obedient!"  replied he, taking off his broad-brimmed straw hat, and
making a flourishing bow nearly to the ground.

"Don't be afraid of him, Katy dear; he's nobody," said my aunt, laughing.

At these encouraging words I glanced up at the merry pair, and thought them almost as pretty
as the rose and hummingbird. My Aunt Caroline's beauty was of a somewhat peculiar character,--if
beauty that can be called which was rather spirit, brilliancy, geniality of expression, than
symmetrical mould of features. The large, full eye was of the deepest violet hue; the finely
arched forehead, a little too boldly cast for feminine beauty, was shaded by masses of rich
chestnut hair; the mouth,--but who could describe that mouth? Even in repose, some arch thought
seemed ever at play among its changeful curves; and when she spoke or laughed, its wonderful
mobility and sweetness of expression threw a perfect witchery over her face. She was quite
short, and, if the truth must be told, a little too stout in figure; but this was in a great
measure redeemed by a beautifully moulded neck, on which her head turned with the quickness
and grace of a wild pigeon. Every motion was rapid and decided, and her whole aspect beamed
with genius, gayety, and a cordial friendliness, which took the heart at first sight. And then,
her voice, her laugh!--not so low as Shakspeare commends in woman, but clear, musical, true-hearted,
making one glad like the song of the lark at sunrise.

Cousin Harry was a very tall, very pale, very black-haired and black-eyed young gentleman,
with a high, open brow, and a very fascinating smile.

The remainder of the garden scene was to me but little more than dumb show. Perhaps it was
more vividly remembered for that very reason. I recollect being busy filling a little basket
with strawberries, while I watched with a pleased, childish curiosity the two young people,
as they passed many times up and down the gravelled walk between the rows of flowers. I was
not far from the Button-Rose, and I had nearly filled my basket, when my aunt came to the spot
and stooped over the little plant. Her face was towards me, and I saw several large tears fall
from her eyes upon the leaves. She broke off the most beautiful blossom, and tying it up with
some sprigs of mignonette, presented it to Cousin Harry. They then left the garden.

The next day I heard it said that Cousin Harry was gone away. The little rose was brought into
the house and installed in the bow-window of my aunt's room, where it was watched and tended
by us both with the greatest care.

Some time after this, the news came that Cousin Harry was married. The next morning I missed
my little favorite from the window. My aunt was reading when I waked.

"Oh, Aunty!" I cried, "where is our little rose?"

"It was too much trouble, Katy," said she, quietly; "I have put it into the garden."

"But isn't it going to stand in our window any more?"

"No, dear, I am tired of it."

"Oh, do bring it back! I will take the whole care of it," said I, beginning to cry.

"Katy," said my aunt, taking me into her lap, and looking steadily, but kindly, into my face,
"listen to me. I do not wish to have that rose in my room any more; and if you love me, you
will never mention it again."

Something in her manner prevented my uttering a word more in behalf of the poor little exile.
As soon as I was dressed, I ran down into the garden to visit it. It looked very lonely, I
thought; I could hardly bear to leave it. The day following, it disappeared from the garden,
and old Nanny, the housemaid, told me that my aunt had given it away. I never saw it again.

Thus ended my personal acquaintance with the little Button-Rose. But that first strong impression
on my fancy was indelible. The flower still lived in my memory, surrounded by associations
which gave it a mystic charm. By degrees I ceased to miss it from the window; but that strange
garden scene grew more and more vivid, and became a cabinet picture in one of the little inner
chambers of memory, where I often pondered it with a delicious sense of mystery. The rose and
humming-bird seemed to me the chief actors in the magic pantomime, and they were some way connected
with my dear Aunt Linny and the black-eyed young man; but what it all meant was the great puzzle
of my busy little brain. It has sometimes been a matter of curious speculation to me, what
share that diminutive flower had in the development of my mind and character. With it, so it
seems to me, began the first dawn of a conscious inner life. I can still recollect with wonderful
distinctness what I have thought and felt since that date, while all the preceding years are
vague and shadowy as an ill-remembered dream. From them I can only conjure up, as it were,
my outward form,--a happy animal existence, with which scarce a feeling of self is connected;
but from the time when I bore a part in this little fragment of a romance the current of identity
flows on unbroken. From that light waking touch, perchance, the whole subsequent development
took form and tone.--But, gentle reader, your pardon! This is nothing to my story.

CHAPTER II.

Ten years had slipped away, and I was now in my sixteenth year. Of course, my little cabinet
picture had been joined by many others. It was now but one in an extensive gallery; and the
modest little gem, dimmed with dust, and hidden by larger pieces, had not been thought of for
many a day.

External circumstances had remained much the same with us; only one great change, the death
of my dear grandmother, having occurred in the family. My aunt presided over her father's household,
and the admirable order and good taste which pervaded every department bore witness how well
she understood combining the elements of a home.

Aunt Linny, now twenty-seven years of age, had lost nothing of her former attractiveness. The
brilliant, impulsive girl had but ripened into the still more lovely woman. Her cheek was not
faded nor her eye dimmed. There was the same frankness, the same heart in her glance, her smile,
the warm pressure of her hand, but tempered by experience, reflection, and self-control. One
felt that she could be loved and trusted with the whole heart and judgment. Her personal attractions,
and yet more the charm of her sensible, genial, and racy conversation, brought to our house
many pleasant visitors, and made her the sparkling centre of every circle into which she could
be drawn. But it was rarely that she could be beguiled from home; for, since her mother's death,
she had devoted herself heart and soul to her widowed father.

The relation between myself and my aunt was somewhat peculiar. Neither of us having associates
of our own age in the family, I had become her companion, and even friend, to a degree which
would have been impossible in other circumstances. She had scarcely outgrown the freshness
and simplicity of childhood when I first came to live with her, and my mind and feelings had
expanded rapidly under the constant stimulus of a nature so full of rich life; so that at the
date I now speak of, we lived together more as sisters than as aunt and niece. An inexpressible
charm rests on those days, when we read, wrote, rambled together, shared the same room, and
had every pleasure, every trouble in common. All show of authority over me had gradually melted
away; but her influence with me was still unbounded, for I loved her with the passionate earnestness
of a first, full-hearted friendship.--But to proceed with my story.

One sweet afternoon in early summer, we two were sitting alone. The windows towards the garden
were open, and the breath of lilacs and roses stole in. I had been reading to her some verses
of my own, celebrating the praise of first love as an imperishable sentiment. My fancy had
just been crazed with the poetry of L.E.L., who was then shining as the "bright particular
star" in the literary heavens.

"The lines are very pretty," said my aunt, "but I trust it's only poetizing, Kate; I should
be sorry indeed to have you join the school of romantic misses who think first love such a
killing matter."

"But, Aunty," I cried, "what a horribly prosy, matter-of-fact affair life would be in any other
view! I believe poetry itself would become extinct."

"So, then, if a woman is disappointed in first love, she is bound to die for the benefit of
poetry!"

"But just think, Aunt Linny--if Ophelia, instead of going mad so prettily, and dying in a way
to break everybody's heart, had soberly set herself to consider that there were as fine fish
yet in the sea as ever were caught, and that it was best, therefore, to cheer up and wait for
better times! Frightful!"

"Never trouble your little head, Kate, with fear that there will not be Ophelias enough, as
long as the world stands. But I wouldn't be one, if I were you, unless I could bespeak a Shakspeare
to do me into poetry. That would be an inducement, I allow. How would you fancy being a Sukey
Fay, Kate?"

"Oh, the poor old wretch, with her rags and dirt and gin-bottle! Has she a story?"

"Just as romantic a one as Ophelia, only she lacks a poet. But, in sober truth, Katy, why is
there not as true poetry in battling with feeling as in yielding to it? To me there seems something
far more lofty and beautiful in bearing to live, under certain circumstances, than in daring
to die."

"If you only spoke experimentally, dear Aunty! Oh that Plato, or John Milton, or Sir Philip
Sydney would reappear, and lay all his genius and glory at your feet! I wonder if you'd be
of the same mind then!"

"And then, of course, this sublime suitor must die, or desert me, to show how I would behave
under the trial.--Katy," continued my aunt, after a little pause, with a smile and slight blush,
"I have half a mind to tell you a little romance of my early days, when I was just your age.
It may be useful to you at this point of your life."

"Is it possible?" cried I,--"a romance of your early days! Quick, let me hear!"

"I shouldn't have called it a romance, Katy; for as a story, it is just nothing. It has no
interest except as marking the beginning of my education,--the education, I mean, of real life."

"But let me hear; there's some spice of poetry in it, I know."

"Well, then, it's like many another story of early fancy. In my childhood I had a playmate.
Our fathers' houses stood but a few rods apart, and the families lived in habits of the closest
intimacy. From my earliest remembrance, the brave little boy, four years older than I, was
my sworn friend and protector; and as we increased in years, an affection warm and frank as
that of brother and sister grew up between us. A love of nature and of poetry, and a certain
earnestness and enthusiasm of character, which separated us both from other children, drew
us closely together. At fifteen he left us to fit for college at a distant school, and thenceforward
he was at home only for brief visits, till he was graduated with distinguished honor at the
age of twenty-one. During those six years of separation our relation to each other had suffered
no change. We had corresponded with tolerable regularity, and I had felt a sister's pride in
his talents and literary honors. When, therefore, he returned home to recruit his health, which
had been seriously impaired by study and confinement, I welcomed him with great joy, and with
all the frankness of former times.

"Again we read, chatted, and rambled together. I found him unchanged in character, but improved,
cultivated, to a degree which delighted, almost awed me. When he read our favorite authors
with his rich, musical voice, and descanted on their beauties with discriminating taste and
fervent poetic feeling, a new light fell on the page. Through his eyes I learned to behold
in nature a richness, a grace, a harmony, a meaning, only vaguely felt before. It was as if
I had just received the key to a mysterious cipher, unlocking deep and beautiful truths in
earth and sea and sky, by which they were invested with a life and splendor till now unseen.
But it was his noble sentiments, his generous human sympathies, his ardent aspirations after
honorable distinction to be won by toil and self-denial, which woke my heart as by an electric
touch. My own unshaped, half-conscious aims and aspirations, stirred with life, took wing and
soared with his into the pure upper air. Ah! it was a bright, beautiful dream, Kate, the life
of those few months. I never once thought of love, nor of the possibility of separation. All
flowed so naturally from our life-long intimacy, that I had not the slightest suspicion of
the change which had come over me. But the hour of waking was at hand. We had looked forward
to the settled summer weather for a marked improvement in his health. But June had come and
he still seemed very delicate. His physician prescribed travelling and change of climate; and
though his high spirits had deceived me as to his real danger, I urged him to go. He left us
to visit an elder brother residing in one of the Middle States. Ten years this very month!"
added Aunt Linny, with an absent air.

"Ten years ago this very month," I exclaimed, "did my distinguished self arrive at this venerable
mansion. What a singular conjunction of events! No doubt our horoscopes would reveal some strange
entanglement of destinies at this point. Perchance I, even I, was 'the star malign' whose rising
disturbed the harmonious movement of the spheres!"

"No doubt of it; the birth of a mouse once caused an earthquake, you know."

"But could I have seen him? Did I arrive before he had left?"

"Oh, yes, very likely; but of course you can have no recollection of him, such a chit as you
were then."

"What was his name?" I cried, eagerly. A long-silent chord of memory began to give forth a
vague, uncertain murmur.

"Oh, no matter, Kate. I would a little rather you shouldn't know. It doesn't affect the moral
of the story, which was all I had in view in relating it."

"A plague take the moral, Aunty! The romance is what I want; and what's that without 'the magic
of a name'?"

"Excuse me."

"Tell me his Christian name, then,--just for a peg to hang my ideas on; that is, if it's meat
for romance. If it is Isaac or Jonathan, you needn't mention it."

"Well, then, you tease,--I called him Cousin Harry."

"Cousin Harry!" I screamed, starting forward, and staring at her with eyes wide open.

"Yes; but what ails you, child? You glare upon me like a maniac."

"Hush! hush! don't speak!" said I.

As I sunk back, in a sort of dream, into the rocking-chair in which I had been idling, the
garden caught my eye through the open window. The gate overarched with honeysuckle, the long
alley with its fragrant flowering border, the grape arbor, the steep green hill behind, lay
before me in the still, rich beauty of June. In a twinkling, memory had swept the dust from
my little cabinet picture, and let in upon it a sudden light. The ten intervening years vanished
like a dream, and that long-forgotten garden scene started up, vivid as in the hour when it
actually passed before my eyes. The clue to that mystery which had so spellbound my childish
fancy was at length found. I sat for a time in silence, lost in a delicious, confused reverie.

"The Button-Rose was a gift from him, then?" were my first words.

"What, Kate?" said Aunt Linny, now opening her large blue eyes with a strange look.

"Did you give away the flower-pot too? That was so pretty! Whom did you give it to?"

"Incredible!" she exclaimed, coloring, and with the strongest expression of surprise. "Truly,
little pitchers have not been slandered!"

"But the wonderful humming-bird, Aunty! What had that to do with it?"

"Kate," said my aunt, "you talk like one in sleep. Wake up, and let me know what all this means."

"I see it all now!" I rattled on, more to myself than her. "First young love,--parting gift,--Cousin
Harry proves fickle,--Aunt Linny banishes the Button-Rose from her window,--takes to books,
and educating naughty nieces, and doing good to everybody,--'bearing to live,' as more heroic
than 'daring to die,'--in ten years gets so that she can speak of it with composure, as a lesson
to romantic girls. So?"

"Even so, Katy!" she replied, quietly; "and to that early disappointment I owe more than to
anything that ever befell me."

She said this with a smile; but her voice trembled a little, and I perceived that a soft dew
had gathered over her eyes. By an irresistible impulse I rose, and stealing softly behind her,
clasped my arms round her neck, and kissing her forehead whispered, "Forgive me, sweet Aunty!"

"Not a bit of harm, Katy," she replied, drawing me down for a warm kiss. "But what a gypsy
you must be," she added, in her usually lively tone, "to have trudged along so many years with
this precious little bundle, and said never a word to anybody!"

"I've not thought of it myself, these ever so many years," said I, "and it seems like witchwork
that it should all have come to me at this moment."

I then related to her my childish reminiscences and speculations, which amused her not a little.
Her hearty, mirthful zest showed that the theme was not a disquieting one. I now begged her
to proceed with her story.

"But stay a moment," said I; "let me fetch our garden bonnets, that we may enjoy it in the
very scene of the romance."

"Ah, Kate, you are bent on making a heroine of me!" was the reply, as she took her seat in
the grape arbor; "but there are really no materials. I shall finish in fifteen minutes by my
watch, and you'll drop me as an Ophelia, I venture to say. Cousin Harry had left us, as I told
you, to visit his brother. For some months his letters were very frequent, and as the time
approached for his return they grew increasingly cheerful, and--Katy, I cannot but excuse myself
in part, when I recall the magic charm of those letters. But no matter; all of a sudden they
ceased, and for several weeks not a word was heard from him by his own family. At length, when
my anxiety had become wellnigh intolerable, there came a brief letter to his father, announcing
his marriage with the sister of his brother's wife, and his decision to enter into business
with his brother."

"Did you know anything of the young lady?"

"He had once or twice mentioned her in his letters as a beautiful, amiable creature, whose
education had been shamefully neglected. Her kindness to him in his illness and loneliness,
added to her natural charms, won his heart, no doubt many a wise man has been caught in that
snare."

"But what base conduct towards you!"

"Not at all, my dear! My dream had suffused his words with its own coloring,--that was all.
As soon as reason could make her voice heard, I acquitted him of all blame. His feelings towards
me had been those of a brother,--no more."

"But why, then, did he cease to write? why not share his new happiness with so dear a friend?"

"That was not unnatural, after what he had said of the young lady's deficiencies. Probably
the awkwardness of the thing led him to defer writing from time to time, till he had become
so absorbed in his domestic relations and his business, that he had ceased to think of it.
Life's early dewdrops often exhale in that way, Kate!"

"Then life is a hateful stupidity!"

"Yes; if it could be morning all day, and childhood could outlast our whole lives, it would
be very charming. But life has jewels that don't exhale, Kate, but sparkle brightest in the
hottest sun. These lie deep in the earth, and to dig them out requires more than a child's
strength of heart and arm. One must be well inured to toil and weather before he can win these
treasures; but when once he wears these in his bosom he doesn't sigh for dewdrops."

"Well, let me hear how you were inured."

"The news of this marriage revealed to me, as by a flash of lightning, my whole inner world
of feeling. When I knew that he was forever lost, I first knew what he had become to me. The
pangs of disappointment, of self-humiliation,--I hardly know which were the stronger,--were
like poisoned arrows in my heart. It was my first trouble, and I had to bear it in silence
and alone. Not for worlds would I have had it guessed that I had cherished an unreturned affection,
and it would have killed me to hear him blamed. Towards him I had, in my most secret heart,
no emotion of resentment or reproach. A feeling of dreary loss, of a long, weary life from
which all the flowers had vanished, a sort of tender self-pity, filled my heart. It is not
worth while to detail the whole process by which I gradually forced myself out of this miserable
state. One thing helped me much. As soon as the first bitterness of my heart was passed, I
saw clearly that the indulgence of such a sentiment towards one who was now the husband of
another could not be innocent. It must not be merely concealed; it must be torn up, root and
branch. With this steadily before my mind as the central point of my efforts, I worked my way
step by step. First came the removal of the numerous little mementos of those happy days in
dreamland, the sight of which softened my heart into weakness and vain regret. Next I threw
aside my favorite works of imagination and feeling, and for two years read scarcely a book
which did not severely task my mind. I devoted myself more to my mother, and interested myself
in the poor and sick. Last, not least, I resolved on taking the whole charge of your education,
Katy; and of my various specifics, I think I would recommend the training of such an elf as
the 'sovereignest remedy' for first love. The luxuriant growth of your character interested,
stimulated, kept me perpetually on the alert. I soon began to work con amore at this task;
my spirits caught at times the contagious gayety of yours; my poor heart was refreshed by your
warm childish love. In short, I began to live again. But, ah! dear Kate, it was a long, stern
conflict. Many, many months, yes, years, passed by, ere those troubled waters became clear
and still. But I held firmly on my way, and the full reward came at last. By degrees I had
created within and around me a new world of interest and activity, in which this little whirlpool
of morbid feeling became an insignificant point. I was conscious of the birth of new energies,
of a bolder and steadier sweep of thought, of fuller sympathies, of that settled quiet and
harmony of soul which are to be gained only in the school of self-discipline. That dream of
my youth now lies like a soft cloud far off in the horizon, beautiful with the morning tints
of memory, but casting no shadow."

She paused; then added, in a lively tone: "Well, Kate, the fifteen minutes are not out, and
yet my story is done. Think you now it would really have been better to go a-swinging on a
willow-tree over a pond, and so have made a good poetical end?"

"Oh, I am so glad you were not such a goose as to make a swan of yourself, like poor Ophelia!"
said I, throwing my arms around her, and giving her half a dozen kisses. "But tell me truly,
was I indeed such a blessing to you, 'the very cherubim that did preserve thee'? To think of
the repentance I have wasted over my childish naughtiness, when it was all inspired by your
good angel! I shall take heed to this hint."

"Do so, Kate, and your good angel will doubtless inspire in me a suitable response."

"But tell me now, Aunt Linny, who the living man was. Was he a real cousin?"

"I may as well tell you, Kate, or you will get it from your 'familiar.' You have heard of our
rich cousin in Cuba, Henry Morrison?"

"Oh, yes; I have heard grandfather speak of him. So, then, he was Cousin Harry! I should like
one chance at his hair, for all his goodness. Did you ever meet again?"

"Never. His father's family soon removed to a distant place, so that there was no necessity
for visiting the old home. But I have always heard him spoken of as an upright merchant and
a cultivated and generous man. He has resided several years in Cuba. A year or two since, he
went to Europe for his wife's health, and there she died. Rumor now reports him as about to
become the husband of an Englishwoman of high connections. I should be very glad to see him
once more.--But come now, Kate, let's have a decennial celebration of our two anniversaries.
Lay the tea-table in the grape arbor, and then invite grandpapa to a feast of strawberries
and cream."

I hastily ornamented our rural banquet-hall with long branches of roses and honeysuckles in
full bloom, stuck into the leafy roof. As we sat chatting and laughing over our simple treat,
a humming-bird darted several times in and out. "A messenger!" whispered I to Aunt Linny. "Depend
upon it, Cousin Harry didn't marry the English lady."

CHAPTER III.

The next morning I slept late. Fancy had all night been busy, combining her old and new materials
into many a wild shape. After my aunt had risen at her usual early hour, I fell into one of
those balmy morning-naps which make up for a whole night's unrest. I dreamed still, but the
visions floated by with that sweet changeful play which soothes rather than fatigues the brain.
The principal objects were always the same; but the combination shifted every instant, as by
the turn of a kaleidoscope. At length they arranged themselves in a lovely miniature scene
in a convex mirror. There bloomed the little Button-Rose in the centre, and above it the humming-bird
glanced and murmured, and now and then darted his slender bill deep into the bosom of the flowers.
With hands clasped above this central object, as if exchanging vows upon an altar, stood the
young human pair. Of a sudden, old Cornelius Agrippa was in the room, robed in a black scholar's-gown,
over which his snowy beard descended nearly to his knees. Stretching forth a long white wand,
he touched the picture, and immediately a wedding procession began to move out of the magic
crystal, the figures, as they emerged, assuming the size of life. First tripped a numerous
train of white-robed little maidens, scattering flowers; then came a priest in surplice and
bands, holding before him a great open service-book; after him, the bridal pair, attended by
their friends. But by an odd trick of fancy, the bridegroom, who looked very stately and happy,
appeared with the china flower-pot containing the Button-Rose balanced on the end of his nose!
Awaked by my own laughter at this comical sight, I opened my eyes and found Aunt Linny sitting
on the bedside and laughing with me.

"I should have waked you before, Katy," said she, "if you had not seemed to be enjoying yourself
so much. Come, unfold your dream. I presume it will save me the trouble of telling you the
contents of this wonderful epistle which I hold in my hand."

"It's from Cousin Harry! Huzza!"  cried I, springing up to snatch it.

But she held it out of my reach. "Softly! good Mistress Fortuneteller," said she. "Read me
the letter without seeing it, and then I shall know that you can tell the interpretation thereof."

"Of course it's from Cousin Harry. That's what the humming-bird came to say last night. As
for the contents,--he's not married,--his heart turns to the sister-friend of his youth,--he
yearns to look into her lustrous orbs once more,--she alone, he finds, is the completion of
his 'Ich'. He hastens across the dark blue sea; soon will she behold him at her feet."

"Alas, poor gypsy, thou hast lost thy silver penny this time. The letter is indeed from Cousin
Harry, and that of itself is one of life's wonders. But it is addressed with all propriety
to his 'venerable uncle.' He arrived from Europe a month since, and being now on a tour for
health and pleasure, proposes to make a hasty call on his relatives and visit the old homestead.
He brings his bride with him. Now, Kate, be stirring; they will be here to-night, and we must
look our prettiest."

"The hateful, prosy man! I'll not do anything to make his visit agreeable," said I, pettishly.

"Why, Kate, what are you conjuring up in your foolish little noddle?"

"Oh, I supposed an éclaircissement would come round somehow, and we should finish the romance
in style."

"Why, Kate, do you really wish to get rid of me?"

"No, indeed! I wouldn't have you accept his old withered heart for the world. But I wanted
you to have the triumph of rejecting it. 'Indeed, my dear cousin,'--thus you should have said,--'I
shall always be interested in you as a kinsman, but I can never love you.'"

"Kate is crazed!" she exclaimed, in a voice of despair. "Why, dear child, there is not a shadow
of foundation for this nonsense. I am heartily glad at the thought of seeing my cousin once
more, and all the gladder that he brings a wife with him. Will you read the letter?"

I read it twice, and then asked,--"Where does he mention his wife?"

"Why, there,--don't you see? 'I shall bring with me a young lady, whom, though a stranger and
a foreigner, I trust you will be pleased to welcome.' Isn't that plain?"

The inference seemed sufficiently natural; but the slight uncertainty was the basis of many
entertaining dreams through the day. I resolved to hold fast my faith in romance till the last
moment. Towards evening, when the parlors and guest-chambers had received the last touches,
when the silver had been polished, the sponge-cake and tarts baked, and our own toilette made,--when,
in short, nothing remained to be done, my excitement and impatience rose to the highest pitch.
I ran repeatedly down the avenue, and finally mounted with a pocket-telescope to the top of
the house for a more extensive survey.

"See you aught, Sister Annie?"  called my aunt from below.

"Nothing yet, good Fatima!--spin out thy prayers a little longer. Stay! a cloud of dust, a
horseman!--no doubt an outrider hastening on to announce his approach. Ah! he passes, the stupid
clown! Another! Nay, that was only a Derby wagon; the stars forbid that our deliverer should
come in a Derby! But now, hush! there's a bonâ fide barouche, two black horses, black driver
and all. Almost at the turn! O gentle Ethiopian, tarry! this is the castle! Go, then, false
man! Fatima, thy last hope is past! No, they stop! the gentleman looks out! he waves his hand
this way! Aunt Linny, 'tis he! the carriage is coming up the avenue!" So saying, I threw down
the telescope and flew to her room.

"You are right, Kate, it must be he," said she, glancing through the window, and then following
me quietly down stairs.

The carriage stopped, and we all went down the steps to receive our long absent relative. A
tall, pale gentleman in black sprang out and came hurriedly towards us. He looked much older
than I had expected; but the next instant the flash of his black eye, and the eloquent smile
which lighted up his pensive countenance as with a sunbeam, brought back the Cousin Harry of
ten years ago. He returned my grandfather's truly paternal greeting with the most affectionate
cordiality; but with scarce a reply to my aunt's frank welcome, gave her his arm, and made
a movement towards the house.

"But, cousin," said she, smiling, "what gem have you there, hidden in the carriage, too precious
to be seen? We have a place in our hearts for the fair stranger, I assure you."

"Ah, poor thing! I had quite forgotten her," said he, coloring and laughing, as he turned towards
the carriage.

Aunt Linny and I exchanged mirthful glances at this treatment of a bride; but the next instant
he had lifted out and led towards us a small female personage, who, when her green veil was
thrown aside, proved to be a lovely girl of some seven or eight years.

"Permit me," said he, smiling, "to present Miss Caroline Morrison, 'sole daughter of my house
and heart.'"

"But the stranger, the foreign lady?"  inquired Aunt Linny, as she kissed and welcomed the child.

"Why, this is she,--this young Cuban! Whom else did you look for?" was the reply, in a tone
of surprise, and, as it seemed to me, of slight vexation.

"We expected a lady with a few more years on her head," interposed grandpapa; "but the little
pet is just as welcome. There, Katy, this curly-pate will answer as well as a wax doll for you."

The dear old gentleman could never realize that I was grown up to be a woman. Of course, I
was now introduced in due form, and we went together up the steps.

"How pleasant, how familiar all things look!" said our visitor, pausing and gazing round him.
"Why, uncle, you must have had your house, and yourself, and everything about you insured against
old age. Nothing has changed except to improve. I see the very picture I carried with me ten
years ago."

The tears stood in my grandfather's eyes. "You have forgotten one great change, dear nephew,"
said he; "against that we could find no insurance."

"How could I forget?" was the answer, in a low tone, full of feeling, his own eyes filling
with moisture. "My dear aunt! I shed many tears with and for you, when I heard of her death."
He looked extremely amiable at this moment; I knew that I should love him.

My aunt smiled through her tears, and said, very sweetly, "The thought of her should cheer,
and not cloud our meeting. Her presence never brought me sorrow, nor does her remembrance.
Come, dear," she added, cheerfully, taking the child's hand, "come in and rest your poor little
tired self. Kate, find the white kitten for her. A prettier one you never saw in France or
Cuba, Miss Carrie,--that's what papa calls you, I suppose?"

"It used to be my name," said the little smiler; "but papa always calls me Linny now, because
he thinks it sweeter."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What say you to the humming-bird now?" I whispered to my aunt, as we were a moment alone in
the tea-room.

"Kate, I wish you were fifty miles off at this moment! It was no good angel that deluded me
into telling you that foolish tale last evening. Indeed, Kate," added she, earnestly, "you
will seriously compromise me, if you are not more careful. Promise me that you will not make
one more allusion of this kind, even to me, while they remain!"

"But I may give you just a look, now and then?"

"Do you wish me to repent having trusted you, Kate?"

"I promise, aunty,--by my faith in first love!"

"Nonsense! Go, call them to tea."

CHAPTER IV.

Our kinsman had been easily persuaded to remain with us a week, and a charming week it had
been to all of us. He had visited all the West India Islands, and the most interesting portions
of England and the Continent. My grandfather, who, as the commander of his own merchant-ship,
had formerly visited many foreign countries, was delighted to refresh his recollections of
distant scenes, and to live over again his adventures by sea and land. The conversation of
our guest with his uncle was richly instructive and entertaining; for he had a lively appreciation
of national and individual character, and could illustrate them by a world of amusing anecdote.
The old veteran's early fondness for his nephew revived in full force, and his enjoyment was
alloyed only by the dread of a new separation. "What shall I do when you are gone, Harry!"
was his frequent exclamation; and then he would sigh and shake his head, and wish he had one
son left.

But the richest treat for my aunt and me was reserved till the late evening, when the dear
patriarch had retired to rest. Those warm, balmy nights on the piazza, with the moonlight quivering
through the vines, and turning the terraced lawn with fantastic mixture of light and shadow
into a fairy scene, while the cultivated traveller discoursed of all things beautiful in nature
and art, were full of witchery. Mont Blanc at sunrise, the wild scenery of the Simplon, the
exhumed streets of Pompeii, the Colosseum by moonlight, those wondrous galleries of painting
and sculpture of which I had read as I had read of the palace of Aladdin and the gardens of
the genii,--the living man before me had seen all these! I looked upon him as an ambassador
from the world of poetry. But even this interested me less than the tone of high and manly
sentiment by which his conversation was pervaded, the feeling reminiscences of endeared friendships
formed in those far-off lands, the brief glimpses of deep sorrows bravely borne; and I watched
with a sweet, sly pleasure my aunt's quiet surrender to the old spell.

"It makes me very happy, Kate," said she one day, "to have found my cousin and friend again.
I am glad to feel that friendships springing from the pure and good feelings of the heart are
not so transient as I have sometimes been tempted to think them. They may be buried for years
under a drift of new interests; but give them air, and they will live again."

"What is that remark of Byron about young ladies' friendship? Take care, take care!" said I,
shaking my head, gravely; "receive the warning of a calm observer!"

"Oh, no, Kate! this visit is but a little green oasis in the desert. In a day or two we shall
separate, probably forever; but both, I doubt not, will be happier through life for this brief
reunion. His plan is to make his future residence in France."

At the end of the week our kinsman left us for a fortnight's visit to the metropolis. Intending
to give us a call on his return south, he willingly complied with our desire to leave his little
girl with us. As we were sitting together in my aunt's room after his departure, the child
brought her a small packet which her father had intrusted to her. "I believe," said the little
smiler, "he said it was a story for you to read. Won't you please to read it to me?" She took
it with a look of surprise and curiosity, and immediately opened it and began to read. But
her color soon began to vary, her hand trembled, and presently laying down the sheets in her
lap, she sat lost in thought.

"It seems a moving story!" I remarked, dryly.

"Kate, this is the strangest affair!--But I can't tell you now; I must read it first alone."

She left the room, and I heard the key turn in the lock as she entered another chamber. In
about an hour she came out very composedly, and said nothing more on the subject.

After our little guest was asleep at night, I could restrain myself no longer. "You are treating
me shabbily, aunty," said I. "See if I am ever a good girl again to please you!"

"You shall know it all, Katy; I only wished to think it over first by myself. There, take the
letter; but make no note or comment till I mention it again."

       *       *       *       *       *

The letter of Cousin Harry seemed to me rather matter-of-fact, I must confess, till near the
end, where he spoke of a little nosegay which he enclosed, and which would speak to her of
dear old times.

"But where is the nosegay, aunty?"

With a beautiful flush, as if the sunset of that vanished day were reddening the sky of memory,
she drew a small packet from her bosom, and in it I found a withered rose-bud tied up with
a shrivelled sprig of mignonette.

I am afraid that my Aunt Linny's answer was a great deal more proper than I should have wished;
and yet, with all its emphatic expressions of duty towards her father and the impossibility
of leaving him, there must have been something between the lines which I could not read. I
have since discovered that all such epistles have their real meaning concealed in some kind
of more rarefied sympathetic ink, which betrays itself only under the burning hands of a lover.

"So, then," said Aunt Linny, as she was sealing this letter, "you see, Katy, that your romance
has come to an untimely end."

I turned round her averted face with both my hands, and looked in her eyes till she blushed
and laughed in spite of herself.

"My knowledge of symptoms is not large," said I, "but I have a conviction that his health will
now endure a northern climate."

"Let's talk no more of this!" said she, putting me aside with a gentle gravity, which checked
my nonsense. But as I was unable to detect in her, on this or the following day, the slightest
depression of spirits, I shrewdly guessed that our anticipations of the result were not very
dissimilar.

The next return post brought, not the expected letter, but our hero himself. I was really amazed
at the change in his appearance. Erect, elastic, his face radiant with expression, he looked
years younger than at his first arrival. I caught Aunt Linny's eloquent glance of surprise
and pleasure as they met. For a moment the bridal pair of my dream stood living before me;
then vanished even more suddenly than that fancy show of the old magician. When we again met,
two or three hours after, my aunt's serene smile and dewy eyes told me that all was right.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a month the wedding took place, and the "happy pair" started off on a few weeks' excursion.
As I was helping my aunt exchange her bridal for her travelling attire, I whispered, "What
say you to my doctrine of first love, aunty?"

"That it finds its best refutation in my experience. No, believe me, dearest Katy, the true
jewel of life is a spirit that can rule itself, that can subject even the strongest, dearest
impulses to reason and duty. Without it, indeed," she added, with a soft earnestness, "affection
towards the worthiest object becomes an unworthy sentiment--And besides, Kate,"--here her eye
gleamed with girlish mirth--"you see, if I had made love my all, I should have missed it all.
Not even Cousin Harry's constancy would have been proof against a withered, whining, sentimental
old maid."

"Well, you will allow that it's a great paradox, aunty! If you believe in my doctrine, it turns
out a mere delusion; if you don't believe in it, 'tis sure to come true."

"Take care, then, and disbelieve in it with all your might!" said she, laughing, and kissing
me, as we left her room,--my room alone henceforth. A shadow seemed to fill it, as she passed
the threshold.

OUR BIRDS, AND THEIR WAYS.

Among our summer birds, the vast majority are but transient visitors, born and bred far to
the northward, and returning thither every year. The North, then, is their proper domicile,
their legal "place of residence," which they have never renounced, but only temporarily desert,
for special reasons. Their sojourn with us, or farther south, is merely an exile by stress
of climate, like the flitting of the Southern planters from the rice-fields to the mountains
in summer, or the pleasure tour or watering-place visit customary with the citizens of Boston
and New York.

The lower orders, such as the humming-bird with his insect-like stomach and sucking-tube, and
so on up through the warblers and flycatchers, more strictly bound by the necessities of their
life, closely follow the sun,--while the upper-ten-thousand, the robins, cedar-birds, sparrows,
etc., like man, omnivorous in their diet and their attendant chevaliers d'industrie, the rapacious
birds, allow themselves greater latitude, and go and come occasionally at all seasons, though
in general tending to the south in winter and north in summer. But precedence before all is
due to permanent residents, with whom our intercourse is not of this transitory and fair-weather
sort. Such are the crow, the blue jay, the chickadee, the partridge, and the quail, who may
be called regular inhabitants, though perhaps all of them wander occasionally from one district
to another. Besides these, perhaps some of the hawks and owls remain here throughout the year.
But the species I have named are the only ones that occur to me as equally numerous at all
seasons in the immediate vicinity of Boston, and never out of town, whether you take the census
in May or in January.

In spite of our uninterrupted acquaintance with them, however, there are still many of the
nearest questions concerning these birds for which I find no sufficient answers. Even to the
first question--How do they get their living?--there are only vague replies in the books.

There is the crow, for example. I have seen crows in the neighborhood of Boston every week
of the year, and in not very different numbers. My friend the ornithologist said to me last
winter, "You will see that they will be off as soon as the ground is well covered with snow."
But on the contrary, when the snow came, and after it had lain deep on the fields for many
days, I saw more than before,--probably because they found it easier to get food in the neighborhood
of the houses and cultivated grounds.

A crow must require certainly half a pound of animal food, or its equivalent, daily, in order
to keep from starving. Yet they not only do not starve that I hear of, but seem to keep in
as good case in winter as in summer, though what they find to eat is not immediately apparent.
The vague traditional suggestion of "carrion," as of dead horses and the like, does not help
us much. Some scraps doubtless may be left lying about, but any reliable stores of this kind
are hardly to be looked for in this neighborhood. A few scattered kernels of corn, perhaps
on a pinch a few berries, he may pick up; though I suspect the crow is somewhat human in his
tastes, and, besides animal food, affects only the cereals. The frogs are deep in the mud.
Now and then a squirrel or a mouse may be had; but they are mostly dozing in their holes. As
for larger game, rabbits and the like, the crow is hardly nimble enough for them, nor are his
claws well adapted for seizing; anything of this kind he will scarcely get, except as the leavings
of the weasel or skunk. These he will not refuse; for though he is of a different species from
the carrion crow of Europe, with whom he was formerly confounded, yet he is of similar, though
perhaps less extreme, tastes as to his food. But when the ground is freshly covered with snow,
all supplies of this sort would seem to be cut off, for the time at least. Yet who ever found
a starved crow, or even saw one driven by hunger from any of his accustomed caution? He is
ever the same alert, vivacious, harsh-tongued wanderer over the white fields as over the summer
meadows.

A partial solution of the mystery is to be found in the habit which the bird has in common
with most of the crow kind, of depositing any surplus food in a place of safety for future
use. A tame crow that I saw last year was constantly employed in this way. As soon as his hunger
was satisfied, if a piece of meat was given to him, he flew off to some remote spot, and there
covered it up with twigs and leaves. I was told that the woods were full of these caches of
his. Bits of bread and the like he was too well-fed to care much about, but he would generally
go through the form of covering them, at your very feet, with a little rubbish, not taking
the trouble to hide them. Meanwhile his hunting went on as if he still had his living to get,
and he would watch for field-mice, or come flying in from the woods with a squirrel swinging
from his claws, either for variety's sake, or because he had really forgotten the stores he
had laid up. Scattered magazines of this kind, established in times of accidental plenty, may
render life during our winters possible to the crow.

But why should he give himself so much trouble to subsist here, when a few hours' work with
those broad wings would bear him to a land of tropical abundance? The crow, it seems, is not
a mere eating and drinking machine, drawn hither and thither by the balance of supply and demand,
but has his motives of another sort. Is it, perhaps, some local attachment, so that a crow
hatched in Brookline, for example, would be more loath than another to quit that neighborhood,--a
sort of crow patriotism, akin to that which keeps the Greenlanders slowly starving of cold
and hunger on that awful coast of theirs.

It is not probable, however, that the crow allows himself to suffer much from these causes;
he is far too knowing for that, and shows his position at the head of the bird kind by an almost
total emancipation from scruples and prejudices, and by the facility with which he adapts himself
to special cases. Instinct works by formulas, which, as it were, make up the animal, so that
the ant and the bee are atoms of incarnate constructiveness and acquisitiveness, and nothing
else. And as intelligence, when its action is too narrowly concentrated, whether upon pin-making
or money-making, tends to degenerate into mere instinct,--so instinct, when it begins to compare,
and to except, and to vary its action according to circumstances, shows itself in the act of
passing into intelligence. This marks the superiority of the crow over birds it often resembles
in its actions. Most birds are wary. The crow is wary, and something more. Other shy birds,
for instance ducks, avoid every strange object. The crow considers whether there be anything
dangerous in the strangeness. An ordinary scarecrow will not keep our crow from anything worth
a little risk. He fathoms the scarecrow, compares its behavior, under various circumstances,
with that of the usual wearer of its garments, and decides to take the risk. To protect his
corn, the farmer takes advantage of this very discursiveness, and stretches round the field
a simple line, nothing in itself, but hinting at some undeveloped mischief which the bird cannot
penetrate.

Again, the crow is sometimes looked upon as a mere marauder; but this description also is much
too narrow for him. He is anxious only for his dinner, and swallows seed-corn and noxious grubs
with perfect impartiality. He is not a mere pirate, living by plunder alone, but rather like
the old Phoenician sea-farer, indifferently honest or robber as occasion serves,--and robber
not from fierceness of disposition, but merely from utter unscrupulousness as to means.

This is shown in his docility. A hawk or an eagle is never tamed, but a crow is more easily
and completely tamable than the gentlest singing-bird. The one I have just spoken of, though
hardly six months from the nest, would allow himself to be handled by his owner, and would
suffer even a stranger to touch him. When I first came near the house, he greeted me with a
suppressed caw, and flew along some hundred yards just over my head, looking down, first with
one eye and then with the other, to get a complete view of the stranger. Next morning I became
aware, when but half awake, of a sort of mewing sound in the neighborhood, and at last looking
around, I saw through the window, which opened to the floor, my new acquaintance perched on
the porch roof, which was at the same level, turning his head from side to side, and eyeing
me through the glass with divers queer contortions and gesticulations, reminding me of some
odd, old, dried-up French dancing-master, and with a varied succession of croakings, now high,
now low, evidently bent upon attracting my attention. When he had succeeded, he flew off with
loud, joyous caws to the top of the house, where I heard him rolling nuts or acorns from the
ridge, and flying to catch them before they fell off.

Their independence of seasons is shown also in their habit of associating in about equal numbers
throughout the year. In the spring the flocks are more noticeable, hovering about some grove
of pines, flying straight up in the air and swooping down again with an uninterrupted cawing,--seemingly
a sort of crow ball, with a view to match-making. Afterwards they become more silent, and apparently
more solitary, but still fly out to their feeding-grounds morning and evening; and if you sit
down in the woods near one of their nests, the uneasy choking chuckle, ending at last in the
outright cawing of the disturbed owner, will generally be answered from every point, and crow
after crow come edging up from tree to tree to see what is the matter.

Though all of the crow tribe are notorious for their harsh voices, yet if the power of mimicry
be considered as a mark of superiority, the crow has claims to high rank in this department
also. The closest imitators of the human voice are birds of this family: for instance, the
Mino bird. Our crow also is a vocal mimic, and that not in the matter-of-course way of the
mocking-bird, but, as it were, more individual and spontaneous. He is not merely an imitator
of the human voice, like the parrots, (and a better one as regards tone,) nor of other birds,
like the thrushes, but combines both. The tame crow already mentioned very readily undertook
extempore imitations of words, and with considerable success. I once heard a crow imitate the
warbling of a small bird, in a tone so entirely at variance with his ordinary voice, that,
though assured by one who had heard him before, that it was a crow and nothing else, it was
only on the clearest proof that I could satisfy myself of the fact. It seemed to be quite an
original and individual performance.

The blue jay is a near relative of the crow, and, like him, omnivorous, harsh-voiced, predaceous,
a robber of birds' nests; so that if you hear the robins during their nesting-time making an
unusual clamor about the house, the chances are you will get a glimpse of this brilliant marauder,
sneaking away with a troop of them in pursuit. His usual voice is a harsh scream, but he has
some low flute-like notes not without melody. The presence of a hawk, or more particularly
an owl in the woods, is often made known by the screaming of the jays, who flock together about
him with ever-increasing noise, like a troop of jackals about a lion, pressing in upon him
closer and closer in a paroxysm of excitement, while the owl, thus taken at disadvantage, sidles
along his bough seeking concealment, and at length softly flaps off to some more undisturbed
retreat.

The blue jay is a shy bird, but he is enough of a crow to take a risk where anything is to
be had for it, and in winter will come close to the house for food. In his choice of a nesting-place
he seems at first sight to show less than his usual caution; for, though the nest is a very
conspicuous one, it is generally made in a pine sapling not far from the ground, and often
on a path or other opening in the woods. But perhaps, in the somewhat remote situations where
he builds, the danger is less from below than from birds of prey sailing overhead. I once found
a blue jay's nest on a path in the woods somewhat frequented by me, but not often trodden by
any one else, and passed it twice on different days, and saw the bird sitting, but took some
pains not to alarm her. The next time, and the next, she was not there; and on examination
I found the nest empty, though with no marks of having been robbed. There was not time for
the eggs to have hatched, and it was plain, that, finding herself observed, she had carried
them off.

As a general thing, the severity of our winters does not seem much to affect the birds that
stay with us. I have found chickadees and some of the smaller sparrows apparently frozen to
death, but the extravasation of blood usual in such cases leaves us in doubt whether some accident
may not have first disabled the bird; and if dead birds are more often found in winter than
in summer, it may be only that the body keeps longer, and, from the absence of grass and leaves,
and the white covering of the ground, is more readily seen. At all events, such specimens are
not usually emaciated, and sometimes they are in remarkably good case, which, considering the
rapid circulation and the corresponding waste of the body, shows that the cold had not affected
their activity and their power of obtaining food.

The truth is, that birds are remarkably well guarded against cold by their quick circulation,
their dense covering of down and feathers, and the ease with which they can protect their extremities.
The chickadee is never so lively as in clear, cold weather;--not that he is absolutely insensible
to cold; for on those days, rare in this neighborhood, when the mercury falls to fifteen degrees
or more below zero, the chickadee shows by his behavior that he, too, feels it to be an exceptional
state of things. Of such a morning I have seen a small flock of them collected on the sunny
side of a thick hemlock, rather silent and quiet, with ruffled plumage, like balls of gray
fur, waiting, with an occasional chirp, for the sun's rays to begin to warm them up, and meanwhile
not depressed, but only a little sobered in their deportment, and ready, if the cold continued,
to get used to that too.

The matter of food-supply during the winter for the smaller birds is more easily understood
than in the case of the crow. The seeds of grasses and the taller summer flowers, and of the
birches, alders, and maples, furnish supplies that are not interfered with by cold or snow;
also the buds of various trees and shrubs,--for the buds do not first come into existence in
the spring, as our city friends suppose, but are to be found all winter. Nor is insect-life
suspended at this season to the extent that a careless observer might suppose. A sunny, sheltered
nook, at any time during the winter, will show you a variety of two-winged flies, and several
species of spiders, often in considerable abundance, and as brisk as ever. And the numbers
of eggs, and larvae, and of the lurking tenants of crevices in tree-bark and dead wood, may
be guessed by the incessant and assuredly not aimless activity of the chickadees and gold-crests
and their associates.

This winter activity of the birds ought to be taken into account by those who accuse them of
mischief-doing in summer. In winter, at least, no mischief can be done; there is no fruit to
steal; and even sap-sucking, if such a practice at any time be not altogether fabulous, certainly
cannot be carried on now. Nothing can be destroyed now except the farmer's enemies, or at best
neutrals. Yet the birds keep at work all the time.

The only bird that occurs to me as a proved sufferer from famine in the winter is the quail.
This is the most limited in its range of all our birds. Not only does it not migrate, (or only
exceptionally,) but it does not even wander much,--the same covey keeping all the year, and
even year after year, to the same feeding-ground. Nor does it ever seek its food upon trees,
like the partridge, but solely upon the ground.

The quail is our nearest representative of the common barn-yard fowl. This it resembles in
many respects, and among others, in its habit of going a-foot, except when the covey crosses
from one feeding or roosting ground to another, or when the cock-bird mounts upon a rail-fence
or stone-wall to sound his call in the spring. This persistence exposes the quail to hardship
when the ground is covered with snow, and the fruit of the skunk-cabbage and all the berries
and grain are inaccessible. He takes refuge at such times in the smilax-thickets, whose dense,
matted covering leaves an open feeding-ground below. But a snowy winter always tells upon their
numbers in any neighborhood. Whole coveys are said to have been found dead, frozen stiff, under
the bush where they had huddled together for warmth; and even before this extremity, their
hardships lay them open to their enemies, and the fox and the weasel, and the farmer's boy
with his box-trap, destroy them by wholesale. The deep snows of 1856 and 1857 have nearly exterminated
them hereabouts; and I was told at Vergennes, in Vermont, that there were quails there many
years ago, but that they had now entirely disappeared.

The appearance and disappearance of species within our experience teach us that Nature's lists
are not filled once for all, but that the changes which geology shows in past ages continue
into the present. Sometimes we can trace the immediate cause, or rather occasion, as in the
case of the quail's congeners, the pinnated grouse, and the wild turkey, both of them inhabitants
of all parts of the State in the early times. The pinnated grouse has been seen near Boston
within the present century, but is now exterminated, I believe, except in Martha's Vineyard.
The wild turkey was to be found not long since in Berkshire, but probably it has become extinct
there too. Sometimes, for no reason that we can see, certain species forsake their old abodes,
as the purple martin, which within the last quarter-century has receded some twenty miles from
the seaboard,--or appear where they were before unknown, as the cliff swallow, which was first
seen in the neighborhood of the Rocky Mountains, but within about the same space of time has
become as common hereabouts as any of the genus. In examples so conspicuous the movement is
obvious enough; but in the case of rarer species, for instance, the olive-sided flycatcher,
who can tell whether, when first observed, it was new to naturalists merely, or to this part
of the country, or to the earth generally? The distinction sometimes made in such cases between
accidental influences and the regular course of nature is a superficial one. The regular course
of nature is in itself a series of accidental influences; that is, the particular occasion
is subservient to a general law with which it does not seem at first sight to have any connection.
A severe winter may be sufficient to kill the quails, just as the ancient morass was sufficient
to drown the mastodon. But the question is, why these causes began to operate just at these
times. We may as well stop with the evident fact, that the unresting circulation is forever
going on in the universe.

But if the quail, who is here very near his northern limits, has a hard time of it in the winter,
and is threatened with such "removal" as we treat the Indians to, his relative, the partridge,
our other gallinaceous or hen-like bird, is of a tougher fibre, as you see when you come upon
his star-like tracks across the path, eight or nine inches apart, and struck sharp and deep
in the snow, or closer together among the bushes, where he stretched up for barberries or buds,
and ending on either side with a series of fine parallel cuts, where the sharp-pointed quills
struck the snow as he rose,--a picture of vigor and success. He knows how to take care of himself,
and to find both food and shelter in the evergreens, when the snow lies fresh upon the ground.
There, in some sunny glade among the pines, he will ensconce himself in the thickest branches,
and whir off as you come near, sailing down the opening with his body balancing from side to side.

The partridge is altogether a wilder and more solitary bird than the quail, and does not frequent
cultivated fields, nor make his nest in the orchard, as the quail does, but prefers the shelf
of some rocky ledge under the shadow of the pines in remote woods. He is one of the few birds
found in the forest; for it is a mistake to suppose that birds abound in the forest, or avoid
the neighborhood of man. On the contrary, you may pass days and weeks in our northern woods
without seeing more than half a dozen species, of which the partridge is pretty sure to be
one. All birds increase in numbers about settlements,--even the crow, though he is a forest
bird too. Hence, no doubt, has arisen the notion that the crow (supposed to be of the same
species with the European) made his appearance in this country first on the Atlantic coast,
and gradually spread westward, passing through the State of New York about the time of the
Revolution. I was told some years since by a resident of Chicago, that the quails had increased
eight-fold in that vicinity since he came there. The fact is, that the bird population, like
the human, in the absence of counteracting causes, will continue to expand in precise ratio
to the supply of food. The partridge goes farther north than the quail, and is found throughout
the United States. With us he affects high and rocky ground, but northward he keeps at a lower
level. At the White Mountains, the regions of this species and of the Canada grouse or spruce
partridge are as well defined in height as those of the maples and the "black growth." Still
farther north I have observed that our partridge frequents the lowest marshy ground, thus equalizing
his climate in every latitude.

There are few of our land-birds that flock together in summer, and few that are solitary in
winter,--none that I recollect, except birds of prey. And not only do birds of the same kind
associate, but certain species are almost always found together. Thus, the chickadee, the golden-crested
wren, the white-breasted nuthatch, and, less constantly, the brown creeper and the downy woodpecker,
form a little winter clique, of which you do not often see one of the members without one or
more of the others. No sound in nature more cheery and refreshing than the alternating calls
of a little troop of this kind echoing through the glades of the woods on a still, sunny day
in winter: the vivacious chatter of the chickadee, the slender, contented pipe of the gold-crest,
and the emphatic, business-like hank of the nuthatch, as they drift leisurely along from tree
to tree. The winter seems to be the season of holiday enjoyment to the chickadee, and he is
never so evidently and conspicuously contented as in very cold weather. In summer he withdraws
to the thickets, and becomes less noisy and active. His plumage becomes dull, and his brisk
note changes to a fine, delicate pee-peh-wy, or oftenest a mere whisper. They are so much less
noticeable at this season that one might suppose they had followed their gold-crest companions
to the North, as some of them doubtless do, but their nests are not uncommon with us. Fearless
as the chickadee is in winter,--so fearless, that, if you stand still, he will alight upon
your head or shoulder,--in summer he becomes cautious about his nest, and will desert it, if
much watched. They build here, generally, in a partly decayed white-birch or apple-tree, excavating
a hole eighteen inches or two feet deep,--the chips being carefully carried off a short distance,
so as not to betray the workman,--and lining the bottom of it with a felting of soft materials,
generally rabbits' fur, of which I have taken from one hole as much as could be conveniently
grasped with the hand.

Besides the species that we regularly count upon in winter, there are more or less irregular
visitors at this season, some of them summer birds also,--as the purple finch, cedar-bird,
gold-finch, robin, the flicker, or pigeon woodpecker, and the yellow-bellied and hairy woodpeckers.
Others, again, linger on from the autumn, and sometimes through the winter,--as the snow-bird,
song-sparrow, tree-sparrow. Still others are seen only in winter,--as the brown and shore larks,
the crossbills, redpolls, snow-buntings, pine grosbeak, and some of the hawks and owls; and
of these some are merely accidental,--as the pine grosbeak, which in 1836 appeared here in
great numbers in October, and remained until May. This beautiful and gentle bird (a sweet songster
too) is doubtless a permanent resident within the United States, for I have seen them at the
White Mountains in August. What impels them to these occasional wanderings it is difficult
to guess; it is obviously not mere stress of weather; for in 1836, as I have remarked, they
came early in autumn and continued resident until late in the spring; and their food, being
mainly the buds of resinous trees, must have been as easy to get elsewhere as here. Their coming,
like the crow's staying, is a mystery to us.

I have spoken only of the land-birds; but the position of our city, so embraced by the sea,
affords unusual opportunities for observing the sea-birds also. All winter long, from the most
crowded thoroughfares of the city, any one, who has leisure enough to raise his eyes over the
level of the roofs to the tranquil air above, may see the gulls passing to and fro between
the harbor and the flats at the mouth of Charles River. The gulls, and particularly that cosmopolite,
the herring gull, are met with in this neighborhood throughout the year, though in summer most
of them go farther north to breed. On a still, sunny day in winter, you may see them high in
the air over the river, calmly soaring in wide circles, a hundred perhaps at a time, or pluming
themselves leisurely on the edge of a hole in the ice. When the wind is violent from the west,
they come in over the city from the bay outside, strong-winged and undaunted, breasting the
gale, now high, now low, but always working to windward, until they reach the shelter of the
inland waters.

In the spring they come in greater numbers, and other species arrive: the great saddle-back,
from the similarity of coloring almost to be mistaken for the white-headed eagle, as he sits
among the broken ice at the edge of the channel; and the beautiful little Bonaparte's gull.

The ducks, too, still resort to our rivermouth, in spite of the railroads and the tall chimneys
by which their old feeding-grounds are surrounded. As long as the channel is open, you may
see the golden-eyes, or "whistlers," in extended lines, visible only as a row of bright specks,
as their white breasts rise and fall on the waves; and farther than you can see them, you may
hear the whistle of their wings as they rise. Spring and fall the "black ducks" still come
to find the brackish waters which they like, and to fill their crops with the seeds of the
eel-grass and the mixed food of the flats. In the late twilight you may sometimes catch sight
of a flock speeding in, silent and swift, over the Mill-dam, or hear their sonorous quacking
from their feeding-ground.

At least, these things were,--and not long since,--though I cannot answer for a year or two
back. The birds long retain the tradition of the old places, and strive to keep their hold
upon them; but we are building them out year by year. The memory is still fresh of flocks of
teal by the "Green Stores" on the Neck; but the teal and the "Stores" are gone, and perhaps
the last black duck has quacked on the river, and the last whistler taken his final flight.
Some of us, who are not yet old men, have killed "brown-backs" and "yellow-legs" on the marshes
that lie along to the west and south of the city, now cut up by the railroads; and you may
yet see from the cars an occasional long-booted individual, whose hopes still live on the tales
of the past, stalking through the sedge with "superfluous gun," or patiently watching his troop
of one-legged wooden decoys.

The sea keeps its own climate, and keeps its highways open, after all on the land is shut up
by frost. The sea-birds, accordingly, seem to lead an existence more independent of latitude
and of seasons. In midwinter, when the seashore watering-places are forsaken by men, you may
find Nahant or Nantasket Beach more thronged with bipeds of this sort than by the featherless
kind in summer. The Long Beach of Nahant at that season is lined sometimes by an almost continuous
flock of sea-ducks, and a constant passing and repassing are kept up between Lynn Bay and the
surf outside.

Early of a winter's morning at Nantasket I once saw a flock of geese, many hundreds in number,
coming in from the Bay to cross the land in their line of migration. They advanced with a vast,
irregular front extending far along the horizon, their multitudinous honking softened into
music by the distance. As they neared the beach the clamor increased and the line broke up
in apparent confusion, circling round and round for some minutes in what seemed aimless uncertainty.
Gradually the cloud of birds resolved itself into a number of open triangles, each of which
with its deeper-voiced leader took its way inland; as if they trusted to their general sense
of direction while flying over the water, but on coming to encounter the dangers of the land,
preferred to delegate the responsibility. This done, all is left to the leader; if he is shot,
it is said the whole flock seem bewildered, and often alight without regard to place or to
their safety. The selection of the leader must therefore be a matter of deliberation with them;
and this, no doubt, was going on in the flock I saw at Nantasket during their pause at the
edge of the beach. The leader is probably always an old bird. I have noticed sometimes that
his honking is more steady and in a deeper tone, and that it is answered in a higher key along
the line.

THE INDIAN REVOLT.

For the first time in the history of the English dominion in India, its power has been shaken
from within its own possessions, and by its own subjects. Whatever attacks have been made upon
it heretofore have been from without, and its career of conquest has been the result to which
they have led. But now no external enemy threatens it, and the English in India have found
themselves suddenly and unexpectedly engaged in a hand-to-hand struggle with a portion of their
subjects, not so much for dominion as for life. There had been signs and warnings, indeed,
of the coming storm; but the feeling of security in possession and the confidence of moral
strength were so strong, that the signs had been neglected and the warnings disregarded.

No one in our time has played the part of Cassandra with more foresight and vehemence than
the late Sir Charles Napier. He saw the quarter in which the storm was gathering, and he affirmed
that it was at hand. In 1850, after a short period of service as commander-in-chief of the
forces in India, he resigned his place, owing to a difference between himself and the government,
and immediately afterwards prepared a memoir in justification of his course, accompanied with
remarks upon the general administration of affairs in that country. It was written with all
his accustomed clearness of mind, vigor of expression, and intensity of personal feeling,--but
it was not published until after his death, which took place in 1853, when it appeared under
the editorship of his brother, Lieutenant-General Sir W.F.P. Napier, with the title of "Defects,
Civil and Military, of the Indian Government."  Its interest is greatly enhanced when read
by the light of recent events. It is in great part occupied with a narrative of the exhibition
of a mutinous spirit which appeared in 1849 in some thirty Sepoy battalions, in regard to a
reduction of their pay, and of the means taken to check and subdue it. On the third page is
a sentence which read now is of terrible import: "Mutiny with [among?]  the Sepoys is the most
formidable danger menacing our Indian empire." And a few pages farther on occurs the following
striking passage: "The ablest and most experienced civil and military servants of the East
India Company consider mutiny as one of the greatest, if not the greatest danger threatening
India,--a danger also that may come unexpectedly, and, if the first symptoms be not carefully
treated, with a power to shake Leadenhall."

The anticipated mutiny has now come, its first symptoms were treated with utter want of judgment,
and its power is shaking the whole fabric of the English rule in India.

One day toward the end of January last, a workman employed in the magazine at Barrackpore,
an important station about seventeen miles from Calcutta, stopped to ask a Sepoy for some water
from his drinking-vessel. Being refused, because he was of low caste, and his touch would defile
the vessel, he said, with a sneer, "What caste are you of, who bite pig's grease and cow's
fat on your cartridges?" Practice with the new Enfield rifle had just been introduced, and
the cartridges were greased for use in order not to foul the gun. The rumor spread among the
Sepoys that there was a trick played upon them,--that this was but a device to pollute them
and destroy their caste, and the first step toward a general and forcible conversion of the
soldiers to Christianity. The groundlessness of the idea upon which this alarm was founded
afforded no hindrance to its ready reception, nor was the absurdity of the design attributed
to the ruling powers apparent to the obscured and timid intellect of the Sepoys. The consequences
of loss of caste are so feared,--and are in reality of so trying a nature,--that upon this
point the sensitiveness of the Sepoy is always extreme, and his suspicions are easily aroused.
Their superstitions and religious customs "interfere in many strange ways with their military
duties." "The brave men of the 35th Native Infantry," says Sir Charles Napier, "lost caste
because they did their duty at Jelalabad; that is, they fought like soldiers, and ate what
could be had to sustain their strength for battle." But they are under a double rule, of religious
and of military discipline,--and if the two come into conflict, the latter is likely to give way.

The discontent at Barrackpore soon manifested itself in ways not to be mistaken. There were
incendiary fires within the lines. It was discovered that messengers had been sent to regiments
at other stations, with incitements to insubordination. The officer in command at Barrackpore,
General Hearsay, addressed the troops on parade, explained to them that the cartridges were
not prepared with the obnoxious materials supposed, and set forth the groundlessness of their
suspicions. The address was well received at first, but had no permanent effect. The ill-feeling
spread to other troops and other stations. The government seems to have taken no measure of
precaution in view of the impending trouble, and contented itself with despatching telegraphic
messages to the more distant stations, where the new rifle-practice was being introduced, ordering
that the native troops were "to have no practice ammunition served out to them, but only to
watch the firing of the Europeans." On the 26th of February, the 19th regiment, then stationed
at Berhampore, refused to receive the cartridges that were served out, and were prevented from
open violence only by the presence of a superior English force. After great delay, it was determined
that this regiment should be disbanded. The authorities were not even yet alarmed; they were
uneasy, but even their uneasiness does not seem to have been shared by the majority of the
English residents in India. It was not until the 3d of April that the sentence passed upon
the 19th regiment was executed. The affair was dallied with, and inefficiency and dilatoriness
prevailed everywhere.

But meanwhile the disaffection was spreading. The order for confining the use of the new cartridges
to the Europeans seems to have been looked upon by the native regiments as a confirmation of
their suspicions with regard to them. The more daring and evil-disposed of the soldiers stimulated
the alarm, and roused the prejudices of their more timid and unreasoning companions. No general
plan of revolt seems to have been formed, but the materials of discontent were gradually being
concentrated; the inflammable spirits of the Sepoys were ready to burst into a blaze. Strong
and judicious measures, promptly put into action, might even now have allayed the excitement
and dissipated the danger. But the imbecile commander-in-chief was enjoying himself and shirking
care in the mountains; and Lord Canning and his advisers at Calcutta seem to have preferred
to allow to take the initiative in their own way. Generally throughout Northern India the common
routine of affairs went on at the different stations, and the ill-feeling and insubordination
among the Sepoys scarcely disturbed the established quiet and monotony of Anglo-Indian life.
But the storm was rising,--and the following extracts from a letter, hitherto unpublished,
written on the 30th of May, by an officer of great distinction, and now in high command before
Delhi, will show the manner of its breaking.

"A fortnight ago no community in the world could have been living in greater security of life
and property than ours. Clouds there were that indicated to thoughtful minds a coming storm,
and in the most dangerous quarter; but the actual outbreak was a matter of an hour, and has
fallen on us like a judgment from Heaven,--sudden, irresistible as yet, terrible in its effects,
and still spreading from place to place. I dare say you may have observed among the Indian
news of late months, that here and there throughout the country mutinies of native regiments
had been taking place. They had, however, been isolated cases, and the government thought it
did enough to check the spirit of disaffection by disbanding the corps involved. The failure
of the remedy was, however, complete, and, instead of having to deal now with mutinies of separate
regiments, we stand face to face with a general mutiny of the Sepoy army of Bengal. To those
who have thought most deeply of the perils of the English empire in India this has always seemed
the monster one. It was thought to have been guarded against by the strong ties of mercenary
interest that bound the army to the state, and there was, probably, but one class of feelings
that would have been strong enough to have broken these ties,--those, namely, of religious
sympathy or prejudice. The overt ground of the general mutiny was offence to caste feelings,
given by the introduction into the army of certain cartridges said to have been prepared with
hog's lard and cow's fat. The men must bite off the ends of these cartridges; so the Mahometans
are defiled by the unclean animal, and the Hindoos by the contact of the dead cow. Of course
the cartridges are not prepared as stated, and they form the mere handle for designing men
to work with. They are, I believe, equally innocent of lard and fat; but that a general dread
of being Christianized has by some means or other been created is without doubt, though there
is still much that is mysterious in the process by which it has been instilled into the Sepoy
mind, and I question if the government itself has any accurate information on the subject.

"It was on the 10th of the present month [May] that the outburst of the mutinous spirit took
place in our own neighborhood,--at Meerut. The immediate cause was the punishment of eighty-five
troopers of the 3d Light Cavalry, who had refused to use the obnoxious cartridges, and had
been sentenced by a native court-martial to ten years' imprisonment. On Saturday, the 9th,
the men were put in irons, in presence of their comrades, and marched off to jail. On Sunday,
the 10th, just at the time of evening service, the mutiny broke out. Three regiments left their
lines, fell upon every European, man, woman, or child, they met or could find, murdered them
all, burnt half the houses in the station, and, after working such a night of mischief and
horror as devils might have delighted in, marched off to Delhi en masse, where three other
regiments ripe for mutiny were stationed. On the junction of the two brigades, the horrors
of Meerut were repeated in the imperial city, and every European who could be found was massacred
with revolting barbarity. In fact, the spirit was that of a servile war. Annihilation of the
ruling race was felt to be the only chance of safety or impunity; so no one of the ruling race
was spared. Many, however, effected their escape, and, after all sorts of perils and sufferings,
succeeded in reaching military stations containing European troops. * * *

"From the crisis of the mutiny our local anxieties have lessened. The country round is in utter
confusion. Bands of robbers are murdering and plundering defenceless people. Civil government
has practically ceased from the land. The most loathsome irresolution and incapacity have been
exhibited in some of the highest quarters. A full month will elapse before the mutineers are
checked by any organized resistance. A force is, or is supposed to be, marching on Delhi; but
the outbreak occurred on the 10th of May, and this day is the first of June, and Delhi has
seen no British colors and heard no British guns as yet. * * *

"As to the empire, it will be all the stronger after this storm. It is not five or six thousand
mutinous mercenaries, or ten times the number, that will change the destiny of England in India.
Though we small fragments of the great machine may fall at our posts, there is that vitality
in the English people that will bound stronger against misfortunes, and build up the damaged
fabric anew."

So far the letter from which we have quoted.--It was not until the 8th of June that an English
force appeared before the walls of Delhi. For four weeks the mutineers had been left in undisturbed
possession of the city, a possession which was of incalculable advantage to them by adding
to their moral strength the prestige of a name which has always been associated with the sceptre
of Indian empire. The masters of Delhi are the masters not only of a city, but of a deeply
rooted tradition of supremacy. The delay had told. Almost every day in the latter half of May
was marked by a new mutiny in different military stations, widely separated from each other,
throughout the North-Western Provinces and Bengal. The tidings of the possession of Delhi by
the mutineers stimulated the daring madness of regiments that had been touched by disaffection.
Some mutinied from mere panic, some from bitterness of hate. Some fled away quietly with their
arms, to join the force that had now swelled to an army in the city of the Great Moghul; some
repeated the atrocities of Meerut, and set up a separate standard of revolt, to which all the
disaffected and all the worst characters of the district flocked, to gratify their lust for
revenge of real or fancied wrongs, or their baser passions for plunder and unmeaning cruelty.
The malignity of a subtle, acute, semi-civilized race, unrestrained by law or by moral feeling,
broke out in its most frightful forms. Cowardice possessed of strength never wreaked more horrible
sufferings upon its victims, and the bloody and barbarous annals of Indian history show no
more bloody and barbarous page.

The course of English life in those stations where the worst cruelties and the bitterest sufferings
have been inflicted on the unhappy Europeans has been for a long time so peaceful and undisturbed,
it has gone on for the most part in such pleasant and easy quiet and with such absolute security,
that the agony of sudden alarm and unwarned violence has added its bitterness to the overwhelming
horror. It is not as in border settlements, where the inhabitants choose their lot knowing
that they are exposed to the incursions of savage enemies,--but it is as if on a night in one
of the most peaceful of long-settled towns, troops of men, with a sort of civilization that
renders their attack worse than that of savages, should be let loose to work their worst will
of lust and cruelty. The details are too recent, too horrible, and as yet too broken and irregular,
to be recounted here.

Although, at the first sally of the mutineers from Delhi against the force that had at length
arrived, a considerable advantage was gained by the Europeans, this advantage was followed
up by no decisive blow. The number of troops was too small to attempt an assault against an
army of thirty thousand men, each man of whom was a trained soldier. The English force was
unprovided with any sufficient siege battery. It could do little more than encamp, throw up
intrenchments for its own defence, and wait for attacks to be made upon it,--attacks which
it usually repulsed with great loss to the attackers. The month of June is the hottest month
of the year at Delhi; the average height of the thermometer being 92°. There, in such weather,
the force must sit still, watch the pouring in of reinforcements and supplies to the city which
it was too small to invest, and hear from day to day fresh tidings of disaster and revolt on
every hand,--tidings of evil which there could scarcely be any hope of checking, until this
central point of the mutiny had fallen before the British arms. A position more dispiriting
can scarcely be imagined; and to all these causes for despondency were added the incompetency
and fatuity of the Indian government, and the procrastination of the home government in the
forwarding of the necessary reinforcements.

Delhi has been often besieged, but seldom has a siege been laid to it that at first sight would
have appeared more desperate than this. The city is strong in its artificial defences, and
Nature lends her force to the native troops within the walls. If they could hold out through
the summer, September was likely to be as great a general for them as the famous two upon whom
the Czar relied in the Crimea. A wall of gray stone, strengthened by the modern science of
English engineers, and nearly seven miles in circumference, surrounds the city upon three sides,
while the fourth is defended by a wide offset of the Jumna, and by a portion of the high, embattled,
red stone wall of the palace, which almost equals the city wall in strength, and is itself
more than a mile in length. Few cities in the East present a more striking aspect from without.
Over the battlements of the walls rise the slender minarets and shining domes of the mosques,
the pavilions and the towers of the gates, the balustraded roofs of the higher and finer houses,
the light foliage of acacias, and the dark crests of tall date-palms. It is a new city, only
two hundred and twenty-six years old. Shah Jehan, its founder, was fond of splendor in building,
was lavish of expense, and was eager to make his city imperial in appearance as in name. The
great mosque that he built here is the noblest and most beautiful in all India. His palace
might be set in comparison with that of Aladdin; it was the fulfilment of an Oriental voluptuary's
dream. All that Eastern taste could devise of beauty, that Eastern lavishness could fancy of
adornment, or voluptuousness demand of luxury, was brought together and displayed here. But
its day of splendor was not long; and now, instead of furnishing a home to a court, which,
if wicked, was at least magnificent, it is the abode of demoralized pensioners, who, having
lost the reality, retain the pride and the vices of power. For years it has been utterly given
over to dirt and to decay. Its beautiful halls and chambers, rich with marbles and mosaics,
its "Pearl" musjid, its delicious gardens, its shady summer-houses, its fountains, and all
its walks and pleasure-grounds, are neglected, abused, and occupied by the filthy retainers
of an effete court.

The city stands partly on the sandy border of the river, partly on a low range of rocks. With
its suburbs it may contain about one hundred and sixty thousand inhabitants, a little more
than half of whom are Hindoos, and the remainder nominally Mahometans, in creed. Around the
wall stretches a wide, barren, irregular plain, covered, mile after mile, with the ruins of
earlier Delhis, and the tombs of the great or the rich men of the Mahometan dynasty. There
is no other such monumental plain as this in the world. It is as full of traditions and historic
memories as of ruins; and in this respect, as in many others, Delhi bears a striking resemblance
to Rome,--for the Roman Campagna is the only field which in its crowd of memories may be compared
with it, and the imperial city of India holds in the Mahometan mind much the same place that
Rome occupies in that of the Christian.

Before these pages are printed it is not unlikely that the news of the fall of Delhi will have
reached us. The troops of the besiegers amounted in the middle of August to about five thousand
five hundred men. Other troops near them, and reinforcements on the way, may by the end of
the month have increased their force to ten thousand. At the last accounts a siege train was
expected to arrive on the 3d of September, and an assault might be made very shortly afterwards.
But September is an unhealthy month, and there may be delays. Dehli door ust,--"Delhi is far
off,"--is a favorite Indian proverb. But the chances are in favor of its being now in British
hands.[1] With its fall the war will be virtually ended,--for the reconquest of the disturbed
territories will be a matter of little difficulty, when undertaken with the aid of the twenty
thousand English troops who will arrive in India before the end of the year.

The settlement of the country, after these long disturbances, cannot be expected to take place
at once; civil government has been too much interrupted to resume immediately its ordinary
operation. But as this great revolt has had in very small degree the character of a popular
rising, and as the vast mass of natives are in general not discontented with the English rule,
order will be reëstablished with comparative rapidity, and the course of life will before many
months resume much of its accustomed aspect.

The struggle of the trained and ambitious classes against the English power will but have served
to confirm it. The revolt overcome, the last great danger menacing English security in India
will have disappeared. England will have learnt much from the trials she has had to pass through,
and that essential changes will take place within a few years in the constitution of the Indian
government there can be no doubt. But it is to be remembered that for the past thirty years,
English rule in India has been, with all its defects, an enlightened and beneficent rule. The
crimes with which it has been charged, the crimes of which it has been guilty, are small in
amount, compared with the good it has effected. Moreover, they are not the result of inherent
vices in the system of government, so much as of the character of exceptional individuals employed
to carry out that system, and of the native character itself.--But on these points we do not
propose now to enter.

If the close of this revolt be not stained with retaliating cruelties, if English soldiers
remember mercy, then the whole history of this time will be a proud addition to the annals
of England. For though it will display the incompetency and the folly of her governments, it
will show how these were remedied by the energy and spirit of individuals; it will tell of
the daring and gallantry of her men, of their patient endurance, of their undaunted courage,
and it will tell, too, with a voice full of tears, of the sorrows, and of the brave and tender
hearts, and of the unshaken religious faith supporting them to the end, of the women who died
in the hands of their enemies. The names of Havelock and Lawrence will be reckoned in the list
of England's worthies, and the story of the garrison of Cawnpore will be treasured up forever
among England's saddest and most touching memories.

[Footnote 1: It is earnestly to be hoped that the officers in command of the British force
will not yield to the savage suggestions and incitements of the English press, with regard
to the fate of Delhi. The tone of feeling which has been shown in many quarters in England
has been utterly disgraceful. Indiscriminate cruelty and brutality are no fitting vengeance
for the Hindoo and Mussulman barbarities. The sack of Delhi and the massacre of its people
would bring the English conquerors down to the level of the conquered. Great sins cry out for
great punishments,--but let the punishment fall on the guilty, and not involve the innocent.
The strength of English rule in India must be in her justice, in her severity,--but not in
the force and irresistible violence of her passions. To destroy the city would be to destroy
one of the great ornaments of her empire,--to murder the people would be to commence the new
period of her rule with a revolting crime.

"For five days," says the historian, "Tamerlane remained a tranquil spectator of the sack and
conflagration of Delhi and the massacre of its inhabitants, while he was celebrating a feast
in honor of his victory. When the troops were wearied with slaughter, and nothing was left
to plunder, he gave orders for the prosecution of his march, and on the day of his departure
he offered up to the Divine Majesty the sincere and humble tribute of grateful praise."

"It is said that Nadir Shah, during the massacre that he had commanded, sat in gloomy silence
in the little mosque of Rokn-u-doulah, which stands at the present day in the Great Bazaar.
Here the Emperor and his nobles at length took courage to present themselves. They stood before
him with downcast eyes, until Nadir commanded them to speak, when the Emperor burst into tears
and entreated Nadir to spare his subjects."]

SKIPPER IRESON'S RIDE.

SOLITUDE AND SOCIETY.

I fell in with a humorist, on my travels, who had in his chamber a cast of the Rondanini Medusa,
and who assured me that the name which that fine work of art bore in the catalogues was a misnomer,
as he was convinced that the sculptor who carved it intended it for Memory, the mother of the
Muses. In the conversation that followed, my new friend made some extraordinary confessions.
"Do you not see," he said, "the penalty of learning, and that each of these scholars whom you
have met at S., though he were to be the last man, would, like the executioner in Hood's poem,
guillotine the last but one?" He added many lively remarks, but his evident earnestness engaged
my attention, and, in the weeks that followed, we became better acquainted. He had great abilities,
a genial temper, and no vices; but he had one defect,--he could not speak in the tone of the
people. There was some paralysis on his will, that, when he met men on common terms, he spoke
weakly, and from the point, like a flighty girl. His consciousness of the fault made it worse.
He envied every daysman and drover in the tavern their manly speech. He coveted Mirabeau's
don terrible de la familiarité, believing that he whose sympathy goes lowest is the man from
whom kings have the most to fear. For himself, he declared that he could not get enough alone
to write a letter to a friend. He left the city; he hid himself in pastures. The solitary river
was not solitary enough; the sun and moon put him out. When he bought a house, the first thing
he did was to plant trees. He could not enough conceal himself. Set a hedge here; set oaks
there,--trees behind trees; above all, set evergreens, for they will keep a secret all the
year round. He went to Vienna, to Smyrna, to London. In all the variety of costumes, a carnival,
a kaleidoscope of clothes, to his horror he could never discover a man in the street who wore
anything like his own dress. He would have given his soul for the ring of Gyges. His dismay
at his visibility had blunted the fears of mortality. "Do you think," he said, "I am in such
great terror of being shot,--I, who am only waiting to shuffle off my corporeal jacket, to
slip away into the back stars, and put diameters of the solar system and sidereal orbits between
me and all souls,--there to wear out ages in solitude, and forget memory itself, if it be possible?"

These conversations led me somewhat later to the knowledge of similar cases, existing elsewhere,
and to the discovery that they are not of very infrequent occurrence. Few substances are found
pure in nature. Those constitutions which can bear in open day the rough dealing of the world
must be of that mean and average structure,--such as iron and salt, atmospheric air, and water.
But there are metals, like potassium and sodium, which, to be kept pure, must be kept under
naphtha. Such are the talents determined on some specialty, which a culminating civilization
fosters in the heart of great cities and in royal chambers. Nature protects her own work. To
the culture of the world, an Archimedes, a Newton is indispensable; so she guards them by a
certain aridity. If these had been good fellows, fond of dancing, Port, and clubs, we should
have had no "Theory of the Sphere," and no "Principia." They had that necessity of isolation
which genius feels. Each must stand on his glass tripod, if he would keep his electricity.
Even Swedenborg, whose theory of the universe is based on affection, and who reprobates to
weariness the danger and vice of pure intellect, is constrained to make an extraordinary exception:
"There are also angels who do not live consociated, but separate, house and house; these dwell
in the midst of heaven, because they are the best of angels."

We have known many fine geniuses have that imperfection that they cannot do anything useful,
not so much as write one clean sentence. 'Tis worse, and tragic, that no man is fit for society
who has fine traits. At a distance, he is admired; but bring him hand to hand, he is a cripple.
One protects himself by solitude, and one by courtesy, and one by an acid, worldly manner,--each
concealing how he can the thinness of his skin and his incapacity for strict association. But
there is no remedy that can reach the heart of the disease, but either habits of self-reliance
that should go in practice to making the man independent of the human race, or else a religion
of love. Now he hardly seems entitled to marry; for how can he protect a woman, who cannot
protect himself?

We pray to be conventional. But the wary Heaven takes care you shall not be, if there is anything
good in you. Dante was very bad company, and was never invited to dinner. Michel Angelo had
a sad, sour time of it. The ministers of beauty are rarely beautiful in coaches and saloons.
Columbus discovered no isle or key so lonely as himself. Yet each of these potentates saw well
the reason of his exclusion. Solitary was he? Why, yes; but his society was limited only by
the amount of brain Nature appropriated in that age to carry on the government of the world.
"If I stay," said Dante, when there was question of going to Rome, "who will go? and if I go,
who will stay?"

But the necessity of solitude is deeper than we have said, and is organic. I have seen many
a philosopher whose world is large enough for only one person. He affects to be a good companion;
but we are still surprising his secret, that he means and needs to impose his system on all
the rest. The determination of each is from all the others, like that of each tree up into
free space. 'Tis no wonder, when each has his whole head, our societies should be so small.
Like President Tyler, our party falls from us every day, and we must ride in a sulky at last.
Dear heart! take it sadly home to thee, there is no coöperation. We begin with friendships,
and all our youth is a reconnoitring and recruiting of the holy fraternity that shall combine
for the salvation of men. But so the remoter stars seem a nebula of united light, yet there
is no group which a telescope will not resolve, and the dearest friends are separated by impassable
gulfs. The coöperation is involuntary, and is put upon us by the Genius of Life, who reserves
this as a part of his prerogative. 'Tis fine for us to talk: we sit and muse, and are serene,
and complete; but the moment we meet with anybody, each becomes a fraction. But how insular
and pathetically solitary are all the people we know! Nor dare they tell what they think of
each other, when they meet in the street. We have a fine right, to be sure, to taunt men of
the world with superficial and treacherous courtesies!

Such is the tragic necessity which strict science finds underneath our domestic and neighborly
life, irresistibly driving each adult soul as with whips into the desert, and making our warm
covenants sentimental and momentary. We must infer that the ends of thought were peremptory,
if they were to be secured at such ruinous cost. They are deeper than can be told, and belong
to the immensities and eternities. They reach down to that depth where society itself originates
and disappears,--where the question is, Which is first, man or men?--where the individual is
lost in his source.

But this banishment to the rocks and echoes no metaphysics can make right or tolerable. This
result is so against nature, such a half-view, that it must be corrected by a common sense
and experience. "A man is born by the side of his father, and there he remains."  A man must
be clothed with society, or we shall feel a certain bareness and poverty, as of a displaced
and unfurnished member. He is to be dressed in arts and institutions, as well as body-garments.
Now and then a man exquisitely made can live alone, and must but coop up most men, and you
undo them. "The king lived and ate in his hall with men, and understood men," said Selden.
When a young barrister said to the late Mr. Mason, "I keep my chamber to read law." "Read law!"
replied the veteran, "'tis in the courtroom you must read law." Nor is the rule otherwise for
literature. If you would learn to write, 'tis in the street you must learn it. Both for the
vehicle and for the aims of fine arts, you must frequent the public square. The people, and
not the college, is the writer's home. A scholar is a candle, which the love and desire of
all men will light. Never his lands or his rents, but the power to charm the disguised soul
that sits veiled under this bearded and that rosy visage is his rent and ration. His products
are as needful as those of the baker or the weaver. Society cannot do without cultivated men.
As soon as the first wants are satisfied, the higher wants become imperative.

'Tis hard to mesmerize ourselves, to whip our own top; but through sympathy we are capable
of energy and endurance. Concert exasperates people to a certain fury of performance they can
rarely reach alone. Here is the use of society: it is so easy with the great to be great! so
easy to come up to an existing standard!--as easy as it is to the lover to swim to his maiden,
through waves so grim before. The benefits of affection are immense; and the one event which
never loses its romance is the alighting of superior persons at our gate.

It by no means follows that we are not fit for society, because soirées are tedious, and because
the soirée finds us tedious. A backwoodsman, who had been sent to the university, told me,
that when he heard the best-bred young men at the law-school talk together, he reckoned himself
a boor; but whenever he caught them apart, and had one to himself alone, then they were the
boors, and he the better man. And if we recall the rare hours when we encountered the best
persons, we then found ourselves, and then first society seemed to exist. That was society,
though in the transom of a brig, or on the Florida Keys.

A cold, sluggish blood thinks it has not facts enough to the purpose, and must decline its
turn in the conversation. But they who speak have no more,--have less. 'Tis not new facts that
avail, but the heat to dissolve everybody's facts. Heat puts you in right relation with magazines
of facts. The capital defect of cold, arid natures is the want of animal spirits. They seem
a power incredible, as if God should raise the dead. The recluse witnesses what others perform
by their aid with a kind of fear. It is as much out of his possibility, as the prowess of Coeur-de-Lion,
or an Irishman's day's work on the railroad. 'Tis said, the present and the future are always
rivals. Animal spirits constitute the power of the present, and their feats are like the structure
of a pyramid. Their result is a lord, a general, or a boon-companion. Before these, what a
base mendicant is Memory with his leathern badge! But this genial heat is latent in all constitutions,
and is disengaged only by the friction of society. As Bacon said of manners, "To obtain them,
it only needs not to despise them," so we say of animal spirits, that they are the spontaneous
product of health and of a social habit. "For behavior, men learn it, as they take diseases,
one of another."

But the people are to be taken in very small doses. If solitude is proud, so is society vulgar.
In society, high advantages are set down to the individual as disadvantages. We sink as easily
as we rise, through sympathy. So many men whom I know are degraded by their sympathies, their
native aims being high enough, but their relation all too tender to the gross people about
them. Men cannot afford to live together on their merits, and they adjust themselves by their
demerits,--by their love of gossip, or sheer tolerance and animal good-nature. They untune
and dissipate the brave aspirant.

The remedy is, to reinforce each of these moods from the other. Conversation will not corrupt
us, if we come to the assembly in our own garb and speech, and with the energy of health to
select what is ours and reject what is not. Society we must have; but let it be society, and
not exchanging news, or eating from the same dish. Is it society to sit in one of your chairs?
I cannot go to the houses of my nearest relatives, because I do not wish to be alone. Society
exists by chemical affinity, and not otherwise.

Put any company of people together with freedom for conversation, and a rapid self-distribution
takes place into sets and pairs. The best are accused of exclusiveness. It would be more true
to say, they separate as oil from water, as children from old people, without love or hatred
in the matter, each seeking his like; and any interference with the affinities would produce
constraint and suffocation. All conversation is a magnetic experiment. I know that my friend
can talk eloquently; you know that he cannot articulate a sentence: we have seen him in different
company. Assort your party, or invite none. Put Stubbs and Byron, Quintilian and Aunt Miriam,
into pairs, and you make them all wretched. 'Tis an extempore Sing-Sing built in a parlor.
Leave them to seek their own mates, and they will be as merry as sparrows.

A higher civility will reëstablish in our customs a certain reverence which we have lost. What
to do with these brisk young men who break through all fences, and make themselves at home
in every house? I find out in an instant if my companion does not want me, and ropes cannot
hold me when my welcome is gone. One would think that the affinities would pronounce themselves
with a surer reciprocity. Solitude is impracticable, and society fatal. We must keep our head
in the one, and our hands in the other. The conditions are met, if we keep our independence,
yet do not lose our sympathy. These wonderful horses need to be driven by fine hands. We require
such a solitude as shall hold us to its revelations when we are in the street and in palaces;
for most men are cowed in society, and say good things to you in private, but will not stand
to them in public. But let us not be the victims of words.

AKIN BY MARRIAGE.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER III

When little Helen was not far from nine years old, her mother, (as she had learned to call
Mrs. Bugbee,) whose health for a long time had been failing, fell sick and took to her bed.
Sometimes, for a brief space, she would seem to mend a little; and a council of doctors, convened
to consider her case,--though each member differed from all the others touching the nature
of her malady,--unanimously declared she would ultimately recover. But her disease, whatever
it was, proved to be her mortal illness; for the very next night she came suddenly to her end.
Her loss was a heavy one, especially to her own household. She had always been a quiet person,
of rather pensive humor, whose native diffidence caused her to shrink from observation; and
after Amelia's death she was rarely seen abroad, except at meeting, on Sundays, or when she
went to visit the poor, the sick, or the grief-stricken. It was at home that her worth was
most apparent; for plain domestic virtues, such as hers, seldom gain wide distinction. Her
children's sorrow was deep and lasting, and the badge of mourning which her husband wore for
many months after her death was a truthful symbol of unaffected grief. From the beginning,
he was warmly attached to his wife, whose affection for him was very great indeed. It would
have been strange if he had been unhappy, when she, who made his tastes her study, also made
it the business of her life to please him. Besides, his cheerful temper enabled him to make
light of more grievous misfortunes than the getting of a loving wife and thrifty helpmeet ten
years older than himself.

When a widower, like the Doctor, is but fifty, with the look of a much younger man, people
are apt to talk about the chances of his marrying again. Before Mrs. Bugbee had been dead a
twelve-month, rumors were as plenty as blackberries that the Doctor had been seen, late on
Sunday evenings, leaving this house, or that house, the dwelling-place of some marriageable
lady; and if he had finally espoused all whom the gossips reported he was going to marry, he
would have had as many wives as any Turkish pasha or Mormon elder. It was doubtless true that
he called at certain places more frequently than had been his custom in Mrs. Bugbee's lifetime.
This, he assured Cornelia, to whom the reports I have mentioned occasioned some uneasiness,
was because he was more often summoned to attend, in a professional way, at those places, than
he had ever been of old; which was true enough, I dare say, for more spinsters and widows were
taken ailing about this time than had ever been ill at once before. Be that as it may, certain
arrangements which the Doctor presently made in his domestic affairs did not seem to foretoken
an immediate change of condition.

Miss Statira Blake, whom the Doctor engaged as housekeeper, was the youngest daughter of an
honest shoemaker, who formerly flourished at Belfield Green, where he was noted for industry,
a fondness for reading, a tenacious memory, a ready wit, and a fluent tongue. In politics he
was a radical, and in religion a schismatic. The little knot of Presbyterian Federalist magnates,
who used to assemble at the tavern to discuss affairs of church and state over mugs of flip
and tumblers of sling, regarded him with feelings of terror and aversion. The doughty little
cobbler made nothing of attacking them single-handed, and putting them utterly to rout; for
he was a dabster at debate, and entertained as strong a liking for polemics as for books. Nay,
he was a thorn in the side of the parson himself, for whom he used to lie in wait with knotty
questions,--snares set to entrap the worthy divine, in the hope of beguiling him into a controversy
respecting some abstruse point of doctrine, in which the cobbler, who had every verse of the
Bible at his tongue's end, was not apt to come off second best.

But one day, Tommy Blake, being at a raising where plenty of liquor was furnished, (as the
fashion used to be,) slipped and fell from a high beam, and was carried home groaning with
a skinful of broken bones. He died the next day, poor man, and his bedridden widow survived
the shock of witnessing his dreadful agonies and death but a very little while. Her daughters,
two young girls, were left destitute and friendless. But Major Bugbee, to whom the cobbler's
wife had been remotely akin, and who was at that time first selectman of the town, took the
orphans with him to his house, where they tarried till he found good places for them. Roxana,
the elder girl, went to live with a reputable farmer's wife, whose only son she afterwards
married. Statira remained under the shelter of the good Major's hospitable roof much longer
than her sister did, and would have been welcome to stay, but she was not one of those who
like to eat the bread of dependence. With the approval of the selectmen, she bound herself
an indentured apprentice to Billy Tuthill, the little lame tailor, for whom she worked faithfully
four years, until she had served out her time and was mistress of her trade, even to the recondite
mystery of cutting a double-breasted swallow-tail coat by rule and measure. Then, at eighteen,
she set up business for herself, going from house to house as her customers required, working
by the day. Her services were speedily in great demand, and she was never out of employment.
Many a worthy citizen of Belfield well remembers his first jacket-and-trowsers, the handiwork
of Tira Blake. The Sunday breeches of half the farmers who came to meeting used to be the product
of her skilful labor. Thus for many years (refusing meanwhile several good offers of marriage)
she continued to ply her needle and shears, working steadily and cheerfully in her vocation,
earning good wages and spending but little, until the thrifty sempstress was counted well to
do, and held in esteem according. Sometimes, when she got weary, and thought a change of labor
would do her good, she would engage with some lucky dame to help do housework for a month or
two. She was a famous hand at pickling, preserving, and making all manner of toothsome knick-knacks
and dainties. Nor was she deficient in the pleasure walks of the culinary art. Betsey Pratt,
the tavernkeeper's wife, a special crony of Statira's, used always to send for her whenever
she was in straits, or when, on some grand occasion, a dinner or supper was to be prepared
and served up in more than ordinary style. So learned was she in all the devices of the pantry
and kitchen, that many a young woman in the parish would have given half her setting-out, and
her whole store of printed cookery-books, to know by heart Tira Blake's unwritten lore of rules
and recipes. So, wherever she went, she was welcome, albeit not a few stood in fear of her;
for though, when well treated, she was as good-humored as a kitten, when provoked, especially
by a slight or affront, her wrath was dangerous. Her tongue was sharper than her needle, and
her pickles were not more piquant than her sarcastic wit. Tira, the older people used to remark,
was Tommy Blake's own daughter; and truly, she did inherit many of her father's qualities,
both good and bad, and not a few of his crotchets and opinions. In fine, she was a shrewd,
sensible, Yankee old maid, who, as she herself was wont to say, was as well able to take care
of 'number one' as e'er a man in town.

Statira never forgot Major Bugbee's kindness to her in her lonely orphanhood. She preserved
for him and for every member of his family a grateful affection; but her special favorite was
James, the Doctor's brother, who was a little younger than she, and who repaid this partiality
with hearty good-will and esteem. When he grew up and married, his house became one of Statira's
homes; the other being at her sister's house, which was too remote from Belfield Green to be
at all times convenient. So she had rooms, which she called alike her own, at both these places,
in each of which she kept a part of her wardrobe and a portion of her other goods and chattels.
The children of both families called her Aunt Statira, but, if the truth were known, she loved
little Frank Bugbee, James's only son, better than she did the whole brood of her sister Roxy's
flaxen-pated offspring. Nay, she loved him better than all the world besides. Statira used
to call James her right-hand man, asking for his advice in every matter of importance, and
usually acting in accordance with it. So, when Doctor Bugbee invited her to take charge of
his household affairs, Cornelia joining in the request with earnest importunity, she did not
at once return a favorable reply, though strongly inclined thereto, but waited until she had
consulted James and his wife, who advised her to accept the proffered trust, giving many sound
and excellent reasons why she ought to do so.

Accordingly, a few months after Mrs. Bugbee's death, Statira began to sway the sceptre where
she had once found refuge from the poor-house; for though Cornelia remained the titular mistress
of the mansion, Statira was the actual ruler, invested with all the real power. Cornelia gladly
resigned into her more experienced hands the reins of government, and betook herself to occupations
more congenial to her tastes than housekeeping. Whenever, afterwards, she made a languid offer
to perform some light domestic duty, Statira was accustomed to reply in such wise that the
most perfect concord was maintained between them. "No, my dear," the latter would say, "do
you just leave these things to me. If there a'n't help enough in the house to do the work,
your pa'll get 'em; and as for overseein', one's better than two." But sometimes, when little
Helen proffered her assistance, Tira let the child try her hand, taking great pains to instruct
her in housewifery, warmly praising her successful essays, and finding excuses for every failure.
It was not long before a cordial friendship subsisted between the teacher and her pupil.

The Doctor, of course, experienced great contentment at beholding his children made happy,
his house well kept and ordered, his table spread with plentiful supplies of savory victuals,
and all his domestic concerns managed with sagacity and prudence, by one upon whose goodwill
and ability to promote his welfare he could rely with implicit confidence. Even the servants
shared in the general satisfaction; for though, under Tira's vigorous rule, no task or duty
could be safely shunned or slighted, she proved a kind and even an indulgent mistress to those
who showed themselves worthy of her favor. Old Violet, the mother of Dinah, the little black
girl elsewhere mentioned, yielded at once to Tira Blake the same respectful obedience that
she and her ancestors, for more than a century in due succession, had been wont to render only
to dames of the ancient Bugbee line. Dinah herself, now a well-grown damsel, black, but comely,
who, during Cornelia's maladministration, had been suffered to follow too much the devices
and desires of her own heart, setting at naught alike the entreaties and reproofs of her mistress
and her mother's angry scoldings,--even Dinah submitted without a murmur to Tira's wholesome
authority, and abandoned all her evil courses. Bildad Royce, a crotchety hired-man, whom the
Doctor kept to do the chores and till the garden, albeit at first inclined to be captious,
accorded to the new housekeeper the meed of his approbation.

"I like her well enough to hope she'll stay, mum," quoth he, in reply to an inquisitive neighbor.
"And for my part, Miss Prouty," he added, nodding and winking at his questioner, "I'd like
to see it fixed so she'd alwus stay; and if the Doctor doos think he can't do no better'n to
have her bimeby, when the time comes, who's a right to say a word agin it?"

"Goodness me!" exclaimed the unwary Mrs. Prouty,--"do you mean to say you think he's got any
idea of such a thing, Bildad?"

"Yes, I don't mean to say I think he's got any idee of sich a thing, Bildad," replied Bildad
himself, who took great delight in mystifying people, and who sometimes, in order to express
the most unqualified negation, was accustomed to employ this apparently ambiguous form of speech.
"I said for my part, Miss Prouty,--for my part. As for the Doctor, he'll prob'bly have his
own notions, and foller 'em."

Besides these already mentioned, there was another person, who sat so often at the Doctor's
board and spent so many hours beneath his roof, that, for the nonce, I shall reckon her among
his family. Indeed, Laura Stebbins was almost as much at home in the Bugbee mansion as at the
parsonage, and she used to regard the Doctor and his wife with an affection quite filial in
kind and very ardent in degree. For this she had abundant reason, the good couple always treating
her with the utmost kindness, frequently making her presents of clothes and things which she
needed, besides gifts of less use and value. These tokens of her friends' good-will she used
to receive with many sprightly demonstrations of thankfulness; sometimes, in her transports
of gratitude, distributing between the Doctor and his wife a number of delicious kisses, and
telling the latter that her husband was the best and most generous of men. After Mrs. Bugbee's
death, the Doctor's manner, as was to be expected, became more grave and sober, and he very
wisely thought proper to treat Laura with a kindness less familiar than before, which perceiving
with the quickness of her sex, she also practised a like reserve. But notwithstanding this
prudent change in his demeanor, his good-will for Laura was in no wise abated. At all events,
the friendship between Cornelia and Laura suffered no decay or diminution. Indeed, it increased
in fervency and strength. For Laura, having finished her course of study at the Belfield Academy,
had now more time to devote to Cornelia than when she had had lessons to get and recitations
to attend. The parsonage stood next to the Bugbee mansion, and in the paling between the two
gardens there was a wicket, through which Cornelia, Laura, and Helen used to run to and fro
a dozen times a day. The females of the Doctor's family made nothing of scudding, bareheaded,
across to the parsonage by this convenient back-way, and bolting into the kitchen without so
much as knocking at the door; and Laura's habits at the Bugbee mansion were still more familiar.
Mrs. Jaynes, though not the most affable of womankind, gave this close intimacy much favor
and encouragement; for she bore in mind that Cornelia's father was the richest and most influential
member of her husband's church and parish.

At first, Laura was a little shy of the plain-spoken old maid, for whose person, manners, and
opinions she had often heard Mrs. Jaynes express, in private, a most bitter dislike. But Statira
had been regnant in the Bugbee mansion less than a week, when Laura began to make timid advances
towards a mutual good understanding, of which for a while Statira affected to take no heed;
for having formed a resolution to maintain a strict reserve towards every inmate of the parsonage,
she was not disposed to break it so soon, even in favor of Laura, whose winsome overtures she
found it difficult to resist.

"If it wa'n't for her bein' Miss Jaynes's sister," said she, one day, to Cornelia, who had
been praising her friend,--"if it wa'n't for that one thing, I should like her remarkable well,--a
good deal more'n common."

"Pray, what have you got such a spite against the Jayneses for?" asked Cornelia.

"What do you mean by askin' such a question as that, Cornele?" said Tira, in a tone of stern
reproof. "Who's got a spite against 'em? Not I, by a good deal! As for the parson himself,
he's a well-meanin' man, and does as near right as he knows how. If you could say as much as
that for everybody, there wouldn't be any need of parsons any more."

"But you don't like Mrs. Jaynes," persisted Cornelia.

"I ha'n't got a spite against her, Cornele,--though, I confess, I don't love the woman," replied
Statira. "But I always treat her well; though, to be sure, I don't curchy so low and keep smilin'
so much as most folks do, when they meet a minister's wife and have talk with her. Even when
she comes here a-borrowin' things she knows will be giv' to her when she asks for 'em, which
makes it so near to beggin' that she ought to be ashamed on't, which I only give to her because
it's your father's wish for me to do so, and the things are his'n; but I always treat her well,
Cornele."

"But why don't you like her, Tira?"  asked Helen.

"My dear, I'll tell you," said Statira; "for I don't want you to think I'm set against any
person unreasonable and without cause. You see Miss Jaynes is a nateral-born beggar. I don't
say it with any ill-will, but it's a fact. She takes to beggin' as naterally as a goslin' takes
to a puddle; and when she first come to town she commenced a-beggin', and has kep' it up ever
since. She used to tackle me the same as she does everybody else, askin' me to give somethin'
to this, and to that, and to t'other pet humbug of her'n, but I never would do it; and when
she found she could'nt worry me into it, like the rest of 'em, it set her very bitter against
me; and I heard of her tellin' I'd treated her with rudeness, which I'd always treated her
civilly, only when I said 'No,' she found coaxin' and palaverin' wouldn't stir me. So it went
on for a year or two, till, one fall, I was stayin' here to your ma's,--Cornele, I guess you
remember the time,--helpin' of her make up her quinces and apples. We was jest in the midst
of bilin' cider, with one biler on the stove and the biggest brass kittle full in the fireplace,
when in comes boltin' Miss Jaynes, dressed up as fine as a fiddle. She set right down in the
kitchen, and your ma rolled her sleeves down and took off her apurn, lookin' kind o' het and
worried. After a few words, Miss Jaynes took a paper out of her pocket, and says she to your
ma, 'Miss Bugbee,' says she, 'I'm a just startin' forth on the Lord's business, and I come
to you as the helpmate and pardner of one of his richest stewards in this vineyard.'--'What
is it now?' says your ma, lookin' out of one eye at the brass kittle, and speakin' more impatient
than I ever heard her speak to a minister's wife before. Well, I can't spend time to tell all
that Miss Jaynes said in answer, but it seemed some of the big folks in New York had started
a new society, and its object was to provide, as near as ever I could find out, such kind of
necessary notions for indigent young men studyin' to be ministers as they couldn't well afford
to buy for themselves,--such as steel-bowed specs for the near-sighted ones, and white cravats,
black silk gloves, and linen-cambric handkerchiefs for 'em all,--in order, as Miss Jaynes said,
these young fellers might keep up a respectable appearance, and not give a chance for the world's
people to get a contemptible idee of the ministry, on account of the shabby looks of the young
men that had laid out to foller that holy callin'. She said it was a cause that ought to lay
near the heart of every evangelical Christian man, and especially the women. 'We mothers in
Israel,' says Miss Jaynes, 'ought to feel for these young Davids that have gone forth to give
battle to the Goliaths of sin that are a-stalkin' and struttin' round all over the land.' 
She said the society was goin' to be a great institution, with an office to New York, with
an executive committee and three secretaries in attendance there, and was a-goin' to employ
a great number of clergymen, out of a parish, to travel as agents collecting funds; 'but,'
says she, 'I've a better tack for collectin' than most people, and I've concluded to canvass
this town myself for donations to this noble and worthy cause; and I've come to you, Miss Bugbee,'
says she, 'to lead off with your accustomed liberality.'--Well, what does your ma do, but go
into her room, to her draw, I suppose, and fetch out a five-dollar bill, and give it to Miss
Jaynes, which I'd 'a' had to work a week, stitchin' from mornin' to night, to have earnt that
five-dollar bill; though, of course, your ma had a right to burn it up, if she'd 'a' been a
mind to; only it made me ache to see it go so, when there was thousands of poor starvin' ragged
orphans needin' it so bad. All to once Miss Jaynes wheeled and spoke to me: 'Well, Miss Tira,'
says she, 'can I have a dollar from you?'--'No, ma'am,' says I.--'I supposed not,' says she;
which would have been sassy in anybody but the parson's wife. But I held my tongue, and out
she went, takin' no more notice of me than she did of Vi'let, nor half so much,--for I see
her kind o' look towards the old woman, as if she was half a mind to ask her for a fourpence-ha'penny.
Well, that was the last on't for a spell, until after New Year's. I was stayin' then at your
Uncle James's, and one afternoon your ma sent for your Aunt Eunice and me to come over and
take tea. So we went over, and there was several of the neighbors invited in,--Squire Bramhall's
wife, and them your ma used to go with most, and amongst the rest, of course, Miss Jaynes.
There had just before that been a donation party, New Year's night, to the parson's, and the
Dorcas Society had bought Miss Jaynes a nice new Brussels carpet for her parlor, all cut and
fitted and made up. In the course of the afternoon Miss Bramhall spoke and asked if the new
carpet was put down, and if it fitted well. 'Oh, beautiful!' says she, 'it fits the room like
a glove; somebody must have had pretty good eyes to took the measure so correct, and I not
know anything what was a-comin'; and I hope,' says she, 'ladies, you'll take an early opportunity
to drop in and see it; for there a'n't one of you but what I'm under obligation to for this
touchin' token of your love,' (that's what she called it,)--'except,' says she, of a sudden,
'except Miss Blake, whom, really, I hadn't noticed before!'--I tell ye, Cornele, my ebenezer
was up at this; for you can't tell how mean and spiteful she spoke and looked, pretendin' as
if I was so insignificant a critter she hadn't taken notice of my bein' there before, which,
to be sure, she hadn't even bid me good afternoon; and for my part, I hadn't put myself forward
among such women as was there, though I didn't feel beneath 'em, nor they didn't think so,
except Miss Jaynes.--Then she went on. 'Miss Blake,' says she, 'I believe didn't mean no slight
for not helpin' towards the carpet; for she never gives to anything, as I know of,' says she.
'I've often asked her for various objects, and have been as often refused. The last time,'
says she, 'I did expect to get somethin'; for I asked only for a dollar to that noble society
for providin' young men, a-strugglin' to prepare themselves for usefulness in the ministry,
with some of the common necessaries of life, but she refused me. I expect,' says she, a-sneerin'
in such a way that I couldn't stand it any longer, 'I expect Miss Blake is a-savin' all her
money to buy her settin'-out and furniture with; for I suppose,' says she, lookin' more spiteful
than ever, 'I suppose Miss Blake thinks that as long as there's life there's hope for a husband.'--I
happen to know what all the ladies thought of this speech, for every one of 'em afterwards
told me; but, if you'll believe me, one or two of the youngest of 'em kind of pretended to
smile at the joke on't, when Miss Jaynes looked round as if she expected 'em to laugh; for
she thought, I suppose, I was really and truly no account, bein' a cobbler's daughter and a
tailoress,--and that when the minister's wife insulted me, I dars'n't reply, and all hands
would stand by and applaud. But she found out her mistake, and she begun to think so, when
she see how grave your ma and all the rest of the older ladies looked, for they knew what was
comin'. I'd bit my lips up till now, and held in out of respect to the place and the company,
but I thought it was due to myself to speak at last. Says I, 'Miss Jaynes, I've always treated
you with civility and the respect due to your place; though I own I ha'n't felt free to give
my hard-earned wages away to objects I didn't know much about, when, with my limited means,
I could find places to bestow what little I could spare without huntin' 'em up. I don't mean
to boast,' says I, 'of my benevolence, and I don't have gilt-framed diplomas hung up in my
room to certify to it, to be seen and read of all men, as the manner of some is,--but,' says
I, 'I will say that I've given this year twenty-five dollars to the Orphan Asylum, to Hartford,
and I've a five-dollar gold-piece in my puss,' says I, 'that I can spare, and will give that
more to the same charity, for the privilege of tellin' before these ladies, that heard me accused
of being stingy, why I don't give to you when you ask me to, and especially why I didn't give
the last time you asked me. I would like to tell why I didn't help sew in the Dorcas Society,
to buy the new carpet,' says I, 'but I don't want to hurt anybody's feelin's that ha'n't hurt
mine, and I'll forbear.'--By this time Miss Jaynes was pale as a sheet. 'I'm sure,' says she,
'I don't care why you don't choose to give, and I don't suppose any one else does. It's your
own affair,' says she, 'and you a'n't compelled to give unless you're a mind to.'--'You should
have thought of that before you twitted me,' says I, 'before all this company.'--'Oh, Tira,
never mind,' says Miss Bramhall, 'let it all go!' But up spoke your Aunt Eunice, and says she,
'It's no more than fair to hear Tira's reasons, after what's been said.'"

"Good!" said little Helen; "hurrah for Aunt Eunice!"

"And your ma," resumed Statira, "I knew by her looks she was on my side, though, it bein' her
own house, she felt less free to say as much as your Aunt Eunice did.--'In the first place,'
says I, 'if I did want to keep my money to buy furniture with, in case I should get a husband,
I expect I've a right to, for 'ta'n't likely,' says I, 'I shall be lucky enough to have my
carpets giv' to me. But that wa'n't the reason I didn't put my name down for a dollar on that
subscription. One reason was, I knew the upshot on't would be that somebody would be put up
to suggestin' that the money should go for a life-membership in the society for Miss Jaynes,'
says I; 'and I don't like to encourage anybody in goin' round beggin' for money to buy her
own promotion to a high seat in the synagogue.'--You ought to seen Miss Jaynes's face then!
It was redder'n any beet, for I'd hit the nail square on the head, as it happened, and the
ladies could scurcely keep from smilin'.--'Then,' says I, 'I shouldn't be my father's daughter,
if I'd give a cent for a preacher that isn't smart enough to get his own livin' and pay for
his own clothes and eddication. To ask poor women to pay for an able-bodied man's expenses,'
says I, 'seems to me like turnin' the thing wrong end foremost. A young feller that a'n't smart
enough to find himself in victuals and clothes won't be of much help in the Lord's vineyard,'
says I."

"And what did Mrs. Jaynes say?" asked little Helen, when Tira finally came to a pause.

"Well, really, my dear," replied Miss Blake, "the woman had nothin' to say, and so she said
it. When I got through my speech I handed the five-dollar gold-piece to your Aunt Eunice, to
send to the Asylum, and that ended it; for just then Dinah come in and said tea was ready,
and we all went out. It was rather stiff for a while, and after tea we all went home; and for
three long years Miss Jaynes never opened her face to me, until I came here to live, this time.
Now she finds it's for her interest to make up, and so she tries to be as good as pie. But
though I mean to be civil, I'm no hypocrite, and I can't be all honey and cream to them I don't
like; and besides, it a'n't right to be."

"But you ought not to blame Laura because her sister affronted you," said Helen.

"I know that, my dear," replied Miss Blake; "and if I've hurt the girl's feelin's, I'm sorry
for't. She's tried hard to be friends with me, but I've pushed her off; for, not bein' much
acquainted, I was jealous, at first, that Miss Jaynes had put her up to it, to try to get round
me in some way."

"Never!" cried Cornelia,--"my Laura is incapable of such baseness!"

"Well," said Statira, smiling, "come to know her, I guess you can't find much guile in her,
that's a fact. If I did her wrong by mistrustin' her without cause, I'll try to make amends.
It a'n't in me to speak ha'sh even to a dog, if the critter looks up into my face and wags
his tail in honest good-nater. And I'll say this for Laura Stebbins, anyhow, if she is Miss
Jaynes's sister,--she's got the most takin' ways of 'most any grown-up person I ever see."

The reflection is painful to a generous mind, that, by harboring unjust suspicions of another,
one has been led to repel friendly advances with indifference or disdain. In order to assuage
some remorseful pangs, Miss Blake began from this time to treat Laura with distinguished favor.
On the other hand, Laura, delighted at this pleasant change in Miss Blake's demeanor, sought
frequent opportunities of testifying her joy and gratitude. In this manner an intimacy began,
which ripened at length into a firm and enduring friendship. Laura soon commenced the practice
of applying to her more experienced friend for advice and direction in almost every matter,
great or small, and of confiding to her trust divers secrets and confessions which she would
never have ventured to repose even in Cornelia's faithful bosom. This prudent habit Tira encouraged.

"I know, my dear," said she, one day, "I know what it is to be almost alone in the world, and
what a comfort it is to have somebody you can rely on to tell your griefs and troubles to,
and, as it were, get 'em to help you bear 'em. So, my dear child, whenever you want to get
my notions on any point, just come right straight to me, if you feel like it. I may not be
able to give you the best advice, for I a'n't so wise as you seem to think I be; however, I
ha'n't lived nigh fifty years in the world for naught, I trust, and without havin' learnt some
things worth knowin'; and though my counsel mayn't be worth much, still you shall have the
best I can give."

"Oh, thank you, thank you!" cried Laura, with such a burst of passionate emotion that Miss
Blake's eyes watered at the sight of it. "My dear, dear, dear good friend! you don't know how
glad I shall be, if you will let me do as you say, and tell me what to do, and scold me, and
admonish and warn me! Oh, it will be such happiness to have somebody to tell all my real secrets
and troubles to! I do so need such a friend sometimes!"

"Don't I know it, you poor dear?" said Miss Blake, wiping her eyes. "Ha'n't I been through
the same straits myself? None but them that's been a young gal themselves, an orphan without
a mother to confide in and to warn and guide 'em, knows what it is. But I do, my dear; and
though I shall be a pretty poor substitute for an own mother, I'll do the best I can."

"Tira," said Laura, with a tearful and blushing cheek held up to the good spinster's, "kiss
me, won't you?--you never have."

"My dear," said Miss Blake, preparing to comply with this request by wiping her lips with her
apron, "you see I a'n't one of the kissin' sort, and I scurcely ever kiss a grown-up person;
but here's my hand, and here's a kiss,"--with an old-fashioned smack that might have been heard
in the next room,--"for a token that you may always come to me as freely as if I was your mother,
relyin' upon my givin' you my honest advice and opinion concernin' any affair that you may
ask for counsel upon. And furthermore, as girls naterally have a wish that the very things
they need some one to direct 'em the most in sha'n't be known except by them they tell the
secret to, I promise you, my dear, that I'll be as close as a freemason concernin' any privacy
that you may trust me with, about any offer or courtin' matter of any kind."

"Oh, I shall never have any such secrets," said Laura, blushing; "my sister never lets the
beaux come to see me, you know. I'm going to be an old maid."

"Well, perhaps you will be," said Miss Blake; "only they gen'ally don't make old maids of such
lookin' girls as you be."

But though Miss Blake took Laura into favor, she was by no means inclined to do the same by
Mrs. Jaynes, who, having found to her cost that the ill-will of the humble sempstress was not
to be lightly contemned, was now plainly anxious to conciliate her. But Statira was proof against
all the wheedling and flattery of the parson's wife, behaving towards her always with the same
cool civility, and with great self-control,--using none of the frequent opportunities afforded
her to make some taunt, or fling, or reproachful allusion to Mrs. Jaynes's former conduct.
Once, to be sure, when urged by the parson's wife and a committee of the Dorcas Society to
invite that respectable body to convene at the Bugbee mansion for labor and refreshment, Statira
returned a reply so plainly spoken that it was deemed rude and ungracious.

"Cornelia is mistress of this house, Miss Jaynes," said she, "and if she belonged to your society,
and wanted to have its weekly meetin's here in turn, I'd do my best to give 'em somethin' good
to eat and drink. But as she has left the matter to me, I say 'No,' without any misgivin' or
doubt; and for fear I may be called stingy or unsociable, I'll tell the reason why I say so,--and
besides, it's due to you to tell it. There's poor women, even in this town, put to it to get
employment by which they can earn bread for themselves and their children. They can't go out
to do housework, for they've got young ones too little to carry with 'em, and maybe a whole
family of 'em. Takin' in sewin' is their only resource. Well, ma'am, for ladies, well-to-do
and rich, to get together, under pretence of good works and charity, and take away work from
these poor women, by offerin' to do it cheaper, underbiddin' of 'em for jobs, which I've known
the thing to be done, and then settin' over their ill-gotten tasks, sewin', and gabblin' slander
all the afternoon, to get money to buy velvet pulpit-cushions or gilt chandeliers with, or
to help pay some missionary's passage to the Tongoo Islands, is, in my opinion, a humbug, and,
what's worse, a downright breach of the Golden Rule. At any rate, with my notions, it would
be hypocrisy in me to join in, and that's why I don't invite the society here. I don't know
but I have spoke too strong; if so, I'm sorry; but I've had to earn my own livin', ever since
I was a girl, with my needle, and I know how hard the lot of them is that have to do so too.
Besides, I can't help thinkin', what, perhaps, you never thought of, yourselves, ladies, that
every person, who, while they can just as well turn their hands to other business, yet, for
their own whim, or pleasure, or convenience, or profit, chooses to do work, of which there
a'n't enough now in the world to keep in employment them that must get such work to do, or
else beg, or sin, or starve,--when I think, I say, that every such person helps some poor cretur
into the grave, or the jail, or a place worse than both, I feel that strong talk isn't out
of place; and I've known this very Dorcas Society to send to Hartford and get shirts to make,
under price, and spend their blood-money afterwards to buy a new carpet for the minister's
parlor. That was a fact, Miss Jaynes, though perhaps it wa'n't polite in me to speak on't;
and so for fear of worse, I'll say no more."

When this speech of his housekeeper came to the Doctor's ears, he expressed so warm an approval
of its sentiments, that several who heard him began to be confirmed in suspicions they had
previously entertained, the nature of which may be inferred from a remark which Mrs. Prouty
confided to the ear of a trusty friend and crony. "Now do you mind what I say, Miss Baker,"
said she, shaking her snuffy forefinger in Mrs. Baker's face; "Doctor Bugbee'll marry Tira
Blake yet. Now do you just stick a pin there."

But the revolving seasons twice went their annual round, the great weeping-willow-tree in the
burying-ground twice put forth its tender foliage in the early spring, and twice in autumn
strewed with yellow leaves the mound of Mrs. Bugbee's grave, while the predictions of many,
who, like Mrs. Prouty, had foretold the Doctor's second wedding, still remained without fulfilment.
Nay, at the end of two years after his wife's death, Doctor Bugbee seemed to be no more disposed
to matrimony than in the first days of his bereavement. There were, to be sure, floating on
the current of village gossip, certain rumors that he was soon to take a second wife; but as
none of these reports agreed touching the name of the lady, each contradicted all the others,
and so none were of much account. Besides, there was nothing in the Doctor's appearance or
behavior that seemed to warrant any of these idle stories. It is the way with many hopeful
widowers (as everybody knows) to become, after an interval of decorous sadness, more brisk
and gay than even in their youthful days; bestowing unusual care upon their attire and the
adornment of their persons, and endeavoring, by a courteous and gallant demeanor towards every
unmarried lady, to signify the great esteem in which they hold the female sex. But these signs,
and all others which betoken an ardent desire to win the favor of the fair, were wanting in
the Doctor's aspect and deportment. Though, as my reader knows, he was by nature a man of lively
temper, he was now grown more sedate than he had ever been before; and instead of attiring
himself more sprucely than of old, he neglected his apparel to such a degree, that, although
few would have noticed the untidy change, Statira was filled with continual alarms, lest some
invidious housewife should perceive it, and lay the blame at her door. Except when called abroad
to perform some professional duty, he spent his time at home, although his family observed
that he secluded himself in his office, among his books and gallipots, more than had been his
wont, and that he sometimes indulged in moods of silent abstraction, which had never been noticed
in his manner until of late. But these changes of demeanor seemed to betoken an enduring sorrow
for the loss of his wife, rather than to indicate a desire or an intention to choose a successor
to her. My readers, therefore, will not be surprised to learn, by a plain averment of the simple
truth, that not one of all the score of ladies, whose names had been coupled with his own,
would Doctor Bugbee have married, if he could, and that to none of them had he ever given any
good reason for believing that she stood especially high in his esteem.

              [To be continued in the next Number.]

WHERE WILL IT END?

Wise men of every name and nation, whether poets, philosophers, statesmen, or divines, have
been trying to explain the puzzles of human condition, since the world began. For three thousand
years, at least, they have been at this problem, and it is far enough from being solved yet.
Its anomalies seem to have been expressly contrived by Nature to elude our curiosity and defy
our cunning. And no part of it has she arranged so craftily as that web of institutions, habits,
manners, and customs, in which we find ourselves enmeshed as soon as we begin to have any perception
at all, and which, slight and almost invisible as it may seem, it is so hard to struggle with
and so impossible to break through. It may be true, according to the poetical Platonism of
Wordsworth, that "heaven lies about us in our infancy"; but we very soon leave it far behind
us, and, as we approach manhood, sadly discover that we have grown up into a jurisdiction of
a very different kind.

In almost every region of the earth, indeed, it is literally true that "shades of the prison-house
begin to close upon the growing boy." As his faculties develope, he becomes more and more conscious
of the deepening shadows, as well as of the grim walls that cast them on his soul, and his
opening intelligence is earliest exercised in divining who built them first, and why they exist
at all. The infant Chinese, the baby Calmuck, the suckling Hottentot, we must suppose, rest
unconsciously in the calm of the heaven from which they, too, have emigrated, as well as the
sturdy new-born Briton, or the freest and most independent little Yankee that is native and
to the manner born of this great country of our own. But all alike grow gradually into a consciousness
of walls, which, though invisible, are none the less impassable, and of chains, though light
as air, yet stronger than brass or iron. And everywhere is the machinery ready, though different
in its frame and operation in different torture-chambers, to crush out the budding skepticism,
and to mould the mind into the monotonous decency of general conformity. Foe or Fetish, King
or Kaiser, Deity itself or the vicegerents it has appointed in its stead, are answerable for
it all. God himself has looked upon it, and it is very good, and there is no appeal from that
approval of the Heavenly vision.

In almost every country in the world this deification of institutions has been promoted by
their antiquity. As nobody can remember when they were not, and as no authentic records exist
of their first establishment, their genealogy can be traced direct to Heaven without danger
of positive disproof. Thus royal races and hereditary aristocracies and privileged priesthoods
established themselves so firmly in the opinion of Europe, as well as of Asia, and still retain
so much of their prestige there, notwithstanding the turnings and overturnings of the last
two centuries. This northern half of the great American continent, however, seems to have been
kept back by Nature as a tabula rasa, a clean blackboard, on which the great problem of civil
government might be worked out, without any of the incongruous drawbacks which have cast perplexity
and despair upon those who have undertaken its solution in the elder world. All the elements
of the demonstration were of the most favorable nature. Settled by races who had inherited
or achieved whatever of constitutional liberty existed in the world, with no hereditary monarch,
or governing oligarchy, or established religion on the soil, with every opportunity to avoid
all the vices and to better all the virtues of the old polities, the era before which all history
had been appointed to prepare the way seemed to have arrived, when the just relations of personal
liberty and civil government were to be established forever.

And how magnificent the field on which the trophy of this final victory of a true civilization
was to be erected! No empire or kingdom, at least since imperial Rome perished from the earth,
ever unrolled a surface so vast and so variegated, so manifold in its fertilities and so various
in its aspects of beauty and sublimity. From the Northern wastes, where the hunter and the
trapper pursue by force or guile the fur-bearing animals, to the ever-perfumed latitudes of
the lemon and the myrtle,--from the stormy Atlantic, where the skiff of the fisherman rocks
fearlessly under the menace of beetling crags amid the foam of angry breakers, to where the
solemn surge of the Pacific pours itself around our Western continent, boon Nature has spread
out fields which ask only the magic touch of Labor to wave with every harvest and blush with
every fruitage. Majestic forests crown the hills, asking to be transformed into homes for man
on the solid earth, or into the moving miracles in which he flies on wings of wind or flame
over the ocean to the ends of the earth. Exhaustless mineral treasures offer themselves to
his hand, scarce hidden beneath the soil, or lying carelessly upon the surface,--coal, and
lead, and copper, and the "all-worshipped ore" of gold itself; while quarries, reaching to
the centre, from many a rugged hill-top, barren of all beside, court the architect and the
sculptor, ready to give shape to their dreams of beauty in the palace or in the statue.

The soil, too, is fitted by the influences of every sky for the production of every harvest
that can bring food, comfort, wealth, and luxury to man. Every family of the grasses, every
cereal that can strengthen the heart, every fruit that can delight the taste, every fibre that
can be woven into raiment or persuaded into the thousand shapes of human necessity, asks but
a gentle solicitation to pour its abundance bounteously into the bosom of the husbandman. And
men have multiplied under conditions thus auspicious to life, until they swarm on the Atlantic
slope, are fast filling up the great valley of the Mississippi, and gradually flow over upon
the descent towards the Pacific. The three millions, who formed the population of the Thirteen
States that set the British empire at defiance, have grown up into a nation of nearly, if not
quite, ten times that strength, within the duration of active lives not yet finished. And in
freedom from unmanageable debt, in abundance and certainty of revenue, in the materials for
naval armaments, in the elements of which armies are made up, in everything that goes to form
national wealth, power, and strength, the United States, it would seem, even as they are now,
might stand against the world in arms, or in the arts of peace. Are not these results proofs
irrefragable of the wisdom of the government under which they have come to pass?

When the eyes of the thoughtful inquirer turn from the general prospect of the national greatness
and strength, to the geographical divisions of the country, to examine the relative proportions
of these gifts contributed by each, he begins to be aware that there are anomalies in the moral
and political condition even of this youngest of nations, not unlike what have perplexed him
in his observation of her elder sisters. He beholds the Southern region, embracing within its
circuit three hundred thousand more square miles than the domain of the North, dowered with
a soil incomparably more fertile, watered by mighty rivers fit to float the argosies of the
world, placed nearer the sun and canopied by more propitious skies, with every element of prosperity
and wealth showered upon it with Nature's fullest and most unwithdrawing hand, and sees, that,
notwithstanding all this, the share of public wealth and strength drawn thence is almost inappreciable
by the side of what is poured into the common stock by the strenuous sterility of the North.
With every opportunity and means that Nature can supply for commerce, with navigable rivers
searching its remotest corners, with admirable harbors in which the navies of the world might
ride, with the chief articles of export for its staple productions, it still depends upon its
Northern partner to fetch and carry all that it produces, and the little that it consumes.
Possessed of all the raw materials of manufactures and the arts, its inhabitants look to the
North for everything they need from the cradle to the coffin. Essentially agricultural in its
constitution, with every blessing Nature can bestow upon it, the gross value of all its productions
is less by millions than that of the simple grass of the field gathered into Northern barns.
With all the means and materials of wealth, the South is poor. With every advantage for gathering
strength and self-reliance, it is weak and dependent.--Why this difference between the two?

The why is not far to seek. It is to be found in the reward which Labor bestows on those that
pay it due reverence in the one case, and the punishment it inflicts on those offering it outrage
and insult in the other. All wealth proceeding forth from Labor, the land where it is honored
and its ministers respected and rewarded must needs rejoice in the greatest abundance of its
gifts. Where, on the contrary, its exercise is regarded as the badge of dishonor and the vile
office of the refuse and offscouring of the race, its largess must be proportionably meagre
and scanty. The key of the enigma is to be found in the constitution of human nature. A man
in fetters cannot do the task-work that one whose limbs are unshackled looks upon as a pastime.
A man urged by the prospect of winning an improved condition for himself and his children by
the skill of his brain and the industry of his hand must needs achieve results such as no fear
of torture can extort from one denied the holy stimulus of hope. Hence the difference so often
noticed between tracts lying side by side, separated only by a river or an imaginary line;
on one side of which, thrift and comfort and gathering wealth, growing villages, smiling farms,
convenient habitations, school-houses, and churches make the landscape beautiful; while on
the other, slovenly husbandry, dilapidated mansions, sordid huts, perilous wastes, horrible
roads, the rare spire, and rarer village school betray all the nakedness of the land. It is
the magic of motive that calls forth all this wealth and beauty to bless the most sterile soil
stirred by willing and intelligent labor; while the reversing of that spell scatters squalor
and poverty and misery over lands endowed by Nature with the highest fertility, spreading their
leprous infection from the laborer to his lord. All this is in strict accordance with the laws
of God, as expounded by man in his books on political economy.

Not so, however, with the stranger phenomenon to be discerned inextricably connected with this
anomaly, but not, apparently, naturally and inevitably flowing from it. That the denial of
his natural and civil rights to the laborer who sows and reaps the harvests of the Southern
country should be avenged upon his enslaver in the scanty yielding of the earth, and in the
unthrift, the vices, and the wretchedness which are the only crops that spring spontaneously
from soil blasted by slavery, is nothing strange. It is only the statement of the truism in
moral and in political economy, that true prosperity can never grow up from wrong and wickedness.
That pauperism, and ignorance, and vice, that reckless habits, and debasing customs, and barbarous
manners should come of an organized degradation of labor, and of cruelty and injustice crystallized
into an institution, is an inevitable necessity, and strictly according to the nature of things.
But that the stronger half of the nation should suffer the weaker to rule over it in virtue
of its weakness, that the richer region should submit to the political tyranny of its impoverished
moiety because of that very poverty, is indeed a marvel and a mystery. That the intelligent,
educated, and civilized portion of a race should consent to the sway of their ignorant, illiterate,
and barbarian companions in the commonwealth, and this by reason of that uncouth barbarism,
is an astonishment, and should be a hissing to all beholders everywhere. It would be so to
ourselves, were we not so used to the fact, had it not so grown into our essence and ingrained
itself with our nature as to seem a vital organism of our being. Of all the anomalies in morals
and in politics which the history of civilized man affords, this is surely the most abnormous
and the most unreasonable.

The entire history of the United States is but the record of the evidence of this fact. What
event in our annals is there that Slavery has not set her brand upon it to mark it as her own?
In the very moment of the nation's birth, like the evil fairy of the nursery tale, she was
present to curse it with her fatal words. The spell then wound up has gone on increasing in
power, until the scanty formulas which seemed in those days of infancy as if they would fade
out of the parchment into which they had been foisted, and leave no trace that they ever were,
have blotted out all beside, and statesmen and judges read nothing there but the awful and
all-pervading name of Slavery. Once intrenched among the institutions of the country, this
baleful power has advanced from one position to another, never losing ground, but establishing
itself at each successive point more impregnably than before, until it has us at an advantage
that encourages it to demand the surrender of our rights, our self-respect, and our honor.
What was once whispered in the secret chamber of council is now proclaimed upon the housetops;
what was once done by indirection and guile is now carried with the high hand, in the face
of day, at the mouth of the cannon and by the edge of the sabre of the nation. Doctrines and
designs which a few years since could find no mouthpiece out of a bar-room, or the piratical
den of a filibuster, are now clothed with power by the authentic response of the bench of our
highest judicatory, and obsequiously iterated from the oracular recesses of the National Palace.

And the events which now fill the scene are but due successors in the train that has swept
over the stage ever since the nineteenth century opened the procession with the purchase of
Louisiana. The acquisition of that vast territory, important as it was in a national point
of view,--but coveted by the South mainly as the fruitful mother of slave-holding States, and
for the precedent it established, that the Constitution was a barrier only to what should impede,
never to what might promote, the interests of Slavery,--was the first great stride she made
as she stalked to her design. The admission of Missouri as a slaveholding State, granted after
a struggle that shook American society to the centre, and then only on the memorable promises
now broken to the ear as well as to the hope, was the next vantage-ground seized and maintained.
The nearly contemporary purchase of Florida, though in design and in effect as revolutionary
an action as that of Louisiana, excited comparatively little opposition. It was but the following
up of an acknowledged victory by the Slave Power. The long and bloody wars in her miserable
swamps, waged against the humanity of savages that gave shelter to the fugitives from her tyranny,--slave-hunts,
merely, on a national scale and at the common expense,--followed next in the march of events.
Then Texas loomed in the distance, and, after years of gradual approach and covert advances,
was first wrested from Mexico. Slavery next indissolubly chained to her, and then, by a coup
d'état of astonishing impudence, was added, by a flourish of John Tyler's pen, in the very
article of his political dissolution, to "the Area of Freedom!" Next came the war with Mexico,
lying in its pretences, bloody in its conduct, triumphant in its results, for it won vast regions
suitable for Slavery now, and taught the way to win larger conquests when her ever-hungry maw
should crave them. What need to recount the Fugitive-Slave Bill, and the other "Compromises"
of 1850? or to recite the base repeal of the Missouri Compromise, showing the slaveholder's
regard for promises to be as sacred as that of a pettifogger for justice or of a dicer for
an oath? or to point to the plains of Kansas, red with the blood of her sons and blackened
with the cinders of her towns, while the President of the United States held the sword of the
nation at her throat to compel her to submission?

Success, perpetual and transcendent, such as has always waited on Slavery in all her attempts
to mould the history of the country and to compel the course of its events to do her bidding,
naturally excites a measure of curiosity if not of admiration, in the mind of every observer.
Have the slave-owners thus gone on from victory to victory and from strength to strength by
reason of their multitude, of their wealth, of their public services, of their intelligence,
of their wisdom, of their genius, or of their virtue? Success in gigantic crime sometimes implies
a strength and energy which compel a kind of respect even from those that hate it most. The
right supremacy of the power that thus sways our destiny clearly does not reside in the overwhelming
numbers of those that bear rule. The entire sum of all who have any direct connection with
Slavery, as owners or hirers, is less than THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND,--not half as many
as the inhabitants of the single city of New York! And yet even this number exaggerates the
numerical force of the dominant element in our affairs. To approximate to the true result,
it would be fair to strike from the gross sum those owning or employing less than ten slaves,
in order to arrive at the number of slave-owners who really compose the ruling influence of
the nation. This would leave but a small fraction over NINETY THOUSAND, men, women, and children,
owning slaves enough to unite them in a common interest. And from this should be deducted the
women and minors, actually owning slaves in their own right, but who have no voice in public
affairs. These taken away, and the absentees flying to Europe or the North from the moral contaminations
and material discomforts inseparable from Slavery, and not much more than FIFTY THOUSAND voting
men will remain to represent this mighty and all-controlling power!--a fact as astounding as
it is incontrovertible.

Oligarchies are nothing new in the history of the world. The government of the many by the
few is the rule, and not the exception, in the politics of the times that have been and of
those that now are. But the concentration of the power that determines the policy, makes the
laws, and appoints the ministers of a mighty nation, in the hands of less than the five-hundredth
part of its members, is an improvement on the essence of the elder aristocracies; while the
usurpation of the title of the Model Republic and of the Pattern Democracy, under which we
offer ourselves to the admiration and imitation of less happy nations, is certainly a refinement
on their nomenclature.

This prerogative of power, too, is elsewhere conceded by the multitude to their rulers generally
for some especial fitness, real or imaginary, for the office they have assumed. Some services
of their own or of their ancestors to the state, some superiority, natural or acquired, of
parts or skill, at least some specialty of high culture and elegant breeding, a quick sense
of honor, a jealousy of insult to the public, an impatience of personal stain,--some or all
of these qualities, appealing to the gratitude or to the imagination of the masses, have usually
been supposed to inhere in the class they permit to rule over them. By virtue of some or all
of these things, its members have had allowed to them their privileges and their precedency,
their rights of exemption and of preeminence, their voice potential in the councils of the
state, and their claim to be foremost in its defence in the hour of its danger. Some ray of
imagination there is, which, falling on the knightly shields and heraldic devices that symbolize
their conceded superiority, at least dazzles the eyes and delights the fancy of the crowd,
so as to blind them to the inhering vices and essential fallacies of the Order to whose will
they bow.

But no such consolations of delusion remain to us, as we stand face to face with the Power
which holds our destinies in its hand. None of these blear illusions can cheat our eyes with
any such false presentments. No antiquity hallows, no public services consecrate, no gifts
of lofty culture adorn, no graces of noble breeding embellish the coarse and sordid oligarchy
that gives law to us. And in the blighting shadow of Slavery letters die and art cannot live.
What book has the South ever given to the libraries of the world? What work of art has she
ever added to its galleries? What artist has she produced that did not instinctively fly, like
Allston, to regions in which genius could breathe and art was possible? What statesman has
she reared, since Jefferson died and Madison ceased to write, save those intrepid discoverers
who have taught that Slavery is the corner-stone of republican institutions, and the vital
element of Freedom herself? What divine, excepting the godly men whose theologic skill has
attained to the doctrine that Slavery is of the essence of the Gospel of Jesus Christ? What
moralist, besides those ethic doctors who teach that it is according to the Divine Justice
that the stronger race should strip the weaker of every civil, social, and moral right? The
unrighteous partiality, extorted by the threats of Carolina and Georgia in 1788, which gives
them a disproportionate representation because of their property in men, and the unity of interest
which makes them always act in behalf of Slavery as one man, have made them thus omnipotent.
The North, distracted by a thousand interests, has always been at the mercy of whatever barbarian
chief in the capital could throw his slave whip into the trembling scale of party. The government
having been always, since this century began, at least, the creature and the tool of the slaveholders,
the whole patronage of the nation, and the treasury filled chiefly by Northern commerce, have
been at their command to help manipulate and mould plastic Northern consciences into practicable
shapes. When the slave interest, consisting, at its own largest account of itself, of less
than THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND souls, has thirty members of the Senate, while the free-labor
interest, consisting of at least TWENTY-FOUR MILLIONS, SIX HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND souls,
has but thirty-two, and when the former has a delegation of some score of members to represent
its slaves in the House, besides its own fair proportion, can we marvel that it has achieved
the mastery over us, which is written in black and bloody characters on so many pages of our
history?

Such having been the absolute sway Slavery has exercised over the facts of our history, what
has been its influence upon the characters of the men with whom it has had to do? Of all the
productions of a nation, its men are what prove its quality the most surely. How have the men
of America stood this test? Have those in the high places, they who have been called to wait
at the altar before all the people, maintained the dignity of character and secured the general
reverence which marked and waited upon their predecessors in the days of our small things?
The population of the United States has multiplied itself nearly tenfold, while its wealth
has increased in a still greater proportion, since the peace of 'Eighty-Three. Have the Representative
Men of the nation been made or maintained great and magnanimous, too? Or is that other anomaly,
which has so perplexed the curious foreigner, an admitted fact, that in proportion as the country
has waxed great and powerful, its public men have dwindled from giants in the last century
to dwarfs in this? Alas, to ask the question is to answer it. Compare Franklin, and Adams,
and Jay, met at Paris to negotiate the treaty of peace which was to seal the recognition of
their country as an equal sister in the family of nations, with Buchanan, and Soulé, and Mason,
convened at Ostend to plot the larceny of Cuba! Sages and lawgivers, consulting for the welfare
of a world and a race, on the one hand, and buccaneers conspiring for the pillage of a sugar-island
on the other!

What men, too, did not Washington and Adams call around them in the Cabinet!--how representative
of great ideas! how historical! how immortal! How many of our readers can name the names of
their successors of the present day? Inflated obscurities, bloated insignificances, who knows
or cares whence they came or what they are? We know whose bidding they were appointed to obey,
and what manner of work they are ready to perform. And shall we dare extend our profane comparisons
even higher than the Cabinet? Shall we bring the shadowy majesty of Washington's august idea
alongside the microscopic realities of to-day? Let us be more merciful, and take our departure
from the middle term between the Old and the New, occupied by Andrew Jackson, whose iron will
and doggedness of purpose give definite character, if not awful dignity, to his image. In his
time, the Slave Power, though always the secret spring which set events in motion, began to
let its workings be seen more openly than ever before. And from his time forward, what a graduated
line of still diminishing shadows have glided successively through the portals of the White
House! From Van Buren to Tyler, from Tyler to Polk, from Polk to Fillmore, from Fillmore to
Pierce! "Fine by degrees and beautifully less," until it at last reached the vanishing point!

The baleful influence thus ever shed by Slavery on our national history and our public men
has not yet spent its malignant forces. It has, indeed, reached a height which a few years
ago it was thought the wildest fanaticism to predict; but its fatal power will not be stayed
in the mid-sweep of its career. The Ordinance of 1787 torn to shreds and scattered to the winds,--the
line drawn in 1820, which the slaveholders plighted their faith Slavery should never overstep,
insolently as well as infamously obliterated,--Slavery presiding in the Cabinet, seated on
the Supreme Bench, absolute in the halls of Congress,--no man can say what shape its next aggression
may not take to itself. A direct attack on the freedom of the press and the liberty of speech
at the North, where alone either exists, were no more incredible than the later insolences
of its tyranny. The battle not yet over in Kansas, for the compulsory establishment of Slavery
there by the interposition of the Federal arm, will be renewed in every Territory as it is
ripening into a State. Already warning voices are heard in the air, presaging such a conflict
in Oregon. Parasites everywhere instinctively feel that a zeal for the establishment of Slavery
where it has been abolished, or its introduction where it had been prohibited, is the highest
recommendation to the Executive favor. The rehabilitation of the African slave-trade is seriously
proposed and will be furiously urged, and nothing can hinder its accomplishment but its interference
with the domestic manufactures of the breeding Slave States. The pirate Walker is already mustering
his forces for another incursion into Nicaragua, and rumors are rife that General Houston designs
wresting yet another Texas from Mexico. Mighty events are at hand, even at the door; and the
mission of them all will be to fix Slavery firmly and forever on the throne of this nation.

Is the success of this conspiracy to be final and eternal? Are the States which name themselves,
in simplicity or in irony, the Free States, to be always the satrapies of a central power like
this? Are we forever to submit to be cheated out of our national rights by an oligarchy as
despicable as it is detestable, because it clothes itself in the forms of democracy, and allows
us the ceremonies of choice, the name of power, and the permission to register the edicts of
the sovereign? We, who broke the sceptre of King George, and set our feet on the supremacy
of the British Parliament, surrender ourselves, bound hand and foot in bonds of our own weaving,
into the hands of the slaveholding Philistines! We, who scorned the rule of the aristocracy
of English acres, submit without a murmur, or with an ineffectual resistance, to the aristocracy
of American flesh and blood! Is our spirit effectually broken? is the brand of meanness and
compromise burnt in uneffaceably upon our souls? and are we never to be roused, by any indignities,
to fervent resentment and effectual resistance? The answer to these grave questions lies with
ourselves alone. One hundred thousand, or three hundred thousand men, however crafty and unscrupulous,
cannot forever keep under their rule more than twenty millions, as much their superiors in
wealth and intelligence as in numbers, except by their own consent. If the growing millions
are to be driven with cartwhips along the pathway of their history by the dwindling thousands,
they have none to blame for it but themselves. If they like to have their laws framed and expounded,
their presidents appointed, their foreign policy dictated, their domestic interests tampered
with, their war and peace made for them, their national fame and personal honor tarnished,
and the lie given to all their boastings before the old despotisms, by this insignificant fraction
of their number,--scarcely visible to the naked eye in the assembly of the whole people,--none
can gainsay or resist their pleasure.

But will the many always thus submit themselves to the domination of the few? We believe that
the days of this ignominious subjection are already numbered. Signs in heaven and on earth
tell us that one of those movements has begun to be felt in the Northern mind, which perplex
tyrannies everywhere with the fear of change. The insults and wrongs so long heaped upon the
North by the South begin to be felt. The torpid giant moves uneasily beneath his mountain-load
of indignities. The people of the North begin to feel that they support a government for the
benefit of their natural enemies; for, of all antipathies, that of slave labor to free is the
most deadly and irreconcilable. There never was a time when the relations of the North and
the South, as complicated by Slavery, were so well understood and so deeply resented as now.
In fields, in farmhouses, and in workshops, there is a spirit aroused which can never be laid
or exorcised till it has done its task. We see its work in the great uprising of the Free States
against the Slave States in the late national election. Though trickery and corruption cheated
it of its end, the thunder of its protest struck terror into the hearts of the tyrants. We
hear its echo, as it comes back from the Slave States themselves, in the exceeding bitter cry
of the whites for deliverance from the bondage which the slavery of the blacks has brought
upon them also. We discern the confession of its might in the very extravagances and violences
of the Slave Power. It is its conscious and admitted weakness that has made Texas and Mexico
and Cuba, and our own Northwestern territory, necessary to be devoured. It is desperation,
and not strength, that has made the bludgeon and the bowie-knife integral parts of the national
legislation. It has the American Government, the American Press, and the American Church, in
its national organizations, on its side; but the Humanity and the Christianity of the Nation
and the World abhor and execrate it. They that be against it are more than they that be for it.

It rages, for its time is short. And its rage is the fiercer because of the symptoms of rebellion
against its despotism which it discerns among the white men of the South, who from poverty
or from principle have no share in its sway. When we speak of the South as distinguished from
the North by elements of inherent hostility, we speak only of the governing faction, and not
of the millions of nominally free men who are scarcely less its thralls than the black slaves
themselves. This unhappy class of our countrymen are the first to feel the blight which Slavery
spreads around it, because they are the nearest to its noxious power. The subjects of no European
despotism are under a closer espionage, or a more organized system of terrorism, than are they.
The slaveholders, having the wealth, and nearly all the education that the South can boast
of, employ these mighty instruments of power to create the public sentiment and to control
the public affairs of their region, so as best to secure their own supremacy. No word of dissent
to the institutions under which they live, no syllable of dissatisfaction, even, with any of
the excesses they stimulate, can be breathed in safety. A Christian minister in Tennessee relates
an act of fiendish cruelty inflicted upon a slave by one of the members of his church, and
he is forced to leave his charge, if not to fly the country. Another in South Carolina presumes
to express in conversation his disapprobation of the murderous assault of Brooks on Senator
Sumner, and his pastoral relations are broken up on the instant, as if he had been guilty of
gross crime or flagrant heresy. Professor Hedrick, in North Carolina, ventures to utter a preference
for the Northern candidate in the last presidential campaign, and he is summarily ejected from
his chair, and virtually banished from his native State. Mr. Underwood, of Virginia, dares
to attend the convention of the party he preferred, and he is forbidden to return to his home
on pain of death. The blackness of darkness and the stillness of death are thus forced to brood
over that land which God formed so fair, and made to be so happy.

That such a tyranny should excite an antagonistic spirit of resistance is inevitable from the
constitution of man and the character of God. The sporadic cases of protest and of resistance
to the slaveholding aristocracy, which lift themselves occasionally above the dead level of
the surrounding despotism, are representative cases. They stand for much more than their single
selves. They prove that there is a wide-spread spirit of discontent, informing great regions
of the slave-land, which must one day find or force an opportunity of making itself heard and
felt. This we have just seen in the great movement in Missouri, the very nursing-mother of
Border-Ruffianism itself, which narrowly missed making Emancipation the policy of the majority
of the voters there. Such a result is the product of no sudden culture. It must have been long
and slowly growing up. And how could it be otherwise? There must be intelligence enough among
the non-slaveholding whites to see the difference there is between themselves and persons of
the same condition in the Free States. Why can they have no free schools? Why is it necessary
that a missionary society be formed at the North to furnish them with such ministers as the
slave-master can approve? Why can they not support their own ministers, and have a Gospel of
Free Labor preached to them, if they choose? Why are they hindered from taking such newspapers
as they please? Why are they subjected to a censorship of the press, which dictates to them
what they may or may not read, and which punishes booksellers with exile and ruin for keeping
for sale what they want to buy? Why must Northern publishers expurgate and emasculate the literature
of the world before it is permitted to reach them? Why is it that the value of acres increases
in a geometrical ratio, as they stretch away towards the North Star from the frontier of Slavery?
These questions must suggest their sufficient answer to thousands of hearts, and be preparing
the way for the insurrection of which the slaveholders stand in the deadliest fear,--that of
the whites at their gates, who can do with them and their institutions what seems to them good,
when once they know their power, and choose to put it forth. The unity of interest of the non-slaveholders
of the South with the people of the Free States is perfect, and it must one day combine them
in a unity of action.

The exact time when the millions of the North and of the South shall rise upon this puny mastership,
and snatch from its hands the control of their own affairs, we cannot tell,--nor yet the authentic
shape which that righteous insurrection will take unto itself. But we know that when the great
body of any nation is thoroughly aroused, and fully in earnest to abate a mischief or to right
a wrong, nothing can resist its energy or defeat its purpose. It will provide the way, when
its will is once thoroughly excited. Men look out upon the world they live in, and it seems
as if a change for the better were hopeless and impossible. The great statesmen, the eminent
divines, the reverend judges, the learned lawyers, the wealthy landholders and merchants are
all leagued together to repel innovation. But the earth still moves in its orbit around the
sun; decay and change and death pursue their inevitable course; the child is born and grows
up; the strong man grows old and dies; the law of flux and efflux never ceases, and lo! ere
men are aware of it, all things have become new. Fresh eyes look upon the world, and it is
changed. Where are now Calhoun, and Clay, and Webster? Where will shortly be Cass, and Buchanan,
and Benton, and their like? Vanished from the stage of affairs, if not from the face of Nature.
Who are to take their places? God knows. But we know that the school in which men are now in
training for the arena is very different from the one which formed the past and passing generations
of politicians. Great ideas are abroad, challenging the encounter of youth. Angels wrestle
with the men of this generation, as with the Patriarch of old, and it is our own fault if a
blessing be not extorted ere they take their flight. Principles, like those which in the earlier
days of the republic elevated men into statesmen, are now again in the field, chasing the policies
which have dwarfed their sons into politicians. These things are portentous of change,--perhaps
sudden, but, however delayed, inevitable.

And this change, whatever the outward shape in which it may incarnate itself, in the fulness
of time, will come of changed ideas, opinions, and feelings in the general mind and heart.
All institutions, even those of the oldest of despotisms, exist by the permission and consent
of those who live under them. Change the ideas of the thronging multitudes by the banks of
the Neva, or on the shores of the Bosphorus, and they will be changed into Republicans and
Christians in the twinkling of an eye. Not merely the Kingdom of Heaven, but the kingdoms of
this world, are within us. Ideas are their substance; institutions and customs but the shadows
they cast into the visible sphere. Mould the substance anew, and the projected shadow must
represent the altered shape within. Hence the dread despots feel, and none more than the petty
despots of the plantation, of whatever may throw the light of intelligence across the mental
sight of their slaves. Men endure the ills they have, either because they think them blessings,
or because they fear lest, should they seek to fly them, it might be to others that they know
not of. The present Bonaparte holds France in a chain because she is willing that he should.
Let her but breathe upon the padlock, and, like that in the fable, it will fade into air, and
he and his dynasty will vanish with it. So the people of the North submit to the domination
of the South because they are used to it, and are doubtful as to what may replace it. Whenever
the millions, North and South, whom Slavery grinds under her heel, shall be resolutely minded
that her usurpation shall cease, it will disappear, and forever. As soon as the stone is thrown
the giant will die, and men will marvel that they endured him so long. But this can only come
to pass by virtue of a change yet to be wrought in the hearts and minds of men. Ideas everywhere
are royal;--here they are imperial. It is the great office of genius, and eloquence, and sacred
function, and conspicuous station, and personal influence to herald their approach and to prepare
the way before them, that they may assert their state and give holy laws to the listening nation.
Thus a glorious form and pressure may be given to the coming age. Thus the ideal of a true
republic, of a government of laws made and executed by the people, of which bards have sung
and prophets dreamed, and for which martyrs have suffered and heroes died, may yet be possible
to us, and the great experiment of this Western World be indeed a Model, instead of a Warning
to the nations.

MY PORTRAIT GALLERY.

    Oft round my hall of portraiture I gaze,
    By Memory reared, the artist wise and holy,
    From stainless quarries of deep-buried days.
    There, as I muse in soothing melancholy,
    Your faces glow in more than mortal youth,
    Companions of my prime, now vanished wholly,--
    The loud, impetuous boy, the low-voiced maiden.
    Ah, never master that drew mortal breath
    Can match thy portraits, just and generous Death,
    Whose brush with sweet regretful tints is laden!
    Thou paintest that which struggled here below
    Half understood, or understood for woe,
    And, with a sweet forewarning,
    Mak'st round the sacred front an aureole glow
    Woven of that light that rose on Easter morning.

LITERARY NOTICES.

Homoeopathic Domestic Physician, etc., etc. By J. H. PULTE, M.D., Author of "Woman's Medical
Guide," etc. Twenty-fourth thousand. Cincinnati: Moore, Wilstach, Keys, & Co. London: James
Epps, 170, Piccadilly, 1857.

Of course the reader understands the following notice to be written by a venerable practitioner,
who carries a gold-headed cane, and does not believe in any medical authority later than Sydenham.
Listen to him, then, and remember that if anything in the way of answer, or remonstrance, or
controversial advertisement is sent to the head-quarters of this periodical, it will go directly
into the basket, which, entering, a manuscript leaves all hope behind. The "old salts" of the
"Atlantic" do not go for non-committal and neutrality, or any of that kind of nonsense. Our
oracle with the gold stick must have the ground to himself, or keep his wisdom for another
set of readers. A quarrel between "Senex" and "Fairplay" would be amusing, but expensive. We
have no space for it; and the old gentleman, though he can use his cane smartly for one of
his age, positively declines the game of single-stick. Hear him.

--The book mentioned above lies before us with its valves open, helpless as an oyster on its
shell, inviting the critical pungent, the professional acid, and the judicial impaling trident.
We will be merciful. This fat little literary mollusk is well-conditioned, of fair aspect,
and seemingly good of its kind. Twenty-four thousand individuals,--we have its title-page as
authority,--more or less lineal descendants of Solomon, have become the fortunate possessors
of this plethoric guide to earthly immortality. They might have done worse; for the work is
well printed, well arranged, and typographically creditable to the great publishing-house which
honors Cincinnati by its intelligent enterprise. The purchasers have done very wisely in buying
a book which will not hurt their eyes. Mr. Otis Clapp, bibliopolist, has the work, and will
be pleased to supply it to an indefinite number of the family above referred to.

--Men live in the immediate neighborhood of a great menagerie, the doors of which are always
open. The beasts of prey that come out are called diseases. They feed upon us, and between
their teeth we must all pass sooner or later,--all but a few, who are otherwise taken care
of. When these animals attack a man, most of them give him a scratch or a bite, and let him
go. Some hold on a little while; some are carried about for weeks or months, until the carrier
drops down, or they drop off. By and by one is sure to come along that drags down the strongest,
and makes an end of him.

Most people know little or nothing of these beasts, until all at once they find themselves
attacked by one of them. They are therefore liable to be frightened by those that are not dangerous,
and careless with those that are destructive. They do not know what will soothe, and what will
exasperate them. They do not even know the dens of many of them, though they are close to their
own dwellings.

A physician is one that has lived among these beasts, and studied their aspects and habits.
He knows them all well, and looks them in the face, and lays his hand on their backs daily.
They seem, as it were, to know him, and to greet him with such risus sardonicus as they can
muster. He knows that his friends and himself have all got to be eaten up at last by them,
and his friends have the same belief. Yet they want him near them at all times, and with them
when they are set upon by any of these their natural enemies. He goes, knowing pretty well
what he can do and what he cannot.

He can talk to them in a quiet and sensible way about these terrible beings, concerning which
they are so ignorant, and liable to harbor such foolish fancies. He can frighten away some
of the lesser kind of animals with certain ill-smelling preparations he carries about him.
Once in a while he can draw the teeth of some of the biggest, or throttle them. He can point
out their dens, and so keep many from falling into their jaws.

This is a great deal to promise or perform, but it is not all that is expected of him. Sick
people are very apt to be both fools and cowards. Many of them confess the fact in the frankest
possible way. If you doubt it, ask the next dentist about the wisdom and courage of average
manhood under the dispensation of a bad tooth. As a tooth is to a liver, so are the dentists'
patients to the doctors', in the want of the two excellences above mentioned.

Those not over-wise human beings called patients are frequently a little unreasonable. They
come with a small scratch, which Nature will heal very nicely in a few days, and insist on
its being closed at once with some kind of joiner's glue. They want their little coughs cured,
so that they may breathe at their ease, when they have no lungs left that are worth mentioning.
They would have called in Luke the physician to John the Baptist, when his head was in the
charger, and asked for a balsam that would cure cuts. This kind of thing cannot be done. But
it is very profitable to lie about it, and say that it can be done. The people who make a business
of this lying, and profiting by it, are called quacks.

--But as patients wish to believe in all manner of "cures," and as all doctors love to believe
in the power of their remedies and as nothing is more open to self-deception than medical experience,
the whole matter of therapeutics has always been made a great deal more of than the case would
justify. It has been an inflated currency,--fifty pretences on paper, to one fact of true,
ringing metal.

Many of the older books are full of absurd nostrums. A century ago, Huxham gave messes to his
patients containing more than four hundred ingredients. Remedies were ordered that must have
been suggested by the imagination; things odious, abominable, unmentionable; flesh of vipers,
powder of dead men's bones, and other horrors, best mused in expressive silence. Go to the
little book of Robert Boyle,--wise man, philosopher, revered of cures for the most formidable
diseases, many of them of this fantastic character, that disease should seem to have been a
thing that one could turn off at will, like gas or water in our houses. Only there were rather
too many specifics in those days. For if one has "an excellent approved remedy" that never
fails, it seems unnecessary to print a list of twenty others for the same purpose. This is
wanton excess; it is gilding the golden pill, and throwing fresh perfume on the Mistura Assafoetidae.

As the observation of nature has extended, and as mankind have approached the state of only
semi-barbarism in which they now exist, there has been an improvement. The materia medica has
been weeded; much that was worthless and revolting has been thrown overboard; simplicity has
been introduced into prescriptions; and the whole business of drugging the sick has undergone
a most salutary reform. The great fact has been practically recognized, that the movements
of life in disease obey laws which, under the circumstances, are on the whole salutary, and
only require a limited and occasional interference by any special disturbing agents. The list
of specifics has been reduced to a very brief catalogue, and the delusion which had exaggerated
the power of drugging for so many generations has been tempered down by sound and systematic
observation.

Homoeopathy came, and with one harlequin bound leaped out of its century backwards into the
region of quagmires and fogs and mirages, from which true medical science was painfully emerging.
All the trumpery of exploded pharmacopoeias was revived under new names. Even the domain of
the loathsome has been recently invaded, and simpletons are told in the book before us to swallow
serpents' poison; nay, it is said that the pediculis capitis is actually prescribed in infusion,--hunted
down in his capillary forest, and transferred to the digestive organs of those he once fed upon.

It falsely alleged one axiom as the basis of existing medical practice, namely, Contraria contrarüs
curantur,--"Contraries are cured by contraries." No such principle was ever acted upon, exclusively,
as the basis of medical practice. The man who does not admit it as one of the principles of
practice would, on medical principles, refuse a drop of cold water to cool the tongue of Dives
in fiery torments. The only unconditional principle ever recognized by medical science has
been, that diseases are to be treated by the remedies that experience shows to be useful. The
universal use of both cold and hot external and internal remedies in various inflammatory states
puts the garrote at once on the babbling throat of the senseless assertion of the homaeopathists,
and stultifies for all time the nickname "allopathy."

It falsely alleged a second axiom, Similia similibus curantur,--"Like is cured by like,"--as
the basis of its own practice; for it does not keep to any such rule, as every page of the
book before us abundantly shows.

It subjected credulous mankind to the last of indignities, in forcing it to listen to that
doctrine of infinitesimals and potencies which is at once the most epigrammatic of paradoxes,
and the crowning exploit of pseudo-scientific audacity.

It proceeded to prove itself true by juggling statistics; some of the most famous of which,
we may remark, are very well shown up by Professor Worthington Hooker, in a recent essay. And
having done all these things, it sat down in the shadow of a brazen bust of its founder, and
invited mankind to join in the Barmecide feast it had spread on the coffin of Science; who,
however, proved not to have been buried in it,--indeed, not to have been buried at all.

Of course, it had, and has, a certain success. Its infinitesimal treatment being a nullity,
patients are never hurt by drugs, when it is adhered to. It pleases the imagination. It is
image-worship, relic-wearing, holy-water-sprinkling, transferred from the spiritual world to
that of the body. Poets accept it; sensitive and spiritual women become sisters of charity
in its service. It does not offend the palate, and so spares the nursery those scenes of single
combat in which infants were wont to yield at length to the pressure of the spoon and the imminence
of asphyxia. It gives the ignorant, who have such an inveterate itch for dabbling in physic,
a book and a doll's medicine-chest, and lets them play doctors and doctresses without fear
of having to call in the coroner. And just so long as unskilful and untaught people cannot
tell coincidences from cause and effect in medical practice,--which to do, the wise and experienced
know how difficult!--so long it will have plenty of "facts" to fall back upon. Who can blame
a man for being satisfied with the argument, "I was ill, and am well,--great is Hahnemann!"?
Only this argument serves all impostors and impositions. It is not of much value, but it is
irresistible, and therefore quackery is immortal.

Homaeopathy is one of its many phases; the most imaginative, the most elegant, and, it is fair
to say, the least noxious in its direct agencies. "It is melancholy,"--we use the recent words
of the world-honored physician of the Queen's household, Sir John Forbes,--"to be forced to
make admissions in favor of a system so utterly false and despicable as Homaeopathy." Yet we
must own that it may have been indirectly useful, as the older farce of the weapon ointment
certainly was, in teaching medical practitioners to place more reliance upon nature. Most scientific
men see through its deceptions at a glance. It may be practised by shrewd men and by honest
ones; rarely, it must be feared, by those who are both shrewd and honest. As a psychological
experiment on the weakness of cultivated minds, it is the best trick of the century.

--Here the old gentleman took his cane and walked out to cool himself.

FOREIGN.

It is an old remark of Lessing, often repeated, but nevertheless true, that Frenchmen, as a
general rule, are sadly deficient in the mental powers suited to objective observation, and
therefore eminently disqualified for reliable reports of travels. Among the host of French
writing travellers or travelling writers, on whatever foreign countries, there have always
been very few who looked at foreign countries, nations, institutions, and achievements, with
anything like fairness of judgment and capacity of understanding. For an average Frenchman,
Molière's renowned juxtaposition of

    "Paris, la cour, le monde, l'univers,"

is a gospel down to this day; and no country can so justly complain of being constantly misunderstood
and misrepresented by French tourists as ours. The more difficult it is for a Frenchman not
to glance through colored spectacles from the Palais Royal at whatever does not belong to "the
Great Nation," the more praise those few of them deserve who give to the world correct and
impartial impressions of travel and reliable ethnological works.

Such is the case with two works which we are glad to recommend to our readers. The first is

La Norwège, par LOUIS ENAULT. Paris: Hachette. 1857.

Norway, though a member of the European family, with a population once so influential in the
world's history, is comparatively the least known of all civilized countries to the world at
large, and what little we know of it is of a very recent date,--Stephens's and Leopold von
Buch's works being not much more than a quarter of a century old, while Bayard Taylor's lively
sketches in the "New York Tribune" are almost wet still, and not yet complete. The latter and
M. Enault's book, when compared with each other, leave not the slightest doubt that each observes
carefully and conscientiously in his own way, that both possess peculiar gifts for studying
and describing correctly what there is worth studying and describing in this terra incognita,
and that we can rely on both. Mr. Taylor is more picturesque, lively, fascinating, and drastic;
M. Enault more thorough, quiet, and reserved in the expression of his opinions. The parts seem
to be interchanged,--the Frenchman exhibiting more of the Anglo-Saxon, the American more of
the French genius; but both confirm each other's statements admirably, and should be read side
by side. If our readers wish to make themselves thoroughly acquainted with the workings of
the laws and institutions, with the statistical, economical, and geographical facts, the society
and manners, the later history and future prospects of Norway, they will find here a work trustworthy
in every respect.

Les Anglais et l'Inde, avec Notes, Pièces justificatives et Tableaux statistiques, par E. DE
VALBEZEN. Paris. 1857.

This is no narrative of travel, though evidently written by one who has been for a considerable
time an eyewitness of Indian affairs, and by a man of acute mind and quick and comprehensive
perception, thoroughly versed in the history and condition of India. It is a treatise on all
those topics bearing upon the present political, social, and commercial state of things there,
beginning with the exposition of the English governmental institutions there existing, describing
the country, its productions and resources, its various populations, its social relations,
its agriculture, commerce, and wealth, and concluding with statistical and other documents
in support of the author's statements. It gives a nearly systematical and complete picture
of Indian affairs, enabling the reader to understand the present situation of the country and
its foreign rulers, and to form a judgment on all corresponding topics. The style is classical,
though somewhat concise and epigrammatic, giving proof everywhere of a mind that forms its
own conclusions and takes independent, statesmanlike views. The author refrains from obtruding
his own opinions on the reader, leaving things to speak for themselves. He is not ostensibly
antagonistic to the English, as we should expect from a true Frenchman,--is no cordial hater
of "perfide Albion." You cannot, from his book, with any show of reason, infer that he is a
Jesuit, a French missionary, a merchant, a governmental employé, or a simple traveller; but
you feel instinctively that he is wide-awake, shrewd, and reserved, and that you may trust
his reports in the main. He refers, for proof of his statements, mostly to English documents,
and does not try to preoccupy your mind. Particularly noteworthy is what he says of the political
economy of India; he controverts effectively the prevailing opinion that it is the richest
country in the world,--showing its real poverty, in spite of its great natural resources, and
the almost hopeless task of improving these resources. For the American merchant this is a
very readable book, warning him to refrain from too hastily investing his capital and enterprise
in Indian commerce,--India being the most insecure of all countries for foreign commercial
undertakings; and in general, there are so many entirely new and startling revelations in it,
that, to any one interested in Indian matters, it well repays reading.

Histoire de la Révolution Française, (1789-1799,) Par THÉOD. H. BARRAU. Paris: Hachette. 1857.

We cannot vouch that we have here a new, original history of this important epoch, based on
an independent study of historical sources; but it is the very first history of the French
Revolution we have known, not written in a partisan spirit, and bent on falsifying the facts
in order to make political capital or to flatter national prejudices. It bears no evidence
of any tendency whatever,--perhaps only because, with its more than five hundred pages, it
is too short for that.

Histoire de France au XVI. Siècle, par MICHÉLET. Tom. 10. Henri IV. et Richelieu.

Michélet is too well known as a truly Republican historiographer and truly humane and noble
writer, and the former volumes of this history have been too long before the public, to require
for this volume a particular recommendation. It begins with the last décade of the sixteenth
century, and concludes with the year 1626. We are no particular admirers of Michélet's historical
style and method of delineation, but we acknowledge his sense of historical justice, his unprejudiced
mind, and his Republicanism, even when treating a subject so delicate, and so dear to Frenchmen,
as Henry IV. Doing justice to whatever was really admirable in the character of this much beloved
king, he overthrows a good many superstitious ideas current concerning him even down to our
days. He shows that the Utopian, though benevolent project, ascribed to Henry, of establishing
an everlasting peace by revising the map of Europe and constituting a political equilibrium
between the several European powers, never in fact existed in the king's mind, nor even in
Sully's, whom he equally divests of much unfounded glory and fictitious greatness. No doubt,
but for his fickleness and inconsistency, Henry could have done a good deal toward realizing
such ideas and reforming European politics; but it is saying too much for Henry's influence
on the popular opinions of Europe, to affirm, what Michélet gives us to understand, that he
could have combined the nations of Europe against all their depraved rulers together.

La Liberté, par ÉMILE DE GIRARDIN. Paris. 1857.

This book contains a discussion between the author and M. de Lourdoueix, ex-editor of the "Gazette
de France," written in the form of letters, on the various topics connected with the notion
of Liberty. Girardin is, no doubt, the most genial of all living French writers on Socialism
and Politics. He belongs neither to the fanatical school of Communists and Social Equalizers
by force and "par ordre da Mufti," nor to the class of pliable tools of Imperial or Royal Autocracy.
He is the only writer who, in the face of the prevailing restrictions upon the press in France,
dares to speak out his whole mind, and to preach the Age of Reason in Politics and in the Social
System. He is full of new ideas, which should, we think, be very attractive to American readers;
and it is, indeed, strange that his writings are so little read and reviewed on this side of
the ocean. His ideas on general education, on the total extinction of authority or government,
on the abolition of public punishments of every kind, on the doing away with standing armies,
war, and tyranny, and on making the State a great Assurance Company against all imaginable
misfortunes and their consequences, are a fair index of the best philosophemes of the European
mind since the last Revolution. We do not say that we approve every one of his issues and conclusions,
but we insist most earnestly, that this book and similar ones, bearing testimony to what the
political and social thinkers of the day in Europe are revolving in their minds, should be
read and reviewed under the light of American institutions and ideas. The reader enjoys in
the present book the great advantage of seeing the ideas of the Social Reformers discussed
pro and contra,--M. Lourdoueix being their obstinate adversary.

Mémoires de M. Joseph Prudhomme, par HENRI MONNIER. 2 vols. Paris. 1857.

This is not what is commonly called mémoires,--to wit, historical recollections modified by
the subjective impressions of eyewitnesses to the past; it is rather a novel or romance in
the form of mémoires, ridiculing the predominant bourgeoisie of the Old World, and sketching
the whole life of a bourgeois, from infancy to green old age. For readers, who, through travel
in Europe and acquaintance with French literature and tastes, are enabled to understand the
many nice allusions contained in this novel, it is a very entertaining book.

1. Kraft und Stoff. By G. BÜCHNER. Fourth edition. 1857.

2. Materie und Geist. By the same. 1857.

It is certainly a remarkable sign of the times, that a book treating of purely scientific matters,--physiological
facts and ideas,--like the first of these, of which the second is the complement, should in
a very few years have attained to its fourth edition in Germany. All those works on Natural
Science, by Alexander von Humboldt, Oersted, Du Bois-Raymond, Cotta, Vogt, Moleschott, Büchner,
Rossmässler, Ule, Müller, and others, which have appeared since the Revolution of 1848, uniting
a more popular and intelligible style with a purely scientific treatment of the matter-of-fact,
irrespective of the religious and political dogmas that conflict with the results of natural
science, have met with decided success in Germany and France. They are extensively read and
appreciated, even by the less educated and learned classes. Among these works, that of Büchner
ranks high, and it is therefore strange that we have seen it hitherto reviewed in no American
journal. This may serve us as an excuse for noticing this fourth edition, though it is little
improved over the former ones. It exhibits the last results of the science of physiology, in
a scientific, but rather popular method of exposition. There is quite a hive of new ideas and
intuitions contained in it,--ideas conflicting, it is true, with many received dogmas, and
irreconcilable with orthodoxy; but it is of no use to shut our eyes to these ideas, as though
the danger threatening from this side could be averted by imitating the policy of the ostrich.
They should be faced and examined; the danger is far greater from ignoring them. It is impossible
that ideas, largely entertained and cultivated by a nation so expert in thinking, so versed
in science and literature as the Germans, should have no interest for the great, intelligent
American public. Natural Science may be said to form, at present, an integral portion of the
religion of the Germans. It is, at least, a matter of ethnological and historical interest
to learn in what regions of thought and speculation our German contemporaries are at home,
and wherein they find their mental happiness and delight. Von IGNAZ HUB. Nürnberg: Ebner. 1857.

Two volumes of this interesting work are coming out at the same time,--one containing the second
of the five parts into which the prose anthology is divided, with comical and humorous pieces
from the sixteenth century, (for instance, extracts from "Fortunatus," the "Historia" of Dr.
J. Faust, "Die Schildbürger," Desid, Erasmus's "Gespräche," etc.,)--the other containing a
collection of poetry of the same kind, belonging to the present century, and forming part of
the third volume, with pieces by Uhland, Eichendorff, Rückert, Sapphir, Wm. Müller, Immermann,
Palten, Hoffmann, Kopisch, Heine, Lenau, Möricke, Grün, Wackernagel, and many others. The anthology
is accompanied with biographical and historical notes, and explanations of provincialisms and
such words as to the American reader of German would be likely to be otherwise unintelligible;
so that he may thus, without too much trouble, satisfactorily enjoy this treasury of entertainment.
The Germans may well be proud of such literary riches, in which England alone surpasses them.

Thüringer Naturen, Charakter-und Sittenbilder in Erzählungen. Von OTTO LUDWIG. Erster Band.
Die Heiterethei und ihr Widerspiel. Frankfurt. 1857.

This is one of the numerous imitations of the celebrated "Dorfgeschichten," by Berthold Auerbach.
The latter introduced, in a time of literary poverty, a wide range of new subjects for epical
treatment,--the life of German peasants, with their simple, healthy, vigorous natures undepraved
by a spurious civilization. In painting these sinewy figures, full of a character of their
own, he was very felicitous, had an enormous success, and drew a host of less gifted followers
after him. Herr Ludwig is one of these. We shall not despair of his becoming, at some future
time, a second Auerbach; but he is not one yet. There is, in this work, too much spreading
out and extenuation of a material which, in itself not very rich and varied, requires great
skill to mould into an epic form. But the author has a remarkable power of drawing true, lifelike
characters, and developing them psychologically. It is refreshing to see that the German literary
taste is becoming gradually more realistic, pure, and natural, turning its back on the romantic
school of the French.

May Carols. By AUBREY DE VERE. London. 1857.

The name of Aubrey de Vere has for some years past been familiar to the lovers of poetry, as
that of a scholarly and genial poet. His successive volumes have shown a steady growth in poetic
power and elevation of spirit. While gaining a firmer mastery over the instruments of poetry
he has struck from them a deeper, fuller, and more significant tone. In this his last volume,
which has lately appeared, his verse is brought completely into the service of the Church.
The "May Carols" are poems celebrating the Virgin Mary in her month of May. For that month,
and for the Roman church, Mr. De Vere has done in this volume what Keble did for the festivals
of the year, and the English church, in his "Christian Year." Catholicism in England has produced
no poet since the days of Crashaw so sincere in his piety, so sweet in his melody, so pure
in spirit as De Vere. And the volume is not for Roman Catholic readers alone. Others may be
touched by its religious fervor, and charmed with its beauties of description or of feeling.
It is full and redolent of spring. The sweetness of the May air flows through many of its verses,--of
that season when

    Trees, that from winter's gray eclipse
      Of late but pushed their topmost plume,
    Or felt with green-touched finger-tips
      For spring, their perfect robes assume.

    While, vague no more, the mountains stand
      With quivering line or hazy hue;
    But drawn with finer, firmer, hand,
      And settling into deeper blue.

Mr. De Vere is an exquisite student of nature, with fine perceptions that have been finely
cultivated. Take this picture of the lark:--

    From his cold nest the skylark springs;
      Sings, pauses, sings; shoots up anew;
    Attains his topmost height, and sings
      Quiescent in his vault of blue.

And here is a description of the later spring:--

    Brow-bound with myrtle and with gold,
      Spring, sacred now from blasts and blights,
    Lifts in a firm, untrembling hold
      Her chalice of fulfilled delights.

    Confirmed around her queenly lip
      The smile late wavering, on she moves;
    And seems through deepening tides to step
      Of steadier joys and larger loves.

The little volume contains many passages such as these. We have space to quote but one of the
poems complete, to show the manner in which Mr. De Vere unites the real, the symbolic, and
the external, with the spiritual. Like most of his poems, it is marked by artistic finish and
grace, and many of the lines have a natural beauty of unsought alliteration and assonance.

    When all the breathless woods aloof
      Lie hushed in noontide's deep repose
    The dove, sun-warmed on yonder roof,
      With what a grave content she coos!

    One note for her! Deep streams run smooth:
      The ecstatic song of transience tells.
    O, what a depth of loving truth
      In thy divine contentment dwells!

    All day with down-dropt lids I sat
      In trance; the present scene foregone.
    When Hesper rose, on Ararat,
      Methought, not English hills, he shone.

    Back to the Ark, the waters o'er,
      The primal dove pursued her flight:
    A branch of that blest tree she bore
      Which feeds the Church with holy light.

    I heard her rustling through the air
      With sliding plume,--no sound beside,
    Save the sea-sobbings everywhere,
      And sighs of the subsiding tide.