EVER since it became known that, in conformity with the general interest in the condition of
the Stock and Share Market, now manifested by all classes of readers, you had determined to
start your own special "Corner," for the purpose of keeping your eye on the matter, and had
appointed me as your "City Commissioner," if I have been flooded with applications from Stock-jobbers,
tendering their advice, I may say I have been literally overwhelmed by applications from clients
and outsiders, asking me for mine. With five tapes always on the move, telephonic communication
with everywhere, and my telegraphic address of "Panjimcracks," comfortably installed in a third-floor
flat in commanding premises, within a stone's throw of the Stock Exchange, I flatter myself
that, at least in all the surroundings of my position, I am, acting under your instructions,
well up to the mark.

You would wish naturally to know something of the state of the market, and would doubtless
like to hear from me, if there is any particular investment that I can recommend as safe for
a rise. I have been giving some attention lately to

    PATAGONIAN CROCODILES,

but from news that has reached me from a private and most reliable source (I hear that the
Chairman and Directors, who have gone off with the balance-sheet have disappeared, and have
not been heard of for months) I should strongly advise, if you hold any of it, to get rid of
it, if you can, as soon as possible. I have a similar tale to tell about

    HERNEBAY Z'S.

This Stock has been run up by purchasers for the fall; and, though in October last it somehow
touched 117-3/8, it is now standing at 9-1/4, and, spite the rumours of increased traffic receipts
(due to the fact that a family drove up to the station last week in a cab), artfully put into
circulation by interested holders, I would certainly get out of it before the issue of the
forthcoming Report, which I hear, on good authority, not only announces the payment of no dividend
on the Debenture Stock, but makes the unwelcome statement to the shareholders of the prospective
seizure of the whole of the rolling stock under a debtors' summons, a catastrophe that must
land the affairs of the Company in inevitable bankruptcy. Under these circumstances, I do not
think I can conscientiously advise you to "hold;" still, you might watch the Market for a day
or two; but, at any rate, take my advice, and get rid of your "Crocodiles."

I subjoin some of my correspondence:--

    DEAR SIR,--I am in the somewhat embarrassing position of being
    responsible for £5000 under the marriage settlement of a niece,
    that, owing to my want of financial knowledge, has, I fear, been
    somewhat injudiciously, if not absolutely, illegally invested by my
    Co-Trustee. Though the settlement stipulates that only Government
    Stocks and Railway Debentures are available, I find that the money
    at the present moment is thus disposed  of:--

                                      Purchasing  Present  Last
      Security.                       Price.      Price.   Div.

£1000 Kangaroo Copper Trust            193        13-1/8   None

 2000 Bursters' Patent Coffin Company  157         4       None

 1000 Battersea Gold Syndicate         235         7-1/2   None

  500 International Balloon Transit    170         Nil.    None

  500 Bolivian Spasmodics              194         9-1/8   None

You see it is not so much the depreciated value of the Securities, which certainly read well,
but the absence of the Dividend which perplexes me. What would be your advice? Should I sell,
or continue to hold?

    A PUZZLED TRUSTEE.

We should certainly hold.

    SIR,--Acting on the advice of a friend who is in the Directorate, I
    have largely invested in the Automatic Hair-cutting Company. Owing,
    however, to the fact that customers, who will not hold their heads
    properly, have on several occasions latterly had their ears trimmed,
    and a pattern cut on their necks, several actions for heavy damages
    have been brought against the concern. These having been successful
    in every case, the Company is virtually ruined, and the shares are,
    in consequence, almost unsaleable. What should I do with mine?

    AN ANXIOUS SPECULATOR.

Hold. The Company has evidently touched bottom. Wait for the rise.

You will see from the above specimens, taken at random from a heap of others, that I utterly
deprecate panic. "Never cut losses" is the wholesome and cheerful advice I give all my clients.
There cannot be a doubt about it being thoroughly sound; for it stands to reason if no one
were to sell out, no securities would ever fall. So, to nine out of ten who ask my advice I
invariably say, "Hold." Though I have several stocks in prospective, the movements of which
I am watching most attentively, I have, I confess, hardly got things into proper working order
yet, but I have a grand scheme on foot that will, I fancy, take the wind out of the sails of
many hitherto successful Stockdealers. In my new system three-and-sixpence will cover £500!
Here will be a chance for even the schoolboy to taste the delights of Monte Carlo. But more
of this later. Suffice it to say, that I have a "Combination Pool" in my eye, that if I can
only carry out with the right sort of stock, ought to make the fortune of every one concerned.

       *       *       *       *       *

THEATRICAL SHORT SERVICE BILL.--CHARLES THE SECOND (WYNDHAM) is following in the footsteps
of CHARLES THE FIRST (MATHEWS) and beginning to play several short pieces as one entertainment,
instead of giving a three-act farce or comedy, and one brief and unimportant curtain-raiser.
At least, he is Trying It On. How far preferable, in the summer and autumn season, would be
an evening bill of fare consisting of three entrées, each of a different character, and all
of first-rate quality. The patron of the drama could pick and choose, and be satisfied with
an hour, or two hours, or three hours' entertainment. How much better for the actor's art,
too, by way of varying his rôles. The stall people would rather pay the present price of half
a guinea for anything, however short, which it was the fashion to see, than for a long piece
which only bores them. To see short pieces, they might come two or three times instead of once,
and the management could make a reduction on taking a quantity.

There is a small fortune waiting for this CHARLES, or t'other CHARLES, 'yclept HAWTREY, whichever
may take up the idea and work it.

  AUDI MAGISTRUM PUNCHIUM.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

STANLEY AFRICANUS!

Mr. Punch loquitur:--

  "MR. STANLEY, I presume!" Well, the crowd will fuss and fume,
    From the mob you'll get, no doubt, a noisy greeting:;
  But I'm pleased to take your hand on the threshold of the land;
    This is truly a most gratifying meeting!
  Nay, no need for you to blush, for I am not going to gush
    There are plenty who'll indulge in fuss and flummery.
  Heroes like to be admired, but you'll probably be tired
    Of tall-talk ere this spring greenery shows summery.
  "An illustrious pioneer," says the Belgian King. 'Tis clear
    That at any rate you've earned that appellation.
  True words tell, though tattlers twist 'em, and a "mighty fluvial system"
    You have opened up no doubt to civilisation.
  Spreading tracts of territory 'tis your undisputed glory
    To have footed for the first time (save by savages),
  The result will be that Trade will there supersede the raid
    Of the slaver, and the ruthless chieftain's ravages.
  That is useful work well done, and it hasn't been all fun,
    As you found in that huge awful tract of forest,
  And you must have felt some doubt of your chance of winning out
    Of all perils when your need was at the sorest.
  Mortal sickness now and then, and the pranks of lesser men,
    Must have tried your iron health and steely temper.
  But, like SCIPIO of old, you 're as patient as you're bold,
    And you turn up tough and timely, idem semper!

  STANLEY AFRICANUS! Yes, that's a fitting name, I guess,
    For as stout a soul as PUBLIUS CORNELIUS;
  And now, probably, there's no man will not dub you "noblest Roman,"
    Though you once had many a foeman contumelious.
  Have them still? Oh yes, no doubt; but just now they'll scarce speak out
    In a tone to mar the laudatory chorus:
  Though when once they've had a look, HENRY mine, in your Big Book,
    They with snips, and snaps, and snarls, are sure to bore us.
  Well, that will not matter much if you only keep in touch
    With all that is humane, and wise, and manly.
  Your time has been well spent in that huge Dark Continent,
    And all England's word to-day is, "Welcome, STANLEY!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

In his By Order of the Czar Mr. JOSEPH HATTON exposes the cruelties of Muscovite rule in the
most trenchant yet entertaining fashion. The headings to the chapters (to say nothing of their
contents) are exciting to a degree, and consequently it is not altogether surprising that the
Russian officials, possibly hearing that the three handsome volumes might cause a revolution,
should have refused them admission to the Emperor's dominions. Be this as it may, in each of
the aforesaid handsome volumes appears a slip of yellow paper, announcing that "it is prohibited
by the Government of the CZAR from circulation in Russia." How fortunate--not, of course, for
the Russians, poor things, to be deprived of this treat--but how fortunate that it is not prohibited
here! With Mr. JOSEPH HATTON continuously in his thoughts, the BARON has sung ever since--not
only "In the Gloaming," be it understood, but during the following day, and well into the succeeding
night--"Best for him (J. H), and best for me (B. DE B. W.)." The novel should have a large
general circulation, in spite of the boycotting to which it has been locally subjected in St.
Petersburg, Moscow, and Siberia.

Miss JEANIE MIDDLEMASS has made a step in the right direction by publishing Two False Moves.
Like all her work, the new novel is deeply interesting. As it is full of "go," it is sure to
be continually on the march in the circulating libraries.

In Miss Mephistopheles, Mr. FEARGUS HUME gives us a story much in advance of The Mystery of
a Hansom Cab. It is better in construction, its character sketches are more life-like, and
its literary style is superior--therefore there is every chance of its not being so successful
with the general public.

  BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

COURT NAPPING.

