NEW SERIES.  SATURDAY, JANUARY 24, 1852.

THE DROLLERIES OF FALSE POLITICAL ECONOMY.

PLANS FOR PAYING THE NATIONAL DEBT.

It is not customary to associate the ludicrous with financial operations--with budgets, schemes
of taxation, and national debts. In general, they are considered to assume a formidable aspect;
and when that is not the case, their details are looked on as dry and uninteresting--they are
universally voted a 'bore.' Yet we engage to shew, that there have been some financial projects
which at the present day we can pronounce essentially ludicrous. And they are not the mere
projects of enthusiasts and theoretic dreamers. They were put in practice on a large scale;
they involved the disposal of millions of money; and they were in operation at so late a period,
that the present generation paid heavy taxes for the purpose of carrying them out--taxes paid
for nothing better than the success of a practical hoax.

The round hundreds of millions in which our national debt is set forth seem to have often confused
the brains of our most practical arithmeticians and financiers. They seem to have felt as if
these did not represent real money, but something ideal; or perhaps we might say, they have
treated them like certain results of the operation of figures which might be neutralised by
others, as the equivalents on the two sides of an equation exhaust each other. We never hear
of a man trying to pay his own personal debts otherwise than with money, but we have had hundreds
of projects for paying the national debt without money, and generally through some curious
and ingenious arithmetical process. We might perhaps amuse our readers by an account of some
of these, for to their absurdity there are no bounds; but we adhere in the meantime to our
engagement, to shew that on this subject even the practical projects of statesmen of our own
day have been ridiculous.

We shall suppose that some one has occasion for L.100, which he finds a friend obliging enough
to lend him. On receiving it, he requests the loan of other L.10; and being asked for what
purpose, he answers, that with that L.10 he will pay up the original L.100. This is a rather
startling proposal; but when he is asked how he is to manage this practical paradox, he says:
'Oh, I shall put out the L.10 to interest, and in the course of time it will increase until
it pays off the L.100.' The lender is perhaps a little staggered at first by the audacious
plausibility of the proposal, but it requires but a few seconds to enable him to say: 'Why,
yes, you may lend out the L.10 at interest; but in the meantime, as you have borrowed it, interest
runs against you upon it; so what better are you?' The lender, so far from concurring with
the sanguine hopes about the fructification of the L.10, will only regret his having intrusted
the larger sum to a person whose notions of money are so loose and preposterous.

Yet the proposal would only have carried into private pecuniary matters the principle of the
sinking-fund, so long deemed a blessing, and a source of future prosperity to the country.
A sinking-fund is an expression generally applied to any sum of money reserved out of expenditure
to pay debt, or meet any contingency. Now, observe that our remarks are not directed against
it in this simple form. A surplus of revenue obtained by moderate taxation, saved through frugal
expenditure, and applied to the reduction of the national debt, is always a good thing. But
the sinking-fund to which we chiefly refer was a system of borrowing money to pay debt. It
might be said that the identical money which was borrowed was not the same which was used for
paying the debt; but it came to the same thing if the sinking-fund was kept up while the nation
was borrowing. Thus, taking the case of the private borrower as we have already put it, if
he took L.10 of his own money and put it out at interest, that it might increase and pay off
his loan, and if, by so doing, he found it necessary to borrow L.110, instead of merely L.100,
it was virtually the same as if he applied L.10 of the borrowed money for his sinking-fund.
Thus for the year 1808, the state required L.12,200,000 in loan above what the taxes produced.
But in the same year L.1,200,000 were applied to the sinking-fund; consequently, it was necessary
to borrow so much more, and therefore the whole loan of that year amounted to L.13,400,000.
The loan was increased exactly in the way in which our friend added the L.10 to the L.100.
It was borrowing money to pay loans.

The application of millions in this manner by our statesmen, was in a great measure owing to
the enthusiastic speculations of Dr Richard Price, a benevolent, ingenious, and laborious man,
who, unfortunately for the public, possessed the power of giving his wild speculations a tangible
and practical appearance. He was, to use a common expression, 'carried off his feet' by arithmetical
calculations. He believed compound interest to be omnipotent. He made a calculation of what
a penny could have come to if laid out at compound interest from the birth of Christ to the
nineteenth century, and found it would make--we forget precisely how many globes of gold the
size of this earth. He did not say, however, where the proper investments were to be made;
how the money was to be procured; and, most serious of all, he overlooked that where one party
received such an accumulating amount of money, some other party must pay it, and to pay it
must make it. In fact, the doctor looked on the increase of money by compound interest as a
mere arithmetical process. The world, however, finds it to be a process of working, and the
making of money by toil, parsimony, and anxiety.

When any one seizes on such a theme he is sure to be carried to extremities with it. It was
one of Price's favourite theories, that the time when interest was highest was the best time
for borrowing money, because the borrowed sinking-fund would then bring the highest interest.
One is astonished in times like these, when people think taxes and national debt so serious,
at the easy carelessness with which the doctor treats the disease, and his sure remedy. He
says in his celebrated work on Annuities (i. 277): 'It is an observation that deserves particular
attention here, that in this plan it will be of less importance to a state what interest it
is obliged to give for money; for the higher the interest, the sooner will such a sum pay off
the principal. Thus, L.100,000,000 borrowed at 8 per cent., and bearing an annual interest
of L.8,000,000, would be paid off by a fund producing annually L.100,000 in fifty-six years;
that is, in thirty-eight years less time than if the same money had been borrowed at 4 per
cent. Hence it follows that reductions of interest would in this plan be no great advantage
to a state. They would indeed lighten its present burdens; but this advantage would be in some
measure balanced by the addition which would be made to its future burdens, in consequence
of the longer time during which it would be necessary to bear them.'

'Certain it is, therefore,' says the doctor, in a general survey of his arithmetical salvation
of the country, 'that if our affairs are to be relieved, it must be by a fund increasing itself
in the manner I have explained. The smallest fund of this kind is indeed omnipotent, if it
is allowed time to operate.' And again: 'It might be easily shewn that the faithful application
from the beginning of the year 1700, of only L.200,000 annually, would long before 1790, notwithstanding
the reductions of interest, have paid off above L.100,000,000 of the public debts. The nation
might therefore some years ago have been eased of a great part of the taxes with which it is
loaded. The most important relief might have been given to its trade and manufactures; and
it might now have been in better circumstances than at the beginning of last war: its credit
firm; respected by foreign nations, and dreaded by its enemies.'

That such a tone should be assumed by an enthusiastic speculator is not wonderful. The payment
of the national debt has been one of the staple dreams of enthusiasts. It would be difficult
to believe the wild nonsense that has been written on it; and Hogarth, in his dreadful picture
of a madhouse, appropriately represents one of his principal figures hard at work on it. But
the remarkable thing--and what shews the perilous nature of such speculations--is, that these
theories were worked out by chancellors of the exchequer, and adopted by parliament. There
was a faint sinking-fund so early as 1716; but Walpole one day swept it up and spent it, having
probably just discovered that it was a fallacy. It was in the days of the younger Pitt, however,
that it came out in full bloom. After it had been for several years in operation, a retired
and absent-minded mathematical student, Robert Hamilton, shewed its falsity in a book printed
in 1813. The exposure was conclusive, and no one since that time has ventured to support a
sinking-fund.

As already stated, it is a very good thing to save something out of the revenue and pay off
part of the debt. But no good is done by keeping it to accumulate at interest, because the
debt it would pay off is just accumulating against it. Apply this to private transactions.
You are in debt L.110. You have L.10, and the question is: Are you to pay it at once, and reduce
your debt to L.100, or are you to keep it accumulating at interest? It is much the same which
you do, only the latter is the more troublesome mode. If you pay it at once, you will just
have so much less interest to hand over to your creditor. If you put it out at interest, you
will have to pay over to him what you receive for it, in addition to the interest of the L.100.
There is an incidental purpose for which it has been deemed right that the government should,
however, have a fund at its disposal--that is for buying into the funds when they fall very
low, and thus accomplishing two services--the one the paying a portion of the debt at a cheap
rate, the other stopping the depreciation of the funds. This is in itself we doubt not a very
just practical object, but we believe the sums that can be applied to it are very small in
comparison with the reserves which formed the old sinking-fund.

But another and a very different argument has been adduced, not certainly for the re-establishment
and support of a sinking-fund, since its fallacy has been exposed, but against the policy of
having exposed it. It is said that the belief in the potency of a sinking-fund for clearing
off the debt inspired public confidence in the stability of the funds, and that it was wrong
to shake this confidence even by the promulgation of truth. It has often been supposed, indeed,
that the statesmen who mainly carried out the system were in secret conscious of its fallacy,
but were content to carry it out so long as they saw that it inspired confidence in the public.
It is in allusion to this that we have spoken of the sinking-fund as a great hoax. We cannot
sanction the morality of governments acting on conscious fallacies; and in this instance the
natural confidence in the funds rather enlarged than decreased when the fallacy was exposed
and the system abandoned.

Keeping in view Dr Price's views of the potentiality of compound interest, we now give a brief
account of a singular attempt made in France to put them in practice, and by their omnipotence
pay our national debt and that of other nations too, out of a small private fortune. In the
year 1794, a will was registered in France by one Fortuné Ricard, disposing of a sum of 500
livres, a little more than L.20 sterling. Fortuné stated that this sum was the result of a
present of twenty-four livres which he had received when he was a boy, and had kept accumulating
at compound interest to a period of advanced age. By his will he left it in the hands of trustees,
making arrangements for a perpetual succession, as the purposes of the trust were not to be
all accomplished for a period of several centuries. The money was to be divided into five portions,
each of 100 livres, and so to be put out at compound interest.

The first portion was to be withdrawn at the end of a century: it would then amount to 13,000
livres, or about L.550. It is scarcely worth while mentioning the purposes to which this trifle
was to be applied, but for the credit of M. Ricard it may be mentioned that they were all unexceptionable.
In two centuries the second sum would be released, amounting to 1,700,000 livres. At the end
of the third century, the third instalment was to be released, when it would consist of 226,000,000
livres. The destination of these magnificent sums was also unexceptionable--it was for national
education, the erecting of public libraries, and the like. The instalment to be released at
the end of the fourth century would amount to about 30,000,000,000 livres: it was to be employed
partly in the building of 100 towns, each containing 150,000 inhabitants, in the most agreeable
parts of France. 'In a short time,' says the benevolent founder, 'there will result from hence
an addition of 15,000,000 of inhabitants to the kingdom, and its consumption will be doubled--for
which service I hope the economists will think themselves obliged to me.' Malthus had not then
published his principles of population.

We must draw breath as we approach the destination of the fifth and last instalment. It was
to amount to four millions of millions of livres--about a hundred and seventy thousand millions
of pounds. We take for granted that Fortuné's calculations are correct, and have certainly
not taken the trouble of verifying them. Among other truly benevolent and cosmopolitan destinations
of this very handsome sum, it may be sufficient to mention these:--

'Six thousand millions shall be appropriated towards paying the national debt of France, upon
condition that the kings, our good lords and masters, shall be entreated to order the comptrollers-general
of the finances to undergo in future an examination in arithmetic before they enter on the
duties of their office.

'Twelve thousand millions shall likewise be employed in paying the public debts of England.
It may be seen that I reckon that both these national debts will be doubled in this period--not
that I have any doubt of the talents of certain ministers to increase them much more, but their
operations in this way are opposed by an infinity of circumstances, which lead me to presume
that these debts cannot be more than doubled. Besides, if they amount to a few thousands of
millions more, I declare that it is my intention that they should be entirely paid off, and
that a project so laudable should not remain unexecuted for a trifle more or less.'[1]

M. Ricard, it will be observed, must have drawn his will while royalty was in the ascendant;
it was registered during the Reign of Terror, and one would be curious to know how many weeks,
instead of centuries, his 500 livres remained sacred. Money in the most steadily-governed states--in
our own, for instance--is subject to continual casualties. The most acute men of business cannot
command perfectly certain investments for their own money--they are often miserably deceived,
and suffer heavy losses. M. Ricard, however, supposed that a set of irresponsible trustees
would for centuries always discover perfectly sure investments, and act with consummate watchfulness
and honesty. If it were possible to leave behind one money with the qualification of always
being securely invested, while the rest of the property in the world remained insecure, it
would gradually suck all the wealth of the world into its vortex. But it would require supernatural
agency to make it thus absolutely secure.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Footnote 1: See the will at length in the appendix to Lord Lauderdale's Inquiry into the Nature
and Origin of Public Wealth.]

SIR FRANCIS HEAD'S 'FAGGOT.'[2]

'A FAGGOT OF FRENCH STICKS' is the whimsical title of a work just presented to the public,
by the author of Bubbles from the Brunnen of Nassau; the said work being as respectable a specimen
of bookmaking as has ever come under our notice. The object of the writer appears to have been
to fill so much paper, by saying something about all he saw or heard of in a visit to Paris,
no matter how insignificant the circumstances; and by this ingenious means, he has actually
contrived to make up two goodly-sized volumes for the literary market.

