Both the annual and the perennial Lupines are extremely valuable for garden decoration and
for supplying an abundance of cut blooms. Each class includes a number of charming colours
and many of the flowers are delightfully scented. Not the least of their merits is the fact
that Lupines are not particular as to soil; indeed, the annual sorts will often thrive on ground
that is too poor for other and more fastidious subjects.

The annual varieties should be sown where intended to flower, as they do not transplant well.
Sow the seed in March, April, or May, and subsequently allow each specimen a space of about
eighteen inches for development.

=L. polyphyllus= is a valuable race of perennial Lupines which, from a sowing made in March
or April and treated as annuals, will produce a fine show in the following autumn. In order
to insure a display earlier in the season, however, many growers of these flowers prefer to
sow in June and July of the preceding year. Two varieties of =L. arboreus= form large bushes
which are distinctly ornamental when in full bloom. The seed should be sown in June or July
and the seedlings transplanted to flowering positions before they become very large.

==MARIGOLD==

==Tagetes. Half-hardy annual==

Marigolds of several classes are valued for the profuse display of their golden flowers in
the later summer months. The choicest are the so-called French, or =Tagetes patula=, which
have richly coloured flowers, and some of the varieties are beautifully striped. For their
high quality these Marigolds are judged by the florists' standards. The African, or =Tagetes
erecta=, make large bushy plants with flowers 'piled high' in the centre; the colours are intense
orange and yellow. in various shades. The bedding section is represented by the dwarf varieties
of =Tagetes patula=, or Dwarf French Marigolds; also by =Tagetes signata,= a very neat plant
with fine foliage and rather small orange-coloured flowers, produced in great abundance. In
hot seasons and on dry soils this proves an admirable substitute for the Calceolaria, which
does not thrive when short of food, whereas the Tagetes bears drought, the shade of trees,
and a poor soil with patience, and up to a certain point with advantage. Sow all these in March
in a moderate heat, and prick the plants out in the usual way, taking care finally to allot
them sunny positions. Seed may also be sown in the open ground at the end of April or early in May.

The section of Pot Marigolds, =Calendula officinalis=, includes two remarkably handsome varieties,
Orange King and Lemon Queen; the flowers of both are large, double, perfectly formed, and are
worth a place in the choicest garden. These may be sown on the open border in March, April,
and May, and the best place for them is in the full sun on a rather dry poor soil, but they
are not particular, provided they are not much shaded.

==MARVEL OF PERU==

==Mirabilis Jalapa. Half-hardy perennial==

This flower may be treated either as an annual or as a biennial. As an annual the plants are
very compact and effective, the leaves and flowers forming round glittering masses in the late
summer and autumn months. When the roots are saved through the winter and planted out in April
larger plants are obtained, but there is no advance in quality over the very neat and sparkling
specimens raised from seed in spring. Sow in heat in March and April, and treat in the same
manner as Balsams until the time arrives for planting out. A rich sandy loam suits them, and
they like full exposure to sunshine.

==MIGNONETTE==

==Reseda odorata. Hardy annual==

Mignonette is so much prized that we must devote to it a paragraph, although there is little
to be said. In many gardens plants appear year after year from self-sown seeds, and it will
therefore be evident that Mignonette may be grown with the utmost simplicity. As a border plant
we have but to sow where it is to remain, at different times from March to midsummer; the one
important point is to make the bed very firm; in fact the soil should be trodden hard. It is
imperative to thin early and severely, for any one plant left alone will soon be a foot in
diameter, and in some circumstances cover a much larger area. Where bees are kept and space
can be afforded, seed should be sown in quantity, for Mignonette honey is of the finest quality
in flavour and fragrance. In pot culture it should be remembered that Mignonette does not transplant
well; therefore, having sown, say, a dozen seeds in each of a batch of 48-or 32-sized pots,
firmly filled with rich porous soil to which a little lime or mortar rubble has been added,
the young plants must be thinned down to five, or even three, in each pot, as soon as they
begin to grow freely. If small plants are wanted early, leave five in a pot; if larger specimens
are wanted later, leave only three, or even only one. For winter and spring, sow in August
and September and keep them as hardy as possible until it becomes necessary to put them under
glass for the winter. A further sowing for succession may be made in January or February. Several
strains of different tints are now at the command of cultivators of this favourite flower.

==MIMULUS==

==Monkey Flower. Hardy perennial==

This flower will grow in almost any soil, although a moist retentive loam and a shady situation
are best adapted for it. There are many varieties, differing in height, and all are worth growing,
both in pots and borders. If sown in February or March, and treated as greenhouse annuals,
they will flower in the first year. It is easy to raise a large number of plants in a cold
frame, and they make a rich display in borders and beds later in the year. Sowings in the open
ground during summer will supply plants for blooming in the following season, but the most
satisfactory course is to grow them as annuals, and at the end of the summer consign them to
the waste heap. The Mimulus is quite hardy, and the most ordinary care will suffice for it.
Water in plenty it must have, or the flowering period will be curtailed.

The well-known Musk is a Mimulus (=M. moschatus=), and is as easily grown from seed as other
varieties. It makes a valuable pot plant.

==MYOSOTIS==

==Forget-me-not. Perennials, hardy and half-hardy==

AT one time an impression prevailed that all the varieties of Myosotis were semi-aquatic, and
could only be grown satisfactorily in very damp shady places. And it is quite true that most
of them bloom for a longer period in a moist than in a dry soil. Still, they all flower freely,
and last a considerable time in any garden border.

The only half-hardy variety that need be referred to is Sutton's Pot Myosotis, which is a delightful
subject for flowering indoors at Christmas time; and as Forget-me-nots are everywhere welcome,
the practice of growing plants in pots is rapidly increasing. Seed should be sown in a cold
frame in June, and the seedlings can be potted on as required, taking care from the commencement
to avoid crowding as a precaution against mildew, to which the plants are very liable. The
strain referred to produces fine free-growing specimen plants, and a batch should always be
in reserve for cutting. For table decoration in winter Forget-me-nots are very telling.

All the hardy varieties may be sown from May to July for a brilliant display in the following
spring. The seed should be put into a prepared seed-bed under the shelter of a wall or hedge;
and in autumn the plants must be transferred to blooming quarters at the earliest opportunity.

Myosotis make an extremely effective groundwork for spring bulbs, for which purpose =M. dissitiflora=
is the most valuable.

==NASTURTIUM--=see= TROPÆOLUM==

==NEMESIA STRUMOSA SUTTONI==

==Half-hardy annual==

THIS beautiful South African annual is remarkable for its floriferous character, long duration
of bloom, and diversity of colour. Since we introduced it to this country in 1888 it has attained
great popularity as a pot plant for table decoration, and some of the most resplendent bedding
effects in public parks and gardens have been secured with this flower.

For an early show of bloom sow in pots or pans in March under glass, using a compost consisting
largely of good fibrous loam, with the addition of a small proportion of wood ashes. No more
heat than necessary should be used, and when the seedlings are large enough to handle prick
them off and gradually harden for planting out in May. Other sowings may be made in May and
June, and at this period of the year the seed germinates most quickly in boxes placed in a
cool shady spot out of doors. In early summer seed may also be sown in the open border, and
by thinning to a distance of six or eight inches sturdy plants will be secured, which will
remain in bloom until quite late in autumn.

For winter and early spring flowering in pots seed should be sown in August or September. There
must be no attempt at forcing, or attenuated worthless plants will result. A further sowing
may be made in January for blooming in the later spring months.

Like the seed of Verbena, Furze, and some other subjects, the germination of Nemesia under
artificial conditions is somewhat capricious, but no difficulty will be experienced with open-air
sowings.

==NICOTIANA==

==Tobacco. Half-hardy annual==

The delicious fragrance of the Tobacco plant, especially during the morning and evening, has
made it a great favourite in the greenhouse and conservatory, as well as in beds and borders
near frequented paths.

As a pot plant too, the Nicotiana is exceedingly useful, the large sweet-scented white, soft
pink, and rich red coloured flowers being very attractive. A group of plants placed in the
porch will, in the earlier and later hours of the day, as the door is opened, fill the house
with their delightful perfume. Seed may be sown from January to June, and a continuance of
bloom may thus be secured during nearly nine months of the year. Prick off the seedlings as
soon as they are fit to handle, for if sown too thickly they are liable to damp off rapidly.
Gradually harden off if required for planting out in May or June. In some places, more especially
in the South of England, Tobacco seed sown on an open sunny border early in May will produce
fine plants that will flower freely in August.

==PANSY==

==Viola tricolor. Hardy perennial==

The popularity of this flower has been greatly extended and the culture simplified since it
became the practice to raise the required number of plants every year from seed. For all ordinary
purposes the trouble of striking cuttings and keeping stocks in pots through the winter is
mere waste of labour and pit-room. The Pansy is a little fastidious, but not severely so. It
thrives in a cool climate, with partial shade in high summer, and in a rich, moist, sandy soil.
Notwithstanding all this, the Pansy will grow almost anywhere and anyhow; but as fine flowers
of this old favourite are highly prized, the plant should be treated with reasonable care to
do justice to its great merits.

A thick sowing is very liable to damp off: therefore sow thinly, either in pots or boxes, in
February and March. The thin sowing, moreover, renders it possible to take out the forward
plants without disturbing the remainder. In due course transplant into pans or boxes of good
soil, and place in some cool spot where the plants may gradually harden off. When they have
become stocky, remove to beds or borders, with balls of earth attached to the roots. Should
the surrounding soil become set by heavy rain or by watering, a slight stirring of the surface
will prove beneficial.

Seed sown in the open ground during the summer months will readily germinate, and the seedlings
need no attention beyond thinning to about six inches apart until they are ready for transferring
to their proper positions, where they will produce a mass of bloom in the following spring.

The Pansy puts forth its buds very early in the year. Whether they are particularly tasty,
or the scarcity of young vegetable growth gives them undue prominence, we know not, but certain
it is that sparrows show a marked partiality for them. And having once acquired a taste for
the buds, these impudent marauders will not leave them alone; they evidently regard Pansies
as the perfection of a winter salad. Their depredations can be prevented by an application
of water flavoured with quassia or paraffin oil, which must be repeated after rain.

==PELARGONIUM==

==Greenhouse perennial==

All kinds of Pelargonium may be raised from seed with the certainty of giving satisfaction
if the work be well done. An amateur, who contributed to the production of symmetrical flowers
in the Zonal section, found that under ordinary treatment Zonals began to bloom in one hundred
days from the date of sowing the seed, and some of those that flowered earliest proved to be
the finest. The cultivator will soon discover that one rule is important, and that is to sow
seed saved from really good strains. The simplest greenhouse culture suffices to raise Pelargoniums
from seed. Some growers sow in July or August; others in January or February. The summer sowing
necessitates careful winter keeping, and the flowers appear earlier than those from spring-sown
seed. But the spring sowing is the easier to manage, and is recommended to all beginners. Any
light, sandy loam will serve for these plants, and it is well to flower the principal bulk
of them in 48-and 32-sized pots, for if grown to a great size the date of flowering is deferred
without any corresponding advantage.

==PENTSTEMON==

==Hardy perennial==

Penstemons when grown as half-hardy annuals are a valuable addition to beds and borders, where
they produce a brilliant effect in summer. In borders it is not advisable to plant singly,
but they should be employed in groups of not less than one dozen. It is also important to sow
a strain consisting principally of scarlet and pink shades with white markings, as well as
white flowers; under fair conditions there will be a profusion of richly coloured blooms on
stately spikes about two feet high. Sow in heat during February or March and plant out in genial
weather. It is not necessary to keep them after flowering has finished, although seedling Pentstemons
on comparatively dry soil in favourable districts scarcely feel the winter. Seed may also be
sown in June, in the manner usual with hardy perennials, and the plants will bloom in advance
of those which are spring-sown.

==PETUNIA==

==Half-hardy perennial==

The Petunia affords another example of the immense strides accomplished in the art of seed-saving.
Formerly the colours were few, and the blossoms comparatively insignificant. Now the single
strains produce large flowers, beautiful in form, including self colours and others which are
striped, blotched, and veined, in almost endless diversity. Some are plain-edged, others elegantly
fringed. The double varieties also come so nearly true to their types that there is little
necessity for keeping a stock through the winter. Plants raised from seed of the large-flowered
strain embrace a wide range of resplendent colours, and the doubles are perfect rosettes, exquisitely
finished in form and marking.

The only way of obtaining double seedlings is to save seed from the finest single blooms fertilised
with pollen of good double flowers. Plants raised from such seed may be relied on to produce
a fair proportion of double flowers of great beauty, and those which come single will be of
the large-flowered type.

The dwarf varieties attain the height of five to eight inches only, and make admirable edging
and bedding plants. The taller strains range from one to two feet, and are handsome subjects
for border and shrubbery work. Both dwarf and tall sections are sufficiently brilliant and
free-flowering to produce a beautiful display as pot plants in the greenhouse and conservatory.

For indoor decoration, the third week in January will be early enough to commence operations.
Two parts of leaf-mould, one of loam, and one of sharp sand, make an excellent soil for them.
Fill the pots or seed-pans within half an inch of the rim, and press the soil firmly down.
Sow thinly on an even surface, and cover the seed with almost pure sand. Keep the pots or pans
uniformly moist with a fine rose and a light hand, and in a temperature of about 60°. Greater
heat will render the seedlings weak and straggling. From this condition it will take some skill
and much time to redeem them; indeed, they may not produce a good display of flowers until
the season is well-nigh over. Just as the seed is germinating is a critical time for Petunias,
and a little extra watchfulness then will be fully repaid.

In February the sun has not sufficient power to do mischief, so that shading is generally unnecessary.
An even temperature and freedom from draughts should insure seedlings strong enough to prick
off by the end of that month. Put the plants into seed-pans about an inch apart, so that the
first leaves just touch the soil, still using a light compost.

In April they should be ready for transferring to small 60-pots. Subsequently they must be
potted on as growth demands, until they reach the 48-or even the 32-size. After re-potting
place the plants in a sheltered part of the house or frame, where shade can, if necessary,
be given until the roots are established. Frequent sprinklings of water, and a temperature
of 60° or 65°, will give them a vigorous start. The lights ought to be put down in good time
in the evening, but this must be done with judgment, or the plants will lose their healthy
colour and assume a yellowish tinge. Insufficient drainage has a precisely similar effect.
In about ten days air may be given more freely, and then no suitable opportunity of exposure
should be lost.

In raising Petunias for bedding, the same conditions are applicable; but as it is useless to
put them into the open ground until the weather is warm and settled, the sowing need not be
made until the end of February or the beginning of March. And for bedding there is no occasion
to put the plants into larger pots than the 60-size. It will be necessary to give these seedlings
shade in their young state, after they have been pricked off or potted.

The beds or borders intended for Petunias will be better without recent manure, for this tends
to the excessive production of foliage and defers the flowering until late in the season. Do
not be tempted by the first sunny day to put them out, but wait for settled weather. A cutting
east wind, such as we sometimes have in May, will ruin them irretrievably. Each plant of the
tall class will occupy a space of two feet, and the dwarfs may be one foot apart.

In potting Petunias, those which are weakly among the singles will probably produce the most
valued colours, and from seed sown for doubles it may be accepted as a rule that from the feebler
seedlings the finest rosette-shaped flowers may be expected.

All Petunias are impatient of being pot-bound, and this applies especially to the double varieties.
They will, if treated generously, do ample justice to the 8-or even the 10-inch size. The growth
should not be hurried at any stage, and if the foliage has a dark, healthy, green colour, free
from blight, there will be magnificent flowers four or five inches across. The final shift
should be into a sound compost, consisting, if possible, of good loam and leaf-mould in equal
parts, with sufficient sand added to insure drainage. About a fortnight later commence giving
weak manure water once a week instead of the ordinary watering, and as the buds appear it may
be increased in strength, and be administered twice a week until the flowers expand.

Petunias are accommodating in their growth, and may be trained into various forms. The pyramid
and fan-shape are most common, and the least objectionable. We confess, however, to a feeling
of antipathy to fanciful shapes in plants, no matter what they may be. It is a necessity of
our artificial conditions of culture that many of them should be trained and tied to produce
shapely specimens, but the more nearly the gardener's art approaches Nature, the greater pleasure
we derive from his labours.

==PHLOX DRUMMONDII==

==Half-hardy annual==

Those who are acquainted with the older forms of this annual might fail to recognise a friend
under its new and improved appearance. There are now several beautiful types, each possessing
characteristics of its own, and all producing flowers that are perfect in form and brilliant
in colour. The large-flowered section produces splendid bedding plants, but the dwarf compact
varieties are also highly prized for effective massing and general usefulness. The latter attain
a height seldom exceeding six inches, and are therefore eminently suitable for edgings and
borders, as well as for bedding. They bloom profusely for a long period, not only in the open
ground, but also as pot plants in the greenhouse or conservatory, where they are conspicuous
for the richness of their display.

For early flowering sow seed of all the varieties in February or March in well-drained pans
or shallow boxes. Any good sifted soil, made firm, will suit them, and every seed should be
separately pressed in, allowing about an inch between each; then cover with fine soil. This
will generally give sufficient space between the plants to save pricking off; but if the growth
becomes so strong as to render a transfer necessary, lift every alternate plant, fill the vacant
spots with soil, and those left will have room to develop. Pot the plants that are taken out,
give them a start in a frame, and shade from direct sunshine. Phloxes should not be coddled;
the best results are always obtained from sturdy plants which have been hardened as far as
possible by free access of air from their earliest stage of growth. This does not imply that
they are to be rudely transferred from protection to the open air. The change can easily be
managed gradually until some genial evening makes it perfectly safe to expose them fully. A
space of about two feet each way is required for each plant of the large-flowered class, but
a more modest allowance of nine or twelve inches will suffice for the dwarf varieties. Before
they are put out the plants must be free from aphis; if not, fumigation should be resorted
to once or twice until there is a clearance of the pest. Seed of the annual Phlox may also
be sown in the open ground during the latter part of May, and the plants will flower abundantly
from mid-August until frost destroys them.

The employment of Phlox as pot plants has already been alluded to, but special mention must
be made of Purity, which is by far the most valuable of all the varieties for blooming indoors.
The pure white flowers, which are sweetly scented, may be produced at almost any period of
the year. They are, perhaps, more highly appreciated at Easter than at any other time, and
to insure a display at that season seed should be sown in September or October. The plants
will do well if grown on in a cold frame, the final shift being into pots of the 48-size. When
grown under glass, Phlox should be given treatment as nearly hardy as possible, all that is
necessary in regulating temperature being the exclusion of frost from the greenhouse or frame.

==PHLOX, PERENNIAL==

==Hardy perennial==

The seed of perennial Phlox is very slow and erratic in germinating, and from a sowing made
in September the seedlings may not appear until the following spring. Seed may also be sown
in the first week of March in shallow boxes, and put into moderate heat. In due time prick
out into boxes filled with light rich soil, and having hardened them in the usual way, plant
out a foot apart in a good bed, and help, if needful, with an occasional watering.

==PICOTEE==

==Dianthus Caryophyllus fl. pi. Hardy perennial==

Seedling Picotees are extremely robust and free-flowering, and seed saved from the best types
will produce handsome specimens. The instructions for growing Carnation--sowing in pans from
April to August and transplanting when large enough--are equally applicable to the Picotee.

==PINK==

==Dianthus plumarius. Hardy perennial==

This old English flower is valued in every garden. Both the double and single varieties are
easily raised from seed and the plants bloom with the greatest freedom. Seed may be sown any
time from April to August. Treat the seedlings in the manner advised for Carnations, and in
due course transfer to open quarters. The foliage maintains its colour during the severest
winter, and is therefore worth consideration for furnishing the border, to say nothing of the
abundant display of perfumed flowers which the plants afford in early summer.

==POLYANTHUS==

==Primula (veris) elatior. Hardy perennial==

A sowing in February or March in pans will produce strong specimens for flowering in the following
year. Or seed may be sown from May to July on a shady border. Prick off the seedlings when
large enough to handle. The plants should never flag for want of water, and green fly must
be kept down by syringing. Some good solution will be necessary against red spider if through
starvation in a dry situation it has been permitted to gain a footing. All the varieties can
be grown in a bed with a cool shaded aspect. They do not require a rich soil; a strong and
fibrous loam with a little leaf-mould is sufficient. On passing out of flower the plants will
split up into several heads, when they may be separated and potted singly. Exquisite colour
effects can be created by planting Polyanthus in association with beds of Tulips for flowering
in April.

==POPPY==

==Papaver. Hardy annual and hardy perennial==

The recent developments of this flower have brought it into great and deserved popularity,
and it may be safely affirmed that few other subjects in our gardens afford a more imposing
display of brilliant colouring during the blooming period. The delicate beauty of the Shirley
Poppies is alone sufficient to create a reputation for the entire class, and the huge flowers
of the double varieties make a gorgeous show. All the varieties are eminently adapted for enlivening
shrubbery borders and the sides of carriage-drives.

Seeds of Annual Poppies should be sown where the plants are intended to flower, because it
is difficult to transplant with any measure of success. During March or April sow in lines
or groups, =and thin to about a foot apart=. Large clumps of some of the bolder colours should
be sown in spots that are visible from a distance, and they will present glowing masses of flowers.

By sowing seeds of Perennial Poppies in pans in March, and putting out the seedlings when large
enough, the plants will flower the same year. The more general practice, however, is to sow
very thinly on a well-prepared border any time from May to August. Keep the seedlings free
from weeds, and thin out if necessary. The plants may be transferred to permanent quarters
early in autumn or in the spring months.

==PORTULACA==

==Purslane. Half-hardy annual==

This is a splendid subject when the weather favours it. In a dry hot season, and on a sandy
soil, Portulacas can be grown as easily as Cress. Sowings are sometimes made early in the year
in greenhouses or frames; but as a rule it is a vain attempt. Wait until May or June, when
the weather appears settled; then put the seed into the open border, and the lighter the soil,
and the hotter the season, the more brilliant will be the display of flowers. Sow on raised
beds, in rows six or nine inches apart, and cover the seed with sand or fine earth. If the
plants appear to be injuriously close they must be thinned. Should a period of rain ensue,
the raised beds have a distinct advantage over a flat surface, and rows afford opportunity
for stirring the soil and keeping down weeds.

==PRIMROSE==

==Primula vulgaris. Hardy perennial==

The mere name of this flower is sufficient to recall visions of spring and perhaps of happy
visits to its haunts in days gone by. But many ardent lovers of the Primrose may not know that
the strains which are now in favour embrace a wide range of colour, from pure white to deep
crimson or maroon, various shades of yellow and orange, and rich blue. In fact, in a batch
of seedlings nearly every plant may differ from its companions. They all agree, however, in
possessing the delicate perfume which is characteristic of the hardy woodland favourite. Fancy
Primroses are prized as pot and border flowers, and they fully reward florists for all the
care which has been devoted to their improvement. They will bloom satisfactorily in any shady
spot; but to grow them to perfection requires a stiff moist loam, on the north side of some
hedge or shrubbery, where glimpses of sunshine occasionally play upon them. Here large flowers,
intense in colour, will be abundantly produced far into the spring.

The finest plants are generally obtained from a February or March sowing made in pans or boxes.
Seed may also be sown from May to July in carefully prepared ground in the open. If inclined
to take some pains in raising the plants--and they are certainly worth it--make the summer
sowings in seed-pans in ordinary potting soil; sprinkle a little sand over the seed, and as
a finish press firmly down. Sheets of glass laid over the pans and turned daily will prevent
rapid evaporation and help to keep the soil uniformly moist. The seedlings either may be potted
once, and then be planted out, or, if strong enough, they may be transferred straight to flowering
positions. Should this mode of procedure be considered too troublesome, prepare a shady patch
of ground by deep digging; make it firm and level, and on this sow in shallow drills, covering
the seed very lightly. A dressing of soot over the surface, and a cordon of ashes round it,
will keep off slugs. Thin if necessary, and when the plants are strong enough, remove to their
proper quarters. In February the buds will begin to show, and those intended for pots should
be allowed to reveal their colours before they are taken up, so that a variety may be obtained.
From a retentive soil each plant with its surrounding earth may be taken out almost exactly
of the size required, and it should be rather smaller than the pot which has to accommodate
it. A light soil must be watered the day before the operation, or the roots will be injuriously
exposed. When potted, place the plants in a shaded cold frame or greenhouse, allowing them
plenty of space, and withhold water until it is absolutely necessary. At first they should
be kept close, but as the roots become established gradually give air more and more freely.
Cool, slow treatment is all that is required. Any attempt to hurry the growth will only weaken
the plants and ruin the colour of the flowers. Just before the buds open, one or two applications
of manure water will be beneficial. When the display in pots is over, if the plants are put
out in a shady border, they may flower again late in the season.

==PRIMULA SINENSIS==

==Chinese Primrose. Greenhouse annual==

The history of the Chinese Primula since it first reached this country has an almost romantic
interest. As originally received the flower was, and now is, insignificant in size and miserably
poor in colour. But florists at once perceived in it immense possibilities. The result of their
labours, extending over many years, may be seen in the magnificent Single, Double, and Star
Primulas which now adorn conservatories, greenhouses, and homes. From so small a beginning
the range of colours is amazing; there are snowy-white flowers in several beautiful forms,
a pure Cambridge blue, rich violet-blue, many shades of rose, pink, scarlet, and gorgeous crimson.
Almost equally striking is the improvement in the foliage, especially the introduction of the
fern-leaf, with its diverse shades of green and richly toned under-surface.

To enjoy the bloom for a long period make successive sowings in May and June. A further sowing
may be made in July if necessary. Use new pots which have been soaked in water; but if these
are not at hand, scrub some old pots clean, for Primulas are fastidious from the outset, and
it is by apparent trifles that some growers produce plants so immensely superior to others
treated with less care. Provide free drainage, and place a little dry moss over the crocks.
Any fairly good rich soil will be suitable, but a mixture of equal parts of sound fibrous loam
and leaf-mould, with a small addition of silver sand, is best. Press this compost firmly into
the pots to within half an inch of the top. Water before sowing, and sprinkle sufficient sand
over the surface to cover the soil. On this sand sow evenly and thinly, for it is well known
that the finest new Primula seed comes up irregularly, and a thin sowing admits of the removal
of plants that may be ready, without disturbing the remainder. Cover the seed with just enough
fine soil to hide the sand, and gently press the surface. Place the pots in a sheltered part
of the greenhouse, protected from draughts and direct sunlight; a small glazed frame will be
useful for this purpose. While the seed is germinating the temperature should not rise above
70°, or fall below 50°. Immediately the plants are large enough, prick off round the rim of
small pots, and if convenient place them in a propagating box. Water with care, and shade if
necessary. When established give air, which should be daily increased until the plants will
bear placing on the greenhouse stage. Transfer singly to thumb pots, and subsequently shift
into larger sizes as may be requisite, but never do this until the pots are filled with roots,
and always put the plants in firmly up to the collar. During July, August, and up to the middle
of September expose freely to the air in any convenient position where shelter can be given
in unfavourable weather.

Where there is no greenhouse, but only a hot-bed, it is still possible to grow good Primulas,
with care and patience. The instructions given for treatment in the greenhouse may easily be
adapted to the pit or frame, only there must be a little more watchfulness in affording shade
on sunny days to prevent overheating.

Endeavour to give the plants a robust constitution from the first, for weak, rickety things
cannot produce a satisfactory bloom. Primulas need a long period of growth before they flower;
hence they should never be subjected to a forcing temperature. Sufficient heat must be provided
to raise the plants, but afterwards the aim should be to render Primulas as nearly hardy as
possible before cold weather sets in. There must, however, be ample protection against frost,
damp, and cutting winds.

==Primula stellata== (=Star Primula=).--This elegant strain of Primula, introduced by us in
1895, has attained a high position in popular favour. Although it is not intended to supersede
or compete with the splendid strains of =P. sinensis=, it is a most valuable addition to the
conservatory, and will be found indispensable for general decorative work. The plants are unusually
floriferous and continue in bloom for a long time. When cut, the sprays travel well and remain
fresh in water many days. For table adornment Star Primulas are unsurpassed by any other greenhouse
flower at their own period of the year. The culture is precisely the same as for =P. sinensis=.

==Half-hardy Primula==.--This section, which embraces a number of very charming species, includes
the well-known =P. obconica grandiflora,= which is almost perpetual-blooming under glass. Seed
of this Primula may be sown from February to July, from the earliest of which the plants will
flower in autumn and continue to bloom throughout the winter. In the early stages the seedlings
may be managed as already directed for =P. sinensis=, bearing in mind that excessive watering
should be avoided. Cool greenhouse treatment will suit the plants well.

Another half-hardy variety which has recently attained wide popularity is =P. malacoides=.
The dainty flowers are produced tier upon tier to a height of about two feet and are very sweetly
perfumed. For a winter display sow in February, and successional sowings may be made until
July. =P. malacoides= especially resents a forcing temperature. Therefore the culture should
be as nearly hardy as possible, and even in the seedling stage the plants must have free access
of air on all suitable occasions, or they are very liable to damp off.

==Hardy Primula.==--A number of very elegant garden Primulas are worthy of attention. The majority
answer well when grown in borders, but they are especially at home in rock or Alpine gardens.
The family is now so large and so variable in time of blooming that it is possible to have
the different species in flower during almost every month of the year. As a rule, it is advisable
to raise the seedlings in pots or pans placed in a frame or greenhouse, and to transfer them
to the open ground when thoroughly hardened off.

==RANUNCULUS==

==Half-hardy perennial==

The Ranunculus can be grown either from seed or from roots. The seed is thinly sown from January
to March, in boxes four to six inches deep, filled with good soil. A cool greenhouse or frame
is the proper place for the boxes until the spring is somewhat advanced. A little extra care
is requisite to insure free growth and a hardy constitution, and the roots should not be turned
out of the boxes until they have ceased growing and are quite ripe; then they may be stored
for planting in November or February. For particulars on the treatment of roots, see page 348.

==RICINUS==

==Castor-oil Plant. Half-hardy annual==

Although this plant flowers freely, it is grown in the sub-tropical garden principally for
its noble ornamental foliage, and also in the shrubbery border, either alone or in conjunction
with other fine subjects, such as Canna, Solanum, Nicotiana, and Wigandia. Plants of the dwarfer
varieties may also be used with very decorative effect in conservatories and greenhouses during
the summer and autumn months.

To have plants ready for making a show in early summer they must be raised as half-hardy annuals
in February or March. From the commencement a rich soil and abundant supplies of water are
necessary for the production of stately specimens. The seed is large, and may be put singly
into pots, or three or four in each, and the latter is the usual practice. A temperature of
about 60° will bring them up. If several plants are grown in a pot, they must be separated
while quite young, and put into small pots filled with very rich soil. It is almost impossible
to have the compost too rich, so long as drainage is quite safe. When the pot is full of roots,
shift to a larger size, and commence the process of hardening, in readiness for planting out
in June. This is worth some care, for if the plant receives a check when put out, it may take
a long time to recover, and then part of the brief growing season will be wasted. Many gardeners
never raise Ricinus in heat, but trust entirely to a sowing in the open on the first day of
May. The seeds are put in three inches deep, in groups of three or four, and finally the plants
are thinned to one at each station.

Prepare the soil in advance by deep digging and the incorporation of an abundant supply of
manure. The most effectual way of doing it is to take out the earth to a depth of eighteen
inches or two feet, and fill in with decayed manure and loam, chiefly the former. Upon this
put out the plant, or sow seed as may be determined. If this is too great a tax on resources,
or the near presence of shrubs renders the proceeding impossible, drive a bar into the soil,
which, if light, can be readily worked into a fair-sized hole. Fill this with rich stuff nearly
to the top, and over it either put the plant or sow seed. A heavy top-dressing round each stem
is also desirable, and the application of copious supplies of water will carry the nourishment
down to the roots. Sub-tropical plants are only a source of disappointment under niggardly
treatment, but they amply repay all the care and generosity which a liberal hand may lavish
upon them. The plants will need the support of stakes to save them from injury in a high wind.

==SAINTPAULIA==

==Greenhouse perennial==

A very remarkable perennial, only four inches high, obtained from eastern tropical Africa.
The plant has fleshy leaves, and the flowers, which are produced in clusters, somewhat resemble
the Violet, but are much larger. Saintpaulia makes a beautiful table ornament, and a row of
pot plants in full bloom forms a charming margin in conservatories, either for a stage or on
the ground. The seedlings flower freely in about six months from date of sowing, and continue
in bloom through the winter. Sowings may be made from January to March, in well-drained pots
placed in a temperature of 60° to 65°. On no account should the soil be allowed to become dry.
Subsequently the plants may be treated as recommended for Gloxinias.

==SALPIGLOSSIS==

==Half-hardy annual==

A highly ornamental half-hardy annual. The finest strains have large, open flowers, exhibiting
extraordinary combinations of colours which range from the palest sulphur-white to orange,
scarlet, and purple-violet, all being more or less pencilled and veined with some strong contrasting
colour.

If an early display is wanted, a start should be made at the end of February or beginning of
March, by sowing on a moderate hot-bed. In May the plants will be ready for flowering quarters.
Or sow in April in the open ground where the plants are to remain, taking care to thin severely,
and the thinnings will be useful for dibbling in out-of-the-way comers, where they will furnish
acceptable material for table decoration, for which purpose this striking flower is well adapted.

Salpiglossis make charming pot plants for the greenhouse and conservatory. For this purpose
seed should be sown in August or September, and under cool-house treatment the plants will
bloom profusely in the following spring.

==SALVIA==

==Hardy annual and half-hardy perennial==

From a genus including 450 species a small number of Salvias have won deserved popularity for
beds and borders. In summer and early autumn the long spikes of brilliant flowers produced
by Fireball and Scarlet Queen make an extremely attractive display, and =S. patens= is one
of the most superb pure blue flowers seen in gardens. As a bedding plant =S. argentea= is extensively
grown for its silvery-white foliage, which completely covers the ground. These and other perennial
varieties may be sown in pans during February and March for transfer to the open in May, and
the plants need the usual treatment of half-hardy perennials.

A favourite annual variety is Blue Beard, growing eighteen inches high and presenting long
spikes of bright purple bracts. The annual Salvias should also be sown in pans in February
or March and transplanted in May; or seed may be sown in the open border during April.

==SCHIZANTHUS==

==The Butterfly Flower. Half-hardy annual==

At many leading horticultural displays in recent years masses of Schizanthus of extraordinary
beauty have been exhibited with striking success. In conservatories, greenhouses, and on dinner-tables
the plants form conspicuous ornaments and they should be freely grown for general decorative
purposes. On special occasions the pots may be plunged to create a brilliant show of bloom
as temporary beds and they are also extremely attractive in hanging-baskets.

The usual time for sowing seed to insure fine specimens is the end of August or early in September.
Either well-drained pots or shallow boxes, filled with a good potting compost, will answer
for raising the seedlings. Sow thinly, on a smooth surface, and cover the seeds with finely
sifted soil. When the young plants appear place the pots or boxes near the glass where they
can have abundance of light and air, so that from the start the plants may be short and healthy.
Seedlings that are thin and drawn are never worth the space they occupy. Immediately they are
large enough to handle, transfer to shallow boxes, allowing a space of three inches to each
plant. The compost to consist of sound loam and leaf-soil in equal proportions, with the addition
of sufficient coarse sand to render the mixture porous. For two or three days keep the boxes
in a frame, which must remain closed and be shaded from sunshine until the seedlings are established,
but remove the shading whenever possible; then give air freely, and on attaining a height of
three inches the first stopping may be done. A fortnight later the plants will be ready for
pots of the 60-size. Treat them as nearly hardy as weather may permit. Stop the shoots a second
time when about six inches high, with the object of forming bushy plants capable of yielding
a bountiful bloom. When the 60-pots are filled with roots transfer to the 48-size, and in due
time the final shift should be into pots of the 24-size. Larger pots may, of course, be employed
for very fine specimens. The compost for this final shift ought to consist of two parts of
rich loam, one part of leaf-soil, and one part of thoroughly decayed manure; the addition of
sharp sand will be necessary. The stems to be tied out to stakes in good time to prevent injury.
Just before the flowering period and while the plants are actually in bloom, weak liquid manure,
instead of water, once or twice a week will be beneficial. A high temperature is not required,
even in the winter months, to maintain Schizanthus in healthy condition. From 35° to 40° is
all the heat they need; in fact, it is only requisite to keep frost at bay, and this near approach
to hardy treatment will result in fine robust plants.

The Schizanthus may also be sown during March and April in pans placed in gentle heat, the
seedlings being potted on for flowering in the conservatory or they may be put out in the open
border. Towards the end of April or in May seed may be sown out of doors.

One point in the successful culture of Schizanthus should never be forgotten. The roots must
not be allowed to become pot-bound. Where this is permitted at any stage of growth it is fatal
to the development of a handsome show of bloom.

==SENECIO ELEGANS==

==Jacobea. Hardy annual==

Among the double varieties, the crimson, purple, rose and white Senecios take the lead for
beauty and usefulness. They are remarkably accommodating plants, adapted for beds or the greenhouse.
Sow early in pans or boxes, give the seedlings liberal treatment, and when bedded out the plants
will produce myriads of bright flowers, until frost puts a stop to them. Any good soil which
does not become pasty will suit, and full exposure to sunshine is essential to the production
of a rich display of colour. In March or April seed may safely be sown in the open ground.

The Tall Single Bright Rose Jacobea is invaluable as a cut flower for table decoration under
artificial light. It rivals the Star Cineraria in form and, being a hardy annual, it may be
grown with the utmost ease.

==SILENE==

==Catchfly. Hardy annual==

Not one of the hardy annuals has established a better claim to be sown in autumn than the Silenes.
Alone, they make a very attractive display, and they can be used with especial effect in beds
planted with Daffodils, Hyacinths, and Tulips. While the Daffodils are in full beauty the Silenes
clothe the ground with a carpet of green, and after the foliage of the bulbs has been cut off
or pinned down the Silenes furnish a fresh display of floral beauty in advance of the summer
bedders.

Silenes do not thrive on heavy damp soils, but the difficulty can be surmounted by keeping
the plants in pans or boxes under a cold frame until growing weather sets in. The plants do
very well in loam, and best of all in a dry sandy soil. The spring sowing should be made in
March or April; the autumn sowing in August or early in September.

==SOLANUM==

==Annual and perennial; half-hardy==

Solanums are of importance, some as greenhouse plants, and others as sub-tropical bedders.
They are somewhat tender in constitution, and must have good cultivation in a light rich soil.
A sharp look-out for red spider is necessary, for this pest is very partial to Solanums. March
is early enough to sow the seed, but for ordinary purposes April is to be preferred. By the
middle of June the plants should be strong enough to put out, and with genial weather will
make rapid progress. Those grown for their berries may be sown from February onwards, as it
is important to secure bushy plants before they begin to flower, and an early start insures
an early ripening of the bright, handsome fruit.

==STATICE==

==Sea Lavender. Hardy and half-hardy annuals and hardy perennial==

It would be difficult to decide whether the Sea Lavenders are more highly valued as border
flowers or as cut material for use indoors. Certain it is that the light and graceful sprays
of delicately coloured flowers are indispensable for house decoration, either when freshly
cut or when dried for mixing with Helichrysums and other everlastings in winter. Yet Statice
are very attractive when growing in the border, the varieties of branching habit giving a long-continued
display of beautiful flowers.

The half-hardy varieties should be sown from January to March in pans placed on bottom heat.
When large enough prick off the seedlings into boxes of good light soil, and gradually harden
off in readiness for planting out in May. The hardy annual kinds also answer best when started
in pans during March or April and transferred to the open in due course. Seed of the hardy
perennial varieties should be sown in a nice light compost any time from April to July. Put
out the plants into flowering positions when they have attained a suitable size.

When grown on in pots, the half-hardy sorts make exceedingly pretty subjects for house or conservatory
decoration.

==STOCK==

==Mathiola. Annual and biennial half-hardy==

From the botanical standpoint Stocks comprise two main classes--the Annual and the Biennial.
So accommodating as to treatment is this extensive family, however, that by selecting suitable
sorts and sowing at appropriate periods, it is not difficult to obtain a succession of these
delightful flowers the year through. With this object in view, our notes are divided into four
sections covering the cycle of the seasons, as follows: Summer-flowering, or Ten-week; Intermediate
varieties, for autumn-flowering; Winter-flowering; and Spring-flowering.

==Summer-flowering, or Ten-week Stocks==.--These annual varieties include a wonderful range
of colours, as well as considerable diversity in the habit of growth. For their brightness,
durability, and fragrance they are deservedly popular. It is usual to sow the seed under glass
from the middle to the end of March. Pans or shallow boxes, filled with sweet sandy soil, make
the best of seed-beds, and it may be well to say at once that no plants pay better for care
and attention than the subjects now under consideration. Sow thinly, that the plants may have
room to become stout while yet in the seed-bed, and from the very outset endeavour to impart
a hardy constitution by giving air freely whenever the weather is suitable. This does not mean
that they are to be subjected to some cutting blast that will cripple the plants beyond redemption,
but that no opportunity should be lost of partial or entire exposure whenever the atmosphere
is sufficiently genial to benefit them. If a cold frame on a spent hot-bed can be spared, it
may be utilised by pricking off the seedlings into it, or the pans and boxes may simply be
placed under its protection. The nearer the seedlings can be kept to the glass, the less will
be the disposition to become leggy. In transplanting to the open ground, it is worth some trouble
to induce each plant to carry a nice ball of soil attached to its roots.

On light, friable land, Ten-week Stocks can be successfully grown from sowings made in the
open about the end of April. The character of the season must be some guide to the time chosen,
and the sowing in this case should be rather thicker than in the seed-pans. Should the seed
germinate well, severe thinning will have to be practised as growth demands. This method of
culture entirely prevents loss by mildew, which so often proves fatal to young transplanted
seedlings. It is difficult to make the soil too good for them, and there is no comparison between
Stocks grown on a poor border and those grown in luxuriance. Some growers make a little trench
for each row of seed, and this affords a certain degree of protection from cutting winds, and
also forms a channel for water when there is a necessity for administering it. In a showery
season, the plants will appear in about twelve days, but in dry weather it will be longer,
and one or more gentle morning waterings may be necessary to bring them up. The distance between
the rows must be determined by the variety. Nine inches is sufficient for the dwarf sorts;
twelve or fifteen inches will not be too much for medium and tall kinds.

Slugs may be kept off by a dusting of soot or wood-ashes, and some precaution must also be
adopted to prevent birds from disturbing the seed-bed.

Here it may be well to mention a fact which is not always remembered, although the knowledge
of it is generally assumed. Seed can only be saved from single flowers, but those who have
made a study of the business find little difficulty in selecting plants, and treating them
in such a manner that seed obtained from them will produce a large percentage of double blossoms
in the following generation. In keeping the various colours true there is one very awkward
fact. Certain sorts invariably produce a difference in colour between the double and single
flowers.

==Intermediate Stocks== form a valuable succession to the Summer-flowering, or Ten-week varieties.
From seed sown in gentle heat in February or March, the plants usually commence flowering when
the earlier varieties are beginning to fade, and will continue to bloom until winter sets in.
It is also easy to grow the Intermediate section in pots for spring decoration, if the protection
of a house or pit can be given during the winter to preserve them from frost. A simple plan
is to sow in August or early in September five or six seeds in 48-sized pots. Thin to three
plants in each, and of course a larger pot with more plants can be used when desirable. Give
air whenever possible, and water regularly. There is no need for artificial heat; indeed, it
is not well to hurry the plants in any way. A good top-dressing of rich soil is advisable before
flowering, and as the buds appear, manure water, weak at first, but gradually increased in
strength, may be given once a week until in full bloom.

==Winter-flowering Stocks==.--During the winter months Stocks afford an immense amount of pleasure.
They are particularly welcome at Christmas, and to insure flowering plants at that season of
the year suitable varieties, such as Christmas Pink or Beauty of Nice, should be selected,
and a start made in June. As soon as the first leaf is attained, prick off three seedlings
in a three-inch pot; place in a cool frame under a north wall, keeping the light off all day
until they are ready for another shift into six-inch pots. Use three parts of good yellow loam
and one part of leaf-soil--no sand. Pot firmly and restore to the frame until the plants start
growing, when they may be removed to the greenhouse. Manure water, not too strong, once a week
is beneficial, and pure water should be given sparingly. Keep near the glass and ventilate
freely. Further sowings made in July and August will extend the supply of flowers.

==Spring-flowering Stocks==, which include the popular Brompton strain, come into flower in
spring and early summer. Although in some seasons it may answer to sow where the plants are
required to bloom, the practice is too precarious to be risked generally. A safer method is
to sow in seed-pans in June or July. Place these under shelter until the plants are an inch
high, then stand them in the open for a week before transplanting. Have ready a piece of freshly-dug
soil, and on a dull day put them out at eight to twelve inches apart. If the growth is too
rapid during September, it may be advisable to lift them and plant again, for the winter must
not find them soft and succulent. There should be hard stems and sturdy growth to carry them
through the cold weather. In districts that are specially unfavourable it may be necessary
to pot each plant singly in the 60-size, and plunge these in ashes in a cold frame, or under
the shelter of a south wall, until severe weather is past, and they can then be turned out
into the borders.

==STREPTOCARPUS==

==Cape Primrose. Tender perennial==

The hybrids are a very striking race, invaluable for greenhouse and conservatory decoration,
producing a continuous succession of large trumpet-shaped flowers, embracing colours ranging
from pure white, through lavender, purple, violet, rose, and red, to rich rosy-purple. Sow
very thinly from January to March in well-drained pots, and a dusting of fine soil will sufficiently
cover the seed. Place the pots in a temperature of 60° to 65°, and take care that the soil
is not allowed to become dry. Prick off the seedlings when large enough to handle, keeping
them in the temperature named until the final potting. When established they thrive with ordinary
attention in a greenhouse, and they winter well in a temperature ranging between 40° and 50°.
Seed sown in January and February will produce plants which will come into bloom during the
following June and July.

==Streptocarpus Wendlandii== is a singularly interesting variety. Only one immense leaf is
produced, which frequently attains a width of two feet, with a proportionate length. This leaf
is reflexed, completely hiding the pot on one side, and from its midrib scapes of elegant violet-blue
flowers with white throat are thrown up to a height of eighteen inches. The seeds should be
sown in a warm greenhouse early in the year. The plants will begin to flower in the winter
and continue in bloom for about six months. The temperature which is suitable for Gloxinias
will answer for this plant also.

==SUNFLOWER==

==Helianthus annuus. Hardy annual==

The utility of the Sunflower has been alluded to in a former page. Here we have only to regard
the plant in its ornamental character, as an occupant of the shrubbery or flower border.

In addition to the common species, there are several strains which are adapted for special
purposes. The dwarf varieties grow about three to four feet high, and produce fine heads of
bloom. The 'giant' attains the enormous height of eight or ten feet in a favourable season,
and the flowers are of immense size. The double strain generally reaches six feet in height,
and is valuable for its fine show of colour and enduring quality. There is no difficulty, therefore,
in making a selection to suit the requirements of any border. The Sunflower can also be employed
in one or more rows to make a boundary or to hide an unsightly fence, and some growers use
it as a screen for flowers which will not bear full sunshine.

Seed may be sown very early in the season, and the plants can be brought forward in the manner
usual with half-hardy annuals, but there is no necessity for this mode of growing them. Sow
in April or May where the plants are to flower, on soil which has been abundantly manured to
a depth of eighteen inches, and they will bloom in good time. To maintain the rapid growth,
water must not be stinted in dry weather.

==SWEET PEA==

==Lathyrus odoratus. Hardy climbing annual==

The history of the Sweet Pea can be traced back for more than two hundred years; and it is
almost as fascinating as an exhibition of the flowers. Recent improvements in this highly popular
subject include an amazing diversity of colours, a marked increase in the number of flowers
on each stem, and an extraordinary enlargement in their size. A modern list may run into hundreds,
but those who grow every known variety find that there are many close resemblances, arising
no doubt from simultaneous introductions by hybridists who have experimented on similar lines.
Enthusiastic growers of Sweet Peas are no longer content with a limited number of named varieties,
for it is obvious that in competitions where fifty or a hundred bunches have to be staged for
certain prizes, a large and representative collection must be grown. For general garden decoration,
however, and to provide sprays for the adornment of homes, the Giant-flowered class, offered
under colours only, will continue to be extremely popular.

The change in character and the increased usefulness of Sweet Peas have necessitated a revolution
in the methods of culture. The freer growth and more robust habit demand greater space than
was formerly allowed. Instead of crowded rows of attenuated plants, producing a meagre return
of small flowers, poor in colour, it is now the practice to prepare the ground by deep trenching
and liberal manuring, and to give every plant ample space for full development both in rows
and in clumps. In the ensuing paragraphs we outline the cultural routine which should be followed
as nearly as possible by those who desire to insure a long-continued supply of the very finest
flowers. But where circumstances do not permit of these recommendations being adopted in full,
the details may be modified according to the materials at command and the requirements of the
cultivator.

It is usual to commence the preparation of the ground in autumn. Trenching is of paramount
importance, for the roots of the Sweet Pea require a considerable depth of good soil in which
to ramify for the support of robust healthy plants capable of producing handsome flowers over
a long season. Where the surface soil is shallow, care must be exercised to avoid bringing
uncultivated subsoil to the top, and it is well worth incurring a little extra trouble to provide
a sufficient depth of fertile material for full root development. Therefore dig out a wide
trench and place the good top soil on one side. Then remove and discard the subsoil to a depth
of twelve inches and, after breaking up the bottom of the trench with a fork or pickaxe, replace
with an equal quantity of decayed manure, leaves, old potting soil or any other suitable stuff
that may be on hand. Finally return the top soil to its original position.

The use of manure needs discrimination, and in fixing the quantity, as well as in selecting
the most suitable kinds, due consideration must be given to the character of the soil. For
light land, four barrow-loads of well-rotted farmyard manure per square pole will make an excellent
dressing, but a rather smaller amount will suffice for heavy ground. In place of farmyard manure
an unlimited quantity of leaf-soil, if obtainable, may be used, and it is also a good plan
to dig in any available green refuse. Garden ground which for some years previously has been
kept in a state of high cultivation by the liberal use of natural manure will not, as a rule,
need further help in this direction, but it should receive a good dressing of lime. Indeed,
any soil in which Sweet Peas are to be grown should contain not less than two per cent. of
lime. The employment of artificial, as well as organic, manures is essential in any first-class
scheme of cultivation. But here a word of warning is necessary. Nitrogenous manures in any
form are harmful to the plant when applied in large quantities, and are liable to predispose
it to disease, except on extreme types of sandy soil. Heavy ground should be dressed with seven
pounds of basic slag in autumn and two pounds of sulphate of potash in spring. On light soils
apply in spring four pounds of superphosphate of lime and two pounds of sulphate of potash.
The quantities stated in each case are sufficient for a square pole of ground. Wood ashes (in
a dry state) are also of great value, and these should be raked in a little in advance of planting
out.

The special preparation of the soil just described entails the raising of plants in pots or
boxes in readiness for transfer to the open as early as weather permits in spring. The finest
flowers are undoubtedly obtained from an autumn sowing, and about the middle of September may
be regarded as the best period for putting in the seed. This early commencement possesses the
advantage of allowing ample time for the development of sturdy, well-rooted plants, which will
not only bloom in advance of those sown in spring but will remain in flower for an unusually
long period. Sow in light porous soil, and either three-inch pots, pans or boxes may be used.
Place in a cold frame and keep the lights down until the seeds have germinated, but afterwards
the frame should never be closed except during severe weather. There must be no misunderstanding
on the question of air-giving. The Sweet Pea is almost hardy, and robust healthy seedlings,
grown as nearly as possible under natural conditions, are wanted. Therefore to subject the
plant to artificial heat will only defeat the object in view. A current of air should be admitted
to the frame day and night, and the lights may be entirely removed on all favourable occasions.
But the seedlings will need protection from excessive moisture, for if too wet at the roots
they are liable to injury from frost. When four pairs of leaves are formed, stop each plant
once, and after a little further progress has been made transplant singly into three-inch pots.
Keep the pots in the frame, giving only such protection from hard weather as may be absolutely
necessary, and plant out on the first suitable opportunity. In the South transplanting may
be possible late in February or at the opening of March, but a month later will be safer in
districts north of the Trent.

Those who for any reason do not find it convenient to sow in autumn may start the seed early
in the year--from mid-January onwards, according to the district. The general principles described
in the preceding paragraph apply equally to spring sowings, but it may be well to say that
there must be no attempt to hasten growth by the application of a high temperature. A frame
will afford all the protection necessary, and even a box covered with glass and placed in a
sheltered spot will be found serviceable for raising seedlings.

Before planting out, the top soil of the ground prepared in autumn must be well worked and
made friable. The disposition of the plants, and the method adopted for staking them, will,
to a great extent, depend on the precise purpose for which the flowers are required. For garden
decoration single rows answer well, and the plants should be spaced one foot apart. Or, if
preferred, put out in clumps of three to five plants, allowing a diameter of from nine to fifteen
inches. Carefully remove the plants from the pots or boxes in which they were raised, disentangle
the roots and shake them quite free from soil. Make a hole of the necessary depth, and allow
the roots to descend into the ground to their full extent, which may be as much as two feet
in the case of well-grown specimens from autumn-sown seed. Give support immediately with well-branched
twigs, and it is important that the plants be kept perfectly upright. Finally stake with bushy
hazel sticks eight to ten feet in height, or taller still where the ground has been generously
prepared.

Long-stemmed flowers free from blemish are essential for show work and for the highest forms
of house decoration, and to insure an adequate supply over an extended period the following
method, which is adopted by some of the most successful exhibitors, is strongly to be recommended.
The plants are put out in double rows one foot apart, and spaced a foot apart in the lines.
Each plant should carry two shoots only, both of which must be provided with a rod of bamboo,
ash, or hazel, ten to twelve feet in length. For this double cordon system the rods will stand
six inches apart in the rows, and it is desirable to make them secure against damage from high
winds. Insert a stout pole at each end of the row, and about seven feet from the ground-level
fix to each pole a substantial wooden crosspiece a little more than a foot in length. From
these cross-pieces tightly stretch strands of wire, to which securely tie the rods. As growth
develops commence disbudding promptly, regularly remove all laterals and tendrils, and tie
each cordon to its supporting rod with raffia as often as may be necessary.

After transfer to the open ground the plants must never be allowed to become dry at the roots.
Keep the hoe going between the rows, especially after the soil has been beaten down by rain.

The blooming period can be prolonged by the simple expedient of daily removing the dead or
faded flowers. The ripening of only a few seed-pods speedily puts a stop to flowering.

In the open ground seed may be sown in spring from February to May, and successional sowings
at intervals of a fortnight will extend the supply of flowers far into autumnal days. Even
where a few clumps only can be grown it is unwise to depend on a single sowing. Autumn sowings
outdoors are often made in September or October where a warm soil and favourable situation
can be insured.

Sweet Peas have two principal foes, the slug and the sparrow. Against the former the usual
precautions, such as ashes, old soot, lime, and various traps, are available; and the latter
must by some means be prevented from doing mischief. After the buds show through the soil,
it is generally too late for the adoption of remedies. Nearly all the heads will be found nipped
off and laid ready for inspection. One could almost forgive the marauders were food the object,
but the birds appear to commit havoc from pure wantonness, and whole rows are sometimes destroyed
in a single morning.

Early sprays are so much prized that the practice of flowering Sweet Peas in pots under glass
is yearly increasing, and for this purpose seed must be sown in August or September; the plants
to be kept slowly moving during the dark days. In February the growth will be more rapid, but
it is important to give the plants the hardiest possible treatment. In April, if properly managed,
there will be a brilliant display.

The winter-flowering race blooms freely at a still earlier period, although the plants are
less vigorous than other varieties.

==SWEET WILLIAM==

==Dianthus barbatus. Hardy biennial==

Sweet William belongs to the same genus as the Pink. The finest strains produce superb heads
of flowers, some of them intensely rich in colour, while others have a contrasting edge. The
new varieties are so marked an advance on older colours that they have created a fresh interest
in this favourite garden flower.

In several instances we have advised that biennials and perennials should be treated as annuals,
both on the ground of economy and for the excellent results obtained by this practice. But
the Sweet William is not amenable to any treatment which reduces the natural period of growth.

Seed may be sown in May, June or July for transplanting in autumn, and the numerous colours
afford opportunity of obtaining a great diversity of splendid effects in beds and borders.

==TOBACCO==--=see= ==NICOTIANA==

==TORENIA==

==Greenhouse annual==

Sow in a warm temperature in March or April. Prick off while small into pots, and subsequently
pot the seedlings singly. Any fairly good compost will suit them. The branches need support,
and the plants must be kept free from green fly. The Torenias make very elegant pot plants,
and they are also well adapted for hanging baskets and other ornamental contrivances.

==TROPÆOLUM==

==Nasturtium, or Indian Cress. Hardy and half-hardy annuals==

The =Tropæolum tuberosum= is treated under the 'Culture of Flowering Bulbs,' so that here we
have only to consider the varieties that are grown from seed. There are two distinct classes,
both widely cultivated, for the seed is inexpensive, and the plants extremely showy durable,
and easily raised.

=Tropæolum majus= is the climbing Nasturtium, or great Indian Cress. The flower as originally
obtained from Peru was a rich orange, marked with deep reddish-brown, but it has been developed
into various shades of yellow and red, culminating in a tint which is almost black. The leaves
are nearly circular, and are attached to the long footstalks by the centre instead of at the
margin. Loudon fancifully compares the leaf to a buckler, and the flower to a helmet. The Lobbianum
section is close in habit, with smaller foliage borne on somewhat woolly stems. All the varieties
bloom freely, and constitute a brilliant class of climbers of great value for brightening the
backs of borders or hiding unsightly objects. After the seeds have been dibbled about an inch
deep in either April or May, the only attention the plants require is to nip out a straggling
shoot occasionally, or prevent a stray branch from reaching over and smothering some plant
which will not endure its embraces.

The well-known Canary Creeper (=T. canariense=) is a perfectly distinct variety, and as a half-hardy
annual should be raised under protection and planted out in May, although sowings in the open
ground in April and May often prove satisfactory. Unlike the others, it needs a rich soil to
insure vigorous growth. When liberally treated the entire plant will be covered with its bright
fairy-like flowers, until frost ends its career.

=Tropæolum majus nanum.=--The Tom Thumb, or Dwarf varieties, make excellent bedding plants,
blooming far on into the autumn after many of the regular bedders have faded and become shabby.
There is an extensive choice of colours in reds, yellows, and browns, which come perfectly
true from seed, and all possess the merit of flowering freely on very poor soil. They grow
luxuriantly on rich land, but then the foliage becomes a mere mask under which the flowers
are concealed. There is not one of the Tom Thumb class that may not be treated as a hardy annual,
and all afford opportunity of making a gorgeous show of colour at a cost ridiculously disproportionate
to the effect obtained. They are also admirably adapted for pot culture, making shapely plants
covered with bloom for a long period.

Many of the later introductions in Nasturtium are notable for their refined and delicate colouring,
and are extremely desirable subjects for the decoration of the dinner-table and small vases
in the drawing-room.

As the flavour of the flowers and leaves somewhat resembles that of common Cress, they are
frequently used in salads, and are accounted an excellent anti-scorbutic. The flowers are legitimately
employed in decorating the salad-bowl, because they are not only ornamental but strictly edible.

In a green state the seeds of both tall and dwarf varieties make an excellent pickle which
is occasionally used as a substitute for capers.

==VERBENA==

==Hardy and half-hardy perennials==

VERBENAS raised from the best strains of seed come true to colour and the plants are models
of health and vigour, and make resplendent beds. It is of the utmost importance to remember
that the Verbena requires very little of the artificial heat to which it is commonly subjected,
and which fully accounts for the frequency of disease among plants propagated from cuttings.
Seed may be sown in boxes in January, February, and March, the earlier sowings naturally requiring
more heat than the later ones. As the seedlings become large enough, they should be potted
on and planted out in May, when they will flower throughout the summer, and far into the autumn.

Verbenas may also be sown in March or April in boxes, put into a frame, and if kept moist a
lot of plants will appear in about a month. When large enough these must be carefully lifted
and potted. A rich, mellow, and very sweet soil is needed by the Verbena. Many of the failures
that occur in its cultivation are not only traceable to the coddling of the plant under glass,
but also to the careless way in which it is often planted on poor worn-out soil that has been
cropped for years without manure, or even the sweetening effects of a good digging. Raising
Verbenas from seed has restored this plant to the list of easily grown and thoroughly useful
flowers for the parterre.

The hardy perennial =V. venosa= also comes perfectly true and uniform from seed.

==VIOLA==

==Tufted Pansy. Hardy perennial==

This plant well merits its popularity for use in beds and borders. It is perfectly hardy, the
habit is good, and it continues in bloom for several months in the year. The treatment prescribed
for Pansy is also suitable for Viola.

==WALLFLOWER==

==Cheiranthus Cheiri. Hardy biennial==

Wallflowers are often sown too late. As a result the growth is not thoroughly matured, and
the plants present but a feeble show of bloom. They should in their season be little mounds
of fire and gold, exhaling a perfume that few flowers can equal in its peculiar freshness.
Sow the seed in May or June, in a sunny place, on rather poor, but sweet and well-prepared
soil favourable to free rooting. When the plants are two inches high, transplant into rows
six inches asunder, allowing three inches apart in the row, and as soon as the plants overlap
transplant again, six or nine inches apart every way, aiding with water when needful to help
them to new growth. Or lift every other row and every other plant, leaving the remainder untouched
to supply flowers for cutting. When the beds are cleared of their summer occupants, they may
be filled with the best plants of Wallflower, to afford cheerful green leafage all through
the winter and a grand show of bloom in the spring, as frost will not hurt the single varieties;
but the doubles will not always endure the rigours of a severe winter.

==Early-flowering Varieties.==--By selection and cross-fertilisation an early-flowering race
of Wallflowers has been obtained, and it is now possible to enjoy for many months of the year
a fragrance which has hitherto been associated exclusively with spring. From a sowing made
in May or June the plants commence flowering in autumn and continue throughout the winter,
unless checked by frost. With the advent of spring weather, however, they burst into full bloom,
making a delightful display in advance of the ordinary varieties.

==WIGANDIA==

==Half-hardy perennial==

This plant is grown for its foliage, and is extensively used in sub-tropical gardening. The
instructions given for raising Ricinus in heat apply equally to this subject; but it is not
wise to rely on an open-air sowing for a supply of Wigandias.

==ZINNIA==

==Zinnia elegans. Half-hardy annual==

THE double varieties of Zinnia have entirely eclipsed the single form of this flower. They
grow to an immense size and are extremely valuable for beds and borders, the plants remaining
in bloom for a considerable period. Double Zinnias are so varied in colour and beautiful in
form that they deserve to take high rank as exhibition flowers.

The Zinnia is delicate, and should not be sown too soon. March is quite early enough to commence
operations, and the first week in April will be none too late for sowing. A compost that suits
Asters will answer admirably for Zinnias. Sow in 4-1/2 inch pots, which should have very free
drainage, and cover the seed thinly with fine soil. Plunge the pots at once in a temperature
of about 60°, when the seed will germinate quickly, and the plants on attaining one inch in
height can be potted off separately. Place them in a close frame, shade from sunshine, and
when well established, gradually give air and harden off. It will not be safe to transfer to
the open until the first week in June, unless the position is exceptionally sheltered and the
soil very dry. A shrubbery border is a suitable spot, and the more scorching the season the
finer will be the flowers. There must, however, be shelter from the wind, for the stems of
Zinnias are hollow, and easily damaged by a storm.

A satisfactory display of this flower may be obtained without the aid of heat by sowing in
the open ground about the middle of May. Select a sunny sloping border or bed for sowing, enrich
the soil, and make it fine. Press this down rather firmly, then drop three or four seeds at
intervals of from fifteen to eighteen inches between each group, and lightly cover them. In
due time thin to one plant at each station. If they thrive the branches will not only meet
but overlap, and produce a grand display. In the event of very dry weather at sowing time the
ground may be watered before the seed is put in, and then be covered with dry fine soil.

Zinnias do not transplant well, except as small seedlings. When it is necessary to undertake
the task, choose, if possible, a showery day, and shade each plant with an inverted flower-pot
for a few days, but take off the pots in the evening.

