So says my Sun, and prowd I was to lissen to his words; and this is what I can add to them
from my own knowlidg. There's sum of the old boys, as isn't quite as yung as when they left
Skool, as has formed a club to dine together sumtimes, and tork of old times, like senserbel
fellers as they is; and Mr. JOSEPH HARRIS, the gennelman in question, is allers there, and
allers has to make a speech, and I am amost allers there too; and, to hear the joyful shouts
of arty welcome with which his old pupils greets him when he rises for to speak, and their
roars of larfter at his wit, and his fun, and his good-humer, while he is a speaking, is so
wery remarkabel, that I sumtimes wanders whether it doesn't, a good deal of it, rise from the
fact of his great School being so close to Mr. Punch's own horfice. But this is over the way,
as the great writer says. May I be alowd to had that my speshal frend, and hewerybody's speshal
frend, Mr. COOKE, is reddy to receive any number of subskripshuns at 30, New Bridge Street, E.C.

ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW PROVIDENCE.--"My life is in your hands," as the Autobiographist said to his Publisher.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JOLLY YOUNG WATERMAN.

(LATEST VERSION; SUGGESTED BY A CASE AT THE LONDON SESSIONS.)

  And did you not hear of a jolly young Waterman,
    Who on the river his wherry did ply?
  When rowing along with great skill and dexterity,
    A Cask of Madeira it caught his pleased eye.
  It looked so nice, he rowed up steadily,
  Transferred that cask to his boat right readily;
  And he eyed the dear drink with so eager an air,
  For the name on the cask not a jot did he care.

  When smart EDDARD SAILL got that cask in his wherry,
    He cleaned it out--partly--with swiggings not small,
  And with his companions--what wonder?--made merry;
    Madeira's a wine that's not tippled by all.
  One fancies one hears 'em a laughing and cheering,
  Says EDDARD, "My boys, this is better than beering!
  A Waterman's life would be free from all care
  If he often dropped on treasure trove like that there."

  And yet but to think now how strangely things happen!
    They copped him for "larceny by finding,"--that's all!
  But SAILL couldn't read, and the jury was kindly,
    So EDDARD got off, though his chance appeared small.
  Now would this young Waterman keep out of sorrow,
  No derelict casks let him--shall we say, borrow?
  Madeira is nice, but you'd best have a care,
  Before swigging the wine, that it's yours fair and square!

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The Childhood and Youth of Dickens, a sort of short postscript to FORSTER's Life, very well
got up by its publishers HUTCHINSON & Co., will interest those who for the third or fourth
time are going through a course of DICKENS.

The Baron is an amateur of pocket-books and note-books. The best pocket-book must contain a
calendar-diary, and as little printed matter, and as much space for notes, as possible. No
pocket-book is perfect without some sort of patent pencil, of which the writing-metal, when
used on a damp surface, will serve as well as do pen and ink on ordinary paper. Such a pocket-book
with such a pencil the Baron has long had in use, the product of JOHN WALKER & Co., of Farringdon
House. It should be called The Walker Pocket-book, or Pedestrian's Companion; for, as "He who
runs may read," so, with this handy combination, "He who walks may write." The Baron is led
to mention this à propos of a novelty by T.J. SMITH AND DOWNES, called The Self-registering
Pocket Note-book, a very neat invention, quâ Note-book only, but of which only one size has
the invaluable patent pencil. The ordinary pencil entails carrying a knife, and, though this
is good for the cutler--"I know that man, he comes from Sheffield"--yet it is a defect which
is a constant source of worry to the ordinary note-taker. Otherwise, Messrs. SMITH AND DOWNES'
artfulness in making the pencil serve as a marker, so that the latest note can at once be found,
is decidedly ingenious, and may probably be found most useful. Experientia docet: Baronius
tentabit.

While on the subject of pocket-books, the Baron must thank Messrs. CASSELL & Co. for the pocket
volumes of the National Library edited by HENRY MORLEY, and ventures to recommend as a real
travelling companion, Essays, Civil and Moral, by Francis Bacon. In the eighteenth Essay "Of
Travel," the chief Diarists, "LETTS AND SON," might find a motto for their publications. The
Baron directs their attention to this side of BACON from which this is a slice,--"Let Diaries,
therefore, be brought in use." A new reading for advertising purposes would change "Let" into
"Letts," or Letts could be interpolated in brackets. "A cheeky way of treating BACON," says
the Baron's friend little FUNNIMAN (Author of Funniman's Poor Jokes); but, if nothing worse
than this can be said against the Baron's suggestion, why, "Letts adopt it," says

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.

    "In the words of the Postmaster-General, spoken yesterday
    (March 18th) from his room in St. Martin's-le-Grand, and
    distinctly heard by the head of a corresponding department
    in Paris, the triumph of the International Telephone is an
    accomplished fact."--Daily News.

  Hallo!--are you there? That's the cue international,
    Henceforth we'll hope, and we trust it may lead
  To colloquies pleasant, relations more rational.
    May "saucers" and tubes telephonic succeed
  In setting the world "by the ears," in a fashion
    Not meant by the men who invented that phrase.
  May nail-biting nagging and rancorous passion
                Die out, like a craze!

  Why, bless us, and save us! We ought to behave us
    A little bit better for all our new light.
  From incurable savagery nothing can save us
    If Science can't cool down our fondness for fight.
  With so many chances of "talking things over,"
    Like comrades in council, across the broad sea,
  Nations ought to be nice, as a girl and her lover
                At five o'clock tea!

  Eh? Vox et præterea nihil? What matter
    How close ears may seem if the hearts are apart?
  Humph! Nothing go easy as cynical chatter;
    Distrust's diplomatic, and satire sounds "smart."
  But, as RAIKES suggests, there is something in hearing
    The "great human voice" o'er some three hundred miles,
  In spite of the scorn that's so given to sneering,
                The hate that reviles.

  One wonders what TALLEYRAND, subtle old schemer!
    Would think of the Telephone were he alive.
  Wits sniff at the savant, and mock at the dreamer,
    Who else, though, so hard for humanity strive?
  BELLONA's sworn backers are woefully numerous;
    Peace, let us pray, may claim this as her friend;
  The "Sentiment" flouted by swashbucklers humorous
                Sways, at the end.

  If language was given our thoughts for concealing,
    The Telephone--'tis but a travelling Voice!--
  Need not be the agent of reckless revealing,
    And caution must often be candour's wise choice.
  Unwisdom is sure to be sometimes caught napping,
    And tongues may wag foolishly e'en through the wire.
  Facilities freer for summary snapping
                No sage can desire.

  Great diplomats, proud of their "able dispatches,"
    From trusting the tube with their wisdom may shrink.
  The brain that in secret shrewd policies hatches,
    May not care to canvas 'cute schemes "o'er a drink."
  Yet times must be many when sense will be winner
    By chatting of trifles, which nations have riled,
  As freely as though vis-à-vis at a dinner,
                And carefully "tiled."

  Now England and France can thus gossip together,
    And CARNOT and SALISBURY thus hob-a-nob,
  We'll hope for set-fair international weather.
    Our RAIKES and their ROCHE appear well "on the job."
  The Telephone's triumph at least is not sinister.
    Things should go easier somehow--with care,
  When patriot Minister greets patriot Minister,
                "Hallo!--are you there?"

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER TELEPHONIC SUGGESTION.--Connect the Theatres and Opera Houses by Telephone with all
the Clubs. On payment of a fixed charge, any member should be able to hear just as much of
the piece or Opera as he might require. Something above the price of a Stall to be the maximum
charge for one person to hear entire Opera. For half the Opera, say six shillings; for a quarter
of it, three-and-six. For hearing one song in it, eighteen-pence; and, if certain songs be
in great demand, the prices could be raised.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPIGRAMMATIC DEFINITION OF MOST PUBLIC BANQUETS WITH POSTPRANDIAL ORATORY.--"Stuff and Nonsense."

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HANDS AS THEY ARE SHOOK.

(NEW STYLE.)

  In healthier times, when friends would meet
  Their friends in chamber, park, or street,
  Each, as hereunder, each would greet.

  Tour level hand went forth; you clasped
  Your crony's; each his comrade's grasped--
  If roughly, neither friend was rasped.

  Such was the good old-fashioned one
  Of honest British "How d'ye do?"
  I think it manly still--don't you?

  But now, when smug acquaintance hails
  A set that would be "smart," but fails,
  Another principle prevails.

  The arm, in lifted curve displayed,
  Droops limply o'er the shoulder-blade,
  As needing some chirurgeon's aid:

  The wrist is wrenched of JONES and BROWN,
  Those ornaments of London Town;
  Their listless fingers dribble down:

  BROWN reaches to the knuckle-bones
  Of thus-excruciated JONES;
  BROWN's hand the same affliction owns.

  At length his finger-tips have pressed
  The fingers of his JONES distressed:
  Both curvatures then sink to rest.

  A sort of anguish lisped proceeds
  Prom either's mouth, but neither heeds
  The other's half-heroic deeds.

  Exhausted, neither much can say;
  Complacent, each pursues his way;
  And JONES and BBOWN have lived to-day.

  For both have sought by strenuous strain
  To demonstrate, in face of pain,
  That friends they were, and friends remain.

  Ah, wonderful! Can Poets deem
  Self-sacrifice a fading dream?
  Are salutations what they seem?

  Is BROWN some Altruist in disguise,
  And JONES an Ibsenite likewise,
  That thus they flop and agonise?--

  Or are the pair affected fools,
  Who catch by rote the silly rules
  Of third-rate fashionable schools?

       *       *       *       *       *

COURT COLD!

(A PAGE FROM THE DIARY OF A CHAPERON.)

They commanded her to rise early. She knew that the day's doings would be a terrible ordeal,
but she came of a bold and sturdy race, and felt herself equal to any emergency. And so as
the morning broke--as daylight crept through the foggy air--she prepared for the sacrifice.
Yes, sacrifice; for was it not a sacrifice to barter away youth, pride, nay, life itself! And
I had a hand in the matter! Ah, me--but away with vain regret!

I have been told since that they were hours and hours arranging her toilette. So long did it
take that she was scarcely able to break her fast. She had, I believe, a cup of tea, and if
rumour is to be credited, a couple of slices of thin bread-and-butter! Well, it is over now,
and I can think of it almost without tears!

I called for her shortly after noon--for the lot had fallen upon me, and I was destined to
attend her to her doom--she was very calm, and even smiled as I kissed her. She shivered a
little as she sank beside me. I bade her to wrap her shawl more closely around her, and after
she had complied with my command she seemed more at ease.

And now our conveyance had come to a full stop. We were surrounded by a sea of vulgar, hideous
faces, grinning and mocking at us! My charge clung to me for protection. The laughter and the
jeers increased tenfold. Then I cast her away from me roughly, whereupon followed yells mixed
with savage laughter. She, poor girl, regained her composure, and gazed at the multitude with
the dignity of an outraged queen. And they laughed the more! Laughed the more!

At length we were set free, and made our way to a large apartment, where we were divested of
our wraps, and left in costumes better adapted to late June than to early March, or mid-December.
We were then ordered to advance. We were driven from one bitterly cold room to another, until
we knew not whether the blood was circulating in our veins, or had frozen. We had many fellow-sufferers,
and these poor creatures pushed against us, and fought with us. The great object of everyone
was to get to the end of our journey!

She staggered bravely along, until at last they took away the yards of satin she carried round
her arm, and spread it out behind. Then her name was uttered, or, rather, mispronounced. She
sank on her knees; and, on regaining her feet, was hustled away, to follow a number of fellow-victims
who had been treated with like indignity.

Once more there was the bitter cold. This time the draughts were met in that hall, and endured,
until the conveyance arrived to move us on--she to stand for a couple of hours amidst gossiping
friends, and I to go to bed.

But the seeds of death were sown! She never recovered the shock, and an addition to the inscriptions
above the family-vault tells of her early decease!

And who was this poor girl? A homeless one, wandering the streets of London? or a political
prisoner, on her way to Siberia? Neither! She was merely a débutante, attending her first (and
last) Spring Drawing-room at Buckingham Palace!

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE (by Our Own Noodle).--Father Buonaparte, at the Olympic, judging from the account of it
in the Times, seems to consist of "a part" for our WILSON BARRETT, the remainder being skeletonish,
or "boney."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RAIKES REX!

    Somebody once said that ultimately the Solar System would
    probably become a branch of the General Post Office. The
    present Postmaster-General is obviously of opinion that that
    state of things has already come about.

  To rule a realm as limitless as space,
    With the great G.P.O. as Central Sun,
  RAIKES is the man. Of Great Panjandrum race,
    He's Autocrat and Oracle in one.
  The Universe indeed were no great shakes
  Without RAIKES Rex for Ruler. Vivat RAIKES!!! No lack of matter for quarrel.
Even before public business was reached, Orders bristled with Motions
raising controversial points. Lord CHUNNEL-TANNEL, that man of peace,
was to the fore; his Bill, extending Manchester. Sheffield, and
Lincolnshire Railway into London via Lord's Cricket Ground, down for
Second Reading. That redoubtable Parliamentary Archer BAUMANN also
on alert. Has taken under his personal charge the social and material
welfare of Metropolis; at one time HARRY LAWSON, on other side of
House, disputed supremacy of position with him. But, as SARK says,
BAUMANN has immense advantage of making Liberal speeches from
Conservative side.

"If," says SARK, "I had to begin my Parliamentary life again, I would sit for a Tory borough,
and advocate Radical notions. If it were possible, I would, with such a programme, like to
represent one of the Universities, Oxford for choice. There's a sameness about fellows who
fret up from Liberal benches and spout Radicalism, or about men who talk Toryism from the Conservative
camp. It's what was expected; what the House of Commons enjoys is the unexpected. GRANDOLPH
knows that very well. If he'd come out as a Liberal, he wouldn't have been half the power he
is. The secret of success in political life, my young friend, is to sit in darkness, and clothe
yourself with light. The thing doesn't hold good in the converse direction. A man sitting on
Liberal benches, and talking Toryism, will gain cheers from other side, but not much else.
Look at HORSMAN in the past; look at JOKIM in the present. Certainly he is CHANCELLOR OF THE
EXCHEQUER; but, even with that, I suppose you wouldn't call him a political success?"

SARK a little prosy and opinionated; otherwise a good fellow. Whilst his homily in progress
ground considerably cleared. Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Bill put oft till to-morrow;
Kensington Subway Bill withdrawn; BAUMANN triumphant. Still remained public business; OLD MORALITY
led off with proposal to take Tuesdays and Fridays for morning sittings and Opposition mustered
in great force; Mr. G. present, glowing with his own eulogy on ARTEMIS. OLD MORALITY moved
Resolution with deprecatory deferential manner; only desire was to do his duty to QUEEN and
Country and meet the convenience of Honourable Gentlemen sitting in whatever part of the House
they might find themselves. Evidently expected outburst of indignant refusal, long debate,
and a big division. Some indignation, but little debate and no division. Everyone on Opposition
Benches seemed to expect some one else to declare himself irreconcilable. When question put,
a pause; no one rose to continue the successive brief speeches; before you could say JAMES
FERGUSON, Government had, on this 16th of March, practically secured all working time for remainder
of Session.

"I feel like CLIVE," said OLD MORALITY; "or was it WARREN HASTINGS? Anyhow I am amazed at my
own moderation."

Business done,--Morning Sittings arranged for rest of Session.

Tuesday.--"Lords" and Commons came in conflict to-day under novel circumstances. Lord TANNEL-CHUNNEL,
pending settlement of question about making his Channel Tunnel, is promoting new trunk line
of railway. Means to bring the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincoln line straight into London;
terminus comes in by Lord's Cricket Ground; invades the sweet simplicity of St. John's Wood;
artistic population of that quarter up in arms; shriek protest in Lord CHUNNEL-TANNEL's ear,
and shake at him the angry fist. But TANNEL-CHUNNEL not a Baron easily turned aside from accomplishment
of his projects. Squares Committee of "Lords"; impresses into support of his scheme representatives
of all the big towns on the route; Manchester, Nottingham, Leicester, all cheer him on; Liberals,
Conservatives, Dissentient Liberals, swell his majority. Second Reading of Bill carried by
more than two to one.

"How's that, Umpire?" CHUNNEL-TANNEL asked, carrying out his bat. "Well played, indeed!" said
the SPEAKER.

Seemed at one time as if blood would flow, and gore would stain the floor of House. BARNES
and WIGGINS were in it, but what it was all about not quite clear. Something to do with a coal-truck.
As far as could be made out from choked utterances of BARNES, there had at some remote period
been a coal-truck despatched to London by the Midland route. Something happened to it; either
it was delayed, or it arrived empty, or it didn't arrive at all. However, it was quite clear
to BARNES that the time had come when a new line of railway giving direct access to London
from the Midlands was an urgent necessity. WIGGINS observed to be wriggling in his seat during
the BARNES oration. Made several attempts to catch SPEAKER's eye; at length succeeded; his
suppressed fury was terrible to behold: his rage Titanic. He at least knew all about that coal-truck;
though, as far as House was concerned, he did not succeed in lifting the mystery in which BARNES
had enveloped it. Whether it was WIGGINS's coal, or merely WIGGINS's truck; whether WIGGINS
happened to be in the truck when it went astray; or whether it was BARNES that was in it; or
whether nothing was in it but the coal; or whether, coming back to an earlier point, there
was no coal in the truck when it did (or did not) arrive at St. Pancras: these were questions
the House vainly pursued, withered, as it was, under the wrath of WIGGINS The only point clearly
perceived was, that BIGGINS is a director of Midland Railway.

In ordinary circumstances there are not to be found in House two more affable men than BARNES
and WIGGINS. Amongst many other virtues, WIGGINS is, SARK tells me, one of the best judges
of cigars in House, and is never without a sample in his case. It is sad to think that a man
so gifted by nature, so favoured by fortune, should let his angry passions rise round a coal-truck.
House, contemplating the episode, glad to shut it out by rushing off to Division Lobby. Business
done.--Manchester, Sheffield, and Lincolnshire Railway Bill, Read a Second Time, by 212 Votes
to 103.

Thursday.--House engaged in considering Lords' Amendments to Tithes Bill. Things as dull as
usual; House nearly empty; walk about corridors through tea-room, newspaper-room, and library;
almost deserted; in smoking-room came upon little group playing cards; three of them; SOLICITOR-GENERAL,
CHABLES RUSSELL, and ASQUITH, LOCKWOOD looking on.

"I suppose," I said, "they're playing whist; why don't you make up the hand?"

"Whisht! it's not whist!" LOCKWOOD whispered, keeping his eye closely fixed on game. "It's
Baccarat. (Ah! CLARKE! I saw you. Come, pay up. You did that very clumsily.) It's the Tranby
Court case you know. I'm not in it, but my learned brethren here hold briefs on either side,
and they say they are bound, in the interests of their clients, to master the intricacies of
the game. I must say they have managed very successfully to subordinate their horror of gambling.
RUSSELL, you know, has a positive distaste for any game of chance. But as he says, a Barrister
must sometimes put his prejudices in his pocket. ASQUITH brings to the game a serious aspect
that positively sanctifies it. As for EDWARD CLARKE, he's wonderfully nimble. He was trying
la poucette just now when I called out to him. As everything turns upon this, my learned friends
say they must make themselves acquainted with it. But I hope it won't lead to any breaking
up of families. I'm told the Judges who are likely to be trying cases in London before Whitsuntide,
impelled by a similar sense of duty, are also studying Baccarat. The L.C.J. is reported to
have developed a wonderful talent. As a family man, and Recorder of Sheffield, I'm glad I'm
not briefed in the case."

Business done.--Tithes Bill.

Friday.--Young HARRY LAWSON, with his beaver up, moved Resolution approving the opening for
certain hours, and under special regulations, of the National Museums and Galleries, closed
in London to the public on Sundays, made capital and convincing speech; supported by men like
JOHN LUBBOCK, and, from Conservative side, MAYNE and ELCHO. Earlier in sitting, the voice of
Whitechapel, Hoxton, Shoreditch, and Bethnal Green, had been heard by petition, praying for
the boon. But dear old ROBERT FOWLER knows better what is good for the people. Opposed Motion.
OLD MORALITY, who never goes into his picture gallery at Greenlands after midnight on Saturday,
whipped up Government forces; Motion lost by 166 against 39.

