"I don't believe you could help enjoying the whole of it, except the very minute of the tip-out
itself, before you knew," said Sylvie, laughing.

"Well, it was a lark; but the worst is coming. I've got to go home all alone. I wish you'd
come and tell the tale for me, Miss Sylvie. I shouldn't be half so afraid!"

CHAPTER III.

TWO TRIPS IN THE TRAIN.

The seven o'clock morning train was starting from Dorbury Upper Village.

Early business men, mechanics, clerks, shop-girls, sewing-girls, office-boys,--these made up
the list of passengers. Except, perhaps, some travellers now and then, bound for a first express
from Boston, or an excursion party to take a harbor steamer for a day's trip to Nantasket or
Nahant.

Did you ever contrast one of these trains--when perhaps you were such traveller or excursionist--with
the after, leisurely, comfortable one at ten or eleven; when gentlemen who only need to be
in the city through banking hours, and ladies bent on calls or elegant shopping, come chatting
and rustling to their seats, and hold a little drawing-room exchange in the twenty-five minutes'
trip?

If you have,--and if you have a little sympathetic imagination that fills out hints,--you have
had a glimpse of some of these "other girls" and the thing that daily living is to them, with
which my story means to concern itself.

Have you noticed the hats, with the rose or the feather behind or at top, scrupulously according
to the same dictate of style that rules alike for seven and ten o'clock, but which has often
to be worn through wet and dry till the rose has been washed by too many a shower, and the
feather blown by too many a dusty wind, to stand for anything but a sign that she knows what
should be where, if she only had it to put there? Have you seen the cheap alpacas, in two shades,
sure to fade in different ways and out of kindred with each other, painfully looped in creasing
folds, very much sat upon, but which would not by any means resign themselves to simple smoothed
straightness, while silks were hitched and crisp Hernanis puffed?

Yet the alpacas, and all their innumerable cousinhood, have also their first mornings of fresh
gloss, when the newness of the counter is still upon them; there is a youth for all things;
a first time, a charm that seems as if it might last, though we know it neither will nor was
meant to; if it would, or were, the counters might be taken down. And people who wear gowns
that are creased and faded, have each, one at a time, their days of glory, when they begin
again. The farther apart they come, perhaps the more of the spring-time there is in them.

Marion Kent bloomed out this clear, sweet, clean summer morning in a span new tea-colored zephyrine
polonaise with three little frills edged with tiny brown braid, which set it off trimly with
the due contrasting depth of color, and cost nearly nothing except the stitches and the kerosene
she burned late in the hot July nights in her only time for finishing it. She had covered her
little old curled leaf of a hat with a tea-colored corner that had been left, and puffed it
up high and light to the point of the new style, with brown veil tissue that also floated off
in an abundant cloudy grace behind; and she had such an air of breezy and ecstatic elegance
as she came beaming and hastening into the early car, that nobody really looked down to see
that the underskirt was the identical black brilliantine that had done service all the spring
in the dismal mornings of waterproofs and india-rubbers and general damp woolen smells and
blue nips and shivers.

Marion Kent always made you think of things that never at all belonged to her. She gave you
an impression of something that she seemed to stand for, which she could not wholly be. Her
zephyrine, with its silky shine, hinted at the real lustres of far more costly fabrics; her
hat, perked up with puffs of grenadine (how all these things do rhyme and repeat their little
Frenchy tags of endings!) put you in mind of lace and feathers, and a general float and flutter
of gay millinery; her step and expression, as she came airily into this second-rate old car,
put on for the "journeymen" train, brought up a notion, almost, of some ball-room advent, flushed
and conscious and glad with the turning of all admiring eyes upon it; her face, even, without
being absolutely beautiful, sparkled out at you a certain will and force and intent of beauty
that shot an idea or suggestion of brilliant prettiness instantly through your unresisting
imagination, compelling you to fill out whatever was wanting; and what more, can you explain,
do feature and bearing that come nearest to perfect fulfillment effect?

The middle-aged cabinet-maker looked over his newspaper at her as she came in; he had little
daughters of his own growing up to girlhood, and there might have been some thought in his
head not purely admiring; but still he looked up. The knot of office-boys, crowding and skylarking
across a couple of seats, stopped their shuffle and noise for a second, and one said, "My!
ain't she stunning?" A young fellow, rather spruce in his own way also, with precise necktie,
deep paper cuffs and dollar-store studs and initial sleeve-buttons, touched his hat with an
air of taking credit to himself, as she glanced at him; and another, in a sober old gray suit,
with only a black ribbon knotted under his linen collar, turned slightly the other way as she
approached, and with something like a frown between his brows, looked out of the window at
a wood-pile.

Marion's cheeks were a tint brighter, and her white teeth seemed to flash out a yet more determined
smile, as, passing him by, she seated herself with friendly bustle among some girls a little
behind him.

"In again, Marion?" said one. "I thought you'd left."

"Only in for a transient," said Marion, with a certain clear tone that reminded one of the
stage-trainer's direction to "speak to the galleries." "Nellie Burton is sick, and Lufton sent
for me. I'll do for a month or so, and like it pretty well; then I shall have a tiff, I suppose,
and fling it up again; I can't stand being ordered round longer than that."

"Or longer than the new lasts," said the other slyly, touching the drapery sleeve of the zephyrine.
"It is awful pretty, Marry!"

"Yes, and while the new lasts Lufton'll be awful polite," returned Marion. "He likes to see
his girls look stylish, I can tell you. When things begin to shab out, then the snubbing begins.
And how they're going to help shabbing out I should like to know, dragging round amongst the
goods and polishing against the counters? and who's going to afford ready-made, or pay for
sewing, out of six dollars a week and cars and dinners, let alone regular board, that some
of 'em have to take off? Why there isn't enough left for shoes! No wonder Lufton's always changing.
Well--there's one good of it! You can always get a temporary there. Save up a month and then
put into port and refit. That's the way I do."

"But what does it come to, after all's said and done? and what if you hadn't the port?" asked
Hannah Upshaw, the girl with the shawl on, who never wore suits.

Marion Kent shrugged her shoulders.

"I don't know, yet. I take things as they come to me. I don't pretend to calculate for anybody
else. I know one thing, though, there is other things to be done,--and it isn't sewing-machines
either, if you can once get started. And when I can see my way clear, I mean to start. See
if I don't!"

