THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIV, NO. 406.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1829. [PRICE 2d.

VIRGIL'S TOMB.

This consecrated relic of genius stands on the hill of Posilipo, in the environs of Naples.
Its recent state is so beautifully described by Eustace, that we shall not, like gipsys do
stolen children, disfigure it to prevent recognition.

Proceeding westward along the Chiaia and keeping towards the beach, says Eustace, we came to
the quarter called Mergyllina. To ascend the hill of Posilipo we turned to the right, and followed
a street winding as a staircase up the steep, and terminating at a garden gate. Having entered,
we pursued a path through a vineyard and descending a little, came to a small square building,
flat-roofed, placed on a sort of platform on the brow of a precipice on one side, and on the
other sheltered by a super-incumbent rock. An aged ilex, spreading from the sides of the rock,
and bending over the edifice, covers the roof with its ever verdant foliage. Numberless shrubs
spring around, and interwoven with ivy clothe the walls and hang in festoons over the precipice.
The edifice before us was an ancient tomb--the tomb of VIRGIL! We entered; a vaulted cell and
two modern windows alone presented themselves to view: the poet's name is the only ornament
of the place. No sarcophagus, no urn, and even no inscription to feed the devotion of the classical
pilgrim. The epitaph which though not genuine is yet ancient, was inscribed by the order of
the Duke of Pescolangiano, then proprietor of the place, on a marble slab placed in the side
of the rock opposite the entrance of the tomb, where it still remains.

But there are authors who venture to assert, that the tomb of which we are now speaking, is
not the sepulchre of Virgil. Of this number are the classic Addison and the laborious and accurate
Cluverius. The authority of two such eminent persons, without doubt, carries great weight with
it, but that weight is upon this occasion considerably lessened by the weakness of the arguments
on which their opinion is grounded. These arguments may be found in Cluverius, and Addison
merely expresses his opinion without entering into any discussion. They are drawn from a few
verses of Statius.

In opposition to these arguments, or rather conjectures founded upon the vague expressions
of a single poet (a poet often censured for his obscurity), we have the constant and uninterrupted
tradition of the country supported by the authority of a numerous host of learned and ingenious
antiquaries; and upon such grounds we may still continue to cherish the conviction, that we
have visited the tomb of Virgil, and hailed his sacred shade on the spot where his ashes long
reposed.

The laurel which was once said to have sprung up at its base, and covered it with its luxuriant
branches, now flourishes only in the verses of youthful bards, or in the descriptions of early
travellers; myrtle, ivy and ilex, all plants equally agreeable to the genius of the place,
and the subjects of the poet, now perform the office of the long-withered bays, and encircle
the tomb with verdure and perfume.

The sepulchre of Virgil, it may be imagined, must have long remained an object of interest
and veneration, especially as his works had excited universal admiration even in his life-time,
and were very soon after his death put into the hands of children, and made a part of the rudiments
of early education. Yet Martial declares that it had been neglected in his time, and that Silius
Italicus alone restored its long forgotten honours.

