The British fleet, commanded by admiral Matthews, overawed all the states that bordered on
the Mediterranean. This officer, about the end of June, tinder-standing that fourteen xebecks,
laden with artillery and ammunition for the Spanish army, had arrived at Genoa, sailed thither
from the road of Hieres, and demanded of the republic that they would either oblige these vessels
with the stores to quit their harbour, or sequester their lading until a general peace should
bo established. After some dispute, it was agreed that the cannon and stores should be deposited
in the castle of Bonifacio, situated on a rock at the south end of Corsica; and that the xebecks
should have leave to retire without molestation. The Corsicans had some years before revolted,
and shaken off the dominion of the Genoese, under which their island had remained for many
centuries. They found themselves oppressed, and resolved to assert their freedom. They conferred
the sovereign authority on a German adventurer, who was solemnly proclaimed by the name of
king Theodore. He had supplied them with some arms and ammunition, which he had brought from
Tunis; and amused them with promises of being assisted by foreign powers in retrieving their
independency; but as these promises were not performed, they treated him so roughly, that he
had thought proper to quit the island, and they submitted again to their old masters. The troubles
of Corsica were now revived. Theodore revisited his kingdom, and was recognised by the principal
chiefs of the island. He published a manifesto; he granted a general pardon to all his subjects
who should return to their obedience; he pretended to be countenanced and supported by the
king of Great Britain and the queen of Hungary. He was certainly thought a proper instrument
to perplex and harass the Genoese, and supplied at this juncture with a sum of money to purchase
arms for the Corsicans; but a change soon happened in the British ministry, and then he was
suffered to relapse into his original obscurity. Admiral Matthews, though he did not undertake
any expedition of importance against the maritime towns of Spain, continued to assert the British
empire at sea through the whole extent of the Mediterranean. The Spanish army under don Philip
was no sooner in motion, than the English admiral ordered some troops and cannon to be disembarked
for the security of Villa-Franca. Some stores having been landed at Civita-Vecchia, for the
use of the Spanish forces under count Gages, Matthews interpreted this transaction into a violation
of the neutrality which the pope had professed, and sent thither a squadron to bombard the
place. The city of Eome was filled with consternation; and the pope had recourse to the good
offices of his Sardinian majesty, in consequence of which the English squadron was ordered
to withdraw. The captains of single cruising ships, by their activity and vigilance, wholly
interrupted the commerce of Spain; cannonaded and burned some towns on the seaside, and kept
the whole coast in continual alarm. [283] [See note 2 N, at the end of this Vol.]

FRUITLESS ATTEMPTS UPON THE SPANISH SETTLEMENTS.

In the West Indies some unsuccessful efforts were made by an English squadron, commanded by
commodore Knowles. He attacked La Gueir on the coast of Carraccas, in the month of February;
but met with such a warm reception, that he was obliged to desist, and make the best of his
way for the Dutch island Curacoa, where he repaired the damage he had sustained. His ships
being refitted, he made another attempt upon Porte Cavallo in April, which like the former
miscarried. Twelve hundred marines being landed in the neighbourhood of the place, were seized
with such a panic, that it was found necessary to re-embark them without delay. Then the commodore
abandoned the enterprise and sailed back to his station at the Leeward Islands, without having
added much to his reputation, either as to conduct or resolution. On the continent of America
the operations of the war were very inconsiderable. General Oglethorpe having received intelligence
that the Spaniards prepared for another invasion from St. Augustine, assembled a body of Indians,
as a reinforcement to part of his own regiment, with the highlanders and rangers, and in the
spring began his march, in order to anticipate the enemy. He encamped for some time in the
neighbourhood of St. Augustine, by way of a defiance; but they did not think proper to hazard
an engagement; and as he was in no condition to undertake a siege, he returned to Georgia.
In October the princess Louisa, youngest daughter of his Britannic majesty, was married by
proxy, at Hanover, to the prince-royal of Denmark, who met her at Altona, and conducted her
to Copenhagen.

CHAPTER V.

     Debate in Parliament against the Hanoverian Troops.....
     Supplies granted..... Projected Invasion of Great
     Britain..... A French Squadron sails up the English
     Channel..... The Kingdom is put in a Posture of Defence.....
     The Design of the French defeated..... War between France
     and England..... Dill against those who should correspond
     with the Sons of the Pretender..... Naval Engagement off
     Toulon..... Advances towards Peace made by the Emperor.....
     Treaty of Franckfort..... Progress of the French King in the
     Netherlands..... Prince Charles of Lorraine passes the
     Rhine..... The King of Prussia makes an Irruption into
     Bohemia..... Campaign in Bavaria and Flanders..... The King
     of Naples joins Count Gages in Italy-Battle of Coni.....
     Return of Commodore Anson..... Sir John Balchen perishes at
     Sea...... Revolution in the British Ministry..... Session of
     Parliament..... Death of the Emperor Charles VII......
     Accommodation between the Queen of Hungary and the young
     Elector of Bavaria..... The King of Prussia gains two
     successive Battles at Friedberg and Sohr over the Austrian
     and Saxon Forces..... Treaty of Dresden..... The Grand Duke
     of Tuscany elected Emperor of Germany..... The Allies are
     defeated at Fontenoy..... The King of Sardinia is almost
     stripped of his Dominions..... The English Forces take Cape
     Breton..... The Importance of this Conquest..... Project of
     an Insurrection in Great Britain..... The eldest Son of the
     Chevalier de St. George lands in Scotland..... Takes
     Possession of Edinburgh..... Defeats Sir John Cope at
     Preston-Pans..... Efforts of the Friends of Government in
     Scotland..... Precautions taken in England..... The Prince
     Pretender reduces Carlisle, and penetrates as far as
     Derby..... Consternation of the Londoners..... The Rebels
     retreat into Scotland..... They invest the Castle of
     Stirling..... The King's Troops under Hawley are worsted at
     Falkirk..... The Duke of Cumberland assumes the Command of
     the Forces in Scotland..... The Rebels undertake the Siege
     of Fort-William

The discontents of England were artfully inflamed by anti-ministerial writers, who not only
exaggerated the burdens of the people, and drew frightful pictures of the distress and misery
which, they said, impended over the nation, but also employed the arts of calumny and misrepresentation,
to excite a jealousy and national quarrel between the English and Hanoverians. They affirmed
that in the last campaign the British general had been neglected and despised; while the councils
of foreign officers, greatly inferior to him in capacity, quality, and reputation, had been
followed, to the prejudice of the common cause; that the British troops sustained daily insults
from their own mercenaries, who were indulged with particular marks of royal favour; that the
sovereign himself appeared at Dettingen in a Hanoverian scarf; and that his electoral troops
were of very little service in that engagement. Though the most material of these assertions
were certainly false, they made a strong impression on the minds of the people, already irritated
by the enormous expense of a continental war maintained for the interest of Germany. When the
parliament met in the beginning of December, a motion was made in the house of peers by the
earl of Sandwich, for an address, beseeching his majesty to discontinue the Hanoverian troops
in British pay, in order to remove the popular discontent, and stop the murmurs of the English
troops abroad. He was supported by the duke of Bedford, the earl of Chesterfield, and all the
leaders in the opposition, who did not fail to enumerate and insist upon all the circumstances
we have mentioned. They moreover observed, that better troops might be hired at a smaller expense;
that it would be a vain and endless task to exhaust the national treasure in enriching a hungry
and barren electorate; that the popular dissatisfaction against these mercenaries was so general,
and raised to such violence, as nothing but their dismission could appease; that if such hirelings
should be thus continued from year to year, they might at last become a burden entailed upon
the nation, and be made subservient, under some ambitious prince, to purposes destructive of
British liberty. These were the suggestions of spleen and animosity: for, granting the necessity
of a land war, the Hanoverians were the most natural allies and auxiliaries which Great Britain
could engage and employ. How insolent soever some few individual generals of that electorate
might have been in their private deportment, certain it is their troops behaved with great
sobriety, discipline, and decorum; and in the day of battle did their duty with as much courage
and alacrity as any body of men ever displayed on the like occasion. The motion was rejected
by the majority; but, when the term for keeping them in the British pay was nearly expired,
and the estimates for their being continued the ensuing year were laid before the house, the
earl of Sandwich renewed his motion. The lord-chancellor, as speaker of the house, interposing,
declared that by their rules a question once rejected could not be revived during the same
session. A debate ensued, and the second motion was over-ruled. The Hanoverian troops were
voted in the house of commons; nevertheless, the same nobleman moved in the tipper house, that
the continuing sixteen thousand Hanoverians in British pay was prejudicial to his majesty's
true interest, useless to the common cause, and dangerous to the welfare and tranquillity of
the nation. He was seconded by the duke of Marlborough, who had resigned his commission in
disgust; and the proposal gave birth to another warm dispute: but victory declared, as usual,
for the ministry.

In the house of commons they sustained divers attacks. A motion was made for laying a duty
of eight shillings in the pound on all places and pensions. Mr. Grenville moved for an address,
to beseech his majesty that he would not engage the British nation any further in the war on
the continent, without the concurrence of the states-general on certain stipulated proportions
of force and expense, as in the late war. These proposals begat vigorous debates, in which
the country party were always foiled by dint of superior number. Such was the credit and influence
of the ministry in parliament, that although the national debt was increased by above six millions
since the commencement of the war, the commons indulged them with an enormous sum for the expense
of the ensuing year. The grants specified in the votes amounted to six millions and a half;
to this sum were added three millions and a half paid to the sinking fund in perpetual taxes;
so that this year's expense rose to ten millions. The funds established for the annual charge
were the land and malt taxes; one million paid by the East India company for the renewal of
their charter, twelve hundred thousand pounds by annuities, one million from the sinking fund,
six-and-thirty thousand pounds from the coinage, and six hundred thousand pounds by a lottery--an
expedient which for some time had been annually repeated; and which, in a great measure, contributed
to debauch the morals of the public, by introducing a spirit of gaming, destructive of all
industry and virtue.

PROJECTED INVASION OF GREAT BRITAIN.

The dissensions of the British parliament were suddenly suspended by an event that seemed to
unite both parties in the prosecution of the same measures. This was the intelligence of an
intended invasion. By the parliamentary disputes, the loud clamours, and the general dissatisfaction
of the people in Great Britain, the French ministry were persuaded that the nation was ripe
for a revolt. This belief was corroborated by the assertions of their emissaries in different
parts of Great Britain and Ireland. These were papists and Jacobites of strong prejudices and
warm imaginations, who saw things through the medium of passion and party, and spoke rather
from extravagant zeal than from sober conviction. They gave the court of Versailles to understand,
that if the chevalier de St. George, or his eldest son Charles Edward, should appear at the
head of a French army in Great Britain, a revolution would instantly follow in his favour.
This intimation was agreeable to cardinal de Tencin, who, since the death of Fleury, had borne
a share in the administration of France. He was of a violent enterprising temper. He had been
recommended to the purple by the chevalier de St. George, and was seemingly attached to the
Stuart family. His ambition was flattered with the prospect of giving a king to Great Britain;
of performing such eminent service to his benefactor, and of restoring to the throne of their
ancestors a family connected by the ties of blood with all the greatest princes of Europe.
The ministry of France foresaw, that even if this aim should miscarry, a descent upon Great
Britain would make a considerable diversion from the continent in favour of France, and embroil
and embarrass his Britannic majesty, who was the chief support of the house of Austria, and
all its allies. Actuated by these motives, he concerted measures with the chevalier de St.
George at Rome, who being too much advanced in years to engage personally in such an expedition,
agreed to delegate his pretensions and authority to his son Charles, a youth of promising talents,
sage, secret, brave, and enterprising, amiable in his person, grave, and even reserved in his
deportment. He approved himself in the sequel composed and moderate in success, wonderfully
firm in adversity; and though tenderly nursed in all the delights of an effeminate country,
and gentle climate, patient almost beyond belief of cold, hunger, and fatigue.

Count Saxe was appointed by the French king commander of the troops designed for this expedition,
which amounted to fifteen thousand men. They began their march to Picardy, and a great number
of vessels was assembled for their embarkation at Dunkirk, Calais, and Boulogne. It was determined
that they should be landed in Kent, under convoy of a strong squadron equipped at Brest, and
commanded by monsieur de Roquefeuille, an officer of experience and capacity. The chevalier
de St. George is said to have required the personal service of the duke of Ormond, who excused
himself on account of his advanced age; be that as it will, prince Charles departed from Rome
about the end of December, in the disguise of a Spanish courier, attended by one servant only,
and furnished with passports by cardinal Aquaviva. He travelled through Tuscany to Genoa, from
whence he proceeded to Savona, where he embarked for Antibes, and prosecuting his journey to
Paris, was indulged with a private audience of the French king; then he set out incognito for
the coast of Picardy. The British ministry being apprized of his arrival in France, at once
comprehended the destination of the armaments prepared at Brest and Boulogne. Mr. Thompson,
the English resident at Paris, received orders to make a remonstrance to the French ministry,
on the violation of those treaties by which the pretender to the crown of Great Britain was
excluded from the territories of France. But he was given to understand, that his most christian,
majesty would not explain himself on that subject, until the king of England should have given
satisfaction on the repeated complaints which had been made to him, touching the infractions
of those very treaties which had been so often violated by his orders. In the month of January,
M. de Roquefeuille sailed from Brest, directing his course up the English channel, with twenty
ships of war. They were immediately discovered by an English cruiser, which ran into Plymouth;
and the intelligence was conveyed by land to the board of admiralty. Sir John Norris was forthwith
ordered to take the command of the squadron at Spithead, with which he sailed round to the
Downs, where he was joined by some ships of the line from Chatham, and then he found himself
at the head of a squadron considerably stronger than that of the enemy.

The KINGDOM PUT IN A STATE OF DEFENCE.

Several regiments marched to the southern coast of England; all governors and commanders were
ordered to repair immediately to their respective posts; the forts at the mouths of the Thames
and Medway were put in a posture of defence; and directions were issued to assemble the Kentish
militia, to defend the coast in case of an invasion. On the fifteenth day of February, the
king sent a message to both houses of parliament, intimating the arrival of the pretender's
son in France, the preparations at Dunkirk, and the appearance of a French fleet in the English
channel. They joined in an address, declaring their indignation and abhorrence of the design
formed in favour of a popish pretender; and assuring his majesty, that they would, with the
warmest zeal and unanimity, take such measures as would enable him to frustrate and defeat
so desperate and insolent an attempt. Addresses of the same kind were presented by the city
of London, both universities, the principal towns of Great Britain, the clergy, the dissenting
ministers, the quakers, and almost all the corporations and communities of the kingdom. A requisition
was made of the six thousand auxiliaries, which the states-general were by treaty obliged to
furnish on such occasions; and these were granted with great alacrity and expedition. The earl
of Stair, forgetting his wrongs, took this opportunity of offering his services to government,
and was re-invested with the chief command of the forces in Great Britain. His example was
followed by several noblemen of the first rank. The duke of Montague was permitted to raise
a regiment of horse; and orders were sent to bring over six thousand of the British troops
from Flanders, in case the invasion should actually take place. His majesty was, in another
address from parliament, exhorted to augment his forces by sea and land; the habeas corpus
act was suspended for six months, and several persons of distinction were apprehended on suspicion
of treasonable practices; a proclamation was issued for putting the laws in execution against
papists and nonjurors, who were commanded to retire ten miles from London; and every precaution
was taken which seemed necessary for the preservation of the public tranquillity.

THE DESIGN OF THE FRENCH DEFEATED.

Meanwhile the French court proceeded with their preparations at Boulogne and Dunkirk, under
the eye of the young pretender; and seven thousand men were actually embarked. M. de Roquefeuille
sailed up the channel as far as Dungeness, a promontory on the coast of Kent, after having
detached M. de Barreil, with five ships to hasten the embarkation at Dunkirk. While the French
admiral anchored off Dungeness, he perceived, on the twenty-fourth day of February, the British
fleet, under sir John Norris, doubling the South-Foreland from the Downs; and though the wind
was against him, taking the opportunity of the tide to come up and engage the French squadron.
Roquefeuille, who little expected such a visit, could not be altogether composed, considering
the great superiority of his enemies; but the tide failing, the English admiral was obliged
to anchor two leagues short of the enemy. In this interval, M. de Roquefeuille called a council
of war, in which it was determined to avoid an engagement, weigh anchor at sun-set, and make
the best of their way to the place from whence they had sot sail. This resolution was favoured
by a very hard gale of wind, which began to blow from the north-east, and carried them down
the channel with incredible expedition. But the same storm which, in all probability, saved
their fleet from destruction, utterly disconcerted the design of invading England. A great
number of their transports was driven ashore and destroyed, and the rest were so damaged that
they could not be speedily repaired. The English were now masters at sea, and their coast was
so well guarded, that the enterprise could not be prosecuted with any probability of success.
The French generals nominated to serve in this expedition returned to Paris, and the young
pretender resolved to wait a more favourable opportunity. In the meantime he remained in Paris,
or that neighbourhood, incognito, and almost totally neglected by the court of France. Finding
himself in this disagreeable situation, and being visited by John Murray of Broughton, who
magnified the power of his friends in Great Britain, he resolved to make some bold effort,
even without the assistance of Louis, in whose sincerity he had no faith, and forthwith took
proper measures to obtain exact information touching the number, inclinations, and influence
of his father's adherents in England and Scotland. The French king no longer preserved any
measures with the court of London; the British resident at Paris was given to understand, that
a declaration of war must ensue; and this was actually published on the twentieth day of March.
The king of Great Britain was taxed with having dissuaded the court of Vienna from entertaining
any thoughts of an accommodation; with having infringed the convention of Hanover; with having
exercised piracy upon the subjects of France, and with having blocked up the harbour of Toulon.
On the thirty-first day of March, a like denunciation of war against France was published at
London amidst the acclamations of the people.

{1744}

BILL AGAINST THOSE WHO SHOULD CORRESPOND WITH THE PRETENDER'S SONS.

The commons of England, in order to evince their loyalty, brought in a bill, denouncing the
penalties of high treason against those who should maintain correspondence with the sons of
the pretender. In the upper house, lord Hardwicke, the chancellor, moved, that a clause should
be inserted, extending the crime of treason to the posterity of the offenders, during the lives
of the pretender's sons. The motion, which was supported by the whole strength of the ministry,
produced a warm debate, in which the duke of Bedford, the earl of Chesterfield, the lords Talbot
and Horvey, argued against it in the most pathetic manner, as an illiberal expedient, contrary
to the dictates of humanity, the law of nature, the rules of common justice, and the precepts
of religion; an expedient that would involve the innocent with the guilty, and tend to the
augmentation of ministerial power, for which purpose it was undoubtedly calculated. Notwithstanding
these suggestions, the clause was carried in the affirmative, and the bill sent back to the
commons, where the amendment was vigorously opposed by lord Strange, lord Guernsey, Mr. W.
Pitt, and other members, by whom the original bill had been countenanced; * the majority, however,
declared for the amendment, and the bill obtained the royal assent. The session of parliament
was closed in May, when the king told them that the French had made vast preparations on the
side of the Netherlands; and that the states-general had agreed to furnish the succours stipulated
by treaties.

     * The opposition had sustained a heavy blow in the death of
     the duke of Argyle, a nobleman of shining qualifications for
     the senate and the field, whose character would have been
     still more illustrious, had not some parts of his conduct
     subjected him to the suspicion of selfishness and
     inconstancy. He was succeeded in that title by his brother,
     Archibald earl of Hay.

NAVAL ENGAGEMENT OFF TOULON.

By this time an action had happened in the Mediterranean, between the British fleet commanded
by admiral Matthews, and the combined squadrons of France and Spain, which had been for some
time blocked up in the harbour of Toulon. On the ninth day of February they were perceived
standing out of the road, to the number of four-and-thirty sail; the English admiral immediately
weighed from Hieres bay; and on the eleventh, part of the fleets engaged. Matthews attacked
the Spanish admiral, Don Navarro, whose ship, the Real, was a first rate, mounted with above
an hundred guns. Rear-admiral Rowley singled out M. de Court, who commanded the French squadron;
and a very few captains followed the example of their commanders; but vice-admiral Lestock,
with his whole division, remained at a great distance astern; and several captains, who were
immediately under the eye of Matthews, behaved in such a manner as reflected disgrace upon
their country. The whole transaction was conducted without order or deliberation. The French
and Spaniards would have willingly avoided an engagement, as the British squadron was superior
to them in strength and number. M. de Court, therefore, made the best of his way towards the
Straits' mouth, probably with intention to join the Brest squadron; but he had orders to protect
the Spanish fleet; and as they sailed heavily, he was obliged to wait for them, at the hazard
of maintaining a battle with the English. Thus circumstanced, he made sail and lay-to by turns;
so that the British admiral could not engage them in proper order; and as they outsailed his
ships, he began to fear they would escape him altogether should he wait for vice-admiral Lestock,
who was so far astern. Under this apprehension he made the signal for engaging, while that
for the line of battle was still displayed; and this inconsistency naturally introduced confusion.
The fight was maintained with great vivacity by the few who engaged. The Real being quite disabled,
and lying like a wreck upon the water, Mr. Matthews sent a fire-ship to destroy her; but the
expedient did not take effect. The ship ordered to cover this machine did not obey the signal;
so that the captain of the fire-ship was exposed to the whole fire of the enemy. Nevertheless
he continued to advance until he found the vessel sinking; and being within a few yards of
the Real, he set fire to the fusees. The ship was immediately in flames, in the midst of which
he and his lieutenant, with twelve men, perished. This was likewise the fate of the Spanish
launch, which had been manned with fifty sailors to prevent the fire-ship from running on board
the Real. One ship of the line belonging to the Spanish squadron, struck to captain Hawke,
who sent a lieutenant to take possession of her; she was afterwards retaken by the French squadron;
but was found so disabled that they left her deserted, and she was next day burned by order
of admiral Matthews. At night the action ceased; and the admiral found his own ship so much
damaged, that he moved his flag into another. Captain Cornwall fell in the engagement, after
having exhibited a remarkable proof of courage and intrepidity; but the loss of men was very
inconsiderable. Next day the enemy appeared to leeward, and the admiral gave chase till night,
when he brought to, that he might be joined by the ships astern. They were perceived again
on the thirteenth at a considerable distance, and pursued till the evening. In the morning
of the fourteenth, twenty sail of them were seen distinctly, and Lestock with his division
had gained ground of them considerably by noon; but admiral Matthews displayed the signal for
leaving off chase, and bore away for Port Mahon, to repair the damage he had sustained. Meanwhile
the combined squadrons continued their course towards the coast of Spain. M. de Court, with
his division, anchored in the road of Alicant; and Don Navarro sailed into the harbour of Carthagena.
Admiral Matthews, on his arrival at Minorca, accused Lestock of having misbehaved on the day
of action; suspended him from his office, and sent him prisoner to England, where, in his turn,
he accused his accuser. Long before the engagement, these two officers had expressed the most
virulent resentment against each other. Matthews was brave, open, and undisguised; but proud,
imperious, and precipitate. Lestock had signalized his courage on many occasions, and perfectly
understood the whole discipline of the navy; but he was cool, cunning, and vindictive. He had
been treated superciliously by Matthews, and in revenge took advantage of his errors and precipitation.
To gratify this passion, he betrayed the interest and glory of his country; for it is not to
be doubted, but that he might have come up in time to engage; and, in that case, the fleets
of France and Spain would, in all likelihood, have been destroyed; but he intrenched himself
within the punctilios of discipline, and saw with pleasure his antagonist expose himself to
the hazard of death, ruin, and disgrace. Matthews himself, in the sequel, sacrificed his duty
to his resentment, in restraining Lestock from pursuing and attacking the combined squadrons
on the third day after the engagement, when they appeared disabled and in manifest disorder,
and would have fallen an easy prey had they been vigorously attacked. One can hardly, without
indignation, reflect upon these instances in which a community has so severely suffered from
the personal animosity of individuals. The miscarriage off Toulon became the subject of a parliamentary
inquiry in England. The commons, in an address to the throne, desired that a court-martial
might be appointed to try the delinquents. By this time Lestock had accused Matthews, and all
the captains of his division who misbehaved on the day of battle. The court-martial was constituted,
and proceeded to trial. Several commanders of ships were cashiered; vice-admiral Lestock was
honourably acquitted, and admiral Matthews rendered incapable of serving for the future in
his majesty's navy. All the world knew that Lestock kept aloof, and that Matthews rushed into
the hottest part of the engagement. Yet the former triumphed on his trial, and the latter narrowly
escaped the sentence of death for cowardice and misconduct. Such decisions are not to be accounted
for, except from prejudice and faction. The war in Germany, which had been almost extinguished
in the last campaign, began to revive, and raged with redoubled violence. The emperor had solicited
the mediation of his Britannic majesty, for compromising the differences between him and the
court of Vienna. Prince William of Hesse-Cassel had conferred with the king of England on this
subject; and a negotiation was begun at Hanau. The emperor offered to dismiss the French auxiliaries,
provided the Austrians would evacuate his hereditary dominions. Nay, prince William and lord
Carteret, as plenipotentiaries, actually agreed to preliminaries, by which his Imperial majesty
engaged to renounce the alliance of France, and throw himself into the arms of the maritime
powers; to resign all pretensions to the succession of the house of Austria; and to revive
the vote of Bohemia in the electoral college, on condition of his being re-established in the
possession of his dominions, recognised as emperor by the queen of Hungary, and accommodated
with a monthly subsidy for his maintenance, as his own territories were exhausted and impoverished
by the war. By a separate article, the king of Great Britain promised to furnish him with three
hundred thousand crowns, and to interpose his good offices with the queen of Hungary, that
his electoral dominions should be favourably treated. These preliminaries, though settled,
were not signed. The court of Vienna was unwilling to part with their conquests in Bavaria
and the Upper Palatinate. The queen trusted too much to the valour of her troops, and the wealth
of her allies, to listen to such terms of accommodation; and whatever arguments were used with
the king of Great Britain, certain it is the negotiation wras dropped, on pretence that the
articles were disapproved by the ministry of England. The emperor, environed with distress,
renewed his application to the king of Great Britain; and even declared that he would refer
his cause to the determination of the maritime powers; but all his advances were discountenanced;
and the treaty of Worms dispelled all hope of accommodation. In this manner did the British
ministry reject the fairest opportunity that could possibly occur of terminating the war in
Germany with honour and advantage, and of freeing their country from that insufferable burden
of expense under which she groaned.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

TREATY OF FRANCKFORT.

The inflexibility of the house of Austria, and its chief ally, proved serviceable to the emperor.
The forlorn situation of this unfortunate prince excited the compassion of divers princes;
they resented the insolence with which the head of the empire had been treated by the court
of Vienna; and they were alarmed at the increasing power of a family noted for pride, tyranny,
and ambition. These considerations gave rise to the treaty of Franckfort, concluded in May
between the emperor, the king of Prussia, the king of Sweden as landgrave of Hesse-Cassel,
and the elector palatine. They engaged to preserve the constitution of the empire, according
to the treaty of Westphalia, and to support the emperor in his rank and dignity. They agreed
to employ their good offices with the queen of Hungary, that she might be induced to acknowledge
the emperor, to restore his hereditary dominions, and give up the archives of the empire that
were in her possession. They guaranteed to each other their respective territories; the disputes
about the succession of the late emperor they referred to the decision of the states of the
empire; they promised to assist one another in case of being attacked; and they invited the
king of Poland, the elector of Cologn, and the bishop of Liege, to accede to this treaty. Such
was the confederacy that broke all the measures which had been concerted between the king of
Great Britain and her Hungarian majesty, for the operations of the campaign. In the meantime,
the French king declared war against this princess, on pretence that she was obstinately deaf
to all terms of accommodation, and determined to carry the war into the territories of France.
In her counter-declaration, she taxed Louis with having infringed the most solemn engagement,
with respect to the pragmatic sanction; with having spirited up different pretenders to lay
claim to the succession of the late emperor; with having endeavoured to instigate the common
enemy of Christendom against her; and with having acted the incendiary in the north of Europe,
that the czarina might be prevented from assisting the house of Austria, while his numerous
armies overspread the empire and desolated her hereditary countries. These recriminations were
literally true. The houses of Bourbon and Austria have, for many centuries, been the common
disturbers and plagues of Europe.

PROGRESS OF THE FRENCH KING IN THE NETHERLANDS

The king of France, though in himself pacific and unenterprising, was stimulated by his ministry
to taste the glory of conquest in the Netherlands, where he had assembled an army of one hundred
and twenty thousand men, provided with a very formidable train of artillery. The chief command
was vested in the mareschal count de Saxe, who possessed great military talents, and proved
to be one of the most fortunate generals of the age in which he lived. The allied forces, consisting
of English, Hanoverians, Dutch, and Austrians, to the number of seventy thousand effective
men, were in the month of May assembled in the neighbourhood of Brussels, from whence they
marched towards Oudenarde, and posted themselves behind the Schelde, being unable to retard
the progress of the enemy. The French monarch, attended by his favourite ladies, with all the
pomp of eastern luxury, arrived at Lisle on the twelfth day of the same month; and in the adjacent
plain reviewed his army. The states-general, alarmed at his preparations, had, in a conference
with his ambassador at the Hague, expressed their apprehensions, and entreated his most christian
majesty would desist from his design of attacking their barrier. Their remonstrances having
proved ineffectual, they now sent a minister to wait upon that monarch, to enforce their former
representations, and repeat their entreaties; but no regard was paid to his request. The French
king told him, he was determined to prosecute the war with vigour, as his moderation hitherto
had served to no other purpose but that of rendering his enemies more intractable. Accordingly,
his troops invested Menin, which was in seven days surrendered upon capitulation. Ypres, Fort
Knocke, and Furnes, underwent the same fate; and on the twenty-ninth day of June the king of
France entered Dunkirk in triumph.

PRINCE CHARLES OF LORRAINE PASSES THE RHINE.

He had taken such precautions for the defence of Alsace, which was guarded by considerable
armies under the command of Coigny and Seckendorf, that he thought he had nothing to fear from
the Austrians in that quarter; besides, he had received secret assurances that the king of
Prussia would declare for the emperor; so that he resolved to pursue his conquests in the Netherlands.
But all his measures were defeated by the activity of prince Charles of Lorraine, and his officers,
who found means to pass the Rhine, and oblige the French and Bavarian generals to retire to
Lampertheim, that they might cover Strasburgh. The Austrians made themselves masters of Haguenau
and Saverne; they secured the passes of Lorraine; and laid all the country of Lower Alsace
under contribution. The king of France was no sooner apprized of the prince's having passed
the Rhine and penetrated into this province, than he sent off a detachment of thirty thousand
men from his army in Flanders, to reinforce that under the mareschal de Coigny; and he himself
began his journey from the Rhine, that he might in person check the progress of the enemy;
but this design was anticipated by a severe distemper that overtook him at Mentz in Lorraine.
The physicians despaired of his life. The queen, with her children, and all the princes of
the blood, hastened from Versailles to pay the last duties to their dying sovereign, who, as
a true penitent, dismissed his concubines, and began to prepare himself for death; yet the
strength of his constitution triumphed over the fever, and his recovery was celebrated all
over his dominions with uncommon marks of joy and affection.

In the meantime the schemes of the Austrian general were frustrated by the king of Prussia,
who, in the month of August, entered the electorate of Saxony at the head of a numerous army.
There he declared, in a public manifesto, that his aims were only to re-establish the peace
of the empire, and to support the dignity of its head. He assured the inhabitants that they
might depend upon his protection, in case they should remain quiet; but threatened them with
fire and sword should they presume to oppose his arms. In a rescript, addressed to his ministers
at foreign courts, he accused the queen of Hungary of obstinacy, in refusing to acknowledge
the emperor, and restore his hereditary dominions; he said, he had engaged in the league of
Franckfort, to hinder the head of the empire from being oppressed; that he had no intention
to violate the peace of Breslau, or enter as a principal into this war; he affirmed, that his
design was to act as auxiliary to the emperor, and establish the quiet of Germany. He penetrated
into Bohemia, and undertook the siege of Prague, the governor of which surrendered himself
and his garrison prisoners of war on the sixteenth day of September. He afterwards reduced
Tabor, Bodweis, and Teyn, and in a word subdued the greatest part of the kingdom; the Austrian
forces in that country being in no condition to stop his progress. Nevertheless, he was soon
obliged to relinquish his conquests. Prince Charles of Lorraine was recalled from Alsace, and
repassed the Rhine in the face of the French army, commanded by the mareschals de Coigny, Noailles,
and Belleisle. Then he marched to the Danube, laid the Upper Palatine under contribution, and
entering Bohemia, joined the troops under Bathiani at Merotiz. The king of Poland elector of
Saxony, at this juncture declared in favour of her Hungarian majesty. A convention for the
mutual guarantee of their dominions, had been signed between those two powers in December;
and now prince Charles of Lorraine was reinforced by twenty thousand Saxon troops, under the
conduct of the duke of Saxe-Wessenfels. The combined army was superior to that of his Prussian
majesty, whom they resolved to engage. But he retired before them, and having evacuated all
the places he had garrisoned in Bohemia, retreated with precipitation into Silesia. There his
troops were put into winter-quarters; and he himself returned to Berlin, extremely mortified
at the issue of the campaign.

CAMPAIGN IN BAVARIA AND FLANDERS.

During these transactions, count Seckendorf marched into Bavaria at the head of a strong army,
drove the Austrians out of that electorate, and the emperor regained possession of Munich,
his capital, on the twenty-second day of October. In August the French army passed the Rhine
at Fort-Louis, and invested the strong and important city of Fribourg, defended by general
Demnitz, at the head of nine thousand veterans. The king of France arrived in the camp on the
eleventh day of October; and the siege was carried on with uncommon vigour. The Austrian governor
made incredible efforts in the defence of the place, which he maintained until it was reduced
to a heap of ruins, and one-half of the garrison destroyed. At length, however, they were obliged
to surrender themselves prisoners of war, after the trenches had been open five-and-forty days,
during which they had killed above fifteen thousand of the besiegers. With this conquest the
French king closed the campaign, and his army was cantoned along the Rhine, under the inspection
of the count de Maillebois. By the detachments drawn from the French army in Flanders, count
Saxe had found himself considerably weaker than the confederates; he threw up strong intrenchments
behind the Lys, where he remained on the defensive, until he was reinforced by count d'Clermont,
who commanded a separate body on the side of Newport. The allies, to the number of seventy
thousand, passed the Schelde, and advanced towards Helchin; but the enemy being so advantageously
posted, that they could not attack him with any prospect of advantage, they filed on in sight
of Tournay; and on the eighth day of August encamped in the plains of Lisle, in hope of drawing
count Saxe from the situation in which he was so strongly fortified. Here they foraged for
several days, and laid the open country under contribution; however, they made no attempt on
the place itself, which in all probability would have fallen into their hands had they invested
it at their first approach; for then there was no other garrison but two or three battalions
of militia; but count Saxe soon threw in a considerable reinforcement. The allies were unprovided
with a train of battering cannon; and their commanders would not deviate from the usual form
of war. Besides, they were divided in their opinions, and despised one another. General Wade,
who commanded the English and Hanoverians, was a vain weak man, without confidence, weight,
or authority; and the Austrian general, the duke d'Aremberg, was a proud rapacious glutton,
devoid of talents and sentiment. After having remained for some time in sight of Lisle, and
made a general forage without molestation, they retired to their former camp on the Schelde,
from whence they soon marched into winter-quarters. Count Saxe at length quitted his lines;
and by way of retaliation, sent out detachments to ravage the Low-countries, to the very gates
of Ghent and Bruges. The conduct of the allied generals was severely censured in England, ridiculed
in France, not only in private conversation, but also on their public theatres, where it became
the subject of farces and pantomimes.

The campaign in Italy produced divers vicissitudes of fortune. The king of Naples having assembled
an army, joined count Gages, and published a manifesto in vindication of his conduct, which
was a direct violation of the neutrality he had promised to observe. He maintained, that his
moderation had been undervalued by the courts of London and Vienna; that his frontiers were
threatened with the calamities of war; and that the queen of Hungary made no secret of her
intention to invade his dominions. This charge was not without foundation. The emissaries of
the house of Austria endeavoured to excite a rebellion in Naples, which prince Lobkowitz had
orders to favour by an invasion. This general was encamped at Monte Rotundo, in the neighbourhood
of Rome, when, in the month of June, the confederates advanced to Velletri. While the two armies
remained in sight of each other, prince Lobkowitz detached a strong body of forces, under count
Soro and general Gorani, who made an irruption into the province of Abruzzo, and took the city
of Aquilla, where they distributed a manifesto, in which the queen of Hungary exhorted the
Neapolitans to shake off the Spanish yoke, and submit again to the house of Austria. This step,
however, produced little or no effect; and the Austrian detachment retired at the approach
of the duke of Vieuville, with a superior number of forces. In August, count Brown, at the
head of an Austrian detachment, surprised Velletri in the night; and the king of the Two Sicilies,
with the duke of Modena, were in the utmost danger of being taken. They escaped by a postern
with great difficulty, and repaired to the quarters of count Gages, who performed the part
of a great general on this occasion. He rallied the fugitives, dispelled the panic and confusion
which had begun to prevail in his camp, and made a disposition for cutting off the retreat
of the Austrians. Count Brown, finding himself in danger of being surrounded, thought proper
to secure his retreat, which he effected with great art and gallantry, carrying off a prodigious
booty. Three thousand Spaniards are said to have fallen in this action; and eight hundred men
were taken, with some standards and colours. Count Mariani, a Neapolitan general, was among
the prisoners. The Austrians lost about six hundred men; and general Novati fell into the hands
of the enemy; but the exploit produced no consequence of importance. The heats of Autumn proved
so fatal to the Austrians, who were not accustomed to the climate, that prince Lobkowitz saw
his army mouldering away, without any possibility of its being recruited; besides, the country
was so drained that he could no longer procure subsistence. Impelled by these considerations,
he meditated a retreat. On the eleventh day of November, he decamped from Faiola, marched under
the walls of Rome, passed the Tiber at Ponte Mole, formerly known by the name of Pons Milvius,
which he had just time to break down behind him, when the vanguard of the Spaniards and Neapolitans
appeared. Part of his rear-guard, however, was taken, with count Soro who commanded it, at
Nocero; and his army suffered greatly by desertion. Nevertheless, he continued his retreat
with equal skill and expedition, passed the mountains of Gubio, and by the way of Viterbo reached
the Bolognese. The pope was altogether passive. In the beginning of the campaign he had caressed
Lobkowitz; and now he received the king of the Two Sicilies with marks of the warmest affection.
That prince having visited the chief curiosities of Rome, returned to Naples, leaving part
of his troops under the command of count Gages.

BATTLE OF CONI.

Fortune likewise favoured his brother Don Philip in Savoy and Piedmont. He was, early in the
season, joined at Antibes by the French army under the conduct of the prince of Conti. In the
latter end of March, the combined forces passed the Var, reduced the castle of Aspremont, and
entered the city of Nice without opposition. In April, they attacked the king of Sardinia,
who, with twenty thousand men, was strongly intrenched among the mountains of Villa-Franca.
The action was obstinate and bloody; but their numbers and perseverance prevailed. He was obliged
to abandon his posts, and embark on board of the British squadron, which transported him and
his troops to Vado. The intention of Don Philip was to penetrate through the territories of
Genoa into the Milanese; but admiral Matthews, who hovered with a strong squadron on that coast,
sent a message to the republic, declaring, that should the combined army be suffered to pass
through her dominions, the king of Great Britain would consider such a step as a breach of
their neutrality. The senate, intimidated by this intimation, entreated the princes to desist
from their design, and they resolved to choose another route. They defiled towards Piedmont,
and assaulted the strong post of Chateau-Dauphiné, defended by the king of Sardinia in person.
After a desperate attack, in which they lost four thousand men, the place was taken; the garrison
of Demont surrendered at discretion, and the whole country of Piedmont was laid under contribution.
His Sardinian majesty was not in a condition to hazard a battle; and, therefore, posted himself
at Saluzzes, in order to cover his capital. The combined army advanced to the strong and important
town of Coni, which was invested in the beginning of September, Baron Leutrum, the governor,
made an obstinate defence, and the situation of the place was such as rendered the siege difficult,
tedious, and bloody. The king of Sardinia being reinforced by ten thousand Austrians, under
general Pallavicini, advanced to its relief, and a battle ensued. The action was maintained
with great vigour on both sides till night, when his majesty finding it impracticable to force
the enemy's intrenchments, retired in good order to his camp at Murasso, He afterwards found
means to throw a reinforcement and supply of provisions into Coni; and the heavy rains that
fell at this period, not only retarded but even dispirited the besiegers. Nevertheless, the
princes persisted in their design, notwithstanding a dearth of provisions, and the approach
of winter, till the latter end of November, when the chevalier de Soto entered the place with
six hundred fresh men. This incident was no sooner known than the princes abandoned their enterprise;
and leaving their sick and wounded to the mercy of the Piedmontese, marched back to Demont.
Having dismantled the fortifications of this place, they retreated with great precipitation
to Dauphiné, and were dreadfully harassed by the Vaudois and light troops in the service of
his Sardinian majesty, who now again saw himself in possession of Piedmont. The French troops
were quartered in Dauphiné; but Don Philip still maintained his footing in Savoy, the inhabitants
of which he fleeced without mercy.

RETURN OF COMMODORE ANSON.

After the action at Toulon, nothing of consequence was achieved by the British squadron in
the Mediterranean; and indeed the naval power of Great Britain was, during the summer, quite
inactive. In the month of June, commodore Anson returned from his voyage of three years and
nine months, in which he had surrounded the terraqueous globe. We have formerly observed, that
he sailed with a small squadron to the South-Sea, in order to annoy the Spanish settlements
of Chili and Peru. Two of his large ships having been separated from him in a storm before
he weathered Cape Horn, had put in at Rio de Janeiro, on the coast of Brazil, from whence they
returned to Europe. A frigate commanded by captain Cheap, was shipwrecked on a desolate island
in the South-Sea. Mr. Anson having undergone a dreadful tempest, which dispersed his fleet,
arrived at the island of Juan Fernandez, where he was joined by the Gloucester, a ship of the
line, a sloop, and a pink loaded with provisions. These were the remains of his squadron. He
made prize of several vessels; took and burned the little town of Payta; set sail from the
coast of Mexico for the Philippine Isles; and in this passage the Gloucester was abandoned
and sunk: the other vessels had been destroyed for want of men to navigate them, so that nothing
now remained but the commodore's own ship, the Centurion, and that but very indifferently manned;
for the crews had been horribly thinned by sickness. Incredible were the hardships and misery
they sustained from the shattered condition of the ships, and the scorbutic disorder, when
they reached the plentiful island of Tinian, where they were supplied with the necessary refreshments.
Thence they prosecuted their voyage to the river of Canton in China, where the commodore ordered
the ship to be sheathed, and found means to procure a reinforcement of sailors. The chief object
of his attention was the rich annual ship that sails between Acapulco, in Mexico, and Manilla,
one of the Philippine islands. In hopes of intercepting her, he set sail from Canton, and steered
his course back to the straits of Manilla, where she actually fell into his hands, after a
short but vigorous engagement. The prize was called Neustra Signora de Cabodonga, mounted with
forty guns, manned with six hundred sailors, and loaded with treasure and effects to the value
of three hundred and thirteen thousand pounds sterling; with this windfall he returned to Canton;
from whence he proceeded to the Cape of Good Hope, and prosecuted his voyage to England, where
he arrived in safety. Though this fortunate commander enriched himself by an occurrence that
may be termed almost accidental, the British nation was not indemnified for the expense of
the expedition; and the original design was entirely defeated. Had the Manilla ship escaped
the vigilance of the English commodore, he might have been, on his return to England, laid
aside as a superannuated captain, and died in obscurity, but his great wealth invested him
with considerable influence, and added lustre to his talents.

He soon became the oracle which was consulted in all naval deliberations; and the king raised
him to the dignity of a peerage. In July, sir John Balchen, an admiral of approved valour and
great experience, sailed from Spithead with a strong squadron, in quest of an opportunity to
attack the French fleet at Brest, under the command of M. de Rochambault. In the bay of Biscay
he was overtaken by a violent storm, that dispersed the ships, and drove them up the English
channel. Admiral Stewart, with the greater part of them, arrived at Plymouth; but sir John
Balchen's own ship, the Victory, which was counted the most beautiful first-rate in the world,
foundered at sea; and this brave commander perished, with all his officers, volunteers, and
crew, amounting to eleven hundred choice seamen. On the fourth day of October, after the siege
of Fribourg, the mareschal duke de Belleisle, and his brother, happened in their way to Berlin
to halt at a village in the forest of Hartz, dependent on the electorate of Hanover. There
they were apprehended by the bailiff of the place, and conducted as prisoners to Osterode;
from whence they were removed to Stade on the Elbe, where they embarked for England. They resided
at Windsor till the following year, when they were allowed the benefit of the cartel which
had been established between Great Britain and France at Franckfort, and released accordingly,
after they had been treated by the British nobility with that respect and hospitality which
was due to their rank and merit.*

     * Mr. Pope, the celebrated poet, died in the month of June.
     In October, the old duchess of Marlborough resigned her
     breath, in the eighty-fifth year of her age, immensely rich,
     and very little regretted, either by her own family or the
     world in general.

REVOLUTION IN THE BRITISH MINISTRY.

The dissensions in the British cabinet were now ripened into another revolution in the ministry.
Lord Carteret, who was by this time earl Granville, in consequence of his mother's death, had
engrossed the royal favour so much, that the duke of Newcastle and his brother are said to
have taken umbrage at his influence and greatness. He had incurred the resentment of those
who were distinguished by the appellation of patriots, and entirely forfeited his popularity.
The two brothers were very powerful by their parliamentary interest; they knew their own strength,
and engaged in a political alliance with the leading men in the opposition, against the prime
minister and his measures. This coalition was dignified with the epithet of "The Broad Bottom,"
as if it had been established on a true constitutional foundation, comprehending individuals
of every class, without distinction of party. The appellation, however, which they assumed
was afterwards converted into a term of derision. The earl of Granville perceiving the gathering
storm and foreseeing the impossibility of withstanding such an opposition in parliament, wisely
avoided the impending danger and disgrace, by a voluntary resignation of his employments. The
earl of Harrington succeeded him as secretary of state. The duke of Bedford was appointed first
lord of the admiralty, and the earl of Chesterfield declared lord-lieutenant of Ireland. The
lords Gower and Cobham were re-established in the offices they had resigned; Mr. Lyttelton
was admitted as a commissioner of the treasury; even sir John Hinde Cotton accepted of a place
at court; and sir John Phillips sat at the board of trade and plantations, though he soon renounced
this employment. This was rather a change of men than of measures, and turned out to the ease
and advantage of the sovereign; for his views were no longer thwarted by an obstinate opposition
in parliament. The session was opened on the twenty-eighth day of November, in the usual manner.
The commons unanimously granted about six millions and an half for the service of the ensuing
year, to be raised by the land, the malt, and the salt taxes, the sinking fund, and an additional
duty on wines. In January, the earl of Chesterfield set out for the Hague, with the character
of ambassador-extraordinary, to persuade, if possible, the states-general to engage heartily
in the war. About the same time a treaty of quadruple alliance was signed at Warsaw, by the
queen of Hungary, the king of Poland, and the maritime powers. This was a mutual guarantee
of the dominions belonging to the contracting parties; but his Polish majesty was paid for
his concurrence, with an annual subsidy of one hundred and fifty thousand pounds, two-thirds
of which were defrayed by England, and the remainder was disbursed by the United Provinces.*

     * Robert earl of Orford, late prime minister, died in March,
     after having for a very short time enjoyed a pension of four
     thousand pounds granted by the crown, in consideration of
     his past services. Though he had for such a length of time
     directed the application of the public treasure, his
     circumstances were not affluent: he was liberal in his
     disposition, and had such a number of rapacious dependents
     to gratify, that little was left for his own private
     occasions.

{1745}

The business of the British parliament being discussed, the session was closed in the beginning
of May; and, immediately after the prorogation, the king set out for Hanover. The death of
the emperor Charles VII. hich happened in the month of January, had entirely changed the face
of affairs in the empire, and all the princes of Germany were in commotion. The grand-duke
of Tuscany, consort to her Hungarian majesty, was immediately declared a candidate for the
Imperial crown; while his pretensions were warmly opposed by the French king and his allies.
The court of Vienna, taking advantage of the late emperor's death, sent an army to invade Bavaria
in the month of March, under the conduct of general Bathiani, who routed the French and Palatine
troops at Psiffenhoven, took possession of Rain, surrounded and disarmed six thousand Hessians
in the neighbouhood of Ingoldstadt, and drove the Bavarian forces out of the electorate. The
young elector was obliged to abandon his capital, and retire to Augsburgh, where he found himself
in danger of losing all his dominions. In this emergency, he yielded to the earnest solicitations
of the empress his mother, enforced by the advice of his uncle the elector of Cologn, and of
his general count Secken-dorf, who exhorted him to be reconciled to the court of Vienna. A
negotiation was immediately begun at Fuessen; where, in April, the treaty was concluded. The
queen consented to recognise the Imperial dignity, as having been vested in the person of his
father; to acknowledge his mother as empress dowager; to restore his dominions, with all the
fortresses, artillery, stores, and ammunition which she had taken: on the other hand, he renounced
all claim to the succession of her father, and became guarantee of the pragmatic sanction;
he acknowledged the validity of the electoral vote of Bohemia in the person of the queen; engaged
to give his voice for the grand duke at the ensuing election of a king of the Romans. Until
that should be determined, both parties agreed that Ingoldstadt should be garrisoned by neutral
troops; and that Braumau and Schardingen, with all the country lying between the Inn and the
Saltza, should remain in the queen's possession, though without prejudice to the civil government
or the elector's revenue. In the meantime he dismissed the auxiliaries that were in his pay,
and they were permitted to retire without molestation.

The court of Vienna had now secured the votes of all the electors, except those of Brandenburgh
and the Palatinate. Nevertheless, France assembled a powerful army in the neighbourhood of
Franckfort, in order to influence the election. But the Austrian army, commanded by the grand-duke
in person, marched thither from the Danube; and the prince of Conti was obliged to repass the
Rhine at Nordlingen. Then the grand-duke repaired to Franckfort, where on the second day of
September he was, by a majority of voices, declared king of the Romans and emperor of Germany.
Meanwhile the king of Prussia had made great progress in the conquest of Silesia. The campaign
began in January, when the Hungarian insurgents were obliged to retire into Moravia. In the
following month the Prussian general Lehrwald defeated a body of twelve thousand Austrians,
commanded by general Helsrich; the town of Eatisbon was taken by assault; and the king entered
Silesia, in May, at the head of seventy thousand men. Prince Charles of Lorraine, being joined
by the duke of Saxe-Wessenfels and twenty thousand Saxons, penetrated into Silesia by the defiles
of Landshut; and were attacked by his Prussian majesty in the plains of Striegau, near Friedberg.
The battle was maintained from morning till noon, when the Saxons giving way, prince Charles
was obliged to retire with the loss of twelve thousand men, and a great number of colours,
standards, and artillery. This victory, obtained on the fourth day of June, complete as it
was, did not prove decisive; for, though the victor transferred the seat of the war into Bohemia,
and maintained his army by raising contributions in that country, the Austrians resolved to
hazard another engagement. Their aim was to surprise him in his camp at Sohr, which they attacked
on the thirtieth of September, at day-break; but they met with such a warm reception, that
notwithstanding their repeated efforts during the space of four hours, they were repulsed with
considerable damage, and retreated to Jaromire, leaving five thousand killed upon the spot,
besides two thousand that were taken, with many standards, and twenty pieces of cannon. The
loss of this battle was in a great measure owing to the warice of the irregulars, who having
penetrated into the Prussian camp, began to pillage with great eagerness, giving the king an
opportunity to rally his disordered troops, and restore the battle; nevertheless, they retired
with the plunder of his baggage, including his military chest, the officers of his chancery,
his own secretary, and all the papers of his cabinet.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

TREATY OF DRESDEN.--THE GRAND DUKE OF TUSCANY ELECTED EMPEROR.

After this action, his Prussian majesty returned to Berlin and breathed nothing but peace and
moderation. In August he had signed a convention with the king of Great Britain, who became
guarantee of his possessions in Silesia, as yielded by the treaty of Breslau; and he promised
to vote for the grand duke of Tuscany at the election of an emperor. This was intended as the
basis of a more general accommodation. But he now pretended to have received undoubted intelligence
that the king of Poland and the queen of Hungary had agreed to invade Brandenburgh with three
different armies; and that, for this purpose, his Polish majesty had demanded of the czarina
the succours stipulated by treaty between the two crowns. Alarmed, or seemingly alarmed, at
this information, he solicited the maritime powers to fulfil their engagements, and interpose
their good offices with the court of Petersburgh. Yet, far from waiting for the result of these
remonstrances, he made a sudden irruption into Lusatia, took possession of Gorlitz, and obliged
prince Charles of Lorraine to retire before him into Bohemia. Then he entered Leipsic, and
laid Saxony under contribution. The king of Poland, unable to resist the torrent, quitted his
capital and took refuge in Prague. His troops, reinforced by a body of Austrians, were defeated
at Pirna on the fifteenth day of December; and his Prussian majesty became master of Dresden
without further opposition. The king of Poland, thus deprived of his hereditary dominions,
was fain to acquiesce in such terms as the conqueror thought proper to impose; and the treaty
of Dresden was concluded under the mediation of his Britannic majesty. By this convention the
king of Prussia retained all the contributions he had levied in Saxony; and was entitled to
a million of German crowns, to be paid by his Polish majesty at the next fair of Leipsic. He
and the elector palatine consented to acknowledge the grand duke as emperor of Germany; and
this last confirmed to his Prussian majesty certain privileges de non evocando, which had been
granted by the late emperor, with regard to some territories possessed by the king of Prussia,
though not belonging to the electorate of Brandenburgh. Immediately after the ratification
of this treaty, the Prussian troops evacuated Saxony, and the peace of Germany was restored.

THE ALLIES ARE DEFEATED.

Though the French king could not prevent the elevation of the grand duke to the Imperial throne,
he resolved to humble the house of Austria, by making a conquest of the Netherlands. A prodigious
army was there assembled, under the auspices of mareschal count de Saxe; and his most christian
majesty, with the dauphin, arriving in the camp, they invested the strong town of Tournay on
the thirtieth day of April. The Dutch garrison consisted of eight thousand men, commanded by
the old baron Dorth, who made a vigorous defence. The duke of Cumberland assumed the chief
command of the allied army, assembled at Soignes; he was assisted with the advice of the count
Konigsegg, an Austrian general, and the prince of Waldeck, commander of the Dutch forces. Their
army was greatly inferior in number to that of the enemy; nevertheless, they resolved to march
to the relief of Tournay. They accordingly advanced to Leuse; and on the twenty-eight day of
April took post at Maulbre, in sight of the French army, which was encamped on an eminence
from the village of Antonie, to a large wood beyond Vezon, having Fontenoy in their front.
Next day was employed by the allies in driving the enemy from some outposts, and clearing the
defiles through which they were obliged to advance to the attack; while the French completed
their batteries, and made the most formidable preparations for their reception. On the thirtieth
day of April, the duke of Cumberland, having made the proper dispositions, began his march
to the enemy at two o'clock in the morning; a brisk cannonade ensued; and about nine both armies
were engaged. The British infantry drove the French beyond their lines; but the left wing failing
in the attack on the village of Fontenoy, and the cavalry forbearing to advance on the flanks,
they measured back their ground with some disorder, from the prodigious fire of the French
batteries. They rallied, however, and returning to the charge with redoubled ardour, repulsed
the enemy to their camp with great slaughter; but, being wholly unsupported by the other wing,
and exposed both in front and flank to a dreadful fire, which did great execution, the duke
was obliged to make the necessary dispositions for a retreat about three o'clock in the afternoon,
and this was effected in tolerable order. The battle was fought with great obstinacy, and the
carnage on both sides was very considerable. The allies lost about twelve thousand men, including
a good number of officers; among these were lieutenant-general Campbell, and major-general
Ponsonby. The victory cost the French almost an equal number of lives; and no honour was lost
by the vanquished. Had the allies given battle on the preceding day, before the enemy had taken
their measures and received all their reinforcements, they might have succeeded in their endeavour
to relieve Tournay. Although the attack was generally judged rash and precipitate, the British
and Hanoverian troops fought with such intrepidity and perseverance, that if they had been
properly sustained by the Dutch forces, and their flanks covered by the cavalry, the French
in all likelihood would have been obliged to abandon their enterprise. The duke of Cumberland
left his sick and wounded to the humanity of the victors; and retiring to Aeth, encamped in
an advantageous situation at Lessines. The garrison of Tournay, though now deprived of all
hope of succour, maintained the place to the twenty-first day of June, when the governor obtained
an honourable capitulation. After the conquest of this frontier, which was dismantled, the
duke of Cumberland, apprehending the enemy had a design upon Ghent, sent a detachment of four
thousand men to reinforce the garrison of that city; but they fell into an ambuscade at Pas-du-mêle,
and were killed or taken, except a few dragoons that escaped to Ostend; on that very night,
which was the twelfth of June, Ghent was surprised by a detachment of the French army. Then
they invested Ostend, which, though defended by an English garrison, and open to the sea, was,
after a short siege, surrendered by capitulation on the fourteenth day of August Dendermonde,
Oudenarde, Newport, and Aeth, underwent the same fate; while the allied army lay entranced
beyond the canal of Antwerp. The French king having subdued the greatest part of the Austrian
Netherlands, returned to Paris, which he entered in triumph.

THE KING OF SARDINIA IS ALMOST STRIPPED OF HIS DOMINIONS.

The campaign in Italy was unpropitious to the queen of Hungary and the king of Sardinia. Count
Gages passed the Appenines, and entered the state of Lucca; from thence he proceeded by the
eastern coast of Genoa to Lestride-Levante. The junction of the two armies was thus accomplished,
and reinforced with ten thousand Genoese; meanwhile prince Lobkowitz decamped from Modena and
took post at Parma; but he was soon succeeded by count Schuylemberg, and sent to command the
Austrians in Bohemia. The Spaniards entered the Milanese without further opposition. Count
Gages, with thirty thousand men, took possession of Serravalle; and advancing towards Placentia,
obliged the Austrians to retire under the cannon of Tortona; but when don Philip, at the head
of forty thousand troops, made himself master of Acqui, the king of Sardinia and the Austrian
general, unable to stem the torrent, retreated behind the Tanaro. The strong citadel of Tortona
was taken by the Spaniards, who likewise reduced Parma and Placentia; and forcing the passage
of the Tanaro, compelled his Sardinian majesty to take shelter on the other side of the Po.
Then Pavia was won by scalade; and the city of Milan submitted to the infant, though the Austrian
garrison still maintained the citadel; all Piedmont, on both sides of the Po, as far as Turin,
was reduced, and even that capital threatened with a siege; so that by the month of October
the territories belonging to the house of Austria, in Italy, were wholly subdued; and the king
of Sardinia stripped of all his dominions; yet he continued firm and true to his engagements,
and deaf to all proposals of a separate accommodation.

THE ENGLISH TAKE CAPE BRETON

The naval transactions of Great Britain were in the course of this year remarkably spirited.
In the Mediterranean, admiral Rowley had succeeded Matthews in the command; Savona, Genoa,
Final, St. Remo, with Bastia, the capital of Corsica, were bombarded; several Spanish ships
were taken; but he could not prevent the safe arrival of their rich Havannah squadron at Corunna.
Commodore Barnet, in the East Indies, made prize of several French ships richly laden; and
commodore Townshend, in the latitude of Martinico, took about thirty merchant ships belonging
to the enemy, under convoy of four ships of war, two of which were destroyed. The English privateers
likewise met with uncommon success. But the most important achievement was the conquest of
Louisbourg on the isle of Cape Breton, in North America; a place of great consequence, which
the French had fortified at a prodigious expense. The scheme of reducing this fortress was
planned in Boston, recommended by their general assembly, and approved by his majesty, who
sent instructions to commodore Warren, stationed off the Leeward Islands, to sail for the northern
parts of America, and co-operate with the forces of New England in this expedition. A body
of six thousand men was formed under the conduct of Mr. Pepperel, a trader of Piscataquay,
whose influence was extensive in that country; though he was a man of little or no education,
and utterly unacquainted with military operations. In April Mr. Warren arrived at Canso with
ten ships of war; and the troops of New England being embarked m transports, sailed immediately
for the isle of Cape Breton, where they landed without opposition. The enemy abandoned their
grand battery, which was detached from the town; and the immediate seizure of it contributed
in a good measure to the success of the enterprise. While the American troops, reinforced by
eight hundred marines, carried on their approaches by land, the squadron blocked up the place
by sea in such a manner that no succours could be introduced. A French ship of the line, with
some smaller vessels destined for the relief of the garrison, were intercepted and taken by
the British cruisers; and, indeed, the reduction of Louisbourg was chiefly owing to the vigilance
and activity of Mr. Warren, one of the bravest and best officers in the service of England.
The operations of the siege were wholly conducted by the engineers and officers who commanded
the British marines; and the Americans, being ignorant of war, were contented to act under
their directions. The town being considerably damaged by the bombs and bullets of the besiegers,
and the garrison despairing of relief, the governor capitulated on the seventeenth day of June,
when the city of Louisbourg, and the isle of Cape Breton, were surrendered to his Britannic
majesty. The garrison and inhabitants engaged that they would not bear arms for twelve months
against Great Britain or her allies; and being-embarked in fourteen cartel ships, were transported
to Rochefort. In a few days after the surrender of Louisbourg, two French East India ships,
and another from Peru, laden with treasure, sailed into the harbour on the supposition that
it still belonged to France, and were taken by the English squadron.

The news of this conquest being transmitted to England, Mr. Pepperel was preferred to the dignity
of a baronet of Great Britain, and congratulatory addresses were presented to the king on the
success of his majesty's arms. The possession of Cape Breton was, doubtless, a valuable acquisition
to Great Britain. It not only distressed the French in their fishery and navigation, but removed
all fears of encroachment and rivalship from the English fishers on the banks of Newfoundland.
It freed New England from the terrors of a dangerous neighbour; overawed the Indians of that
country; and secured the possession of Acadia to the crown of Great Britain. The plan of this
conquest was originally laid by Mr. Auchmuty, judge-advocate of the court of admiralty in New
England. He demonstrated, that the reduction of Cape Breton would put the English in sole possession
of the fishery of North America, which would annually return to Groat Britain two millions
sterling, for the manufactures yearly shipped to the plantations; employ many thousand families
that were otherwise unserviceable to the public; increase the shipping and mariners; extend
navigation; cut off all communication between France and Canada by the river St. Lawrence;
so that Quebec would fall of. course into the hands of the English, who might expel the French
entirely from America, open a correspondence with the remote Indians, and render themselves
masters of the profitable fur-trade, which was now engrossed by the enemy. The natives of New
England acquired great glory from the success of this enterprise. Britain, which had in some
instances behaved like a step-mother to her own colonies, was now convinced of their importance;
and treated those as brethren whom she had too long considered as aliens and rivals. Circumstanced
as the nation is, the legislature cannot too tenderly cherish the interests of the British
plantations in America. They are inhabited by a brave, hardy, industrious people, animated
with an active spirit of commerce; inspired with a noble zeal for liberty and independence.
The trade of Great Britain, clogged with heavy taxes and impositions, has for some time languished
in many valuable branches. The French have undersold our cloths, and spoiled our markets in
the Levant. Spain is no longer supplied as usual with the commodities of England; the exports
to Germany must be considerably diminished by the misunderstanding between Great Britain and
the house of Austria; consequently, her greatest resource must be in her communication with
her own colonies, which consume her manufactures, and make immense returns in sugar, rum, tobacco,
fish, timber, naval stores, iron, furs, drugs, rice, and indigo. The southern plantations likewise
produce silk; and with due encouragement, might furnish every thing that could be expected
from the most fertile soil and the happiest climate. The continent of North America, if properly
cultivated, will prove an inexhaustible fund of wealth and strength to Great Britain; and perhaps
it may become the last asylum of British liberty. When the nation is enslaved by domestic despotism
or foreign dominion; when her substance is wasted, her spirit broke, and the laws and constitution
of England are no more; then those colonies, sent off by our fathers, may receive and entertain
their sons as hapless exiles and ruined refugees.

PROJECT OF AN INSURRECTION IN GREAT BRITAIN.

While the continent of Europe and the isles of America were thus exposed to the ravages of
war, and subjected to such vicissitudes of fortune, Great Britain underwent a dangerous convulsion
in her own bowels. The son of the chevalier de St. George, fired with ambition, and animated
with the hope of ascending the throne of his ancestors, resolved to make an effort for that
purpose, which, though it might not be crowned with success, should at least astonish all Christendom.
The Jacobites in England and Scotland had promised, that if he would land in Britain at the
head of a regular army, they would supply him with provisions, carriages, and horses, and a
great number of them declared they would take up arms and join his standard; but they disapproved
of his coming over without forces, as a dangerous enterprise, that would in all probability
end in the ruin of himself and all his adherents. This advice, including an exact detail of
his father's interest, with the dispositions of his particular friends in every town and county,
was transmitted to London in January, in order to be forwarded to prince Charles; but the person
with whom it was intrusted could find no safe method of conveyance; so that he sent it back
to Scotland, from whence it was despatched to France; but before it reached Paris, Charles
had left that kingdom. Had the paper come to his hands in due time, perhaps he would not have
embarked in the undertaking, though he was stimulated to the attempt by many concurring motives.
Certain it is, he was cajoled by the sanguine misrepresentations of a few adventurers, who
hoped to profit by the expedition. They assured him that the whole nation was disaffected to
the reigning family; that the people could no longer bear the immense load of taxes, which
was daily increasing; and that the most considerable persons of the kingdom would gladly seize
the first opportunity of crowding to his standard. On the other hand, he knew the British government
had taken some effectual steps to alienate the friends of his house from the principles they
had hitherto professed. Some of them had accepted posts and pensions; others were preferred
in the army; and the parliament were so attached to the reigning family, that he had nothing
to hope from their deliberations. He expected no material succour from the court of France;
he foresaw that delay would diminish the number of his adherents in Great Britain; and, therefore,
resolved to seize the present occasion, which in many respects was propitious to his design.
Without doubt, had he been properly supported, he could not have found a more favourable opportunity
of exciting an intestine commotion in Great Britain; for Scotland was quite unfurnished with
troops; king George was in Germany; the duke of Cumberland, at the head of the British army,
was employed in Flanders, and great part of the highlanders were keen for insurrection. Their
natural principles were on this occasion stimulated by the suggestions of revenge. At the beginning
of the war a regiment of those people had been formed, and transported with the rest of the
British troops to Flanders. Before they were embarked, a number of them deserted with their
arms, on pretence that they had been decoyed into the service by promises and assurances that
they should never be sent abroad; and this was really the case. They were overtaken by a body
of horse, persuaded to submit, brought back to London pinioned like malefactors, and tried
for desertion. They were shot to death in terrorem; and the rest were sent in exile to the
plantations. Those who suffered were persons of some consequence in their own country; and
their fate was deeply resented by the clans to which they belonged. It was considered as a
national outrage; and the highlanders, who are naturally vindictive, waited impatiently for
an opportunity of vengeance.

The young pretender being furnished with a sum of money, and a supply of arms, on his private
credit, with-out the knowledge of the French court, wrote letters to his friends in Scotland,
explaining his design and situation, intimating the place where he intended to land, communicating
a private signal, and assuring them he should be with them by the middle of June. These precautions
being taken, he embarked on board of a small frigate at Port St. Nazaire, accompanied by the
marquis of Tullibardine, sir Thomas Sheridan, sir John Macdonald, with a few other Irish and
Scottish adventurers; and setting sail on the fourteenth of July, was joined off Belleisle
by the Elizabeth, a French ship of war, mounted with sixty-six guns, as his convoy. *

     * The Elizabeth, a king's ship, was procured as a convoy, by
     the interest of Mr. Walsh, an Irish merchant at Nantes; and
     on board of her fifty French young gentlemen embarked as
     volunteers.

Their design was to sail round Ireland, and land in the western part of Scotland; but falling
in with the Lion, an English ship of the line, a very obstinate and bloody action ensued. The
Elizabeth was so disabled that she could not prosecute the voyage, and with difficulty reached
the harbour of Brest; but the Lion was shattered to such a degree, that she floated like a
wreck upon the water. The disaster of the Elizabeth was a great misfortune to the adventurer,
as by her being disabled he lost a great quantity of arms, and about one hundred able officers,
who were embarked on board of her for the benefit of his expedition. Had this ship arrived
in Scotland, she could easily have reduced Fort William, situated in the midst of the clans
attached to the Stuart family. Such a conquest, by giving lustre to the prince's arms, would
have allured many to his standard, who were indifferent in point of principle; and encouraged
a great number of highlanders to join him, who were restricted by the apprehension, that their
wives and families would be subject to insults from the English garrison of this fortress.
Prince Charles, in the frigate, continued his course to the western isles of Scotland. After
a voyage of eighteen days he landed on a little island between Barra and South-Inst, two of
the Hebrides; then he re-embarked, and in a few days arrived at Borodale in Amsacy, on the
confines of Lochnannach, where he was in a little time joined by a considerable number of hardy
mountaineers, under their respective chiefs and leaders. On the nineteenth day of August, the
marquis of Tullibardine erected the pretender's standard at Glensinnan. Some of those, however,
on whom Charles principally depended, now stood aloof, either fluctuating in their principles,
astonished at the boldness of the undertaking, or startled at the remonstrances of their friends,
who did not fail to represent, in aggravated colours, all the danger of embarking in such a
desperate enterprise. Had the government acted with proper vigour when they received intelligence
of his arrival, the adventurer must have been crushed in embryo, before any considerable number
of his adherents could have been brought together; but the lords of the regency seemed to slight
the information, and even to suspect the integrity of those by whom it was conveyed. They were
soon convinced of their mistake. Prince Charles having assembled about twelve hundred men,
encamped in the neighbourhood of Fort William; and immediately hostilities were commenced.
A handful of Keppoch's clan, commanded by major Donald Macdonald, even before they joined the
pretender, attacked two companies of new raised soldiers, who, with their officer, were disarmed
after an obstinate dispute; another captain of the king's forces, falling into their hands,
was courteously dismissed with one of the pretender's manifestoes, and a passport for his personal
safety. The administration was now effectually alarmed. The lords of the regency issued a proclamation
offering a reward of thirty thousand pounds to any person who should apprehend the prince-adventurer.
The same price was set upon the head of the elector of Hanover, in a proclamation published
by the pretender. A courier was despatched to Holland to hasten the return of his majesty,
who arrived in England about the latter end of August. A requisition was made of the six thousand
Dutch auxiliaries; and several British regiments were recalled from the Netherlands. A loyal
address was presented to the king by the city of London; and the merchants of this metropolis
resolved to raise two regiments at their own expense. Orders were issued to keep the trained
bands in readiness; to array the militia of Westminster; and instructions to the same effect
were sent to all the lords-lieutenants of the counties throughout the kingdom. The principal
noblemen of the nation made a tender of their services to their sovereign; and some of them
received commissions to levy regiments towards the suppression of the rebellion. Bodies of
volunteers were incorporated in London and many other places; associations were formed, large
contributions raised in different towns, counties, and communities; and a great number of eminent
merchants in London agreed to support the public credit, by receiving, as usual, bank-notes
in payment for the purposes of traffic. The protestant clergy of all denominations exerted
themselves with extraordinary ardour, in preaching against the religion of Rome and the pretender;
and the friends of the government were encouraged, animated, and confirmed in their principles,
by several spiritual productions published for the occasion.

In a word, the bulk of the nation seemed unanimously bent upon opposing the enterprise of the
pretender, who, nevertheless, had already made surprising progress. His arrival in Scotland
was no sooner confirmed, than sir John Cope, who commanded the troops in that kingdom, assembled
what force he could bring together, and advanced against the rebels. Understanding, however,
that they had taken possession of a strong pass, he changed his route, and proceeded northwards
as far as Inverness, leaving the capital and the southern parts of North Britain wholly exposed
to the incursions of the enemy. The highlanders forthwith marched to Perth, where the chevalier
de St. George was proclaimed king of Great Britain, and the public money seized for his use;
the same steps were taken at Dundee and other places. Prince Charles was joined by the nobleman
who assumed the title of the duke of Perth, the viscount Strathallan, lord Nairn, lord George
Murray, and many persons of distinction, with their followers. The marquis of Tullibardine,
who had accompanied him from France, took possession of Athol, as heir of blood to the titles
and estates which his younger brother enjoyed in consequence of his attainder; and met with
some success in arming the tenants for the support of that cause which he avowed. The rebel
army being considerably augmented, though very ill-provided with arms, crossed the Forth in
the neighbourhood of Stirling, and advanced towards Edinburgh, where they were joined by lord
Eleho, son of the earl of Wemyss, and other persons of some distinction. On the sixteenth day
of September Charles summoned the town to surrender. The inhabitants were divided by faction,
and distracted by fear; the place was not in a posture of defence, and the magistrates would
not expose the people to the uncertain issue of an assault. Several deputations were sent from
the town to the pretender, in order to negotiate terms of capitulation. In the meantime, one
of the gates being opened for the admission of a coach, Cameron of Lochiel, one of the most
powerful of the highland chiefs, rushed into the place with a party of his men, and secured
it without opposition. Next morning the whole rebel army entered, and their prince took possession
of the royal palace of Holyrood-house in the suburbs. Then he caused his father to be proclaimed
at the market-cross; there also the manifesto was read, in which the chevalier de St. George
declared his son Charles regent of his dominions, promised to dissolve the union, and redress
the grievances of Scotland. His being in possession of the capital encouraged his followers,
and added reputation to his arms; but the treasure belonging to the two banks of that kingdom
had been previously conveyed into the castle, a strong fortress, with a good garrison, under
the command of general Guest, an old officer of experience and capacity.

During these transactions, sir John Cope marched back from Inverness to Aberdeen, where he
embarked with his troops, and on the seventeenth day of September landed at Dunbar, about twenty
miles to the eastward of Edinburgh. Here he was joined by two regiments of dragoons which had
retired with precipitation from the capital at the approach of the highland army. With this
reinforcement, his troops amounted to near three thousand men; and he began his march to Edinburgh,
in order to give battle to the enemy. On the twentieth day of the month, he encamped in the
neighbourhood of Prestonpans, having the village of Tranent in his front, and the sea in his
rear. Early next morning he was attacked by the young pretender, at the head of about two thousand
four hundred highlanders, half-armed, who-charged them sword in hand with such impetuosity,
that in less than ten minutes after the battle began, the king's troops were broken and totally
routed. The dragoons fled in the utmost confusion at the first onset; the general officers
having made some unsuccessful efforts to rally them, thought proper to consult their own safety
by an expeditious retreat towards Coldstream on the Tweed. All the infantry were either killed
or taken; and the colours, artillery, tents, baggage, and military chest, fell into the hands
of the victor, who returned in triumph to Edinburgh. Never was victory more complete, or obtained
at a smaller expense; for not above fifty of the rebels lost their lives in the engagement.
Five hundred of the king's troops were killed on the field of battle; and among these colonel
Gardiner, a gallant officer, who disdained to save his life at the expense of his honour. When
abandoned by his own regiment of dragoons, he alighted from his horse, joined the infantry,
and fought on foot, until he fell covered with wounds, in sight of his own threshold. Prince
Charles bore his good fortune with moderation; he prohibited all rejoicings for the victory
he had obtained; the wounded soldiers were treated with humanity; and the officers were sent
into Fife and Angus, where they were left at liberty on their parole, which the greater part
of them shamefully broke in the sequel. From this victory the pretender reaped manifold and
important advantages. His followers were armed, his party encouraged, and his enemies intimidated.
He was supplied with a train of field artillery, and a considerable sum of money, and saw himself
possessed of all Scotland, except the fortresses, the reduction of which he could not pretend
to undertake without proper implements and engineers. After the battle he was joined by a small
detachment from the highlands; and some chiefs, who had hitherto been on the reserve, began
to exert their influence in his favour. But he was not yet in a condition to take advantage
of that consternation which his late success had diffused through the kingdom of England.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

EFFORTS OF THE FRIENDS OF GOVERNMENT IN SCOTLAND.

Charles continued to reside in the palace of Holyrood-house; * and took measures for cutting
off the communication between the castle and the city.

     * While he resided at Edinburgh, some of the presbyterian
     clergy continued to preach in the churches of that city, and
     publicly prayed for king George, without suffering the least
     punishment or molestation. One minister in particular, of
     the name of Mac Vicar, being solicited by some highlanders
     to pray for their prince, promised to comply with their
     request, and performed his promise in words to this effect--
     "And as for the young prince, who is come hither in quest of
     an earthly crown, grant, O Lord, that he may speedily
     receive a crown of glory."

General Guest declared that he would demolish the city, unless the blockade should be raised,
so that provisions might be carried into the castle. After having waited the return of an express
which he had found means to despatch to court, he began to put his threats in execution by
firing upon the town. Some houses were beaten down, and several persons killed even at the
market-cross. The citizens, alarmed at this disaster, sent a deputation to the prince, entreating
him to raise the blockade; and he complyed with their request. He levied a regiment in Edinburgh
and the neighbourhood. He imposed taxes; seized the merchandize that was deposited in the king's
warehouses at Leith and other places; and compelled the city of Glasgow to accommodate him
with a large sum, to be repaid when the peace of the kingdom should be re-established. The
number of his followers daily increased, and he received considerable supplies of money, artillery,
and ammunition, by single ships that arrived from France, where his interest seemed to rise
in proportion to the success of his arms. The greater and richer part of Scotland was averse
to his family and pretensions; but the people were unarmed and undisciplined, consequently
passive under his dominion. By this time, however, the prince-pretender was joined by the earl
of Kilmarnock, the lords Eleho, Balmerino, Ogilvie, Pitsligo; and the eldest son of lord Lovat
had begun to assemble his father's clan, in order to reinforce the victor, whose army lay encamped
at Duddingston, in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh. Kilmarnock and Balmarinowere men of broken
and desperate fortune; Elcho and Ogilvie were sons to the earls of Wemyss and Airly; so that
their influence was far from being extensive. Pitsligo was a nobleman of very amiable character,
as well as of great personal interest; and great dependence was placed upon the power and attachment
of lord Lovat, who had entered into private engagements with the chevalier de St. George, though
he still wore the mask of loyalty to the government, and disavowed the conduct of his son when
he declared for the pretender. This old nobleman is the same Simon Fraser whom we have had
occasion to mention as a partisan and emissary of the court of St. Germain's, in the year one
thousand seven hundred and three. He had renounced his connexions with that family; and, in
the rebellion immediately after the accession of king George I., approved himself a warm friend
to the protestant succession. Since that period he had been induced, by disgust and ambition,
to change his principles again, and was in secret an enthusiast in jacobitism. He had greatly
augmented his estate, and obtained a considerable interest in the highlands, where, however,
he was rather dreaded than beloved. He was bold, enterprising, vain, arbitrary, rapacious,
cruel, and deceitful; but his character was chiefly marked by a species of low cunning and
dissimulation, which, however, overshot his purpose, and contributed to his own ruin.*

     *He solicited, and is said to have obtained of the chevalier
     de St. George the patent of a duke, and a commission for
     being lord-lieutenant of all the highlands.

While Charles resided at Edinburgh, the marquis de Guil-les arrived at Montrose, as envoy from
the French king, with several officers, some cannon, and a considerable quantity of small arms
for the use of that adventurer.

PRECAUTIONS TAKEN IN ENGLAND.

While the young pretender endeavoured to improve the advantages he had gamed, the ministry
of Great Britain took every possible measure to retard his progress. Several powerful chiefs
in the highlands were attached to the government, and exerted themselves in its defence. The
duke of Argyle began to arm his vassals; but not before he had obtained the sanction of the
legislature. Twelve hundred men were raised by the earl of Sutherland; the lord Rae brought
a considerable number to the field; the Grants and Monroes appeared under their respective
leaders for the service of his majesty; sir Alexander Macdonald declared for king George, and
the laird of Macleod sent two thousand hardy islanders from Skye to strengthen the same interest.
These gentlemen, though supposed to be otherwise affected, were governed and directed by the
advice of Duncan Forbes, president of the college of justice at Edinburgh, a man of extensive
knowledge, agreeable manners, and unblemished integrity. He procured commissions for raising
twenty independent companies, and some of these he bestowed upon individuals who were either
attached by principle, or engaged by promise, to the pretender. He acted with indefatigable
zeal for the interest of the reigning family; and he greatly injured an opulent fortune in
their service. He confirmed several chiefs who began to waiver in their principles; some he
actually converted by the energy of his arguments, and brought over to the assistance of the
government, which they had determined to oppose; others he persuaded to remain quiet, without
taking any share in the present troubles. Certain it is, this gentleman, by his industry and
address, prevented the insurrection of ten thousand highlanders, who would otherwise have joined
the pretender; and, therefore, he may be said to have been one great cause of that adventurer's
miscarriage. The earl of Loudon repaired to Inverness, where he completed his regiment of highlanders;
directed the conduct of the clans who had taken arms in behalf of his majesty; and, by his
vigilance, overawed the disaffected chieftains of that country, who had not yet openly engaged
in the rebellion. Immediately after the defeat of Cope, six thousand Dutch troops* arrived
in England, and three battalions of guards, with seven regiments of infantry, were recalled
from Flanders, for the defence of the kingdom.

     * They were composed of the forces who had been in garrison
     at Tournay and Dendermonde when those places were taken, and
     engaged by capitulation, that they should not perform any
     military function before the first day of January, in the
     year 1747; so they could not have acted in England without
     the infringement of a solemn treaty.

They forthwith began their march to the north, under the command of general Wade, who received
orders to assemble an army, which proceeded to Newcastle. The parliament meeting on the sixteenth
day of October, his majesty gave them to understand, that an unnatural rebellion had broke
out in Scotland, towards the suppression of which he craved their advice and assistance. He
found both houses cordial in their addresses, and zealous in their attachment to his person
and government. The commons forthwith suspended the habeas-corpus act; and several persons
were apprehended on suspicion of treasonable practices. Immediately after the session was opened,
the duke of Cumberland arrived from the Netherlands, and was followed by another detachment
of dragoons and infantry. The train-bands of London were reviewed by his majesty; the county
regiments were completed; the volunteers, in different parts of the kingdom, employed themselves
industriously in the exercise of arms; and the whole English nation seemed to rise up as one
man against this formidable invader. The government being apprehensive of a descent from France,
appointed admiral Vernon to command a squadron in the Downs, to observe the motions of the
enemy by sea, especially in the harbours of Dunkirk and Boulogne; and his cruisers took several
ships laden with soldiers, officers, and ammunition, destined for the service of the pretender
in Scotland.

This enterprising youth, having collected about five thousand men, resolved to make an irruption
into England, which he accordingly entered by the west border on the sixth day of November.
Carlisle was invested, and in less than three days surrendered; the keys were delivered to
him at Brampton, by the mayor and aldermen on their knees. Here he found a considerable quantity
of arms; his father was proclaimed king of Great Britain, and himself regent, by the magistrates
in their formalities. General Wade being apprized of his progress, decamped from Newcastle,
and advanced across the country as far as Hexham, though the fields were covered with snow,
and the roads almost impassable. There he received intelligence that Carlisle was reduced,
and forthwith returned to his former station, In the meantime, orders were issued for assembling
another army in Staffordshire, under the command of sir John Ligonier. Prince Charles, notwithstanding
this formidable opposition, determined to proceed. He had received assurances from France,
that a considerable body of troops would be landed on the southern coast of Britain, to make
a diversion in his favour; and he never doubted but that he should be joined by all the English
malcontents, as soon as he could penetrate into the heart of the kingdom. Leaving a small garrison
in the castle of Carlisle, he advanced to Penrith, marching on foot in the highland garb, at
the head of his forces; and continued his route through Lancaster and Preston to Manchester,
where on the twenty-ninth day of the month, he established his head quarters. There he was
joined by about two hundred Englishmen, who were formed into a regiment under the command of
colonel Townley. The inhabitants seemed to receive him with marks of affection; and his arrival
was celebrated by illuminations and other public rejoicings. His supposed intention was to
prosecute his march by the way of Chester into Wales, where he hoped to find a great number
of adherents; but all the bridges over the river Mersey being broken down, he chose the route
to Stockport, and forded the river at the head of his division, though the water rose to his
middle. He passed through Macclesfield and Congleton; and on the fourth day of December entered
the town of Derby, in which his army was quartered and his father proclaimed with great formality.
He had now advanced within one hundred miles of the capital, which was filled with terror and
confusion. Wade lingered in Yorkshire; the duke of Cumberland had assumed the command of the
other army assembled in the neighbourhood of Lichfield. He had marched from Stafford to Stone;
so that the rebels, in turning off from Ashbourne to Derby, had gained a march between him
and London. Had Charles proceeded in his career with that expedition which he had hitherto
used, he might have made himself master of the metropolis, where he would have been certainly
joined by a considerable number of his well wishers, who waited impatiently for his approach;
yet this exploit could not have been achieved without hazarding an engagement, and running
the risk of being enclosed within three armies, each greatly superior to his own in number
and artillery. Orders were given for forming a camp on Finchley-common, where the king resolved
to take the field in person, accompanied by the earl of Stair, field-marshal and commander-in-chief
of the forces in South-Britain. Some Romish priests were apprehended; the militia of London
and Middlesex were kept in readiness to march; double watches were posted at the city-gates,
and signals of alarm appointed. The volunteers of the city were incorporated into a regiment;
the practitioners of the law, headed by the judges, weavers of Spitalfields, and other communities,
engaged in associations; and even the managers of the theatres offered to raise a body of their
dependents for the service of the government. Notwithstanding these precautions and appearances
of unanimity, the trading part of the city, and those concerned in the money corporations,
were overwhelmed with fear and dejection. They reposed very little confidence in the courage
or discipline of their militia and volunteers; they had received intelligence that the French
were employed in making preparations at Dunkirk and Calais for a descent upon England; they
dreaded an insurrection of the Roman-catholics, and other friends of the house of Stuart; and
they reflected that the highlanders, of whom by this time they had conceived a most terrible
idea, were within four days' march of the capital. Alarmed by these considerations, they prognosticated
their own ruin in the approaching revolution; and their countenances exhibited the plainest
marks of horror and despair. On the other hand, the Jacobites were elevated to an insolence
of hope, which they were at no pains to conceal; while many people, who had no private property
to lose, and thought no change would be for the worse, waited the issue of this crisis with
the most calm indifference.

THE REBELS RETREAT INTO SCOTLAND.

This state of suspense was of short duration. The young pretender found himself miserably disappointed
in his expectations. He had now advanced into the middle of the kingdom, and except a few that
joined him at Manchester, not a soul appeared in his behalf; one would have imagined that all
the Jacobites of England had been annihilated. The Welch took no step to excite an insurrection
in his favour; the French made no attempt towards an invasion; his court was divided into factions;
the highland chiefs began to murmur, and their clans to be unruly; he saw himself with a handful
of men hemmed in between two considerable armies, in the middle of winter, and in a country
disaffected to his cause. He knew he could not proceed to the metropolis without hazarding
a battle, and that a defeat would be attended with the inevitable destruction of himself and
all his adherents; and he had received information that his friends and officers had assembled
a body of forces in the North, superior in number to those by whom he was attended. He called
a council at Derby; and proposed to advance towards London: the proposal was supported by lord
Nairn with great vehemence; but, after violent disputes, the majority determined that they
should retreat to Scotland with all possible expedition. Accordingly, they abandoned Derby
on the sixth day of December, early in the morning, and measured back the route by which they
had advanced. On the ninth their vanguard arrived at Manchester; on the twelfth they entered
Preston, and continued their march northwards. The duke of Cumberland, who was encamped at
Meriden, when first apprized of their retreat, detached the horse and dragoons in pursuit of
them; while general Wade began his march from Ferry-bridge in Lancashire, with a view of intercepting
them in their route; but at Wakefield he understood that they had already reached Wigan; he
therefore repaired to his old post at Newcastle, after having detached general Oglethorpe,
with his horse and dragoons, to join those who had been sent off from the duke's army. They
pursued with such alacrity, that they overtook the rear of the rebels, with which they skirmished
in Lancashire. The militia of Cumberland and Westmoreland were raised and armed by the duke's
order, to harass them in their march. The bridges were broken down, the roads damaged, and
the beacons lighted to alarm the country. Nevertheless, they retreated regularly with their
small train of artillery. They were overtaken at the village of Clifton, in the neighbourhood
of Penrith, by two regiments of dragoons. These alighted, and lined the hedges, in order to
harass part of the enemy's rear-guard, commanded by lord John Murray; who, at the head of the
Macphersons, attacked the dragoons sword in hand, and repulsed them with some loss. On the
nineteenth day of the month, the highland army reached Carlisle, where the majority of the
English in the service of the pretender were left, at their own desire. Charles, having reinforced
the garrison of the place, crossed the rivers Eden and Solway into Scotland, having thus accomplished
one of the most surprising retreats that ever was performed. But the most remarkable circumstance
of this expedition, was the moderation and regularity with which those ferocious people conducted
themselves in a country abounding with plunder. No violence was offered; no outrage committed;
and they were effectually restrained from the exercise of rapine. Notwithstanding the excessive
cold, the hunger, and fatigue to which they must have been exposed, they left behind no sick,
and lost a very few stragglers; but retired with deliberation, and carried off their cannon
in the face of their enemy. The duke of Cumberland invested Carlisle with his whole army on
the twenty-first day of December, and on the thirtieth the garrison surrendered on a sort of
capitulation made with the duke of Richmond. The prisoners, amounting to about four hundred,
were imprisoned in different gaols in England, and the duke returned to London.

The pretender proceeded by the way of Dumfries to Glasgow, from which last city he exacted
severe contributions, on account of its attachment to the government, for whose service it
had raised a regiment of nine hundred men under the command of the earl of Home. Having continued
several days at Glasgow, he advanced towards Stirling, and was joined by some forces which
had been assembled in his absence by lords Lewis Gordon and John Drummond, brothers to the
dukes of Gordon and Perth. This last nobleman had arrived from France in November, with a small
reinforcement of French and Irish, and a commission as general of these auxiliaries, he fixed
his head quarters at Perth, where he was reinforced by the earl of Cromartie and other clans,
to the number of two thousand, and he was accommodated with a small train of artillery. They
had found means to surprise a sloop of war at Montrose, with the guns of which they fortified
that harbour. They had received a considerable sum of money from Spain. They took possession
of Dundee, Dumblane, Downcastle, and laid Fife under contribution. The earl of Loudon remained
at Inverness, with about two thousand highlanders in the service of his majesty. He convoyed
provisions to Fort-Augustus and Fort-William; he secured the person of lord Lovat, who still
temporized, and at length this cunning veteran accomplished his escape. The laird of Macleod,
and Mr. Monro of Culcairn, being detached from Inverness towards Aberdeenshire, were surprised
and routed by lord Lewis Gordon at Inverary; and that interest seemed to preponderate in the
north of Scotland. Prince Charles being joined by lord John Drummond, invested the castle of
Stirling, in which general Blakeney commanded; but his people were so little used to enterprises
of this kind, that they made very little progress in their operations.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE KING'S TROOPS UNDER HAWLEY ARE WORSTED AT FALKIEK.

By this time, a considerable body of forces was assembled at Edinburgh, under the conduct of
general Hawley, who determined to relieve Stirling-castle, and advanced to Linlithgow on the
thirteenth day of January; next day his whole army rendezvoused at Falkirk, while the rebels
were cantoned about Bannockburn. On the seventeenth day of the month, they began then-march
in two columns to attack the king's forces, and had forded the water of Carron, within three
miles of Hawley's camp, before he discovered their intention. Such was his obstinacy, self-conceit,
or contempt of the enemy, that he slighted the repeated intelligence he had received of their
motions and design, firmly believing they durst not hazard an engagement. At length perceiving
that they had occupied the rising ground to the southward of Falkirk, he ordered his cavalry
to advance and drive them from the eminence; while his infantry formed, and were drawn up in
order of battle. The highlanders kept up their fire, and took aim so well, that the assailants
were broke by the first volley; they retreated with precipitation, and fell in amongst the
infantry, which were likewise discomposed by the wind and rain beating with great violence
in their faces, wetting their powder, and disturbing their eyesight. Some of the dragoons rallied,
and advanced again to the charge, with part of the infantry which had not been engaged; then
the pretender marched up at the head of his corps de reserve, consisting of the regiment of
lord John Drummond, and the Irish piquets. These reinforcing the Camerons and the Stuarts in
the front line, immediately obliged the dragoons to give way a second time, and they again
disordered the foot in their retreat. They set fire to their camp, and abandoned Falkirk with
their baggage and train, which last had never reached the field of battle. The rebels followed
their first blow, and great part of the royal army, after one irregular discharge, turned their
backs and fled in the utmost consternation. In all probability few or none of them would have
escaped, had not general Huske, and brigadier Cholmondeley, rallied part of some regiments,
and made a gallant stand, which favoured the retreat of the rest to Falkirk, from whence they
retired in confusion to Edinburgh, leaving the field of battle, with part of their tents and
artillery, to the rebels; but their loss of men did not exceed three hundred, including sir
Robert Monro, colonel Whitney, and some other officers of distinction. It was at this period,
that the officers who had been taken at the battle of Prestonpans, and conveyed to Angus and
Fife, finding themselves unguarded, broke their parole, and returned to Edinburgh, on pretence
of their having been forcibly released by the inhabitants of those parts.*

     * Sir Peter Halket, captain Lucy Scott, lieutenants
     Farquharson and Cumming, with a few other gentlemen, adhered
     punctually to their parole, and their conduct was approved
     by his majesty.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE DUKE OF CUMBERLAND COMMANDS THE ROYAL TROOPS.

General Hawley, who had boasted that, with two regiments of dragoons, he would drive the rebel
army from one end of the kingdom to the other, incurred abundance of censure for the disposition
he made, as well as for his conduct before and after the action; but he found means to vindicate
himself to the satisfaction of his sovereign. Nevertheless, it was judged necessary that the
army in Scotland should be commanded by a general in whom the soldiers might have some confidence;
and the duke of Cumberland was chosen for this purpose. Over and above his being beloved by
the army, it was suggested, that the appearance of a prince of the blood in Scotland might
have a favourable effect upon the minds of the people in that kingdom; he therefore began to
prepare for his northern expedition. Meanwhile, the French minister at the Hague having represented
to the states-general, that the auxiliaries which they had sent into Great Britain were part
of the garrisons of Tournay and Dendermonde, and restricted by the capitulation from bearing
arms against France for a certain term, the states thought proper to recall them, rather than
come to an open rupture with his most christian majesty. In the room of those troops six thousand
Hessians were transported from Flanders to Leith, where they arrived in the beginning of February,
under the command of their prince, Frederick of Hesse, son-in-law to his Britannic majesty.
By this time the duke of Cumberland had put himself at the head of the troops in Edinburgh,
consisting of fourteen battalions of infantry, two regiments of dragoons, and twelve hundred
highlanders from Argyle-shire, under the command of colonel Campbell.

{1746}

On the last day of January, his royal highness began his march to Linlithgow; and the enemy,
who had renewed the siege of Stirling-castle, not only abandoned that enterprise, but crossed
the river Forth with precipitation. Their prince found great difficulty in maintaining his
forces, that part of the country being quite exhausted. He hoped to be reinforced in the Highlands,
and to receive supplies of all kinds from France and Spain; he therefore retired by Badenoch
towards Inverness, which the earl of Loudon abandoned at his approach. The fort was surrendered
to him almost without opposition, and here he fixed his head-quarters. His next exploit was
the siege of Fort-Augustus, which he in a little time reduced. The duke of Cumberland having
secured the important posts of Stirling and Perth with the Hessian battalions, advanced with
the army to Aberdeen, where he was joined by the duke of Gordon, the earls of Aberdeen and
Findlater, the laird of Grant, and other persons of distinction.

THE REBELS UNDERTAKE THE SIEGE OF FORT-WILLIAM.

While he remained in this place, refreshing his troops, and preparing magazines, a party of
the rebels surprised a detachment of Kingston's horse, and about seventy Argyleshire highlanders,
at Keith, who were either killed or taken. Several advanced parties of that militia met with
the same fate in different places. Lord George Murray invested the castle of Blair, which was
defended by sir Andrew Agnew, until a body of Hessians marched to its relief, and obliged the
rebels to retire. The prince-pretender ordered all his forces to assemble, in order to begin
their march for Aberdeen to attack the duke of Cumberland; but, in consequence of a remonstrance
from the clans, who declined leaving their families at the mercy of the king's garrison in
Fort-William, he resolved previously to reduce that fortress, the siege of which was undertaken
by brigadier Stapleton, an engineer in the French service; but the place was so vigorously
maintained by captain Scot, that in the beginning of April they thought proper to relinquish
the enterprise. The earl of Loudon had retired into Sutherland, and taken post at Dornoch,
where his quarters were beat up by a strong detachment of the rebels, commanded by the duke
of Perth; a major and sixty men taken prisoners; and the earl was obliged to take shelter in
the Isle of Skye. These little checks were counterbalanced by some advantages which his majesty's
arms obtained. The sloop of war which the rebels had surprised at Montrose was retaken in Sutherland,
with a considerable sum of money, and a great quantity of arms on board, which she had brought
from France for the use of the pretender. In the same county, the earl of Cromartie fell into
an ambuscade, and was taken by the militia of Sutherland, who likewise defeated a body of the
rebels at Goldspie. This action happened on the very day which has been rendered famous by
the victory obtained at Culloden.

CHAPTER VI.

     The Rebels are totally defeated at Culloden..... The Duke
     of Cumberland takes Possession of Inverness, and afterwards
     encamps at Fort-Augustus..... The Prince Pretender escapes
     to France..... Convulsion in the Ministry..... Liberality of
     the Commons..... Trial of the Rebels..... Kilmarnock,
     Balmerino, Lovat, and Mr. Ratcliff, are beheaded on Tower-
     hill..... The States-general alarmed at the Progress of the
     French in the Netherlands..... Count Saxa subdues all
     Flanders, Brabant, and Hainault..... Reduces the strong
     Fortress of Namur, and defeats the Allied Army at
     Roucoux..... The French and Spaniards are compelled to
     abandon Piedmont and the Milanese..... Don Philip is worsted
     at Codogno, and afterwards at Porto Freddo..... The
     Austrians take Possession of Genoa..... Count Brown
     penetrates into Provence..... The Genoese expel the
     Austrians from their City..... Madras in the East Indies
     taken by the French..... Expedition to the Coast of
     Bretagne, and Attempt upon Port L'Orient..... Naval
     Transactions in the West-Indies..... Conferences at
     Breda..... Vast Supplies granted by the Commons of
     England..... Parliament dissolved..... The French and Allies
     take the Field in Flanders..... Prince of Orange elected
     Stadtholder, Captain-general, and Admiral of the United
     Provinces..... The Confederates defeated at Laffeldt.....
     Siege of Bergen-op-Zoom--The Austrians undertake the Siege
     of Genoa, which however, they abandon..... The Chevalier de
     Belleisle slain in the Attack of Exilles..... A French
     Squadron defeated and taken by the Admirals Anson and
     Warren..... Admiral Hawke obtains another Victory over the
     French at Sea..... Other Naval Transactions..... Congress at
     Aix-la-Chapelle..... Compliant Temper of the new
     Parliament..... Preliminaries signed..... Preparations for
     the Campaign in the Netherlands..... Siege of
     Maestrieht..... Cessation of Arms..... Transactions in the
     East and West Indies..... Conclusion of the Definitive
     Treaty at Aix-la-Chapelle

THE REBELS ARE TOTALLY DEFEATED.

In the beginning of April, the duke of Cumberland began his march from Aberdeen, and on the
twelfth passed the deep and rapid river Spey, without opposition from the rebels, though a
detachment of them appeared on the opposite side. Why they did not dispute the passage is not
easy to be conceived; But, indeed, from this instance of neglect, and their subsequent conduct,
we may conclude they were under a total infatuation. His royal highness proceeded to Nairn,
where he received intelligence that the enemy had advanced from Inverness to Culloden, about
the distance of nine miles from the royal army, with intention to give him battle. The design
of Charles was to march in the night from Culloden, and surprise the duke's army at day-break;
for this purpose the English camp had been reconnoitred; and on the night of the fifteenth
the highland army began to march in two columns. Their design was to surround the enemy, and
attack them at once on all quarters; but the length of the columns embarrassed the march, so
that the army was obliged to make many halts: the men had been under arms during the whole
preceding night, were faint with hunger and fatigue, and many of them overpowered with sleep.
Some were unable to proceed; others dropped off unperceived in the dark; and the march was
retarded in such a manner, that it would have been impossible to reach the duke's camp before
sun-rise. The design being thus frustrated, the prince-pretender was with great reluctance
prevailed upon by his general officers to measure back his way to Culloden; at which place
he had no sooner arrived, than great numbers of his followers dispersed in quest of provisions;
and many, overcome with weariness and sleep, threw themselves down on the heath and along the
park walls. Their repose, however, was soon interrupted in a very disagreeable manner. Their
prince receiving intelligence that his enemies were in full march to attack him, resolved to
hazard an engagement, and ordered his troops to be formed for that purpose. On the sixteenth
day of April, the duke of Cumberland, having made the proper dispositions, decamped from Nairn
early in the morning, and after a march of nine miles perceived the highlanders drawn up in
order of battle, to the number of four thou-sand men, in thirteen divisions, supplied with
some pieces of artillery. The royal army, which was much more numerous, the duke immediately
formed into three lines, disposed in excellent order: and about one o'clock in the afternoon
the cannonading began. The artillery of the rebels was ill served, and did very little execution;
but that of the king's troops made dreadful havock among the enemy. Impatient of this fire,
their front line advanced to the attack, and about five hundred of the clans charged the duke's
left wing with their usual impetuosity. One regiment was disordered by the weight of this column;
but two battalions advancing from the second line, sustained the first, and soon put a stop
to their career, by a severe fire, that killed a great number. At the same time the dragoons
under Hawley, and the Argyleshire militia, pulled down a park wall that covered their flank,
and the cavalry falling in among the rebels sword in hand, completed their confusion. The French
picquets on their left, covered the retreat of the highlanders by a close and regular fire;
and then retired to Inverness, where they surrendered themselves prison-ers of war. An entire
body of the rebels marched off the field in order, with their pipes playing, and the pre-tender's
standard displayed; the rest were routed with great slaughter; and their prince was with reluctance
prevailed upon to retire. In less than thirty minutes they were totally defeated, and the field
covered with the slain. The road, as far as Inverness, was strewed with dead bodies; and a
great number of people, who from motives of curiosity had come to see the battle, were sacrificed
to the undistinguished vengeance of the victors. Twelve hundred rebels were slain or wounded
on the field, and in the pursuit. The earl of Kilmarnock was taken; and in a few days lord
Balmerino surrendered to a country gentleman, at whose house he presented himself for this
purpose. The glory of the victory was sullied by the barbarity of the soldiers. They had been
provoked by their former disgraces to the most savage thirst of revenge. Not contented with
the blood which was so profusely shed in the heat of action, they traversed the field after
the battle, and massacred those miserable wretches who lay maimed and expiring: nay, some officers
acted a part in this cruel scene of assassination, the triumph of low illiberal minds, uninspired
by sentiment, untinctured by humanity. The vanquished adventurer rode off the field, accompanied
by the duke of Perth, lord Elcho, and a few horsemen; he crossed the water at Nairn, and retired
to the house of a gentleman in Strutharrick, where he conferred with old lord Lovat; then he
dismissed his followers, and wandered about a wretched and solitary fugitive among the isles
and mountains for the space of five months, during which he underwent such a series of dangers,
hardships, and misery, as no other person ever outlived. Thus, in one short hour, all his hope
vanished, and the rebellion was entirely extinguished. One would almost imagine, the conductors
of this desperate enterprise had conspired their own destruction, as they certainly neglected
every step that might have contributed to their safety or success. They might have opposed
the duke of Cumberland at the passage of the Spey; they might, by proper conduct, have afterwards
attacked his camp in the night, with a good prospect of success. As they were greatly inferior
to him in number, and weakened with hunger and fatigue, they might have retired to the hills
and fastnesses, where they would have found plenty of live cattle for provision, recruited
their regiments, and been joined by a strong reinforcement, which was actually in full march
to their assistance. But they were distracted by dissensions and jealousies; they obeyed the
dictates of despair, and wilfully devoted themselves to ruin and death. When the news of the
battle arrived in England, the nation was transported with joy, and extolled the duke of Cumberland
as a hero and deliverer, Both houses of parliament congratulated his majesty on the auspicious
event. They decreed, in the most solemn manner, their public thanks to his royal highness,
which were transmitted to him by the speakers; and the commons, by bill, added five-and-twenty
thousand pounds per annum to his former revenue.

THE DUKE OF CUMBERLAND TAKES POSSESSION OF INVERNESS.

Immediately after the decisive action at Culloden, the duke took possession of Inverness, where
six-and-thirty deserters, convicted by a court-martial, were ordered to be executed: then he
detached several parties to ravage the country. One of these apprehended the lady Mackintosh,
who was sent prisoner to Inverness. They did not plunder her house, but drove away her cattle,
though her husband was actually in the service of government. The castle of lord Lovat was
destroyed. The French prisoners were sent to Carlisle and Penrith: Kilmarnock, Balmerino, Cromartie,
and his son the lord Macleod, were conveyed by sea to London; and those of an inferior rank
were confined in different prisons. The marquis of Tullibardine, together with a brother of
the earl of Dunmore, were seized and transported to the Tower of London, to which the earl
of Traquaire had been committed on suspicion: in a few months after the battle of Culloden,
Murray, the pretender's secretary, was apprehended; and the eldest son of lord Lovat, having
surrendered himself, was imprisoned in the castle of Edinburgh. In a word, all the gaols of
Great Britain, from the capital northwards, were filled with those unfortunate captives; and
great numbers of them were crowded together in the holds of ships, where they perished in the
most deplorable manner, for the want of necessaries, air, and exercise. Some rebel chiefs escaped
in two French frigates, which had arrived on the coast of Lochaber about the end of April,
and engaged three vessels belonging to his Britannic majesty, which they obliged to retire.
Others embarked on board of a ship on the coast of Buchan, and were conveyed to Norway; from
thence they travelled to Sweden. In the month of May, the duke of Cumberland advanced with
the army into the highlands as far as Fort-Augustus, where he encamped, and sent off detachments
on all hands to hunt down the fugitives, and lay waste the country with fire and sword. The
castles of Glengary and Lochiel were plundered and burned; every house, hut, or habitation,
met with the same fate without distinction; all the cattle and provision were carried off;
the men were either shot upon the mountains like wild beasts, or put to death in cold blood,
without form of trial; the women, after having seen their husbands and fathers murdered, were
subjected to brutal violation, and then turned out naked, with their children, to starve on
the barren heaths. One whole family was enclosed in a barn, and consumed to ashes. Those ministers
of vengeance were so alert in the execution of their office, that in a few days there was neither
house, cottage, man, nor beast, to be seen in the compass of fifty miles: all was ruin, silence,
and desolation.

THE PRETENDER ESCAPES TO FRANCE.

The humane reader cannot reflect upon such a scene without grief and horror; what then must
have been the sensation of the fugitive prince, when he beheld these spectacles of woe, the
dismal fruit of his ambition? He was now surrounded by armed troops, that chased him from hill
to dale, from rock to cavern, and from shore to shore. Sometimes he lurked in caves and cottages,
without attendants, or any other support but that which the poorest peasant could supply. Sometimes
he was rowed in fisher-boats from isle to isle among the Hebrides, and often in sight of his
pursuers. For some days he appeared in woman's attire, and even passed through the midst of
his enemies unknown. But understanding his disguise was discovered, he assumed the habit of
a travelling mountaineer, and wandered about among the woods and heaths, with a matted beard,
and squalid looks, exposed to hunger, thirst, and weariness, and in continual danger of being
apprehended. In the course of these peregrinations, he was more than once hemmed in by his
pursuers in such a manner as seemed to preclude all possibility of escaping; yet he was never
abandoned by his hope and recollection; he still found some expedient that saved him from captivity
and death; and through the whole course of his distresses maintained the most amazing equanimity
and good humour. At length a privateer of Saint Malo, hired by the young Sheridan and some
other Irish adherents, arrived in Lochnannach; and on the twentieth day of September, this
unfortunate prince embarked in the habit which he wore for disguise. His eye was hollow, his
visage wan, and his constitution greatly impaired by famine and fatigue. He was accompanied
by Cameron of Lochiel and his brother, with a few other exiles. They set sail for France, and
after having passed unseen, by means of a thick fog, through a British squadron commanded by
admiral Lestock, and been chased by two English ships of war, arrived in safety at Roscau,
near Morlaix, in Bretagne. Perhaps he would have found it still more difficult to escape, had
not the vigilance and eagerness of the government been relaxed, in consequence of a report
that he had already fallen among some persons that were slain by a volley from one of the duke's
detachments.

CONVULSION IN THE MINISTRY.

Having thus explained the rise, progress, and extinction of the rebellion, it will be necessary
to take a retrospective view of the proceedings in parliament. The necessary steps being taken
for quieting the intestine commotions of the kingdom, the two houses began to convert their
attention to the affairs of the continent. On the fourteenth day of January, the king repaired
to the house of peers, and, in a speech from the throne, gave his parliament to understand
that the states-general had made pressing instances for his assistance in the present conjuncture,
when they were in such danger of being oppressed by the power of France in the Netherlands;
that he had promised to co-operate with them towards opposing the further progress of their
enemies; and even concerted measures for that purpose. He declared it was with regret that
he asked any further aids of his people; he exhorted them to watch over the public credit;
and expressed his entire dependence on their zeal and unanimity. He was favoured with loyal
addresses, couched in the warmest terms of duty and affection; but the supplies were retarded
by new convulsions in the ministry. The earl of Granville had made an effort to retrieve his
influence in the cabinet, and his sovereign favoured his pretensions. The two brothers, who
knew his aspiring genius, and dreaded his superior talents, refused to admit such a colleague
into the administration; they even resolved to strengthen their party, by introducing fresh
auxiliaries into the office of state. Some of these were personally disagreeable to his majesty,
who accordingly rejected the suit by which they were recommended. The duke of Newcastle and
his brother, with all their adherents, immediately resigned their employments. The earl of
Granville was appointed secretary of state, and resumed the reins of administration; but, finding
himself unequal to the accumulated opposition that preponderated against him; foreseeing that
he should not be able to secure the supplies in parliament; and dreading the consequence of
that confusion which his restoration had already produced, he, in three days, voluntarily quitted
the helm; and his majesty acquiesced in the measures proposed by the opposite party. The seals
were re-delivered to the duke of Newcastle and the earl of Harrington; Mr. Pel-ham, and all
the rest who had resigned, were reinstated in their respective employments; and offices were
conferred on several individuals who had never before been in the service of the government.
William Pitt, esq., was appointed vice-treasurer of Ireland, and soon promoted to the place
of paymaster-general of the forces; at the same time the king declared him a privy-counsellor.
This gentleman had been originally designed for the army, in which he actually bore a commission;
but fate reserved him a more important station. In point of fortune he was barely qualified
to be elected member of parliament, when he obtained a seat in the house of commons, where
he soon outshone all his compatriots.

The quiet of the ministry being re-established, the house of commons provided for forty thousand
seamen, nearly the same number of land forces, besides fifteen regiments raised by the nobility
on account of the rebellion, and about twelve thousand marines. They settled funds for the
maintenance of the Dutch and Hessian troops that were in England, as well as for the subsidy
to the landgrave. They granted three hundred thousand pounds to the king of Sardinia; four
hundred thousand pounds to the queen of Hungary; three hundred and ten thousand pounds to defray
the expense of eighteen thousand Hanoverians; about three-and-thirty thousand pounds in subsidies
to the electors of Mentz and Cologn; and five hundred thousand pounds in a vote of credit and
confidence to his majesty. The whole charge of the current year amounted to seven millions
two hundred and fifty thousand pounds, which was raised by the land and malt taxes, annuities
on the additional duties imposed on glass and spirituous liquors, a lottery, a deduction from
the sinking fund, and exchequer bills, chargeable on the first aids that should be granted
in the next session of parliament.

TRIAL AND EXECUTION OF THE REBELS.

The rebellion being quelled, the legislature resolved to make examples of those who had been
concerned in disturbing the peace of their country. In June, an act of attainder was passed
against the principal persons who had embarked in that desperate undertaking; and courts were
opened in different parts of England for the trial of the prisoners. Seventeen persons who
had borne arms in the rebel army were executed at Kennington Common, in the neighbourhood of
London, and suffered with great constancy under the dreadful tortures which their sentence
prescribed; nine were put to death in the same manner at Carlisle; six at Brampton, seven at
Penrith, eleven at York: of these a considerable number were gentlemen, and had acted as officers;
about fifty had been executed as deserters in different parts of Scotland; eighty-one suffered
the pains of the law as traitors. A few obtained pardons, and a considerable number were transported
to the plantations. Bills of indictment for high treason were found by the county of Surrey
against the earls of Kilmarnock and Cromartie, and lord Balmerino. These noblemen were tried
by their peers in Westminster-hall, the lord chancellor presiding as lord high-steward for
the occasion. The two earls confessed their crimes, and in pathetic speeches recommended themselves
to his majesty's mercy. Lord Balmerino pleaded not guilty; he denied his having been at Carlisle
at the time specified in the indictment, but this exception was over-ruled; then he moved a
point of law in arrest of judgment, and was allowed to be heard by his counsel. They might
have expatiated on the hardship of being tried by an ex post facto law; and claimed the privilege
of trial in the county where the act of treason was said to have been committed. The same hardship
was imposed upon all the imprisoned rebels: they were dragged in captivity to a strange country,
far from their friends and connexions, destitute of means to produce evidence in their favour,
even if they had been innocent of the charge. Balmerino waived this plea, and submitted to
the court, which pronounced sentence of death upon him and his two associates. Cromartie's
life was spared; but the other two were beheaded, in the month of August, on Tower-hill. Kilmarnock
was a nobleman of fine personal accomplishments; he had been educated in revolution principles,
and engaged in the rebellion partly from the desperate situation of his fortune, and partly
from resentment to the government, on his being deprived of a pension which he had for some
time enjoyed. He was convinced of his having acted criminally, and died with marks of penitence
and contrition. Balmerino had been bred up to arms, and acted upon principle: he was gallant,
brave, rough, and resolute; he eyed the implements of death with the most careless familiarity,
and seemed to triumph in his sufferings. In November, Mr. Ratcliffe, the titular earl of Derwentwater,
who had been taken in a ship bound for Scotland, was arraigned on a former sentence passed
against him in the year one thousand seven hundred and sixteen: he refused to acknowledge the
authority of the court, and pleaded that he was a subject of France, honoured with a commission
in the service of his most christian majesty. The identity of his person being proved, a rule
was made for his execution; and on the eighth day of December he suffered decapitation, with
the most perfect composure and serenity. Lord Lovat, now turned of four-score, was impeached
by the commons, and tried in Westminster-hall before the lord high-steward. John Murray, secretary
to the prince-pretender, and some of his own domestics, appearing against him, he was convicted
of high treason, and condemned. Notwithstanding his age, infirmities, and the recollection
of his conscience, which was supposed to be not altogether void of offence, he died like an
old Roman, exclaiming, "Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori." He surveyed the crowd with attention,
examined the axe, jested with the executioner, and laid his head upon the block with the utmost
indifference. From this last scene of his life, one would have concluded that he had approved
himself a patriot from his youth, and never deviated from the paths of virtue.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE STATES-GENERAL ALARMED AT THE PROGRESS OF THE FRENCH.

The flame of war on the continent did not expire at the election of an emperor, and the re-establishment
of peace among the princes of the empire. On the contrary, it raged with double violence in
consequence of these events; for the force that was before divided being now united in one
body, exerted itself with great vigour and rapidity. The states-general were overwhelmed with
consternation. Notwithstanding the pains they had taken to avoid a war, and the condescension
with which they had soothed and supplicated the French monarch in repeated embassies and memorials,
they saw themselves striped of their barrier, and once mere in danger of being overwhelmed
by that ambitious nation. The city of Brussels had been reduced during the winter; so that
the enemy were in possession of all the Austrian Netherlands, except a few fortresses. Great
part of the forces belonging to the republic were restricted from action by capitulations,
to which they had subscribed. The states were divided in their councils between the two factions
which had long subsisted. They trembled at the prospect of seeing Zealand invaded in the spring.
The Orange party loudly called for an augmentation of their forces by sea and land, that they
might prosecute the war with vigour. The common people, fond of novelty, dazzled by the splendour
of greatness, and fully persuaded that nothing but a chief was wanting to their security, demanded
the prince of Orange as a stadtholder; and even mingled menaces with their demands. The opposite
faction dreaded alike the power of a stadtholder, the neighbourhood of a French army, and the
seditious disposition of the populace. An ambassador was sent to London with representations
of the imminent dangers which threatened the republic, and he was ordered to solicit in the
most pressing terms the assistance of his Britannic majesty, that the allies might have a superiority
in the Netherlands by the beginning of the campaign. The king was very well disposed to comply
with their request; but the rebellion in his kingdom, and the dissensions in his cabinet, had
retailed the supplies and embarrassed him so much, that he found it impossible to make those
early preparations that were necessary to check the career of the enemy.

COUNT SAXE SUBDUES ALL FLANDERS, BRABANT, AND HAINAULT.

The king of France, with his general the count de Saxe, took the field in the latter end of
April, at the head of one hundred and twenty thousand men, and advanced towards the allies,
who, to the number of four-and-forty thousand, were intrenched behind the Demer under the conduct
of the Austrian general Bathiani, who retired before them, and took post in the neighbourhood
of Breda, the capital of Dutch Brabant. Mareschal Saxe immediately invested Antwerp, which
in a few clays was surrendered. Then he appeared before the strong town of Mons in Hainault,
with an irresistible train of artillery, and an immense quantity of bombs and warlike implements.
He carried on his approaches with such unabating impetuosity, that, notwithstanding a very
vigorous defence, the garrison was obliged to capitulate on the twenty-seventh day of June,
in about eight-and-twenty days after the place had been invested. Sieges were not now carried
on by the tedious method of sapping. The French king found it much more expeditious and effectual
to bring into the field a prodigious train of battering cannon, and enormous mortars, that
kept up such a fire as no garrison could sustain, and discharged such an incessant hail of
bombs and bullets, as in a very little time reduced to ruins the place with all its fortifications.
St. Guislain and Charleroy met with the fate of Mons and Antwerp; so that by the middle of
July the French king was absolute master of Flanders, Brabant, and Hainault.

Prince Charles of Lorraine had by this time assumed the command of the confederate army at
Terheyde, which being reinforced by the Hessian troops from Scotland, and a fresh body of Austrians
under count Palfi, amounted to eighty-seven thousand men, including the Dutch forces commanded
by the prince of Waldeck. The generals, supposing the next storm would fall upon Namur, marched
towards that place, and took post in an advantageous situation on the eighteenth day of July,
in sight of the French army, which was encamped at Gemblours, Here they remained till the eighth
day of August, when a detachment of the enemy, commanded by count Lowendahl, took possession
of Huy, where he found a large magazine belonging to the confederates; and their communication
with Maestricht was cut off. Mareschal Saxe, on the other side, took his measures so well,
that they were utterly deprived of all subsistence. Then prince Charles, retiring across the
Maese, abandoned Namur to the efforts of the enemy, by whom it was immediately invested. The
trenches were opened on the second day of September; and the garrison, consisting of seven
thousand Austrian-s, defended themselves with equal skill and resolution; but the cannonading
and bombardment were so terrible, that in a few days the place was converted into a heap of
rubbish; and on the twenty-third day of the month the French monarch took possession of this
strong fortress, which had formerly sustained such dreadful attacks. Meanwhile the allied army
encamped at Maestricht, were joined by sir John Ligonier with some British and Bavarian battalions;
and prince Charles resolved to give the enemy battle. With this view he passed the Maese on
the thirteenth day of September, and advanced towards mareschal Saxe, whom he found so advantageously
posted at Tongres, that he thought proper to march back to Maestricht. On the twenty-sixth
day of September he crossed the Jaar in his retreat; and his rear was attacked by the enemy,
who were repulsed. But count Saxe being reinforced by a body of troops under the count de Clermont,
determined to bring the confederates to an engagement. On the thirteenth day of the month he
passed the Jaar; while they took possession of the villages of Liers, Warem, and Roucoux, drew
up their forces in order of battle, and made preparations for giving him a warm reception.
On the first day of October the enemy advanced in three columns; and a terrible cannonading
began about noon. At two o'clock prince Waldeck on the left was charged with great fury; and,
after an obstinate defence, overpowered by numbers. The villages were attacked in columns,
and as one brigade was repulsed another succeeded; so that the allies were obliged to abandon
these posts, and retreat towards Maestricht, with the loss of five thousand men and thirty
pieces of artillery. The victory, however, cost the French general a much greater number of
lives; and was attended with no solid advantage. Sir John ligonier, the earls of Crawford [301]
[See note 2 O, at the end of this Vol.] and Rothes, brigadier Douglas, and other officers of
the British troops, distinguished themselves by their gallantry and conduct on this occasion.
This action terminated the campaign. The allies passing the Maese, took up their winter-quarters
in the duchies of Limeburgh and Luxembourg; while the French cantoned their troops in the places
which they had newly conquered.

THE FRENCH AND SPANIARDS ABANDON PIEDMONT AND THE MILANESE.

The campaign in Italy was altogether unfavourable to the French and Spaniards. The house of
Austria being no longer pressed on the side of Germany, was enabled to make the stronger efforts
in this country; and the British subsidy encouraged the king of Sardinia to act with redoubled
vivacity. Mareschal Maillebois occupied the greater part of Piedmont with about thirty thousand
men. Don Philip and the count de Gages were at the head of a greater number in the neighbourhood
of Milan; and the duke of Modena, with eight thousand, secured his own dominions. The king
of Sardinia augmented his forces to six-and-thirty thousand; and the Austrian army, under the
prince of Lichtenstein, amounted to a much greater number; so that the enemy were reduced to
the necessity of acting on the defensive, and retired towards the Mantuan. In February, baron
Leutrum, the Piedmontese general, invested and took the strong fortress of Aste. He afterwards
relieved the citadel of Alexandria, which the Spaniards had blocked up in the winter, reduced
Casal, recovered Valencia, and obliged Maillebois to retire to the neighbourhood of Genoa.
On the other side, Don Philip and count Gages abandoned Milan, Pavia, and Parma, retreating
before the Austrians with the utmost precipitation to Placentia, where they were joined on
the third of June by the French forces under Maillebois.

Before this junction was effected, the Spanish general Pignatelli had passed the river Po in
the night with a strong detachment, and beaten up the quarters of seven thousand Austrians
posted at Codogno. Don Philip, finding himself at the head of two-and-fifty thousand men by
his junction with the French general, resolved to attack the Austrians in their camp at San
Lazaro, before they should be reinforced by his Sardinian majesty. Accordingly, on the fourth
day of June, in the evening, he marched with equal silence and expedition, and entered the
Austrian trenches about eleven, when a desperate battle ensued. The Austrians were prepared
for the attack, which they sustained with great vigour till morning. Then they quitted their
intrench-ments, and charged the enemy in their turn with such fury, that after an obstinate
resistance the combined army was broke, and retired with precipitation to Placentia, leaving
on the field fifteen thousand men killed, wounded, and taken, together with sixty colours and
ten pieces of artillery. In a few weeks the Austrians were joined by the Piedmontese; the king
of Sardinia assumed the chief command; and prince Lichtenstein being indisposed, his place
was supplied by the marquis de Botta. Don Philip retired to the other side of the Po, and extended
his conquests in the open country of the Milanese. The king of Sardinia called a council of
war, in which it was determined that he should pass the river with a strong body of troops,
in order to straiten the enemy on one side; while the marquis de Botta should march up the
Tydone, to cut off their communication with Placentia. They forthwith quitted all the posts
they had occupied between the Lambro and Adda, resolving to repass the Po and retreat to Tortona.
With, this view they threw bridges of boats over that river, and began to pass on the ninth
day of August in the evening. They were attacked at Rotto Freddo by a detachment of Austrians,
under general Serbelloni, who maintained the engagement till ten in the morning, when Botta
arrived; the battle was renewed with redoubled rage, and lasted till four in the afternoon,
when the enemy retired in great disorder to Tortona, with the loss of eight thousand men, a
good number of colours and standards, and eighteen pieces of cannon. This victory cost the
Austrians four thousand men killed upon the spot, including the gallant general Bernclau. The
victors immediately summoned Placentia to surrender; and the garrison, consisting of nine thousand
men, were made prisoners of war; Don Philip continued his retreat, and of all his forces brought
six-and-twenty thousand only into the territories of Genoa.

THE AUSTRIANS TAKE POSSESSION OF GENOA. COUNT BROWN ENTERS PROVENCE.

The Piedmontese and Austrians rejoining in the neighbourhood of Pavia, advanced to Tortona,
of which they took possession without resistance, while the enemy sheltered themselves under
the cannon of Genoa. They did not long continue in this situation; for on the twenty-second
day of August they were again in motion, and retired into Provence. The court of Madrid imputing
the bad success of this campaign to the misconduct of count Gages, recalled that general, and
sent the marquis de las Minas to resume the command of the forces. In the meantime, the victorious
confederates appeared before Genoa on the fourth day of December; and the senate of that city
thinking it incapable of defence, submitted to a very mortifying capitulation, by which the
gates were delivered up to the Austrians, together with all their arms, artillery, and ammunition;
and the city was subjected to the most cruel contributions. The marquis de Botta being left
at Genoa with sixteen thousand men, the king of Sardinia resolved to pass the Var, and pursue
the French and Spaniards into Provence; but that monarch being seized with the small-pox, the
conduct of this expedition was entrusted to count Brown, an Austrian general of Irish extract,
who had given repeated proofs of uncommon valour and capacity. He was on this occasion assisted
by vice-admiral Medley, who commanded the British squadron in the Mediterranean. The French
forces had fortified the passes of the Var, under the conduct of the mareschal de Belleisle,
who thought proper to abandon his posts at the approach of count Brown; and this general, at
the head of fifty thousand men, passed the river without opposition, on the ninth day of November.
While he advanced as far as Draguignan, laying the open country under contribution, baron Both,
with four-and-twenty battalions, invested Antibes, which was at the same time bombarded on
the side of the sea by the British squadron. The trenches were opened on the twentieth day
of September; but Belleisle having assembled a numerous army, superior to that of the confederates,
and the Genoese having expelled their Austrian guests, count Brown abandoned the enterprise,
and repassed the Var, not without some damage from the enemy.

THE GENOESE EXPEL THE AUSTRIANS.

The court of Vienna, which has always patronised oppression, exacted such heavy contribution
from the Genoese, and its directions were so rigorously put in execution, that the people were
reduced to despair; and resolved to make a last effort for the recovery of their liberty and
independence. Accordingly, they took arms in secret, seized several important posts of the
city; surprised some battalions of the Austrians; surrounded others, and cut them in pieces;
and, in a word, drove them out with great slaughter. The marquis de Botta acted with caution
and spirit; but being overpowered by numbers, and apprehensive of the peasants in the country,
who were in arms, he retreated to the pass of the Brochetta on the side of Lombardy, where
he secured himself in an advantageous situation, until he could receive reinforcements. The
loss he had sustained at Genoa did not hinder him from reducing Savona, a sea-port town belonging
to that republic; and he afterwards made himself master of Gavi. The Genoese, on the contrary,
exerted themselves with wonderful industry in fortifying their city, raising troops, and in
taking other measures for a vigorous defence, in case they should again be insulted.

MADRAS TAKEN BY THE FRENCH.

The naval transactions of this year reflected very little honour on the British nation. Commodore
Peyton, who commanded six ships of war in the East Indies, shamefully declined a decisive engagement
with a French squadron of inferior force; and abandoned the important settlement of Madras
on the coast of Coromandel, which was taken without opposition in the month of September by
the French commodore, de la Bourdonnais. Fort St. David, and the other British factories in
India, would probably have shared the same fate, had not the enemy's naval force in that country
been shattered and partly destroyed by a terrible tempest. No event of consequence happened
in America, though it was a scene that seemed to promise the greatest success to the arms of
England. The reduction of Cape Breton had encouraged the ministry to project the conquest of
Quebec, the capital of Canada, situated upon the river St. Lawrence. Commissions were sent
to the governors of the British colonies in North America, empowering them to raise companies
to join the armament from England; and eight thousand troops were actually raised in consequence
of these directions; while a powerful squadron and transports, having six regiments on board,
were prepared at Portsmouth for this expedition. But their departure was postponed by unaccountable
delays, until the season was judged too far advanced to risk the great ships on the boisterous
coast of North America. That the armament, however, might not be wholly useless to the nation,
it was employed in making a descent upon the coast of Bretagne, on the supposition that Port
L'Orient, the repository of all the stores and ships belonging to the French East India company,
might be surprised; or, that this invasion would alarm the enemy, and, by making a diversion,
facilitate the operations of the Austrian general in Provence.

The naval force intended for this service consisted of sixteen great ships, and eight frigates,
besides bomb-ketches and store ships, commanded by Richard Lestock, appointed admiral of the
blue division. Six battalions of land troops, with a detachment of matrosses and bombardiers,
were embarked in thirty transports, under the conduct of lieutenant-general Sinclair; and the
whole fleet set sail from Plymouth on the fourteenth day of September. On the twentieth the
troops were landed in Quimperlay-bay, at the distance of ten miles from Port L'Orient. The
militia, reinforced by some detachments from different regiments, were assembled to the number
of two thousand, and seemed resolved to oppose the disembarkation; but seeing the British troops
determined to land at all events, they thought proper to retire. Next day general Sinclair
advanced into the country, skirmishing with the enemy in his route; and arriving at the village
of Plemure, within half a league from Port L'Orient, summoned that place to surrender. He was
visited by a deputation from the town, which offered to admit the British forces, on condition
that they should be restrained from pillaging the inhabitants, and touching the magazines;
and that they should pay a just price for their provisions. These terms being rejected, the
inhabitants prepared for a vigorous defence; and the English general resolved to besiege the
place in form, though he had neither time, artillery, nor forces sufficient for such an enterprise.
This strange resolution was owing to the declaration of the engineers, who promised to lay
the place in ashes in the space of four-and-twenty hours. All his cannon amounted to no more
than a few field-pieces; and he was obliged to wait for two iron guns, which the sailors dragged
up from the shipping. Had he given the assault on the first night after his arrival, when the
town was filled with terror and confusion, and destitute of regular troops, in all probability
it would have been easily taken by scalade; but the reduction of it was rendered impracticable
by his delay. The ramparts were mounted with cannon from the ships in the harbour; new works
were raised with great industry; the garrison was reinforced by several bodies of regular troops;
and great numbers were assembling from all parts; so that the British forces were in danger
of being surrounded in an enemy's country. Notwithstanding these discouragements, they opened
a small battery against the town, which was set on fire in several places by their bombs and
red-hot bullets; they likewise repulsed part of the garrison which had made a sally to destroy
their works; but their cannon producing no effect upon the fortifications, the fire from the
town daily increasing, the engineers owning they could not perform their promise, and admiral
Lestock declaring, in repeated messages, that he could no longer expose the ships on an open
coast at such a season of the year, general Sinclair abandoned the siege. Having caused the
two iron pieces of cannon and the mortars to be spiked, he retreated in good order to the sea-side,
where his troops were re-embarked, having sustained very inconsiderable damage since their
first landing. He expected reinforcements from England, and was resolved to wait a little longer
for their arrival, in hopes of being able to annoy the enemy more effectually. In the beginning
of October, the fleet sailed to Quiberon-bay, where they destroyed the Ardent, a French ship
of war of sixty-four guns; and a detachment of the forces being landed, took possession of
a fort in the peninsula; while the little islands of Houat and Hey die were reduced by the
sailors. In this situation the admiral and general continued till the seventeenth day of the
month, when the forts being dismantled, and the troops re-embarked, the fleet sailed from the
French coast; the admiral returned to England, and the transports with the soldiers proceeded
to Ireland, where they arrived in safety.

NAVAL TRANSACTIONS in the WEST INDIES.

This expedition, weak and frivolous as it may seem, was resented by the French nation as one
of the greatest insults they had ever sustained; and demonstrated the possibility of hurting
France in her tenderest parts, by means of an armament of this nature, well timed, and vigorously
conducted. Indeed, nothing could be more absurd or precipitate than an attempt to distress
the enemy by landing a handful of troops, without draught-horses, tents, or artillery, from
a fleet of ships lying on an open beach, exposed to the uncertainty of weather in the most
tempestuous season of the year, so as to render the retreat and re-embarkation altogether precarious.
The British squadrons in the West Indies performed no exploit of consequence in the course
of this year. The commerce was but indifferently protected. Commodore Lee, stationed off Martinico,
allowed a French fleet of merchant-ships, and their convoy, to pass by his squadron unmolested;
and commodore Mitchel behaved scandalously in a rencontre with the French squadron, under the
conduct of monsieur de Conflans, who in his return to Europe took the Severn, an English ship
of fifty guns. The cruisers on all sides, English, French, and Spaniards, were extremely alert;
and though the English lost the greater number of ships, this difference was more than overbalanced
by the superior value of the prizes taken from the enemy. In the course of this year, two-and-twenty
Spanish privateers, and sixty-six merchant vessels, including ten register ships, fell into
the hands of the British cruisers; from the French they took seven ships of war, ninety privateers,
and about three hundred ships of commerce. The new king of Spain* being supposed well-affected
to the British nation, an effort was made to detach him from the interests of France, by means
of the marquis de Tabernega, who had formerly been his favourite, and resided many years as
a refugee in England.

     * In the month of July, Philip king of Spain dying, in the
     sixty-third year of his age, was succeeded by his eldest son
     Ferdinand, born of Maria-Louisa Gabriela, sister to the late
     king of Sardinia. He espoused Donna Maria Magdalena, infanta
     of Portugal, but had no issue. Philip was but two days
     survived by his daughter, the dauphiness of France. The same
     month was remarkable for the death of Christian VI., king
     of Denmark, succeeded by his son Frederick V., who had
     married the princess Louisa, youngest daughter of the king
     of Great Britain.

This nobleman proceeded to Lisbon, where a negotiation was set on foot with the court of Madrid.
But his efforts miscarried; and the influence of the queen-mother continued to predominate
in the Spanish councils. The states-general had for some years endeavoured to promote a pacification
by remonstrances, and even entreaties, at the court of Versailles; the French king at length
discovered an inclination to peace, and in September a congress was opened at Breda, the capital
of Dutch Brabant, where the plenipotentiaries of the emperor, Great Britain, France, and Holland,
were assembled; but the French were so insolent in their demands, that the conferences were
soon interrupted.

The parliament of Great Britain meeting in November, the king exhorted them to concert with
all possible expedition the proper measures for pursuing the war with vigour, that the confederate
army in the Netherlands might be seasonably augmented; he likewise gave them to understand,
that the funds appropriated for the support of his civil government had for some years past
fallen short of the revenue intended and granted by parliament; and said he relied on their
known affection to find out some method to make good this deficiency. As all those who had
conducted the opposition were now concerned in the administration, little or no objection was
made to any demand or proposal of the government and its ministers. The commons having considered
the estimates, voted forty thousand seamen for the service of the ensuing year, and about sixty
thousand land-forces, including eleven thousand five hundred marines. They granted four hundred
and thirty-three thousand pounds to the empress queen of Hungary; three hundred thousand pounds
to the king of Sardinia; four hundred and ten thousand pounds for the maintenance of eighteen
thousand Hanoverian auxiliaries; one hundred and sixty one thousand six hundred and seven pounds
for six thousand Hessians; subsidies to the electors of Cologn, Mentz, and Bavaria; and the
sum of five hundred thousand pounds to enable his majesty to prosecute the war with advantage.
In a word, the supplies amounted to nine millions four hundred and twenty-five thousand two
hundred and fifty-four pounds; a sum almost incredible, if we consider how the kingdom had
been already drained of its treasure. It was raised by the usual taxes, reinforced with new
impositions on windows, carriages, and spirituous liquors; a lottery, and a loan from the sinking-fund.
The new taxes were mortgaged for four millions by transferable annuities, at an interest of
four, and a premium of ten per centum. By reflecting on these enormous grants, one would imagine
the ministry had been determined to impoverish the nation; but from the eagerness and expedition
with which the people subscribed for the money, one would conclude that the riches of the kingdom
were inexhaustible. It may not be amiss to observe, that the supplies of this year exceeded,
by two millions and a half, the greatest annual sum that was raised during the reign of queen
Anne, though she maintained as great a number of troops as was now in the pay of Great Britain,
and her armies and fleets acquired every year fresh harvests of glory and advantage; whereas
this war had proved an almost uninterrupted series of events big with disaster and dishonour.
During the last two years, the naval expense of England had exceeded that of France about five
millions sterling; though her fleets had not obtained one signal advantage over the enemy at
sea, nor been able to protect her commerce from their depredations. She was at once a prey
to her declared adversaries and professed friends. Before the end of summer, she numbered among
her mercenaries two empresses, five German princes, and a powerful monarch, whom she hired
to assist her in trimming the balance of Europe, in which they themselves were immediately
interested, and she had no more than a secondary concern. Had these fruitless subsidies been
saved; had the national revenue been applied with economy to national purposes; had it been
employed in liquidating gradually the public incumbrances: in augmenting the navy, improving
manufactures, encouraging and securing the colonies, and extending trade and navigation; corruption
would have become altogether unnecessary, and disaffection would have vanished: the people
would have been eased of their burdens, and ceased to complain; commerce would have flourished,
and produced such affluence as must have raised Great Britain to the highest pinnacle of maritime
power, above all rivalship of competition. She would have been dreaded by her enemies; revered
by her neighbours; oppressed nations would have crept under her wings for protection; contending
potentates would have appealed to her decision; and she would have shone the universal arbitress
of Europe. How different is her present situation! her debts are enormous, her taxes intolerable,
her people discontented, and the sinews of her government relaxed. Without conduct, confidence,
or concert, she engages in blundering negotiations; she involves herself rashly in foreign
quarrels, and lavishes her substance with the most dangerous precipitation; she is even deserted
by her wonted vigour, steadiness, and intrepidity; she grows vain, fantastical, and pusillanimous;
her arms are despised by her enemies; and her councils ridiculed through all Christendom.

PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED.

The king, in order to exhibit a specimen of his desire to diminish the public expense, ordered
the third and fourth troops of his life-guards to be disbanded, and reduced three regiments
of horse to the quality of dragoons. The house of commons presented an address of thanks for
this instance of economy, by which the annual sum of seventy thousand pounds was saved to the
nation. Notwithstanding this seeming harmony between the king and the great council of the
nation, his majesty resolved, with the advice of his council, to dissolve the present parliament,
though the term of seven years was not yet expired since its first meeting. The ministry affected
to insinuate, that the states-general were unwilling to concur with his majesty in vigorous
measures against France, during the existence of a parliament which had undergone such a vicissitude
of complexion. The allies of Great Britain, far from being suspicious of this assembly, which
had supplied them so liberally, saw with concern that according to law it would soon be dismissed;
and they doubted whether another could be procured equally agreeable to their purposes. In
order to remove this doubt, the ministry resolved to surprise the kingdom with a new election,
before the malcontents should be prepared to oppose the friends of the government.

{1747}

Accordingly, when the business of the session was despatched, the king having given the royal
assent to the several acts they had prepared, dismissed them in the month of June, with an
affectionate speech that breathed nothing but tenderness and gratitude. The parliament was
immediately dissolved by proclamation, and new writs were issued for convoking another. Among
the laws passed in this session, was an act abolishing the heritable jurisdictions, and taking
away the tenure of wardholdings in Scotland, which were reckoned among the principal sources
of those rebellions that had been excited since the revolution. In the highlands they certainly
kept the common people in subjection to their chiefs, whom they implicitly followed and obeyed
in all their undertakings. The forfeited estates indeed were divided into small farms, and
let by the government on leases at an under value; so that those who had the good fortune to
obtain such leases tasted the sweets of independence; but the highlanders in general were left
in their original indigence and incapacity, at the mercy of their superiors. Had manufactures
and fisheries been established in different parts of their country, they would have seen and
felt the happy consequences of industry, and in a little time been effectually detached from
all their slavish connexions.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE FRENCH AND ALLIES TAKE THE FIELD IN FLANDERS.

The operations of the campaign had been concerted in the winter at the Hague, between the duke
of Cumberland and the states-general of the United Provinces, who were by this time generally
convinced of France's design to encroach upon their territories. They therefore determined
to take effectual measures against that restless and ambitious neighbour. The allied powers
agreed to assemble a vast army in the Netherlands; and it was resolved that the Austrians and
Piedmonte so should once more penetrate into Provence. The Dutch patriots, however, were not
roused into this exertion, until all their remonstrances had failed at the court of Versailles;
until they had been urged by repeated memorials of the English ambassador, and stimulated by
the immediate danger to which their country was exposed; for France was by this time possessed
of all the Austrian Netherlands, and seemed bent upon penetrating into the territories of the
United Provinces. In February, the duke of Cumberland began to assemble the allied forces;
and in the latter end of March they took the field in three separate bodies. His royal highness,
with the English, Hanoverians, and Hessians, fixed his head quarters at the village of Tilberg;
the prince of Waldeck was posted with the Dutch troops at Breda; and mareschal Bathiani collected
the Austrians and Bavarians in the neighbourhood of Venlo. The whole army amounted to one hundred
and twenty thousand men, who lay inactive six weeks, exposed to the inclemency of the weather,
and almost destitute of forage and provisions. Count Saxe, by this time created mareschal-general
of France, continued his troops within their cantonments at Bruges, Antwerp, and Brussels,
declaring, that when the allied army should be weakened by sickness and mortality, he would
convince the duke of Cumberland that the first duty of a general is to provide for the health
and preservation of his troops. In April this fortunate commander took the field, at the head
of one hundred and forty thousand men; and the count de Clermont commanded a separate body
of nineteen battalions and thirty squadrons. Count Lowendahl was detached on the sixteenth
of the month, with seven-and-twenty thousand men, to invade Dutch Flanders; at the same time,
the French minister at the Hague presented a memorial to the states, intimating, that his master
was obliged to take this step by the necessity of war; but that his troops should observe the
strictest discipline, without interfering with the religion, government, or commerce of the
republic; he likewise declared, that the countries and places of which he might be obliged
to take possession should be detained no otherwise than as a pledge, to be restored as soon
as the United Provinces should give convincing proofs that they would no longer furnish the
enemies of France with succours.

THE PRINCE OF ORANGE ELECTED STADTHOLDER.

While the states deliberated upon this declaration, count Lowendahl entered Dutch Brabant,
and invested the town and fortress of Sluys, the garrison of which surrendered themselves prisoners
of war on the nineteenth day of April. This was likewise the fate of Sas-van-Ghent, while the
marquis de Contades, with another detachment, reduced the forts Perle and Leifkenshoek, with
the town of Philippine, even within hearing of the confederate army. The fort of Sandberg was
vigorously defended by two English battalions; but they were overpowered, and obliged to retire
to Welsthoorden; and count Lowendahl undertook the siege of Hulst, which was shamefully surrendered
by La Roque the Dutch governor, though he knew that a reinforcement of nine battalions was
on the march to his relief. Then the French general took possession of Axel and Terneuse, and
began to prepare flat-bottomed boats for a descent on the island of Zealand. The Dutch people
were now struck with consternation. They saw the enemy at their doors, and owed their immediate
preservation to the British squadron stationed at the Swin, under the command of commodore
Mitchel,* who, by means of his sloops, tenders, and small craft, took such measures as defeated
the intention of Lowendahl. The common people in Zealand being reduced to despair, began to
clamour loudly against their governors, as if they had not taken the proper measures for their
security. The friends of the prince of Orange did not neglect this opportunity of promoting
his interest. They encouraged their discontent, and exaggerated the danger; they reminded them
of the year one thousand six hundred and seventy-two, when the French king was at the gates
of Amsterdam, and the republic was saved by the choice of a stadtholder; they exhorted them
to turn their eyes on the descendant of those heroes who had established the liberty and independence
of the United Provinces; they extolled his virtue and ability; his generosity, his justice,
his unshaken love to his country. The people in several towns, inflamed by such representations
to tumult and sedition, compelled their magistrates to declare the prince of Orange stadtholder.
He himself, in a letter to the states of Zealand, offered his services for the defence of the
province. On the twenty-eighth day of April he was nominated captain-general and admiral of
Zealand. Their example was followed by Rotterdam and the whole province of Holland; and on
the second day of May, the prince of Orange was, in the assembly of the states-general, invested
with the power and dignity of stadtholder, captain-general, and admiral of the United Provinces.
The vigorous consequences of this resolution immediately appeared. All commerce and contracts
with the French were prohibited; the peasants were armed and exercised; a resolution passed
for making a considerable augmentation of the army, a council of war was established for inquiring
into the conduct of the governors who had given up the frontier places; and orders were issued
to commence hostilities against the French, both by sea and land.

Meanwhile the duke of Cumberland took post with his whole army between the two Nethes, to cover
Bergen-op-Zoom and Maestricht; and Mareschal Saxe called in his detachments with a view to
hazard a general engagement. In the latter end of May the French king arrived at Brussels,
and his general resolved to undertake the siege of Maestricht. For this purpose he advanced
towards Louvain; and the confederates perceiving his drift, began their march to take post
between the town and the enemy. On the twentieth day of June they took possession of their
ground, and were drawn up in order of battle, with their right at Bilsen, and their left extending
to Wirle within a mile of Maestricht, having in the front of their left wing the village of
Laffeldt, in which they posted several battalions of British infantry. The French had taken
possession of the heights of Herdeeren, immediately above the allies; and both armies cannonaded
each other till the evening. In the morning the enemy's infantry marched down the hill in a
prodigious column, and attacked the village of Laffeldt, which was well fortified, and defended
with amazing obstinacy. The assailants suffered terribly in their approach from the cannon
of the confederates, which was served with surprising dexterity and success; and they met with
such a warm reception from the British musquetry as they could not withstand; but, when they
were broken and dispersed, fresh brigades succeeded with astonishing perseverance. The confederates
were driven out of the village; yet being sustained by three regiments, they measured back
their ground, and repulsed the enemy with great slaughter. Nevertheless, count Saxe continued
pouring in other battalions, and the French regained and maintained their footing in the village,
after it had been three times lost and carried. The action was chiefly confined to this post,
where the field exhibited a horrible scene of carnage. At noon the duke of Cumberland ordered
the whole left wing to advance against the enemy, whose infantry gave way; prince Waldeck led
up the centre; marshal Bathiani made a motion with the right wing towards Herdeeren, and victory
seemed ready to declare for the confederates, when the fortune of the day took a sudden turn
to their prejudice. Several squadrons of Dutch horse posted in the centre gave way, and flying
at full gallop, overthrew five battalions of infantry that were advancing from the body of
reserve. The French cavalry charged them with great impetuosity, increasing the confusion that
was already produced, and penetrating through the lines of the allied army, which was thus
divided about the centre. The duke of Cumberland, who exerted himself with equal courage and
activity in attempting to remedy this disorder, was in danger of being taken; and the defeat
would in all probability have been total, had not sir John Ligonier taken the resolution of
sacrificing himself and a part of the troops to the safety of the army. At the head of three
British regiments of dragoons, and some squadrons of imperial horse, he charged the whole line
of the French cavalry with such intrepidity and success, that he overthrew all that opposed
him, and made such a diversion as enabled the duke of Cumberland to effect an orderly retreat
to Maestricht. He himself was taken by a French carabinier, after his horse had been killed;
but the regiments he commanded retired with deliberation. The confederates retreated to Maestricht,
without having sustained much damage from the pursuit, and even brought off all their artillery,
except sixteen pieces of cannon. Their loss did not exceed six thousand men killed and taken;
whereas the French general purchased the victory at a much greater expense. The common cause
of the confederate powers is said to have suffered from the pride and ignorance of their generals.
On the eve of the battle, when the detachment of the count de Clermont appeared on the hill
of Herdeeren, marshal Bathiani asked permission of the commander-in-chief to attack them before
they should be reinforced, declaring he would answer for the success of the enterprise. No
regard was paid to this proposal; but the superior asked in his turn, where the marshal would
be in case he should be wanted? He replied, "I shall always be found at the head of my troops,"
and retired in disgust. The subsequent disposition has likewise been blamed, inasmuch as not
above one half of the army could act, while the enemy exerted their whole force.

SIEGE OF BERGEN-OP-ZOOM.

The confederates passed the Maese and encamped in the duchy of Limburgh, so as to cover Maestricht;
while the French king remained with his army in the neighbourhood of Tongres. Mareschal Saxe,
having amused the allies with marches and counter-marches, at length detached count Lowendahl
with six-and-thirty thousand men to besiege Bergen-op-Zoom, the strongest fortification of
Dutch Brabant, the favourite work of the famous engineer Coehorn, never conquered, and generally
esteemed invincible. It was secured with a garrison of three thousand men, and well provided
with artillery, ammunition, and magazines. The enemy appeared before it on the twelfth day
of July, and summoned the governor to surrender. The prince of Saxe-Hildburghausen was sent
to its relief, with twenty battalions and fourteen squadrons of the troops that could be most
conveniently assembled; he entered the lines of Bergen-op-Zooin, where he remained in expectation
of a strong reinforcement from the confederate army; and the old baron Cronstrom, whom the
stadtholder had appointed governor of Brabant, assumed the command of the garrison The besiegers
carried on their operations with great vivacity; and the troops in the town defended it with
equal vigour. The eyes of all Europe were turned upon this important siege; count Lowendahl
received divers reinforcements; and a considerable body of troops was detached from the allied
army, under the command of baron Schwartzenberg, to co-operate with the prince of Saxe-Hildburghausen.
The French general lost a great number of men by the close and continual fire of the besieged;
while he, in his turn, opened such a number of batteries, and plied them so warmly, that the
defences began to give way. From the sixteenth day of July to the fifteenth of September, the
siege produced an unintermitting scene of horror and destruction: desperate sallies were made,
and mines sprung with the most dreadful effect; the works began to be shattered; the town was
laid in ashes; the trenches were filled with carnage; nothing was seen but fire and smoke;
nothing heard but one continued roar of bombs and cannon. But still the damage fell chiefly
on the besiegers, who were slain in heaps; while the garrison suffered very little, and could
be occasionally relieved or reinforced from the lines. In a word, it was generally believed
that count Lowendahl would be baffled in his endeavours; and by this belief the governor of
Bergen-op-Zoom seems to have been lulled into a blind security. At length, some inconsiderable
breaches were made in one ravelin and two bastions, and these the French general resolved to
storm, though Cronstrom believed they were impracticable; ind on that supposition presumed
that the enemy would not attempt an assault. For this very reason count Lowendahl resolved
to hazard the attack, before the preparations should be made for his reception. He accordingly
regulated his dispositions, and at four o'clock in the morning, on the sixteenth day of September,
the signal was made for the assault. A prodigious quantity of bombs being thrown into the ravelin,
his troops threw themselves into the fosse, mounted the breaches, forced open a sally-port,
and entered the place almost without resistance. In a word, they had time to extend themselves
along the curtains, and form in order of battle, before the garrison could be assembled. Cronstrom
was asleep, and the soldiers upon duty had been surprised by the suddenness and impetuosity
of the attack. Though the French had taken possession of the ramparts, they did not gain the
town without opposition. Two battalions of the Scottish troops, in the pay of the states-general,
were assembled in the market-place, and attacked them with such fury, that they were driven
from street to street, until fresh reinforcements arriving, compelled the Scots to retreat
in their turn; yet they disputed every inch of ground, and fought until two thirds of them
were killed upon the spot. Then they brought off the old governor, abandoning the town to the
enemy; the troops that were encamped in the lines retreating with great precipitation, all
the forts in the neighbourhood immediately surrendered to the victors, who now became masters
of the whole navigation of the Schelde. The French king was no sooner informed of Lowendahl's
success, than he promoted him to the rank of mareschal of France; appointed count Saxe governor
of the conquered Netherlands; and returned in triumph to Versailles. In a little time after
this transaction, both armies were distributed into winter quarters, and the duke of Cumberland
embarked for England.

In Italy, the French arms did not triumph with equal success, though the mareschal de Belleisle
saw himself at the head of a powerful army in Provence. In April he passed the Var without
opposition, and took possession of Nice. He met with little or no resistance in reducing Montalban,
Villafranca, and Ventimiglia; while general Brown, with eight-and-twenty thousand Aus-trians,
retired towards Final and Savona. In the meantime, another large body under count Schuylemberg,
Who had succeeded the marquis de Botta, co-operated with fifteen thousand Piedmontese in an
attempt to recover the city of Genoa. The French king had sent their supplies, succours, and
engineers, with the duke de Boufflers, as ambassador to the republic, who likewise acted as
commander-in-chief of the forces employed for its defence. The Austrian general assembled his
troops in the Milanese, having forced the passage of the Bochetta on the thirteenth of January,
he advanced into the territories of Genoa, and the Eiviera was ravaged without mercy. On the
last day of March he appeared before the city at the head of forty thousand men, and summoned
the revolters to lay down their arms. The answer he received was, that the republic had fifty-four
thousand men in arms, two hundred and sixty cannon, thirty-four mortars, with abundance of
ammunition and provision; that they would defend their liberty with their last blood, and be
buried in the ruins of their capital, rather than submit to the clemency of the court of Vienna,
except by an honourable capitulation, guaranteed by the kings of Great Britain and Sardinia,
the republic of Venice and the United Provinces. In the beginning of May, Genoa was invested
on all sides; a furious sally was made by the duke de Boufflers, who drove the besiegers from
their posts; but the Austrians rallying, he was repulsed in his turn, with the loss of seven
hundred men. General Schuylemberg carried on his operations with such skill, vigour, and intrepidity,
that he made himself master of the suburbs of Bisagno; and in all probability would have reduced
the city, had he not been obliged to desist, in consequence of the repeated remonstrances made
by the king of Sardinia and count Brown, who represented the necessity of his abandoning his
enterprise, and drawing off his army to cover Piedmont and Lombardy from the efforts of mareschal
de Belleisle. Accordingly he raised the siege on the tenth day of June, and returned into the
Milanese in order to join his Sardinian majesty; while the Genoese made an irruption into the
Parmesan and Placentia, where they committed terrible outrages, in revenge for the mischiefs
they had undergone.

THE CHEVALIER DE BELLEISLE SLAIN.

While the mareschal de Belleisle remained at Ventimiglia, his brother, at the head of four-and-thirty
thousand French and Spaniards, attempted to penetrate into Piedmont: on the sixth day of July
he arrived at the pass of Exilles, a strong fortress on the frontiers of Dauphiné, situated
on the north side of the river Doria. The defence of this important post the king of Sardinia
had committed to the care of the count de Brigueras, who formed an encampment behind the lines,
with fourteen battalions of Piedmontese and Austrians, while divers detachments were posted
along all the passes of the Alps. On the eighth day of the month the Piedmontese intrenchments
were attacked by the chevalier de Belleisle, with incredible intrepidity; but the columns were
repulsed with great loss in three successive attacks. Impatient of this obstinate opposition,
and determined not to survive a miscarriage, this impetuous general seized a pair of colours,
and advancing at the head of his troops through a prodigious fire, pitched them with his own
hand on the enemy's entrenchments. At that instant he fell dead, having received two musquet-balls
and the thrust of a bayonet in his body. The assailants were so much dispirited by the death
of their commander, that they forthwith gave way, and retreated with precipitation towards
Sesteries, having lost near five thousand men in the attack. The mareschal was no sooner informed
of his brother's misfortune, than he retreated towards the Var to join the troops from Exilles,
while the king of Sardinia, having assembled an army of seventy thousand men, threatened Dauphiné
with an invasion; but the excessive rains prevented the execution of his design. General Leutrum
was detached with twenty battalions, to drive the French from Ventimiglia; but Belleisle marching
back, that scheme was likewise frustrated; and thus ended the campaign.

A FRENCH SQUADRON TAKEN.

In this manner was the French king baffled in his projects upon Italy; nor was he more fortunate
in his naval operations. He had in the preceding year equipped an expensive armament, under
the command of the duke d'Anville, for the recovery of Cape Breton; but it was rendered ineffectual
by storms, distempers, and the death of the commander. Not yet discouraged by these disasters,
he resolved to renew his efforts against the British colonies in North America, and their settlements
in the East Indies. For these purposes two squadrons were prepared at Brest, one to be commanded
by the commodore de la Jonquiere; and the other destined for India, by monsieur de St. George.
The ministry of Great Britain, being apprized of these measures, resolved to intercept both
squadrons, which were to set sail together. For this purpose vice-admiral Anson and rear-admiral
Warren took their departure from Plymouth with a formidable fleet, and steered their course
to Cape Finisterre on the coast of Gallicia. On the third day of May, they fell in with the
French squadrons, commanded by la Jonquiere and St. George, consisting of six large ships of
war, as many frigates, and four armed vessels equipped by their East India company, having
under their convoy about thirty ships laden with merchandise. Those prepared for war immediately
shortened sail, and formed a line of battle; while the rest, under the protection of the six
frigates, proceeded on their voyage with all the sail they could carry. The British squadron
was likewise drawn up in line of battle; but Mr. Warren, perceiving that the enemy began to
sheer off, now their convoy was at a considerable distance, advised admiral Anson to haul in
the signal for the line, and hoist another for giving chase and engaging, otherwise the French
would, in all probability, escape by favour of the night. The proposal was embraced; and in
a little time the engagement began with great fury, about four o'clock in the afternoon. The
enemy sustained the battle with equal conduct and valour, until they were overpowered by numbers,
and then they struck their colours. The admiral detached three ships in pursuit of the convoy,
nine sail of which were taken; but the rest were saved by the intervening darkness. About seven
hundred of the French were killed and wounded in this action. The English lost about five hundred;
and among these captain Grenville, commander of the ship Defiance. He was nephew to the lord
viscount Cobham, a youth of the most amiable character and promising genius, animated with
the noblest sentiments of honour and patriotism. Eager in the pursuit of glory, he rushed into
the midst of the battle, where both his legs were cut off by a cannon-ball. He submitted to
his fate with the most heroic resignation, and died universally lamented and beloved. The success
of the British arms in this engagement was chiefly owing to the conduct, activity, and courage
of the rear-admiral. A considerable quantity of bullion was found in the prizes, which was
brought to Spithead in triumph; and the treasure being landed, was conveyed in twenty waggons
to the bank of London. Admiral Anson was ennobled, and Mr. Warren honoured with the order of
the Bath.

ADMIRAL HAWKE OBTAINS ANOTHER VICTORY OVER THE FRENCH.

About the middle of June, commodore Fox, with six ships of war, cruising in the latitude of
Cape Ortegal in Gallicia, took above forty French ships, richly laden from St. Domingo, after
they had been abandoned by their convoy. But the French king sustained another more important
loss at sea, in the month of October. Rear-admiral Hawke sailed from Plymouth in the beginning
of August, with fourteen ships of the line, to intercept a fleet of French merchant ships bound
for the West Indies. He cruised for some time on the coast of Bretagne; and at length the French
fleet sailed from the isle of Aix, under convoy of nine ships of the line, besides frigates,
commanded by monsieur de Letendeur. On the fourteenth day of October, the two squadrons were
in sight of each other, in the latitude of Belleisle. The French commodore immediately ordered
one of his great ships, and the frigates, to proceed with the trading ships, while he formed
the line of battle, and waited the attack. At eleven in the forenoon admiral Hawke displayed
the signal to chase, and in half an hour both fleets were engaged. The battle lasted till night,
when all the French squadron, except the Intrepide and Ton-ant, had struck to the English flag.
These two capital ships escaped in the dark, and returned to Brest in a shattered condition.
The French captains sustained the unequal fight with uncommon bravery and resolution; and did
not yield until their ships were disabled. Their loss in men amounted to eight hundred: the
number of English killed in this engagement did not exceed two hundred, including captain Saumarez,
a gallant officer who had served under lord Anson in his expedition to the Pacific Ocean. Indeed
it must be owned, for the honour of that nobleman, that all these officers formed under his
example, and raised by his influence, approved themselves in all respects worthy of the commands
to which they were preferred. Immediately after the action, admiral Hawke despatched a sloop
to commodore Legge, whose squadron was stationed at the Leeward Islands, with intelligence
of the French fleet of merchant ships outward-bound, that he might take the proper measures
for intercepting them in their passage to Martinique and the other French islands. In consequence
of this advice he redoubled his vigilance, and a good number of them fell into his hands. Admiral
Hawke conducted his prizes to Spithead; and in his letter to the board of admiralty, declared
that all his captains behaved like men of honour during the engagement, except Mr. Fox, whose
conduct he desired might be subjected to an inquiry. That gentleman was accordingly tried by
a court-martial, and suspended from his command, for having followed the advice of his officers
contrary to his own better judgment; but he was soon restored, and afterwards promoted to the
rank of admiral; while Mr. Matthews, whose courage never incurred suspicion, still laboured
under suspension for that which had been successfully practised in both these late actions,
namely, engaging the enemy without any regard to the line of battle. In the Mediterranean,
vice-admiral Medley blocked up the Spanish squadron in Carthagena; assisted the Austrian general
on the coast of Villafranca; and intercepted some of the succours sent from France to the assistance
of the Genoese. At his death, which happened in the beginning of August, the command of that
squadron devolved upon rear-admiral Byng, who proceeded on the same plan of operation. In the
summer, two British ships of war, having under their convoy a fleet of merchant ships bound
to North America, fell in with the Glorioso, a Spanish ship of eighty guns, in the latitude
of the Western Isles. She had sailed from the Havannah with an immense treasure on board, and
must have fallen a prize to the English ships had each captain done his duty. Captain Erskine,
in the Warwick of sixty guns, attacked her with great intrepidity, and fought until his ship
was entirely disabled; but being unsustained by his consort, he was obliged to haul off, and
the Glorioso arrived in safety at Ferrol; there the silver was landed, and she proceeded on
her voyage to Cadiz, which, however, she did not reach. She was encountered by the Dartmouth,
a British frigate of forty guns, commanded by captain Hamilton, a gallant youth, who, notwithstanding
the inequality of force, engaged her without hesitation; but in the heat of the action, his
ship being set on fire by accident, was blown up, and-he perished with all his crew, except
a midshipman and ten or eleven sailors, who were taken up alive by a privateer that happened
to be in sight. Favourable as this accident may seem to the Glorioso, she did not escape. An
English ship of eighty guns, under the command of captain Buckle, came up and obliged the Spaniards
to surrender, after a short but vigorous engagement. Commodore Griffin had been sent, with
a reinforcement of ships, to assume the command of the squadron in the East Indies; and although
his arrival secured Fort St. David's and the other British settlements in that country, from
the insults of monsieur da la Bourdonnais, his strength was not sufficient to enable him to
undertake any enterprise of importance against the enemy; the ministry of England therefore
resolved to equip a fresh armament, that, when joined by the ships in India, should be in a
condition to besiege Pon-dicherry, the principal settlement belonging to the French on the
coast of Coromandel. For this service, a good number of independent companies was raised, and
set sail, in the sequel, with a strong squadron under the conduct of rear-admiral Boscawen,
an officer of unquestioned valour and capacity. In the course of this year, the British cruisers
were so alert and successful, that they took six hundred and forty-four prizes from the French
and Spaniards, whereas the loss of Great Britain in the same time did not exceed five hundred
and fifty.

CONGRESS AT AIX-LA-CHAPELLE.

All the belligerent powers were by this time heartily tired of a war which had consumed an
immensity of treasure, had been productive of so much mischief, and in the events of which,
all, in their turns, had found themselves disappointed. Immediately after the battle of Laffeldt,
the king of France had, in a personal conversation with sir John Ligonier, expressed his desire
of a pacification; and afterwards his minister at the Hague presented a declaration on the
same subject to the deputies of the states-general. The signal success of the British arms
at sea confirmed him in these sentiments, which were likewise reinforced by a variety of other
considerations. His finances were almost exhausted, and his supplies from the Spanish West
Indies rendered so precarious by the vigilance of the British cruisers, that he could no longer
depend upon their arrival. The trading part of his subjects had sustained such losses, that
his kingdom was filled with bankruptcies; and the best part of his navy now contributed to
strengthen the fleets of his enemies. The election of a stadtholder had united the whole power
of the states-general against him, in taking the most resolute measures for their own safety;
his views in Germany were entirely frustrated by the elevation of the grand duke to the Imperial
throne, and the re-establishment of peace between the houses of Austria and Bran-denburgh;
the success of his arms in Italy had not at all answered his expectation; and Genoa was become
an expensive ally. He had the mortification to see the commerce of Britain flourish in the
midst of war, while his own people were utterly impoverished. The parliament of England granted,
and the nation paid such incredible sums as enabled their sovereign not only to maintain invincible
navies and formidable armies, but likewise to give subsidies to all the powers of Europe. He
knew that a treaty of this kind was actually upon the anvil between his Britannic majesty and
the czarina, and he began to be apprehensive of seeing an army of Russians in the Netherlands.
His fears from this quarter were not without foundation. In the month of November, the earl
of Hyndford, ambassador from the king of Great Britain at the court of Russia, concluded a
treaty of subsidy, by which the czarina engaged to hold in readiness thirty thousand men, and
forty galleys, to be employed in the service of the confederates on the first requisition.
The states-general acceded to this agreement, and even consented to pay one-fourth of the subsidy.
His most christian majesty, moved by these considerations, made further advances towards an
accommodation both at the Plague and in London; and the contending powers agreed to another
congress, which was actually opened in March at Aix-la-Chapelle, where the earl of Sandwich
and sir Thomas Robinson assisted as plenipotentiaries from the king of Great Britain.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

COMPLIANT TEMPER OF THE NEW PARLIAMENT.

The elections for the new parliament in England had been conducted so as fully to answer the
purposes of the duke of Newcastle, and his brother Mr. Pelham, who had for some time wholly
engrossed the administration. Both houses were assembled on the tenth day of November, when
Mr. Onslow was unanimously reelected speaker of the commons. The session was opened as usual
by a speech from the throne, congratulating them on the signal successes of the British navy,
and the happy alteration in the government of the United Provinces. His majesty gave them to
understand that a congress would speedily be opened at Aix-la-Chapelle, to concert the means
for effecting a general pacification; and reminded them that nothing would more conduce to
the success of this negotiation than the vigour and unanimity of their proceedings. He received
such addresses as the ministers were pleased to dictate. Opposition now languished at their
feet. The duke of Bedford was become a courtier, and in a little time appointed secretary of
state, in the room of the earl of Chesterfield, who had lately executed that office, which
he now resigned; and the earl of Sandwich no longer harangued against the administration. This
new house of commons, in imitation of the liberality of their predecessors, readily gratified
all the requests of the government. They voted forty thousand seamen, forty-nine thousand land
forces, besides eleven thousand five hundred marines; the subsidies for the queen of Hungary,
the czarina, the king of Sardinia, the electors of Mentz and Bavaria, the Hessians, and the
duke of Wolfenbuttle; the sum of two hundred and thirty-five thousand seven hundred and forty-nine
pounds, was granted to the provinces of New England, to reimburse them for the expense of reducing
Cape Breton; five hundred thousand pounds were given to his majesty for the vigorous prosecution
of the war; and about one hundred and fifty-two thousand pounds to the Scottish claimants,
in lieu of their jurisdiction. The supplies for the ensuing year fell very little short of
nine millions, of which the greater part was raised on a loan by subscription, chargeable on
a new subsidy of poundage exacted from all merchandise imported into Great Britain. Immediately
after the rebellion was suppressed, the legislature had established some regulations in Scotland,
which were thought necessary to prevent such commotions for the future. The highlanders were
disarmed, and an act passed for abolishing their peculiarity of garb, which was supposed to
keep up party distinctions, to encourage their martial disposition, and preserve the memory
of the exploits achieved by their ancestors. In this session a bill was brought in to enforce
the execution of that law, and passed with another act for the more effectual punishment of
high treason in the highlands of Scotland. The practice of insuring French and Spanish ships
at London being deemed the sole circumstances that prevented a total stagnation of commerce
in those countries, it was prohibited by law under severe penalties; and this step of the British
parliament accelerated the conclusion of the treaty. Several other prudent measures were taken
in the course of this session, for the benefit of the public; and among these we may reckon
an act for encouraging the manufacture of indigo in the British plantations of North America;
an article for which Great Britain used to pay two hundred thousand pounds yearly to the subjects
of France.

{1748}

The session was closed on the thirteenth day of May, when the king declared to both houses
that the preliminaries of a general peace were actually signed at Aix-la-Chapelle, by the ministers
of Great Britain, France, and the United Provinces; and that the basis of this accommodation
was a general restitution of the conquests which had been made during the war. Immediately
after the prorogation of parliament his majesty set out for his German dominions, after having
appointed a regency to rule the realm in his absence.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE CAMPAIGN IN THE NETHERLANDS.

The articles might have been made much less unfavourable to Great Britain and her allies, had
the ministry made a proper use of the treaty with the czarina; and if the confederates had
acted with more vigour and expedition in the beginning of the campaign. The Russian auxiliaries
might have been transported by sea to Lubeck before the end of the preceding summer', in their
own galleys, which had been lying ready for use since the month of July. Had this expedient
been used, the Russian troops would have joined the confederate army before the conclusion
of the last campaign. But this easy and expeditious method of conveyance was rejected for a
march by land, of incredible length and difficulty, which could not be begun before the month
of January, nor accomplished till Midsummer. The operations of the campaign had been concerted
at the Hague in January, by the respective ministers of the allies, who resolved to bring an
army of one hundred and ninety thousand men into the Netherlands, in order to compel the French
to abandon the barrier which they had conquered, The towns of Holland became the scenes of
tumult and insurrection. The populace plundered the farmers of the revenue, abolished the taxes,
and insulted the magistrates; so that the states-general, seeing their country on the brink
of anarchy and confusion, authorized the prince of Orange to make such alterations as he should
see convenient. They presented him with a diploma, by which he was constituted hereditary stadtholder
and captain-general of Dutch Brabant, Flanders, and the upper quarter of Guelderland; and the
East India company appointed him director and governor-general of their commerce and settlements
in the Indies. Thus invested with authority unknown to his ancestors, he exerted himself with
equal industry and discretion in new modelling, augmenting, and assembling the troops of the
republic. The confederates knew that the count de Saxe had a design upon Maestricht: the Austrian
general Bathiani made repeated remonstrances to the British ministry, entreating them to take
speedy measures for the preservation of that fortress. He, in the month of January, proposed
that the duke of Cumberland should cross the sea, and confer with the prince of Orange on this
subject; he undertook, at the peril of his head, to cover Maastricht with seventy thousand
men, from all attacks of the enemy: but his representations seemed to have made very little
impression on those to whom they were addressed. The duke of Cumberland did not depart from
England till towards the latter end of February; part of March was elapsed before the transports
sailed from the Nore with the additional troops and artillery; and the last drafts from the
foot-guards were not embarked till the middle of August.

SIEGE OF MAESTRICHT. FORMS A CESSATION.

The different bodies of the confederate forces joined each other and encamped in the neighbourhood
of Euremond, to the number of one hundred and ten thousand men; and the French army invested
Maestricht, without opposition, on the third day of April. The garrison consisted of Imperial
and Dutch troops, under the conduct of the governor, baron de Aylva, who defended the place
with extraordinary skill and resolution. He annoyed the besiegers in repeated sallies; but
they were determined to surmount all opposition, and prosecuted their approaches with incredible
ardour. They assaulted the covered way, and there effected a lodgement, after an obstinate
dispute, in which they lost two thousand of their best troops; but next day they were entirely
dislodged by the gallantry of the garrison. These hostilities were suddenly suspended, in consequence
of the preliminaries signed at Aix-la-Chapelle. The plenipotentiaries agreed, that, for the
glory of his christian majesty's arms, the town of Maestricht should be surrendered to his
general, on condition that it should be restored with all the magazines and artillery. He accordingly
took possession of it on the third day of May, when the garrison marched out with all the honours
of war; and a cessation of arms immediately ensued. By this time the Russian auxiliaries, to
the number of thirty-seven thousand, commanded by prince Repnin, had arrived in Moravia, where
they were reviewed by their imperial majesties; then they proceeded to the confines of Franconia,
where they were ordered to halt, after they had marched seven hundred miles since the beginning
of the year. The French king declared, that should they advance farther, he would demolish
the fortifications of Maestricht and Bergen-op-Zoom. This dispute was referred to the plenipotentiaries,
who, in the beginning of August, concluded a convention, importing that the Russian troops
should return to their own country; and that the French king should disband an equal number
of his forces. The season being far advanced, the Russians were provided with winter-quarters
in Bohemia and Moravia, where they continued till the spring, when they marched back to Livonia.
In the meantime seven-and-thirty thousand French troops were withdrawn from Flanders into Picardy,
and the two armies remained quiet till the conclusion of the definitive treaty. The suspension
of arms was proclaimed at London, and in all the capitals of the contracting powers; orders
were sent to the respective admirals in different parts of the world, to refrain from hostilities;
and a communication of trade and intelligence was again opened between the nations which had
been at variance. No material transaction distinguished the campaign in Italy. The French and
Spanish troops, who had joined the Genoese in the territories of the republic, amounted to
thirty thousand men, under the direction of the duke de Richlieu, who was sent from France
to assume that command on the death of the duke de Boufflers; while mareschal de Belleisle,
at the head of fifty thousand men, covered the western Eiviera, which was threatened with an
invasion by forty thousand Austrians and Piedmontese, under general Leutrum. At the same time
general Brown, with a more numerous army, prepared to re-enter the eastern Eiviera, and recommence
the siege of Genoa. But these intended operations were prevented by an armistice, which took
place as soon as the belligerent powers had acceded to the preliminaries.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.

In the East Indies, rear-admiral Boscawen undertook the siege of Pondicherry, which in the
month of August he blocked up by sea with his squadron, and invested by land with a small army
of four thousand Europeans, and about two thousand natives of that country. He prosecuted the
enterprise with great spirit, and took the fort of Area Coupan, at the distance of three miles
from the town; then he made his approaches to the place, against which he opened batteries,
while it was bombarded and cannonaded by the shipping. But the fortifications were so strong,
the garrison so numerous, and the engineers of the enemy so expert in their profession, that
he made very little progress, and sustained considerable damage. At length, his army being
diminished by sickness, and the rainy season approaching, he ordered the artillery and stores
to be re-embarked; and raising the siege on the sixth day of October, returned to fort St.
David, after having lost about a thousand men in this expedition. In the sequel, several ships
of his squadron, and above twelve hundred sailors, perished in a hurricane. The naval force
of Great Britain was more successful in the West Indies. Bear-admiral Knowles, with a squadron
of eight ships, attacked fort Louis, on the South side of Hispaniola, which after a warm action
of three hours was surrendered on capitulation, and dismantled. Then he made an abortive attempt
upon St. Jago de Cuba, and returned to Jamaica, extremely chagrined at his disappointment,
which he imputed to the misconduct of captain Dent, who was tried in England by a court-martial,
and honourably acquitted. On the first of October, the same admiral, cruising in the neighbourhood
of the Havannah with eight ships of the line, encountered a Spanish squadron of nearly the
same strength, under the command of the admirals Beggio and Spinola. The engagement began between
two and three o'clock in the afternoon, and continued with intervals till eight in the evening,
when the enemy retired to the Havannah, with the loss of two ships; one of which struck to
the British admiral, and the other was two days after set on fire by her own commander, that
she might not fall into the hands of the English. Mr. Knowles taxed some of his captains with
misbehaviour, and they recriminated on his conduct. On their return to England, a court-martial
was the consequence of the mutual accusations. Those who adhered to the commander, and the
others whom he impeached, were inflamed against each other with the most rancorous resentment.
The admiral himself did not escape uncensured; two of his captains were reprimanded; but captain
Holmes, who had displayed uncommon courage, was honourably acquitted. Their animosities did
not end with the court-martial. A bloodless encounter happened between the admiral and captain
Powlet; but captain Innes and captain Clarke, meeting by appointment in Hyde-Park with pistols,
the former was mortally wounded, and died next morning; the latter was tried, and condemned
for murder, but indulged with his majesty's pardon. No naval transaction of any consequence
happened in the European seas during the course of this summer. In January, indeed, the Magnanime,
a French ship of the line, was taken in the channel by two English cruisers, after an obstinate
engagement; and the privateers took a considerable number of merchant ships from the enemy.

CONCLUSION OF THE DEFINITIVE TREATY AT AIX-LA-CHAPELLE.

The plenipotentiaries still continued at Aix-la-Cha-pelle, discussing all the articles of the
definitive treaty, which was at length concluded and signed on the seventh of October. It was
founded on former treaties, which were now expressly confirmed, from that of Westphalia to
the last concluded at London and Vienna. The contracting parties agreed, that all prisoners
on each side should be mutually released, without ransom, and all conquests restored; that
the duchies of Parma, Placentia, and Guastalla, should be ceded as a settlement to the infant
don Philip, and the heirs male of his body; but in case of his ascending the throne of Spain,
or of the two Sicilies, or his dying without male issue, that they should revert to the house
of Austria; that the king of Great Britain should, immediately after the ratification of this
treaty, send two persons of rank and distinction, to reside in France, as hostages, until restitution
should be made of Cape Breton, and all the other conquests which his Britannic majesty should
have achieved in the East or West Indies, before or after the preliminaries were signed; that
the assiento contract, with the article of the annual ship, should be confirmed for four years,
during which the enjoyment of that privilege was suspended since the commencement of the present
war; that Dunkirk should remain fortified on the land side, and towards the sea continue on
the footing of former treaties. All the contracting powers became guarantees to the king of
Prussia for the duchy of Silesia and the county of Glatz, as he at present possessed them;
and they likewise engaged to secure the empress-queen of Hungary and Bohemia in possession
of her hereditary dominions, according to the pragmatic sanction. The other articles regulated
the forms and times fixed for this mutual restitution, as well as for the termination of hostilities
in different parts of the world. But the right of English subjects to navigate in the American
seas, without being subject to search, was not once mentioned, though this claim was the original
source of the differences between Great Britain and Spain; nor were the limits of Acadia ascertained.
This and all other disputes were left to the discussion of commissaries. We have already observed,
that after the troubles of the empire began, the war was no longer maintained on British principles.
It became a continental contest, and was prosecuted on the side of the allies without conduct,
spirit, or unanimity. In the Netherlands they were outnumbered, and outwitted by the enemy.
They never hazarded a battle without sustaining a defeat. Their vast armies, paid by Great
Britain, lay inactive, and beheld one fortress reduced after another until the whole country
was subdued; and as their generals fought, their plenipotentiaries negotiated. At a time when
their affairs began to wear the most promising aspect, when the arrival of the Russian auxiliaries
would have secured an undoubted superiority in the field; when the British fleets had trampled
on the naval power of France and Spain, intercepted their supplies of treasure, and cut off
all their resources of commerce; the British ministers seemed to treat, without the least regard
to the honour and advantage of their country. They left her most valuable and necessary rights
of trade unowned and undecided; they subscribed to the insolent demand of sending the nobles
of the realm to grace the court and adorn the triumphs of her enemy; and they tamely gave up
her conquests in North America, of more consequence to her traffic than all the other dominions
for which the powers at war contended; they gave up the important isle of Cape Breton, in exchange
for a petty factory in the East Indies, belonging to a private company, whose existence had
been deemed prejudicial to the commonwealth. What then were the fruits which Britain reaped
from this long and desperate war? A dreadful expense of blood and treasure, [310] [See note
2 P, at the end of this Vol.] disgrace upon disgrace, an additional load of grievous impositions,
and the national debt accumulated to the enormous sum of eighty millions sterling.

CHAPTER VII.

     Reflections on the Peace..... The Prince of Wales'
     Adherents join the Opposition..... Character of the
     Ministry..... Session opened..... Debate on the Address.....
     Supplies granted..... Exorbitant Demand of the Empress-queen
     opposed..... Violent Contest concerning the Seamen's
     Bill..... Objections to the Mutiny Bill..... Bill for
     limiting the Term of a Soldier's Service..... Measures taken
     with respect to the African Trade..... Scheme for improving
     the British Fishery..... Attempt to open the Commerce to
     Hudson's Bay..... Plan for manning the Navy..... Fruitless
     Motions made by the Opposition..... Severities exercised
     upon some Students at Oxford..... Duke of Newcastle chosen
     Chancellor cf the University of Cambridge..... Tumults in
     different Parts of the Kingdom..... Scheme for a Settlement
     in Nova Scotia..... Town of Halifax founded..... French
     Attempts to settle on the Island of Tobago..... Rejoicings
     for the Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle..... Pretender's eldest Son
     arrested at Paris..... Appearance of a Rupture between
     Russia and Sweden..... Interposition of the King of
     Prussia..... Measures taken by the French Ministry.....
     Conduct of different European Powers..... Insolence of the
     Barbary Corsairs..... Disturbances in England..... Session
     opened--Subjects of Debate..... Scheme for reducing the
     Interest of the National Debt..... Act passed for that
     Purpose..... New Mutiny Bill..... Bill for encouraging the
     Importation of Iron from America..... Erection of the
     British Herring Fishery..... New African Company.....
     Westminster   Election..... Earthquakes in London.....
     Pestilential Fever at the Session in the Old Bailey.....
     Disputes between Russia and Sweden..... Plan for electing
     the Arch-duke Joseph King of the Romans..... Opposition of
     the King of Prussia..... Disputes with the French about the
     Limits of Nova-Scotia..... Treaty with Spain..... Session
     opened..... Debate on the Address..... Supplies granted.....
     Death and Character of the Prince of Wales..... Settlement
     of a Regency, in case of a Minor Sovereign--General
     Naturalization Bill..... Censure passed upon a Paper
     entitled Constitutional Queries..... Proceedings of the
     Commons on the Westminster Election..... Mr. Murray sent
     Prisoner to Newgate..... Session closed..... Style altered

{1748}

REFLECTIONS ON THE PEACE.

The peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, however unstable or inglorious it might appear to those few who
understood the interests, and felt for the honour of their country, was nevertheless not unwelcome
to the nation in general. The British ministry will always find it more difficult to satisfy
the people at the end of a successful campaign, than at the conclusion of an unfortunate war.
The English are impatient of miscarriage and disappointment, and too apt to be intoxicated
with victory. At this period they were tired of the burdens, and sick of the disgraces, to
which they had been exposed in the coarse of seven tedious campaigns. They had suffered considerable
losses and interruption in the article of commerce, which was the source of their national
opulence and power; they knew it would necessarily be clogged with additional duties for the
maintenance of a continental war, and the support of foreign subsidiaries; and they drew very
faint presages of future success either from the conduct of their allies, or the capacity of
their commanders. To a people influenced by these considerations, the restoration of a free
trade, the respite from that anxiety and suspense which the prosecution of a war never fails
to engender, and the prospect of a speedy deliverance from discouraging restraint and oppressive
impositions, were advantages that sweetened the bitter draught of a dishonourable treaty, and
induced the majority of the nation to acquiesce in the peace, not barely without murmuring,
but even with some degree of satisfaction and applause.

THE PRINCE OF WALES' ADHERENTS JOIN THE OPPOSITION.

Immediately after the exchange of ratifications at Aix-la-Chapelle, the armies were broken
up; the allies in the Netherlands withdrew their several proportions of troops; the French
began to evacuate Flanders; and the English forces were re-embarked for their own country.
His Britannic majesty returned from his German dominions in November, having landed near Margate,
in Kent, after a dangerous passage; and on the twenty-ninth of the same month he opened the
session of parliament. By this time the misunderstanding between the two first personages of
the royal family had been increased by a fresh succession of matter. The prince of Wales had
held a court of Stannary, in quality of duke of Cornwall; and revived some claims attached
to that dignity, which, had they been admitted, would have greatly augmented his influence
among the Cornish boroughs. These efforts roused the jealousy of the administration, which
had always considered them as an interest wholly dependent on the crown; and, therefore, the
pretensions of his royal highness were opposed by the whole weight of the ministry. His adherents,
resenting these hostilities as an injury to their royal master, immediately joined the remnant
of the former opposition in parliament, and resolved to counteract all the ministerial measures
that should fall under their cognizance; at least, they determined to seize every opportunity
of thwarting the servants of the crown, in every scheme or proposal that had not an evident
tendency to the advantage of the nation. This band of auxiliaries was headed by the earl of
E----t, Dr. Lee, and Mr. N----t. The first possessed a species of eloquence rather plausible
than powerful; he spoke with fluency and fire; his spirit was bold and enterprising, his apprehension
quick, and his repartee severe. Dr. Lee was a man of extensive erudition and irreproachable
morals, particularly versed in the civil law, which he professed, and perfectly well acquainted
with the constitution of his country. Mr. N----t was an orator of middling abilities, who harangued
upon all subjects indiscriminately, and supplied with confidence what he wanted in capacity;
he had been at some pains to study the business of the house, as well as to understand the
machine of government; and was tolerably well heard, as he generally spoke with an appearance
of good humour, and hazarded every whimsical idea as it arose in his imagination. But lord
Bolingbroke is said to have been the chief spring which, in secret, actuated the deliberations
of the prince's court. That nobleman, seemingly sequestered from the tumults of a public life,
resided at Battersea, where he was visited like a sainted shrine by all the distinguished votaries
of wit, eloquence, and political ambition. There he was cultivated and admired for the elegance
of his manners, and the charms of his conversation. The prince's curiosity was first captivated
by his character, and his esteem was afterwards secured by the irresistible address of that
extraordinary personage, who continued in a regular progression to insinuate himself still
farther and farther into the good graces of his royal patron.. How far the conduct of his royal
highness was influenced by the private advice of this nobleman we shall not pretend to determine;
but, certain it is, the friends of the ministry propagated a report, that he was the dictator
of those measures which the prince adopted; and that, under the specious pretext of attachment
to the heir-apparent of the crown, he concealed his real aim, which was to perpetuate the breach
in the royal family. Whatever his sentiments and motives might have been, this was no other
than a revival of the old ministerial clamour, that a man cannot be well affected to the king,
if he pretends to censure any measure of the administration.

CHARACTER OF THE MINISTRY.

The weight which the opposition derived from these new confederates in the house of commons
was still greatly overbalanced by the power, influence, and ability that sustained every ministerial
project. Mr. Pelham, who chiefly managed the helm of affairs, was generally esteemed as a man
of honesty and candour, actuated by a sincere love for his country, though he had been educated
in erroneous principles of government, and in some measure obliged to prosecute a fatal system
which descended to him by inheritance. At this time he numbered Mr. Pitt among his fellow-ministers,
and was moreover supported by many other individuals of distinguished abilities; among whom
the first place in point of genius was due to Mr. M., who executed the office of solicitor-general.
This gentleman, the son of a noble family in North Britain, had raised himself to great eminence
at the bar, by a most keen intuitive spirit of apprehension, that seemed to seize every object
at first glance; an innate sagacity, that saved the trouble of intense application; and an
irresistible stream of eloquence, that flowed pure and classical, strong and copious, reflecting,
in the most conspicuous point of view, the subjects over which it rolled, and sweeping before
it all the slime of formal hesitation, and all the entangling weeds of chicanery. Yet the servants
of the crown were not so implicitly attached to the first minister as to acquiesce in all his
plans, and dedicate their time and talents to the support of every court measure indiscriminately.
This was one material point in which Mr. Pelham deviated from the maxims of his predecessor,
who admitted of no contradiction from any of his adherents or fellow-servants, but insisted
on sacrificing their whole perception and faculties to his conduct and disposal. That sordid
deference to a minister no longer characterized the subordinate instruments of the administration.
It was not unusual to see the great officers of the government divided in a parliamentary debate,
and to hear the secretary at war opposing with great vehemence a clause suggested by the chancellor
of the exchequer. After all, if we coolly consider those arguments which have been bandied
about, and retorted with such eagerness and acrimony in the house of commons, and divest them
of those passionate tropes and declamatory metaphors which the spirit of opposition alone had
produced, we shall find very little left for the subject of dispute, and sometimes be puzzled
to discover any material source of disagreement.

SESSION OPENED.

In the month of November his majesty opened the session of parliament with a speech, acquainting
them, that the definitive treaty of peace was at length signed by all the parties concerned;
that he had made the most effectual provision for securing the rights and interests of his
own subjects; and procured for his allies the best conditions, which, in the present situation
of affairs, could be obtained. He said, he had found a general good disposition in all parties
to bring the negotiation to a happy conclusion; and observed, that we might promise ourselves
a long enjoyment of the blessings of peace. Finally, after having remarked that times of tranquillity
were the proper seasons for lessening the national debt, and strengthening the kingdom against
future events, he recommended to the commons the improvement of the public revenue, the maintenance
of a considerable naval force, the advancement of commerce, and the cultivation of the arts
of peace. This speech, as usual, was echoed back by an address to the throne from both houses,
containing general expressions of the warmest loyalty and gratitude to his majesty, and implying
the most perfect satisfaction and acquiescence in the articles of the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle.

The members in the opposition, according to custom, cavilled at the nature of this address.
They observed, that the late pacification was the worst and most inglorious of all the bad
treaties to which the English nation had ever subscribed; that it was equally disgraceful,
indefinite, and absurd; they said, the British navy had gained such an ascendancy over the
French at sea, that the sources of their wealth were already choked up; that the siege of Maestricht
would have employed then-arms in the Low Countries till the arrival of the Russians; and that
the accession of these auxiliaries would have thrown the superiority into the scale of the
allies. They did not fail to take notice that the most important and original object of the
war was left wholly undecided; and demonstrated the absurdity of their promising in the address
to make good such engagements as his majesty had entered into with his allies, before they
knew what those engagements were. In answer to these objections, the ministers replied, that
the peace was in itself rather better than could be expected; and that the smallest delay might
have proved fatal to the liberties of Europe. They affirmed, that the Dutch were upon the point
of concluding a neutrality, in consequence of which their troops would have been withdrawn
from the allied army; and, in that case, even the addition of the Russian auxiliaries would
not have rendered it a match for the enemy. They asserted, that if the Avar had been prolonged
another year, the national credit of Great Britain must have been entirely ruined, many of
the public funds having sunk below par in the preceding season, so that the ministry had begun
to despair of seeing the money paid in on the new subscription. With respect to the restoration
of Cape Breton, the limits of Nova Scotia, and the right of navigating without search in the
American seas, which right had been left unestablished in the treaty, they declared, that the
first was an unnecessary expense, of no consequence to Great Britain; and that the other two
were points in despute, to be amicably settled in private conferences by commissaries duly
authorized; but by no means articles to be established by a general treaty.

What the opposition wanted in strength, it endeavoured to make up with spirit and perseverance.
Every ministerial motion and measure was canvassed, sifted, and decried with uncommon art and
vivacity; but all this little availed against the single article of superior numbers; and accordingly
this was the source of certain triumph in all debates in which the servants of the crown were
united. The nation had reason to expect an immediate mitigation in the article of annual expense,
considering the number of troops and ships of war which had been reduced at the ratification
of the treaty: but they were disagreeably undeceived in finding themselves again loaded with
very extraordinary impositions, for the payment of a vast debt which government had contracted
in the course of the war, notwithstanding the incredible aids granted by parliament. The committee
of supply established four points of consideration, in their deliberations concerning the sums
necessary to be raised; namely, for fulfilling the engagements which the parliament had entered
into with his majesty, and the services undertaken for the success of the war; for discharging
debts contracted by government; for making good deficiencies; and for defraying the current
expense of the year. It appeared, that the nation owed four-and-forty thousand pounds to the
elector of Bavaria; above thirty thousand to the duke of Brunswick; the like sum to the landgrave
of Hesse-Cassel; and near nine thousand pounds to the elector of Mentz. The queen of Hungary
claimed an arrear of one hundred thousand pounds. The city of Glasgow, in North Britain, presented
a petition, praying to be reimbursed the sum of ten thousand pounds, extorted from that corporation
by the son of the pretender during the rebellion. One hundred and twelve thousand pounds were
owing to the forces in North America and the East Indies; besides near half a million due on
extraordinary expense incurred by the land-forces in America, Flanders, and North Britain,
by the office of ordnance, and other services of the last year, to which the parliamentary
provision did not extend. The remaining debt of the ordnance amounted to above two hundred
and thirty thousand pounds; but the navy-bills could not be discharged for less than four millions.
An addition of two millions three hundred and seventy-four thousand three hundred and thirty-three
pounds, fifteen shillings and two-pence, was also required for the current service of the year.
In a word, the whole annual supply exceeded eight millions sterling-a sum at which the whole
nation expressed equal astonishment and disgust. It was charged upon the duties on malt, mum,
cyder, and perry, the land-tax at four shillings in the pound, annuities on the sinking-fund,
an application of one million from that deposit, and the loan of the like sum to be charged
on the first aids of next session. The number of seamen was reduced to seventeen thousand,
and that of the land-forces to eighteen thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven, including guards
and garrisons.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

EXORBITANT DEMAND OF THE EMPRESS-QUEEN OPPOSED.

Every article of expense, however, was warmly disputed by the anti-courtiers, especially the
demand of the queen of Hungary, which was deemed unreasonable, exorbitant, and rapacious, considering
the seas of blood which we had shed, and the immensity of treasure we had exhausted for her
benefit; and surely the subjects of this nation had some reason to complain of an indulgence
of this nature, granted to a power which they had literally snatched from the brink of ruin-a
power whose quarrel they had espoused with a degree of enthusiasm that did much more honour
to their gallantry than to their discretion-a power that kept aloof, with a stateliness of
pride peculiar to herself and family, and beheld her British auxiliaries fighting her battles
at their own expense; while she squandered away, in the idle pageantry of barbarous magnificence,
those ample subsidies which they had advanced in order to maintain their armies, and furnish
out her proportion of the war. The leaders of the opposition neglected no opportunity of embittering
the triumphs of their adversaries; they inveighed against the extravagance of granting sixteen
thousand pounds for the pay of general and staff officers, during a peace that required no
such establishment, especially at a juncture when the national incumbrances rendered it absolutely
necessary to practise every expedient of economy. They even combated the request of the city
of Glasgow, to be indemnified for the extraordinary exaction it underwent from the rebels,
though it appeared from unquestionable evidence, that this extraordinary contribution was exacted
on account of that city's peculiar attachment to the reigning family; that it had always invariably
adhered to revolution principles; and, with an unequalled spirit of loyalty and zeal for the
protestant succession, distinguished itself both in the last and preceding rebellion.

VIOLENT CONTEST CONCERNING THE SEAMEN'S BILL.

But the most violent contest arose on certain regulations which the ministry wanted to establish
in two bills, relating to the sea and land service. The first, under the title of a bill for
amending, explaining, and reducing into one act of parliament the laws relating to the navy,
was calculated solely with a view of subjecting half-pay officers to martial law--a design
which not only furnished the opposition with a plausible handle for accusing the ministers
as intending to encroach upon the constitution, in order to extend the influence of the crown;
but also alarmed the sea-officers to such a degree, that they assembled to a considerable number,
with a view to deliberate upon the proper means of defending their privileges and liberties
from invasion. The result of their consultations was a petition to the house of commons, subscribed
by three admirals and forty-seven captains, not members of parliament, representing that the
bill in agitation contained several clauses tending to the injury and dishonour of all naval
officers, as well as to the detriment of his majesty's service; and that the laws already in
force had been always found effectual for securing the service of officers on half-pay upon
the most pressing occasions: they therefore hoped, that they should not be subjected to new
hardships and discouragements; and begged to be heard by their counsel, before the committee
of the whole house, touching such parts of the bill as they apprehended would be injurious
to themselves and the other officers of his majesty's navy. This petition was presented to
the house by sir John Norris, and the motion for its being read was seconded by sir Peter Warren,
whose character was universally esteemed and beloved in the nation. This measure had like to
have produced very serious consequences. Many commanders and subalterns had repaired to the
admiralty, and threatened in plain terms to throw up their commissions, in case the bill should
pass into a law; and a general ferment was begun among all the subordinate members of the navy.
A motion was made, that the petitioners, according to their request, should be heard by their
counsel; and this proposal was strongly urged by the first orators of the anti-ministerial
association; but the minister, confiding in his own strength, reinforced by the abilities of
Mr. Pitt, Mr. Lyttelton, and Mr. Fox the secretary at war, strenuously opposed the motion,
which upon a division was thrown out by a great majority. The several articles of the bill
were afterwards separately debated with great warmth; and though Mr. Pelham had, with the most
disinterested air of candour, repeatedly declared that he required no support even from his
own adherents, but that which might arise from reason unrestrained and full conviction, he
on this occasion reaped all the fruit from their zeal and attachment, which could be expected
from the most implicit complaisance. Some plausible amendments of the most exceptionable clauses
were offered, particularly of that which imposed an oath upon the members of every court-martial,
that they should not, on any account, disclose the opinions or transactions of any such tribunal.
This was considered as a sanction, under which any court-martial might commit the most flagrant
acts of injustice and oppression, which even parliament itself could not redress, because it
would be impossible to ascertain the truth, eternally sealed up by this absurd obligation.
The amendment proposed was, that the member of a court-martial might reveal the transactions
and opinions of it in all cases wherein the courts of justice, as the law now stands, have
a right to interfere, if required thereto by either house of parliament; a very reasonable
mitigation, which however was rejected by the majority. Nevertheless, the suspicion of an intended
encroachment had raised such a clamour without doors, and diffused the odium of this measure
so generally, that the minister thought proper to drop the projected article of war, subjecting
the reformed officers of the navy to the jurisdictions of courts-martial; and the bill being
also softened in other particulars, during its passage through the upper house, at length received
the royal assent.

The flame which this act had kindled, was rather increased than abated on the appearance of
a new mutiny-bill, replete with divers innovations tending to augment the influence of the
crown, as well as the authority and power of a military jurisdiction. All the articles of war
established since the reign of Charles II., were submitted to the inspection of the commons;
and in these appeared a gradual spirit of encroachment, almost imperceptibly deviating from
the civil institutes of the English constitution, towards the establishment of a military dominion.
By this new bill a power was vested in any commander-in-chief, to revise and correct any legal
sentence of a court-martial, by which the members of such a court, corresponding with the nature
of a civil jury, were rendered absolutely useless, and the commander in a great measure absolute;
for he had not only the power of summoning such officers as he might choose to sit on any trial--a
prerogative unknown to any civil court of judicature--but he was also at liberty to review
and altar the sentence; so that a man was subject to two trials for the same offence, and the
commander-in-chief was judge both of the guilt and the punishment. By the final clause of this
bill, martial law was extended to all officers on half-pay; and the same arguments which had
been urged against this article in the navy-bill, were now repeated and reinforced with redoubled
fervour. Many reasons were offered to prove that the half-pay was allotted as a recompence
for past service; and the opponents of the bill affirmed, that such an article, by augmenting
the dependents of the crown, might be very dangerous to the constitution. On the other hand,
the partisans of the ministry asserted, that the half-pay was granted as a retaining fee; and
that originally all those who enjoyed this indulgence were deemed to be in actual service,
consequently subject to martial law. Mr. Pitt, who at this time exercised the office of paymaster-general,
with a rigour of integrity unknown to the most disinterested of all his predecessors in that
department, espoused the clause in dispute as a necessary extension of military discipline,
which could never be attended with any bad consequence to the liberty of the nation. The remarks
which he made on this occasion, implied an opinion that our liberties wholly existed in dependence
upon the direction of the sovereign, and the virtue of the army. "To their virtue," said he,
"we trust even at this hour, small as our army is; to that virtue we must have trusted, had
this bill been modelled as its warmest opposers could have wished; and without this virtue,
should the lords, the commons, and the people of England intrench themselves behind parchment
up to the teeth, the sword will find a passage to the vitals of the constitution." All the
disputed articles of the bill being sustained on the shoulders of a great majority, it was
conveyed to the upper house, where it excited another violent contest. Upon the question whether
officers on half-pay had not been subject to martial law, the judges were consulted and divided
in their sentiments. The earl of Bath declared his opinion that martial law did not extend
to reformed officers; and opened all the sluices of his ancient eloquence. He admitted a case
which was urged, of seven officers on half-pay, who, being taken in actual rebellion at Preston
in the year 1715, had been executed on the spot by martial law, in consequence of the king's
express order. He candidly owned, that he himself was secretary at war at that period; that
he had approved of this order, and even transmitted it to general Carpenter, who commanded
at Preston; but now his opinion was entirely changed. He observed, that when the forementioned
rebellion first broke out, the house presented an address to the king, desiring his majesty
would be pleased to employ all half-pay officers, and gratify them with whole pay; and, indeed,
all such officers were voted on whole pay by the house of commons. They were afterwards apprised
of this vote, by an advertisement in the Gazette, and ordered to hold themselves in readiness
to repair to such places as should be appointed; and finally commanded to repair by such a
day to those places, on pain of being struck off the half-pay list. These precautions would
have been unnecessary, had they been deemed subject to martial law, and the penalty for non-obedience
would not have been merely a privation of their pensions, but they would have fallen under
the punishment of death, as deserters from the service. His lordship distinguished with great
propriety and precision, between a step which had been precipitately taken in a violent crisis,
when the public was heated with apprehension and resentment, and a solemn law concerted at
leisure, during the most profound tranquility. Notwithstanding the spirited opposition of this
nobleman, and some attempts to insert additional clauses, the bill having undergone a few inconsiderable
amendments, passed by a very considerable majority.

BILL FOR LIMITING THE TERM OF A SOLDIER'S SERVICE.

Immediately after the mutiny-bill had passed the lower house, another fruitless effort was
made by the opposition. The danger of a standing army, on whose virtue the constitution of
Great Britain seemed to depend, did not fail to alarm the minds of many who were zealously
attached to the liberties of their country, and gave birth to a scheme, which if executed;
would have enabled the legislature to establish a militia that must have answered many national
purposes, and acted as a constitutional bulwark against the excesses and ambition of a military
standing force, under the immediate influence of government. The scheme which patriotism conceived,
was, in all probability, adopted by party. A bill was brought in, limiting the time beyond
which no soldier, or non-commissioned officer, should be compelled to continue in the service.
Had this limitation taken place, such a rotation of soldiers would have ensued among the common
people, that in a few years every peasant, labourer, and inferior tradesman in the kingdom,
would have understood the exercise of arms; and perhaps the people in general would have concluded
that a standing army was altogether unnecessary. A project of this nature could not, for obvious
reasons, be agreeable to the administration, and therefore the bill was rendered abortive;
for, after having been twice read, it was postponed from time to time till the parliament was
prorogued, and never appeared in the sequel. Such were the chief subjects of debate between
the ministry and the opposition, composed, as we have already observed, of the prince's servants
and the remains of the country party, this last being headed by lord Strange, son of the earl
of Derby, and sir Francis Dashwood; the former, a nobleman of distinguished abilities, keen,
penetrating, eloquent and sagacious; the other frank, spirited, and sensible.

MEASURES TAKEN WITH RESPECT TO THE AFRICAN TRADE.

It must be owned, however, for the honour of the ministry, that if they carried a few unpopular
measures with a high hand, they seemed earnestly desirous of making amends to the nation, by
promoting divers regulations for the benefit and improvement of commerce, which actually took
place in the ensuing session of parliament. One of the principal objects of this nature which
fell under their cognizance, was the trade to the coast of Guinea; a very important branch
of traffic, whether considered as a market for British manufactures, or as the source that
supplied the English plantations with negroes. This was originally monopolized by a joint-stock
company, which had from time to time derived considerable sums from the legislature, for enabling
them the better to support certain forts or castles on the coast of Africa, to facilitate the
commerce and protect the merchants. In the sequel, however, the exclusive privilege having
been judged prejudicial to the national trade, the coast was laid open to all British subjects
indiscriminately, on condition of their paying a certain duty towards defraying the expense
of the forts and factories. This expedient did not answer the purposes for which it had been
contrived. The separate traders, instead of receiving any benefit from the protection of the
company, industriously avoided their castles, as the receptacles of tyranny and oppression.
The company, whether from misconduct or knavery of their directors, contracted such a load
of debts as their stock was unable to discharge. They seemed to neglect the traffic, and allowed
their castles to decay. In a word, their credit being exhausted, and their creditors growing
clamorous, they presented a petition to the house of commons, disclosing their distresses,
and imploring such assistance as should enable them not only to pay their debts, but also to
maintain the forts in a defensible condition. This petition, recommended to the house in a
message from his majesty, was corroborated by another in behalf of the company's creditors.
Divers merchants of London, interested in the trade of Africa and the British plantations in
America, petitioned the house, that as the African trade was of the utmost importance to the
nation, and could not be supported without forts and settlements, some effectual means should
be speedily taken for protecting and extending this valuable branch of commerce. A fourth was
offered by the merchants of Liverpool, representing that the security and protection of the
trade to Africa must always principally depend upon his majesty's ships of war being properly
stationed on that coast, and seasonably relieved, and that such forts and settlements as might
be judged necessary for marks of sovereignty and possession, would prove a nuisance and a burden
to the trade, should they remain in the hands of any joint-stock company, whose private interest
always had been, and ever would be, found incompatible with the interest of the separate and
open trader. They therefore prayed, that the said forts might either be taken into his majesty's
immediate possession, and supported by the public, or committed to the merchants trading on
that coast, in such a manner as the house should judge expedient, without vesting in them any
other advantage or right to the commerce, but what should be common to all his majesty's subjects.
This remonstrance was succeeded by another to the same effect, from the master, wardens, assistants,
and commonalty of the society of merchant adventurers within the city of Bristol. All these
petitions were referred to a committee appointed to deliberate on this subject; who agreed
to certain resolutions, implying, that the trade to Africa should be free and open; that the
British forts and settlements on that coast ought to be maintained, and put under proper direction;
and that in order to carry on the African trade in the most beneficial manner to these kingdoms,
all the British subjects trading to Africa should be united in one open company, without any
joint-stock, or power to trade as a corporation. A bill was immediately founded on these resolutions,
which alarmed the company to such a degree, that they had recourse to another petition, demonstrating
their right to the coast of Africa, and expressing their reliance on the justice of the house
that they should not be deprived of their property without an adequate consideration. In a
few days a second address was offered by their creditors, complaining of the company's mismanagement,
promising to surrender their right, as the wisdom of parliament should prescribe; praying that
their debts might be inquired into; and that the equivalent to be granted for the company's
possessions might be secured and applied, in the first place, for their benefit. The commons,
in consequence of this petition, ordered the company to produce a list of their debts, together
with a copy of their charter, and two remonstrances which their creditors had presented to
them before this application to parliament. A committee of the whole house, having deliberated
on these papers and petitions, and heard the company by their counsel, resolved to give them
a reasonable compensation for their charter, lands, forts, settlements, slaves, and effects,
to be in the first place applied towards the payment of their creditors. A bill being formed
accordingly, passed the commons, and was conveyed to the upper house, where a great many objections
were started; and for the present it was dropped, until a more unexceptionable plan should
be concerted. In the meantime their lordships addressed his majesty, that the lords commissioners
for trade and plantations might be directed to prepare a scheme on this subject, to be laid
before both houses of parliament at the beginning of next session; that instant orders should
be given for preserving and securing the forts and settlements on the coast of Guinea belonging
to Great Britain; and that proper persons should be appointed to examine into the condition
of those forts, as well as of the military stores, slaves, and vessels belonging to the African
company, so as to make a faithful report of these particulars, with all possible expedition.

SCHEME FOR IMPROVING THE BRITISH FISHERY.

The ministry having professed an inclination, and indeed shown a disposition, to promote and
extend the commerce of the kingdom, the commons resolved to take some steps for encouraging
the white fishery along the northern coast of the island, which is an inexhaustible source
of wealth to our industrious neighbours the Dutch, who employ annually a great number of hands
and vessels in this branch of commerce. The sensible part of the British people, reflecting
on this subject, plainly foresaw that a fishery, under due regulations, undertaken with the
protection and encouragement of the legislature, would not only prove a fund of national riches,
and a nursery of seamen, but likewise in a great measure prevent any future insurrections in
the Highlands of Scotland, by diffusing a spirit of industry among the natives of that country,
who finding it in their power to become independent on the fruits of their own labour, would
soon enfranchise themselves from that slavish attachment by which they had been so long connected
with their landlords and chieftains. Accordingly, a committee was appointed to deliberate on
the state of the British fishery; and upon their report a bill was founded for encouraging
the whale fishery on the coast of Spitsbergen, by a bounty of forty shillings per ton for every
ship equipped for that undertaking. The bill having made its way through both houses, and obtained
the royal assent, the merchants in different parts of the kingdom, particularly in North Britain,
began to build and fit out ships of great burden, and peculiar structure, for the purpose of
that fishery, which ever since hath been carried on with equal vigour and success. Divers merchants
and traders of London having presented to the house of commons a petition, representing the
benefits that would accrue to the community from a herring and cod fishery, established on
proper principles, and carried on with skill and integrity, this remonstrance was referred
to a committee, upon whose resolutions a bill was formed; but before this could be discussed
in the house, the parliament was prorogued, and of consequence this measure proved abortive.

ATTEMPT TO OPEN THE COMMERCE TO HUDSON'S BAY.

The next regulation proposed in favour of trade, was that of laying open the commerce of Hudson's-bay,
in the most northern parts of America, where a small monopoly maintained a few forts and settlements,
and prosecuted a very advantageous fur trade with the Indians of that continent. It was suggested,
that the company had long ago enriched themselves by their exclusive privilege; that they employed
no more than four annual ships; that, contrary to an express injunction in their charter, they
discouraged all attempts to discover a north-west passage to the East Indies; that they dealt
cruelly and perfidiously with the poor Indians, who never traded with them except when compelled
by necessity, so that the best part of the fur trade had devolved to the enemies of Great Britain;
and that their exclusive patent restricted to very narrow limits a branch of commerce which
might be cultivated to a prodigious extent; as well as to the infinite advantage of Great Britain.
Petitions, that the trade of Hudson's-bay might be laid open, were presented to the house by
the merchants of London, Great Yarmouth, and Wolverhampton; and a committee was appointed to
deliberate upon this subject. On the other hand, the company exerted themselves in petitions
and private applications for their own preservation. The committee examined many papers and
records; and the report was taken into consideration by the whole house. Many evidences were
interrogated, and elaborate speeches made, on both sides of the question. At length a majority
seemed satisfied that the traffic on the coast of Hudson's-bay could not be preserved without
forts and settlements, which must be maintained either by an exclusive company, or at the public
expense; and, as this was not judged a proper juncture to encumber the nation with any charge
of that kind the design of dissolving the company was laid aside till a more favourable opportunity.

PLAN FOR MAINTAINING THE NAVY.

The government had, during the war, found great difficulty in pressing men for the service
of the navy--a practice, which, however sanctioned by necessity, is nevertheless a flagrant
encroachment on the liberty of the subject, and a violent outrage against the constitution
of Great Britain. The ministry, therefore, had employed some of their agents to form a scheme
for retaining in time of peace, by means of a certain allowance, a number of seamen, who should
be registered for the purpose, and be ready to man a squadron upon any emergency. Such a plan,
properly regulated, would have been a great advantage to commerce, which is always distressed
by the practice of pressing seamen; and at the same time, a great security to the kingdom in
dangerous conjunctures, when it may be necessary to equip an armament at a minute's warning.
The house of commons being moved upon this subject, agreed to divers resolutions as a foundation
for the bill; but the members in the opposition affecting to represent this measure in an odious
light, as an imitation of the French method of registering seamen without their own consent,
Mr. Pelham dropped it, as an unpopular project.

Information having been received that the French intended to settle the neutral islands of
St. Lucia, Dominica, St. Vincent, and Tobago, in the West Indies, the nation had taken the
alarm in the beginning of the year; and a motion was made in the house of commons to address
his majesty, that he would be graciously pleased to give directions for laying before the house
copies of the instructions given to the governors of Barbadoes for the last ten years past,
so far as they related to these neutral islands; but whether the minister was conscious of
a neglect in this particular, or thought such inquiries trenched upon the prerogative, he opposed
the motion with all his might; and after some debate, the previous question passed in the negative.
This was also the fate of another motion made by the earl of E----t for an address, entreating
his majesty would submit to the inspection of the house all the proposals of peace that had
been made by the French king since the year which preceded the last rebellion, to that in which
the definitive treaty was concluded at Aix-la-Chapelle. This they proposed as a previous step
to the parliament's forming any opinion concerning the utility or necessity of the peace which
had been established. Violent debates ensued, in which the opposition was as much excelled
in oratory as out-numbered in votes. Such were the material transactions of this session, which
in the month of June was closed as usual with a speech from the throne; in which his majesty
signified his hope, that the parliament, at their next meeting, would be able to perfect what
they had now begun for advancing the trade and navigation of the kingdom. He likewise expressed
his satisfaction at seeing public credit flourish at the end of an expensive war; and recommended
unanimity, as the surest bulwark of national security.

While the ministry on some occasions exhibited all the external signs of moderation and good
humour, they, on others, manifested a spirit of jealousy and resentment which seems to have
been childish and illiberal. Two or three young riotous students at Oxford, trained up in prejudice,
and heated with intemperance, uttered some expressions over their cups, implying their attachment
to the family of the pretender. The report of this indiscretion was industriously circulated
by certain worthless individuals, who, having no reliance on their own intrinsic merit, hoped
to distinguish themselves as the tools of party, and to obtain favour with the ministry by
acting as volunteers in the infamous practice of information. Though neither the rank, age,
nor connexions of the delinquents were such as ought to have attracted the notice of the public,
the vice-chancellor, heads of houses, and proctors of the university, knowing the invidious
scrutiny to which their conduct was subjected, thought proper to publish a declaration, signifying
their abhorrence of all seditious practices, their determined resolution to punish all offenders
to the utmost severity and rigour of the statutes; and containing peremptory orders for the
regulation of the university. Notwithstanding these wise and salutary precautions, the three
boys, who in the heat of their intoxication had drunk the pretender's health, were taken into
custody by a messenger of state; and two of them being tried in the court of king's bench,
and found guilty, were sentenced to walk through the courts of Westminster, with a specification
of their crime fixed to their foreheads; to pay a find of five nobles each; to be imprisoned
for two years, and find security for their good behaviour for the term of seven years after
their enlargement. Many people thought they saw the proceedings of the star-chamber revived
in the severity of this punishment. The administration, not yet satisfied with the vengeance
which had been taken on these three striplings, seemed determined to stigmatize the university
to which they belonged. The cry of jacobitism was loudly trumpeted against the whole community.
The address of the university, congratulating his majesty on the establishment of the peace,
was rejected with disdain, and an attempt was made to subject their statutes to the inspection
of the king's council; but this rule, being argued in the court of king's-bench, was dismissed
in consequence of the opinions given by the judges. Finally, the same tribunal granted an information
against Dr. Purnel, the vice-chancellor, for his behaviour in the case of the rioters above-mentioned;
but this was countermanded in the sequel, his conduct appearing unexceptionable upon a more
cool and impartial inquiry.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

ELECTION OF A CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE.

In proportion as Oxford declined, her sister university rose in the favour of the administration,
which she at this period cultivated by an extraordinary mark of compliance and attachment.
The dignity of chancellor of the university being vacated by the death of the duke of Somerset,
the nation in general seemed to think it would naturally devolve upon the prince of Wales,
as a compliment at all times due to that rank; but more especially to the then heir-apparent,
who had eminently distinguished himself by the virtues of a patriot and a prince. He had even
pleased himself with the hope of receiving this mark of attachment from a seminary for which
he entertained a particular regard. But the ruling members, seeing no immediate prospect of
advantage in glorifying even a prince who was at variance with the ministry, wisely turned
their eyes upon the illustrious character of the duke of Newcastle, whom they elected without
opposition, and installed with great magnificence; learning, poetry, and eloquence, joining
their efforts in celebrating the shining virtues and extraordinary talents of their new patron.

Although opposition lay gasping at the feet of power in the house of commons, the people of
England did not yet implicitly approve all the measures of the administration; and the dregs
of faction, still agitated by an internal ferment, threw up some ineffectual bubbles in different
parts of the kingdom. Some of those who made no secret of their disaffection to the reigning
family, determined to manifest their resentment and contempt of certain noblemen, and others,
who were said to have abandoned their ancient principles, and to have sacrificed their consciences
to their interest. Many individuals, animated by the fumes of inebriation, now loudly extolled
that cause which they durst not avow when it required their open approbation and assistance;
and, though they industriously avoided exposing their lives and fortunes to the chance of war
in promoting their favourite interest when there was a possibility of success, they betrayed
no apprehension in celebrating the memory of its last effort, amidst the tumult of a riot and
the clamours of intemperance. In the neighbourhood of Lichfield, the sportsmen of the party
appeared in the Highland taste of variegated drapery; and their zeal descending to a very extraordinary
exhibition of practical ridicule, they hunted, with hounds clothed in plaid, a fox dressed
in a red uniform. Even the females at their assembly, and the gentlemen at the races, affected
to wear the chequered stuff by which the prince-pretender and his followers had been distinguished.
Divers noblemen on the course were insulted as apostates; and one personage, of high rank,
is said to have undergone a very disagreeable flagellation.

SCHEME FOR A NEW SETTLEMENT.

As the public generally suffers at the end of a war, by the sudden dismission of a great number
of soldiers and seamen, who having contracted a habit of idleness, and finding themselves without
employment and the means of subsistence, engage in desperate courses and prey upon the community,
it was judged expedient to provide an opening through which these unquiet spirits might exhale
without damage to the commonwealth. The most natural was that of encouraging them to become
members of a new colony in North America, which, by being properly regulated, supported, and
improved, might be the source of great advantages to its mother country. Many disputes had
arisen between the subjects of England and France concerning the limits of Nova Scotia, which
no treaty had as yet properly ascertained. A fort had been raised, and a small garrison maintained,
by the king of Great Britain, at a part of this very country, called Annapolis-Royal, to overawe
the French neutrals settled in the neighbourhood; but this did not answer the purpose for which
it was intended. Upon every rupture or dispute between the two crowns, these planters, forgetting
their neutrality, intrigued with the Indians, communicated intelligence to their own countrymen
settled at St. John's and Cape Breton, and did all the ill offices their hatred could suggest
against the colonies and subjects of Great Britain. A scheme was now formed for making a new
establishment on the same peninsula, which should further confirm and extend the property and
dominion of the crown of Great Britain in that large tract of country, clear the uncultivated
grounds, constitute communities, diffuse the benefits of population and agriculture, and improve
the fishery of that coast, which might be rendered a new source of wealth and commerce to Old
England. The particulars of the plan being duly considered, it was laid before his majesty,
who approved of the design, and referred the execution of it to the board of trade and plantations,
over which the earl of Halifax presided. This nobleman, endued by nature with an excellent
capacity, which had been diligently and judiciously cultivated, animated with liberal sentiments,
and fired with an eager spirit of patriotism, adopted the plan with the most generous ardour,
and cherished the infant colony with paternal affection. The commissioners for trade and plantations
immediately advertised, under the sanction of his majesty's authority, that proper encouragement
would be given to such of the officers and private men, lately dismissed from the land and
sea service, as were willing to settle, with or without families, in the province of Nova Scotia;
that the fee simple, or perpetual property, of fifty acres of land should be granted to every
private soldier or seaman, free from the payment of any quit-rents or taxes, for the term of
ten years; at the expiration of which no person should pay more than one shilling per annum
for every fifty acres so granted; that, over and above these fifty, each person should receive
a grant of ten acres for every individual, including women and children, of which his family
should consist; that further grants should be made to them as the number should increase, and
in proportion as they should manifest their abilities in agriculture; that every officer, under
the rank of ensign in the land service, or lieutenant in the navy, should be gratified with
fourscore acres on the same conditions; that two hundred acres should be bestowed upon ensigns,
three hundred upon lieutenants, four hundred upon captains, and six hundred on every officer
above that degree, with proportionable considerations for the number and increase of every
family; that the lands should be parcelled out as soon as possible after the arrival of the
colonists, and a civil government established; by virtue of which they should enjoy all the
liberties and privileges of British subjects, with proper security and protection; that the
settlers, with their families, should be conveyed to Nova Scotia, and maintained for twelve
months after their arrival, at the expense of the government; which should also supply them
with arms and ammunition, as far as should be judged necessary for their defence, with proper
materials and utensils for clearing and cultivating their lands, erecting habitations, exercising
the fishery, and such other purposes as should be judged necessary for their support.

TOWN OF HALIFAX FOUNDED.

The scheme was so feasible, and the encouragement so inviting, that in a little time about
four thousand adventurers, with their families, were entered, according to the directions of
the board of trade, who in the beginning of May set sail from England, under the command of
Colonel Cornwallis, whom the king had appointed their governor, and towards the latter end
of June arrived at the place of their destination, which was the harbour of Chebucton, on the
sea-coast of the peninsula, about midway between Cape Canceau and Cape Sable. It is one of
the most secure and commodious havens in the whole world, and well situated for the fishery;
yet the climate is cold, the soil barren, and the whole country covered with woods of birch,
fir, pine, and some oak, unfit for the purposes of timber; but at the same time extremely difficult
to remove and extirpate. Governor Cornwallis no sooner arrived in this harbour than he was
joined by two regiments of infantry from Cape Breton, and a company of rangers from Annapolis.
Then he pitched upon a spot for the settlement, and employed his people in clearing the ground
for laying the foundations of a town; but some inconveniences being discovered in this situation,
he chose another to the northward, hard by the harbour, on an easy ascent, commanding a prospect
of the whole peninsula, and well supplied with rivulets of fresh and wholesome water. Here
he began to build a town on a regular plan, to which he gave the name of Halifax, in honour
of the nobleman who had the greatest share in founding the colony; and before the approach
of winter, above three hundred comfortable wooden houses were built, the whole surrounded by
a strong pallisade. This colony, however, has by no means answered the sanguine expectations
of the projectors; for notwithstanding the ardour with which the interests of it were promoted
by its noble patron, and the repeated indulgence it has reaped from the bounty of the legislature,
the inhabitants have made little or no progress in agriculture; the fishery is altogether neglected,
and the settlement entirely subsists on the sums expended by the individuals of the army and
navy, whose duty obliges them to reside in this part of North America.

FRENCH ATTEMPTS TO SETTLE THE ISLAND OF TOBAGO.

The establishment of such a powerful colony in Nova-Scotia, could not fail giving umbrage to
the French in that neighbourhood, who, though they did not think proper to promulgate their
jealousy and disgust, nevertheless employed their emissaries clandestinely in stimulating and
exciting the Indians to harass the colonists with hostilities, in such a manner as should effectually
hinder them from extending their plantations, and perhaps induce them to abandon the settlement.
Nor was this the only part of America in which the French court countenanced such perfidious
practices. More than ever convinced of the importance of a considerable navy, and an extensive
plantation trade, they not only exerted uncommon industry in re-establishing their marine,
which had suffered so severely during the war; but they resolved, if possible, to extend their
plantations in the West Indies by settling the neutral islands, which we have already mentioned.
In the beginning of the year, the governor of Barbadoes, having received intelligence that
the French had begun to settle the island of Tobago, sent captain Tyrrel thither in a frigate
to learn the particulars. That officer found above three hundred men already landed, secured
by two batteries and two ships of war, and in daily expectation of a further reinforcement
from the marquis de Caylus, governor of Martinique; who had published an ordonnance, authorizing
the subjects of the French king to settle the island of Tobago, and promising to defend them
from the attempts of all their enemies. This assurance was in answer to a proclamation issued
by Mr. Grenville, governor of Barbadoes, and stuck up in the different parts of the island,
commanding all the inhabitants to remove, in thirty days, on pain of undergoing military execution.
Captain Tyrrel, with a spirit that became a commander in the British navy, gave the French
officers to understand, that his most christian majesty had no right to settle the island,
which was declared neutral by treaties; and that, if they would not desist, he should be obliged
to employ force in driving them from their new settlement. Night coming on, and Mr. Tyrrel's
ship falling to leeward, the French captains seized that opportunity of sailing to Martinique;
and next day the English commander returned to Barbadoes, having no power to commit hostilities.
These tidings, with a copy of the French governor's ordonnance, were no sooner transmitted
to the ministry than they despatched a courier to the English envoy at Paris, with directions
to make representations to the court of Versailles on this subject. The ministry of France,
knowing they were in no condition to support the consequences of an immediate rupture, and
understanding how much the merchants and people of Great Britain were alarmed and incensed
at their attempts to possess these islands, thought proper to disown the proceedings of the
marquis de Caylus, and to grant the satisfaction that was demanded, by sending him orders to
discontinue the settlement, and evacuate the island of Tobago. At the same time, however, that
the court of Versailles made this sacrifice for the satisfaction of England, the marquis de
Puysieux, the French minister, observed to the English resident, that France was undoubtedly
in possession of that island towards the middle of the last century. He ought in candour to
have added, that although Louis XIV. made a conquest of this island from the Hollanders, during
his war with that republic, it was restored to them by the treaty of Nimeguen; and since that
time France could not have the least shadow of a claim to number it among her settlements.
It was before this answer could be obtained from the court of Versailles that the motion, of
which we have already taken notice, was made in the house of commons, relating to the subject
of the neutral islands; a motion discouraged by the court, and defeated by the majority.

REJOICINGS FOR THE PEACE.

The peace of Aix-la-Chapelle was celebrated by fireworks, illuminations, and rejoicings, in
which the English, French, and Dutch, seemed to display a spirit of emulation in point of taste
and magnificence; and, in all probability, these three powers were sincerely pleased at the
cessation of the war. England enjoyed a respite from intolerable supplies, exorbitant insurance,
and interrupted commerce; Holland was delivered from the brink of a French invasion; and France
had obtained a breathing time for re-establishing her naval power, for exerting that spirit
of intrigue, by dint of which she hath often embroiled her neighbours, and for executing plans
of insensible encroachment, which might prove more advantageous than the progress of open hostilities.
In the affair of Tobago, the French king had manifested his inclination to avoid immediate
disputes with England; and had exhibited another proof of the same disposition in his behaviour
to the prince-pretender, who had excited such a dangerous rebellion in the island of Great Britain.

Among those princes and powers who excepted against different articles of the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle,
the chevalier de St. George, foreseeing that none of the plenipotentiaries would receive his
protest, employed his agents to fix it up in the public places of Aix-la-Chapelle; a precaution
of very little service to his cause, which all the states of Christendom seemed now to have
abandoned. So little was the interest of his family considered in this negotiation, that the
contracting powers agreed, without reserve, to a literal insertion of the fifth article of
the quadruple alliance; by which it was stipulated, that neither the pretender nor any of his
descendants should be allowed to reside within the territories belonging to any of the subscribing
parties. At the same time the plenipotentiaries of France promised to those of Great Britain,
that prince Charles-Edward should be immediately obliged to quit the dominions of his most
christian majesty. Notice of this agreement was accordingly given by the court of Versailles
to the young adventurer; and as he had declared he would never return to Italy, Mons. de Courteille,
the French envoy to the cantons of Switzerland, was directed by his sovereign to demand an
asylum for prince Edward in the city of Fribourg. The regency having complied in this particular
with the earnest request of his most christian majesty, Mr. Bamaby, the British minister to
the Helvetic body, took the alarm, and presented the magistracy of Fribourg with a remonstrance,
couched in such terms as gave offence to that regency, and drew upon him a severe answer. In
vain had the French king exerted his influence in procuring this retreat for the young pretender,
who, being pressed with repeated messages to withdraw, persisted in refusing to quit the place,
to which he had been so cordially invited by his cousin the king of France; and where he said
that monarch had solemnly promised, on the word of a king, that he would never forsake him
in his distress, nor abandon the interests of his family. Louis was not a little perplexed
at this obstinacy of prince Edward, which was the more vexatious, as that youth appeared to
be the darling of the Parisians; who not only admired him for his own accomplishments, and
pitied him for his sufferings, but also revered him, as a young hero lineally descended from
their renowned Henry the Fourth. At length, the two English noblemen arriving at Paris as hostages
for the performance of the treaty, and seeing him appear at all the public places of diversion,
complained of this circumstance as an insult to their sovereign, and an infringement of the
treaty so lately concluded. The French king, after some hesitation between punctilio and convenience,
resolved to employ violence upon the person of this troublesome stranger, since milder remonstrances
had not been able to influence his conduct; but this resolution was not taken till the return
of a courier whom he despatched to the chevalier de St. George; who, being thus informed of
his son's deportment, wrote a letter to him, laying strong injunctions upon him to yield to
the necessity of the times, and acquiesce with a good grace in the stipulations which his cousin
of France had found it necessary to subscribe for the interest of his realm. Edward, far from
complying with this advice and injunction, signified his resolution to remain in Paris; and
even declared that he would pistol any man who should presume to lay violent hands on his person.
In consequence of this bold declaration, an extraordinary council was held at Versailles, when
it was determined to arrest him without further delay, and the whole plan of this enterprise
was finally adjusted. That same evening, the prince entering the narrow lane that leads to
the opera, the barrier was immediately shut, and the sergeant of the guard called "to arms;"
on which monsieur de Vaudreuil, exempt of the French guards, advancing to Edward, "Prince,"
said he, "I arrest you in the king's name, by virtue of this order." At that instant the youth
was surrounded by four grenadiers, in order to prevent any mischief he might have done with
a case of pocket-pistols which he always carried about him; and a guard was placed at all the
avenues and doors of the opera-house, lest any tumult should have ensued among the populace.
These precautions being taken, Vaudreuil, with an escort, conducted the prisoner through the
garden of the palais-royal, to a house where the duke de Biron waited with a coach and six
to convey him to the castle of Vincennes, whether he was immediately accompanied by a detachment
from the regiment of French guards, under the command of that nobleman. He had not remained
above three days in his confinement, when he gave the French ministry to understand that he
would conform himself to the king's intentions; and was immediately enlarged, upon giving his
word and honour that he would, without delay, retire from the dominions of France. Accordingly,
he set out in four days from Fountainbleau, attended by three officers, who conducted him as
far as Pont-Bauvosin on the frontiers, where they took their leave of him and returned to Versailles.
He proceeded for some time in the road to Chamberri; but soon returned into the French dominions,
and, passing through Dauphiné, repaired to Avignon, where he was received with extraordinary
honours by the pope's legate. In the meantime, his arrest excited great murmurings at Paris;
the inhabitants blaming, without scruple, their king's conduct in this instance, as a scandalous
breach of hospitality, as well as a mean proof of condescension to the king of England; and
many severe pasquinades, relating to this transaction, were fixed up in the most public places
of that metropolis.

APPEARANCE OF A RUPTURE BETWEEN RUSSIA AND SWEDEN.

Although peace was now re-established among the principal powers of the continent, yet another
storm seemed ready to burst upon the northern parts of Europe, in a fresh rupture between Russia
and Sweden. Whether the czarina had actually obtained information that the French faction meditated
some revolution of government at Stockholm, or she wanted a pretence of annexing Finland to
her empire; certain it is, she affected to apprehend that the prince-successor of Sweden waited
only for the decease of the reigning king, who was very old and infirm, to change the form
of government, and resume that absolute authority which some of the monarchs, his predecessors,
had enjoyed. She seemed to think that a prince thus vested with arbitrary power, and guided
by the councils of France and Prussia, with which Sweden had lately engaged in close alliance,
might become a very troublesome and dangerous neighbour to her in the Baltic; she therefore
recruited her armies, repaired her fortifications, filled her magazines, ordered a strong body
of troops to advance towards the frontiers of Finland, and declared in plain terms to the court
of Stockholm, that if any step should be taken to alter the government, which she had bound
herself by treaty to maintain, her troops should enter the territory of Sweden, and she would
act up to the spirit of her engagements. The Swedish ministry, alarmed at these peremptory
proceedings, had recourse to their allies; and in the meantime, made repeated declarations
to the court of Petersburgh, that there was no design to make the least innovation in the nature
of their established government; but little or no regard being paid to these representations,
they began to put the kingdom in a posture of defence; and the old king gave the czarina to
understand, that if, notwithstanding the satisfaction he had offered, her forces should pass
the frontiers of Finland, he would consider their march as an hostile invasion, and employ
the means which God had put in his power for the defence of his dominions.

INTERPOSITION OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

This declaration, in all probability, did not produce such effect as the interposition of his
Prussian majesty, the most enterprising prince of his time, at the head of one hundred and
forty thousand of the best troops that Germany ever trained. Perhaps he was not sorry that
the empress of Muscovy furnished him with a plausible pretence for maintaining such a formidable
army, after the peace of Europe had been ascertained by a formal treaty, and all the surrounding
states had diminished the number of their forces. He now wrote a letter to his uncle the king
of Great Britain, complaining of the insults and menaces which had been offered by the czarina
to Sweden; declaring, that he was bound by a defensive alliance, to which France had acceded,
to defend the government at present established in Sweden; and that he would not sit still,
and tamely see that kingdom attacked by any power whatsoever, without acting up to his engagements;
he therefore entreated his Britannic majesty to interpose his good offices, in conjunction
with France and him, to compromise the disputes which threatened to embroil the northern parts
of Europe. By this time the Russian army had approached the frontiers of Finland: the Swedes
had assembled their troops, replenished their magazines, and repaired their marine; and the
king of Denmark, jealous of the czarina's designs with regard to the duchy of Sleswick, which
was contested with him by the prince-successor of Russia, kept his army and navy on the most
respectable footing. At this critical juncture the courts of London, Versailles, and Berlin,
co-operated so effectually by remonstrances and declarations at Petersburgh and Stockholm,
that the empress of Russia thought proper to own herself satisfied, and all those clouds of
trouble were immediately dispersed. Yet, in all probability, her real aim was disappointed;
and, however she might dissemble her sentiments, she never heartily forgave the king of Prussia
for the share he had in this transaction. That monarch, without relaxing in his attention to
the support of a very formidable military power, exerted very extraordinary endeavours in cultivating
the civil interests of his country. He reformed the laws of Brandenburgh, and rescued the administration
of justice from the frauds of chicanery. He encouraged the arts of agriculture and manufacture;
and even laid the foundation of naval commerce, by establishing an East-India company in the
port of Embden.

Nor did the French ministry neglect any measure that might contribute to repair the damage
which the kingdom had sustained in the course of the war. One half of the army was disbanded:
the severe imposition of the tenth penny was suspended by the king's edict: a scheme of economy
was proposed with respect to the finances; and the utmost diligence used in procuring materials,
as well as workmen, for ship-building, that the navy of France might speedily retrieve its
former importance. In the midst of these truly patriotic schemes, the court of Versailles betrayed
a littleness of genius, and spirit of tyranny, joined to fanaticism, in quarreling with their
parliament about superstitious forms of religion. The sacraments had been denied to a certain
person on his death-bed, because he refused to subscribe to the bull Unigenitus. The nephew
of the defunct preferred a complaint to the parliament, whose province it was to take cognizance
of the affair; a deputation of that body attended the king with the report of the resolutions;
and and his majesty commanded them to suspend all proceedings relating to a matter of such
consequence, concerning which he would take an opportunity of signifying his royal pleasure.
This interposition was the source of disputes between the crown and parliament, which had like
to have filled the whole kingdom with intestine troubles.

CONDUCT OF DIFFERENT EUROPEAN POWERS.

At Vienna, the empress-queen was not more solicitous in promoting the trade and internal manufactures
of her dominions, by sumptuary regulations, necessary restrictions on foreign superfluities,
by opening her ports in the Adriatic, and giving proper encouragement to commerce, than she
was careful and provident in reforming the economy of her finances, maintaining a respectable
body of forces, and guarding, by defensive alliances, against the enterprise of his Prussian
majesty, on whose military power she looked with jealousy and distrust. In Holland, all the
authority and influence of the stadtholder were scarcely sufficient to allay the ferments excited
among the people by the provisional taxation, which had succeeded the abolition of the patchers,
and was indeed very grievous to the subject. As this was no more than a temporary expedient,
the prince of Orange proposed a more equitable plan, which was approved by the states, and
established with great difficulty. In Italy the system of politics seemed to change its complexion.
The king of Sardinia effected a match between one of the infantas of Spain and the prince of
Piedmont; and whether irritated by the conduct of the Austrians in the last war, or apprehensive
of such a powerful neighbour in the Milanese, he engaged with the kings of France and Spain
in a defensive alliance, comprehending the king of the Two Sicilies, the republic of Genoa,
and the dukes of Modena and Parma. His most catholic majesty, sincerely disposed to cultivate
the arts of peace, and encourage every measure that could contribute to the advantage of his
country, was no sooner released from the embarrassments of war, than he began to execute plans
of internal economy; to reduce unnecessary pensions, discharge the debts contracted in the
war, replenish his arsenals, augment his navy, promote manufactures, and encourage an active
commerce by sea, the benefits of which the kingdom of Spain had not known since the first discovery
and conquest of the West Indies.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

INSOLENCE OF THE BARBARY CORSAIRS.

The preparations for refitting and increasing the navy of Spain were carried on with such extraordinary
vigour, that other nations believed an expedition was intended against the corsairs of Algiers,
who had for some time grievously infested the trade and coasts of the Mediterranean. The existence
of this and other predatory republics, which entirely subsist upon piracy and rapine, petty
states of barbarous ruffians, maintained as it were in the midst of powerful nations, which
they insult with impunity, and of which they even exact an annual contribution, is a flagrant
reproach upon Christendom; a reproach the greater, as it is founded upon a low, selfish, illiberal
maxim of policy. All the powers that border on the Mediterranean, except France and Tuscany,
are at perpetual war with the Moors of Barbary, and for that reason obliged to employ foreign
ships for the transportation of their merchandise. This employment naturally devolves to those
nations whose vessels are in no danger from the depredations of the barbarians; namely, the
subjects of the maritime powers, who for this puny advantage, not only tolerate the piratical
states of Barbary, but even supply them with arms and ammunition, solicit their passes, and
purchase their forbearance with annual presents, which are, in effect, equivalent to a tribute;
whereas, by one vigorous exertion of their power, they might destroy all their ships, lay their
towns in ashes, and totally extirpate those pernicious broods of desperate banditti. Even all
the condescension of those who disgrace themselves with the title of allies to these miscreants,
is not always sufficient to restrain them from acts of cruelty and rapine. At this very period
four cruisers from Algiers made a capture of an English packet-boat, in her voyage from Lisbon,
and conveyed her to their city, where she was plundered of money and effects to the amount
of one hundred thousand pounds, and afterwards dismissed. In consequence of this outrage, commodore
Keppel was sent with seven ships of war to demand satisfaction, as well as to compromise certain
differences which had arisen on account of arrears claimed of the English by the dey of Algiers.
The Mussulman frankly owned, that the money having been divided among the captors, could not
possibly be refunded. The commodore returned to Gibraltar; and, in the sequel, an Algerine
ambassador arrived in London, with some presents of wild beasts for his Britannic majesty.
This transaction was succeeded by another injurious affront offered by the governor or alcayde
of Tetuan to Mr. Latton, an English ambassador, sent thither to redeem the British subjects
who had been many years enslaved in the dominions of the king of Morocco. A revolution having
lately happened in this empire, Mully Abdallah, the reigning ruffian, insisted upon the ambassador's
paying a pretended balance for the ransom of the captives, as well as depositing a considerable
sum, which had already been paid to a deceased pacha; alleging, that as he, the emperor, received
no part of it, the payment was illegal. Mr. Latton refusing to comply with this arbitrary demand,
his house was surrounded by a detachment of soldiers, who violently dragged his secretary from
his presence, and threw him into a dismal subterranean dungeon, where he continued twenty days.
The English slaves, to the number of twenty-seven, were condemned to the same fate; the ambassador
himself was degraded from his character, deprived of his allowance, and sequestered from all
communication. All the letters directed to him were intercepted, and interpreted to the alcayde;
two negro porters were intrusted with the keys of all his apartments, and a couple of soldiers
posted at his chamber-door; nay, this Moorish governor threatened to load him with irons, and
violently seized part of the presents designed by his Britannic majesty for the emperor. At
length, finding that neither Mr. Latton nor the governor of Gibraltar, to whom he had written,
would deposit the money, without fresh instructions from the court of London, the barbarian
thought proper to relax in his severity: the prisoners were enlarged, the restrictions removed
from the person of the ambassador, and, after all these indignities offered to the honour of
the British nation, the balance was paid, and the affair quietly adjusted.

DISTURBANCES IN ENGLAND.

Britain, in the meanwhile, was altogether barren of events which might deserve a place in a
general history. Commerce and manufacture flourished again, to such a degree of increase as
had never been known in the island; but this advantage was attended with an irresistible tide
of luxury and excess, which flowed through all degrees of the people, breaking down all the
mounds of civil polity, and opening a way for license and immorality. The highways were infested
with rapine and assassination; the cities teemed with the brutal votaries of lewdness, intemperance,
and profligacy. The whole land was overspread with a succession of tumult, riot, and insurrection,
excited in different parts of the kingdom by the erection of new turnpikes, which the legislature
judged necessary for the convenience of inland carriage. In order to quell these disturbances,
recourse was had to the military power; several individuals were slain, and some were executed
as examples.

SESSION OPENED.

In the month of November the session of parliament was opened with a speech from the throne,
in which his majesty expressed a particular pleasure in meeting them at a time when the perfect
re-establishment of a general peace had restored to his people the blessings of quiet and tranquillity.
He said, the good effects of these already appeared in the flourishing condition of national
commerce, and in the rise of public credit, which were the foundations of strength and prosperity
to these kingdoms. He declared, that, during the summer, he had used every opportunity of cementing
and securing the peace; that it was his firm resolution to do everything in his power for the
preservation of it, and religiously adhere to the engagements into which he had entered. Finally,
he took notice of the good disposition he had found in the other contracting parties to the
treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle to cherish the public tranquillity of Europe; and he earnestly recommended
to the two houses the maintenance of a strong naval power, as the bulwark of national security.

When the motion was made for an address of thanks in the house of commons, the first paragraph
of his majesty's speech furnished the opposition with a handle to declaim against the late
treaty. Sir John Hinde Cotton observed, that the peace could not be properly styled complete,
as nothing had been stipulated with respect to the article of "No search;" alluding to the
interruption our commerce had sustained from the Spaniards in the West Indies; a stipulation,
without which both houses of parliament had formerly voted that there should be no peace with
that kingdom.

{1749}

In the present conjuncture of affairs, such an objection savoured rather of party than of patriotism;
and indeed sir John declared, that the remarks he made upon the occasion were rather in discharge
of the duty he owed to his country, than in hope of seeing his sentiments espoused by the majority.
Some sharp altercation was used in the debate which arose on this subject; and many severe
invectives were levelled at those who negotiated, as well as at those who approved and confirmed
the treaty. But Mr. Pelham, who sustained the whole weight of the debate on the side of the
administration, answered every objection with equal candour and ability; and if he failed in
proving that the terms of peace were as favourable as could be expected, considering the unfortunate
events of the war, and the situation of the contending powers; he at least demonstrated, that
it would be the interest of the kingdom to acquiesce for the present in the treaty which had
been concluded, and endeavour to remedy its imperfections by subsequent conventions, amicably
opened among those powers between whom any cause of dispute remained. With respect to the vote
of both houses, mentioned by sir John Hinde Cotton, he declared that he had never approved
of that step, when it was first taken; or if he had, times and circumstances, which could not
be foreseen, would have justified his deviating from it in the re-establishment of peace. He
reminded them that a parliament of Great Britain had once voted "no peace while any part of
the West Indies should remain in possession of the Spanish king;" yet a train of incidents,
which they could not possibly foresee, afterwards rendered it expedient to adopt a peace without
insisting upon the accomplishment of that condition. In a word, we must own, that, in the majority
of debates excited in the course of this session, the ministry derived their triumphs from
the force of reason, as well as from the weight of influence. We shall always, however, except
the efforts that were made for reducing the number of land-forces to fifteen thousand, and
maintaining a greater number of seamen than the ministry proposed. On these constitutional
points the earl of Egmont, and the other chiefs of the opposition, expatiated with all the
energy of eloquence; which however was frustrated by the power of superior numbers. Ten thousand
seamen were voted for the service of the ensuing year, notwithstanding his majesty's injunction
to maintain a considerable navy; and the number of land-forces was continued at eighteen thousand
eight hundred and fifty-seven. The sums granted for making good his majesty's engagements with
the electors of Bavaria and Mentz, and the duke of Brunswick Wolfenbuttle, amounted to fifty-three
thousand two hundred and twenty-five pounds sterling. The services done by the colonies in
North America, during the war, were gratified with the sum of one hundred and twenty-two thousand
two hundred and forty-six pounds. The expense incurred by the new colony of Nova-Scotia exceeded
seventy-six thousand pounds. A small sum was voted for the improvement of Georgia; and ten
thousand pounds were granted towards the support of the British forts and settlements on the
coast of Africa..

SCHEME FOR REDUCING THE INTEREST OF THE NATIONAL DEBT.

But the capital measure which distinguished this session of parliament was the reduction of
the interest on the public funds; a scheme which was planned and executed by the minister,
without any national disturbance or disquiet, to the astonishment of all Europe; the different
nations of which could not comprehend how it would be possible for the government, at the close
of a long expensive war, which had so considerably drained the country, and augmented the enormous
burden of national debt, to find money for paying off such of the public creditors as might
choose to receive the principal, rather than submit to a reduction of the interest. It was
not very much for the honour of the opposition, that some of its leading members endeavoured
to impede this great machine of civil economy, by taking opportunities of affirming in parliament,
in opposition to his majesty's speech, that the nation, far from being in a flourishing condition,
was almost entirely exhausted; that commerce drooped and declined; that public credit stood
tottering on the brink of ruin; and that all the treaties lately concluded among the different
powers of Europe were, in effect, disadvantageous and prejudicial to the interests of Great
Britain. In answer to these assertions, Mr. Pelham undertook to prove, from the register of
exports and imports, that the commerce of the kingdom was more extensive at this than at any
former period; and that the public credit was strong enough to admit of an experiment, which
he would not presume to hazard, except upon a moral certainty of its being firmly rooted beyond
the power of accident and faction to shake or overturn. He declared, that his design of reducing
the interest upon the funds was the result of the love he bore his country, and an opinion
that it was the duty of the servants of the crown to ease the burdens of the people. He said,
he had conferred on this subject with persons of the most approved knowledge, and undoubted
experience; and chose to promulgate the method proposed for alleviating the load of the national
debt, that the public, in knowing the particulars of the scheme, might have time to consider
them at leisure, and start such objections as should occur to their reflection, before it might
be too late to adopt amendments. He observed, that nothing could more clearly demonstrate the
vigour of public credit, and the augmentation of national commerce, than the price of stock,
which had within three years risen to a very considerable increase; and the duties on imports,
which in nine months had added one million to the sinking fund, notwithstanding a very extraordinary
sum which had been paid as bounties for exported corn. He expressed great tenderness and regard
for the interests of those who had advanced their money for the service of the government;
declaring, that his aim was to contrive a fair, honest, and equitable method for lessening
the national incumbrances, by lowering the interest, conformable to parliamentary faith, and
agreeable to the rules of eternal justice. His plan was accordingly communicated, canvassed,
and ap proved in the house of commons, and an act passed for reducing the interest of the funds
which constitute the national debt. [321] [See note 2 Q, at the end of this Vol.] In pursuance
of this act for the reduction of the interest, the greater part of the creditors complied with
the terms proposed, and subscribed their respective annuities before the end of February; but
the three great companies at first kept aloof, and refused to subscribe any part of their capital.

About the middle of March the commons ordered the proper officers to lay before them an account
of the sums which had been subscribed, and these were taken into consideration by a committee
of the whole house. It was then that Mr. Pelham, as chancellor of the exchequer, observed,
that besides the debts due to the three great companies in their corporate capacity, all the
rest, carrying four per centum interest, had been subscribed, except about eight or nine millions,
the proprietors of which had forfeited the favour designed them by parliament; but as many
of these had been misled by evil counsellors, who perhaps were more intent on distressing the
government, than solicitous to serve their friends; and as many were foreigners, residing beyond
sea, who had not time to take proper advice, and give the necessary instruction; and as these
could not possibly be distinguished from such as refused to subscribe from mere obstinacy or
disaffection, it might be thought cruel to take the most rigorous advantage of the forfeiture
they had incurred. With respect to the proprietors of the stock or capital belonging to the
three great companies, he asserted, that many of them would willingly have subscribed their
properties within the time limited, but were necessarily excluded by the majority on the ballot;
and as it was equally impossible to know those who were against the question on the ballot,
he thought that some tenderness was due even to the proprietors of those three companies; his
opinion therefore was, that they and the uncomplying annuitants should be indulged with further
time to complete their subscription; but, in order to preserve the authority of parliament,
and the respect due to that august assembly, they ought not to be gratified with such advantageous
terms as were allowed to the annuitants who at first cheerfully complied with the proposals
offered by the legislature. For these reasons he proposed, that although the term of subscribing
should be protracted till the thirtieth day of May, the encouragement of three pounds ten shillings
per centum per annum should not be continued to the second subscribers longer than till the
fifth day of December, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-five. The proposal
being approved, a bill was framed for this purpose, as well as for redeeming such annuities
as should not be subscribed, which passed through both houses, and was enacted into a law,
after having received an additional clause, empowering the East India company, in case they
should subscribe all their stock bearing an interest of four per centum, to borrow, with the
consent of the treasury, any sums not exceeding four millions two hundred thousand pounds,
after the several rates of interest before proposed to be paid by the public, and one million
more at three per centum per annum. They were also vested with a power to raise money by bonds
as formerly; yet so as the whole, including the annuities, should not exceed what they were
by former acts empowered to borrow. The objections to the execution of this project, which
by many were deemed insurmountable, entirely vanished before the fortitude, perseverance, and
caution of the minister; who had secured, among the monied men of the nation, the promise of
such sums as would have been sufficient to pay off the capital belonging to those creditors
who might refuse to accept the interest thus reduced. The second subscription had the desired
effect. The three great companies acquiesced, and their example was followed by the other scrupulous
annuitants; the national burden was comfortably lightened, and the sinking fund considerably
increased, without producing the least perplexity or disturbance in the commonwealth; a circumstance
that could not fail to excite the admiration and envy of all Christendom.

{1750}

NEW MUTINY BILL.

The mutiny bill for the ensuing year was mitigated with an essential alteration, relating to
the oath of secrecy imposed upon the members of every court-martial, who were now released
from this reserve if required to give evidence, by due course of law, in any court of judicature;
and whereas, by the former mutiny bill, a general was empowered to order the revival of any
sentence by a court-martial as often as he pleased, and, on that pretence, to keep in confinement
a man who had been acquitted upon a fair trial; it was now enacted, that no sentence pronounced
by any court-martial, and signed by the president, should be more than once liable to revisal.
Colonel George Townshend, son of lord viscount Townshend, who had equally distinguished himself
by his civil and military accomplishments, proposed another clause, for preventing any noncommissioned
officer's being broke or reduced into the ranks; or any soldier's being punished, but by the
sentence of a court-martial. He gave the house to understand, that certain persons attended
at the door, who from the station of non-commissioned officers had been broke, and reduced
into the ranks, without trial, or any cause assigned; and he expatiated not only upon the iniquity
of such proceedings, but also upon the danger of leaving such arbitrary power in the hands
of any individual officer. A warm debate was the consequence of this motion, which, however,
was overruled by the majority.

BILL FOR ENCOURAGING the IMPORTATION OF IRON FROM AMERICA.

Among other regulations made in the course of this session for the encouragement of the British
manufactures, a large duty was laid upon Irish sail-cloth, which being sold at an under price,
was found to interfere with the same species of commodity fabricated in the island of Great
Britain; and, for the farther benefit of this last, the bounty upon the exportation of it,
which had been deducted from a defective fund, was now made payable out of the customs. This
measure, however, was not of such importance to the nation, as the act which they passed for
encouraging the importation of pig and bar iron from the British colonies in North America.
Every well-wisher to his country reflected with concern on the nature of the British trade
with Sweden, from which kingdom the subjects of his Britannic majesty imported more iron and
steel than all the other countries in Europe. For this article they paid a very great balance
in ready money, which the Swedes again expended in purchasing from the French, and other mercantile
powers, those necessaries and superfluities with which they might have been as cheaply furnished
by Great Britain. In the meantime, the English colonies in America were restricted by severe
duties from making advantage of their own produce, in exchanging their iron for such commodities
as they were under the necessity of procuring from their mother country. Such restrictions
was not only a cruel grievance upon our own settlements, but also attended with manifest prejudice
to the interest of Great Britain, annually drained of great sums in favour of an ungrateful
nation, from which no part of them returned; whereas the iron imported from America must of
necessity come in exchange for our own manufactures. The commons having appointed a day for
taking this affair into consideration, carefully examined into the state of the British commerce
carried on with Sweden, as well as into the accounts of iron imported from the plantations
of America; and a committee of the whole house having resolved, that the duties on American
pig and bar iron should be removed, a bill [322] [See note 2 R, at the end of this Vol.] was
brought in for that purpose, containing a clause, however, to prevent his majesty's subjects
from making steel, and establishing mills for slitting and rolling iron within the British
colonies of America: this precaution being taken, that the colonists might not interfere with
the manufactures of their mother country.

ERECTION OF THE BRITISH HERRING FISHERY.

The next commercial improvement of which we shall take notice, was the bill for the encouragement
of the British white herring and cod fisheries. This was likewise the result of mature deliberation,
importing, that a bounty of thirty shillings per ton should be granted, and paid out of the
customs, to all new vessels from twenty to fourscore tons burden, which should be built for
that purpose, and actually employed in the fishery; that a society should be incorporated,
under the name of the Free British Fishery, by a charter, not exclusive, with power to raise
a capital not exceeding five hundred thousand pounds; and that three pounds ten shillings per
centum per annum, should be granted and paid out of the customs to the proprietors for fourteen
years, for so much of the capital as should be actually employed in the said fisheries. Corresponding
chambers were proposed to be erected in remote parts of North Britain, for taking in subscriptions,
and prosecuting the trade, under the directions of the company at London; and the nation in
general seemed eager to dispute this branch of commerce with the subjects of Holland, whom
they considered as ungrateful interlopers. In the house of peers, however, the bill met with
a formidable opposition from the earl of Winchelsea and lord Sandys, who justly observed, that
it was a crude indigested scheme, which in the execution would never answer the expectations
of the people; that in contending with the Dutch, who are the patterns of unwearied industry
and the most rigid economy, nothing could be more absurd than a joint-stock company, which
is always clogged with extraordinary expense; and the resolution of fitting out vessels at
the port of London, where all sorts of materials, labour, and seamen, are so much dearer than
in any other part of the united kingdom, exclusive of the great distance and dangerous voyage
between the metropolis and the sound of Brassa in Shetland, the rendezvous at which all the
herring-busses were to assemble in the beginning of the fishing season. They likewise took
notice of the heavy duty on salt, used in curing the fish for sale, and the beef for provisions
to the mariners; a circumstance of itself sufficient to discourage adventurers from embarking
in a commerce which, at best, yields but very slender profits to the trade in particular, how
important soever it might prove to the community in general. These objections were answered
by the duke of Argyle and the earl of Granville, who seemed to think that this branch of trade
could not be fairly set on foot, without such a considerable sum of money as no single individual
would care to advance; that a joint-stock company would be able to prosecute the fishery at
a smaller expense than that which particular traders must necessarily incur; that the present
spirit of the nation, which was eagerly bent upon trying the experiment, ought not to be balked
by delay, lest it should evaporate; and that though the plan was not unexceptionable, the defects
of it might in the sequel be remedied by the legislature. In a word, the bill was adopted by
the majority, with a small amendment in the title, which produced some disquiets in the lower
house; but this dispute was compromised, and it was enacted into a law towards the close of
the session. Nothing could be more agreeable to the public than the sanction of the legislature
to this favourite plan, which was ardently promoted, and patronised by men of the greatest
eminence for wealth and popularity. The company chose for their governor the prince of Wales,
who received this proof of their attachment and respect with particular marks of satisfaction;
the president and vice-president were both aldermen of London; and the council was composed
of thirty gentlemen, the majority of whom were members of parliament. Great pains were taken,
and some artifice was used, to learn the Dutch method of curing the fish. People crowded with
their subscriptions; a number of hands were employed in building and equipping the busses or
vessels used in the fishery; and the most favourable consequences were expected from the general
vigour and alacrity which animated these preparations. But the success did not gratify the
sanguine hopes of the projectors and adventurers. The objections made in the house of lords
soon appeared to have been well founded; these co-operating with mismanagement in the directors,
the spirit of the company began to flag, the natural consequences of commercial disappointment;
and now the British fishery seems to languish under the neglect of the legislature.

NEW AFRICAN COMPANY.

Touching the trade to the coast of Africa, petitions were renewed by the company and its creditors,
the merchants of Bristol, Liverpool, and Lancaster; and a remonstrance was presented by the
planters and merchants interested in the British sugar settlements in America; but the commons
adhered to their former resolutions of laying open the trade, maintaining the forts at the
public expense, and regulating the commerce by a committee of merchants, representing the chief
trading towns in the kingdom, to be superintended by the board of trade and plantations. The
bill was accordingly framed and presented, and having proceeded through both houses without
opposition, obtained the royal assent. Over and above these wise, salutary, and patriotic measures
for the improvement of commerce, they encouraged the importation of raw silk by an act, reducing
the duties formerly payable on that which was the growth of China to the same that is raised
on the raw silk from Italy, and allowing the same drawback upon the exportation of the one
which had been usually granted on the other. A second bill was brought in for the encouragement
of the growth and culture of silk in Carolina and Georgia, where it had been lately produced
with extraordinary success, by freeing from all duties that which should be imported from his
majesty's dominions in America; and a third was framed, permitting raw silk of the growth or
produce of Persia, purchased in Russia, to be imported into Great Britain, from any port or
place belonging to the empire of Russia. Divers efforts were made, by different members in
the opposition, to rectify certain abuses in the army and administration; some bills were brought
in, and several petitions were left on the table; but all of them proved abortive, from the
power and influence of the minister, who seemed resolved that no benefit should flow upon the
nation through any channel but his own. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged, for the honour
of his memory, that there is no session on record so productive as this was of measures advantageous
to the community.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

WESTMINSTER ELECTION.

The people, however, were not entirely satisfied with the conduct of the administration, if
we may judge from the ferment and commotions raised during the progress of an election for
a citizen to represent the city of Westminster in parliament. The seat which had been filled
by lord Trentham, eldest son of earl Gower, having become vacant, in consequence of that nobleman's
accepting a place at the board of admiralty, he again declared himself a candidate, and met
with a violent opposition. Those who styled themselves the independent electors of Westminster,
being now incensed to an uncommon degree of turbulence by the interposition of ministerial
influence, determined to use their utmost endeavours to baffle the designs of the court, and
at the same time take vengeance on the family of earl Gower, who had entirely abandoned the
opposition, of which he was formerly one of the most respected leaders. With this view they
held consultations, agreed to resolutions, and set up a private gentleman, named sir George
Vandeput, as the competitor of lord Trentham, declaring that they would support his pretensions
at their own expense, being the more encouraged to this enterprise by the countenance and assistance
of the prince of Wales and his adherents. They accordingly opened houses of entertainment for
their partisans, solicited votes, circulated remonstrances, and propagated abuse; in a word,
they canvassed, with surprising spirit and perseverance, against the whole interest of St.
James'. Mobs were hired and processions made on both sides, and the city of Westminster was
filled with tumult and uproar. The mutual animosity of the parties seemed every day to increase
during the election, and a great number of unqualified votes were presented on both sides;
all the powers of insinuation, obloquy, and ridicule, were employed to vilify and depreciate
both candidates. At length the poll being closed, a majority of votes appeared in behalf of
lord Trentham; but a scrutiny being demanded by the other side, the returning officer complied
with their request. The speaker of the lower house had issued his warrant for a new writ of
election about the middle of November; and towards the end of February, Mr. Fox, secretary
at war, standing up and observing that no return had yet been made, thought proper to move
that the clerk of the crown, the messenger-extraordinary attending the great seal, the under-sheriff
of Middlesex, and the high-bailiff of Westminster, should attend next morning and give an account
of their issuing, delivering, and executing the writ of election. These being examined, and
the high-bailiff declaring that he would proceed with all possible despatch in the scrutiny
which had been demanded and was begun, Mr. Speaker explained to him some particulars of his
duty, in the discharge of which, he was given to understand, he might depend upon the protection
of the house, should he meet with any obstruction which he could not otherwise surmount, By
the violence and caprice with which a great number of votes were contested on both sides, the
scrutiny was protracted a long time, and the return attended with some extraordinary consequences,
which shall be particularized among the transactions of the next year. In the meantime, the
present session of parliament was closed on the twelfth day of April, with a speech from the
throne, commending the commons for having seized the very first opportunity of reducing the
interest of the national debt, without the least infringement upon the faith of parliament;
and congratulating them on the flourishing state of the public credit, which could not fail
to add strength and reputation to the government, both at home and abroad. Immediately after
the rising of the parliament, his majesty appointed a regency to govern the kingdom in his
absence, and embarked for the continent in order to visit his German dominions.

EARTHQUAKES IN LONDON.

The month of January and the beginning of February were distinguished, the first day by a very
remarkable Aurora Borealis appearing at night to the north-east, of a deep and dusky red colour,
like the reflection of some great fire, for which it was by many people mistaken; and the coruscations,
unlike those that are generally observed, did not meet in the zenith, but in a point some degrees
to the southward. February was ushered in by terrible peals of thunder, flashes of lightning,
and such a tempest of wind, hail, and rain, as overwhelmed with fear and consternation the
inhabitants of Bristol, where it chiefly raged. On the eighth day of the same month, between
twelve and one in the afternoon, the people of London were still more dreadfully alarmed by
the shock of an earthquake, which shook all the houses with such violence, that the furniture
rocked on the floors, the pewter and porcelain rattled on the shelves, the chamber-bells rang,
and the whole of this commotion was attended by a clap of noise resembling that produced by
the fall of some heavy piece of furniture. The shock extended through the cities of London
and Westminster, and was felt on both sides of the river Thames, from Greenwich to the westward
of London; but not perceptible at a considerable distance. On the very same day of the next
month, between five and six o'clock in the morning, the inhabitants of the metropolis were
again affrighted by a second shock, more violent than the first, and abundantly more alarming,
as it waked the greater part of the people from their repose. It was preceded by a succession
of thick low flashes of lightning, and a rumbling noise, like that of a heavy carriage rolling
over a hollow pavement. The shock itself consisted of repeated vibrations, which lasted some
seconds, and violently shook every house from top to bottom. Again the chairs rocked, the shelves
clattered, the small bells rang, and in some places public clocks were heard to strike. Many
persons, roused by this terrible visitation, started naked from their beds, and ran to their
doors and windows in distraction; yet no life was lost, and no house overthrown by this concussion,
though it was so dreadful as to threaten an immediate dissolution of the globe. The circumstance,
however, did not fail to make a deep impression upon ignorant, weak, and superstitious minds,
which were the more affected by the consideration that the two shocks were periodical; that
the second, which happened exactly one month after the first, had been the more violent; and
that the next, increasing in proportion, might be attended with the most dismal consequences.
This general notion was confirmed, and indeed propagated, among all ranks of people, by the
admonitions of a fanatic soldier, who publicly preached up repentance, and boldly prophesied
that the next shock would happen on the same day of April, and totally destroy the cities of
London and Westminster. Considering the infectious nature of fear and superstition, and the
emphatic manner in which the imagination had been prepared and prepossessed, it was no wonder
that the prediction of this illiterate enthusiast should have contributed, in a great measure,
to augment the general terror. The churches were crowded with penitent sinners; the sons of
riot and profligacy were overawed into sobriety and decorum. The streets no longer resounded
with execrations, or the noise of brutal licentiousness; and the iand of charity was liberally
opened. Those whom fortune had enabled to retire from the devoted city, fled to the country
with hurry and precipitation, insomuch that the highways were encumbered with horses and carriages.
Many who had in the beginning combated these groundless fears with the weapons of reason and
ridicule, began insensibly to imbibe the contagion, and felt their hearts fail in proportion
as the hour of probation approached; even science and philosophy were not proof against the
unaccountable effects of this communication. In after ages it will hardly be believed, that
on the evening of the eighth day of April, the open fields that skirt the metropolis were filled
with an incredible number of people assembled in chairs, in chaises, and coaches, as well as
on foot, who waited in the most fearful suspense until morning, and the return of day disproved
the truth of the dreaded prophecy. Then their fears vanished; they returned to their respective
habitations in a transport of joy; and were soon reconciled to their abandoned vices, which
they seemed to resume with redoubled affection, and once more bade defiance to the vengeance
of heaven.

PESTILENTIAL FEVER AT THE SESSION IN THE OLD BAILEY.

By this time all the gaols in England were filled with the refuse of the army and navy, which
having been dismissed at the peace, and either averse to labour or excluded from employment,
had naturally preyed upon the commonwealth. Great numbers of those wretches who, by proper
regulations, might have been rendered serviceable to the community, were executed as examples;
and the rest perished miserably, amidst the stench and horrors of noisome dungeons. Even the
prison of Newgate was rendered so infectious by the uncommon crowds of confined felons stowed
together in close apartments, that the very air they breathed acquired a pestilential degree
of putrefaction. It was this putrefied air, which, adhering to the clothes of the malefactors
brought to trial at the bar of the Old Bailey, in May, produced among the audience a pestilential
fever, which infected and proved fatal to the lord mayor of London, to one alderman, two of
the judges, divers lawyers who attended the session, the greatest part of the jury, and a considerable
number of the spectators. In order to prevent such disasters for the future, the gaols were
cleansed, and accommodated with ventilators, which exhaust the foul and supply a circulation
of fresh air; and other humane precautions were taken for the benefit of the prisoners.

DISPUTES BETWEEN RUSSIA AND SWEDEN.

The affairs of the continent underwent no remarkable alteration. An ambassador-extraordinary
being sent to Petersburgh from the court of London, declared to the czarina's minister, that,
in case of a rupture between Russia and Sweden, occasioned by the hostilities committed by
the former power, his Britannic majesty would consider Russia as the aggressor, and the czarina
could not expect that he would supply her with the succours which he was engaged by treaty
to furnish for her defence, in case she should be attacked. A declaration of the same nature
was made by the ambassador of her Imperial majesty the queen of Hungary, while the ministers
of France and Prussia, who were in strict alliance with Sweden, gave her to understand that
they would punctually fulfil their engagements with the court of Stockholm, should she actually
invade the Swedish territories of Finland. The spirit with which the king of Prussia exerted
himself on this occasion, gave infinite umbrage to the czarina, who, indeed, expressed her
resentment, by treating the minister of Brandenburgh with contemptuous neglect, and even refused
to favour him with an audience till he should be vested with the character of ambassador. Thus
were sewn the seeds of misunderstanding between those two powers, which, in the sequel, grew
up to the most bitter animosity, and served to inflame those dissensions which have desolated
the fairest provinces of Germany. The remonstrance of his Prussian majesty, with respect to
the troubles of the North, was couched in such terms as gave dissatisfaction to the court of
Petersburgh. The Russian minister retired from Berlin without the ceremony of taking leave,
and the Prussian ambassador Warendorf was recalled from the court of the czarina.

PLAN FOR ELECTING THE ARCHDUKE JOSEPH KING OF THE ROMANS.

The attention of his Britannic majesty was not wholly engrossed by the disputes between Russia
and Sweden. He had another object in view, which more nearly concerned the interests of his
German dominions; and had set on foot two negotiations of the utmost importance to the commerce
and advantage of Great Britain. His first and principal aim was, in conjunction with the court
of Vienna, to take such measures as would secure the succession of the Imperial dignity to
the archduke Joseph, eldest son and heir to the reigning emperor. As the previous step to that
elevation, it was proposed to elect this young prince king of the Romans; and for this purpose
it was necessary to procure a majority not only of the electors, but also in the diet of the
empire, through which the proposal must have passed. No stone was left unturned to reconcile
this expedient to the German princes. Subsidies were offered by the maritime powers of England
and the states-general to the electors of Mentz and Cologn; and a treaty of the same nature
was concluded with the elector of Bavaria, who, in consideration of an annual subsidy, amounting
to forty thousand pounds sterling, two-thirds to be paid by Britain, and the rest by the states-general,
engaged to keep in readiness a body of six thousand infantry, as auxiliaries to the maritime
powers, though not to act against the emperor or empire; and to join the interest of his Britannic
majesty in the diet, as well as in the electoral college. In order to render the king of Poland,
elector of Saxony, propitious to this design, he was accommodated with the loan of a very considerable
sum, upon the mortgage of certain bailiwicks and lordships belonging to the Saxon dominions.
Thus a majority of the electors was secured, and such foundations were laid for the success
of this project, that it was generally believed it would be accomplished in his Britannic majesty's
next visit to his German dominions. Hopes, it was said, were given to the king of Sweden, that
his concurrence would be gratified by erecting the house of Hesse-Cassel, of which he was head,
into a tenth electorate. Arguments of an interesting nature were used with the king of Prussia,
and the elector-palatine, that if possible, the diet might unanimously approve of this measure,
so necessary for establishing the peace of the empire, and preventing such troubles as arose
from a disputed succession at the death of Charles the Sixth. These endeavours, however, did
not succeed in their full extent. The king of Prussia, as elector of Brandenburgh, opposed
the election as unnecessary and improper, on account of the health and vigour of the reigning
emperor, and the tender years of the archduke. This monarch had set himself up as a balance
to the power of the house of Austria, which had long aspired to absolute dominion over its
co-estates, and endeavoured to establish an hereditary right of succession to the empire; he
therefore employed all his influence to frustrate the measure proposed, either actuated by
a spirit of pure patriotism, or inspired with designs which he had not yet thought proper to
declare. The opposition was joined by the elector-palatine, and countenanced by the French
king; who protested, that, for the sake of peace, he would not oppose this election, though
contrary to the Golden Bull, provided it should be confirmed by the unanimous consent of the
electoral college; but should any one member signify his dissent, and he or any state of the
empire claim the protection and assistance of his most christian majesty, he could not dispense
with granting both, in consequence of his being guarantee of the treaty of Westphalia; an engagement
by which he was obliged to succour those princes and states of the empire who might have recourse
to him, in case of any grievance they suffered contrary to what was stipulated in that constitution.
This declaration co-operating with the known character of his Prussian majesty, whose great
army over-awed Hanover and Bohemia, in all probability damped that vigour with which the courts
of Vienna and Herenhausen had hitherto prosecuted this important negotiation.

DISPUTES WITH THE FRENCH ABOUT THE LIMITS OF NOVA SCOTIA.

The second object that employed the attention of the British ministry, was the establishment
of the precise limits of Acadia, or Nova Scotia, where the new colony had suffered great mischief
and interruption from the incursions of the Indians, excited to these outrages by the subjects
and emissaries of France. Commissaries had been appointed, by both crowns, to meet at Paris
and compromise these disputes: but the conferences were rendered abortive by every art of cavilling,
chicanery, and procrastination, which the French commissioners opposed to the justice and perspicuity
of the English claims. They not only misinterpreted treaties, though expressed with the utmost
precision, and perplexed the conferences with difficulties and matter foreign to the subject,
but they carried the finesse of perfidy so far as to produce false charts and maps of the country,
in which the rivers and boundaries were misplaced and misrepresented. At this time also the
insincerity of the French court appeared in affected delays and artful objections, with respect
to the evacuation of the neutral islands in the West Indies; and the governors of the British
plantations, in different parts of North America, transmitted intelligence that the French
had begun to make encroachments on the back of the English colonies.

TREATY WITH SPAIN.

Perhaps the precarious footing on which the peace stood between Great Britain and France at
this juncture, and the critical situation of affairs in Germany, determined the ministry of
England to compromise all differences with Spain, upon such terms as at any other time they
would hardly have embraced. In order to discuss those points between the two nations, which
had not been settled by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, conferences were also begun at Madrid,
and carried on by Mr. Keene, plenipotentiary to his Britannic majesty, and don Joseph de Carvajal
and Lancastro, the Spanish king's minister. At length a treaty was concluded on these conditions--the
king of Spain engaged to pay, in three months, to the South-sea company of England, one hundred
thousand pounds sterling, as an indemnification for all claims upon his crown, by virtue of
the assiento. In other respects, the trade and navigation of the English to the ports of Spain
were regulated by former treaties. It was stipulated, that they should pay no other duties
than those that were exacted of them in the reign of Charles II. of Spain; that they should
be treated on the footing of the most favoured nations; and continue to enjoy the privilege
of taking salt at the island of Tortuga. But there was no article restricting the Spanish guarda
costas from searching the British vessels on the high seas; although, as we have already observed,
this insolent prerogative, assumed without right, and exercised without humanity, was in effect
the original and sole cause of the late rupture, which had been attended with such enormous
expense to the nation. It must be owned, however, that his catholic majesty was at this period
extremely well disposed to live upon good terms with Great Britain. He was resolved to indulge
his people with the blessings of peace, to propagate a spirit of industry throughout his dominions,
and in particular to encourage commerce, which he foresaw would prove a much more certain and
inexhaustible source of wealth, power, and influence, than all the treasures he could drain
from the mines of Mexico and Peru. His resolutions on this interesting subject were chiefly
directed by don Ricardo Wall, who now acted as his minister at London; a gentleman of Irish
extract, who had distinguished himself in the field as well as in the cabinet, and possessed
the joint qualifications of a general and a statesman. He had, by virtue of a passport, come
over privately to England before the peace, in order to pave the way for the treaty, by a secret
negotiation with the English ministers; but immediately after the peace was proclaimed, he
appeared in the character of ambassador. He was possessed of the most insinuating address,
shrewd, penetrating, and inquisitive. While he resided in London, he spared no pains in learning
the nature of those manufactures, and that commerce, by which Great Britain had been so remarkably
aggrandized; and on his return to Spain, where in a little time he was placed at the helm of
affairs, he turned the knowledge he had thus acquired to the advantage of his country. He not
only promoted the useful arts, within the kingdom of Spain, but demonstrated the infinite advantage
that would accrue from an active trade, which the Spaniards had for many-ages neglected; and
in a few years their ships were seen to swarm in all the commercial ports of Europe. Of other
foreign events which distinguished this summer, the most remarkable was the death of John,
king of Portugal, who perfectly understood, and steadily pursued, the true interests of his
country, and in whom many princely qualities were debased by a cruel spirit of bigotry and
superstition. He was succeeded by his eldest son Joseph, who, if he has fallen short of his
father in some respects, cannot be justly charged with having inherited this paternal weakness.

SESSION OPENED.

The king of Great Britain having returned to England, opened the session of parliament in January
with a speech, importing, that he had concluded a treaty with the king of Spain, and amicably
adjusted such differences as could not be so properly compromised in a general treaty; that
the commerce of this nation with that country was re-established upon the most advantageous
and sure foundations; and that there was the greatest reason to hope the ancient friendship
between Great Britain and Spain would, from mutual inclination as well as interest, be now
effectually restored. He told them, that in conjunction with the empress-queen and the states-general,
he had concluded a treaty with the elector of Bavaria; and was employed in taking such further
measures as might best tend to strengthen and secure the tranquillity of the empire, support
its system, and timely anticipate such events as had been found by experience to endanger the
common cause, involve Europe in the calamities of war, and occasion the loss of much blood
and treasure to these kingdoms. He promised that both these treaties should be subjected to
their perusal; he gave them to understand that he had received from all the other contracting
powers in the definitive treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, the most full and clear declarations of
their resolution to preserve the general peace; and that he had taken care to consolidate the
ties of union and friendship between him and his allies, the better to secure their mutual
interests, maintain the peace already subsisting, and prevent the occasion of any future rupture.
Finally, he recommended unanimity, the improvement of commerce, and the effectual suppression
of such outrages and violences as are inconsistent with good order and government, and endanger
the lives and properties of the subject, whose happiness and flourishing condition he had entirely
at heart.

When the motion was made for an address of thanks, couched in terms that savoured of the most
implicit complaisance, approbation, and acquiescence in the measures which the crown had taken,
the earl of Egmont, and some other anti-courtiers, affirmed, that such an address would be
equally servile and absurd. They observed, that nothing could be more preposterous than a blind
approbation of measures which they did not know; that nothing could be more ridiculous than
their congratulations on the present happy tranquillity, when almost every day's newspapers
informed them of some British ships being seized by the Spaniards, or some new attack made
by the French on our infant colony of Nova Scotia. With respect to the continent of Europe,
they affirmed, that the tranquillity of Germany would have been upon a much more solid foundation,
had England never interposed in the affairs of the empire: in that case the princes would of
themselves have supported the constitution of their own country; that the election of an infant
for the king of the Romans was much more likely to disturb than establish the tranquillity
of Europe; because it would help to overturn the constitution of the empire, by rendering the
imperial dignity hereditary in one house, instead of being the result of a free election. They
took notice that the constitution had provided vicars to govern the empire during the vacancy
of the imperial throne; but had made no provision of regents, protectors, or guardians, for
a minor emperor, because it was never supposed that a minor would be chosen. They inveighed
against the late treaty with Spain; in which, they said, the ministry, for the paltry sum of
one hundred thousand pounds, had given up the claims of the South-Sea company, and other British
merchants, who had suffered from depredations to the amount of one million three hundred thousand
pounds; and bartered away the freedom of our trade and navigation, by leaving untouched that
prerogative which the Spaniards had assumed, of searching the British ships in the open seas,
and confiscating them should they find on board the least particle of what they called contraband
merchandise. They produced an instance of an English ship, lately driven by stress of weather
into one of the ports of the Spanish West Indies, where she was searched, seized and condemned,
under this pretence. They recapitulated the conduct of the French, who, in the midst of their
declarations of peace and moderation, were still employed in fortifying their settlements on
the neutral islands, as well as in harassing and encroaching upon our plantations in North
America. They exclaimed against the treaty of subsidy with the elector of Bavaria, or any other
prince in time of peace; observing, that for some years the nation had paid such pensions to
the Danes and the Hessians; but, in the course of the late war, the former abandoned our interests,
and the latter actually took arms against Great Britain. They affirmed that the subsidy was
greater than the nation could spare; for, unless the land-tax should be continued at four shillings
in the pound, they could not afford a shilling to any prince in Germany, without encroaching
upon the sinking fund. "At such a juncture," said a certain member, "will any gentleman presume
to propose the continuation of such an imposition on the land-holder, for the sake of bribing
the princes of Germany to do what?--to preserve the freedom and independency of their native
country. I say, princes of Germany, because this subsidy to Bavaria will signify nothing unless
we take half a score more of them into our pay; and when we have thus indulged them for seven
years of peace, they may give us the slip, as others have done, whenever another war should
be declared." Against these objections the motion was supported by Mr. William Pitt, at this
time an advocate for the ministry. He observed, that the address was no more than the usual
compliment to the throne, which did not imply an obligation on the parliament to approve of
measures which they might find cause to censure upon further inquiry. He said, the trivial
disputes still subsisting between this nation and the Spaniards, or French, would soon be terminated
amicably, and could never affect the general tranquillity of Europe, which was to be established
upon a firm alliance between his majesty and such a confederacy upon the continent, as would
be an over-match for the house of Bourbon. He expatiated upon his majesty's wisdom in taking
off from the French interest such a powerful prince as the elector of Bavaria, and concerting
other salutary measures for preserving the balance of power on the continent. He defended the
articles of the late treaty with Spain; observing, that what remained of the assiento contract
was a matter of very little consequence to the South-Sea company; that the demands of this
company, and other British merchants, were all cancelled by the rupture with Spain, and more
than recompensed to the nation by a great balance of captures during the war, as well as by
the great traffic carried on with the Spanish settlements in the West Indies, after it had
been laid open by the demolition of their fortresses. He asserted, that by this treaty the
court of Spain had made many important concessions; they had condescended to pay a great sum
to the South-Sea company; they had consented to the re-establishment of the British trade in
Spain, upon a very advantageous and solid footing, by agreeing that the subjects of Great Britain
should pay no other duties on merchandize than those exacted of his catholic majesty's own
subjects, and to abolish all innovations that had been introduced into the commerce. He affirmed,
that the article of No Search was a stipulation which it would have been ridiculous to insist
upon; and thought proper to obviate a reproach which he foresaw the opposition would throw
upon him, from the circumstance of his having, upon a former occasion, heartily concurred in
a motion for an address, that no treaty of peace with Spain should be admitted, unless such
a stipulation should be first obtained as a preliminary. He owned he had strenuously contended
for such a motion, because at that time, being very young and sanguine, he thought it right
and reasonable; but he was now ten years older, had considered matters more coolly, and was
convinced that the privilege of No Search, with respect to British vessels sailing near the
American shore, would never be obtained, unless Spain should be brought so low as to acquiesce
in any terms we as victors might propose. He likewise signified his conviction, that all addresses
from the house of commons, during the course of a war, for prescribing terms of peace, were
in themselves ridiculous; and that every such address was an encroachment on the king's prerogative,
which had always been attended with unlucky consequences. How far these arguments are satisfactory,
conclusive, and consistent, we shall leave to the reader's determination. Certain it is, they
were adopted by the majority, and the address was presented without further opposition.

The two grand committees appointed to discuss the supplies for the ensuing year, and the funds
upon which they were to be raised, proceeded, as usual, under the direction of the ministry;
yet not without some vehement opposition, in which certain servants of the crown expressed
the most hearty concurrence. When a motion was made for reducing the number of seamen to eight
thousand, Mr. W. Pitt, Mr. Lyttelton, and Mr. G. Grenville, opposed it with all their might
of argument and elocution; but they were overruled. Annual debates were also revived, with
the same success, upon the number of troops constituting the standing army; but the other resolutions
of the grand committees met with little or no opposition. The number of seamen for the ensuing
year was limited to eight thousand; and that of the standing forces continued at eighteen thousand
eight hundred and fifty-seven effective men, including one thousand eight hundred and fifteen
invalids. The commons granted a considerable sum of money for paying off the principal of such
redeemable stocks as had not been subscribed, in pursuance of two acts passed in the last session
for reducing the interest of annuities. Thirty thousand pounds were given for fulfilling the
king's engagement with the elector of Bavaria; large grants were made for supplying deficiencies,
and replacing sums borrowed from the sinking fund. The expense incurred by the new colony of
Nova Scotia, not provided for by parliament, exceeded fifty-seven thousand pounds; and the
maintenance of it for the ensuing year was fixed at fifty-three thousand nine hundred and twenty-seven
pounds, fourteen shillings and fourpence. An enormous charge! if we consider to how little
purpose all this bounty was bestowed. A fund was established under the sanction of parliament,
for the relief and maintenance of the widows of sea officers, by allowing, upon the books of
every ship of war in sea pay, the wages and victuals of one man for every hundred of which
the compliment shall consist, for such time only as the number of men employed in the service
of the royal navy shall not exceed twenty thousand. This was an additional indulgence, over
and above the allowance of one man granted by a former act of parliament. On the whole, the
provisions of this year amounted to five millions one hundred and twenty-five thousand and
twenty-three pounds, eleven shillings and sevenpence, to be raised by the usual duties; the
sum of one million twenty-six thousand four hundred and seventy-six pounds, four shillings
and sixpence, advanced by the bank of England to pay off their own unsubscribed annuities,
for which they accepted exchequer bills at three per cent, interest; by the land-tax at three
shillings in the pound; a lottery and annuities, at the rate of three per cent, per annum,
to be charged on the sinking-fund redeemable by parliament. The annual measure called the mutiny
bill, was not passed without dispute and altercation; some alterations were proposed, but not
adopted; and the sentences of court-martials still subjected to one revision.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DEATH AND CHARACTER OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.

In the midst of these deliberations, the kingdom was alarmed with an event which overwhelmed
the people with grief and consternation. His royal highness the prince of Wales, in consequence
of a cold caught in his garden at Kew, was seized with a pleuritic disorder; and, after a short
illness, expired on the twentieth day of March, to the unspeakable affliction of his royal
consort, and the unfeigned sorrow of all who wished well to their country. This excellent prince,
who now died in the forty-fifth year of his age, was possessed of every amiable quality which
could engage the affection of the people; a tender and obliging husband, a fond parent, a kind
master; liberal, generous, candid, and humane; a munificent patron of the arts, an unwearied
friend to merit; well disposed to assert the rights of mankind in general, and warmly attached
to the interest of Great Britain. The nation could not but be afflicted at seeing a prince
of such expectations ravished from their hopes; and their grief was the better founded, as
the king had already attained to an advanced age, and the heir-apparent, George, now prince
of Wales, was a minor.

SETTLEMENT OF A REGENCY IN CASE OF A MINOR SOVEREIGN.

His majesty, foreseeing all the inconveniencies which might arise from a minority, deliberated
with his council on this subject, and resolved to obtain a parliamentary sanction for the measures
judged necessary to secure the succession. With this view he sent a message to both houses
on the twenty-sixth day of April, importing, that nothing could conduce so much to the preservation
of the protestant succession in his royal family, as proper provisions for the tuition of the
person of his successor, and for the regular administration of the government, in case the
successor should be of tender years; his majesty therefore earnestly recommended this weighty
affair to the deliberation of parliament; and proposed, that when the imperial crown of these
realms should descend to any of the late prince's sons, being under the age of eighteen years,
his mother, the princess dowager of Wales, should be guardian of his person, and regent of
these kingdoms, until he should attain the age of majority, with such powers and limitations
as should appear necessary and expedient for these purposes. This message produced a very affectionate
address, promising to take the affair into their serious consideration; and in the beginning
of May the duke of Newcastle presented to the house of peers a bill to provide for the administration
of government, in case the crown should descend to a minor. The bill was read a second time,
and committed, when a second message arrived from his majesty, recommending to their consideration
the settlement of such a council of regency as the bill proposed, consisting of his royal highness
the duke of Cumberland, who at that time commanded the army, the archbishop of Canterbury,
the lord chancellor, the lord high treasurer, or first lord commissioner of the treasury, the
president of the council, the lord privy-seal, the lord high-admiral of Great Britain, or first
commissioner of the admiralty, the two principal secretaries of state, and the lord chief justice
of the king's-bench; all these great officers, except his royal highness the duke, for the
time being. This bill did not pass through the lower house without violent debate and bitter
sarcasms. The council of regency, though espoused by all the ministry, including the paymaster-general,
met with fierce opposition, as an unnecessary and fatal restriction that would impede the machine
of government, and, as the council was constituted, might be productive of the most pernicious
consequence. Some of the members ventured even to insinuate the danger of leaving at the head
of a large standing army, a prince of the blood vested with a share of the regency, possessed
of great personal influence, the darling of the soldiery, brave, popular, and enterprising;
supposed not devoid of ambition, and not at all remarkable for any symptoms of extraordinary
affection towards the person of the heir-apparent. The history of England was ransacked for
invidious instances of royal uncles and regents who had injured the sovereigns, and distressed
the government, by their pride, cruelty, and ambition. The characters of John Lackland, and
John of Gaunt, Humphrey and Richard dukes of Gloucester, were called in review, canvassed,
compared, and quoted, with some odious applications; but the majority being convinced of the
loyalty, virtue, integrity, and great abilities of his royal highness, to whom the nation owed
obligations of the most important nature, passed the bill with a few amendments, in which the
lords acquiesced; and in a little time it received the royal sanction.

GENERAL NATURALIZATION BILL.

The death of the prince of Wales was fatal to a bill which had been brought into the house
of commons, for naturalizing all foreign protestants who should settle within the dominions
of Great Britain. Political arithmeticians have generally taken it for granted, that to every
commercial nation an increase of people is an increase of opulence; and this maxim is certainly
true, on the supposition that every individual is industrious, and that there is a sufficient
field for employment; but all these general maxims ought to be received under certain qualifications.
When all branches of manufacture are overstocked, an addition of workmen will doubtless be
an additional incumbrance on the community. In the debates which this bill produced, the members
of the ministry were divided among themselves. The measure was enforced by the chancellor of
the exchequer, Mr. W. Pitt, and Mr. Lyttelton; and in opposing it the earl of Egmont was joined
by Mr. Fox, secretary at war. Petitions and counter-petitions were presented by the merchants
of London, Bristol, and other trading towns of the kingdom. All merchants and traders of foreign
extraction exerted themselves vigorously in its behalf, and it was without doubt countenanced
by the administration; but the project was odious to the people in general. The lord mayor,
aldermen, and commons of London, in common-council assembled, composed a remonstrance to the
lower house, setting forth the danger and inutility of a general naturalization of foreign
protestants. A petition of the merchants and principal inhabitants of Bristol represented that
such a law would be prejudicial to the trade and commerce of this kingdom, by preventing many
industrious artificers from procuring a sufficient support for themselves and their families,
and of consequence increasing the rates of the poor; that the introduction of such a number
of foreigners, instead of being a support to the present happy establishment, might endanger
the very basis of our constitution; that it would greatly tend to the diminution of our manufactures,
as many strangers would doubtless come and reside in England for a time, in order to learn
the methods and management of our manufacturers and artificers; and, after having obtained
this instruction, return to their native countries, where they would establish and carry on
works of the same nature. The twentieth day of March being appointed for the third reading
of the bill, it was postponed in consequence of the unfortunate death of the prince of Wales;
and other petitions from different cities of the kingdom being mustered against it in the sequel,
the ministry did not think proper to persist in any unpopular measure at such a delicate conjuncture;
so the bill was no more brought upon the carpet. Divers other regulations, relating to civil
policy as well as to the commerce of Great Britain, were propounded in the house of commons;
but these proposals proved abortive, either because they appeared crude and indigested in themselves,
or the house could not obtain proper information touching the allegations they contained.

CENSURE PASSED UPON A PAPER ENTITLED "CONSTITUTIONAL QUERIES."

There were no other transactions in this session, except the concurrence of both houses in
stigmatizing a printed paper, entitled "Constitutional Queries, earnestly recommended to the
serious consideration of every true Briton;" and the steps taken by the commons, in consequence
of the commotions occasioned by the Westminster election. The above-mentioned paper, which
had been conveyed by letter to the majority of both houses, was communicated to the lords in
the month of January by the duke of Marlborough, who moved for resolutions against it as a
seditious libel, and that the concurrence of the commons might be desired. A conference accordingly
ensued, and both houses concurred in voting the paper a false, malicious, scandalous, infamous,
and seditious libel; containing the most false, audacious, and abominable calumnies and indignities
upon his majesty; and the most presumptuous and wicked insinuations that our laws, liberties,
and properties, and the excellent constitution of this kingdom, were in danger under his majesty's
legal, mild, and gracious government; with intent to instil groundless suspicions and jealousies
into the minds of his majesty's good subjects, and to alienate their affections from his majesty
and the royal family. It was therefore resolved by the lords spiritual and temporal, and commons
in parliament assembled, that, in abhorrence and detestation of such abominable and seditious
practices, the paper should be burnt by the hands of the common hangman in the new Palace-yard
of Westminster; and this sentence was executed accordingly. Then they presented an address
to his majesty, desiring that the most effectual means might be taken for discovering the author,
printer, or publisher, that he or they might be brought to condign punishment. Directions were
given for this purpose; but without effect. Those concerned in writing, printing, and circulating
the paper, had acted with such caution that not one of them was ever discovered.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE COMMONS ON THE WESTMINSTER ELECTION.

The proceedings of the commons with respect to the election of a burgess for Westminster were
attended with some extraordinary circumstances, which we shall now record for the edification
of those who pique themselves on the privileges of a British subject. We have already observed,
that a majority appearing on the poll for lord Trentham, the adherents of the other candidate,
sir George Vandeput, demanded a scrutiny, which was granted by the high bailiff of Westminster,
the returning officer. During this tedious investigation, which rolled chiefly on the qualifications
of voters, he acted with such address and seeming candour as gave entire satisfaction to both
parties, till at length he determined in favour of lord Trentham, whom he returned as duly
elected. Those who styled themselves the independent electors did not acquiesce in this determination
without clamour, reproach, menaces, and riot. They taxed Mr. Leigh, the high-bailiff, with
partiality and injustice; they loudly affirmed that ministerial influence had been used in
the most scandalous manner; and, finally, joined sir George Vandeput in a petition to the lower
house, complaining of an undue election and return of a member for the city of Westminster.
The commons, instead of inquiring into the merits of these petitions, ordered them to lie upon
the table; and, without any complaint from any person whatever, a motion was made that Leigh,
the high-bailiff, should attend the house immediately, in order to make them acquainted with
what he had done in pursuance of the directions he had formerly received from that house, touching
the execution of the writ for electing a new member to represent the city of Westminster. As
this motion had been preconcerted, Leigh was attending in the lobby, and immediately called
into the house to be examined on this subject. Having, in the course of his examination, alleged
that the election had been protracted by affected delays, he was asked by whom, and by what
means; but, before he could answer, the earl of Egmont, interposing, objected to the question
as improper, and moved for the order of the day. A debate immediately ensued, in which the
impropriety of the question was demonstrated by Mr. Henley, now lord-keeper, Dr. Lee, and some
others, the most sensible and moderate members of the house; but they were opposed with great
violence by lord viscount Corke, Henry Fox, esquire, sir William Young, colonel Lyttelton,
and the weight of the ministry; so that the motion for the order of the day was carried in
the negative, and the high-bailiff required to answer the question. Thus interrogated, he declared
that he had been impeded in the scrutiny, and maltreated, by Mr. Crowle, who had acted as counsel
for sir George Vandeput, by the honourable Alexander Murray, brother to lord Elibank, and one
Gibson, an upholsterer, who had been very active, zealous, and turbulent in his endeavours
to promote the interest of sir George Vandeput, or rather to thwart the pretensions of the
other candidate, who was supposed to be countenanced by the ministry. These three persons,
thus accused, were brought to the bar of the house, notwithstanding the strenuous remonstrances
of several members, who opposed this method of proceeding, as a species of oppression equally
arbitrary and absurd. They observed, that, as no complaint had been preferred, they had no
right to take cognizance of the affair; that if any undue influence had been used, it would
naturally appear when the merits of the election should fall under their inquiry; that a complaint
having been lodged already against the returning officer, it was their duty to investigate
his conduct, and punish him if he should be found delinquent; but that nothing could be more
flagrantly unjust, and apparently partial, than their neglecting the petitions of the other
candidate and electors, and encouraging the high-bailiff, who stood charged with iniquity,
to recriminate upon his accusers, that they might be disabled from giving evidence on the inquiry
into the merits of the election. What difference is it to the subject whether he is oppressed
by an arbitrary prince, or by the despotic insolence of a ministerial majority? Mr. Crowle
alleged, in his own vindication, that he had been employed as counsel by the electors of Westminster,
and attended the scrutiny in that character; that after the high-bailiff had, in the course
of the last session, received the order of the house to expedite the election, he hurried on
the scrutiny with such precipitation as, he apprehended, was unjust and prejudicial to his
clients; that, in this apprehension, he (Mr. Crowle) insisted upon the high-bailiff's proceeding
with more deliberation, and in so doing he thought he did his duty to his employers. Some evidence
being examined against him, declared he had not only protracted the scrutiny, but also spoken
disrespectful words of the house of commons; he was therefore reprimanded on his knees by the
speaker, and discharged.

MR. MURRAY SENT PRISONER TO NEWGATE.

Mr Murray being charged with having uttered some threatening and affrontive expressions, the
house adjourned the consideration of this affair for some days, at the expiration of which
Mr. Murray was to be heard by his counsel; but, in the meantime, they ordered him to be taken
into custody by the sergeant-at-arms attending the house. This step however was not taken without
a warm opposition by some of the most sedate and intelligent members of the house, who considered
it as a cruel act of oppression. They observed, that in cases of breach of privilege, no person
complained of was ever taken into custody until after he had been fully heard in his defence;
that this was literally prejudging the cause before it had been examined; and the oppression
was the greater, as the alleged offence consisted entirely of words, of which no complaint
or information had been made for above eight months after the supposed offence had been committed;
and, even then, not till an accusation had been lodged against the informant, upon the trial
of which accusation the persons informed against might very probably be the most material witnesses.
They observed, that in one of the highest offences which can be committed by words, namely,
that of denying the king's right to the crown, or renouncing the trinity, the information must
be brought in three or four days after the words are spoken; the words must be proved to have
been spoken maliciously, directly, and advisedly, and the prosecution must commence in three
months after the information. These suggestions made no more impression than if they had been
uttered in a desert. Those who were secure in their number, asserted that the house of commons
was not restricted by the forms or proceedings at common law; and that it was necessary to
vindicate their own honour and dignity, by making examples of those who seemed to hold them
in contempt. Mr. Murray was committed to the custody of the sergeant-at-arms, and found bail;
and Gibson was sent prisoner to Newgate, from whence he was in a few days released, upon presenting
an humble petition, professing his sorrow for having incurred the displeasure of the house,
to the bar of which he was brought, and received a reprimand on his knees from the speaker.
In the meantime, divers witnesses being examined before the house, declared, That Mr. Murray
had been seen, about the time of the return of a member for Westminster, heading and exciting
a tumult to acts of violence against the high-bailiff. The majority, therefore, after a long
and warm debate, agreed, that for his dangerous and seditious practices, in violation and contempt
of the privileges of the house, and of the freedom of elections, he should be committed close
prisoner to Newgate Then, in the close of another violent debate, they resolved that he should
be brought to the bar of the house, to receive that sentence on his knees. He accordingly appeared,
and being directed by the speaker to kneel, refused to comply. He knew that he could not be
discharged from Newgate during the session, without petitioning, acknowledging his offence,
and making such concessions as he thought would imply a consciousness of guilt; he considered
this whole transaction as an oppressive exertion of arbitrary power, and, being apprized of
the extent of their authority, determined to bear the brunt of their indignation, rather than
make submissions which he deemed beneath the dignity of his character. When he refused to humble
himself, the whole house was in commotion; he was no sooner removed from the bar than they
resolved, that his having in a most insolent and audacious manner refused to be on his knees
at the bar of that house, in consequence of their former resolution, was a high and most dangerous
contempt of the authority and privilege of the commons; it was therefore ordered, that he should
be committed close prisoner to Newgate, debarred the use of pen, ink, and paper; and that no
person should have access to him without the leave of the house. Finally, a committee was appointed
to consider what methods might be proper to be taken by them, in relation to this instance
of contempt. Meanwhile, the petitioners against the return made by the high-bailiff, perceiving
the temper of the house, and the complexion of the majority, withdrew their petition; and the
order which had passed for hearing the merits of the election was discharged. Mr. Murray being
taken dangerously ill in Newgate, application was made to the commons, by some of his relations,
that he might be removed to a more convenient situation; and his physician being examined,
gave it as his opinion that he was infected with the gaol distemper. Upon this representation,
the house agreed that the speaker should issue a warrant for removing him from Newgate to the
custody of the sergeant-at-arms, but this favour he refused to accept, and expressed the warmest
resentment against those relations who had applied to the commons in his behalf. Thus he remained
sequestered even from his own brother and sister, under the displeasure of the commons of England,
who condescended so far as to make resolutions touching the physician, apothecary, and nurse
who attended this prisoner. But the prorogation of parliament having put an end to their authority
for that session, Mr. Murray was discharged of course, and conducted by the sheriffs from Newgate
to his own house, in procession, with flags and streamers exhibiting the emblems of liberty.

SESSION CLOSED. STYLE ALTERED.

In the month of June the session was closed with a speech from the throne, in which his majesty
thanked both houses for the zeal and affection they had manifested towards him and his government;
and congratulated the commons in particular, upon their firmness and prudence in reducing the
interest of the national debt, a measure as agreeable to him as essential to the strength and
welfare of the kingdom. [330] [See note 2 S, at the end of this Vol.]--The interior economy
of Great Britain produced, within the circle of this year, nothing else worthy of historical
regard, except a series of enormous crimes, arising from the profligacy of individuals, which
reflected disgrace upon the morals and the polity of the nation. Rapine and robbery had domineered
without intermission ever since the return of peace, which was attended with a reduction of
the army and navy; but now crimes of a deeper die seemed to lift up their heads, in contempt
of law and humanity. [331] [See note 2 T, at the end of this Vol.] Every day almost produced
fresh instances of perjury, forgery, fraud, and circumvention; and the kingdom exhibited a
most amazing jumble of virtue and vice, honour and infamy, compassion and obduracy, sentiment
and brutality.

CHAPTER VIII.

     Death of the Queen of Denmark and the Prince of Orange.....
     Misunderstanding between the Czarina and King of
     Prussia..... Measures for electing a King of the Romans.....
     Death of the King of Sweden..... Session opened.....
     Animosity of the Commons towards Mr. Murray..... Proceedings
     upon a Pamphlet, entitled the Case of Mr. Murray.....
     Supplies granted..... Civil Regulations..... Law relating to
     the forfeited Estates in Scotland..... New Consolidation of
     Funds..... Two Ports opened for the Importation of Irish
     Wool..... The King sets out for Hanover..... Affairs of the
     Continent..... Dispute between Hanover and Prussia,
     Concerning East Friezeland..... Misunderstanding between the
     Courts of London and Berlin..... Improvement of
     Pomerania..... Treaty with the Elector Palatine..... Session
     opened..... Supplies granted..... Game Act..... Act for
     performing Quarantine..... and for preventing the Plundering
     of shipwrecked Vessels..... Bill relating to the Bounty on
     Corn exported..... Turkey Trade laid open.....
     Naturalization of the Jews..... Marriage Act.....
     Deliberations concerning the Sugar Colonies...... Fate of
     the Register Bill..... Sir Hans Sloane's Museum purchased by
     Parliament..... Story of Elizabeth Canning..... Execution of
     Dr. Cameron..... Tumults in different Parts of the
     Kingdom..... Disturbances in France..... Proceedings in the
     Diet relative to East Friezeland..... Treaty between the
     Court of Vienna and the Duke of Marlborough--Conferences
     with respect to Nova Scotia broke up..... Description of
     Nova Scotia..... Disputes concerning its Limits

DEATH OF THE QUEEN OF DENMARK AND PRINCE OF ORANGE.

The royal family of England had sustained three severe shocks in the compass of a few months.
Besides the loss of the prince of Wales, which the nation lamented as irreparable, his majesty
was deeply afflicted by the untimely death of his youngest daughter, the queen of Denmark,
who died at Copenhagen on the nineteenth day of December, in the prime of youth. She was one
of the most amiable princesses of the age in which she lived, whether we consider the virtues
of her heart, or the accomplishments of her person; generous, mild, and tender hearted; beloved
even almost to adoration by her royal consort, to whom she had borne a prince and two princesses;
and universally admired and revered by the subjects of his Danish majesty. Her death had been
preceded about two months by that of her brother-in-law, the prince of Orange, no less regretted
by the natives of the United Provinces for his candour, integrity, and hereditary love to his
country. Though he had not distinguished himself by the lustre of a superior genius, he had
been at great pains to cultivate his understanding, and study the true interest of that community
of which he was a member. He had always approved himself a good and zealous citizen, and, since
his elevation to the stadtholdership, taken many salutary steps for the advantage of his country.
Among other excellent schemes which he suggested, he left a noble plan with the states-general
for restoring their commerce to its former lustre, and lived long enough to receive their warmest
acknowledgments fox this last proof of his prudence and patriotism. His son and daughter being
both infants, the administration of the government devolved upon the princess, as governanté
during her son's minority; and as such she succeeded to all the power which her husband had
enjoyed.

MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE CZARINA AND KING OF PRUSSIA.

With respect to the affairs of the continent, the peace of the north seemed still as precarious
as ever; for though the difference between Russia and Sweden had been compromised, the mutual
disgust between the czarina and the king of Prussia had gained such accession from reciprocal
insults, ill offices, and inflammatory declarations, that these two powers seemed to be on
the eve of a rupture, and each was employed in making extraordinary preparations for war. The
courts of Vienna and Great Britain, foreseeing that such a rupture would embroil the empire,
and raise insurmountable obstructions to their favourite scheme of electing the archduke Joseph
king of the Romans, resolved to employ all their influence in order to effect a reconciliation
between the courts of Petersburgh and Berlin. His Prussian majesty had signified to the king
of Great Britain and the states-general, the situation in which he stood with the czarina,
and solicited their interposition, that the difference might be amicably accommodated. At the
same time, he sent an envoy-extraordinary to Versailles, to negotiate with the French king
for a very considerable body of auxiliaries, in case he should fee attacked. These circumstances
induced the maritime powers, and the court of Vienna, to use their utmost endeavours for the
prevention of a rupture; and accordingly they made remonstrances on this subject by their ministers
at Petersburgh, proposing that the quarrel should be terminated without bloodshed, and all
cause of animosity be buried in oblivion.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

MEASURES FOR ELECTING A KING OF THE ROMANS.

In the meantime they eagerly prosecuted the design of the election; and the Imperial minister
at Berlin not only communicated to his Prussian majesty the sentiments of the king of England
on this expedient, but even solicited his vote for the archduke Joseph, when the election of
a king of the Romans should be proposed in the electoral college. To this proposal he replied,
that he was extremely well disposed to manifest his regard for their imperial majesties, and
to give the most genuine proofs of it, even in the proposed election of a king of the Romans,
considering the great merit of the present candidate the archduke Joseph; but he left it to
the consideration of their imperial majesties, whether the election would not be a little premature,
if transacted at a time when his imperial majesty was in the flower of his age; enjoying perfect
health; and when all Europe, particularly the empire, was hushed in the bosom of tranquillity,
so that no circumstance seemed to prognosticate the necessity of such an election; or of putting
in execution the motives mentioned in the capitulation of the reigning emperor's election;
especially as the examination of these motives belonged to the whole empire, and ought to precede
the election, by virtue of the eighth article of the treaty of Westphalia. He observed, that
in case of the emperor's death, Germany would find herself in a very disagreeable situation
under the government of a minor. For these reasons, he said, he could not help advising their
imperial majesties to wait until the archduke should be of age, when his election might be
carried on more conformably to the laws and constitutions of the empire, and more suitable
to the majesty of the whole Germanic body. This reply he circulated among the electors, and
in particular transmitted it to the king of Great Britain, desiring they would deliberate maturely
on this subject, and confer together in a body, as well as in private, that they might proceed
according to the ancient custom of the electoral college, and take such 'measures as should
be judged expedient for the honour and advantage of the community. This circular letter was
answered both by the king of England and the elector of Bavaria, who demonstrated, that it
was the privilege of the electoral college only, without any participation of the other princes
of the empire, to elect a king of the Romans during the life of the emperor, in order to maintain
the peace and preserve the liberties of Germany; and that the neglect of this wise precaution
hath produced bloody wars, and many fatal consequences to the empire. They observed, that nothing
could more contribute to the establishment of the public tranquillity than this measure, so
ardently desired by the majority of the German princes; and that, although the archduke Joseph
wanted a few years of being of age, and it might possibly happen that the reigning emperor
should die during that prince's minority, yet it would be much less prejudicial to the empire
to have a minor chief, than to see the succession altogether unsettled. His Prussian majesty
received a declaration to the same purpose from the elector of Mentz; and understanding that
this prince, as archchancellor of the empire, intended to convoke an electoral diet in order
to propose the election of a king of the Romans, he wrote an elaborate letter to his electoral
highness, explaining at more length his reasons for postponing the election. He quoted that
sentence of the treaty of Westphalia which expressly declares, that the election of a king
of the Romans shall be discussed and ordained by the common consent of the states of the empire;
and, therefore, he could not conceive what right the electoral college had to arrogate this
privilege to themselves, excluding the other states of the empire. He observed, that the imperial
capitulations, which were the only laws of the empire that treated of this subject, mentioned
only three cases in which it was lawful to proceed to such an election; namely, the emperor's
leaving, and long absence from, Germany; his advanced age, or an indisposition, rendering him
incapable of managing the reins of government; and any case of emergency in which the preservation
of the empire's prosperity is interested. He affirmed that none of these motives at present
existed; that, in case the imperial crown should devolve to a minor, many mischiefs and disorders
must ensue, as the constitutions of the empire have established no regulations nor regency
in that event; that an election of this nature, carried on under the power, influence, and
authority of the head of the empire, would strike at the fundamental privileges of the princes
and states; consequently, in time overturn the constitution of the empire, which, from being
an elective dignity, conferred by the free and independent suffrages of the electoral college
and states of Germany, under certain capitulations, obliging the prince thus chosen to govern
according to law, would become an hereditary succession, perpetuated in one family, which of
course must be aggrandized to the prejudice of its co-estates, and the ruin of the Germanic
liberties. In a word, all Germany in general, and Ratisbon in particular, was filled with writings
published on both sides: by the emperor and his adherents, to demonstrate that the election
of a king of the Romans, during the life of the emperor, had often happened, and at this present
time was necessary, and would be advantageous to the empire; while the king of Prussia and
his friends laboured to prove that such an election, at the present juncture, would be ill-timed,
irregular, and of dangerous consequence. Perhaps, if the truth was known, this enterprising
prince had projected some great scheme, with the execution of which this proposed establishment
would have interfered. Certain it is, he exerted himself with that spirit and perseverance
which were peculiar to his character, to frustrate the intention of the courts of Vienna and
London in this particular, and was assisted with all the intrigue of the French ministry. Their
joint endeavours were so effectual, that the elector of Cologn renounced his subsidiary treaty
with the maritime powers, and once more threw himself into the arms of France. The elector
palatine being solicited by the empress-queen and his Britannic majesty to co-operate with
their views, insisted, as a preliminary article, upon being indemnified by the court of Vienna
for the ravages committed in his territories by the Austrian troops, during the course of the
last war: the king of Poland, elector of Saxony, made the same demand of the like indemnification,
which was granted by the mediation of king George; and then he subscribed to a subsidiary treaty,
obliging himself to furnish a body of six thousand auxiliaries, in case they should be required
by the maritime powers; and to act as an elector, in concert with the house of Austria, in
every thing relating to the welfare of his country that should square with the fundamental
laws of the empire. The courts of London and Vienna had this election so much at heart, that
they sounded almost all the powers of Europe, to know how they stood affected towards the measure
proposed. The king of Spain declined intermeddling in a domestic affair of the empire. The
French king returned an ambiguous answer; from whence it was concluded that nothing but opposition
could be expected from that quarter. The Swedish monarch was rendered propitious to the project
by assurances that the house of Hesse-Cassel, of which he was the head, should be elevated
into an electorate. They even endeavoured to soften his Prussian majesty, by consenting, at
last, that the treaty of Dresden, confirming to him the possession of Silesia, should be guaranteed
by the diet of the empire; a sanction which he now actually obtained, together with the ratification
of his imperial majesty. Notwithstanding this indulgence, he still persisted in raising fresh
objections to the favourite project, on pretence of concerting measures for preventing the
inconveniencies that might result from a minority; for regulating the capitulations to be agreed
on with the king of the Romans; securing the freedom of future elections, and preserving the
prerogatives and privileges of the Germanic body in all its members. In consequence of these
obstacles, joined to the apostacy of the elector of Cologn, the obstinacy of the elector palatine,
and the approaching diet of Hungary, at which their imperial majesties were obliged personally
to preside, the measures for the election were suspended till next summer, when his Britannic
majesty was expected at Hanover to put the finishing stroke to this great event in favour of
the house of Austria.

DEATH OF THE KING OF SWEDEN.

Another disappointment, with respect to this election, the promoters of it sustained in the
death of his Swedish majesty, who expired in a good old age, and was succeeded by Adolphus
Frederick, duke of Holstein Eutin, bishop of Lubeck, upon whom the succession had been settled
for some years, by the unanimous concurrence of the states of the kingdom. This prince ascended
the throne of Sweden without the least disturbance; and, of his own accord, took an oath in
full senate, that he would never attempt to introduce a despotic authority; but maintain their
liberties with his blood, and govern his subjects in all respects according to the laws and
the form of government established in Sweden. This public act, which was communicated to all
the foreign ministers, and particularly to the envoy from Petersburgh, met with such a favourable
reception from the czarina, that she expressed her satisfaction in a public declaration; and
the good understanding between the two courts was perfectly restored.

SESSION OPENED.

When the parliament of England was opened in the month of November, the king, in his speech
from the throne, gave them to understand, that for the same purposes which suggested the treaty
with the elector of Bavaria, he had now, in conjunction with the states-general, concluded
another with the king of Poland, elector of Saxony. He told them that the unfortunate death
of the prince of Orange had made no alteration in the state of affairs in Holland; and that
he had received the strongest assurances from the states, of their firm resolution to maintain
the intimate union and friendship happily subsisting between his majesty and those ancient
and natural allies of his crown. The paragraphs of this speech were, as usual, echoed back
to the throne in addresses replete with expressions of loyalty, affection, and approbation.
Opposition was by this time almost extinguished; and the proceedings of both houses took place
with such unanimity as was hardly ever known before this period in a British parliament. The
commons, however, seem to have assembled with such sentiments as did no great honour to their
temper and magnanimity. In a few days after the session opened, lord viscount C----e, a young
nobleman, whose character entitled him to very little regard or influence among men of sense
and probity, made a motion, that Mr. Murray, who had been so severely executed in the last
session for refusing to humble himself on his knees before them, should be again committed
close prisoner to Newgate for the same offence. This proposal, which supposed a power that
the commons had never before exercised, was sharply disputed by the earl of Egmont, and others,
who had not resigned all sense of moderation; but the majority adopted the measure with great
eagerness, and the speaker was ordered to issue his warrant accordingly. Then the house resolved,
that the said Alexander Murray should receive the sentence, for his now being committed close
prisoner to his majesty's gaol of Newgate, at the bar of the house, upon his knees; and the
sergeant-at-arms was commanded to take him into custody for this purpose. Their indignation,
however, was eluded by the caution of the delinquent, who, having foreseen the effects of their
resentment, had prudently retired to another country. They determined, nevertheless, to proceed
against him as a person of some consequence in the commonwealth; for, being informed of his
retreat, they condescended so far as to present an address to his majesty, desiring that his
royal proclamation might be issued for apprehending the said Mr. Murray, promising a reward
to him who should have the good fortune to apprehend this fugitive-a request with which his
majesty most graciously complied.

PROCEEDINGS UPON A PAMPHLET, ENTITLED "THE CASE OF MR. MURRAY."

Nor was this the only address presented to the king: upon such an important subject. A pamphlet,
entitled "The Case of the Hon. Alexander Murray, esquire, in an Appeal to the People of Great
Britain," was first stigmatized in a complaint to the house, and was afterwards produced and
read at the table. The piece was written with great acrimony, and abounded with severe animadversions,
not only upon the conduct of the returning officer, but also on the proceedings of the commons.
The violent members immediately took fire, and the flame extended itself to the majority. Nay,
the house unanimously resolved, that the pamphlet was an impudent, malicious, scandalous, and
seditious libel, falsely and most injuriously reflecting upon, and aspersing the proceedings
of the house, tending to create misapprehensions in the minds of the people, to the great dishonour
of the said house, and in violation of the privileges thereof. They furthermore presented an
address to the king, desiring his majesty would be graciously pleased to give directions to
his attorney-general to prosecute the authors or author, the printers or printer, and the publishers
or publisher of the said scandalous libel, that they might be brought to condign punishment.
Directions were accordingly given for this purpose, and a prosecution commenced against the
publisher, who had some reason to be dismayed, considering the great weight of influence he
was doomed to encounter--influence arising from a prosecution of the crown, instituted at the
request, and founded on a vote, of the house of commons. Nevertheless, when the cause was heard
before the lord-chief justice of England, a jury of free-born Englishmen, citizens of London,
asserted their privilege of judging the law as well as the fact, and acquitted the defendant
with a truly admirable spirit of independency. They considered the pamphlet as an appeal against
oppression; and, convinced that the contents were true, they could not in conscience adjudge
it a false libel, even though it had been so declared by one of the branches of the legislature.

{1752}

The commons, in regulating the supplies of the ensuing year, voted the continuation of eighteen
thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven men for the land-service, though not without some opposition
from certain patriots, who, rather from a sense of duty than from any hope of influencing the
majority, affirmed that sixteen thousand men in time of peace would answer all the ends proposed
by a standing army. The number of seamen was fixed at ten thousand; large sums were granted
to make up deficiencies, and fulfil the engagements of the crown with the electors of Bavaria
and Saxony, as well as for the maintenance of Nova Scotia and Georgia, and the castles on the
coast of Guinea; and one hundred and twelve thousand one hundred and fifty-two pounds, three
shillings and threepence, were voted, as a full compensation to the old royal African company
for their exclusive charter and property, to be applied for the relief of their creditors. *

     * These expenses were defrayed by a continuation of the
     duties on malt, &c; a land-tax at three shillings in the
     pound; a duty on licences, to be yearly paid by pawnbrokers
     and dealers in secondhand goods, within the bills of
     mortality; the sum of one million four hundred thousand
     pounds advanced by the bank, according to a proposal made
     for that purpose; five hundred thousand pounds to be issued
     from the sinking-fund; a duty laid on gum Senegal; and the
     continuation of divers other occasional impositions. The
     grants for the year amounted to something less than four
     millions, and the provisions made for this expense exceeded
     it in the sum of two hundred and seventy-one thousand and
     twenty-four pounds, ten shillings and sixpence halfpenny.

The laws enacted for the encouragement of traffic, and the regulations of civil polity, consisted
in an act for licensing pawnbrokers, and for the more effectual preventing the receiving of
stolen goods; another for preventing thefts and robberies, by which places of entertainment,
dancing, and music, in London, Westminster, and within twenty miles of the capital, were suppressed
and prohibited, unless the proprietors of them could obtain licenses from the justices of the
peace, empowered for that purpose; a third for annexing the forfeited estates in Scotland unalienably
to the crown, after having made satisfaction to the lawful creditors; establishing a method
of leasing these estates, and applying the rents and profits of them for the better civilizing
and improving the highlands, and preventing future disorders in that part of the united kingdom.
Nothing could be more salutary than the purposes of these regulations. The suburbs of the metropolis
abounded with an incredible number of public houses, which continually resounded with the noise
of riot and intemperance; they were the haunts of idleness, fraud, and rapine; and the seminaries
of drunkenness, debauchery, extravagance, and every vice incident to human nature; yet the
suppression of these receptacles of infamy was attended with an inconvenience, which, in some
cases, arose even to a degree of oppression. The justices being vested by the legislature with
the power of granting or refusing licenses, were constituted, in effect, the arbiters on whose
decision the fortunes and livelihood of many individuals absolutely depended. Many of those
who exercised this species of magistracy within the bills of mortality, were, to the reproach
of government, men of profligate lives, needy, mean, ignorant, and rapacious, and often acted
from the most scandalous principles of selfish avarice.

LAW RELATING TO THE FORFEITED ESTATES IN SCOTLAND.

The law relating to the highlands of Scotland was well calculated for promoting, among the
inhabitants of that country, such a spirit of industry as might detach them from their dangerous
connexions, and gradually supersede that military genius which had been so productive of danger
and alarm to the southern part of Great Britain. The king, by this act, was empowered to appoint
commissioners for managing the forfeited estates, who were enabled to grant leases of small
farms, not above twenty pounds a-year, to individuals, who should take an oath to government
to reside upon and cultivate the lands thus let. It was also provided, that no lease should
be granted for a longer term than twenty-one years; and that the leases should not pay above
three-fourths of the annual value. Although these forfeited estates were generally encumbered
with claims beyond their real value, and the act directed that they should be disposed of by
public sale; yet, as they lay in the most disaffected parts of the highlands, it was thought
necessary that they should remain in the possession of the crown, because, in case of their
being publicly sold, they might be purchased in trust for the families of the persons by whom
they were forfeited, and thus the spirit of disaffection would still survive. A valuation,
therefore, was made by the court of session in Scotland, at the joint suit of the crown and
the creditors; and the value being ascertained, the just claimants were paid out of the next
aids granted by parliament. The bill met with considerable opposition in the house of peers
from the duke of Bedford and the earl of Bath, who probably foresaw that the good effects of
this scheme, so laudable in itself, would be frustrated in the execution; and that the act,
instead of answering the purposes for which it was intended, would serve only as a job to gratify
the rapacious retainers to the government, and their emissaries in that country. After a warm
debate, however, it was adopted by a great majority, and obtained the royal assent.

NEW CONSOLIDATION OF FUNDS.

A third law related to certain articles of the national debt, which was now converted into
several joint-stocks of annuities, transferable at the bank of England, to be charged on the
sinking fund. A great number of different funds for annuities, established at different times
and by different acts, subsisted at this period, SO that it I was necessary to keep many different
accounts, which could not be regulated without considerable trouble and expense, for the removal
of which the bill was calculated.

TWO PORTS OPENED FOR THE IMPORTATION OF IRISH WOOL.

In consequence of petitions from the woollen manufacturers of Westmoreland and Yorkshire, two
bills were brought in, and passed through both houses, by which the ports of Lancaster and
Great Yarmouth were opened for the importation of wool and woollen yarn from Ireland; but why
this privilege was not extended to all the frequented ports of the kingdom it is not easy to
conceive, without supposing a little national jealousy on one hand, and a great deal of grievous
restraint on the other. Over and above these new laws, some unsuccessful endeavours were used
in behalf of commerce and police. A bill was offered for laying further restrictions on pawnbrokers
and brokers, that they might no longer suck the blood of the poor, and act as the accessaries
of theft and robbery, which was canvassed, debated, and made its way through the lower house;
but the lords rejected it as a crude scheme, which they could not amend, because it was a money-bill,
not cognizable by their house, without engaging in a dispute with the commons. Another bill
was prepared, for giving power to change the punishment of felony, in certain cases, to confinement
and hard labour in dockyards or garrisons. It was the opinion of many who wished well to their
country, and were properly qualified to prosecute such inquiries, that the practice of consigning
such a number of wretches to the hands of the executioner, served only, by its frequency, to
defeat the purpose of the law, in robbing death of all its terror, and the public of many subjects,
who might, notwithstanding their delinquency, be in some measure rendered useful to society.
Such was the motive that influenced the promoters of this bill; by which it was proposed, in
imitation of that economy practised in other countries, to confine felons convicted under certain
circumstances to hard labour upon the public works of the kingdom. The scheme was adopted by
the lower house, but rejected by the lords, who seemed apprehensive of its bringing such discredit
upon his majesty's dock-yards, as would discourage persons who valued their reputation from
engaging in such employment. Of still greater importance to the nation was the next measure
proposed, in a bill for making the militia of England more useful, presented by Mr. Thornton,
a gentleman of Yorkshire, who had distinguished himself by his loyalty and patriotism. It was
canvassed in a committee of the whole house, and underwent divers amendments; but miscarried,
through the aversion of the ministry to any project tending to remove or lessen the necessity
of maintaining a standing army. A considerable number of petitions for different regulations,
in respect to commerce and convenience of traffic, were presented, considered, and left upon
the table. A remonstrance from the prisoners confined in the gaol of the king's-bench, complaining
of their miserable situation, arising from want of room and other conveniences, being taken
into consideration by a committee, among other evidences, they examined that remarkable personage
who had signalized himself in different parts of Christendom, under the name of Theodore, king
of Corsica. Though formerly countenanced and even treated as a sovereign prince by the British
ministry, he was now reduced to the forlorn condition of a confined debtor; and, to the reproach
of this kingdom, died in prison, surrounded with all the misery of indigence, and overwhelmed
with the infirmities of old age. But the most remarkable circumstance of the parliamentary
transactions that distinguished this session, was a motion made in both houses for an address
to the king, beseeching his majesty, that in time of public tranquillity, he would be graciously
pleased to avoid entering into subsidiary treaties with foreign princes, which are so burdensome
to this nation. This extraordinary proposal was made and strenuously urged by the duke of B----,
and a vehement debate ensued, in which the earls of G----, S----, and H----, opposed it with
an execution of superior abilities; and the question being put, was carried in the negative
without a division. The same fate attended it in the house of commons, where it was introduced
by lord H----y, and supported by some distinguished orators. The session ended in the latter
end of March, when his majesty, having given his assent to ninety-five public and private bills,
harangued both houses, and prorogued the parliament.*

     * Among the proceedings of this session, it may not be
     improper to mention a new act for the prevention of murders,
     which had been shockingly frequent of late, importing, that
     every criminal convicted of this horrid crime should be
     executed in one day after his sentence, and his body
     delivered to the surgeons for dissection--an expedient which
     had been found productive of very salutary consequences.

THE KING SETS OUT FOR HANOVER.

Immediately after the prorogation, the king appointed a regency and set out for Hanover, in
order to complete the great scheme he had projected for electing a king of the Romans. Great
Britain, in the meantime, produced no event of importance, or any transaction that deserves
historical mention, except the ratification of two treaties of peace and commerce with the
states of Tripoli and Tunis on the coast of Barbary, concluded by the British consuls in those
cities, under the influence and auspices of an English squadron, commanded by commodore Keppel,
son to the earl of Albemarle. The tide of luxury still flowed with an impetuous current, bearing
down all the mounds of temperance and decorum; while fraud and profligacy struck out new channels,
through which they eluded the restrictions of the law, and all the vigilance of civil policy.
New arts of deception were invented, in order to ensnare and ruin the unwary; and some infamous
practices in the way of commerce, were countenanced by persons of rank and importance in the
commonwealth. A certain member of parliament was obliged to withdraw himself from his country,
in consequence of a discovery, by which it appeared that he had contrived and executed schemes
for destroying his own ships at sea, with a view to defraud the insurers.

In the course of this year the affairs of the continent did not undergo any material alteration.
In France, the religious dispute concerning the doctrine of Jansen-ius still subsisted between
the clergy and the parliament; and seemed to acquire additional fuel from the violence of the
archbishop of Paris, a haughty turbulent prelate, whose pride and bigotry were sufficient to
embroil one half of Christendom. The northern powers enjoyed a perfect tranquillity; the states-general
of the United Provinces were engrossed by plans of national economy. Spain was intent upon
extending her commerce, bringing her manufactures to perfection, and repressing the insolence
of the Barbary corsairs. His Portuguese majesty endeavoured, by certain peremptory precautions,
to check the exportation of gold coin from his dominions, and insisted upon inspecting the
books of the British merchants settled at Lisbon; but they refused to comply with this demand,
which was contrary to a treaty subsisting between the two crowns; and he thought proper to
acquiesce in their refusal. He was much better employed in obtaining from the pope an abolition
of the annual procession called the Auto-da-fe, one of the most horrid triumphs of spiritual
tyranny. The peace of Italy was secured by a defensive treaty concluded at Madrid between the
emperor, his catholic majesty, the king of the two Sicilies, and the duke of Parma; to which
treaty the king of Sardinia afterwards acceded.

DISPUTE BETWEEN HANOVER AND PRUSSIA.

With respect to the great scheme of electing the archduke Joseph king of the Romans, fresh
objections seemed to rise from different quarters. The good understanding between the courts
of Berlin and Hanover re-received an additional shock, from a dispute concerning the property
of East Friezeland, which his Prussian majesty had secured, as heir to the last possessor.
His Britannic majesty, as elector of Hanover, having pretensions to the same inheritance, his
minister delivered a memorial to the diet of the empire assembled at Ratisbon, demanding that
the king of Prussia, as elector of Brandenburgh, should be referred to the decision of the
Aulic council, in regard to his claim to the estates of East Friezeland; but the king being
already in possession, refused to submit his right to the determination of that or any other
tribunal; and when the diet presumed to deliberate on this affair, his envoy entered a strong
protest against their proceedings. At the same time, he presented the other ministers with
a memorial, tending to refute the elector of Hanover's pretensions to the principality in question.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE COURTS OF LONDON AND BERLIN.

At this juncture his Prussian majesty made no scruple of expressing his resentment against
the court of London, which he seemed to consider as an officious cabal, that had no right to
intermeddle in the affairs of Germany. His resident at London complained to the British ministry,
that divers ships, sailing under the Prussian flag, had been stopped at sea, and even seized
by English cruisers, and that his subjects had been ill treated and oppressed; he therefore
demanded reparation in a peremptory tone; and in the meantime discontinued the payment of the
Silesia loan, which he had charged himself with by an article in the treaty of Breslau. This
was a sum of money amounting to two hundred and fifty thousand pounds, which the emperor Charles
VI., father of the reigning empress, had borrowed of the subjects of Great Britain, on condition
of paying an interest of six per cent., and mortgaging the silver mines of Silesia for the
repayment of the principal. These devolved to the king of Prussia with this incumbrance, and
he continued to pay the interest punctually till this juncture, when the payment was stopped;
and he published a paper, entitled, "An Exposition of the Motives which influenced his Conduct
on this occasion." In his memorial to the ministry of Great Britain, he alleged, that eighteen
Prussian ships, and thirty-three neutral vessels, in which the subjects of Prussia were concerned,
had been unjustly seized by English privateers; his account of damages amounted to a very considerable
sum; and he demanded, in the most dogmatic terms, that the affair should be finally discussed
in the term of three months from the date of his remonstrance. The exposition and memorial
were subjected to the examination of the ablest civilians in England, who refuted every article
of the charge with equal precision and perspicuity. They proved, that captures by sea fell
properly under the cognizance of those powers under whose jurisdiction the seizures were made;
and therefore his Prussian majesty could not, consistent with the law of nations, determine
these disputes in his own tribunals. They demonstrated, by undoubted evidence, the falsity
of ma-ny facts alleged in the memorial, as well as the fairness of the proceedings by which
some few of the Prussian vessels had been condemned; and made it appear, that no insult or
injury had been offered to the subjects of Prussia. Finally, they observed, that the Silesia
loan was a private transaction of such a nature, that, even if a war had happened between the
emperor Charles VI. and his Britannic majesty, this must have been held sacred and inviolable;
that when the empress-queen ceded Silesia to the king of Prussia, this monarch charged himself
with the repayment of the loan, which, being a private debt, and transferable, was now diffused
into different countries, and become the property of many others besides the subjects of Great
Britain. They wound up their chain of reasoning by observing, that, according to agreement
with the emperor, the whole of this loan should have been repaid in the year one thousand seven
hundred and forty-five; whereas the complaints specified in the Prussian memorial were founded
on facts posterior to that period. Whether his Prussian majesty was convinced by these reasons,
and desisted from principle, or thought proper to give up his claim upon other political considerations;
certain it is, he no longer insisted upon satisfaction, but ordered the payment of the Silesia
loan to be continued without further interruption. A report, indeed, was circulated, that advantage
had been taken of the demur by a certain prince, who employed his agents to buy up a great
part of the loan at a considerable discount.

IMPROVEMENT OF POMERANIA.

How much soever the king of Prussia may be the subject of censure on this occasion, it must
be allowed that, with regard to his own subjects, he acted as a wise legislator, and the father
of his country. He peopled the deserts of Pomerania, by encouraging, with royal bounties, a
great number of industrious emigrants to settle in that province; the face of which in a very
few years underwent the most agreeable alteration. Above sixty new villages arose amidst a
barren waste, and every part of the country exhibited marks of successful cultivation. Those
solitary and desolate plains, where no human footsteps had for many ages been seen, were now
converted into fields of corn. The farms were regularly parcelled out; the houses multiplied,
and teemed with population; the happy peasants, sheltered in a peculiar manner under their
king's protection, sowed their grounds in peace, and reaped their harvests in security. The
same care and indulgence were extended to the unpeopled parts of other provinces within the
Prussian dominions, and extraordinary encouragement was granted to all French protestants who
should come and settle under the government of this political sage.

TREATY WITH THE ELECTOR PALATINE.

The courts of Vienna and Hanover still employed their chief attention upon the scheme of electing
a king of the Romans; and the elector of Mentz, influenced by the majority of the college,
had convoked an electoral diet for that purpose; but strong protests against this convocation
were entered by the electors of Cologn and Palatine, insomuch that it was thought expedient
to conciliate this last, by taking some steps in his favour, with respect to the satisfaction
he demanded from the empress-queen and his Britannic majesty. His claim upon the court of Vienna
amounted to three millions of florins, by way of indemnification for the losses he had sustained
during the war. He demanded of the king of England twenty thousand pounds sterling, for provisions
and forage furnished to the British troops while they acted on the Maine; and the like sum
for the like purposes from the states-general of the United Provinces. The empress-queen could
not help remonstrating against this demand as exorbitant in itself, and the more unreasonable,
as the elector palatine, at the death of her father, had openly declared against the pragmatic
sanction, which he had guaranteed in the most solemn manner; she therefore observed, that the
damage he had sustained in consequence of that declaration, ought to be considered as the common
fate of war. These reasons, though conclusive and irrefragable in the usual way of arguing,
made no impression upon the palatine, who perfectly well understood his own importance, and
was determined to seize this opportunity of turning it to the best advantage. The court of
Vienna, and the maritime powers, finding him thus obstinately attached to his own interest,
resolved to bring him over to their views at any rate, and commenced a negotiation with him,
which produced a formal treaty. By this convention his demands in money were fixed at twelve
hundred thousand Dutch florins, to be paid at three instalments: five hundred thousand by the
empress-queen, and the remaining seven hundred thousand by the king of Great Britain and the
states-general, according to the proportion established in former treaties. The privilege of
Non appellendo for the duchy of Deux-ponts was confirmed to his electoral highness, together
with some other rights and pretensions, in consideration of his concurring with the other electors
in the choice of a king of the Romans, to be elected according to the customs prescribed by
the laws and constitutions of the empire. He likewise engaged to join them in settling the
articles of the capitulation with the king of the Romans, emperor in futuro. Yet, even after
the concurrence of this prince was secured, the purposed election proved abortive, from the
strong objections that were started, and the strenuous opposition which was made by his Prussian
majesty, who perhaps aspired in secret at the imperial dignity, which the empress-queen took
all this pains to perpetuate in her own family.

{1753}

SESSION OPENED.

The king of Great Britain returning from the continent, opened the session of parliament on
the eleventh day of January, with a speech, implying that all his views and negotiations had
been calculated and directed to preserve and secure the duration of the general peace, so agreeable
and necessary to the welfare of all Europe; that he had the satisfaction to be assured of a
good disposition in all the powers that were his allies, to adhere to the same salutary object.
He exhorted them to continue their attention to the reduction of the national debt, the augmentation
of the sinking fund, and the improvement of the public revenue. He recommended to their serious
consideration what further laws and regulations might be necessary for suppressing those crimes
and disorders, of which the public had so justly complained; and concluded with an assurance,
that his hearty concurrence and endeavours should never be wanting in any measure that might
promote their welfare and prosperity. The addresses in answer to this speech were couched in
the usual form of implicit approbation; but that of the commons did not pass without question.
The earl of Egmont took exceptions to one paragraph, in which they acknowledged his majesty's
wisdom, as well as goodness, in pursuing such measures as must contribute to maintain and render
permanent the general tranquillity of Europe; and declared their satisfaction at the assurances
his majesty had received from his allies, that they were all attached to the same salutary
object. His lordship expatiated on the absurdity of these compliments at such a juncture, when
the peace of Europe was so precarious, and the English nation had so much cause of complaint
and dissatisfaction. He was seconded by some other individuals, who declaimed with great vivacity
against continental connexions; and endeavoured to expose the weakness and folly of the whole
system of foreign measures which our ministry had lately pursued. It must be owned, indeed,
that they might have chosen a better opportunity to compliment their sovereign on the permanency
of the peace than at this juncture, when they must have seen themselves on the very brink of
a new rupture with the most formidable power in Europe. But the truth is, these addresses to
the throne had been long considered as compliments of course, implying no more than a respectful
attachment to their sovereign; accordingly, both houses agreed to their respective addresses
without division. The two grand committees of supply and of ways and means, being established,
the business of the house was transacted without much altercation; and the people had great
reason to be satisfied with their moderate proceedings. Ten thousand seamen, and the usual
number of land forces, were retained for the service of the ensuing year. They provided for
the maintenance of the new colony of Nova Scotia, the civil establishment of Georgia, the support
of the castles on the coast of Guinea, and the erection of a new fort at Anarnabo, where the
French had attempted to make a settlement; and they enabled his majesty to fulfil his engagements
with the king of Poland and the elector of Bavaria.

The supplies, including grants for former deficiencies and services for which no provision
had been made in the course of the last year, did not exceed two millions one hundred and thirty-two
thousand seven hundred and seven pounds, seventeen shillings and twopence halfpenny. In order
to defray which expense, they assigned the duty on malt, &c, the land-tax at two shillings
in the pound, the surplus of certain funds in the exchequer, and the sum of four hundred and
twenty thousand pounds out of the sinking fund; so that the exceedings amounted to near three
hundred thousand pounds.*

     * Several duties on salt, as well as on red and white
     herrings delivered out for home consumption, were rendered
     perpetual, though subject to be redeemed by parliament; and
     it was provided that the debt contracted upon these duties
     being discharged, all the after-produce of them should
     become part of the sinking fund.

As for the national debt, it now stood at the enormous sum of seventy-four millions three hundred
and sixty-eight thousand four hundred and fifty-one pounds, fifteen shillings and one penny;
and the sinking fund produced one million seven hundred and thirty-five thousand five hundred
and twenty-nine pounds, six shillings and tenpence one farthing.

GAME ACT.

One of the first measures brought upon the carpet in the course of this session, was an act
containing regulations for the better preservation of the game, of which so great havoc had
been made by poachers, and other persons unqualified to enjoy that diversion, that the total
extirpation of it was apprehended.

ACT FOR PERFORMING QUARANTINE.

The next step taken by the commons was an affair of much greater consequence to the community,
being a bill for obliging ships the more effectually to perform quarantine, in order to prevent
the plague from being imported from foreign countries into Great Britain. For this purpose
it was ordained, that if this dreadful visitation should appear in any ship to the northward
of cape Finisterre, the master or commander should immediately proceed to the harbour of New
Grimsby, in one of the islands of Scilly, and there communicate the discovery to some officer
of the customs; who should, with the first opportunity, transmit this intelligence to another
custom-house officer in the nearest port of England, to be by him forwarded to one of his majesty's
principal secretaries of state. In the meantime the ship should remain at the said island,
and not an individual presume to go ashore until his majesty's pleasure should be known. It
was also provided, that in case the master of a ship thus infected should not be able to make
the islands of Scilly, or be forced up either channel by violent winds, he should not enter
any frequented harbour; but remain in some open road, until he could receive orders from his
majesty, or the privy council; that, during this interval, he should avoid all intercourse
with the shore, or any person or vessel whatsoever, on pain of being deemed guilty of felony,
and suffering death without benefit of clergy.

ACT FOR PREVENTING THE PLUNDERING OF SHIPWRECKED VESSELS.

In order the more effectually to repress the barbarous practice of plundering ships which have
the misfortune to suffer shipwreck--a practice which prevailed upon many different parts of
the British coast--to the disgrace of the nation, and the scandal of human nature; a bill was
prepared, containing clauses to enforce the laws against such savage delinquents, who prowl
along the shore like hungry wolves, in hope of preying upon their fellow-creatures; and certain
provisions for the relief of the unhappy sufferers.*

     * By the new law, the clerk of the peace in the county where
     the crime shall be committed, is obliged, upon receiving
     proper information, to prosecute the offenders at the
     expense of the county. It was likewise proposed, that in
     case no prosecution of this nature should be commenced
     within a certain limited time after the information should
     have been legally given, in that case the county might be
     sued by the person who had sustained the damage, and obliged
     to indemnify him for his loss; but this clause was rejected
     by the majority; and the bill having made its way through
     both houses, received the royal assent.

When the mutiny bill fell under deliberation, the earl of Egmont proposed a new clause for
empowering and requiring regimental courts-martial to examine witnesses upon oath in all their
trials. The proposal occasioned a debate, in which the ministry were pretty equally divided;
but the clause was disapproved by the majority, and this annual bill was enacted into a law
without any alteration.

BILL RELATING TO THE BOUNTY OF CORN EXPORTED.

The next bill was framed in consequence of dirers petitions presented by the exporters of corn,
who complained that the bounties were not paid, and prayed that the house would make proper
provision for that purpose. A bill was accordingly brought in, importing, that interest after
the rate of three per cent, should be allowed upon every debenture, for the bounty on the exportation
of com, payable by the receiver-general or cashier of the customs, until the principal could
be discharged out of such customs or duties as are appropriated for the payment of this bounty.
This premium on the exportation of corn ought not to be granted, except when the lowness of
the market price in Great Britain proves that there is a superabundance in the kingdom; otherwise
the exporter will find his account in depriving our own labourers of their bread, in order
to supply our rivals at an easier rate; for example, suppose wheat in England should sell for
twenty shillings a quarter, the merchant might export into France, and afford it to the people
of that kingdom for eighteen shillings, because the bounty on exportation would, even at that
rate, afford him a considerable advantage.

TURKEY TRADE LAID OPEN.

A great number of merchants having presented petitions from different parts of the kingdom,
representing that the trade of Turkey was greatly decreased, ascribing this diminution to the
exclusive charter enjoyed by a monopoly, and praying that the trade might be laid open to all
his majesty's subjects, one of the members for Liverpool moved for leave to bring in a bill
for this purpose. Such a measure had been twice before proposed without success; but now it
was adopted without opposition. A bill was immediately introduced; and, notwithstanding all
the interest and efforts of the Turkey company, who petitioned the house against it, and were
heard by their counsel, it passed through both houses, and received the royal sanction. By
this regulation any British subject may obtain the freedom of the Turkey company, by paying
or rendering a fine of twenty pounds; and all the members are secured from the tyranny of oppressive
bye-laws, contrived by any monopolizing cabal.*

     * Several other bills were passed; one for regulating the
     number of public houses, and the more easy conviction of
     persons selling ale and strong liquors without license--an
     act which empowered the justices of peace to tyrannize over
     their fellow-subjects: a second, enabling the magistrates of
     Edinburgh to improve, enlarge, and adorn the avenues and
     streets of that city, according to a concerted plan, to be
     executed by voluntary subscription: a third, allowing the
     exportation of wool and woollen yarn from Ireland into any
     port in Great Britain: and a fourth, prescribing the breadth
     of the wheels belonging to heavy carriages, that the high
     roads of the kingdom might be the better preserved.

NATURALIZATION OF THE JEWS.

But this session was chiefly distinguished by an act for naturalizing Jews, and a bill for
the better preventing clandestine marriages. The first of these, which passed without much
opposition in the house of lords, from whence it descended to the commons, was entitled, "An
act to permit persons professing the Jewish religion to be naturalized by parliament, and for
other purposes therein mentioned." It was supported by some petitions of merchants and manufacturers,
who, upon examination, appeared to be Jews, or their dependents; and countenanced by the ministry,
who thought they foresaw, in the consequences of such a naturalization, a great accession to
the monied interest, and a considerable increase of their own influence among the individuals
of that community. They boldly affirmed, that such a law would greatly conduce to the advantage
of the nation; that it would encourage persons of wealth to remove with their effects from
foreign parts into Great Britain, increase the commerce and the credit of the kingdom, and
set a laudable example of industry, temperance, and frugality. Another petition to the same
purpose was next day presented to the house, subscribed by merchants and traders of the city
of London; who, among other allegations, observed, that the consequences of such a naturalization
would greatly affect their trade and commerce with foreign nations, particularly with Spain
and Portugal. Counsel was heard, evidence examined, and the bill produced violent debates,
in which there seemed to be more passion than patriotism, more declamation than argument. The
adversaries of the bill affirmed, that such a naturalization would deluge the kingdom with
brokers, usurers, and beggars; that the rich Jews, under the shadow of this indulgence, would
purchase lands, and even advowsons; so as not only to acquire an interest in the legislature,
but also to influence the constitution of the church of Christ, to which they were the inveterate
and professed enemies; that the lower class of that nation, when thus admitted to the right
of denizens, would interfere with the industrious natives who earn their livelihood by their
labour; and by dint of the most parsimonious frugality, to which the English are strangers,
work at an under price; so as not only to share, but even in a manner to exclude them from
all employment; that such an adoption of vagrant Jews into the community, from all parts of
the world, would rob the real subjects of their birthright, disgrace the character of the nation,
expose themselves to the most dishonourable participation and intrusion, endanger the constitution
both in church and state, and be an indelible reproach upon the established religion of the
country. Some of these orators seemed transported even to a degree of enthusiasm. They prognosticated
that the Jews would multiply so much in number, engross such wealth, and acquire so great power
and influence in Great Britain, that their persons would be revered, their customs imitated,
and Judaism become the fashionable religion of the English. Finally, they affirmed that such
an act was directly flying in the face of the prophecy, which declares, that the Jews shall
be a scattered people, without country or fixed habitation, until they shall be converted from
their infidelity, and gathered together in the land of their forefathers. These arguments and
apprehensions, which were in reality frivolous and chimerical, being industriously circulated
among the vulgar, naturally prejudiced against the Jewish people, excited such a ferment throughout
the nation, as ought to have deterred the ministry from the prosecution of such an unpopular
measure; which, however, they had courage enough to maintain against all opposition. The bill
passed the ordeal of both houses, and his majesty vouchsafed the royal sanction to this law
in favour of the Hebrew nation. The truth is, it might have increased the wealth, and extended
the commerce of Great Britain, had it been agreeable to the people; and as the naturalized
Jews would still have been excluded from all civil and military offices, as well as from other
privileges enjoyed by their christian brethren, in all probability they would have gradually
forsaken their own unprofitable and obstinate infidelity, opened their eyes to the shining
truths of the gospel, and joined their fellow-subjects in embracing the doctrines of Christianity.
But no ministry ought to risk an experiment, how plausible soever it might be, if they found
it, as this was, an object of the people's unconquerable aversion. What rendered this unpopular
measure the more impolitic, was the unseasonable juncture at which it was carried into execution;
that is, at the eve of a general election for a new parliament, when a minister ought carefully
to avoid every step which may give umbrage to the body of the people. The earl of Egmont, who
argued against the bill with equal power and vivacity, in describing the effect it might have
upon that occasion, "I am amazed," said he, "that this consideration makes no impression.--When
that day, which is not far off, shall arrive, I shall not fear to set my foot upon any ground
of election in the kingdom, in opposition to any one man among you, or any new christian, who
has voted or appeared in favour of this naturalization."

MARRIAGE ACT.

Another bill, transmitted from the upper house, met with a reception equally unfavourable among
the commons, though it was sustained on the shoulders of the majority, and thus forced its
way to the throne, where it obtained the royal approbation. The practice of solemnizing clandestine
marriages, so prejudicial to the peace of families, and so often productive of misery to the
parties themselves thus united, was an evil that prevailed to such a degree as claimed the
attention of the legislature. The sons and daughters of great and opulent families, before
they had acquired knowledge and experience, or attained to the years of discretion, were every
day seduced in their affections, and inveigled into matches big with infamy and ruin; and these
were greatly facilitated by the opportunities that occurred of being united instantaneously
by the ceremony of marriage, in the first transport of passion, before the destined victim
had time to cool or deliberate on the subject. For this pernicious purpose, there was a band
of profligate miscreants, the refuse of the clergy, dead to every sentiment of virtue, abandoned
to all sense of decency and decorum, for the most part prisoners for debt or delinquency, and
indeed the very outcasts of human society, who hovered about the verge of the Fleet-prison
to intercept customers, plying like porters for employment, and performed the ceremony of marriage
without license or question, in cellars, garrets, or ale-houses, to the scandal of religion,
and the disgrace of that order which they professed. The ease with which this ecclesiastical
sanction was obtained, and the vicious disposition of those wretches, open to the practices
of fraud and corruption, were productive of polygamy, indigence, conjugal infidelity, prostitution,
and every curse that could embitter the married state. A remarkable case of this nature having
fallen under the cognizance of the peers, in an appeal from an inferior tribunal, that house
ordered the judges to prepare a new bill for preventing such abuses; and one was accordingly
framed, under the auspices of lord Hardwicke, at that time lord high chancellor of England.
In order to anticipate the bad effects of clandestine marriages, this new statute enacted,
that the banns should be regularly published three successive Sundays, in the church of the
parish where the parties dwell; that no license should be granted to marry in any place, where
one of the parties has not dwelt at least a month, except a special license by the archbishop;
that if any marriage should be solemnized in any other place than a church or a chapel without
a special license, or in a public chapel without having published the banns, or obtained a
license of some person properly qualified, the marriage should he void, and the person who
solemnized it transported for seven years; that marriages by license, of parties under age,
without consent of parent or guardian, should be null and void, unless the party under age
be a widow, and the parent refusing consent a widow married again: that when the consent of
a mother or guardian is refused from caprice, or such parent or guardian be non compos mentis,
or beyond sea, the minor should have recourse for relief to the court of chancery; that no
suit should be commenced to compel a celebration of marriage, upon pretence of any contract;
that all marriages should be solemnized before two witnesses, and an entry be made in a book
kept for that purpose, whether it was by banns or license, whether either of the parties was
under age, or the marriage celebrated with the consent of parent or guardian, and this entry
to be signed by the minister, the parties, and the witnesses; that a false license or certificate,
or destroying register books, should be deemed felony, either in principal or accessary, and
punished with death. The bill, when first considered in the lower house, gave rise to a variety
of debates; in which the members appeared to be divided rather according to their real sentiments,
than by the rules of any political distinction; for some principal servants of the government
freely differed in opinion from the minister, who countenanced the bill; while on the other
hand, he was on this occasion supported by certain chiefs of the opposition, and the disputes
were maintained with extraordinary eagerness and warmth. The principal objections imported,
that such restrictions on marriage would damp the spirit of love and propagation; promote mercenary
matches, to the ruin of domestic happiness, as well as to the prejudice of posterity and population;
impede the circulation of property, by preserving the wealth of the kingdom among a kind of
aristocracy of opulent families, who would always intermarry within their own pale; subject
the poor to many inconveniencies and extraordinary expense, from the nature of the forms to
be observed; and throw an additional power into the hands of the chancellor. They affirmed,
that no human power had a right to dissolve a vow solemnly made in the sight of heaven; and
that, in proportion as the bill prevented clandestine marriages, it would encourage fornication
and debauchery, insomuch as the parties restrained from indulging their mutual passions in
an honourable manner, would be tempted to gratify them by stealth, at the hazard of their reputation.
In a word, they foresaw a great number of evils in the train of this bill, which have not yet
been realized. On the other side, its advocates endeavoured to refute these arguments, and
some of them spoke with great strength and precision. The bill underwent a great number of
alterations and amendments; which were not effected without violent contest and altercation.
At length, however, it was floated through both houses on the tide of a great majority, and
steered into the safe harbour of royal approbation. Certain it is, the abuse of clandestine
marriage might have been removed upon much easier terms than those imposed upon the subject
by this bill; which, after all, hath been found ineffectual, as it may be easily eluded by
a short voyage to the continent, or a moderate journey to North Britain, where the indissoluble
knot may be tied without scruple or interruption.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DELIBERATIONS CONCERNING THE SUGAR COLONIES.

Over and above these new statutes, there were some other subjects which occasionally employed
the attention of the commons; such as the state of the British sugar colonies, which was considered,
in consequence of petitions presented by the sugar refiners and grocers of London, Westminster,
and Bristol, complaining of the exorbitant price demanded and given for sugars imported from
Jamaica; desiring that the proprietors of lands in Jamaica might be obliged to cultivate greater
quantities of ground for raising sugar-canes, or that they (the petitioners) might have leave
to import muscovado sugars from other countries, when the price of those imported from Jamaica
should exceed a certain rate. This remonstrance was taken into consideration by a committee
of the whole house; and a great number of evidences and papers being examined, they resolved,
that the peopling of Jamaica with white inhabitants, and cultivating the lands thereof, would
be the most proper measure for securing that island, and increasing the trade and navigation
between it and Great Britain, and other parts of his majesty's dominions; that the endeavours
hitherto used by the legislature of Jamaica to increase the number of white inhabitants, and
enforce the cultivation of lands, in the manner that might best conduce to the security and
defence of that island, had not been effectual for these purposes. The house ordered a bill
to be founded on these resolutions; but this was postponed until the ministry should receive
more full information touching the true state of that island. The planters of Jamaica laboured
under many grievances and hardships, from divers heavy impositions and restrictions; and a
detail of these was transmitted in a representation to his majesty, which was referred to the
consideration of the commissioners of trade and plantations. The cause of the planters was
defended vigorously, and managed in the house of commons by alderman Beckford, a gentleman
of vast possessions in the island of Jamaica, who perfectly well understood, and strenuously
supported, the interest of that his native country.

FATE OF THE REGISTER BILL.

Abortive also proved the attempt to establish a law for keeping an annual register of marriages,
births, deaths, the individuals who received alms, and the total number of people in Great
Britain. A bill for this purpose was presented by Mr. Potter, a gentleman of pregnant parts
and spirited elocution; who, enumerating the advantages of such a law, observed, that it would
ascertain the number of the people, and the collective strength of the nation; consequently,
point out those places where there is a defect or excess of population, and certainly determine
whether a general naturalization would be advantageous or prejudicial to the community; that
it would decide what number of men might, on any sudden emergency, be levied for the defence
of the kingdom; and whether the nation is gainer or loser, by sending its natives to settle,
and our troops to defend distant colonies; that it would be the means of establishing a local
administration of civil government, or a police upon certain fixed principles, the want of
which hath been long a reproach to the nation, a security to vice, and an encouragement to
idleness; that in many cases where all other evidence is wanting, it would enable suitors to
recover their right in courts of justice, facilitate an equal and equitable assessment in raising
the present taxes, and laying future impositions; specify the lineal descents, relations, and
alliances of families; lighten the intolerable burdens incurred by the public, from innumerable
and absurd regulations relating to the poor; provide for them by a more equal exertion of humanity,
and effectually screen them from all risk of perishing by hunger, cold, cruelty, and oppression.
Whether such a law would have answered the sanguine expectations of its patron, we shall not
pretend to determine; though, in our opinion, it must have been attended with very salutary
consequences, particularly in restraining the hand of robbery and violence, in detecting fraud,
bridling the ferocity of a licentious people, and establishing a happy system of order and
subordination. At first the bill met with little opposition, except from Mr. Thornton, member
for the city of York, who inveighed against it with great fervour, as a measure that savoured
of French policy, to which the English nation ever had the utmost aversion. He affirmed, that
the method in which it was proposed this register should be kept, would furnish the enemies
of Great Britain with continual opportunities of knowing the strength or weakness of the nation;
that it would empower an ill-designing minister to execute any scheme subversive of public
liberty, invest parish and petty officers of the peace with exorbitant powers, and cost the
nation about fifty thousand pounds a-year to carry the scheme into execution. These arguments,
which, we apprehend, are extremely frivolous and inconclusive, had great weight with a considerable
number who joined in the opposition, while the ministry stood neutral. Nevertheless, after
having undergone some amendments, it was conveyed to the lords, by whom it was, at the second
reading, thrown out as a scheme of very dangerous tendency. The legislature of Great Britain
have, on some occasions, been more startled at the distant shadow of a bare possibility, than
at the real approach of the most dangerous innovation.

SIR HANS SLOANE'S MUSEUM PURCHASED BY PARLIAMENT.

From the usual deliberations on civil and commercial concerns, the attention of the parliament,
which had seldom or never turned upon literary avocations, was called off by an extraordinary
subject of this nature. Sir Hans Sloane, the celebrated physician and naturalist, well known
through all the civilized countries of Europe for his ample collection of rarities, culled
from the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms, as well as of antiquities and curiosities
of art, had directed, in his last will, that this valuable museum, together with his numerous
library, should be offered to the parliament, for the use of the public, in consideration of
their paying a certain sum in compensation to his heirs. His terms were embraced by the commons,
who agreed to pay twenty thousand pounds for the whole, supposed to be worth four times that
sum; and a bill was prepared for purchasing this museum, together with the Harleian collection
of manuscripts, so denominated from its founder, Robert Harley, earl of Oxford, lord-high-treasurer
of England, and now offered to the public by his daughter, the duchess of Portland. It was
proposed, that these purchases should be joined to the famous Cottonian library, and a suitable
repository provided for them and the king's library, which had long lain neglected and exposed
to the injuries of the weather in the old dormitory at Westminster. Accordingly, trustees and
governors, consisting of the most eminent persons of the kingdom, were appointed, and regulations
established for the management of this noble museum, which was deposited in Montagu-house,
one of the most magnificent edifices in England, where it is subjected, without reserve, to
the view of the public, under certain necessary restrictions, and exhibits a glorious monument
of national taste and liberality. *

     * The library of sir Hans Sloane consisted of above fifty
     thousand volumes, including about three hundred and fifty
     books of drawings, and three thousand five hundred and
     sixteen manuscripts, besides a multitude of prints. The
     museum comprehended an infinite number of medals, coins,
     urns, utensils, seals, cameos, intaglios, precious stones,
     vessels of agate and jasper, crystals, spars, fossils,
     metals, minerals, ore, earths, sands, salts, bitumens,
     sulphurs, ambergrise, talcs, mirre, testacea, corals,
     sponges, echini, echenites, asteri, trochi, crustatia,
     stellae marine, fishes, birds, eggs and nests, vipers,
     serpents, quadrupeds, insects, human calculi, anatomical
     preparations, seeds, gums, roots, dried plants, pictures,
     drawings, and mathematical instruments. All these articles,
     with a short account of each, are specified in thirty-eight
     volumes in folio, and eight in quarto.

In the beginning of June the session of parliament was closed by his majesty, who mentioned
nothing particular in his speech, but that the state of foreign affairs had suffered no alteration
since their meeting.

The genius of the English people is perhaps incompatible with a state of perfect tranquillity;
if it was not ruffled by foreign provocations, or agitated by unpopular measures of domestic
administration, it will undergo temporary fermentations from the turbulent ingredients inherent
in its own constitution Tumults are excited, and faction kindled into rage and inveteracy,
by incidents of the most frivolous nature. At this juncture the metropolis of England was divided
and discomposed in a surprising manner, by a dispute in itself of so little consequence to
the community, that it could not deserve a place in a general history, if it did not serve
to convey a characteristic idea of the English nation. In the beginning of the year an obscure
damsel, of low degree, whose name was Elizabeth Canning, promulgated a report, which in a little
time attracted the attention of the public. She affirmed, that on the first day of the new
year, at night, she was seized under Bedlam-wall by two ruffians, who having stripped her of
her upper apparel, secured her mouth with a gag, and threatened to murder her should she make
the least noise; that they conveyed her on foot about ten miles, to a place called Enfieldwash,
and brought her to the house of one Mrs. Wells, where she was pillaged of her stays; and because
she refused to turn prostitute, confined in a cold, damp, separate, and unfurnished apartment;
where she remained a whole month, without any other sustenance than a few stale crusts of bread,
and about a gallon of water; till at length she forced her way through a window, and ran home
to her mother's house almost naked, in the night of the twenty-ninth of January. This story,
improbable and unsupported, operated so strongly on the passions of the people in the neighbourhood
of Aldermanbury, where Canning's mother lived, and particularly among fanatics of all denominations,
that they raised voluntary contributions, with surprising eagerness, in order to bring the
supposed delinquents to justice. Warrants were granted for apprehending Wells, who kept the
house at Enfieldwash, and her accomplices, the servant maid, whose name was Virtue Hall, and
one Squires, an old gipsey-woman, which last was charged by Canning of having robbed her of
her stays. Wells, though acquitted of the felony, was punished as a bawd. Hall turned evidence
for Canning, but afterwards recanted. Squires, the gipsey, was convicted of the robbery, though
she produced undoubted evidence to prove that she was at Abbotsbury in Dorsetshire that very
night in which the felony was said to be committed, and Canning and her friends fell into divers
contradictions during the course of the trial. By this time the prepossession of the common
people in her favour had risen to such a pitch of enthusiasm, that the most palpable truths
which appeared on the other side, had no other effect than that of exasperating them to the
most dangerous degree of rage and revenge. Some of the witnesses for Squires, though persons
of unblemished character, were so intimidated, that they durst not enter the court; and those
who had resolution enough to give evidence in her behalf, ran the risk of assassination from
the vulgar that surrounded the place. On this occasion, sir Crisp Gascoyne, lord-mayor of London,
behaved with that laudable courage and humanity which ought ever to distinguish the chief magistrate
of such a metropolis. Considering the improbability of the charge, the heat, partiality, and
blind enthusiasm with which it was prosecuted, and being convinced of the old woman's innocence
by a great number of affidavits, voluntarily sent up from the country by persons of unquestionable
credit, he, in conjunction with some other worthy citizens, resolved to oppose the torrent
of vulgar prejudice. Application was made to the throne for mercy; the case was referred to
the attorney and solicitor-general, who, having examined the evidences on both sides, made
their report in favour of Squires to the king and council; and this poor old creature was indulged
with his majesty's pardon. This affair was now swelled up into such a faction as divided the
greater part of the kingdom, including the rich as well as the poor, the high as well as the
humble. Pamphlets and pasquinades were published on both sides of the dispute, which became
the general topic of conversation in all assemblies, and people of all ranks espoused one or
other party with as much warmth and animosity as had ever inflamed the whigs and tories, even
at the most rancorous period of their opposition. Subscriptions were opened, and large sums
levied, on one side, to prosecute for perjury the persons on whose evidence the pardon had
been granted. On the other hand, those who had interested themselves for the gipsey resolved
to support her witnesses, and, if possible, detect the imposture of Canning. Bills of perjury
were preferred on both sides. The evidences for Squires were tried and acquitted; at first
Canning absconded; but afterwards surrendered to take her trial, and being, after a long hearing,
found guilty, was transported to the British colonies. The zeal of her friends, however, seemed
to be inflamed by her conviction; and those who carried on the prosecution against her were
insulted, even to the danger of their lives. They supplied her with necessaries of all sorts,
paid for her transportation in a private ship, where she enjoyed all the comforts and conveniences
that could be afforded in that situation, and furnished her with such recommendations as secured
to her a very agreeable reception in New England.

EXECUTION OF DR. CAMERON.

Next to this very remarkable transaction, the incident that principally distinguished this
year in England, was the execution of Doctor Archibald Cameron, a native of North Britain,
and brother to Cameron of Lochiel, chief of that numerous and warlike tribe who had taken the
field with the prince-pretender. After the battle of Culloden, where he was dangerously wounded,
he found means to escape to the continent. His brother, the doctor, had accompanied him in
all his expeditions, though not in a military capacity, and was included with him in the act
of attainder passed against those who had been concerned in the rebellion. Notwithstanding
the imminent danger attending such an attempt, the doctor returned privately to Scotland, in
order, as it was reported, to recover a sum of money belonging to the pretender, which had
been embezzled by his adherents in that country. Whatever may have been his inducement to revisit
his native country under such a predicament, certain it is, he was discovered, apprehended,
and conducted to London, confined in the Tower, examined by the privy-council, and produced
in the court of king's-bench, where his identity being proved by several witnesses, he received
sentence of death, and was executed at Tyburn. The terror and resentment of the people, occasioned
by the rebellion, having by this time subsided, their humane passions did not fail to operate
in favour of this unfortunate gentleman; their pity was mingled with esteem, arising from his
personal character, which was altogether unblemished, and his deportment on this occasion,
which they could not help admiring as the standard of manly fortitude and decorum.

TUMULTS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE KINGDOM.

The turbulent spirit, which is never totally extinguished in this island, manifested itself
in sundry tumults that broke out in different parts of South Britain. The price of provisions,
and bread in particular, being raised to an exorbitant rate in consequence of an absurd exportation
of corn, for the sake of the bounty, a formidable body of colliers, and other labouring people,
raised an insurrection at Bristol, began to plunder the corn vessels in the harbour, and commit
such outrages in the city, that the magistrates were obliged to have recourse to military power.
A troop of dragoons were sent to their assistance, and the insurgents were quelled, though
not without some bloodshed. Commotions of the same kind were excited in Yorkshire, Manchester,
and several other places in the northern counties At Leeds, a detachment of the king's troops
were obliged in their own defence to fire upon the rioters, eight or nine of whom were killed
on the spot; and, indeed, so little care had been taken to restrain the licentious insolence
of the vulgar by proper laws and regulations, duly executed under the eye of civil magistracy,
that a military power was found absolutely necessary to maintain the peace of the kingdom.

DISTURBANCES IN FRANCE.

The tranquillity of the continent was not endangered by any new contest or disturbance; yet
the breach between the clergy and the parliament of Paris was every day more and more widened,
and the people were pretty equally divided between superstition and a regard for civil liberty.
The parliament having caused divers ecclesiastics to be apprehended, for having refused to
administer the sacraments to persons in extremity, who refused to subscribe to the bull Unigenitus,
all of them declared they acted according to the direction of the archbishop of Paris. Application
being made to this haughty prelate, he treated the deputies of the parliament with the most
supercilious contempt, and even seemed to brave the power and authority of that body. They,
on the other hand, proceeded to take cognizance of the recusant clergy, until their sovereign
ordered them to desist. Then they presented remonstrances to his majesty, reminding him of
their privileges, and the duty of their station, which obliged them to do justice on all their
delinquents. In the meantime they continued to perform their functions, and even commenced
a prosecution against the bishop of Orleans, whom they summoned to attend their tribunal. Next
day they received from Versailles a lettre de cachet, accompanied by letters patent, commanding
them to suspend all prosecutions relating to the refusal of the sacraments; and ordering the
letters patent to be registered. Instead of obeying these commands, they presented new remonstrances,
for answers to which they were referred to the king's former declarations. In consequence of
this intimation, they had spirit enough to resolve, "That, whereas certain evil-minded persons
had prevented truth from reaching the throne, the chambers remained assembled, and all other
business should be suspended." The affair was now become very serious. His majesty, by fresh
letters patent, renewed his orders, and commanded them to proceed with their ordinary business,
on pain of incurring his displeasure. They forthwith came to another resolution, importing,
that they could not obey this injunction without a breach of their duty and their oath. Next
day lettres de cachet were issued, banishing to different parts of the kingdom all the members,
except those of the great chamber, which the court did not find more tractable than their brethren.
They forthwith resolved to abide by the two resolutions mentioned above; and, as an instance
of their unshaken fortitude, ordered an ecclesiastic to be taken into custody for refusing
the sacraments. This spirited measure involved them in the fate of the rest; for they were
also exiled from Paris, the citizens of which did not fail to extol their conduct with the
loudest encomiums, and at the same time to express their resentment against the clergy, who
could not stir abroad without being exposed to violence or insult. The example of the parliament
of Paris was followed by that of Rouen, which had courage enough to issue orders for apprehending
the bishop of Evreux, because he had refused to appear when summoned to their tribunal. Their
decrees on this occasion being annulled by the king's council of state, they presented a bold
remonstrance, which, however, had no other effect than that of exasperating the ministry. A
grand deputation being ordered to attend the king, they were commanded to desist from intermeddling
in disputes relating to the refusal of the sacraments, and to register this injunction. At
their return they had recourse to a new remonstrance; and one of their principal counsellors,
who had spoken freely in the debates on this subject, was arrested by a party of dragoons,
who carried him prisoner to the castle of Dourlens. In a word, the body of the people declared
for the parliament, in opposition to ecclesiastical tyranny; and had they not been overawed
by a formidable standing army, would certainly have taken up arms in defence of their liberties;
while the monarch weakly suffered himself to be governed by priestly delusions; and, secure
in his military appointment, seemed to set the rest of his subjects at defiance. Apprehensive,
however, that these disputes would put an entire stop to the administration of justice, he,
by letters patent, established a royal chamber for the prosecution of suits civil and criminal,
which was opened with a solemn mass performed in the queen's chapel at the Louvre, where all
the members assisted. On this occasion another difficulty occurred. The letters patent, constituting
this new court, ought to have been registered by the parliament which was now no more. To remedy
this defect, application was made to the inferior court of the Chatelet, which refusing to
register them, one of its members was committed to the Bastile, and another absconded. Intimidated
by this exertion of despotic power, they allowed the king's officers to enter the letters in
their register; but afterwards adopted more vigorous resolutions. The lieutenant,-civil appearing
in their court, all the counsellors rose up and retired, leaving him alone, and on the table
an arret, importing, that whereas the confinement of one of their members, the prosecution
of another, who durst not appear, and the present calamities of the nation, gave them just
apprehensions for their own persons; they had, after mature deliberation, thought proper to
retire. Thus a dangerous ferment was excited by the king's espousing the cause of spiritual
insolence and oppression against the general voice of his people, and the plainest dictates
of reason and common sense.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE DIET RELATIVE TO EAST FRIEZELAND.

The property of East Friezeland continued still to be the source of contention between the
electors of Bran-denburgh and Hanover. The interest of his Britannic majesty being powerfully
supported by the house of Austria, the minister of that power at the diet proposed that the
affair should be taken into immediate consideration. He was seconded by the minister of Brunswick;
but the envoy from Brandenburgh, having protested in form against this procedure, withdrew
from the assembly, and the Brunswick minister made a counter-protestation, after which he also
retired. Then a motion being made, that this dispute should be referred to the decision of
the Aulic council at Vienna, it was carried in the affirmative by a majority of fourteen voices.
His Prussian majesty's final declaration with regard to this affair was afterwards presented
to the diet, and answered in the sequel by a memorial from his Britannic majesty as elector
of Hanover. Some other petty disputes likewise happened between the regency of Hanover and
the city of Munster; and the former claiming some bailiwicks in the territories of Bremen,
sequestered certain revenues belonging to this city, in Stade and Ferden, till these claims
should be satisfied.

EXTRAORDINARY TREATY.

The court of Vienna having dropped for the present the scheme for electing a king of the Romans,
concluded a very extraordinary treaty with the duke of Modena, stipulating that his serene
highness should be appointed perpetual governor of the duchy of Milan, with a salary of ninety
thousand florins, on condition that he should maintain a body of four thousand men, to be at
the disposal of the empress-queen; that her imperial majesty should have a right to place garrisons
in the citadels of Mirandola and Reggio, as well as in the castle of Massa-Carrara: that the
archduke Peter Leopold, third son of their imperial majesties, should espouse the daughter
of the hereditary prince of Modena, by the heiress of Massa-Carrara; and in case of her dying
without heirs male, the estates of that house and the duchy of Mirandola should devolve to
the archduke; but in case of her having male issue, that she should enjoy the principality
of Fermia, and other possessions in Hungary, claimed by the duke of Modena, for her fortune;
finally, that on the extinction of the male branch of the house of Este, all the dominions
of the duke of Modena should devolve to the house of Austria.

CONFERENCES WITH RESPECT TO NOVA SCOTIA BROKE UP.

While the powers on the continent of Europe were thus employed in strengthening their respective
interests, and concerting measures for preventing any interruption of the general tranquillity,
matters were fast ripening to a fresh rupture between the subjects of Great Britain and France,
in different parts of North America. We have already observed that commissaries had been appointed,
and conferences opened at Paris, to determine the disputes between the two crowns, relating
to the boundaries of Nova Scotia; and we took notice in general of the little arts of evasion
practised by the French commissaries, to darken and perplex the dispute, and elude the pretensions
of his Britannic majesty. They persisted in employing these arts of chicanery and cavil with
such perseverance, that the negotiation proved abortive, the conferences broke up, and every
thing seemed to portend approaching hostilities. But, before we proceed to a detail of the
incidents which were the immediate forerunners of the war, we will endeavour to convey a just
idea of the dispute concerning Nova Scotia; which, we apprehend, is but imperfectly understood,
though of the utmost importance to the interest of Great Britain.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DESCRIPTION OF NOVA SCOTIA.

Nova Scotia, called by the French Acadia, lies between the forty-fourth and fiftieth degrees
of north latitude, having New England and the Atlantic ocean to the south and south-west, and
the river and gulph of St. Lawrence to the north and north-east. The winter, which continues
near seven months in this country, is intensely cold; and without the intervention of any thing
that can be called spring, it is immediately succeeded by a summer, the heat of which is almost
insupportable, but of no long continuance. The soil in general is thin and barren, though some
parts of it are said to be equal to the best land in England. The whole country is covered
with a perpetual fog, even after the summer has commenced. It was first possessed by the French,
before they made any establishment in Canada; who, by dint of industry and indefatigable perseverance,
in struggling with the many difficulties they necessarily laboured under in the infancy of
this settlement, subsisted tolerably well, and increased considerably, with very little assistance
from Europe; whilst we, even now, should lose the immense expense we have already been at to
settle a colony there, and should see all our endeavours to that end defeated, if the support
of the royal hand was withdrawn but for a moment. This country, by the possession of which
an enemy would be enabled greatly to annoy all our other colonies, and, if in the hands of
the French, would be of singular service both to their fishery and their sugar islands, has
frequently changed hands from the French to the English, and from the English back again to
the French, till our right to it was finally settled by the twelfth article of the treaty of
Utrecht, by which all the country included within the ancient limits of what was called Nova
Scotia or Acadia, was ceded to the English. This article was confirmed by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle,
but, for want of ascertaining distinctly what were the bounds intended to be fixed by the two
nations with respect to this province, disputes arose, and commissaries, as we have observed,
were appointed by both sides to adjust the litigation.

The commissaries of the king of Great Britain conformed themselves to the rule laid down by
the treaty itself, and assigned those as the ancient limits of this country, which had always
passed as such, from the very earliest time of any certainty, down to the conclusion of the
treaty; which the two crowns had frequently declared to be such, and which the French had often
admitted and allowed. These limits are, the southern bank of the river St. Lawrence to the
north, and Pentagoet to the west: the country situated between these boundaries is that which
the French received by the treaty of St. Germain's, in the year one thousand six hundred and
thirty-two, under the general name of Acadia. Of this country, thus limited, they continued
in possession from that period to the year one thousand six hundred and fifty-four, when a
descent was made upon it, under the command of colonel Sedgwick. That these were then the undisputed
limits of Acadia, his Britannic majesty's commissaries plainly proved, by a letter of Louis
XIII. to the sieurs Charnisay and La Tour, regulating their jurisdictions in Acadia; by the
subsequent commissions of the French king to the same persons, as governors of Acadia, in the
sequel; and by that which was afterwards granted to the sieur Denys, in the year one thousand
six hundred and fifty-four; all of which extend the bounds of this country from the river St.
Lawrence to Pentagoet and New England. That these were the notions of the French with respect
to the ancient limits of this province, was further confirmed by the demands made by their
ambassador in the course of that same year, for the restitution of the forts Pentagoet, St.
John's, and Port Eoyal, as forts situated in Acadia. In the year one thousand six hundred and
sixty-two, upon the revival of the claim of France to the country of Acadia, which had been
left undecided by the treaty of Westminster, the French ambassador, then at the court of London,
assigned Pentagoet as the western, and the river St. Lawrence as the northern, boundary of
that country; and alleged the restitution of Acadia in the year one thousand six hundred and
thirty-two, and the possession taken by France in consequence thereof, as well as the continuation
of that possession, with the same limits, to the year one thousand six hundred and fifty-four,
as proofs of the equity and validity of the claim he then made; in which claim and in the manner
of supporting it, he was particularly approved of by the court of France. The same court afterwards
thought it so clear, upon former determinations, and her own former possessions, that the true
ancient boundaries of Acadia were Pentagoet to the west, and the river St. Lawrence to the
north, that she desired no specification of limits in the treaty of Breda, but was contented
with the restitution of Acadia, generally named; and, upon a dispute which arose in the execution
of this treaty, France re-asserted, and Great Britain, after some discussion, agreed to the
above-mentioned limits of Acadia; and France obtained possession of that country, so bounded,
under the treaty of Breda. The sense of France upon this subject, in the years one thousand
six hundred and eighty-five, and one thousand six hundred and eighty-seven, was also clearly
manifested in the memorials delivered at that time by the French ambassador at the court of
London, complaining of some encroachments made by the English upon the coast of Acadia: he
described the country as extending from isle Percée, which lies at the entrance of the river
St. Lawrence, to St. George's island; and again, in a subsequent complaint, made by Mons. Barillon
and Mons. Bonrepaus to the court of Great Britain, against the judge of Pemaquid, for having
seized the effects of a French merchant at Pentagoet, which, said they, was situated in Acadia,
as restored to France by the treaty of Breda. To explain the sense of France, touching the
bounds of Acadia in the year one thousand seven hundred, the British commissaries produced
a proposal of the French ambassador, then residing in Great Britain, to restrain the limits
of that country to the river St-George. They also instanced the surrender of Port Royal in
the year one thousand seven hundred and ten, in which Acadia is described with the same limits
with which France had received it in the years one thousand six hundred and thirty-two, and
one thousand six hundred and sixty-seven. And further to ascertain the sense of both crowns,
even at the treaty of Utrecht itself, they produced the queen of Great Britain's instructions
to her ambassadors, in the year one thousand seven hundred and eleven, in which they were directed
to insist, "That his most christain majesty should quit all claim or title, by virtue of any
former treaty, or otherwise, to the country called Nova Scotia, and expressly to Port Royal,
otherwise Annapolis Royal." To these they added a manifest demonstration, founded on indisputable
facts, proving that the recital of the several sorts of right which France had ever pretended
to this country, and the specification of both terms, Acadia or Nova Scotia, were intended
by Great Britain to obviate all doubts which had ever been made concerning the limits of Acadia,
and to comprehend with more certainty all that country which France had ever received as such;
finally, to specify what France considered as Acadia. During the treaty, they referred to the
offers of that crown in the year one thousand seven hundred and twelve, in which she proposed
to restrain the boundary of Acadia to the river St. George, as a departure from its real boundary,
in case Great Britain would restore to her the possession of that country. From all these facts
it plainly appears that Great Britain demanded nothing but what the fair construction of the
words of the treaty of Utrecht necessarily implies; and that it is impossible for any thing
to have more evident marks of candour and fairness in it, than the demand of the English on
this occasion. From the variety of evidence brought in support of this claim, it evidently
results that the English commissaries assigned no limits as the ancient limits of Acadia, but
those which France herself determined to be such in the year one thousand six hundred and thirty-two;
and which she possessed, in consequence of that determination, till the year one thousand six
hundred and fifty-four; that in one thousand six hundred and sixty-two, France claimed, and
received in one thousand six hundred and sixty-nine, the country which Great Britain now claims
as Acadia, restored to France by the treaty of Breda under that general denomination; that
France never considered Acadia as having any other limits than those which were assigned to
it from the year one thousand six hundred and thirty-two, to the year one thousand seven hundred
and ten; and that, by the treaty of Utrecht, she engaged to transfer that very same country
as Acadia, which France has always asserted and possessed, and Great Britain now claims, as
such. Should the crown of France, therefore, be ever willing to decide what are the ancient
limits of Acadia, by her own declarations so frequently made in like discussions upon the same
point, by her possessions of this country for almost a century, and by her description of Acadia,
during the negotiation of that very treaty upon which this doubt is raised, she cannot but
admit the claim of Great Britain to be conformable to the treaty of Utrecht, and to the description
of the country transferred to Great Britain by the twelfth article of that treaty. There is
a consistency in the claim of the English, and a completeness in the evidence brought in support
of it, which is seldom seen in discussions of this sort; for it rarely happens, in disputes
of such a nature between two crowns, that either of them can safely offer to have its pretensions
decided by the known and repeated declarations, or the possessions of the other. To answer
the force of this detail of conclusive historical facts, and to give a new turn to the real
question in dispute, the French commissaries, in their memorial, laid it down as a distinction
made by the treaty of Utrecht, that the ancient limits of Acadia, referred to by that treaty,
are different from any with which that country may have passed under the treaties of St. Germain's
and Breda; and then endeavoured to show, upon the testimonies of maps and historians, that
Acadia and its limits were anciently confined to the south-eastern part of the peninsula. In
support of this system, the French commissaries had recourse to ancient maps and historians,
who, as they asserted, had ever confined Acadia to the limits they assigned. They alleged,
that those commissions of the French government over Acadia, which the English cited as evidence
of the limits they claimed, were given as commissions over Acadia and the country around it,
and not over Acadia only; that the whole of the country claimed by the English as Acadia, could
not possibly be supposed ever to be considered as such, because many parts of that territory
always did, and still do, preserve particular and distinct names. They affirmed New France
to be a province in itself; and argued that many parts of what we claim as Acadia can never
have been in Acadia, because historians and the French commissions of government expressly
place them in New France. They asserted, that no evidence can be drawn of the opinion of any
crown, with respect to the limits of any country, from its declaration during the negotiation
of a treaty: and, in the ends relying upon maps and historians for the ancient limits of Acadia,
they pretended that the express restitution of St. Germain's, and the possession taken by France
in consequence of the treaty of Breda, after a long discussion of the limits and the declaration
of France during the negotiation of the treaty of Utrecht, were foreign to the point in question.
In refutation of these maxims, the English commissaries proved, from an examination of the
maps and historians cited by the French in support of their system, that if this question was
to be decided upon the authorities which they themselves allowed to belong, and to be applicable
to, this discussion, the limits which they assigned were utterly inconsistent with the best
maps of all countries, which are authorities in point for almost every part of the claim of
Great Britain. They showed that the French historians, Champlain and Denys, and particularly
this last, with his commission in the year one thousand six hundred and fifty-five, assigned
the same northern and western limits to Acadia which they did; and that Escarbot, another of
their historians, as far as any evidence can be drawn from his writings, agrees entirely with
the former two. They observed, that all these evidences fall in with and confirmed the better
authorities of treaties, and the several transactions between the two crowns for near a century
past; and that the French commissaries, by deviating from treaties, and the late proceedings
of the two crowns, to ancient historians and maps, only made a transition from an authentic
to an insufficient sort of evidence, and led the English commissaries into an inquiry which
proved that both the proper and the improper, the regular and the foreign evidence, upon which
this matter had been rested, equally confuted the limits alleged by the French commissaries
as the ancient limits of Acadia.

CHAPTER IX.

     Ambitious Schemes of the French in North America..... Rise
     and Conduct of the Ohio Company..... Letter from the
     Governor of Virginia to the French Commander at Riviere-au-
     Beuf..... Perfidious Practices of the French in Nova
     Scotia..... Major Laurence defeats the French Neutrals.....
     British Ambassador at Paris amused with general Promises.....
     Session opened..... Supplies granted..... Repeal of the Act
     for naturalizing Jews..... Motion for repealing a former Act
     favourable to the Jews..... East India Mutiny Bill..... Case
     of Le ------ Session closed..... Death of Mr. Pelham.....
     Change in the Ministry..... New Parliament assembled and
     prorogued..... Disputes in the Irish Parliament.....
     Transactions in the East Indies..... Account of the English
     Settlements on the Malabar and Coromandel Coast.....
     Disputes about the Government of Arcot..... Mahommed Ali
     Khan supported by the English..... Mr. Clive takes
     Arcot..... and defeats the Enemy in the Plains of Arani, and
     at Koveripauk..... He reduces three Forts, and takes M.
     d'Anteuil..... Chunda Saib taken and put to Death, and his
     Army routed...... Convention between the East India
     Companies of England and France..... General View of the
     British Colonies in North America..... New England and New
     York..... New Jersey..... Pennsylvania..... Maryland.....
     Virginia..... The two Carolinas..... Georgia..... The
     French surprise Logs-Town, on the Ohio..... Conference with
     the Indians at Albany..... Colonel Washington defeated and
     taken by the French on the Ohio..... Divisions among the
     British Colonies..... The hereditary Prince of Hesse-Cassel
     professes the Roman Catholic Religion..... Parliament of
     Paris recalled from Exile..... Affairs of Spain and
     Portugal..... Session opened..... Supplies granted..... Bill
     in behalf or Chelsea Pensioners..... Oxfordshire
     Election..... Message from the King to the House of
     Commons..... Court of Versailles amuses the English
     Ministry..... Session closed

AMBITIOUS SCHEMES OF THE FRENCH.

While the British ministry depended upon the success of the conferences between the commissaries
of the two crowns at Paris, the French were actually employed in executing their plans of encroachment
upon the British colonies of North America. Their scheme was to engross the whole fur trade
of that continent; and they had already made great progress in extending a chain of forts,
connecting their settlements on the river Mississippi with their possessions in Canada, along
the great lakes of Erie and Ontario, which last issues into the river St. Lawrence. By these
means they hoped to exclude the English from all communication and traffic with the Indian
nations, even those that lay contiguous to the British settlements, and confine them within
a line of their drawing, beyond which they should neither extend their trade nor plantations.
Their commercial spirit did not keep pace with the gigantic strides of their ambition; they
could not supply all those Indians with the necessaries they wanted, so that many of the natives
had recourse to the English settlements; and this commerce produced a connexion, in consequence
of which the British adventurers ventured to travel with merchandise as far as the banks of
the river Ohio, that runs into the Mississippi, a great way on the other side of the Apalachian
mountains, beyond which none of our colonists had ever attempted to penetrate. The tract of
country lying along the Ohio is so fertile, pleasant, and inviting, and the Indians, called
Twightees, who inhabit those delightful plains, were so well disposed towards a close alliance
with the English, that, as far back as the year one thousand seven hundred and sixteen, Mr.
Spotswood, governor of Virginia, proposed a plan for erecting a company to settle such lands
upon this river as should be ceded to them by treaty with the natives; but the design was at
that time frustrated, partly by the indolence and timidity of the British ministry, who were
afraid of giving umbrage to the French, and partly by the jealousies and divisions subsisting
between the different colonies of Great Britain. The very same circumstances encouraged the
French to proceed in their project of invasion. At length they penetrated from the banks of
the river St. Lawrence, across lake Champlain, and upon the territory of New York, built with
impunity, and indeed without opposition, the fort of Crown Point, the most insolent and dangerous
encroachment that they had hitherto carried into execution.

RISE AND CONDUCT OF THE OHIO COMPANY.

Governor Spotswood's scheme for an Ohio company was revived immediately after the peace of
Aix-la-Cha-pelle, when certain merchants of London, who traded to Maryland and Virginia, petitioned
the government on this subject, and were indulged not only with a grant of a great tract of
ground to the southward of Pennsylvania, which they promised to settle, but also with an exclusive
privilege of trading with the Indians on the banks of the river Ohio. This design no sooner
transpired, than the French governor of Canada took the alarm, and wrote letters to the governors
of New York and Pennsylvania giving them to understand, that as the English inland traders
had encroached on the French territories and privileges, by trading with the Indians under
the protection of his sovereign, he would seize them wherever they could be found, if they
did not immediately desist from that illicit practice. No regard being paid to this intimation,
he next year caused three British traders to be arrested. Their effects were confiscated, and
they themselves conveyed to Quebec, from whence they were sent prisoners to Rochelle in France,
and there detained in confinement. In this situation they presented a remonstrance to the earl
of Albemarle, at that time English ambassador in Paris, and he claiming them as British subjects,
they were set at liberty. Although, in answer to his lordship's memorial, the court of Versailles
promised to transmit orders to the French governors in America, to use all their endeavours
for preventing any disputes that might have a tendency to alter the good correspondence established
between the two nations; in all probability the directions given were seemingly the very reverse
of these professions, for the French commanders, partisans, and agents in America, took every
step their busy genius could suggest, to strengthen their own power, and weaken the influence
of the English, by embroiling them with the Indian nations. This task they found the more easy,
as the natives had taken offence against the English, when they understood that their lands
were given away without their knowledge, and that there was a design to build forts in their
country without their consent and concurrence. Indeed, the person whom the new company employed
to survey the banks of the Ohio, concealed his design so carefully, and behaved in other respects
in such a dark mysterious manner, as could not fail to arouse the jealousy of a people naturally
inquisitive, and very much addicted to suspicion. How the company proposed to settle this acquisition
in despite of the native possessors, it is not easy to conceive, and it is still more unaccountable
that they should have neglected the natives, whose consent and assistance they might have procured
at a very small expense. Instead of acting such a fair, open, and honourable part, they sent
a Mr. Gist to make a clandestine survey of the country, as far as the falls of the river Ohio;
and, as we have observed above, his conduct alarmed both the French and Indians. The erection
of this company was equally disagreeable to the separate traders of Virginia and Pennsylvania,
who saw themselves on the eve of being deprived of a valuable branch of traffic, by the exclusive
charter of a monopoly; and therefore they employed their emissaries to foment the jealousy
of the Indians. The French having in a manner commenced hostilities against the English, and
actually built forts on the territories of the British allies at Niagara, and on the lake Erie,
Mr. Hamilton, governor of Pennsylvania, communicated this intelligence to the assembly of the
province, and represented the necessity of erecting truck-houses, or places of strength and
security, on the river Ohio, to which the traders might retire in case of insult or molestation.
The proposal was approved, and money granted for the purpose; but the assembly could not agree
about the manner in which they should be erected; and in the meantime the French fortified
themselves at leisure, and continued to harass the traders belonging to the British settlements.
Repeated complaints of these encroachments and depredations being represented to Mr. Dinwiddie,
governor of Virginia, he, towards the latter end of this very year, sent major Washington with
a letter to the commanding officer of a fort which the French had built on the Riviere-au-Beuf,
which falls into the Ohio, not far from the lake Erie. In this letter Mr. Dinwiddie expressed
his surprise that the French should build forts and make settlements on the river Ohio, in
the western part of the colony of Virginia, belonging to the Crown of Great Britain. He complained
of these encroachments, as well as of the injuries done to the subjects of Great Britain, in
open violation of the law of nations, and of the treaties actually subsisting between the two
crowns. To this spirited intimation the officer replied, that it was not his province to specify
the evidence, and demonstrate the right of the king his master to the lands situated on the
river Ohio; but he would transmit the letter to the marquis du Quesne, and act according to
the answer he should receive from that nobleman. In the meantime, he said he did not think
himself obliged to obey the summons of the English governor; that he commanded the fort by
virtue of an order from his general, to which he was determined to conform with all the precision
and resolution of a good officer. Mr. Dinwiddie expected no other reply, and therefore had
projected a fort to be erected near the forks of the river. The province undertook to defray
the expense, and the stores for that purpose were already provided; but by some fatal over
sight, the concurrence of the Indians was neither obtained nor solicited, and therefore they
looked upon this measure with an evil eye, as a manifest invasion of their property.

PERFIDY OF THE FRENCH.

While the French thus industriously extended their encroachments to the southward, they were
not idle in the gulf of St. Lawrence, but seized every opportunity of distressing the English
settlement of Nova Scotia. We have already observed, that the town of Halifax was no sooner
built, than they spirited up the Indians of that neighbourhood to commit hostilities against
the inhabitants, some of whom they murdered, and others they carried prisoners to Louisbourg,
where they sold them for arms and ammunition, the French pretending that they maintained this
traffic from motives of pure compassion, in order to prevent the massacre of the English captives,
whom, however, they did not set at liberty without exacting an exorbitant ransom. As these
skulking parties of Indians were generally directed and headed by French commanders, repeated
complaints were made to the governor of Louisbourg, who still answered, that his jurisdiction
did not extend over the Indians, and that their French conductors were chosen from the inhabitants
of Annapolis, who thought proper to remain in that country after it was ceded to the English,
and were in fact the subjects of Great Britain. Even while the conferences were carried on
for ascertaining the limits of Nova Scotia, the governor of Canada detached M. la Come, with
some regular troops, and a body of militia, to fortify a post on the bay of Chignecto, on pretence
that this and a great part of the peninsula belonged to his government. The possession of this
post not only secured to the Indians of the continent a free entrance into the peninsula, and
a safe retreat in case of pursuit; but also encouraged the French inhabitants of Annapolis
to rise in open rebellion against the English government.

MAJOR LAURENCE DEFEATS THE FRENCH NEUTRALS.

In the spring of the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty, general Cornwallis, governor
of Halifax, detached major Laurence with a few men to reduce them to obedience. At his approach
they burned their town to ashes, forsook their possessions, and threw themselves under the
protection of M. la Corne, who, thus reinforced, found himself at the head of fifteen hundred
men, well provided with arms and ammunition. Major Laurence being unable to cope with him in
the field, demanded an interview, at which he desired to know for what cause the French inhabitants
of Nova Scotia had shaken off their allegiance to the crown of Great Britain, and violated
the neutrality which they had hitherto affected to profess. The French officer, without pretending
to account for their behaviour, gave him to understand in general terms, that he had orders
to defend his post, and these orders he was determined to obey. The English major finding himself
too weak to attack their united force, and having no orders to commit hostilities against any
but the Indians and their open abettors, returned to Halifax, without having been able to fulfil
the purpose of his expedition. Immediately after his retreat, the French neutrals (so they
were called) returned to their habitations which they had abandoned, and, in conjunction with
the Indians, renewed their depredations upon the inhabitants of Halifax and its dependent settlements.
The English governor, justly incensed at these outrages, and seeing they would neither submit
to the English government themselves, nor allow others to enjoy it with tranquillity, resolved
to expel them effectually from the country they so ill deserved to possess. Major Laurence
was again detached with a thousand men, transported by sea to Chignecto, where he found the
French and Indians intrenched in order to dispute his landing. Notwithstanding this opposition,
he made a descent with a few companies, received and returned a smart fire, and rushing into
their intrenchments, obliged them to fly with the utmost precipitation, leaving a considerable
number killed and wounded on the spot. The fugitives saved themselves by crossing a river,
on the farther bank of which la Corne stood at the head of his troops, drawn up in order to
receive them as friends and dependents. He had by this time erected a fort, which he denominated
Beau Séjour; and now the English built another on the opposite side of the river, which was
called after its founder St. Laurence. This being provided with a good garrison, served as
a check upon the French, and in some measure restrained the incursions of these barbarians.
Not that it effectually answered this purpose; for the Indians and Neutrals still seized every
opportunity of attacking the English in the interior parts of the peninsula. In the course
of the succeeding year they surprised the little town of Dartmouth, on the other side of Halifax-bay,
where they killed and scalped a great number of people, and carried off some prisoners. For
these expeditions the French always supplied them with boats, canoes, arms, and ammunition;
and indeed they were conducted with such care and secrecy, that it was almost impossible to
prevent their success. One sure remedy against the sudden and stolen incursions of those savages
might have been found in the use of staunch hounds, which would have run upon the foot, detected
the skulking parties of the Indians, and frustrated all their ambuscades; but this expedient,
so easy and practicable, was never tried, though frequently recommended in public to the attention
of the government, and the consideration of the colonists. The Indians continued to plunder
and massacre the British subjects with impunity, and were countenanced by the French government
in that country, who now strengthened their lodgement on the neck of the peninsula with an
additional fort, distinguished by the name of Bayeverte; and built a third at the mouth of
St. John's river, on the north side of the bay of Fundy.

BRITISH AMBASSADOR AT PARIS AMUSED WITH GENERAL PROMISES.

All these previous steps to a rupture with England were taken with great deliberation, while
the commissaries of both nations were disputing about the limits of the very country which
they thus arrogantly usurped; and they proceeded to perfect their chain of forts to the southward,
without paying the least regard to the expostulations of the English governors, or to a memorial
presented at Versailles by the earl of Albemarle, the British minister. He demanded that express
orders should be sent to M. de la Jonquire, the commander for the French in America, to desist
from violence against the British subjects in that country; that the fort of Niagara should
be immediately razed; that the subjects of Great Britain, who had been made prisoners, should
be set at liberty, and indemnified for the losses they had sustained; and that the persons
who had committed these excesses should be punished in an exemplary manner. True it is, six
Englishmen, whom they had unjustly taken, were immediately dismissed; and the ambassador amused
with general promises of sending such instructions to the French governor in America, as should
anticipate any cause of complaint for the future; but, far from having any intention to perform
these promises, the court of Versailles, without all doubt, exhorted la Jonquire to proceed
in bringing its ambitious schemes to perfection.

SESSION OPENED.

Every incident in America seemed to prognosticate war, when the session of parliament was opened
on the fifteenth day of November; yet his majesty, on this occasion, told them that the events
of the year had not made it necessary for him to offer any thing in particular to their consideration
relating to foreign affairs. He even declared that the continuance of the public tranquillity,
and the general state of Europe, remained upon the same footing as when they last parted; and
assured them of his steadiness in pursuing the most effectual measures to preserve to his people
the blessings of peace. He expressed uncommon concern that the horrid crimes of robbery and
murder were of late rather increased than diminished, and earnestly recommended this important
object to their serious attention. Affectionate addresses were presented by both houses in
answer to this harangue; and, what was very remarkable, they were proposed and passed without
question or debate.

The commons continued the same number of seamen and land-forces for the ensuing year, which
had been granted in the last session, and made suitable provision for all the exigences of
the state. The whole supply amounted to two millions seven hundred and ninety-seven thousand
nine hundred and sixteen pounds, ten shillings and twopence, to be raised by a land-tax of
two shillings in the pound, a malt-tax, a continuation of certain duties on wine, vinegar,
cider, and beer imported, a sum taken from the sinking-fund, and the overplus of certain grants,
funds, and duties. The provisions made considerably exceeded the grants; but this excess was
chargeable with the interest of what should be borrowed upon the credit in the land or malt-tax,
there being a clause of credit in both, as also with the deficiency (if any should happen)
in the sums they were computed to produce. The house agreed to all these resolutions almost
unanimously; indeed, no opposition was made to any of them, but that for continuing the same
number of land-forces, which was carried by a great majority.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

REPEAL OF THE ACT FOR NATURALIZING JEWS.

The act for permitting Jews to be naturalized, which had, during the last session, triumphed
over such an obstinate opposition, was by this time become the object of national horror and
execration. Every part of the kingdom resounded with the reproach of the ministry who had enforced
such an odious measure; and the two brothers, who engrossed the greater part of the administration,
trembled at the prospect of what this clamour might produce at the general election, this being
the last session of the present parliament. So eager were the ministers to annul this unpopular
measure, that, immediately after the peers had agreed to the nature and forms of an address
to his majesty, the duke of Newcastle, with that precipitation so peculiar to his character,
poured forth an abrupt harangue in that house, importing, that the disaffected had made a handle
of the act passed last session in favour of the Jews, to raise discontents among many of his
majesty's good subjects; and as the act was in itself of little importance, he was of opinion
it ought to be repealed; for this purpose he presented a bill ready framed, which was read
and committed, though not without some debate. The naturalization bill, now devoted as a sacrifice
to the resentment of the people, containing a clause disabling all naturalized Jews from purchasing,
inheriting, or receiving any advowson or presentation, or right to any ecclesiastical benefice
or promotion, school, hospital, or donative; and by the first draft of the bill, which his
grace now presented, it was intended that this clause should not be repealed. It was the opinion,
however, of the majority, that such a clause standing unrepealed might imply, that the Jews,
by being thus expressly excluded from the possession of any ecclesiastical right of presentation,
would be considered as having the power and privilege of purchasing and inheriting any lay-property
in the kingdom. On this consideration an amendment was made in the bill, the clause in question
was left out, and the whole act of naturalization repealed without exception.*

     * The reverend bench of bishops had, with a laudable spirit
     of christian meekness and philanthropy, generally approved
     of the indulgence granted to their Hebrew brethren; and now
     they acquiesced in the proposed repeal with the same passive
     discretion, though one of the number contended for the
     saving clause which the duke of Newcastle had recommended.

Though the lords, in general, concurred in the expediency of the repeal, it was opposed by
some few, as too great a sacrifice to the idle and unfounded clamours of the multitude; and
upon this side of the debate a great power of elocution was displayed by earl Temple, who had
lately succeeded to this title on the death of his mother, a nobleman of distinguished abilities,
and the most amiable disposition, frank, liberal, humane, and zealously attached to the interest
and honour of his country. In the lower house, the members of both parties seemed to vie with
each other in demonstrations of aversion to this unpopular act. On the very first day of the
session, immediately after the motion for an address to his majesty, sir James Dash-wood, an
eminent leader in the opposition, gave the commons to understand, that he had a motion of very
great importance to make, which would require the attention of every member, as soon as the
motion for the address should be discussed; he therefore desired they would not quit the house,
until he should have an opportunity to explain his proposal. Accordingly, they had no sooner
agreed to the motion for an address of thanks to his majesty, than he stood up again, and having
expatiated upon the just and general indignation which the act of the preceding session, in
favour of the Jews, had raised among the people, he moved to order that the house should be
called over on Tuesday the fourth day of December, for taking that act into consideration;
but being given to understand, that it was not usual to appoint a call of the house for any
particular purpose, he agreed that the motion should be general. It was seconded by lord Parker,
his opposite in political interests; the house agreed to it without opposition, and the call
was ordered accordingly. This introduction was considered as an unjust reflection upon the
body of the people in general, and in particular upon those who had opposed the bill in the
course of the preceding session. Sir Roger Newdigate therefore moved, that the expression should
be varied to this effect: "Whereas great discontents and disquietudes had from the said act
arisen." The consequence of this motion was an obstinate debate, in which it was supported
by the earl of Egmont, and divers other able orators; but Mr. Pel ham and Mr. Pitt were numbered
among its opponents. The question being put for the proposed alteration, it was of course carried
in the negative; the bill, after the third reading, passed nemine contradicente, and in due
time obtained the royal assent.

MOTION FOE REPEALING A FORMER ACT FAVOURABLE TO THE JEWS.

Even this concession of the ministry did not allay the resentment of the people, and their
apprehension of encroachment from the Jews. Another act still subsisted, by virtue of which
any person professing the Jewish religion might become a free denizen of Great Britain, after
having resided seven years in any of his majesty's colonies in America; and this was now considered
as a law, having the same dangerous tendency, of which the other was now in a fair way of being
convicted. It was moved, therefore, in the lower house, that a part of this former act might
be read; then the same member made a motion for an address to his majesty, desiring that the
house might have the perusal of the lists transmitted from the American colonies to the commissioners
for trade and plantations, containing the names of all such persons professing the Jewish religion,
as had entitled themselves to the benefit of the said act, since the year one thousand seven
hundred and forty. These lists were accordingly presented, and left upon the table for the
perusal of the members; but as this act contained no limitation of time within which the benefit
of it should be claimed, and as this claim was attended with a good deal of trouble and some
expense, very few persons had availed themselves of it in that period. Nevertheless, as a great
number of Jews were already entitled to claim this indulgence, and as it remained an open channel
through which Great Britain might be deluged with those people, all of whom the law would hold
as natural-born subjects, and their progeny as freed from all tha restriction contained in
the act with respect to naturalized foreigners, lord Harley moved for leave to bring in a bill
to repeal so much of the said act as related to persons professing the Jewish religion, who
should come to settle in any British colony after a certain time. The motion was seconded by
sir James Dashwood, and supported by the earl of Egmont; but being found unequal to the interest
and elocution of Mr. Pelham and Mr. Pitt, was rejected by the majority.

{1754}

EAST-INDIA MUTINY BILL.

The next object that claimed the attention of the commons, was a bill for improving the regulations
already made to prevent the spreading of a contagious distemper, which raged among the horned
cattle in different parts of the kingdom. The last bill of this session that had the good fortune
to succeed, was brought in for punishing mutiny and desertion of officers and soldiers in the
service of the East India company, and for the punishment of offences committed in the East
Indies and the island of St. Helena. This being a measure of a very extraordinary nature, all
the members were ordered to attend the house on the day fixed for the second reading; at the
same time all charters, commissions, and authorities, by which any power relative to a military
jurisdiction, or the exercise of martial law, had been granted or derived from the crown to
the said company, were submitted to the perusal of the members. The bill was by many considered
as a dangerous extension of military power, to the prejudice of the civil rights enjoyed by
British subjects, and as such violently contested by the earl of Egmont, lord Strange, and
Mr. Alderman Beckford. Their objections were answered by the solicitor-general and Mr. Yorke.
The bill, after some warm debates, being espoused by the ministry, was enacted into a law,
and despatched to the East Indies by the first opportunity.

Some other motions were made, and petitions presented on different subjects, which, as they
miscarried, it will be unnecessary to particularize. It may not be amiss, however, to record
an exemplary act of justice done by the commons on a person belonging to a public office, whom
they detected in the practice of fraud and imposition. Notwithstanding the particular care
taken in the last session, to prevent the monopolizing of tickets in the state lottery, all
those precautions had been eluded in a scandalous manner by certain individuals, intrusted
with the charge of delivering the tickets to the contributors, according to the intent of the
act, which expressly declared that not more than twenty should be sold to any one person. Instead
of conforming to these directions of the legislature, they and their friends engrossed great
numbers, sheltering themselves under a false list of feigned names for the purpose; by which
means they not only defeated the equitable intention of the commons, but in some measure injured
the public credit; inasmuch as their avarice had prompted them to subscribe for a greater number
than they had cash to purchase, so that there was a deficiency in the first payment, which
might have had a bad effect on the public affairs. These practices were so flagrant and notorious
as to attract the notice of the lower house, where an inquiry was begun, and prosecuted with
a spirit of real patriotism, in opposition to a scandalous cabal, who endeavoured with equal
eagerness and perseverance to screen the delinquents. All their efforts however proved abortive;
and a committee, appointed to examine particulars, agreed to several severe resolutions against
one Le ----, who had amassed a large fortune by this and other kinds of peculation. They voted
him guilty of a breach of trust, and a direct violation of the lottery act; and an address
was presented to his majesty, desiring he might be prosecuted by the attorney-general for these
offences. He was accordingly sued in the court of king's bench, and paid a fine of one thousand
pounds, for having committed frauds by which he had gained forty times that sum; but he was
treated with such gentleness as remarkably denoted the clemency of that tribunal.

SESSION CLOSED.

The session ended in the beginning of April, when the king gave the parliament to understand,
that he should say nothing at present on foreign affairs; but assured them of his fixed resolution
to exert his whole power in maintaining the general tranquillity, and adhering to such measures
for that purpose as he had hitherto pursued in conjunction with his allies. He, in very affectionate
terms, thanked both houses for the repeated proofs they had given of their zealous attachment
and loyalty to his person and government. He enumerated the salutary measures they had taken
for lessening the national debt, and augmenting the public credit, extending navigation and
commerce, reforming the morals of the people, and improving the regulations of civil economy.
He concluded with declaring, that he securely relied upon the loyalty and good affection of
his people, and had no other aim than their permanent happiness. In a little time after the
close of this session they were dissolved by proclamation, and new writs issued by the lord-chancellor
for convoking a new parliament. The same ceremonies were practised with respect to the convocations
of Canterbury and York, though they no longer retained their former importance; nor indeed
were they suffered to sit and deliberate upon the subjects which formerly fell under their
cognizance and discussion.

DEATH OF MR. PELHAM. CHANGE IN THE MINISTRY.

In the beginning of March, the ministry of Great Britain had been left without a head by the
death of Mr. Pelham, which was not only sincerely lamented by his sovereign, but also regretted
by the nation in general, to whose affection he had powerfully recommended himself by the candour
and humanity of his conduct and character, even while he pursued measures which they did not
entirely approve. The loss of such a minister was the more deeply felt by the government at
this juncture, being the eve of a general election for a new parliament, when every administration
is supposed to exert itself with redoubled vigilance and circumspection. He had already concerted
the measures for securing a majority, and his plan was faithfully executed by his friends and
adherents, who still engrossed the administration. His brother, the duke of Newcastle, was
appointed first lord commissioner of the treasury, and succeeded as secretary of state by sir
Thomas Robinson, who had long resided as ambassador at the court of Vienna. The other department
of this office was still retained by the earl of Holdernesse, and the function of chancellor
of the exchequer was performed as usual by the lord chief-justice of the king's bench, until
a proper person could be found to fill that important office; but in the course of the summer
it was bestowed upon Mr. Legge, who acquitted himself with equal honour and capacity. Divers
other alterations were made of less importance to the public, sir George Lyttelton was appointed
cofferer, and the earl of Hillsborough comptroller of the household. Mr. George Grenville,
brother to earl Temple, became treasurer of the navy; and Mr. Charles Townshend, of whom we
shall have occasion to speak in the sequel, took his place as a commissioner at the board of
admiralty, in the room of lord Barrington, made master of the wardrobe. Lord Hardwicke, the
chancellor, was promoted to the dignity of an earl. The place of lord chief-justice of the
king's-bench becoming vacant by the death of sir William Lee, was filled with sir Dudley Ryder,
and he was succeeded by Mr. Murray in the office of attorney-general.

NEW PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED AND PROROGUED.

The elections for the new parliament generally succeeded according to the wish of the ministry;
for opposition was now dwindled down to the lowest state of imbecility. It had received a mortal
wound by the death of the late prince of Wales, whose adherents were too wise to pursue an
ignis fatuus, without any prospect of success or advantage. Some of them had prudently sung
their palinodia to the ministry, and been gratified with profitable employments; while others,
setting too great a price upon their own importance, kept aloof till the market was over, and
were left to pine in secret over their disappointed ambition. The maxims of tory-ism had been
relinquished by many, as the barren principles of a losing game; the body of the people were
conciliated to the established government; and the harmony that now, for the first time, subsisted
among all the branches of the royal family, had a wonderful effect in acquiring a degree of
popularity which they had never before enjoyed. The writs being returned, the new parliament
was opened on the last day of May by the duke of Cumberland, and some other peers, who acted
by virtue of a commission from his majesty. The commons having chosen for their speaker the
right hon. Arthur Onslow, who had honourably filled that high office in four preceding parliaments,
he was presented and approved by the commissioners. Then the lord high-chancellor harangued
both houses, giving them to understand, that his majesty had indulged them with this early
opportunity of coming together, in order to complete without loss of time certain parliamentary
proceedings, which he judged would be for the satisfaction of his good subjects; but he did
not think proper to lay before them any points of general business, reserving every thing of
that nature to the usual time of their assembling in the winter. On the fifth day of June this
short session was closed, and the parliament prorogued by the lords-commissioners.

DISPUTES IN THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

In the beginning of this year violent disputes arose between the government and the house of
commons in Ireland, on the almost forgotten subjects of privilege and prerogative. The commons
conceived they had an undoubted right to apply the surplus of their revenue towards national
purposes, without the consent of their sovereign; and accordingly, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and forty-nine, prepared a bill with this preamble, "Whereas, on the twenty-fifth
day of March last, a considerable balance remained in the hands of the vice-treasurer or receivers-general
of the kingdom, or their deputy or deputies, unapplied; and it will be for your majesty's service,
and for the ease of your faithful subjects in this kingdom, that so much thereof as can be
conveniently spared should be paid, agreeably to your majesty's most gracious intentions, in
discharge of part of the national debt." This appropriation gave great offence to the advocates
for prerogatives in England, who affirmed that the commons had no right to apply any part of
the unappropriated revenue, nor even to take any such affair into consideration, without the
previous consent of the crown, expressed in the most explicit terms. It was in consequence
of this doctrine, that the duke of Dorset, lord-lieutenant of Ireland, told them in the next
session of parliament, held in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-one, he was commanded
by the king to aquaint them, that his majesty, ever attentive to the ease and happiness of
his subjects, would graciously consent and recommend it to them, that such a part of the money
then remaining in the treasury, as should be thought consistent with the public service, be
applied towards the further reduction of the national debt. This declaration alarmed the commons,
zealous as they were for the preservation of their privileges; and in their address of thanks,
which, like that of the parliament of Great Britain, used always to echo back the words of
the speech, they made no mention of his majesty's consent; but only acknowledged his gracious
attention to their ease and happiness, in recommending to them the application of the surplus.
They accordingly resolved to apply one hundred and twenty thousand pounds of that overplus
towards the discharge of the national debt; and, in the preamble of the bill, framed for this
purpose, made no mention of his majesty's consent, though before they had acknowledged his
goodness in recommending this application. The ministry in England were highly offended at
this purposed omission, which they construed into a wilful encroachment on the prerogative;
and the bill was sent back with an alteration in the preamble, signifying his majesty's consent
as well as recommendation. The Irish house of commons being at that time deeply engaged in
a minute inquiry into the conduct of a gentleman, a servant of the crown, and a member of their
own house, accused of having misapplied a large sum of money, with which he had been intrusted
for rebuilding or repairing the barracks, were now unwilling to embroil themselves farther
with the government, until this affair should be discussed. They therefore passed the bill
with the alteration, and proceeded with their inquiry. The person was convicted of having misapplied
the public money, and ordered to make the barracks fit for the reception and accommodation
of the troops at his own expense. They did not, however, neglect to assert what they thought
their rights and privileges, when the next opportunity occurred. The duke of Dor-get, when
he opened the session of this year, repeated the expression of his majesty's gracious consent,
in mentioning the surplus of the public money. They again omitted that word in their address;
and resolved, in their bill of application, not only to sink this odious term, but likewise
to abate in their complaisance to the crown, by leaving out that expression of grateful acknowledgment,
which had met with such a cold reception above. By this time the contest had kindled up two
violent factions, and diffused a general spirit of resentment through the whole Irish nation.
The committee who prepared the bill, instead of inserting the usual compliments in the preamble,
mentioned nothing but a recital of facts, and sent it over in a very plain dress, quite destitute
of all embroidery. The ministry, intent upon vindicating the prerogative from such an unmannerly
attack, filled up the omissions of the committee, and sent it back with this alteration: "And
your majesty, ever attentive to the ease and happiness of your faithful subjects, has been
graciously pleased to signify that you would consent, and to recommend it to us, that so much
of the money remaining in your majesty's treasury as should be necessary to be applied to the
discharge of the national debt, or such part thereof as should be thought expedient by parliament."
This then being the crisis which was to determine a constitutional point of such importance,
namely, whether the people in parliament assembled have a right to deliberate upon, and vote
the application of any part of the unappropriated revenue, without the previous consent of
the crown; those who were the most zealously attached to the liberties of their country, resolved
to exert themselves in opposing what they conceived to be a violation of those liberties; and
the bill, with its alterations, was rejected by a majority of five voices. The success of their
endeavours was celebrated with the most extravagant rejoicing, as a triumph of patriotism over
the arts of ministerial corruption; and, on the other hand, all the servants of the crown,
who had joined the popular cry on this occasion, were in a little time dismissed from their
employments. The rejection of the bill was a great disappointment to the creditors of the public,
and the circulation of cash was almost stagnated. These calamities were imputed to arbitrary
designs in the government; and the people began to be inflamed with an enthusiastic spirit
of independency, which might have produced mischievous effects, had not artful steps been taken
to bring over the demagogues, and thus divert the stream of popular clamour from the ministry
to those very individuals who had been the idols of popular veneration. The speaker of the
house of commons was promoted to the dignity of an earl; and some other patriots were gratified
with lucrative employments. His majesty's letter arrived for paying off seventy-five thousand
five hundred pounds of the national debt. The circulation was thus animated, and the resentment
of the populace subsiding, the kingdom retrieved its former tranquillity.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST INDIES.

The ambition and intrigues of the French court, by which the British interest was invaded and
disturbed on the continent of America, had also extended itself to the East Indies, where they
endeavoured to embroil the English company with divers nabobs or princes, who governed different
parts of the peninsula intra Gangem. That the reader may have a clear and distinct idea of
these transactions, we shall exhibit a short sketch of the English forts and settlements in
that remote country. The first of these we shall mention is Surat, [348] [See note 2U, at the
end of this Vol.] in the province so called, situated between the twenty-first and twenty-second
degrees of north latitude; from hence the peninsula stretches into the Indian ocean as far
as the latitude of eight north, ending in a point at Cape Comorin, which is the southern extremity.
To the northward this peninsula joins to Indostan, and at its greatest breadth extends seven
hundred miles. Upon the west, east, and south, it is washed by the sea. It comprehends the
kingdoms of Malabar, Decan, Golconda, and Bisnagar, with the principalities of Gingi, Tanjaour,
and Madura. The western side is distinguished by the name of the Malabar coast: the eastern
takes the denomination of Coromandel; and in different parts of this long sweep, from Surat
round Cape Comorin to the bottom of the bay of Bengal, the English and other European powers
have, with the consent of the mogul, established forts and trading settlements. All these kingdoms,
properly speaking, belong to the mogul; but his power was so weakened by the last invasion
of Kouli Khan, that he has not been able to assert his empire over this remote country; the
tributary princes of which, and even the nabobs, who were originally governors appointed under
their authority, have rendered themselves independent, and exert an absolute dominion over
their respective territories, without acknowledging his superiority either by tribute or homage.
These princes, when they quarrel among themselves, naturally have recourse to the assistance
of such European powers as are settled in or near their dominions; and in the same manner the
East Indian companies of the European powers which happen to be at war with each other, never
fail to interest the nabobs in the dispute.

ACCOUNT OF THE ENGLISH SETTLEMENTS.

The next English settlement to Surat, on the coast of the peninsula, is Bombay, in the kingdom
of Decan, a small island, with a very convenient harbour, above five-and-forty leagues to the
south of Surat. The town is very populous; but the soil is barren, and the climate unhealthy;
and the commerce was rendered very precarious by the neighbourhood of the famous corsair Angria,
until his port of Geria was taken, and his fortifications demolished. The English company likewise
carry on some traffic at Dabul, about forty leagues further to the south, in the province of
Cuncan. In the same southerly progression, towards the point of the peninsula, we arrive at
Carwar, in the latitude of fifteen degrees, where there is a small fort and factory belonging
to the company, standing on the south side of a bay, with a river capable of receiving ships
of pretty large burden. The climate here is remarkably salubrious; the country abounds with
provisions of all sorts, and the best pepper of India grows in this neighbourhood. The next
English settlement we find at Tilli-cherry, where the company has erected a fort, to defend
their commerce of pepper and cardamomoms from the insults of the rajah, who governs this part
of Malabar. Hither the English trade was removed from Calicut, a large town that stands fifteen
leagues to the southward of Tillicherry, and was as well frequented as any port on the coast
of the Indian peninsula. The most southerly settlement which the English possess on the Malabar
coast, is that of Anjengo, between the eighth and ninth degrees of latitude. It is defended
by a regular fort, situated on a broad river, which falls into the sea, and would be very commodious
for trade, were not the water on the bar too shallow to admit ships of considerable burden.
Then turning the Cape, and passing through the strait of Chilao, formed by the island of Ceylon,
we arrive on the coast of Côromandel, which forms the eastern side of the isthmus. Prosecuting
our course in a northern direction, the first English factory we reach is that of Fort St.
David's, formerly called Tegapatan, situated in the latitude of eleven degrees forty minutes
north, within the kingdom of Gingi. It was, about six and-twenty years ago, sold by a Mahratta
prince to the East India company, and, next to Bombay, is the most considerable settlement
we have yet mentioned.*

     * The trade consists of long cloths of different colours,
     sallampores, morees, dimities, ginghams, and succations.

Its territory extends about eight miles along the coast, and half that space up to the country,
which is delightfully watered by a variety of rivers; the soil is fertile, and the climate
healthy. The fort is regular, well provided with cannon, ammunition, and a numerous garrison,
which is the more necessary, on account of the neighbourhood of the French settlement at Pon-dicherry.
But the chief settlement belonging to the company on this coast is that of Madras, or Fort
St. George, standing farther to the northward, between the thirteenth and fourteenth degrees
of latitude, and not a great way from the diamond mines of Golconda. It is seated on a flat,
barren, scorching sand, so near the sea, that in bad weather the walls are endangered by the
mighty surges rolled in from the ocean. As the soil is barren, the climate is so intensely
hot that it would be altogether uninhabitable, were not the heat mitigated by the sea breezes.
On the land side it is defended by a salt water river, which, while it contributes to the security
of the place, robs the inhabitants of one great comfort, by obstructing the springs of fresh
water. The fort is a regular square, the town surrounded with walls well mounted with artillery,
and the place, including the Black Town, is very populous. Madras, with several villages in
the neighbourhood, was purchased of the king of Golconda, before the mogul became sovereign
of this country. The governor of this place is not only president of Fort St. George, but also
of all the other settlements on the coasts of Malabar and Coromandel, as far as the island
of Sumatra. He lives in great pomp, having inferior judges, who pass sentence of death occasionally
on malefactors of any nation, except the subjects of Great Britain. All the company's affairs
are directed by him and his council, who are invested with the power of inflicting corporal
punishment, short of life and member, upon such Europeans as are in the service, and dispose
of all places of trust and profit. By virtue of an act passed in the course of this very session,
the military officers belonging to the company were permitted to hold courts-martial, and punish
their soldiers according to the degree of their delinquency. In a word, Madras is of the utmost
importance to the company for its strength, wealth, and the great returns it makes in calicoes
and muslins. Towards the latter end of the last century, the English company had a flourishing
factory at Masulipatam, standing on the north side of the river Nagundi, which separates the
provinces of Golconda and Bisnagar, in the latitude of sixteen degrees and thirty minutes;
but now there is no European settlement here, except a Dutch factory, maintained for carrying
on the chintz commerce. At Visgapatam, situated still farther to the northward, the English
possess a factory regularly fortified on the side of the river, which, however, a dangerous
bar has rendered unfit for navigation. The adjacent country affords cotton cloths, and the
best stripped muslins of India. It is chiefly for the use of this settlement that the company
maintains a factory at Ganjam, the most eastern town in the province or kingdom of Golconda,
situated in a country abounding with rice and sugar-canes. Still farther to the north coast,
in the latitude of twenty-two degrees, the company maintains a factory at Balasore, which was
formerly very considerable; but hath been of very little consequence since the navigation of
the river Huguely Avas improved. At this place every European ship bound for Bengal and the
Ganges takes in a pilot. The climate is not counted very salubrious; but the adjacent country
is fruitful to admiration, and here are considerable manufacture of cotton and silk. Without
skilful pilots, the English would find it very difficult to navigate the different channels
through which the river Ganges discharges itself into the sea at the bottom of the bay of Bengal.
On the southern branch is a town called Pepely, where there was formerly an English factory,
but this was removed to Huguely, one hundred and sixty miles farther up the river; a place
which, together with the company's settlement at Calcutta, were the emporiums of their commerce
for the whole kingdom of Bengal. Indeed Huguely is now abandoned by the English, and their
whole trade centers at Calcutta or Fort William, which is a regular fortification, containing
lodgings for the factors and writers, store-houses for the company's merchandise, and magazines
for their ammunition. As for the governor's house, which likewise stands within the fort, it
is one of the most regular structures in all India. Besides these settlements along the sea-coast
of the peninsula, and on the banks of the Ganges, the English East India company possess certain
inland fac tories and posts for the convenience and defence of their commerce, either purchased
of the nabobs and rajahs, or conquered in the course of the war. As the operations we propose
to record were confined to the coasts of Malabar and Coromandel, or the interior countries
which form the peninsula intra Gangem, it will be unnecessary to describe the factory at Bencoolen,
on the island of Sumatra, or any settlement which the English possess in other parts of the
East Indies.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DISPUTE ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT OF ARCOT.

In order to understand the military transactions of the English company in India, the reader
will take notice, that immediately after the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle, mons. Dupleix, who commanded
for the French in that country, began by his intrigues to sow the seeds of dissension among
the nabobs, that he might be the better able to fish in troubled waters. Nizam Almuluck, the
mogul's viceroy of Decan, having the right of nominating a governor of the Carnatic, now more
generally known by the name of the nabob of Arcot, appointed Anaverdy Khan to that office,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and forty-five. The viceroy dying, was succeeded in
his viceroyalty, or subaship, by his second son Nazirzing, whom the mogul confirmed. He was
opposed in his pretensions by his own cousin Muzapherzing, who had recourse to the assistance
of M. Dupleix, and obtained from him a reinforcement of Europeans and artillery, in consideration
of many presents and promises, which he fulfilled in the sequel. Thus reinforced, and joined
by one Chunda Saib, an active Indian chief, he took the field against his kinsman Nazirzing,
who was supported by a body of English troops under colonel Laurence. The French, dreading
an engagement, retired in the night; and Muzapherzing, seeing himself abandoned by all his
own troops, appealed to the clemency of his cousin, who spared his life, but detained him as
a state prisoner. In this situation, he formed a conspiracy against his kinsman's life, with
Nazirzing's prime minister, and the nabobs of Cadupab and Condaneor, then in his camp; and
the conspirators were encouraged in their scheme by Dupleix and Chunda Saib, who had retired
to Pondicherry. Thus stimulated, they murdered Nazirzing in his camp, and proclaimed Muzapherzing
viceroy of Decan. In the tents of the murdered viceroy they found an immense treasure, of which
a great share fell to M. Dupleix, whom Muzapherzing the usurper at this time associated in
the government. By virtue of this association, the Frenchman assumed the state and formalities
of an eastern prince; and he and his colleague Muzapherzing appointed Chunda Saib nabob of
Arcot; Anaverdy Khan, the late nabob, had been, in the year one thousand seven hundred and
forty-nine, defeated and slain by Muzapherzing and Chunda Saib, with the assistance of their
French auxiliaries; and his son Mahommed Ali Khan had put himself under the protection of the
English at Madras, and was confirmed by Nazirzing, as his father's successor in the nabobship,
or government of Arcot. This government, therefore, was disputed between Mahommed Ali Khan,
appointed by the legal viceroy Nazirzing, supported by the English company, and Chunda Saib,
nominated by the usurper Muzapherzing, and protected by Dupleix, who commanded at Pondicherry.
Muzapherzing did not long survive his usurpation. In the year one thousand seven hundred and
fifty-one, the same nabobs who had promoted him to his kinsman's place, thinking themselves
ill rewarded for their services, fell upon him suddenly, routed his troops, and put him to
death: and next day the chiefs of the army proclaimed Sallabatzing, brother to Nazirzing, viceroy
of Decan; on the other hand, the mogul appointed Gauzedy Khan, who was the elder brother of
Sallabatzing; and this prince confirmed Mahommed Ali Khan in the government of Arcot; but the
affairs of the mogul's court were then in such confusion, that he could not spare an army to
support the nomination he had made. Chunda Saib, nabob of Arcot, having been deposed by the
great mogul, who placed Anaverdy Khan in his room, ha resolved to recover his government by
force, and had recourse to the French general at Pondicherry, who reinforced him with two thousand
sepoys, or soldiers of the country, sixty caffrees, and four hundred and twenty French troops,
on condition that, if he proved successful in his enterprise, he should cede to the French
the town of Velur, in the neighbourhood of Pondicherry, with its dependencies, consisting of
forty-five villages. Thus reinforced, he defeated his rival Anaverdy Khan, who lost his life
in the engagement, reassumed the government of Arcot, and punctually performed the conditions
which had been stipulated by his French allies.

MAHOMMED ALI KHAN SUPPORTED BY THE ENGLISH.

Mahommed Ali Khan, at the death of his father, had fled to Tiruchirapalli,* and solicited the
assistance of the English, who favoured him with a reinforcement of money, men, and ammunition,
under the conduct of major Laurence, a brave and experienced officer.

     * Tiruchirapalli, commonly called Triehinoply, situated near
     tha river Cauveri, above two hundred miles to the southward
     of Madras, is the capital of a small kingdom belonging to
     the government of Arcot, and hounded on the east by the
     kingdom of Tanjore.

By dint of this supply, he gained some advantages over the enemy, who were obliged to retreat;
but no decisive blow was given. Mahommed afterwards repaired in person to fort St. David's,
to demand more powerful succours, alleging that his fate was connected with the interest of
the English company, which in time would be obliged to abandon the whole coast, should they
allow the enemy to proceed in their conquests. In consequence of these representations, he
received another strong reinforcement, under the command of captain Cope; but nothing of importance
was attempted, and the English auxiliaries retired. Then Mahommed was attacked by the enemy,
who obtained a complete victory over him. Finding it impossible to maintain his footing by
his own strength, he entered into a close alliance with the English, and ceded to them some
commercial points which had been long in dispute. Then they detached captain Cope to put Tiruchirapalli
in a posture of defence; while captain de Gingins, a Swiss officer, marched at the head of
four hundred Europeans to the nabob's assistance. The two armies being pretty equal in strength,
lay encamped in sight of each other a whole month; during which nothing happened but a few
skirmishes, which generally terminated to the advantage of the English auxiliaries. In order
to make a diversion, and divide the French forces, the company resolved to send a detachment
into the province of Arcot; and this was one of the first occasions upon which the extraordinary
talents of Mr. Clive were displayed. He had entered into the service of the East India company
as a writer, and Avas considered as a person very indifferently qualified for succeeding in
any civil station of life. He now offered his service in a military capacity, and actually
began his march to Arcot, at the head of two hundred and ten Europeans, with five hundred sepoys.*

     * The sepoys are the mercenaries of the country, who are
     hired as soldiers occasionally by all parties.

MR. CLIVE TAKES ARCOT.

Such was the resolution, secrecy, and despatch, with which he conducted this enterprise, that
the enemy knew nothing of his motions until he was in possession of the capital, which he took
without opposition. The inhabitants, expecting to be plundered, offered him a large sum to
spare their city; but they derived their security from the generosity and discretion of the
conqueror. He refused the proffered ransom, and issued a proclamation, intimating, that those
who were willing to remain in their houses should be protected from insult and injury, and
the rest have leave to retire with all their effects, except provisions, for which he promised
to pay the full value. By this sage conduct he conciliated the affection of the people so entirely,
that even those who quitted the place supplied him with exact intelligence of the enemy's designs,
when he was besieged in the sequel. The town was in a little time invested by Rajah Saib, son
of Chunda Saib, at the head of a numerous army, and the operations of the siege were conducted
by European engineers. Though their approaches were retarded by the repeated and resolute sallies
of Mr. Clive, they at length effected two breaches supposed to be practicable; and on the fourteenth
day of October, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-one, gave a general assault.
Mr. Clive, having received intimation of their design, had made such preparations for their
reception, that they were repulsed in every quarter with great loss, and obliged to raise the
siege with the utmost precipitation.

This gallant Englishman, not contented with the reputation he had acquired from his noble defence,
was no sooner reinforced by a detachment under captain Kirkpatrick from Trichinopoly, than
he marched in pursuit of the enemy, whom he overtook in the plains of Arani. There, on the
third day of December, he attacked them with irresistible impetuosity; and, after an obstinate
dispute, obtained a complete victory at a very small expense. The forts of Timery, Caujeveram,
and Arani, surrendered to the terror of his name, rather than to the force of his arms; and
he returned to Fort St. David's in triumph. He had enjoyed a very few weeks of repose, when
he was summoned to the field by fresh incursions of the enemy. In the beginning of the year
one thousand seven hundred and fifty-two, he marched with a small detachment to Madras, where
he was joined by a reinforcement from Bengal, the whole number not exceeding three hundred
Europeans, and assembled a body of the natives, that he might have at least the appearance
of an army. With these he proceeded to Koveripauk, about fifteen miles from Ar-cot, where he
found the French and Indians, consisting of fifteen hundred sepoys, seventeen hundred horse,
a body of natives, and one hundred and fifty Europeans, with eight pieces of cannon. Though
they were advantageously posted and intrenched, and the day was already far advanced, Mr. Clive
advanced against them with his usual intrepidity; but the victory remained for some time in
suspense. It was now dark, and the battle doubtful, when Mr. Clive sent round a detachment
to fall in the rear of the French battery. This attack was executed with great resolution,
while the English in front entered the entrenchments with their bayonets fixed; and, though
very little tinctured with discipline, displayed the spirit and activity of hardy veterans.
This double attack disconcerted the enemy in such a manner, that they soon desisted from all
opposition. A considerable carnage ensued; yet the greater part of the enemy, both horse and
foot, saved themselves by flight, under cover of the darkness. The French, to a man, threw
down their arms, and surrendered themselves prisoners of war; and all the cannon and baggage
fell into the hands of the victor.

MR. CLIVE REDUCES THREE FORTS, &c.

The province of Arcot being thus cleared of the enemy, Mr. Clive with his forces returned to
Fort St. David's, where he found major Laurence just arrived from England,* to take upon him
the command of the troops in the company's service.

     * Major Laurence had sailed for England in the year 1750.

On the eighteenth day of March, this officer, accompanied by Mr. Clive, took the field, and
was joined by captain de Gingins at Tiruchirapalli. From hence he detached Mr. Clive with four
hundred European soldiers, a few Mahratta horse, and a body of sepoys, to cut off the enemy's
retreat to Pondicherry. In the course of this expedition he dislodged a strong body of the
foe posted at Samiaveram, and obliged Chunda Saib to throw a body of troops into a strong fortified
temple, or pagoda, upon the river Koleroon, which was immediately invested. The commanding
officer, in attempting to escape, was slain with some others, and the rest surrendered at discretion.
They were still in possession of another fortified temple, which he also besieged in form,
and reduced by capitulation. Having subdued these forts, he marched directly to Volconda, whither
he understood the French commander d'Anteuil had retired. He found that officer intrenched
in a village, from whence he drove him with precipitation, and made himself master of the French
cannon. The enemy attempted to save themselves in a neighbouring fort; but the gates being
shut against them by the governor, who was apprehensive that they would be followed pell-mell
by the English, Mr. Clive attacked them with great fury, and made a considerable slaughter;
but his humanity being shocked at this carnage, he sent a flag of truce to the vanquished,
with terms of capitulation, which they readily embraced. These articles imported, that D'Anteuil,
and three other officers, should remain prisoners on parole for one year; that the garrison
should be exchanged, and the money and stores be delivered to the nabob whom the English supported.

CHUNDA SAIB TAKEN AND PUT TO DEATH.

During these transactions, Chunda Saib lay encamped with an army of thirty thousand men at
Syrinham, an island in the neighbourhood of Tiruchirapalli, which he longed eagerly to possess.
Hither major Laurence marched with his Indian allies,* and took his measures so well, that
the enemy's provisions were entirely intercepted.

     * His army consisted of twelve hundred Europeans and
     Topasses in battalions, two thousand sepoys, with the forces
     of the nabob, the kings of Tanjore, Muissack, and the
     Mahrattas; amounting to fifteen hundred horse and ten
     thousand infantry. Topasses are descendants from the
     Portuguese. The Mahrattas are native Indians of a very
     numerous and powerful nation, which hath more than once
     given law to the mogul.

Chunda Saib, in attempting to fly, was taken prisoner by the nabob of Tanjore, an ally of the
English company, who ordered his head to be struck off, in order to prevent the disputes which
otherwise would have arisen among the captors. *

     * Chunda Saib demanded leave of the Tanjore general to pass
     through his camp to Tanjore, and this request was granted;
     but instead of being allowed to pass, he was detained
     prisoner, and as the allies could not agree about the manner
     in which he should be disposed of, some of the Tanjore
     officers, of their own accord, ended the dispute by cutting
     off his head.

The main body of the army being attacked by major Laurence, and totally defeated, the island
of Syrinham was surrendered, and about a thousand European French soldiers, under the command
of Mr. Law, nephew to the famous Law who schemed the Mississippi company, fell into the hands
of the conquerors, including thirty officers, with forty pieces of cannon, and ten mortars.
M. Dupleix, though exceedingly mortified by this disaster, resolved to maintain the cause which
he had espoused. He proclaimed Rajah Saib, the son of Chunda Saib, nabob of Arcot; and afterwards
pretended that he himself had received from the mogul sanids or commissions, appointing him
governor of all the Carnatic, from the river Kristnah to the sea; but these sanids appeared
in the sequel to be forged. In order to complete the comedy, a supposed messenger from Delhi
was received at Pondicherry as ambassador from the mogul. Dupleix, mounted on an elephant,
preceded by music and dancing women, in the oriental manner, received in public his commission
from the hands of the pretended ambassador. He affected the eastern state, kept his Durbar
or court, where he appeared sitting cross-legged on a sofa, and received presents as prince
of the country from his own council, as well as from the natives. In the meantime, hostilities
continued between the forces of the two companies, as auxiliaries to the contending nabobs.
The English, under major Kinnier, made an unsuccessful attempt upon Gingee, a strong town situated
to the west of Pondicherry. Major Laurence defeated a strong body of French and natives, commanded
by Dupleix's nephew, M. de Kerjean, in the neighbourhood of Pondicherry, and took him prisoner,
together with fifteen officers; after this success, Mr. Clive reduced the forts of Cove-long
and Chengalput, the last very strong, situated about forty miles to the southward of Madras.
On the other hand, M. Dupleix intercepted at sea captain Schaub, with his whole Swiss company,
whom he detained prisoners at Pondicherry, although the two nations were not at war with each
other. During these transactions, Sallabatzing, with a body of French under M. de Bussy, advanced
towards Aurengabad, which was the seat of government; but he was opposed by a chief of the
Mahrattas, at the head of a numerous army. In the meantime, Gauzedy Khan, the elder brother
of Sallabatzing, whom the mogul had appointed viceroy of Decan, took possession of his government
at Aurengabad, where, in fourteen days after his arrival, he was poisoned by his own sister.
The mogul immediately appointed his son Schah Abadin Khan to succeed his father; and this prince
actually raised an army to come and take possession; but the mogul's affairs requiring his
presence at Delhi, he was obliged to postpone his design, so that Sallabatzing was left without
a competitor, and made a present to the French of all the English settlements to the northward.
Thus concluded the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-two. Next campaign was chiefly
confined to the neighbourhood of Trichinopoly, where major Laurence made several vigorous attacks
upon the enemy's army, and obtained many advantages; which, however, did not prove decisive,
because he was so much out-numbered that he could never follow his blow.

CONVENTION BETWEEN THE EAST INDIA COMPANIES OF ENGLAND AND FRANCE.

In the course of this year, the mogul was deposed by his general Schah Abadin Khan, the viceroy
of Decan, who raised to the throne Allum Geer, another prince of the blood. In the succeeding
year, a negotiation was Bet on foot by Mr. Saunders, governor of Madras, and M. Dupleix; and
conferences were opened at Sadrass, a Dutch settlement between Pondicherry and Fort St. George;
but this proved abortive; and many other gallant efforts were made by major Laurence in the
territory of Trichinopoly, which still continued to be the scene of action. In the course of
this year admiral Watson arrived on the coast of Coromandel with a squadron of ships of war,
having on board a regiment commanded by colonel Aldercroon; at the same time the ships from
France brought over to Pondicherry the sieur Godeheu, commissary-general and governor-general
of all their settlements, at whose arrival Dupleix departed for Europe. The new governor immediately
wrote a letter to Mr. Saunders, professing the most pacific inclinations, and proposing a suspension
of arms between the two companies until their disputes could be amicably adjusted. This proposal
was very agreeable to the governor and council at Madras, and a cessation of arms actually
took place in the month of October, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-four.
Deputies being sent to Pondicherry, a provisional treaty and truce were concluded, on condition
that neither of the two companies should for the future interfere in any difference that might
arise between the princes of the country. The other articles related to the places and settlements
that should be retained or possessed by the respective companies, until fresh orders relating
to this agreement should arrive from the courts of London and Versailles, transmitted by the
two East India companies of France and England. Until such orders should arrive, it was stipulated
that neither nation should be allowed to procure any new grant or cession, or to build forts
for the defence of new establishments; and that they should not proceed to any cession, retrocession,
or evacuation of what they then possessed; but every thing should remain on the footing of
uti possidetis. How pacific soever the sentiments of the French subjects might have been at
this period in the East Indies, certain it is, the designs of the French governors in America
were altogether hostile, and their conduct hastening towards a rupture, which kindled up a
bloody war in every division of the globe.

GENERAL VIEW OF THE BRITISH COLONIES IN NORTH AMERICA.

As this war may be termed a native of America, and the principal scenes of it were acted on
that continent, we shall, for the information of the reader, sketch out the situation of the
then British colonies as they bordered on each other, and extended along the sea coast, from
the gulf of St. Lawrence as far south as the country of Florida. We shall enumerate the Indian
nations that lie scattered about their confines, and delineate the manner in which the French
hemmed them in by a surprising line of fortifications. Should we comprehend Hudson's Bay, with
the adjacent countries, and the banks of Newfoundland, in this geographical detail, we might
affirm that Great Britain at that time possessed a territory along the sea-coast, extending
seventeen hundred miles in a direct line, from the sixtieth to the thirty-first degree of northern
latitude; but as these two countries were not concerned in this dispute, we shall advance from
the northward to the southern side of the gulf of St. Lawrence; and beginning with Acadia or
Nova Scotia, describe our settlements as they lie in a southerly direction, as far as the gulf
of Florida. This great tract of country, stretching fifteen degrees of latitude, is washed
on the east by the Atlantic Ocean; the southern boundary is Spanish Florida; but to the westward
the limits are uncertain, some affirming that the jurisdiction of the colonies penetrates through
the whole continent, as far as the South Sea; while others, with more moderation, think they
are naturally bounded by the river Illinois that runs into the Mississippi, and in a manner
connects that river with the chain of lakes known by the names of Michigan, Huron, Erie, and
Ontario, the three first communicating with each other, and the last discharging itself into
the river St. Lawrence, which, running by Montreal and Quebec, issues into the bay of the same
denomination, forming the northern boundary of Nova Scotia. The French, who had no legal claim
to any lands on the south side of this river, nevertheless, with an insolence of ambition peculiar
to themselves, not only extended their forts from the source of the St. Lawrence, through an
immense tract of that country, as far as the Mississippi, which disembogues itself into the
gulf of Florida; but also, by a series of unparalleled encroachments, endeavoured to contract
the English colonies within such narrow limits as would have cut off almost one half of their
possessions. As we have already given a geographical description of Nova Scotia, and mentioned
the particulars of the new settlement of Halifax, we shall now only observe, that it is surrounded
on three sides by the sea, the gulf, and river of St. Lawrence; that its original boundary
to the west was the river Pentagoet; but it is now contracted within the river St. Croix, because
the crown of Great Britain did, in the year one thousand six hundred and sixty-three, grant
to the duke of York the territory of Sagadahack, stretching from St. Croix to the river of
this name; which was in the sequel, by an express charter from the crown, annexed to the province
of Massachusett's Bay, one of the four governments of New England. This country, situated next
to Nova Scotia, lies between the forty-first and forty-fifth degrees of north latitude, extending
near three hundred miles in length, and about two hundred in breadth, if we bound it by those
tracts which the French possessed: no part of the settlements of this country, however, stretches
above sixty miles from the sea. The summer is here intensely hot, and the winter proportionably
severe; nevertheless, the climate is healthy, and the sky generally serene. The soil is not
favourable to any of the European kinds of grain; but produces great plenty of maize, which
the people bake into bread, and brew into beer, though their favourite drink is made of molasses
hopped, and impregnated with the tops of the spruce-fir, which is a native of this country.
The ground raises good flax and tolerable hemp. Here are great herds of black cattle, some
of them very large in size, a vast number of excellent hogs, a breed of small horses, graceful,
swift, and hardy; and large flocks of sheep, whose wool, though not so fine as that of England,
is manufactured with great success.

New England is composed of the four provinces known by the names of New Hampshire, Massachusetts
Bay, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. It is bounded on the south by New York, extending northerly
on both sides of the river Hudson, about two hundred miles into the country possessed by the
Indians of the Five Nations, whom the French distinguish by the name of the Irroquois; but
in breadth this province does not exceed fifty miles, though it comprehends Long Island, lying
to the southward of Connecticut. The capital, which derives from the province the name of New
York, is situated on an excellent harbour in the island of Manahatton, extending fourteen miles
in length, and five in breadth, at the mouth of the noble river Hudson, which is navigable
for above two hundred miles. At the distance of one hundred and fifty miles from New York,
stands the town of Albany, upon the same river. In this place all the treaties and other transactions
were negotiated between the English and the Irroquois, a confederacy of five Indian nations,
who, by their union, courage, and military skill, had reduced a great number of other Indian
tribes, and subdued a territory more extensive than the whole kingdom of France. They were
about fourscore years ago able to bring ten thousand warriors into the field; but now their
number is so greatly diminished by wars, epidemical diseases, and the use of spirituous liquors,
that they cannot raise above fifteen hundred men, even though they have admitted into their
confederacy the nation of the Tuscaroras, whom the English drove from the confines of Carolina.
The Mohawk Indians inhabit the country advanced from Albany. The northern extremities of New
Hampshire and New York are divided by the lakes Champlain and Sacrament, between which the
French had raised the fort of Crown Point.

Contiguous to New York, and lying along the coast, in a southerly direction, is the small province
of New Jersey, bounded on the west by the river Delaware, which divides it from Pennsylvania,
extending about one hundred and fifty miles in length, but in breadth not more than one third
of that extent. The climate, soil, and produce of these two provinces, as well as of Pennsylvania,
are similar. They yield great quantities of grain, sheep, horses, hogs, and horned cattle;
all kinds of poultry and game in great abundance; vegetables of every sort in perfection, and
excellent fruit, particularly peaches and melons. Their vast forests abound with oak, ash,
beech, chesnut, cedar, walnut-tree, cypress, hickory, sassafras, and pine; but the timber is
not counted so fit for shipping as that of New England and Nova Scotia. These provinces produce
great quantities of flax and hemp. New York affords mines of iron, and very rich copper ore
is found in New Jersey.

Pennsylvania, lying to the southward of New York and New Jersey, is bounded on the other side
by Maryland, stretching two hundred and fifty miles in length, two hundred in breadth, and
having no communication with the sea, except by the mouth of the river Delaware. This province
was originally settled by Quakers, under the auspices of the celebrated William Penn, whose
descendants are still proprietaries of the country. Philadelphia, the capital, stands on a
tongue of land at the confluence of the two navigable rivers, the Delaware and Sculkel, disposed
in the form of a regular oblong, and designed by the original plan to extend from the one to
the other. The streets, which are broad, spacious, and uniform, cross each other at right angles,
leaving proper spaces for churches, markets, and other public edifices. The houses are neatly
built of brick, the quays spacious and magnificent, the warehouses large and numerous, and
the docks commodious and well contrived for ship building. Pennsylvania is understood to extend
as far northerly as the banks of the lake Erie, where the French erected a fort. They also
raised another at some distance to the southward of the Riviere-au-Beuf, and made other encroachments
on this colony.

Adjoining to part of Pennsylvania, on the sea-coast, lies the province of Maryland, a tract
of land situated along the bay of Chesapeak, in length about one hundred and forty miles, and
nearly of the same breadth, bounded on the north by Pennsylvania, on the east by the Atlantic
Ocean, and by the river Potowmack on the south. This country was first planted with Roman catholics
by lord Baltimore, to whom Charles II. granted it by patent. In the sequel, however, people
of all religions were admitted into this settlement, and indulged with liberty of conscience,
and at present the reigning religion is that of the English church. The climate is very sultry
in summer, and not very salubrious. The soil is fruitful, and produces a great quantity of
tobacca, which the people cultivate as their staple commodity. The seat of government is established
at Annapolis, a small town beautifully situated on the river Patuxent.

Tracing the sea-coast still southerly, the next settlement is Virginia, watered on the north
by the river Potowmack, which is the boundary between this and the colony last described, having
the bay of Chesapeak to the east, bounded on the south by Carolina, and extending westward
without any prescribed limits, though the plantations have reached no farther than the great
Allegany mountains; so that the province, as now possessed, stretches in length above two hundred
and forty miles, and in breadth not above two hundred, lying between the fifty-fifth and fortieth
degrees of latitude. In sailing to Virginia, navigators steer through a strait formed by two
points, called the Capes, into the bay of Chesapeak, a large inlet that runs three hundred
miles into the country from south to north, covered from the Atlantic Ocean by the eastern
side of Maryland, and a small portion of Virginia on the same peninsula. This noble bay is
about eighteen miles broad for a considerable space, and seven at its narrowest part, yielding
generally nine fathoms depth of water; on both sides it receives many navigable rivers, those
on the Virginia side being known by the names of James River, York River, the Rappahannock,
and Potowmack. This country, especially towards the sea, lies very low and swampy, and the
soil is extremely fertile. The air and weather are variable, the heats of summer excessive,
the frosts of winter sudden, and intensely cold; so that, upon the whole, the climate is neither
very agreeable nor healthy, the people being particularly subject to agues and pleuritic disorders.
The province abounds with vast forests of timber; the plains are covered with a surprising
luxuriancy of vegetables, flowers, and flowering shrubs, diffusing the most delicious fragrance.
The ground yields plenty of corn, and every sort of fruit in great abundance and perfection.
Horned cattle and hogs have here multiplied to admiration, since they were first imported from
Europe. The animals, natives of this and the neighbouring countries, are deer, panthers or
tigers, bears, wolves, foxes, squirrels, racoons, and creatures called opossums, with an infinite
variety of beautiful birds, and a diversity of serpents, among which the rattlesnake is the
most remarkable.

Virginia is bounded to the south by the two Carolinas, situated between the forty-sixth and
thirty-first degrees of latitude; the length amounting to upwards of four hundred miles, and
the breadth extending near three hundred, as far as the Indian nations called the Catawbas,
the Creeks, and Cherokees. The country of Carolina is divided into two governments, of which
the most northern is the most inconsiderable. The climate in both is the same, as well as the
soil: the first is warm, though not unhealthy; the last extremely fertile, yielding every thing
in plenty which is produced in Virginia, besides abundance of excellent oranges, and some commodities
which are not found to the northward. North Carolina, though not so opulent, is more populous
than the southern part. The colonists of North Carolina carry on a considerable traffic in
tar, pitch, turpentine, staves, shingles, lumber, corn, peas, pork, and beef; tobacco, deer
skins, indigo, wheat, rice, bee's-wax, tallow, bacon, and hog's-lard, cotton, and squared timber;
live cattle, with the skins of beaver, racoon, fox, minx, wild-cat, and otter. South Carolina
is much better cultivated; the people are more civilized, and the commerce more important.
The capital of this province, called Charles Town, is finely situated at the confluence of
two navigable rivers, having the advantage of a commodious harbour. Their trade, exclusive
of the articles we have already mentioned as common to this government and that of North Carolina,
consists of two chief staple commodities, rice and indigo, which they cultivate with great
success; and they have likewise made some progress in the culture of silk.

The most southern of all our settlements on this coast is Georgia, extending about sixty miles
from north to South, along the sea-shore; but widening in the inland parts to above one hundred
and fifty, and stretching almost three hundred from the sea to the Apalachian mountains. This
country differs very little from that of South Carolina, with which it borders; yet the summer
is here more hot, and the soil not so fertile. Savannah, the capital, stands commodiously for
trade, about ten miles from the sea, on a river of the same name, navigable with large boats
two hundred miles farther up to the second town called Augusta, a place that flourishes by
the Indian trade of skins, which the inhabitants carry on with their neighbours the Creeks,
the Chickesaws, and the Cherokees, who are the most numerous and powerful tribes in America.
Georgia is bounded on the south by the river Attamaha, at no great distance from the Spanish
fort of St. Augustine.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE FRENCH SURPRISE LOG'S TOWN.

Having thus exhibited a succinct view of the British colonies in North America, for the information
of the reader, we shall now resume the thread of our history, and particularize the transactions
by which the present year was distinguished on this extensive continent. The government of
England having received nothing but evasive answers from the court of France, touching the
complaints that were made of the encroachments in America, despatched orders to all the governors
of that country to repel force by force, and drive the French from their settlements on the
river Ohio. Accordingly, the provinces of Virginia and Pennsylvania took this important affair
into their consideration; but while they deliberated, the French vigorously prosecuted their
designs on the other side of the mountains. They surprised Log's Town, which the Virginians
had built upon the Ohio; made themselves masters of the Block-house and Truck-house, where
they found skins and other commodities to the amount of twenty thousand pounds, and destroyed
all the British traders, except two who found means to escape. At the same time, M. de Contrecour,
with a thousand men and eighteen pieces of cannon, arrived in three hundred canoes from Venango,
a fort they had raised on the banks of the Ohio, and reduced by surprise a British fort which
the Virginians had built on the forks of the Monangahela, that runs into the same river.

CONFERENCE WITH THE INDIANS.

These hostilities were followed by divers skirmishes between the people of the two nations,
which were fought with various success. At length the governors of the English settlements
received orders from England to form a political confederacy for their mutual defence; and
the governor of New York was directed to confer with the chiefs of the Six Nations, with a
view to detach them from the French interest by dint of promises and presents of value, sent
over for that purpose. A congress was accordingly appointed at Albany, to which place the governor
of New York repaired, accompanied by commissioners from all the other British settlements;
but a very small number of Indians arrived, and even these seemed to be indifferent to the
advances and exhortations that were made by the English orator. The truth is, the French had
artfully weaned them from their attachment to the subjects of Great Britain. Nevertheless,
they accepted the presents, renewed their treaties with the king of England, and even demanded
his assistance in driving the French from the posts and possessions they had usurped within
the Indian territories. It was in consequence of the measures here taken, that colonel Washington
was detached from Virginia with four hundred men, and occupied a post on the banks of the river
Ohio, where he threw up some works, and erected a kind of occasional fort, in hopes of being
able to defend himself in that situation, until he should be joined by a reinforcement from
New York, which, how ever, did not arrive.

COLONEL WASHINGTON DEFEATED AND TAKEN BY THE FRENCH.

While he remained in this situation, de Viller, a French commander, at the head of nine hundred
men, being on his march to dislodge Washington, detached one Jamonville, an inferior officer,
with a small party, and a formal summons to colonel Washington, requiring him to quit the fort,
which he pretended was built on ground belonging to the French, or their allies. So little
regard was paid to this intimation, that the English fell upon this party, and, as the French
affirm, without the least provocation, either slew or took the whole detachment. De Viller,
incensed at these unprovoked hostilities, marched up to the attack, which Washington for some
time sustained under manifold disadvantages. At length, however, he surrendered the fort upon
capitulation, for the performance of which he left two officers as hostages in the hands of
the French; and in his retreat was terribly harassed by the Indians, who plundered his baggage,
and massacred his people. This event was no sooner known in England, than the British ambassador
at Paris received directions to complain of it to the French ministry, as an open violation
of the peace; but this representation had no effect.

DIVISIONS AMONG THE BRITISH COLONIES.

Both nations by this time foresaw that a rupture would be inevitable, and each resolved to
make suitable preparations. France continued to send reinforcements of men, and supplies of
ammunition to Quebec, for the prosecution of her ambitious projects; and the ministry of Great
Britain transmitted salutary cautions to the governors of the provinces in North America, exhorting
them to join their endeavours for repelling the incursions of the enemy. Such an union as seemed
necessary for their common preservation was not easily effected. The different colonies were
divided by different views and interests, both religious and political; besides, every settlement
was distracted into factions, formed by the governor and the demagogues of the assembly; in
other words, an opposition like that in parliament, and a continual struggle between the liberties
of the people and the prerogative of the proprietor, whether sovereign or subject. Mr. Dinwiddie,
governor of Virginia, having demanded a certain perquisite or fee for every patent he should
pass for land, the assembly voted his demand illegal, arbitrary, and oppressive. They declared
that every man who paid it should be deemed an enemy to his country, and sent over an agent
to London to solicit the suppression of this imposition. The representatives of the people
in Pennsylvania wasted the time in vain deliberations and violent disputes with their proprietors,
while the enemy infested their frontiers. The colony of New York was filled with discontent
and animosity. Sir Danvers Osborn, who had been appointed governor of this province, died immediately
after his arrival at New York, and the instructions he had received were exposed to public
censure. The preamble inveighed severely against the want of duty, allegiance, loyalty, and
unanimity, which had lately appeared so notorious in the assembly of that province, who had
violated the royal commission and instructions, by assuming to themselves the power to dispose
of public money in the laws which they had occasionally passed. This gentleman was, therefore,
directed to insist upon the reformation of all those public abuses, and upon the establishment
of a certain supply for the service of the government, as well as upon the settlement of a
salary for himself. Moreover, his majesty, in these instructions, signified his will and pleasure,
that all money raised for the supply and support of government, or upon any emergency for immediate
service, should be disposed of and applied properly to the use for which it might be granted,
by warrant from the governor, by and with the advice and consent of the council of the province,
and no otherwise; that, nevertheless, the assembly should be permitted, from time to time,
to view and examine the accounts of money disposed of, by virtue of laws which they had enacted;
that if any member of the council, or officer holding place of trust or profit within the government,
should, in any manner whatever, give his assent to, or in anywise advise or concur with the
assembly in passing any act or vote, whereby the royal prerogative might be lessened or impaired,
or any money be raised or disposed of for the public service, contrary to, or inconsistent
with, the method prescribed by these instructions, the governor should forthwith remove or
suspend such counsellor or officer so offending, and give an immediate account of his proceedings
to the commissioners of trade and plantations. These were peremptory injunctions, which plainly
proved that the ministry was determined to support the prerogative with a high hand; but it
must be owned, at the same time, that abundance of provocation had been given by the insolent
opposition of some turbulent individuals, who had exerted all their influence in disturbing
and distressing the views and designs of the government. While the British colonies in America
were, by these divisions, in a great measure disabled from making vigorous efforts against
the common enemy, the administration at home began to exert itself for their defence.. Officers
were appointed for two regiments, consisting of two battalions each, to be raised in America,
and commanded by sir William Pepperel and governor Shirley, who had enjoyed the same command
in the last war, and a body of troops was destined for the same service.

HEREDITARY PRINCE OF HESSE-CASSEL PROFESSES THE CATHOLIC RELIGION.

The most remarkable incident that marked this year on the continent of Europe, was the conversion
of the hereditary prince of Hesse-Cassel, who had espoused the princess Mary of England. He
now declared himself a Roman-catholic, and was supposed to have been cajoled to this profession
by the promises of certain powers, who flattered his ambition, in order to weaken the protestant
interest in Germany. His father, though deeply affected by his son's apostacy, did not fail
to take immediate measures for preventing the evil consequences which might otherwise have
flowed from his defection. He forthwith, assembled the states of the landgraviate, in order
to take such measures as might appear necessary to maintain the religion, laws, and constitution
of the country; and the prince was laid under certain restrictions, which he did not find it
an easy task to set aside. It was enacted, that when the regency should devolve to him by succession,
he should not have it in his power to alter the established laws, or grant any church to persons
of the Roman communion, for the public exercise of their religion; and that he should be excluded
from all share in the education of his sons, the eldest of whom should be put in possession
of the country of Hanau upon his father's accession to the regency of the landgraviate. These
resolutions were guaranteed by the kings of Prussia and Denmark, by the maritime powers, and
the evangelic body of the empire.

PARLIAMENT OF PARIS RECALLED FROM EXILE.

The exile of the parliament of Paris, far from having intimidated the other tribunals from
performing what they apprehended to be their duty, served only to inflame the discontents of
the people, and to animate all the courts of justice to a full exertion of their authority.
The chatelot continued to prosecute those priests, who refused the sacrament to persons whose
consciences would not allow them to subscribe to the bull Unigenitus, even after three of their
members were sent to the Bastile. The same prosecutions were carried on, and bold remonstrances
published by, the parliaments of Aix and Rouen. In a word, the whole kingdom was filled with
such confusion as threatened a total suppression of justice, in a general spirit of disaffection
and universal anarchy. The prelates, meanwhile, seemed to triumph in the combustion they had
raised. They entered into associations to support each other; they intrigued at court, and
harassed the king with insolent declarations, till he grew tired of their proceedings, and
opened his eyes to the fatal consequences of their pride and obstinacy. He even took an opportunity
of exhorting the archbishop of Paris to act more suitably to the character of a clergyman.
He recalled the parliament from exile, and they returned in triumph, amidst the acclamations
of the people, who celebrated their arrival at Paris with the most extravagant demonstrations
of joy; and the archbishop, notwithstanding the king's express declaration to the contrary,
still persisting in countenancing the recusant priests, was banished to Conflans-sous-Charenton.

AFFAIRS OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

In Spain, the interest of Great Britain was so warmly espoused, and so powerfully supported
by Mr. Wall, who had been resident in England, that the French party, though countenanced by
the queen-mother, and sustained with all the influence of the marquis de la Ensenada, the prime
minister, was totally defeated. The king being convinced that it would be for the interest
of his subjects to live on good terms with England, and well apprized of Ensenada's intrigues,
ordered that minister to be arrested and confined, and bestowed upon Mr. Wall the best part
of his employments. Nevertheless, the Spaniards in the West Indies continued to oppress the
subjects of Great Britain, employed in cutting logwood in the bay of Honduras; and representations
on this head being made to the court of Madrid, the dispute was amicably adjusted between Mr.
Wall and sir Benjamin Keene, the British ambassador. While the interest of Britain thus triumphed
in Spain, it seemed to lose ground at the court of Lisbon. His Portuguese majesty had formed
vast projects of an active commerce, and even established an East India company; in the meantime
he could not help manifesting his chagrin at the great quantities of gold which were yearly
exported from his dominions, as the balance due from his subjects on English commodities. In
his endeavours to check this traffic, which he deemed so detrimental to his subjects, he inflicted
hardships on the British merchants settled at Lisbon: some were imprisoned on frivolous pretences;
others deprived of their property, and obliged to quit the kingdom. He insisted upon laying
an imposition of two per cent, on all the Portuguese gold that should be exported; but the
profits of the trade would not bear such an exaction. Meanwhile, there being a scarcity of
corn in Portugal, the kingdom was supplied from England; and the people having nothing but
gold to purchase this necessary supply, the king saw the necessity of conniving at the exportation
of his coin, and the trade reverted into its former channel.

SESSION OPENED.

On the fourteenth day of November, the king of Great Britain opened the session of parliament
with an harangue, which intimated nothing of an approaching rupture. He said, that the general
state of affairs in Europe had undergone very little alteration since their last meeting; that
he had lately received the strongest assurances from his good brother the king of Spain, of
friendship and confidence, which he would cultivate with harmony and good faith. He declared
his principal view should be to strengthen the foundation, and secure the duration of a general
peace; to improve the present advantages of it for promoting the trade of his good subjects,
and protecting those possessions which constituted one great source of their wealth and commerce.
Finally, he exhorted them to complete their plan for appropriating the forfeited estates in
the highlands to the service of the public. He probably avoided mentioning the encroachments
of France, that he might supply no handle for debates on the address, which was carried in
both houses almost without opposition. The government seemed determined to humble the insolence
of the French councils; and this disposition was so agreeable to the people in general, that
they grudged no expense, and heartily concurred with the demands of the ministry.

The commons granted for the service of the ensuing year, four millions seventy-three thousand
seven hundred and twenty-nine pounds; one million of that sum expressly given to enable his
majesty to augment his forces by land and sea. Thirty-two thousand pounds were allotted as
a subsidy to the king of Poland, and twenty thousand to the elector of Bavaria. These gratifications
met with little or no opposition in the committee of supply; because it was taken for granted,
that, in case of a rupture, France would endeavour to avail herself of her superiority by land,
by invading his Britannic majesty's German dominions; and therefore it might be necessary to
secure the assistance of such allies on the continent. That they prognosticated aright, with
respect to the designs of that ambitious power, will soon appear in the course of this history;
which will also demonstrate how little dependence is to be placed upon the professed attachment
of subsidiary princes. The supplies were raised by the standing branches of the revenue, the
land-tax and malt-tax, and a lottery for one million; one hundred thousand pounds of it to
be deducted for the service of the public, and the remaining nine hundred thousand to be charged
on the produce of the sinking-fund, at the rate of three per cent, per annum, to commence from
the fifth day of January, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six. The civil transactions
of this session were confined to a few objects. Divers new regulations were made for encouraging
and improving the whale and white herring fishery, as well as for finishing and putting in
a proper state of defence a new fort, lately built at Anamabo on the coast of Africa.

BILL IN BEHALF OF CHELSEA PENSIONERS.

Mr. Pitt, the paymaster-general of the forces, brought in a bill, which will ever remain a
standing monument of his humanity. The poor disabled veterans who enjoyed the pension of Chelsea
hospital, were so iniquitously oppressed by a set of miscreants, who supplied them with money
per advance, at the most exorbitant rates of usury, that many of them, with their families,
were in danger of starving; and the intention of government in granting such a comfortable
subsistence, was in a great measure defeated. Mr. Pitt, perceiving that this evil originally
flowed from the delay of the first payment, which the pensioner could not touch till the expiration
of a whole year after he had been put upon the list, removed this necessity of borrowing, by
providing in the bill, that half a year's pension should be advanced half a year before it
is due; and the practice of usury was effectually prevented by a clause, enacting, that all
contracts should be void by which any pension might be mortgaged. This humane regulation was
unanimously approved, and having passed through both houses with uncommon expedition, received
the royal assent.

Notwithstanding the unanimity manifested by the commons, in every thing relating to the measures
for acting vigorously against the common enemy of the nation, they were remarkably disturbed
and divided by a contested election of members for Oxfordshire. In the course of this dispute,
the strength and influence of what they called the old and new interest, or, to speak more
intelligibly, of the tories and whigs in that county, were fully displayed. The candidates
sustained on the shoulders of the old interest, were lord viscount Wenman and sir James Dashwood:
their competitors, whom the new interest supported, and of consequence the ministry countenanced,
were lord Parker and sir Edward Turner. Never was any contention of this kind maintained with
more spirit and animosity, or carried on at a greater expense. One would have imagined that
each side considered it as a dispute which must have determined whether the nation should enjoy
its ancient liberty, or tamely submit to the fetters of corruption. Noblemen and gentlemen,
clergymen and ladies, employed all their talents and industry in canvassing for either side,
throughout every township and village in the county. Scandal emptied her whole quiver of insinuation,
calumny, and lampoon; corruption was not remiss in promises and presents: houses of entertainment
were opened; and nothing was for some time to be seen but scenes of tumult, riot, and intoxication.
The revenue of many an independent prince on the continent, would not have been sufficient
to afford such sums of money as were expended in the course of this dispute. At length they
proceeded to election, and the sheriff made a double return of all the four candidates, so
that not one of them could sit, and the county remained without a representative until this
ambiguous affair could be decided in the house of commons. About the middle of November, petitions
being presented by the four candidates, as well as by the gentlemen, clergy, and other freeholders
of the county, complaining of an undue election, and double return, the matter of these petitions
was heard at the bar of the house on the third day of December. The counsel for lord Wenman
and sir James Dashwood alleged that they had the majority of votes upon the poll, and this
circumstance was admitted by the counsel on the other side; then they proceeded to prove by
evidence, that, after closing the poll, the sheriff declared the majority of votes to be in
favour of these two candidates, and adjourned the court from the twenty-third day of April
to the eighth of May; so that the scrutiny demanded and granted on the behalf of lord Parker
and sir Edward Turner could not be discussed before the last day of the month, when the writ
was returnable; that the scrutiny did not begin till the ninth day of May, when the time was
protracted by disputes about the manner in which it should be carried on; that lord Parker
and sir Edward Turner were allowed to object, through the whole poll, to the votes on the other
side, on pretence that their competitors should be permitted to answer these objections, and,
in their turn, object through the whole poll to the voters for lord Parker and sir Edward Turner,
who should, in the last place, have leave to answer: that lord Wenman and sir James Dashwood
had disapproved of this method, because they apprehended it might induce their competitors
to make such a number of frivolous objections, that they should not have time to answer one
half of them, much less to make objections of their own before the writ should be returned:
that they foresaw such a number of frivolous objections were made, as engrossed the attention
of the court till the twenty-seventh day of May; so that they could not begin to answer any
of these objections till the twenty-eighth; and on the thirtieth, the sheriff, having closed
the scrutiny, made the double return. The proof being exhibited, the counsel insisted, that
as they had established a majority on the poll, and demonstrated that this majority neither
was nor could be overthrown by such an unfinished scrutiny, it was incumbent on the other side
to proceed upon the merits of the election, by endeavouring to overthrow that majority of which
their clients were in possession. A question in the house being carried to the same purpose,
lord Wenman and sir James Dashwood objected to five hundred and thirty voters on the other
side, whom they proposed to disqualify. Their counsel examined several witnesses, to prove
the partiality of the sheriff in favour of lord Parker and sir Edward Turner, and to detect
these candidates in the practice of bribery; for which purpose they produced a letter in their
own handwriting.

{1755}

They afterwards proceeded to disqualify particular voters, and summed up their evidence on
the twenty-first day of January. Then the counsel for the other side began to refute the charge
of partiality and corruption; and to answer the objections that had been made to particular
voters. They produced evidence to prove, that customary freeholds, or customary holdings, had
voted in elections in the counties at Glamorgan, Monmouth, Gloucester, Wells, and Hereford;
and that the customary tenants of the manor of Woodstock, in Oxfordshire, had been reputed
capable of voting, and even voted at elections for that county. In a word, they continued to
examine evidences, argue and refute, prove and disprove, until the twenty-third day of April,
when, after some warm debates and divisions in the house, lord Parker and sir Edward Turner
were declared duly elected; and the clerk of the crown was ordered to amend the return, by
erasing the names of lord Wenman and sir James Dashwood. Many, who presumed to think for themselves,
without recollecting the power and influence of the administration, were astonished at the
issue of this dispute, which, however, might have easily been foreseen; inasmuch, as, during
the course of the proceedings, most if not all of the many questions debated in the house,
were determined by a great majority in favour of the new interest. A great number of copyholders
had been admitted to vote at this election, and the sheriff incurred no censure for allowing
them to take the oath appointed by law to be taken by freeholders: nevertheless, the commons
carefully avoided determining the question, whether copyholders possessed of the yearly value
of forty shillings, clear of all deductions, have not a right to vote for knights to represent
the shire within which their copyhold estates are situated? This point being left doubtful
by the legislature, puts it often in the power of the sheriff to return which of the candidates
he pleases to support; for if the majority of the voting copyholders adheres to the interest
of his favourite, he will admit their votes both on the poll and the scrutiny; whereas, should
they be otherwise disposed, he will reject them as unqualified What effect this practice may
have upon the independency of parliament, every person must perceive who reflects, that, in
almost all the counties of England, the high sheriffs are annually appointed by the minister
for the time being.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

MESSAGE FROM THE KING TO THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

The attention of the legislature was chiefly turned upon the conduct of France, which preserved
no medium, but seemed intent upon striking some important blow, that might serve as a declaration
of war. At Brest, and other ports in that kingdom, the French were employed in equipping a
powerful armament, and made no scruple to own it was intended for North America. Towards the
latter end of March, sir Thomas Eobinson, secretary of state, brought a message from the king
to the parliament, intimating, that his majesty having at the beginning of the session declared
his principal object was to preserve the public tranquillity, and at the same time to protect
those possessions which constitute one great source of the commerce and wealth of his kingdoms,
he now found it necessary to acquaint the house of commons, that the present situation of affairs
made it requisite to augment his forces by sea and land, and to take such other measures as
might best tend to preserve the general peace of Europe, and secure the just rights and possessions
of his crown in America, as well as to repel any attempts whatsoever that might be made to
support or countenance any designs which should be formed against his majesty and his kingdoms;
and his majesty doubted not but his faithful commons, on whose affection and zeal he entirely
relied, would enable him to make such augmentations, and to take such measures for supporting
the honour of his crown, and the true interest of his people, and for the security of his dominions
in the present critical conjuncture, as the exigency of affairs might require; in doing which
his majesty would have as much regard to the ease of his good subjects as should be consistent
with their safety and welfare. In answer to this message, a very warm and affectionate address
was presented to his majesty; and it was on this occasion that the million was granted for
augmenting his forces by sea and land. [357] [See note 2 X at the end of this Vol.] The court
of Versailles, notwithstanding the assiduity and despatch which they were exerting in equipping
armaments, and embarking troops, for the support of their ambitious schemes in America, still
continued to amuse the British ministry with general declarations, that no hostility was intended,
nor the least infringement of the treaty.

COURT OF VERSAILLES AMUSES THE ENGLISH MINISTRY.

The earl of Albemarle, the English ambassador at Paris, having lately died in that city, these
assurances were communicated to the court of London by the marquis de Mirepoix, who resided
in England with the same character which he had supported since his first arrival, with equal
honour and politeness. On this occasion he himself was so far imposed upon by the instructions
he had received, that he believed the professions of his court were sincere, and seriously
endeavoured to prevent a rupture between the two nations. At length, however, their preparations
were so notorious that he began to suspect the consequence; and the English ministry produced
such proofs of their insincerity and double dealing, that he seemed to be struck with astonishment
and chagrin. He repaired to France, and upbraided the ministry of Versailles for having made
him the tool of their dissimulation. They referred him to the king, who ordered him to return
to London, with fresh assurances of his pacific intentions; but his practice agreed so ill
with his professions, that the ambassador had scarce obtained an audience to communicate them,
when undoubted intelligence arrived, that a powerful armament was ready to sail from Brest
and Rochfort. In the beginning of May the French fleet, commanded by Mr. Macnamara, an officer
of Irish extraction, sailed from Brest, directing his course to North America; but, after having
proceeded beyond the chops of the English channel, he returned with nine of the capital ships,
while the rest of the armament continued their course, under the direction of M. Bois de la Mothe.

SESSION CLOSED. The parliament was then prorogued to the twenty-seventh of May.

CHAPTER X.

     Preparations for War..... Earl Paulet's Motion against the
     King's going to Hanover..... Regency appointed during his
     Majesty's Absence..... Boscawen's Expedition..... Alcide and
     Lys taken..... French Ambassador recalled..... Their Trade
     greatly distressed..... Affairs of the English in
     America..... Col. Monckton takes Beau-Sejour..... General
     Braddock's unfortunate Expedition..... He falls into an
     Ambuscade; is defeated, and killed..... Disagreement between
     the Governor and Assembly of Pennsylvania..... Expedition
     against Crown Point and Niagara resolved on..... Gen.
     Johnson encamps at lake George..... where he is attacked by
     the French, who are entirely defeated..... Bravery of
     Captain M'Ginnes..... Gen. Johnson created a Baronet.....
     Description of Fort Oswego and Lake Ontario..... Neglect of
     the English in not fortifying it..... Expedition against
     Niagara..... Gen. Shirley returns to Albany..... End of the
     Campaign in America......Fruitless Intrigues of the French
     in Spain and Germany..... Treaty of the King of Great
     Britain with the Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel..... News of the
     Capture of the Alcide and Lys reaches England..... The King
     returns from Hanover, and concludes a Treaty with
     Russia..... Declaration of the French Ministry at the Court
     of Vienna..... Spirited Declaration of the King of
     Prussia..... The French make another unsuccessful Attempt
     upon the Court of Spain..... The Imperial Court refuses
     Auxiliaries to England..... The French take the Blandford
     Man of War, but return it..... State of the English and
     French Navies.....  Session opened..... Remarkable Addresses
     of the Lords and Commons..... His Majesty's Answer.....
     Alterations in the Ministry..... Mr. Fox made Secretary of
     State..... Supplies voted..... Earthquake at Lisbon.....
     Relief voted by Parliament to the Portuguese..... Troops,
     &c, voted..... Mutiny Bill, Marine, and Mariners' Acts
     continued..... Act for raising a Regiment of Foot in North
     America..... Maritime Laws of England extended to
     America..... Quiet of Ireland restored..... Treaty concluded
     with Prussia..... New   Militia   Bill passed by the
     Commons, but rejected by the Lords..... Session closed

PREPARATIONS FOR WAR. The press for seamen was carried on with extraordinary vigour in all
parts of this kingdom, as well as in Ireland; and great premiums were given not only by the
government, but also, over and above his majesty's bounty, by almost all the considerable cities
and towns in England, to such as should enlist voluntarily for sailors or soldiers. Other branches
of the public service went on with equal alacrity; and such was the eagerness of the people
to lend their money to the government, that instead of one million, which was to be raised
by way of lottery, three millions eight hundred and eighty thousand pounds were subscribed
immediately.

EARL PAULET'S MOTION.

The situation of affairs requiring his majesty to go to Germany this summer, great apprehensions
arose in the minds of many, lest the French should either intercept him in his journey, or
prevent his return. Earl Paulet had made a motion in the house of lords, humbly to represent
to his majesty, "That it was an article in the original act of settlement by which the succession
of these kingdoms devolved to his electoral house, that the king should not go to his foreign
dominions without the consent of parliament; and that this was a principal article in the compact
between the crown and the people; that though this article was repealed in the late reign,
yet, till of late, it had always been the custom for his majesty to acquaint the parliament
with his intended departure to his German dominions, both in regard to the true sense and spirit
of the act that placed him on the throne, as well as for the paternal kindness of his royal
heart, and the condescension he had been so good to show to his parliament on all occasions;
but that his majesty's declaration of his design to visit his electoral estates had always
come on the last day of a session, when it was too late for the great constitutional council
of the crown to offer such advice as might otherwise have been expedient and necessary; that
his majesty's leaving his kingdoms in a conjuncture so pregnant with distress, so denunciative
of danger, would not only give the greatest advantage to such as might be disposed to stir
up disaffection and discontent, and to the constitutional and national enemies of England;
but would also fill his loyal subjects with the most affecting concern, and most gloomy fears,
as well for their own safety, as for that of their sovereign, whose invaluable life, at all
times of the utmost consequence to his people, was then infinitely so, by reason of his great
experience, the affection of every one to his royal person, and the minority of the heir apparent."
Such was the purport of this motion; but it was not seconded by any of the other lords.

REGENCY APPOINTED.

The general uneasiness, on account of his majesty's departure, was greatly increased by an
apprehension that there would, during his absence, be no good agreement amongst the regency,
which consisted of the following persons: his royal highness William duke of Cumberland; Thomas
lord archbishop of Canterbury; Philip earl of Hardwicke, lord high chancellor; John earl of
Granville, president of the council; Charles duke of Marlborough, lord privy-seal; John duke
of Rutland, steward of the household; Charles duke of Grafton, lord-chamberlain; Archibald
duke of Argyle; the duke of Newcastle, first commissioner to the treasury; the duke of Dorset,
master of the horse; the earl of Holdernesse, one of the secretaries of state; the earl of
Rochford, groom of the stole; the marquis of Hartington, lord lieutenant of Ireland; lord Anson,
first commissioner of the admiralty; sir Thomas Eobinson, secretary of state; and Henry Fox,
esq., secretary at war. His majesty set out from St. James' on the twenty-eighth of April early
in the morning, and embarked at Harwich in the afternoon, landed the next day at Helvoetsluys,
and arrived in Hanover on the second of May.

BOSCAWEN'S EXPEDITION.

Admiral Boscawen, with eleven ships of the line and a frigate, having taken on board two regiments
at Plymouth, sailed from thence on the twenty-seventh of April for the banks of Newfoundland,
and in a few days after his arrival there, the French fleet from Brest came to the same station,
under the command of M. Bois de la Mothe. But the thick fogs which prevail upon these coasts,
especially at that time of the year, kept the two armaments from seeing each other; and part
of the French squadron escaped up the river St. Lawrence, whilst another part of them went
round, and got into the same river through the straits of Belleisle, by a way which was never
known to be attempted before by ships of the line. However, whilst the English fleet lay off
Cape Race, which is the southernmost point of Newfoundland, and was thought to be the most
proper situation for intercepting the enemy, two French ships, the Alcide, of sixty-four guns
and four hundred and eighty men, and the Lys, pierced for fifty-four guns, but mounting only
twenty-two, having eight companies of land-forces on board, being separated from the rest of
their fleet in the fog, fell in with the Dunkirk, captain Howe, and the Defiance, captain Andrews,
two sixty gun ships of the English squadron; and after a smart engagement, which lasted some
hours, and in which captain (afterwards lord) Howe behaved with the greatest skill and intrepidity,
were both taken, with several considerable officers and engineers, and about eight thousand
pounds in money. The French, who, for some time, did not even attempt to make reprisals on
our shipping, would gladly have chosen to avoid a war at that time, and to have continued extending
their encroachments on our settlements, till they had executed their grand plan of securing
a communication from the Mississippi to Canada, by a line of forts, many of which they had
already erected.

FRENCH AMBASSADOR RECALLED.

Upon the arrival of the news of this action at Paris, the French ambassador, M. de Mirepoix,
was recalled from London, and M. de Bussy from Hanover, where he had just arrived, to attend
the king of England in a public character. They complained loudly of Boscawen's attacking the
ships, as a breach of national faith; but it was justly retorted on the part of England, that
their encroachments in America had rendered reprisals both justifiable and necessary. The resolution
of making them was the effect of mature deliberation in the English council. The vast increase
of the French marine of late years, which in all probability would soon be employed against
Great Britain, occasioned an order for making reprisals general in Europe as well as in America;
and that all French ships, whether outward or homeward bound, should be stopped, and brought
into British ports. To give the greater weight to these orders, it was resolved to send out
those admirals who had distinguished themselves most towards the end of the last war. Accordingly,
on the twenty-first of July, sir Edward Hawke sailed on a cruise to the westward, with eighteen
ships of the line, a frigate, and a sloop; but, not meeting with the French fleet, these ships
returned to England about the latter end of September and the beginning of October; on the
fourteenth of which last month another fleet, consisting of twenty-two ships of the line, two
frigates, and two sloops, sailed again on a cruise to the westward, under admiral Byng, in
hopes of intercepting the French squadron under Duguay, and likewise that commanded by La Mothe,
in case of its return from America. But this fleet likewise returned to Spithead on the twenty-second
of November, without having been able to effect any thing, though it was allowed by all that
the admiral had acted judiciously in the choice of his stations.

While these measures were pursued, for the general security of the British coasts and trade
in Europe, several new ships of war were begun, and finished with the utmost expedition, in
his majesty's docks: twelve frigates and sloops, contracted for in private yards, were completed
by the month of August; and twenty-four ships and twelve colliers were then taken into the
service of the government, to be fitted out as vessels of war, to carry twenty guns and one
hundred and twenty men each. In the meantime the French trade was so annoyed by the English
cruisers, that before the end of this year three hundred of their merchant ships, many of which,
from St. Domingo and Martinique, were extremely rich, and eight thousand of their sailors were
brought into English ports. By these captures the British ministry answered many purposes:
they deprived the French of a great body of seamen, and withheld from them a very large property,
the want of which greatly distressed their people, and ruined many of their traders. Their
outward-bound merchant ships were insured at the rate of thirty per cent., whilst the English
paid no more than the common insurance. This intolerable burden was felt by all degrees of
people amongst them: their ministry was publicly reviled, even by their parliaments; and the
French name, from being the terror, began to be the contempt of Europe. Their uneasiness was
also not a little heightened by new broils between their king and the parliament of Paris,
occasioned by the obstinacy of the clergy of that kingdom, who seemed determined to support
the church, in all events, against the secular tribunals, and as much as possible to enforce
the observance of the bull Unigenitus, which had long been the occasion of so many disputes
among them. However, the parliament continuing firm, and the French king approving of its conduct,
the ecclesiastics thought proper to submit for the present, and in their general assembly this
year, granted him a free gift of sixteen millions of livres, which he demanded of them--a greater
sum than they had ever given before, even in time of war.

AFFAIRS OF THE ENGLISH IN AMERICA. Accordingly, towards the end of May, the governor sent a
large detachment of troops, under the command of lieutenant-colonel Monckton, upon this service;
and three frigates and a sloop were despatched up the bay of Fundy, under the command of captain
Rous, to give their assistance by sea. The troops, upon their arrival at the river Massaguash,
found the passage stopped by a large number of regular forces, rebel neutrals, or Acadians,
and Indians, four hundred and fifty of whom occupied a block-house, with cannon mounted on
their side of the river; and the rest were posted within a strong breast-work of timber, thrown
up by way of outwork to the block-house. The English provincials attacked this place with such
spirit, that the enemy were obliged to fly, and leave them in possession of the breast-work;
then the garrison in the block-house deserted it, and left the passage of the river free. From
thence colonel Monckton advanced to the French fort of Beau-Sejour, which he invested, as far
at least as the small number of his troops would permit, on the twelfth of June; and after
four days bombardment, obliged it to surrender, though the French had twenty-six pieces of
cannon mounted, and plenty of ammunition, and the English had not yet placed a single cannon
upon their batteries. The garrison was sent to Louisbourg, on condition of not bearing arms
in America for the space of six months; and the Acadians, who had joined the French, were pardoned,
in consideration of their having been forced into that service. Colonel Monckton, after putting
a garrison into this place, and changing its name to that of Cumberland, the next day attacked
and reduced the other French fort upon the river Gaspereau, which runs into Bay Verte; where
he likewise found a large quantity of provisions and stores of all kinds, that being the chief
magazine for supplying the French Indians and Acadians with arms, ammunition, and other necessaries.
He then disarmed these last, to the number of fifteen thousand; and in the meantime, captain
Rous with his ships sailed to the mouth of the river St. John, to attack the new fort the French
had erected there; but they saved him that trouble, by abandoning it upon his appearance, after
having burst their cannon, blown up their magazine, and destroyed, as far as they had time,
all the works they had lately raised. The English had but twenty men killed, and about the
same number wounded, in the whole of this expedition, the success of which secured the tranquillity
of Nova Scotia.

BRADDOCK'S UNFORTUNATE EXPEDITION.

While the new Englanders were thus employed in reducing the French in Nova Scotia, preparations
were made in Virginia for attacking them upon the Ohio. A fort was built, which was likewise
called Fort Cumberland, and a camp formed at Will's-Creek. On the fourteenth of January of
this year, major-general Brad-dock, with colonel Dunbar's and colonel Halket's regiments of
foot, sailed from Cork, in Ireland, for Virginia, where they all landed safe before the end
of February. This general might consequently have entered upon action early in the spring,
had he not been unfortunately delayed by the Virginian contractors for the army, who, when
he was ready to march, had neither provided a sufficient quantity of provisions for his troops,
nor a competent number of carriages for his army. This accident was foreseen by almost every
person who knew any thing of our plantations upon the continent of America; for the people
of Virginia, who think of no produce but their tobacco, and do not raise corn enough even for
their own subsistence, being, by the nature of their country, well provided with the conveniency
of water conveyance, have but few wheel carriages, or beasts of burden; whereas Pennsylvania,
which abounds in corn, and most other sorts of provisions, has but little water-carriage, especially
in its western settlements, where its inhabitants have great numbers of carts, waggons, and
horses. Mr. Braddock should therefore certainly, in point of prudence, have landed in Pennsylvania:
the contract for supplying his troops should have been made with some of the chief planters
there, who could easily have performed their engagements; and if his camp had been formed near
Frank's Town, or somewhere upon the south-west borders of that province, he would have had
but eighty miles to march from thence to Fort Du Quesne, instead of an hundred and thirty miles
that he had to advance from Will's-Creek, where he did encamp, through roads neither better
nor more practicable than the other would have been. This error, in the very beginning of the
expedition, whether owing to an injudicious preference fondly given to the Virginians in the
lucrative job of supplying these troops, or to any other cause, delayed the march of the army
for some weeks, during which it was in the utmost distress for necessaries of all kinds; and
would probably have defeated the expedition entirely for that summer, had not the contractors
found means to procure some assistance from the back settlements of Pennsylvania. But even
when these supplies did arrive, they consisted of only fifteen waggons, and an hundred draft
horses, instead of an hundred and fifty waggons and three hundred horses, which the Virginian
contractors had engaged to furnish, and the provisions were so bad that they could not be used.
However, some gentlemen in Pennsylvania, being applied to in this exigency, amply made up for
these deficiencies, and the troops were by this means supplied with every thing they wanted.
Another, and still more fatal error was committed in the choice of the commander for this expedition.
Major-general Braddock, who was appointed to it, was undoubtedly a man of courage, and expert
in all the punctilios of a review, having been brought up in the English guards; but he was
naturally very haughty, positive, and difficult of access; qualities ill suited to the temper
of the people amongst whom he was to command. His extreme severity in matters of discipline
had rendered him unpopular among the soldiers; and the strict military education in which he
had been trained from his youth, and which he prided himself on scrupulously following, made
him hold the American militia in great contempt, because they could not go through their exercise
with the same dexterity and regularity as a regiment of guards in Hyde Park, little knowing,
or indeed being able to form any idea of the difference between the European manner of fighting,
and an American expedition through woods, deserts, and morasses. Before he left England, he
received, in the hand-writing of colonel Napier, a set of instructions from the duke of Cumberland.
By these, the attempt upon Niagara was in a great measure referred to him, and the reduction
of Crown Point was to be left chiefly to the provincial forces. But above all, his royal highness,
both verbally and in this writing, frequently cautioned him carefully to beware of an ambush
or surprise. Instead of regarding this salutary caution, his conceit of his own abilities made
him disdain to ask the opinion of any under his command; and the Indians, who would have been
his safest guards against this danger in particular, were so disgusted by the haughtiness of
his behaviour, that most of them forsook his banners. Under these disadvantages he began his
march from Fort Cumberland on the tenth of June, at the head of about two thousand two hundred
men, for the meadows, where colonel Washington was defeated the year before. Upon his arrival
there, he was informed that the French at Fort du Quesne, which had lately been built on the
same river, near its confluence with the Monangahela, expected a reinforcement of five hundred
regular troops: therefore, that he might march with a greater despatch, he left colonel Dunbar
with eight hundred men, to bring up the provisions, stores, and heavy baggage, as fast as the
nature of the service would permit; and with the other twelve hundred, together with ten pieces
of cannon, and the necessary ammunition, and provisions, he marched on with so much expedition,
that he seldom took any time to reconnoitre the woods or thickets he was to pass through; as
if the nearer he approached the enemy, the farther he was removed from danger.

On the eighth of July, he encamped within ten miles of Fort du Quesne. Though colonel Dunbar
was then near forty miles behind him, and his officers, particularly sir Peter Halket, earnestly
entreated him to proceed with caution, and to employ the friendly Indians who were with him,
by way of advanced guard, in case of ambuscades; yet he resumed his march the next day, without
so much as endeavouring to obtain any intelligence of the situation or disposition of the enemy,
or even sending out any scouts to visit the woods and thickets on both sides of him, as well
as in front. With this carelessness he was advancing, when, about noon, he was saluted with
a general fire upon his front, and all along his left flank, from an enemy so artfully concealed
behind the trees and bushes, that not a man of them could be seen. The vanguard immediately
fell back upon the main body, and in an instant the panic and confusion became general; so
that most of the troops fled with great precipitation, notwithstanding all that their officers,
some of whom behaved very gallantly, could do to stop their career. As to Braddock himself,
instead of scouring the thickets and bushes from whence the fire came, with grape shot from
the ten pieces of cannon he had with him, or ordering flanking parties of his Indians to advance
against the enemy, he obstinately remained upon the spot where he was, and gave orders for
the few brave officers and men who staid with him, to form regularly, and advance. Meanwhile
his men fell thick about him, and almost all his officers were singled out, one after another,
and killed or wounded; for the Indians, who always take aim when they fire, and aim chiefly
at the officers, distinguished them by their dress. At last, the general, whose obstinacy seemed
to increase with the danger, after having had some horses shot under him, received a musket
shot through the right arm and lungs, of which he died in a few hours, having been carried
off the field by the bravery of lieutenant-colonel Gage, another of his officers. When he dropped,
the confusion of the few that remained turned it into a downright and very disorderly flight
across a river which they had just passed, though no enemy appeared, or attempted to attack
them. All the artillery, ammunition, and baggage of the army were left to the enemy, and, among
the rest, the general's cabinet, with all his letters and instructions, which the French court
afterwards made great use of in their printed memorials or manifestoes. The loss of the English
in this unhappy affair amounted to seven hundred men. Their officers, in particular, suffered
much more than in the ordinary proportion of batteries in Europe. Sir Peter Halket fell by
the very first fire, at the head of his regiment; and the general's secretary, son to governor
Shirley, was killed soon after. Neither the number of men which the enemy had in this engagement,
nor the loss which they sustained, could be so much as guessed at; but the French afterwards
gave out, that their number did not, in the whole, exceed four hundred men, mostly Indians;
and that their loss was quite inconsiderable, as it probably was, because they lay concealed
in such a manner that the English knew not whither to point their muskets. The panic of these
last continued so long, that they never stopped till they met the rear division; and even then
they infected those troops with their terrors; so that the army retreated without stopping,
till they reached Fort Cumberland, though the enemy did not so much as attempt to pursue, nor
ever appeared in sight, either in the battle, or after the defeat. On the whole, this was perhaps
the most extraordinary victory that ever was obtained, and the farthest flight that ever was made.

Had the shattered remains of this army continued at Fort Cumberland, and fortified themselves
there, as they might easily have done, during the rest of the summer, they would have been
such a check upon the French and their scalping Indians, as would have prevented many of those
ravages that were committed in the ensuing winter upon the western borders of Virginia and
Pennsylvania; but, instead of taking that prudent step, their commander left only the sick
and wounded at that fort, under the protection of two companies of the provincial militia,
posted there by way of garrison, and began his march on the second of August, with about sixteen
hundred men, for Philadelphia; where those troops could be of no immediate service. From thence
they were ordered away to Albany, in New York, by general Shirley, on whom the chief command
of the troops in America had devolved by the death of major-general Braddock. Virginia, Maryland,
and Pennsylvania, were by these means left entirely to the care of themselves, which they might
have done effectually, had they been united in their councils; but the usual disputes between
their governors and assemblies, defeated every salutary plan that was proposed. Pennsylvania,
the most powerful of the three, was rendered quite impotent, either for its own defence or
that of its neighbours, by these unhappy contests; though, at last, the assembly of that province,
sensible of the danger to which they were exposed, and seeing the absolute necessity of providing
a standing military force, and of erecting some forts to defend their western frontier, passed
a bill for raising fifty thousand pounds. But even this sum, small as it was, even to a degree
of ridicule, considering the richness of the province and the extent of its frontier, could
not be obtained; the governor positively refusing to give his assent to the act of the assembly,
because they had taxed the proprietaries estates equally with those of the inhabitants, which,
he said, he was ordered by his instructions, not to consent to, nor indeed any new tax upon
the proprietaries: and the assembly, consisting chiefly of members whose estates lay in the
eastern or interior parts of the province, as positively refusing to alter their bill. One
would be apt to think, that, in a case of such urgent necessity, the governor might have ventured
to give his assent to the bill under a protest, that it should not prejudice the rights of
the proprietaries upon any future occasion; but as he did not, the bill was dropped, and the
province left defenceless; by which means it afterwards suffered severely, to the destruction
of many of the poor inhabitants upon the western frontier, and to the impressing the Indians
with a contemptible opinion of the English, and the highest esteem of the French.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

EXPEDITION AGAINST CROWN POINT AND NIAGARA RESOLVED ON.

Our colonies to the north of Pennsylvania were more active, and more successful in their preparations
for war. New York, following the example of New England, passed an act to prohibit the sending
of provisions to any French port or settlement on the continent of North America, or any of
the adjacent islands; and also for raising forty-five thousand pounds, on estates real and
personal, for the better defence of their colony, which lay more exposed than any other to
a French invasion from Crown Point. However, this sum, great as it might seem to them, was
far from being sufficient; nor, indeed, could they have provided properly for their security,
without the assistance of our other colonies to the east of them; but with their help, and
the additional succour of the small body of regular troops expected under Colonel Dunbar, they
boldly resolved upon offensive measures, which when practicable are always the safest; and
two expeditions, one against the French fort at Crown Point, and the other against their fort
at Niagara, between the lakes Ontario and Erie, were set on foot at the same time. The former
of these expeditions was appointed to be executed under the command of general Johnson, a native
of Ireland, who had long resided upon the Mohawk river, in the western parts of New York, where
he had acquired a considerable estate, and was universally beloved, not only by the inhabitants,
but also by the neighbouring Indians, whose language he had learnt, and whose affections he
had gained by his humanity towards them. The expedition against Niagara was commanded by general
Shirley himself.

The rendezvous of the troops for both these expeditions was appointed to be at Albany, where
most of them arrived before the end of June; but the artillery, batteaux, provisions, and other
necessaries for the attempt upon Crown Point, could not be prepared till the eighth of August,
when general Johnson set out with them from Albany for the Carrying-place from Hudson's river
to Lake George. There the troops had already arrived, under the command of major-general Lyman,
and consisted of between five and six thousand men, besides Indians, raised by the governments
of Boston, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and New York. Every thing was then prepared
as fast as possible for a march; and towards the end of the month, general Johnson advanced
about fourteen miles forward with his troops, and encamped in a very strong situation, covered
on each side by a thick wooded swamp, by Lake George in his rear, and by a breast-work of trees,
cut down for that purpose, in his front. Here he resolved to wait the arrival of his batteaux,
and afterwards to proceed to Ticonderoga, at the other end of the lake, from whence it was
but about fifteen miles to the fort at the south end of Lake Colaer, or Champlain, called Fort
Frederick by the French, and by us Crown Point. Whilst he was thus encamped, some of his Indian
scouts, of which he took care to send out numbers along both sides, and to the farther end
of Lake George, brought him intelligence that a considerable number of the enemy were then
on their march from Ticonderoga, by the way of the south bay, towards the fortified encampment,
since called Fort Edward, which general Lyman had built at the Carrying-place; and in which
four or five hundred of the New Hampshire and New York men had been left as a garrison. Upon
this information general Johnson sent two expresses, one after the other, to colonel Blanchard
their commander, with orders to call in all his out-parties, and to keep his whole force within
the intrenchments. About twelve o'clock at night, those who had been sent upon the second express
returned with an account of their having seen the enemy within four miles of the camp at the
Carrying-place, which they scarcely doubted their having by that time attacked. Important as
the defence of this place was for the safety of the whole army, and imminent as the danger
seemed to be, it does not appear that the general then called any council of war, or resolved
upon any thing for its relief; but early the next morning he called a council, wherein it was
unadvisedly resolved to detach a thousand men, with a number of Indians, to intercept, or,
as the general's expression was in his letter, to catch the enemy in their retreat, either
as victors, or as defeated in their design. This expedient was resolved on, though no one knew
the number of the enemy, nor could obtain any information in that respect from the Indian scouts,
because the Indians have no words or signs for expressing any large number, which, when it
exceeds their reckoning, they signify by pointing to the stars in the firmament, or to the
hair of their head; and this they often do to denote a number less than a thousand, as well
as to signify ten thousand, or any greater number.

Between eight and nine o'clock in the morning a thousand men, with two hundred Indians, were
detached under the command of colonel Williams; but they had not been gone two hours when those
in the camp began to hear a close firing, at about three or four miles' distance, as they judged;
as it approached nearer and nearer, they rightly supposed that the detachment was overpowered,
and retreating towards the camp; which was soon confirmed by some fugitives, and presently
after by whole companies, who fled back in great confusion. In a very short time after, the
enemy appeared marching in regular order up to the centre of the camp, where the consternation
was so great, that, if they had attacked the breastwork directly, they might probably have
thrown all into confusion, and obtained an easy victory; but fortunately for the English, they
halted for some time at about an hundred and fifty yards' distance, and from thence began their
attack with platoon firing, too far off to do much hurt, especially against troops who were
defended by a strong breastwork. On the contrary, this ineffectual fire served only to raise
the spirits of these last, who, having prepared their artillery during the time that the French
halted, began to play it so briskly upon the enemy, that the Canadians and Indians in their
service fled immediately into the woods on each side of the camp, and there squatted under
bushes, or skulked behind trees, from whence they continued firing with very little execution,
most of their shot being intercepted by the brakes and thickets; for they never had the courage
to advance to the verge of the wood. Baron Dieskau, who commanded the French, being thus left
alone with his regular troops at the front of the camp, finding he could not make a close attack
upon the centre with his small number of men, moved first to the left, and then to the right,
at both which places he endeavoured to force a passage, but was repulsed, being unsupported
by the irregulars. Instead of retreating, as he ought in prudence to have done, he still continued
his platoon and bush firing till four o'clock in the afternoon, during which time his regular
troops suffered greatly by the fire from the camp, and were at last thrown into confusion;
which was no sooner perceived by general Johnson's men, than they, without waiting for orders,
leaped over their breastwork, attacked the enemy on all sides, and after killing and taking
a considerable number of them, entirely dispersed the rest. The French, whose numbers at the
beginning of this engagement amounted to about two thousand men, including two hundred grenadiers,
eight hundred Canadians, and the rest Indians of different nations, had between seven and eight
hundred men killed, and thirty taken prisoners; among the latter was baron Dieskau himself,
whom they found at a little distance from the field of battle, dangerously wounded, and leaning
on the stump of a tree for his support. The English lost about two hundred men, and those chiefly
of the detachment under Colonel Williams; for they had very few either killed or wounded in
the attack upon their camp, and not any of distinction, except colonel Tit-comb killed, and
the general himself and major Nichols wounded. Among the slain of the detachment, which would
probably have been entirely cut off had not lieutenant-colonel Cole been sent out from the
camp with three hundred men, with which he stopped the enemy's pursuit, and covered the retreat
of his friends, were colonel Williams, major Ashly, six captains, and several subalterns, besides
private men; and the Indians reckoned that they had lost forty men, besides the brave old Hendrick,
the Mohawk sachem, or chief captain.

BRAVERY OF CAPTAIN M'GINNES.

When baron Dieskau set out from Ticonderoga, his design was only to surprise and cut off the
intrenched camp, now called Fort Edward, at the Carrying-place, where there were but four or
five hundred men. If he had executed this scheme, our army would have been thrown into great
difficulties; for it could neither have proceeded farther, nor have subsisted where it was,
and he might have found an opportunity to attack it with great advantage in its retreat. But
when he was within four or five miles of that fort, his people were informed that there were
several cannon there, and none at the camp; upon which they all desired to be led on to this
last, which he the more readily consented to, as he himself had been told by an English prisoner,
who had left this camp but a few days before, that it was quite defenceless, being without
any lines, and destitute of cannon; which, in effect, was true at that time; for the cannon
did not arrive, nor was the breast-work erected, till about two days before the engagement.
To this misinformation, therefore, must be imputed this step, which would otherwise be inconsistent
with the general character and abilities of baron Dieskau. A less justifiable error seems to
have been committed by general Johnson, in not detaching a party to pursue the enemy when they
were defeated and fled. Perhaps he was prevented from so doing by the ill fate of the detachment
he had sent out in the morning under colonel Williams. However that may be, his neglect in
this respect had like to have been fatal the next day to a detachment sent from Fort Edward,
consisting of an hundred and twenty men of the New Hampshire regiment, under captain M'Ginnes,
as a reinforcement to the army at the camp. This party fell in with between three and four
hundred men of Dieskau's troops, near the spot where colonel Williams had been defeated the
day before; but M'Ginnes, having timely notice by his scouts of the approach of an enemy, made
such a disposition, that he not only repulsed the assailants, but defeated and entirely dispersed
them, with the loss only of two men killed, eleven wounded, and five missing. He himself unfortunately
died of the wounds he received in this engagement, a few days after he arrived at the camp
with his party. It was now judged too late in the year to proceed to the attack of Crown Point,
as it would have been necessary, in that case, to build a strong fort in the place where the
camp then was, in order to secure a communication with Albany, from whence only the troops
could expect to be reinforced, or supplied with fresh stores of ammunition or provisions. They
therefore set out upon their return soon after this engagement, having first erected a little
stockaded fort, at the hither end of Lake George, in which they left a small garrison, as a
future prey for the enemy; a misfortune which might easily have been foreseen, because this
whole army being country militia, was to be disbanded, and return to their respective homes,
as they actually did soon after their retreat to Albany. This was all the glory, this all the
advantage, that the English nation acquired by such an expensive expedition. But so little
had the English been accustomed of late to hear of victory, that they rejoiced at this advantage,
as if it had been an action of the greatest consequence. The general was highly applauded for
his conduct, and liberally rewarded; for he was created a baronet by his majesty, and presented
with five thousand pounds by the parliament.

DESCRIPTION OF FORT OSWEGO, &c

The preparations for general Shirley's expedition against Niagara, were not only deficient,
but shamefully slow; though it was well known that even the possibility of his success must,
in a great measure, depend upon his setting out early in the year, as will appear to any person
who considers the situation of our fort at Oswego, this being the only way by which he could
proceed to Niagara. Oswego lies on the south-east side of the lake Ontario, near three hundred
miles almost due west from Albany in New York. The way to it from thence, though long and tedious,
is the more convenient, as the far greatest part of it admits of water carriage, by what the
inhabitants called batteaux, which are a kind of light flat-bottomed boats, widest in the middle,
and pointed at each end, of about fifteen hundred weight burden, and managed by two men called
batteau-men, with paddles and setting poles, the rivers being in many places too narrow to
admit of oars. From Albany to the village of Schenactady, about sixteen miles, is a good waggon
road. From thence to the little falls in the Mohawk-river, being sixty-five miles, the passage
is by water-carriage up that river, and consequently against the stream, which in many places
is somewhat rapid, and in others so shallow, that, when the river is low, the watermen are
obliged to get out and draw their batteaux over the rifts. At the little falls is a postage
or land-carriage for about a mile, over a ground so marshy that it will not bear any wheel
carriage; but a colony of Germans settled there, attend with sledges, on which they draw the
loaded batteaux to the next place of embarkation upon the same river. From thence they proceed
by water up that river for fifty miles, to the Carrying-place, near the head of it, where there
is another postage, the length of which depends upon the dryness or wetness of the season,
but is generally above six or eight miles over in the summer months. Here the batteaux are
again carried upon sledges, till they come to a narrow river, called Wood's Creek, down which
they are wafted on a gentle stream for about forty miles into the lake Oneyada, which stretches
from east to west about thirty miles, and is passed with great ease and safety in calm weather.
At the western end of the lake is the river Onondaga, which, after a course of between twenty
and thirty miles, unites with the river Cayuga, or Seneca, and their united streams run into
the lake Ontario, at the place where Oswego fort is situated. But this river is so rapid as
to be sometimes dangerous, besides its being full of rifts and rocks; and about twelve miles
on this side of Oswego there is a fall of eleven feet perpendicular, where there is consequently
a postage, which however, does not exceed forty yards. From thence the passage is easy quite
to Oswego. The lake Ontario, on which this fort stands, is near two hundred and eighty leagues
in circumference; its figure is oval, and its depth runs from twenty to twenty-five fathoms.
On the north side of it are several little gulfs. There is a communication between this lake
and that of the Hurons by the river Tanasuate, from whence it is a land-carriage of six or
eight leagues to the river Toronto, which falls into it. The French have two forts of consequence
on this lake; Frontenac, which commands the river St. Lawrence, where the lake communicates
with it; and Niagara, which commands the communication between the lake Ontario and the lake
Erie. But of these forts, and this last lake, which is one of the finest in the world, we shall
have occasion to speak hereafter.

Though we had long been in possession of fort Oswego, and though it lay greatly exposed to
the French, particularly to those of Canada, upon any rupture between the two nations, we had
never taken care to render it tolerably defensible, or even to build a single vessel fit for
navigating the lake: nor was this strange neglect ever taken effectual notice of, till the
beginning of this year, when, at a meeting which general Braddock had in April with the governors
and chief gentlemen of several of our colonies at Alexandria, in Virginia, it was resolved
to strengthen both the fort and garrison at Oswego, and to build some large vessels at that
place. Accordingly a number of shipwrights and workmen were sent thither in May and June. At
the same time captain Bradstreet marched thither with two companies of an hundred men each,
to reinforce the hundred that were there before under captain King, to which number the garrison
had been increased since our contests with France began to grow serious. For a long time before,
not above twenty-five men were left to defend this post, which from its great importance, and
the situation of affairs at this juncture, most certainly required a much stronger garrison
than was put into it even at this juncture; but economy was the chief thing consulted in the
beginning of this war, and to that in a great measure was owing its long duration.

EXPEDITION AGAINST NIAGARA.

From the above description of the passage from Albany to Oswego, it is plain how necessary
it was that the troops intended for this expedition should have set out early in the spring.
But instead of that, the very first of them, colonel Schuyler's New Jersey regiment, did not
begin their march till after the beginning of July, and just as Shirley's and Pepperell's regiments
were preparing to follow, the melancholy account of Braddock's disaster arrived at Albany,
where it so damped the spirits of the people, and spread such a terror, that many of the troops
deserted, and most of the batteau-men dispersed and ran home, by which means even all the necessary
stores could not be carried along with the troops. Notwithstanding this disappointment, Mr.
Shirley set out from Albany before the end of July, with as many of the troops and stores as
he could procure a conveyance for, hoping to be joined in his route by great numbers of the
Indians of the Six Nations, to whom he sent invitations to that effect as he passed by their
settlements; but they, instead of complying with his desire, absolutely declared against all
hostilities on that side of the country; and insisted that Oswego, being a place of traffic
and peace, ought not to be disturbed either by the English or the French, as if they could
have persuaded both parties to agree to such a local truce. Upon this refusal, Mr. Shirley
proceeded forward, being joined by a very few Indians, and arrived at Oswego on the seventeenth
or eighteenth of August; but the rest of the troops and artillery did not arrive till the last
day of that month; and even then, their store of provisions was not sufficient to enable them
to go against Niagara, though some tolerably good vessels had by this time been built and got
ready for that purpose. The general now resolved to take but six hundred men with him for the
attack of Niagara, and to leave the rest of his army, consisting of about fourteen hundred
more, at Oswego, to defend that place, in case the French should attack it in his absence,
which there was reason to apprehend they might, as they then had a considerable force at fort
Frontenac, from whence they could easily cross over the lake Ontario to Oswego. However, he
was still obliged to wait at Oswego for provisions, of which at length a small supply arrived
on the twenty-sixth of September, barely sufficient to support his men during their intended
expedition, and to allow twelve days' short subsistence for those he left behind. But by this
time the rainy boisterous season had begun, on which account most of his Indians had already
left him and were returned home; and the few that remained with him declared that there was
no crossing the lake Ontario in batteaux at that season, or any time before the next summer.
In this perplexity he called a council of war, which, after weighing all circumstances, unanimously
resolved to defer the attempt upon Niagara till the next year, and to employ the troops, whilst
they remained at Oswego, in building barracks, and erecting, or at least beginning to erect,
two new forts, one on the east side of the river Onondaga, four hundred and fifty yards distant
from the old fort, which it was to command, as well as the entrance of the harbour, and to
be called Ontario-fort; and the other four hundred and fifty yards west of the old fort, to
be called Oswego new fort.

GENERAL SHIRLEY RETURNS TO ALBANY.

These things being agreed on, general Shirley, with the greatest part of the troops under his
command, set out on his return to Albany on the twenty-fourth of October, leaving colonel Mercer,
with a garrison of about seven hundred men, at Oswego; though repeated advice had been received,
that the French had then at least a thousand men at their fort at Frontenac, upon the same
lake; and, what was still worse, the new forts were not yet near completed; but left to be
finished by the hard labour of colonel Mercer and his little garrrison, with the addition of
this melancholy circumstance, that, if besieged by the enemy in the winter, it would not be
possible for his friends to come to his assistance. Thus ended this year's unfortunate campaign,
during which the French, with the assistance of their Indian allies, continued their murders,
scalping, captivating, and laying waste the western frontiers of Virginia and Pennsylvania,
during the whole winter.

The ministers of the two warring powers were very busily employed this year at most of the
courts of Europe; but their transactions were kept extremely secret. The French endeavoured
to inspire the Spaniards with a jealousy of the strength of the English by sea, especially
in America; and the Spanish court seemed inclined to accept of the office of mediator; but
Mr. Wall, who was perfectly well acquainted with the state of affairs between England and France,
seconded the representations of the British ministry, which demonstrated, that, however willing
Great Britain might be to accept of the mediation of Spain, she could not agree to any suspension
of arms in America, which France insisted on as a preliminary condition, without hazarding
the whole of her interest there; and that the captures which had been made by the English were
the necessary consequences of the encroachments and injustice of the French, particularly in
that country. Upon this remonstrance, all further talk of the mediation of Spain was dropped,
and the ministry of Versailles had recourse to the princes of Germany; amongst whom the elector
of Cologn was soon brought over to their party, so as to consent to their forming magazines
in his territories in Westphalia. This was a plain indication of their design against Hanover,
which they soon after made his Britannic majesty, who was then at Hanover, an offer of sparing,
if he would agree to certain conditions of neutrality for that electorate, which he rejected
with disdain. Then the count d'Aubeterre, envoy-extraordinary from France at the court of Vienna,
proposed a secret negotiation with the ministers of the empress-queen. The secret articles
of the treaty of Petersburgh, between the two empresses, had stipulated a kind of partition
of the Prussian territories, in case that prince should infringe the treaty of Dresden; but
his Britannic majesty, though often invited, had always refused to agree to any such stipulation;
and the king of Poland, howsoever he might be inclined to favour the scheme, did not dare to
avow it formally, till matters should be more ripe for carrying it into execution. The court
of Vienna, whose favourite measure this was, began to listen to d'Aubeterre's insinuations,
and by degrees entered into negotiations with him, which, in the end, were productive of that
unnatural confederacy between the empress-queen and the king of France, of which further notice
will be taken in the occurrences of the next year, when the treaty between them, into which
they afterwards found means secretly to bring the empress of Russia, was concluded at Versailles.

TREATY WITH THE LANDGRAVE OF HESSE-CASSEL.

The king of England taking it for granted that the French would invade Hanover, in consequence
of their rupture with Great Britain, which seemed to be near at hand, began to take measures
for the defence of that electorate. To this end, during his stay at Hanover, he concluded,
on the eighteenth day of June, a treaty with the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, by which his serene
highness engaged to hold in readiness, during four years, for his majesty's service, a body
of eight thousand men, to be employed, if required, upon the continent, or in Britain, or Ireland;
but not on board the fleet or beyond the seas; and also, if his Britannic majesty should judge
it necessary or advantageous for his service, to furnish and join to this body of eight thousand
men, within six months after they should be demanded, four thousand more, of which seven hundred
were to be horse or dragoons, and each regiment of infantry to have two field pieces of cannon.
[364] [See note 2 Y, at the end of this Vol.] Another treaty was begun with Russia about the
same time; but this did not take effect during his majesty's residence at Hanover: that others
were not concluded was the more surprising, as our subsidy-treaty with Saxony had then expired,
and that with Bavaria was near expiring, and as the securing of these two princes in our interest
was at least as necessary towards forming a sufficient confederacy upon the continent for the
defence of Hanover, as it was to secure the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel. If the reason of their
not being engaged, and no other seems so probable, was, that they refused to renew their treaties
with England upon any terms, all that can be said is, that they were guilty of flagrant ingratitude,
as they had both received a subsidy from this kingdom for many years in time of peace, when
they neither were nor could be of any service to the interest of Great Britain.

NEWS OF THE CAPTURE OF THE ALCIDE AND LYS REACHES ENGLAND.

On the fifteenth of July, an express arrived from admiral Boscawen, with an account of his
having taken the two French ships of war, the Alcide and the Lys. This was certainly contrary
to the expectation of the court of France; for had they apprehended any such attack, they would
not have ordered Mr. Macnamara to return to Brest with the chief part of their squadron; nor
was it perhaps less contrary to the expectation of some of our own ministry; but as matters
had been carried so far, it was then too late to retreat; and, therefore, orders were soon
after given to all our ships of war to make reprisals upon the French, by taking their ships
wherever they should meet them. Sir Edward Hawke sailed from Portsmouth on the twenty-first
of July, with eighteen ships of war, to watch the return of the French fleet from America;
which, however, escaped him, and arrived at Brest on the third day of September. Commodore
Frankland sailed from Spithead for the West Indies on the thirteenth of August, with four ships
of war, furnished with orders to commit hostilities, as well as to protect our trade and sugar-islands
from any insult that the French might offer; and the duke de Mirepoix, their ambassador at
the court of London, set out for Paris on the twenty-second of July, without taking leave.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE KING RETURNS FROM HANOVER, AND CONCLUDES A TREATY WITH RUSSIA.

A war being thus in some measure begun, his majesty thought proper, perhaps for that reason,
to return to his British dominions sooner than usual; for he left Hanover on the eighth of
September, and arrived on the fifteenth at Kensington, where the treaty of alliance between
him and the empress of Russia, which he had begun during his absence, was concluded on the
thirtieth of the same month. By this treaty her Russian majesty engaged to hold in readiness
in Livonia, upon the frontiers of Lithuania, a body of troops consisting of forty thousand
infantry, with the necessary artillery, and fifteen thousand cavalry; and also on the coast
of the same province, forty or fifty galleys, with the necessary crews; to be ready to act,
upon the first order, in his majesty's service, in case, said the fifth article, which was
the most remarkable, that the dominions of his Britannic majesty in Germany should be invaded
on account of the interests or disputes which regard his kingdoms; her imperial majesty declaring
that she would look upon such an invasion as a case of the alliance of the year one thousand
seven hundred and forty-two; and that the said dominions should be therein comprised in this
respect; but neither these troops nor galleys were to be put in motion, unless his Britannic
majesty, or his allies, should be somewhere attacked; in which case the Russian general should
march as soon as possible after requisition, to make a diversion with thirty thousand infantry,
and fifteen thousand cavalry; and should embark on board the galleys the other ten thousand
infantry to make a descent according to the exigency of the affair. On the other side, his
Britannic majesty engaged to pay to her Russian majesty an annual subsidy of an hundred thousand
pounds sterling a year, each year to be paid in advance, and to be reckoned from the day of
the exchange of the ratifications, to the day that these troops should upon requisition march
out of Russia; from which day the annual subsidy to her imperial majesty was to be five hundred
thousand pounds sterling, to be paid always four months in advance, until the troops should
return into the Russian dominions, and for three months after their return. His Britannic majesty,
who was to be at liberty to send once every year into the said province of Livonia a commissary,
to see and examine the number and condition of the said troops, further engaged, that, in case
her Russian majesty should be disturbed in this diversion, or attacked herself, he would famish
immediately the succour stipulated in the treaty of one thousand seven hundred and forty-two,
and that in case a war should break out, he should send, into the Baltic a squadron of his
ships, of a force suitable to the circumstances. This was the chief substance of the treaty,
which, by agreement of both parties, was to subsist for four years from the exchange of the
ratifications; but in the seventh article these words were unluckily inserted: "Considering
also the proximity of the countries wherein the diversion in question will probably be made,
and the facility her troops will probably have of subsisting immediately in an enemy's country,
she takes upon herself alone, during such a diversion, the subsistence and treatment of the
said troops by sea and land." And in the eleventh article it was stipulated, that all the plunder
the Russian army should take from the enemy should belong to them. That his Britannic majesty,
who now knew enough of the court of Vienna to be sensible that he could expect no assistance
from thence, in case his German dominions were invaded, should enter into this convention with
the empress of Russia, in order to strengthen his defence upon the continent, was extremely
natural; especially as he had lately lived in great friendship with her, and her transactions
with the court of France had been so secret, by passing through only that of Vienna, that he
had not yet been informed of them; neither had the project of the treaty of Versailles then
come to his knowledge, or to that of the king of Prussia, nor had either of these princes yet
made any formal advances to the other.

DECLARATION OF THE FRENCH MINISTRY AT THE COURT OF VIENNA.

The first intimation that appeared publicly of the negotiations of France with the empress
of Germany, was when the French minister, count d'Aubeterre, declared at Vienna, "That the
warlike designs with which the king his master was charged, were sufficiently confuted by his
great moderation, of which all Europe had manifold proofs; that his majesty was persuaded this
groundless charge had given as much indignation to their imperial majesties as to himself;
that he was firmly resolved to preserve to Christendom that tranquillity which it enjoyed through
his good faith, in religiously observing the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; but that if his Britannic
majesty's allies should take part in the war which was kindled in America, by furnishing succours
to the English, his majesty would be authorized to consider and treat them as principals in
it." France likewise made the same declaration to other courts.

SPIRITED DECLARATION OF PRUSSIA.

The words and stipulation in the above-recited clause, in the seventh article of the treaty
of Great Britain with Russia, were looked on as a menace levelled at the king of Prussia, who,
having some time found means to procure a copy of this treaty, and seeing it in that light,
boldly declared, by his ministers at all the courts of Europe, that he would oppose, with his
utmost force, the entrance of any foreign troops into the empire, under any pretence whatever.
This declaration was particularly displeasing to the French, who had already marched large
bodies of troops towards the frontiers of the empire, and erected several great magazines in
Westphalia, with the permission of the elector of Cologn, for which the English minister at
his court was, in August, ordered to withdraw from thence without taking leave. However, as
soon as this declaration of the king of Prussia was notified to the court of Versailles, they
sent an ambassador-extraordinary, the duke de Nivernois, to Berlin, to try to persuade his
majesty to retract his declaration, and enter into a new alliance with them. His Prussian majesty
received this ambassador in such a manner as seemed to denote a disposition to agree to every
thing he had to propose. This awakened in England a jealousy that his declaration alone was
not to be relied on, but that it was necessary to bring him under some solemn engagement; especially
as the French had by this time a numerous army near the Lower Rhine, with magazines provided
for their march all the way to Hanover; and if the king of Prussia suffered them to pass through
his dominions, that electorate must be swallowed up before the Russian auxiliaries could possibly
be brought thither, or any army be formed for protecting it.* For this reason a negotiation
was set on foot by Great Britain at Berlin, but as it was not concluded before the beginning
of the next year, we shall defer entering into the particulars of it till we come to that period.

     * Perhaps the elector of Hanover was more afraid of the
     Prussian monarch than of the most christian king, knowing
     with what ease and rapidity this enterprising neighbour
     could, in a few days, subdue the whole electorate.

THE FRENCH MAKE ANOTHER UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT UPON THE COURT OF SPAIN.

Meanwhile the French made another attempt upon the court of Madrid, loudly complaining of the
taking their two men of war by Boscawen's squadron, before any declaration of war was made,
representing it as a most unjustifiable proceeding, which threatened a dissolution of all faith
amongst nations. This produced a strong memorial from sir Benjamin Keene, our minister at that
court, importing, "That it was well known that the French fleet carried troops, ammunition,
and every thing necessary for defending the countries which the French had unjustly usurped
in America, and of which the English claimed the property; that the rules of self-defence authorize
every nation to render fruitless any attempt that may tend to its prejudice; that this right
had been made use of only in taking the two French ships of war; and that the distinction of
place might be interpreted in favour of the English, seeing the two ships were taken on the
coasts of the countries where the contest arose." In answer to this observation, the French
minister represented the vast number of ships which had been taken in the European seas; for
in fact the English ports soon began to be filled with them, in consequence of the general
orders for making reprisals. But the court of Madrid was so far from being persuaded by any
thing he could say, that it gave his Britannic majesty the strongest assurances of its friendship,
and of its intention to take no part in the differences between him and France, but such as
should be conciliatory, and tending to restore the public tranquillity.

THE IMPERIAL COURT REFUSES AUXILIARIES TO ENGLAND.

On the other hand, his Britannic majesty required, as king of Great Britain, the auxiliaries
stipulated to him by treaty from the empress-queen. But these were refused, under pretence,
that as the contest between him and France related to America only, it was not a case of the
alliance; though at the same time the French made no scruple of owning, that they intended
to make a powerful descent on Great Britain early in the spring. When, a little while after,
France being employed in making great preparation for a land war in Europe, the king of England
required her to defend her own possessions, the barrier in the Low Countries, with the number
of men stipulated by the treaty, which countries, acquired by English blood and English treasure,
had been given to her on that express condition, she declared that she could not spare troops
for that purpose, on account of her dangerous enemy the king of Prussia; and afterwards, when
he was secured by his treaty with England, she urged that as a reason for her alliance with
France. It must be owned, however, for the sake of historical truth, that this was no bad reason,
considering the power, the genius, and the character of that prince, who hovered over her dominions
with an army of one hundred and fifty thousand veterans. It must likewise be owned, that she
undertook to procure the French king's consent to a neutrality for Hanover, which would have
effectually secured that electorate from the invasion of every other power but Prussia itself;
and it is no strained conjecture to suppose, that the dread of this very power was the true
source of those connexions in Germany, which entailed such a ruinous continental war upon Great
Britain.

THE FRENCH TAKE THE BLANDFORD.

Though the English continued to make reprisals upon the French, not only in the seas of America,
but also in those of Europe, by taking every ship they could meet with, and detaining them,
their cargoes, and crews; yet the French, whether from a consciousness of their want of power
by sea, or that they might have a more plausible plea to represent England as the aggressor,
were so far from returning these hostilities, that their fleet, which escaped sir Edward Hawke,
having, on the thirteenth of August, taken the Blandford ship of war, with governor Lyttelton
on board, going to Carolina, they set the governor at liberty, as soon as the court was informed
of the ship's being brought into Nantes, and shortly after released both the ship and the crew.
However, at the same time, their preparations for a land war still went on with great diligence,
and their utmost arts and efforts were fruitlessly exerted to persuade the Spaniards and Dutch
to join with them against Great Britain.

STATE OF THE ENGLISH AND FRENCH NAVIES.

In England the preparations by sea became greater than ever, several new ships of war were
put in commission, and many others taken into the service of the government; the exportation
of gunpowder was forbid; the bounties to seamen were continued, and the number of those that
either entered voluntarily, or were pressed, increased daily, as did also the captures from
the French, among which was the Espérance, of seventy guns, taken as she was going from Rochefort
to Brest to be manned. The land-forces of Great Britain were likewise ordered to be augmented;
several new regiments were raised, and all half-pay officers, and the out-pensioners belonging
to Chelsea-hospital, were directed to send in their names, ages, and time of service, in order
that such of them as were yet able to serve might be employed again if wanted. The English
navy, so early as in the month of September of this year, consisted of one ship of an hundred
and ten guns, five of an hundred guns each, thirteen of ninety, eight of eighty, five of seventy-four,
twenty-nine of seventy, four of sixty-six, one of sixty-four, thirty-three of sixty, three
of fifty-four, twenty-eight of fifty, four of forty-four, thirty-five of forty, and forty-two
of twenty, four sloops of war of eighteen guns each, two of sixteen, eleven of fourteen, thirteen
of twelve, and one of ten, besides a great number of bomb-ketches, fire-ships, and tenders;
a force sufficient to oppose the united maritime strength of all the powers in Europe; whilst
that of the French, even at the end of this year, and including the ships then upon the stocks,
amounted to no more than six ships of eighty guns, twenty-one of seventy-four, one of seventy-two,
four of seventy, thirty-one of sixty-four, two of sixty, six of fifty, and thirty-two frigates.

SESSION OPENED.

Such was the situation of the two kingdoms, when, on the thirteenth of November, the parliament
met, and his majesty opened the session with a speech from the throne, in which he acquainted
them--"That the most proper measures had been taken to protect our possessions in America,
and to regain such parts thereof as had been encroached upon, or invaded; that to preserve
his people from the calamities of war, as well as to prevent a general war from being lighted
up in Europe, he had been always ready to accept reasonable and honourable terms of accommodation,
but that none such had been proposed by France; that he had also confined his views and operations
to hinder France from making new encroachments, or supporting those already made; to exert
his people's right to a satisfaction for hostilities committed in time of profound peace, and
to disappoint such designs, as, from various appearances and preparations, there was reason
to think had been formed against his kingdoms and dominions; that the king of Spain earnestly
wished the preservation of the public tranquillity, and had given assurances of his intention
to continue in the same pacific sentiments; that he himself had greatly increased his naval
armaments, and augmented his land-forces in such a manner as might be least burdensome; and,
finally, that he had concluded a treaty with the empress of Russia, and another with the landgrave
of Hesse-Cassel, which should be laid before them."

REMARKABLE ADDRESSES OF BOTH HOUSES.

In answer to this speech, both houses voted most loyal addresses, but not without a warm opposition,
in each, to some of the particular expressions; for it having been proposed in the house of
lords to insert in their address the words following, viz.: "That they looked upon themselves
as obliged, by the strongest ties of duty, gratitude, and honour, to stand by and support his
majesty in all such wise and necessary measures and engagements as his majesty might have taken
in vindication of the rights of his crown, or to defeat any attempts which might be made by
France in resentment for such measures, and to assist his majesty in disappointing or repelling
all such enterprises as might be formed, not only against his kingdoms, but also against any
other of his dominions (though not belonging to the crown of Great Britain), in case they should
be attacked on account of the part which his majesty had taken for maintaining the essential
interests of his kingdoms;" the inserting of these words in their address was opposed by earl
Temple, and several other lords; because, by the first part of them, they engaged to approve
of the treaties with Russia and Hesse-Cassel, neither of which they had ever seen; nor could
it be supposed that either of them could be of any advantage to this nation; and by the second
part of these words it seemed to be resolved, to engage this nation in a continental connexion
for the defence of Hanover, which it was impossible for England to support, and which would
be so far from being of any advantage to it at sea, or in America, that it might at last disable
the nation from defending itself in either of those parts of the world. But upon putting the
question, the inserting of these words was agreed to by a great majority, and accordingly they
stand as part of the address of the house upon that occasion.

HIS MAJESTY'S ANSWER.

To this remarkable address his majesty returned the following as remarkable answer: "My lords,
I give you my hearty thanks for this dutiful and affectionate address. I see, with the greatest
satisfaction, the zeal you express for my person and government, and for the true interest
of your country, which I am determined to adhere to. The assurances which you give me for the
defence of my territories abroad, are a strong proof of your affection for me, and regard for
my honour. Nothing shall divert me from pursuing those measures which will effectually maintain
the possessions and rights of my kingdoms, and procure reasonable and honourable terms of accommodation."--The
address of the house of commons breathed the same spirit of zeal and gratitude, and was full
of the warmest assurances of a ready support of his majesty, and of his foreign dominions,
if attacked in resentment of his maintaining the rights of his crown and kingdom; and his majesty's
answer to it was to the same effect as that to the house of lords. The same, or nearly the
same words, relating to the treaties concluded by his majesty, and to the defence of his foreign
dominions, were proposed to be inserted in this address, which was opposed by William Pitt,
esq., then paymaster of his majesty's forces; the right hon. Henry Legge, esq., then chancellor
and un-der-treasurer of his majesty's exchequer, and one of the commissioners of the treasury;
and by several other gentlemen in high posts under the government, as well as by many others;
but, upon putting the question, it was by a considerable majority agreed to insert the words
objected to; and very soon after, Mr. Pitt, Mr. Legge, and most, if not all, of the gentlemen
who had appeared in the opposition, were dismissed from their employments. In the meantime,
a draft came over from Russia for part of the new subsidy stipulated to that crown; but some
of the ministry, who were then at the head of the finances, refused to pay it, at least before
the treaty should be approved of by parliament.

ALTERATIONS IN THE MINISTRY.

Sir Thomas Robinson had not been long in possession of the office of secretary of state, before
it was generally perceived, that, though an honest well meaning man, and a favourite with the
king, his abilities were not equal to the functions of that post. Much less were they so at
this juncture, when the nation was on the point of being engaged in a difficult and expensive
war, and plunged into foreign measures and connexions, which would require the utmost skill
of an able politician to render them palatable to the people. Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox, though
they scarce ever agreed in any other particular, had generally united in opposing his measures,
and their superior influence in the house of commons, and universally acknowledged abilities,
though of very different kinds, had always prevailed; uncommon as it was, to see two persons
who held considerable places under the government, one of them being paymaster-general, and
the other secretary at war, oppose, upon almost every occasion, a secretary of state who was
supposed to know and speak the sentiments of his master. Sir Thomas himself soon grew sensible
of his want of sufficient weight in the senate of the nation; and therefore, of his own accord,
on the tenth of November, wisely and dutifully resigned the seals of his office to his majesty,
who delivered them to Mr. Fox, and appointed sir Thomas master of the wardrobe, with a pension
to him during his life, and after his death to his sons. Lord Barrington succeeded Mr. Fox
as secretary at war; and soon after sir George Lyttelton was made chancellor of the exchequer,
and a lord of the treasury, in the room of Mr. Legge, who had declared himself against the
new continental system. However, notwithstanding these changes in the ministry, very warm debates
arose in both houses, when the treaties of Russia and Hesse-Cassel came to be considered by
them; some of the members were for referring them to a committee; but this motion was over-ruled,
in consideration of his majesty's having engaged in them to guard against a storm that seemed
ready to break upon his electoral dominions, merely on account of our quarrel with the French.
They were at length approved of by a majority of three hundred and eighteen against one hundred
and twenty-six, in the house of commons; and by eighty-four against eleven, in the house of lords.

The house of commons then proceeded to provide for the service of the ensuing year, and for
the deficiencies of the provisions for the former. Fifty thousand seamen, including nine thousand
one hundred and thirty-eight marines, were voted, on the twenty-fourth of November, for the
service of the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six, together with two millions six
hundred thousand pounds for their maintenance; and thirty-four thousand two hundred and sixty-three
land soldiers, with nine hundred and thirty thousand six hundred and three pounds, six shillings
and ninepence, for their support. An hundred thousand pounds were voted as a subsidy to the
empress of Russia; fifty-four thousand one hundred and forty pounds, twelve shillings and sixpence,
to the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel; and ten thousand pounds to the elector of Bavaria.

EARTHQUAKE AT LISBON.

During these transactions, the public was overwhelmed with consternation by the tidings of
a dreadful earthquake, which, on the first November, shook all Spain and Portugal, and many
other places in Europe, and laid the city of Lisbon in ruins. When the news of this great calamity
first reached England, it was feared the consequences of it might affect our public credit,
considering the vast interest which the English merchants had in the Portuguese trade; but
fortunately, it afterwards proved inconsiderable, in comparison of what had been apprehended;
the quarter in which the English chiefly lived, and where they had their warehouses, having
suffered the least of any part of the city; and most of the English merchants then residing
there, together with their families, being at their country houses, to avoid the insults to
which they might have been exposed from the Portuguese populace, during the celebration of
their auto-da-fe, which was kept that very day. The two first shocks of this dreadful visitation
continued near a quarter of an hour, after which the water of the river Tagus rose perpendicularly
above twenty feet, and subsided to its natural bed in less than a minute. Great numbers of
houses, of which this city then contained about thirty-six thousand, extending in length near
six miles, in form of a crescent, on the ascent of a hill upon the north shore of the mouth
of the river Tagus, within nine miles from the ocean, were thrown down by the repeated commotions
of the earth, together with several magnificent churches, monasteries, and public buildings.
But what entirely completed the ruin of this then most opulent capital of the Portuguese dominions,
was a devouring conflagration, partly fortuitous or natural, but chiefly occasioned by a set
of impious villains, who, unawed by the tremendous scene at that very instant passing before
their eyes, with a wickedness scarcely to be credited, set fire even to the falling edifices
in different parts of the city, to increase the general confusion, that they might have the
better opportunity to rob and plunder their already desolated fellow-citizens. Out of three
hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, which Lisbon was then supposed to contain, about ten
thousand perished by this calamity; and the survivors, deprived of their habitations, and destitute
even of the necessaries of life, were forced to seek for shelter in the open fields.

RELIEF VOTED TO THE PORTUGUESE.

As soon as his majesty received an account of this deplorable event, from his ambassador at
the court of Madrid, he sent a message to both houses of parliament, on the twenty-eighth of
November, acquainting them therewith, and desiring their concurrence and assistance towards
speedily relieving the unhappy sufferers; and the parliament thereupon, to the honour of British
humanity, unanimously voted, on the eighth of December, a gift of an hundred thousand pounds
for the distressed people of Portugal. A circumstance which enhances the merit of this action
is, that though the English themselves were, at that very time, in great want of grain, a considerable
part of the sum was sent in corn, flour, rice, and a large quantity of beef from Ireland; supplies
which came very seasonably for the poor Portuguese, who were in actual want of the necessaries
of life. Their king was so affected by this instance of British generosity, that, to show his
gratitude for the timely relief, he ordered Mr. Castres, the British resident at his court,
to give the preference, in the distribution of these supplies, to the British subjects who
had suffered by the earthquake; accordingly, about a thirtieth part of the provisions, and
two thousand pounds in money, were set apart for that purpose; and his Portuguese majesty returned
his thanks, in very warm terms, to the British crown and nation.

The report of an intended invasion of these kingdoms by the French increasing daily, on the
twenty-second day of January lord Barrington, as secretary at war, laid before the house an
estimate for defraying the charge of ten new regiments of foot, over and above the thirty-four
thousand two hundred and sixty-three land soldiers before ordered to be raised; and a sum of
ninety-one thousand nine hundred and nineteen pounds, ten shillings, was voted for these additional
forces; upon another estimate presented a little after by the same lord, and founded upon the
same reasons, for raising, for the further defence of the kingdom, eleven troops of light dragoons,
forty-nine thousand six hundred and twenty-eight pounds, eleven shillings and threepence, were
voted for the ensuing year; together with eighty-one thousand one hundred and seventy-eight
pounds, sixteen shillings, for a regiment of foot to be raised in North America; two hundred
and ninety-eight thousand five hundred and thirty-four pounds, seventeen shillings and tenpence
halfpenny, for the maintenance of our forces already established in our American colonies;
and seventy-nine thousand nine hundred and fifteen pounds, six shillings, for six regiments
of foot from Ireland, to serve in North America and the East Indies. In short, including several
other sums, as well as for defraying the expense of the army and navy, as for a subsidy of
twenty thousand pounds to the king of Prussia, and one hundred and twenty-one thousand four
hundred and forty-seven pounds, two shillings and sixpence, for Hanoverian troops, of which
two last articles further notice will be taken hereafter, the whole of the supplies granted
by parliament in this session, amounted to seven millions two hundred and twenty-nine thousand
one hundred and seventeen pounds, four shillings and sixpence three farthings. For raising
this sum, besides the malt tax, and the land tax of four shillings in the pound, the whole
produce of the sinking fund, from the fifth of January one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six,
till it should amount to one million five hundred and fifty-five thousand nine hundred and
fifty-five pounds, eleven shillings and elevenpence halfpenny, was ordered to be applied thereunto;
together with a million to be raised by loans or exchequer bills, at three per cent, interest;
one million five hundred thousand pounds, to be raised by the sale of redeemable annuities
at three and a half per cent., and five hundred thousand pounds to be raised by a lottery,
at three per cent. All which sums, with eighty-three thousand four hundred and twelve pounds,
two shillings, and five-pence halfpenny, then remaining in the exchequer, amounted to seven
millions four hundred and twenty-seven thousand two hundred and sixty-one pounds, five shillings
and sevenpence.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

MUTINY BILL, MARINE, AND MARINERS' ACTS CONTINUED.

The clause inserted in the mutiny bill last year, subjecting all officers and soldiers raised
in America, by authority of the respective governors or governments there, to the same rules
and articles of war, and the same penalties and punishments, as the British forces were liable
to; the act passed at the same time for regulating the marine forces, while on shore, and that
for the more speedy and effectual manning of his majesty's navy, were not only confirmed now,
but it was further enacted, with respect to this last, as well as for the more speedy and effectual
recruiting of his majesty's land-forces, that the commissioners appointed by the present act
should be empowered to raise and levy, within then-respective jurisdictions, such able-bodied
men as did not follow any lawful calling or employment; or had not some other lawful and sufficient
support; and might order, wherever and whenever they pleased, a general search to be made for
such persons, in order to their being brought before them to be examined; nay, that the parish
or town officers might, without any such order, search for and secure such persons, in order
to convey them before the said commissioners to be examined; that if any three commissioners
should find any person, so brought before them, to be within the above description, and if
the recruiting officer attending should judge him to be a man fit for his majesty's service,
they should cause him to be delivered to such officer, who might secure him in any place of
safety provided by the justices of peace for that purpose, or even in any public prison; and
that every such man was from that time to be deemed a listed soldier, and not to be taken out
of his majesty's service by any process, other than for some criminal matter. Nothing could
more plainly show either the zeal of the parliament for a vigorous prosecution of the war,
or their confidence in the justice and moderation of our ministry, than their agreeing to this
act, which was to continue in force till the end of the next session; and which, in the hands
of a wicked and enterprising administration, might have been made such an use of, as would
have been inconsistent with that security which is provided by our happy constitution for the
liberty of the subject.

ACT FOR RAISING A REGIMENT OF FOOT IN NORTH AMERICA.

The next object of the immediate attention of parliament in this session, was the raising of
a new regiment of foot in North America; for which purpose the sum of eighty-one thousand one
hundred and seventy-eight pounds, sixteen shillings, to which the estimate thereof amounted,
was voted. This regiment, which was to consist of four battalions of a thousand men each, was
intended to be raised chiefly out of the Germans and Swiss, who, for many years past, had annually
transported themselves in great numbers to the British plantations in America, where waste
lands had been assigned them upon the frontiers of the provinces; but, very injudiciously,
no care had been taken to intermix them with the English inhabitants of the place. To this
circumstance it is owing, that they have continued to correspond and converse only with one
another; so that very few of them, even of those who have been born there, have yet learned
to speak or understand the English tongue. However, as they were all zealous protestants, and
in general strong hardy men, and accustomed to the climate, it was judged that a regiment of
good and faithful soldiers might be raised out of them, particularly proper to oppose the French;
but to this end it was necessary to appoint some officers, especially subalterns, who understood
military discipline, and could speak the German language; and as a sufficient number of such
could not be found among the English officers, it was necessary to bring over and grant commissions
to several German and Swiss officers and engineers; but this step, by the act of settlement,
could not be taken without the authority of parliament; an act was now passed for enabling
his majesty to grant commissions to a certain number of foreign protestants, who had served
abroad as officers or engineers, to act and rank as officers or engineers in America only.
An act was likewise passed in this session, strictly forbidding, under pain of death, any of
his majesty's subjects to serve as officers under the French king, or to enlist as soldiers
in his service, without his majesty's previous license; and also for obliging such of his majesty's
subjects as should, in time to come, accept of commissions in the Scotch brigade in the Dutch
service, to take the oaths of allegiance and abjuration, on pain of forfeiting five hundred pounds.

MARITIME LAWS OF ENGLAND EXTENDED TO AMERICA.

As it had been resolved, in the beginning of the preceding summer, to build vessels of force
upon the lake Ontario, an act was now passed for extending the maritime laws of England, relating
to the government of his majesty's ships and forces by sea, to such officers, seamen, and others,
as should serve on board his majesty's ships or vessels employed upon the lakes, great waters,
or rivers in North America; and also, but not without opposition to this last, for the better
recruiting of his majesty's forces upon the continent of America; to which end, by a new clause
now added to a former act, a recruiting officer was empowered to enlist and detain an indented
servant, even though his master should reclaim him, upon paying to the master such a sum as
two justices of peace within the precinct should adjudge to be a reasonable equivalent for
the original purchase money, and the remaining time such servant might have to serve.

QUIET OF IRELAND RESTORED.

The intestine broils of Ireland were happily composed this year, by the prudent management
of the marquis of Hartington, lord lieutenant of that kingdom. By his steady and disinterested
conduct, his candour and humanity, the Irish were not only brought to a much better temper,
even among themselves, than they were before their late outrageous riots and dangerous dissensions
happened; but also prevailed upon to acquiesce in the measures of England, without this last
being obliged to give up any one point of her superiority. The leading men in the parliament
of Ireland were the first that conformed; and though the ferment continued very high for some
time after, among the middling and lower ranks of people, it was at length entirely allayed
by the wisdom of the lord lieutenant, and the excellent law which he encouraged and passed
for the benefit of that nation.* The primate of Ireland, who had been very busy in fomenting
many of the late disturbances, was, by his majesty's command, struck off the list of privy-counsellors;
and the greatest part of those patriots, whom faction had turned out of their employments there,
were reinstated with honour.

     * Among other objects of the attention of the legislature of
     that country, ten thousand pounds were granted for making
     the river Nore navigable from the city of Kilkenny to the
     town of Innestalge; twenty thousand pounds towards carrying
     on an inland navigation from the city of Dublin to the river
     Shannon; four thousand pounds for making the river Newry
     navigable; a thousand pounds a year for two years, for the
     encouragement of English protestant schools; several sums,
     to be distributed in premiums, for the encouragement of the
     cambric, hempen, and flaxen manufactures; and three hundred
     thousand pounds to his majesty, towards supporting the
     several branches of the establishment, and for defraying the
     expenses of the government for two years.

{1756}

TREATY CONCLUDED WITH PRUSSIA.

The parliament of England, which had adjourned on the twenty-third day of December, met again:
the house of commons on the thirteenth of January, and the lords on the nineteenth. On the
sixteenth of the same month, the treaty between his Britannic majesty and the king of Prussia
was signed, importing, that, for the defence of their common country, Germany, and in order
to preserve her peace and tranquillity, which it was feared was in danger of being disturbed,
on account of the disputes in America, the two kings, for that end only, entered into a convention
of neutrality, by which they reciprocally bound themselves not to suffer foreign troops of
any nation whatsoever to enter into Germany, or pass through it during the troubles aforesaid,
and the consequences that might result from them; but to oppose the same with their utmost
might, in order to secure Germany from the calamities of war, maintain her fundamental laws
and constitutions, and preserve her peace uninterrupted. Thus, the late treaty with Russia
was virtually renounced. Their majesties, moreover, seized this favourable opportunity to adjust
the differences that had subsisted between them, in relation to the remainder of the Silesia
loan due to the subjects of his Britannic majesty, and the indemnification claimed by the subjects
of his Prussian majesty for their losses by sea during the late war; so that the attachment
laid on the said debt was agreed to be taken off, as soon as the ratification of this treaty
should be exchanged.

NEW MILITIA-BILL.

On the twenty-first of January the house took into consideration the laws then in being relating
to the militia of this kingdom; and, finding them insufficient, ordered a new bill to be prepared,
and brought in, for the better regulating of the militia forces in the several counties of
England. A bill was accordingly prepared to that effect, and presented to the house on the
twelfth of March, by the hon. Charles Townshend, esq., who, to his honour, was one of the chief
promoters of it. After receiving many amendments in the house of commons, it was on the tenth
of May passed, and sent to the lords; but several objections being made to it by some of the
peers, and it seemed to them that some further amendments were still necessary, which they
thought they could not in that session spare time to consider so maturely as the importance
of the subject required, a negative of fifty-nine against twenty-three was put upon the motion
for passing the bill; though every one must have been sensible, not only of the propriety,
but even of the absolute necessity of such a law, which was ardently desired by the whole nation.

SESSION CLOSED.

On the twenty-seventh of May, his majesty went to the house of peers, and, after having given
the royal assent to the bills then depending, thanked his parliament, in a speech from the
throne, for their vigorous and effectual support. He acquainted them, that the injuries and
hostilities which had been for some time committed by the French against his dominions and
subjects, were then followed by the actual invasion of the island of Minorca, though guaranteed
to him by all the great powers in Europe, and particularly by the French king; that he had,
therefore, found himself obliged, in vindication of the honour of his crown, and of the rights
of his people, to declare war in form against France; and that he relied on the Divine Protection,
and the vigorous assistance of his faithful subjects, in so just a cause. The parliament was
then adjourned to the eighteenth of June; and from thence afterwards to the eighteenth of July,
and then it was prorogued.

CHAPTER XI.

     Letter from M. Rouillé to the Secretary of State..... The
     two Nations recriminate on each other..... The French
     threaten Great Britain with an Invasion..... Requisition of
     six thousand Dutch Troops according to Treaty..... Message
     from the King to the Parliament..... A Body of Hessians and
     Hanoverians transported into England..... French
     Preparations at Toulon..... Admiral Byng sails for the
     Mediterranean..... He arrives at Gibraltar..... engages M.
     de la Galissonniere off Minorca..... and returns to
     Gibraltar..... Ferment of the People at Home..... Admiral
     Byng superseded and sent home Prisoner..... Account of the
     Siege of St. Philip's Fort in Minorca..... Precautions taken
     by General Blakeney..... Siege commenced..... English
     Squadron appears..... General Attack of the Works..... The
     Garrison capitulates..... Sir Edward Hawke sails to
     Minorca..... Rejoicings in France, and Clamours in
     England..... Gallantry of Fortunatus Wright..... General
     Blakeney created a Baron..... Measures taken for the Defence
     of Great Britain..... Proclamation..... Earl of Loudon
     appointed Commander-in-Chief in America..... His Britannic
     Majesty's Declaration of War..... Substance of the French
     King's Declaration..... Address of the City of London.....
     Trial of General Fowke..... Affairs of America..... Colonel
     Bradstreet defeats a Body of French on the River
     Onondaga..... Earl of Loudon arrives at New York..... Oswego
     reduced by the Enemy..... Further Proceedings in
     America..... Naval Operations in that Country.....
     Transactions in the East Indies..... Calcutta besieged by
     the Viceroy of Bengal..... Deplorable Fate of those who
     perished in the Dungeon there..... Additional Cruelties
     exercised on Mr. Holwell..... Resolution against Angria.....
     Port of Geriah taken by Admiral Watson and Mr. Clive.....
     Their subsequent Proceedings in the River Ganges

LETTER FROM M. ROUILLE.

In the month of January, Mr. Fox, lately appointed secretary of state, received a letter from
M. Rouillé, minister and secretary of state for foreign affairs to the king of France, expostulating,
in the name of his sovereign, upon the orders and instructions for committing hostilities,
which his Britannic majesty had given to general Braddock, and admiral Boscawen, in diametrical
opposition to the most solemn assurances so often repeated by word of mouth, as well as in
writing. He complained of the insult which had been offered to his master's flag in attacking
and taking two of his ships in the open sea, without any previous declaration of war; as also
by committing depredations on the commerce of his most christian majesty's subjects, in contempt
of the law of nations, the faith of treaties, and the usages established among civilised nations.
He said, the sentiments and character of his Britannic majesty gave the king his master room
to expect, that, at his return to London, he would disavow the conduct of his admiralty; but
seeing that, instead of punishing, he rather encouraged those who had been guilty of such depredations,
his most christian majesty would be deemed deficient in what he owed to his own glory, the
dignity of his crown, and the defence of his people, if he deferred any longer demanding a
signal reparation for the outrage done to the French flag, and the damage sustained by his
subjects. He therefore demanded immediate and full restitution of all the French ships, which,
contrary to law and decorum, had been taken by the English navy, together with all the officers,
soldiers, mariners, guns, stores, and merchandise. He declared, that should this restitution
be made, he should be willing to engage in a negotiation for what further satisfaction he might
claim, and continue desirous to see the differences relating to America determined by a solid
and equitable accommodation; but if, contrary to all hopes, these demands should be rejected,
he would consider such a denial of justice as the most authentic declaration of war, and as
a formed design in the court of London to disturb the peace of Europe. To this peremptory remonstrance
the British secretary was directed to answer, that though the king of England would readily
consent to an equitable and solid accommodation, he would not comply with the demand of immediate
and full restitution as a preliminary condition; for his majesty had taken no steps but such
as were rendered just and indispensable by the hostilities which the French began in time of
profound peace, and a proper regard for his own honour, the rights and possessions of his crown,
and the security of his kingdoms.

Without all doubt the late transactions had afforded specious arguments for both nations to
impeach the conduct of each other. The French court, conscious of their encroachments in Nova
Scotia, affected to draw a shade over these, as particulars belonging to a disputed territory,
and to divert the attention to the banks of the Ohio, where Jamonville and his detachment had
been attacked and massacred by the English, without the least provocation. They likewise inveighed
against the capture of their ships, before any declaration of war, as flagrant acts of piracy;
and some neutral powers of Europe seemed to consider them in the same point of view. It was
certainly high time to check the insolence of the French by force of arms, and surely this
might have been as effectually and expeditiously exerted under the usual sanction of a formal
declaration; the omission of which exposed the administration to the censure of our neighbours,
and fixed the imputation of fraud and free-booting on the beginning of the war. The ministry
was said to have delayed the ceremony of denouncing war from political considerations, supposing
that, should the French be provoked into the first declaration of this kind, the powers of
Europe would consider his most christian majesty as the aggressor, and Great Britain would
reap all the fruits of the defensive alliances in which she had engaged. But nothing could
be more weak and frivolous than such a conjecture. The aggressor is he who first violates the
peace; and every ally will interpret the aggression according to his own interest and convenience.
The administration maintained the appearance of candour in the midst of their hostilities.
The merchant ships, of which a great number had been taken from the French, were not sold and
divided among the captors, according to the practice of war; but carefully sequestered, with
all their cargoes and effects, in order to be restored to the right owners, in case the disputes
between the two nations should not be productive of an open rupture. In this particular, however,
it was a pity that a little common sense had not been blended with their honourable intention.
Great part of the cargoes consisted of fish, and other perishable commodities, which were left
to rot and putrefy, and afterwards thrown overboard, to prevent contagion; so that the owners
and captors were equally disappointed, and the value of them lost to both nations.

THE FRENCH THREATEN GREAT BRITAIN WITH AN INVASION.

The court of Versailles, while they presented remonstrances which they knew would prove ineffectual,
and exclaimed against the conduct of Great Britain with all the arts of calumny and exaggeration
at every court in Christendom, continued nevertheless to make such preparations as denoted
a design to prosecute the war with uncommon vigour. They began to repair and fortify Dunkirk;
orders were published that all British subjects should quit the dominions of France; many English
vessels were seized in the different ports of that kingdom, and their crews sent to prison.
At the same time an edict was issued, inviting the French subjects to equip privateers, offering
a premium of forty livres for every gun, and as much for every man they should take from the
enemy; and promising that, in case a peace should be speedily concluded, the king would purchase
the privateers at prime cost. They employed great numbers of artificers and seamen in equipping
a formidable squadron of ships at Brest; and assembling a strong body of land-forces, as well
as a considerable number of transports, threatened the island of Great Britain with a dangerous
invasion.

REQUISITION OF SIX THOUSAND DUTCH TROOPS.

The English people were seized with consternation; the ministry were alarmed and perplexed.
Colonel Yorke, the British resident at the Hague, was ordered by his majesty to make a requisition
of the six thousand men whom the states-general are obliged by treaty to furnish, when Great
Britain shall be threatened with an invasion; and in February he presented a memorial for this
purpose. Monsieur d'Affry, the French king's minister at the Hague, having received intimation
of this demand, produced a counter-memorial from his master, charging the English as the aggressors,
and giving the states-general plainly to understand, that, should they grant the succours demanded
by Great Britain, he would consider their compliance as an act of hostility against himself.
The Dutch, though divided among themselves by faction, were unanimously averse to any measure
that might involve them in the approaching war. Their commerce was in a great measure decayed,
and their finances were too much exhausted to admit of an immediate augmentation of their forces,
which for many other reasons they strove to avoid. They foresaw a great increase of trade in
their adhering to a punctual neutrality; they were afraid of the French by land, and jealous
of the English by sea; and perhaps enjoyed the prospect of seeing these two proud and powerful
nations humble and impoverish each other. Certain it is, the states-general protracted their
answer to Mr. Yorke's memorial by such affected delays, that the court of London perceived
their intention, and, in order to avoid the mortification of a flat denial, the king ordered
his resident to acquaint the princess regent, that he would not insist upon his demand. The
states, thus freed from their perplexity, at length delivered an answer to Mr. Yorke, in which
they expatiated on the difficulties they were laid under, and thanked his Britannic majesty
for having freed them by his declaration from that embarrassment into which they were thrown
by his first demand and the counter-memorial of the French minister. The real sentiments of
those people, however, more plainly appeared in the previous resolution delivered to the states
of Holland by the towns of Amsterdam, Dort, Haerlem, Gouda, Rotterdam, and Enckhuysen, declaring
flatly that England was uncontrovertibly the aggressor in Europe, by seizing a considerable
number of French vessels; that the threatened invasion of Great Britain did not affect the
republic's guarantee of the protestant succession, inasmuch as it was only intended to obtain
reparation for the injury sustained by the subjects of his most christian majesty; finally,
that the succours demanded could be of no advantage to the king of England, as it appeared
by the declaration of his most christian majesty; that their granting these succours would
immediately lay them under the necessity of demanding, in their turn, assistance from Great
Britain. From this way of arguing, the English may perceive what they have to expect in cases
of emergency from the friendship of their nearest allies, who must always be furnished with
the same excuse, whenever they find it convenient or necessary to their own interest. Such
a consideration, joined to other concurring motives, ought to induce the British legislature
to withdraw its dependence from all foreign connexions, and provide such a constitutional force
within itself, as will be fully sufficient to baffle all the efforts of an external enemy.
The apprehensions and distraction of the people at this juncture plainly evinced the expediency
of such a national force; but different parties were divided in their opinions about the nature
of such a provision. Some of the warmest friends of their country proposed a well regulated
militia, as an institution that would effectually answer the purpose of defending a wide extended
sea-coast from invasion; while, on the other hand, this proposal was ridiculed and refuted
as impracticable or useless by all the retainers to the court, and all the officers of the
standing army. In the meantime, as the experiment could not be immediately tried, and the present
juncture demanded some instant determination, recourse was had to a foreign remedy.

Towards the latter end of March, the king sent a written message to parliament, intimating,
that he had received repeated advices from different persons and places, that a design had
been formed by the French court to invade Great Britain or Ireland; and the great preparations
of forces, ships, artillery, and warlike stores, then notoriously making in the ports of France
opposite to the British coasts, together with the language of the French ministers in some
foreign courts, left little room to doubt the reality of such a design; that his majesty had
augmented his forces both by sea and land, and taken proper measures and precautions for putting
his kingdom in a posture of defence; that, in order further to strengthen himself, he had made
a requisition of a body of Hessian troops, pursuant to the late treaty, to be forthwith brought
over, and for that purpose ordered transports to be prepared; that he doubted not of being
enabled and supported by his parliament in taking such measures as might be conducive to an
end so essential to the honour of his crown, the preservation of the protestant religion, and
the laws and liberties of these kingdoms. This message was no sooner received, than both houses
voted, composed, and presented very warm and affectionate addresses, in which his majesty was
thanked for the requisition he had made of the Hessian troops; a measure which at any other
time would have been stigmatized with all the satire and rhetoric of the opposition.

HESSIANS AND HANOVERIANS TRANSPORTED INTO ENGLAND.

Even this precaution was not thought sufficient to secure the island, and quiet the terrors
of the people. In a few days Mr. Fox, the new minister, encouraged by the unanimity which had
appeared so conspicuous in the motions for the late addresses, ventured to move again in the
house of commons, that another address should be presented to the king, beseeching his majesty,
that for the more effectual defence of this island, and for the better security of the religion
and liberties of his subjects, against the threatened attack by a foreign enemy, he would be
graciously pleased to order twelve battalions of his electoral troops, together with the usual
detachment of artillery, to be forthwith brought into this kingdom. There was a considerable
party in the house, to whom such a motion was odious and detestable; but considering the critical
situation of affairs, they were afraid that a direct opposition might expose them to a more
odious suspicion; they therefore moved for the order of the day, and insisted on the question's
being put upon that motion; but it was carried in the negative by a considerable majority,
which also agreed to the other proposal. The resolution of the house was communicated to the
lords, who unanimously concurred; and their joint address being presented, his majesty assured
them he would immediately comply with their request. Accordingly, such expedition was used,
that in the course of the next month both Hanoverians and Hessians arrived in England, and
encamped in different parts of the kingdom.--As the fears of an invasion subsided in the minds
of the people, their antipathy to these foreign auxiliaries emerged. They were beheld with
the eyes of jealousy, suspicion, and disdain. They were treated with contempt, reserve, and
rigour. The ministry was execrated for having reduced the nation to such a low circumstance
of disgrace, as that they should owe their security to German mercenaries. There were not wanting
some incendiaries, who circulated hints and insinuations, that the kingdom had been purposely
left unprovided; and that the natives of South Britain had been formerly subdued and expelled
by a body of Saxon auxiliaries, whom they had hired for their preservation. In a word, the
doubts and suspicions of a people naturally blunt and jealous, were inflamed to such a degree
of animosity, that nothing would have restrained them from violent acts of outrage, but the
most orderly, modest, and inoffensive behaviour by which both the Hanoverians and Hessians
were distinguished.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

FRENCH PREPARATIONS AT TOULON.

Under the cloak of an invading armament, which engrossed the attention of the British nation,
the French were actually employed in preparations for an expedition, which succeeded according
to their wish. In the beginning of the year, advice was received that a French squadron would
soon be in a condition to sail from Toulon; this was afterwards confirmed by repeated intelligence,
not only from foreign gazettes, but also from English ministers and consuls residing in Spain
and Italy. They affirmed that the Toulon squadron consisted of twelve or fifteen ships of the
line, with a great number of transports; that they were supplied with provisions for two months
only, consequently could not be intended for America; and that strong bodies of troops were
on their march from different parts of the French dominions to Dauphiné and Provence in order
to be embarked. Notwithstanding these particulars of information, which plainly pointed out
Minorca as the object of their expedition; notwithstanding the extensive and important commerce
carried on by the subjects of Great Britain in the Mediterranean; no care was taken to send
thither a squadron of ships capable to protect the trade, and frustrate the designs of the
enemy. That great province was left to a few inconsiderable ships and frigates, which could
serve no other purpose than that of carrying intelligence from port to port, and enriching
their commanders by making prize of merchant vessels. Nay, the ministry seemed to pay little
or no regard to the remonstrances of general Blakeney, deputy governor of Minorca, who, in
repeated advices, represented the weakness of the garrison which he commanded in St. Philip's
castle, the chief fortress on the island. Far from strengthening the garrison with a proper
reinforcement, they did not even send thither the officers belonging to it, who were in England
upon leave of absence, nor give directions for any vessel to transport them, until the French
armament was ready to make a descent upon that island. [372] [See note 2 Z, at the end of this Vol]

ADMIRAL BYNG SAILS FOR THE MEDITERRANEAN.

At length, the destination of the enemy's fleet being universally known, the ministry seemed
to rouse from their lethargy, and, like persons suddenly waking, acted with hurry and precipitation.
Instead of detaching a squadron that in all respects should be superior to the French fleet
in the Mediterranean, and bestowing the command of it upon an officer of approved courage and
activity, they allotted no more than ten ships of the line for this service, vesting the command
of them in admiral Byng, who had never met with any occasion to signalize his courage, and
whose character was not very popular in the navy; but Mr. West, the second in command, was
a gentleman universally respected for his probity, ability, and resolution. The ten ships destined
for this expedition were but in very indifferent order, poorly manned, and unprovided with
either hospital or fire-ship. They sailed from Spithead on the seventh day of April, having
on board, as part of their complement, a regiment of soldiers to be landed at Gibraltar, with
major-general Stuart, lord Effingham, and colonel Cornwallis, whose regiments were in garrison
at Minorca, about forty inferior officers, and near one hundred recruits, as a reinforcement
to St. Philip's fortress.

ADMIRAL BYNG ARRIVES AT GIBRALTAR.

After all the intelligence which had been received, one would imagine the government of England
was still ignorant of the enemy's force and destination; for the instructions delivered to
admiral Byng, imported, that on his arrival at Gibraltar, he should inquire whether any French
squadron had passed through the straits; and that, being certified in the affirmative, as it
was probably designed for North America, he should immediately detach rear-admiral West to
Louisbourg, on the island of cape Breton, with such a number of ships, as, when joined with
those at Halifax, would constitute a force superior to the armament of the enemy. On the second
day of May, admiral Byng arrived at Gibraltar, where he found captain Edgecumbe, with the Princess
Louisa ship of war, and a sloop, who informed him that the French armament, commanded by M.
de la Galissonniere, consisting of thirteen ships of the line, with a great number of transports,
having on board a body of fifteen thousand land-forces, had sailed from Toulon on the tenth
day of April, and made a descent on the island of Minorca, from whence he, captain Edgecumbe,
had been obliged to retire on their approach. General Fowke, who commanded at Gibraltar, had
received two successive orders from the secretary at war, with respect to his sparing a battalion
of troops, to be transported by Mr. Byng, as a reinforcement to Minorca; but as the two orders
appeared inconsistent or equivocal, a council of war was consulted, and a majority were of
opinion that no troops should be sent from thence to Minorca, except a detachment to supply
the deficiency in the little squadron of captain Edgecumbe, who had left a good number of his
seamen and mariners, under the command of captain Scroop, to assist in the defence of fort
St. Philip's. These articles of intelligence the admiral despatched by an express to the lords
of the admiralty, and in his letter made use of some impolitic expressions, which, in all probability,
it would have been well for him had he omitted. He said, if he had been so happy as to have
arrived at Mahon before the French had landed, he flattered himself he should have been able
to prevent their getting a footing on that island. He complained, that there were no magazines
in Gibraltar for supplying the squadron with necessaries; that the careening wharfs, pits,
and store-houses were entirely decayed, so that he should find the greatest difficulty in cleaning
the ships that were foul; and this was the case with some of those he carried out from England,
as well as with those which had been for some time cruising in the Mediterranean. He signified
his opinion, that, even if it should be found practicable, it would be very impolitic to throw
any men into St. Philip's castle, which could not be saved without a land-force sufficient
to raise the seige; therefore, a small reinforcement would only add so many men to the number
which must fall into the hands of the enemy. He observed, that such engineers and artillery-men
in Gibraltar as had been at Minorca, were of opinion that it would be impossible to throw any
number of men into St. Philip's, if the French had erected batteries on the two shores near
the entrance of the harbour, so as to bar all passage up to the sally-port of the fortress;
and with this opinion he signified the concurrence of his own sentiments. The first part of
this letter was a downright impeachment of the ministry, for having delayed the expedition,
for having sent out ships unfit for service, and for having neglected the magazines and wharfs
at Gibraltar. In the latter part he seemed to prepare them for the subsequent account of his
misconduct and miscarriage. It cannot be supposed that they underwent this accusation without
apprehension and resentment; and as they foresaw the loss of Minorca, which would not fail
to excite a national clamour, perhaps they now began to take measures for gratifying their
resentment, and transferring the blame from themselves to the person who had presumed to hint
a disapprobation of their conduct: for this purpose they could not have found a fairer opportunity
than Mr. Byng's subsequent behaviour afforded.

HE ENGAGES M. DE LA GALISSONNIERE OFF MINORCA.

The admiral being strengthened by Mr. Edgecumbe, and reinforced by a detachment from the garrison,
set sail from Gibraltar on the eighth day of May, and was joined off Majorca by his majesty's
ship the Phoenix, under the command of captain Hervey, who confirmed the intelligence he had
already received, touching the strength and destination of the French squadron. When he approached
Minorca, he descried the British colours still flying at the castle of St. Philip's, and several
bomb-batteries playing upon it from different quarters where the French banners were displayed.
Thus informed, he detached three ships a-head, with captain Hervey, to reconnoitre the harbour's
mouth, and land, if possible, a letter for general Blakeney, giving him to understand the fleet
was come to his assistance. Before this attempt could be made, the French fleet appearing to
the south-cast, and the wind blowing strong off shore, he recalled his ships, and formed the
line of battle. About six o'clock in the evening, the enemy, to the number of seventeen ships,
thirteen of which appeared to be very large, advanced in order; but about seven tacked, with
a view to gain the weather-gage. Mr. Byng, in order to preserve that advantage, as well as
to make sure of the land-wind in the morning, followed their example, being then about five
leagues from Cape Mola. At daylight the enemy could not be descried; but two tartanes appearing
close to the rear of the English squadron, they were immediately chased by signal. One escaped,
and the other being taken, was found to have on board two French captains, two lieutenants,
and about one hundred private soldiers, part of six hundred who had been sent out in tartanes
the preceding day, to reinforce the enemy's squadron. This soon re-appearing, the line of battle
was formed on each side, and about two o'clock admiral Byng threw out a signal to bear away
two points from the wind and engage. At this time his distance from the enemy was so great,
that rear-admiral West, perceiving it impossible to comply with both orders, bore away with
his division seven points from the wind, and closing down upon the enemy, attacked them with
such impetuosity, that the ships which opposed him were in a little time driven out of the
line. Had he been properly sustained by the van, in all probability the British fleet would
have obtained a complete victory; but the other division did not bear down, and the enemy's
centre keeping that station, rear-admiral West could not pursue his advantage without running
the risk of seeing his communication with the rest of the line entirely cut off. In the beginning
of the action, the Intrepid, in Mr. Byng's division, was so disabled in her rigging that she
could not be managed, and drove on the ship that was next in position; a circumstance which
obliged several others to throw all aback in order to avoid confusion, and for some time retarded
the action. Certain it is, that Mr. Byng, though accommodated with a noble ship of ninety guns,
made little or no use of his artillery, but kept aloof, either from an overstrained observance
of discipline, or timidity. When his captain exhorted him to bear down upon the enemy, he very
coolly replied, that he would avoid the error of admiral Matthews, who, in his engagement with
the French and Spanish squadrons off Toulon, during the preceding war, had broke the line by
his own precipitation, and exposed himself singly to a fire which he could not sustain. Mr.
Byng, on the contrary, was determined against acting, except with the line entire; and, on
pretence of rectifying the disorder which had happened among some of the ships, hesitated so
long, and kept at such a wary distance, that he never was properly engaged, though he received
some few shots in his hull. M. de la Galissionniere seemed equally averse to the continuance
of the battle; part of his squadron had been fairly obliged to quit the line; and though he
was rather superior to the English in number of men and weight of metal, he did not choose
to abide the consequence of a closer fight with an enemy so expert in naval operations: he
therefore took advantage of Mr. Byng's hesitation, and edged away with an easy sail to join
his van, which had been discomfited. The English admiral gave chase; but the French ships being
clean, he could not come up and close them again, so they retired at their leisure. Then he
put his squadron on the other tack, in order to keep the wind of the enemy; and next morning
they were altogether out of sight.

While he lay-to with the rest of the fleet, at the distance of ten leagues from Mahon, he detached
cruisers to look for some missing ships, which joined him accordingly, and made an inquiry
into the condition of the squadron. The number of killed amounted to forty-two, including captain
Andrews of the Defiance, and about one hundred and sixty-eight were wounded. Three of the capital
ships were so damaged in their masts, that they could not keep the sea with any regard to their
safety; a great number of the seamen were ill, and there was no vessel which could be converted
into an hospital for the sick and wounded. In this situation he called a council of war, at
which the land-officers were present. He represented to them that he was much inferior to the
enemy in weight of metal and number of men; that they had the advantage of sending their wounded
to Minorca, from whence at the same time they were refreshed and reinforced occasionally; that
in his opinion it was impracticable to relieve St. Philip's fort, and, therefore, they ought
to make the best of their way back to Gibraltar, which might require immediate protection.
They unanimously concurred with his sentiments, and thither he directed his course accordingly.
How he came to be so well acquainted with the impracticability of relieving general Blakeney,
it is not easy to determine, as no experiment was made for that purpose. Indeed, the neglect
of such a trial seems to have been the least excusable part of his conduct; for it afterwards
appeared that the officers and soldiers belonging to the garrison might have been landed at
the sally-port, without running any great risk; and a gentleman, then in the fort, actually
passed and repassed in a boat, unhurt by any of the enemy's batteries.

Mr. Byng's letter to the admiralty, containing a detail of this action, is said to have arrived
some days before it was made public; and when it appeared, was curtailed of divers expressions,
and whole paragraphs, which either tended to his own justification, or implied a censure on
the conduct of his superiors. Whatever use might have been made of this letter while it remained
a secret to the public, we shall not pretend to explain; but sure it is, that, on the sixteenth
day of June, sir Edward Hawke and admiral Saunders sailed from Spit-head to Gibraltar, to supersede
the admirals Byng and West in their commands of the Mediterranean squadron; and Mr. Byng's
letter was not published till the twenty-sixth day of the same month, when it produced all
the effect which that gentleman's bitterest enemies could have desired. The populace took fire
like a train of the most hasty combustibles, and broke out into such a clamour of rage and
indignation against the devoted admiral, as could not have been exceeded if he had lost the
whole navy of England, and left the coasts of the kingdom naked to invasion. This animosity
was carefully fomented and maintained by artful emissaries, who mingled with all public assemblies,
from the drawing-room in St. James' to the mob at Charing-cross. They expatiated upon the insolence,
the folly, the cowardice, and misconduct of the unhappy admiral. They even presumed to make
their sovereign in some measure an instrument of their calumny, by suggesting, that his majesty
had prognosticated Byng's misbehaviour from the contents of his first letter, dated at Gibraltar.
They ridiculed and refuted the reasons he had given for returning to that fortress, after his
scandalous re-encounter with the French squadron; and, in order to exasperate them to the most
implacable resentment, they exaggerated the terrible consequences of losing Minorca, which
must now be subdued through his treachery or want of resolution. In a word, he was devoted
as the scape-goat of the ministry, to whose supine negligence, ignorance, and misconduct, the
loss of that important fortress was undoubtedly owing. Byng's miscarriage was thrown out like
a barrel to the whale, in order to engage the attention of the people, that it might not be
attracted by the real cause of the national misfortune. In order to keep up the flame which
had been kindled against the admiral, recourse was had to the lowest artifices. Agents were
employed to vilify his person in all public places of vulgar resort, and mobs were hired at
different parts of the capital to hang and burn him in effigy.

ADMIRAL BYNG SUPERSEDED AND SENT HOME PRISONER.

The two officers who succeeded to the command in the Mediterranean, were accompanied by lord
Tyrawley, whom his majesty had appointed to supersede general Fowke in the government of Gibraltar,
that gentleman having incurred the displeasure of the ministry, for not having understood an
order which was unintelligible. By the same conveyance, a letter from the secretary to the
admiralty was transmitted to Mr. Byng, giving him notice that he was recalled. To this intimation
he replied in such a manner as denoted a consciousness of having done his duty, and a laudable
desire to vindicate his own conduct. His answer contained a further account of the engagement
in which he was supposed to have misbehaved, intermixed with some puerile calculations of the
enemy's superiority in weight of metal, which served no other purpose than that of exposing
his character still more to ridicule and abuse; and he was again so impolitic as to hazard
certain expressions, which added fresh fuel to the resentment of his enemies. Directions were
immediately despatched to sir Edward Hawke, that Byng should be sent home in arrest; and an
order to the same purpose was lodged at every port in the kingdom; precautions which, however
unnecessary to secure the person of a man who longed ardently to justify his character by a
public trial, were yet productive of considerable effect in augmenting the popular odium. Admiral
Byng immediately embarked in the ship which had carried out his successor, and was accompanied
by Mr. West, general Fowke, and several other officers of that garrison, who were also recalled,
in consequence of having subscribed to the result of the council of war, which we have mentioned
above. When they arrived in England, Mr. West met with such a gracious reception from his majesty
as was thought due to his extraordinary merit; but Mr. Byng was committed close prisoner in
an apartment of Greenwich hospital.

ACCOUNT OF THE SIEGE OF ST. PHILIP'S FORT IN MINORCA.

In the meantime, the siege of St. Philip's fort in Minorca was prosecuted with unremitting
vigour. The armament of Toulon, consisting of the fleet commanded by M. de la Galissonniere,
and the troops under the duke de Richelieu, arrived on the eighteenth day of April at the port
of Ciudadella, on that part of the island opposite to Mahon, or St. Philip's, and immediately
began to disembark their forces. Two days before they reached the island, general Blakeney
had, by a packet boat, received certain intelligence of their approach, and began to make preparations
for the defence of the castle. The fort which he commanded was very extensive, surrounded with
numerous redoubts, ravelins, and other outworks; and provided with subterranean galleries,
mines, and traverses, Cut out of the solid rock with incredible labour. Upon the whole, this
was one of the best fortified places in Europe, well supplied with artillery, ammunition, and
provisions; and, without all doubt, might have sustained the most desperate siege, had it been
defended by a numerous garrison, conducted by able engineers, under the eye and auspices of
an active and skilful commander. All these advantages, however, did not concur on this occasion.
The number of troops in Minorca did not exceed four regiments, whereas the nature of the works
required at least double the number; and even of these, above forty officers were absent. The
chief engineer was rendered lame by the gout, and the general himself oppressed with the infirmities
of old age. The natives of the island might have been serviceable as pioneers, or day-labourers,
but from their hatred to the protestant religion, they were generally averse to the English
government, although they had lived happily and grown wealthy under its influence.

PRECAUTIONS taken by GENERAL BLAKENEY.

The governor ordered his officers to beat up for volunteers in the adjacent town of St. Philip's;
but few or none would enlist under his banners, and it seems he would not venture to compel
them into the service. He recalled all his advanced parties; and, in particular, a company
posted at Fornelles, where a small redoubt had been raised, and five companies at Ciudadella,
a post fortified with two pieces of cannon, which were now withdrawn as soon as the enemy began
to disembark their forces. At the same time major Cunningham was detached with a party to break
down the bridges, and break up the roads between that place and St. Philip's; but the task
of destroying the roads could not be performed in such a hurry, on account of the hard rock
which runs along the surface of the ground through this whole island; nor was there time to
demolish the town of St. Philip's, which stood so near the fort, that the enemy could not fail
to take advantage of its neighbourhood. The streets served them for trenches, which otherwise
could not have been dug through the solid rock. Here they made a lodgement close to the works;
here they found convenient barracks and quarters of refreshment, masks for their batteries,
and an effectual cover for their mortars and bombardiers. The general has been blamed for leaving
the town standing; but if we consider his uncertainty concerning the destination of the French
armament, the odious nature of such a precaution, which could not fail to exasperate the inhabitants,
and the impossibility of executing such a scheme after the first appearance of the enemy, he
will be found excusable, if not altogether blameless. Some houses and windmills were actually
demolished, so as to clear the esplanade and the approaches. All the wine in the cellars of
St. Philip's town was destroyed, and the butts were carried into the castle, where they might
serve for gabions and traverses. Five-and-twenty Minorquin bakers were hired, and a large number
of cattle brought into the fort, for the benefit of the garrison. The ports were walled up,
the posts assigned, the sentinels placed, and all the different guards appointed. Commodore
Edgecumbe, who then anchored in the harbour of Mahon close under the walls of the castle, sailed
away with his little squadron, consisting of the Chesterfield, Princess Louisa, Portland, and
Dolphin, after having left all his marines, a detachment from Gibraltar, the whole crew of
the Porcupine sloop, and the greater part of the Dolphin's, as a reinforcement to the fort,
under the immediate direction and command of captain Scroop of the Dolphin, who, with great
gallantry, offered himself for this severe duty, and bravely signalized himself during the
whole siege. The French admiral might certainly have blocked up this harbour in such a manner,
as would have prevented the escape of these ships, and divers other rich merchant vessels,
which happened then to be at Mahon; but in all probability, they purposely allowed them to
abandon the place, which, on any emergency or assault, their crews and officers would have
considerably reinforced. The enemy were perfectly acquainted with the great extent of the works,
and the weakness of the garrison, from which circumstance they derived the most sanguine hopes
that the place might be suddenly taken, without the trouble of a regular siege. After Mr. Edgecumbe
had sailed from Gibraltar, and general Blakeney had ordered a sloop to be sunk in the channel
that leads to the harbour, the French squadron made its appearance at this part of the island;
but without having attempted anything against the fort, fell to leeward of Cape Mola. Next
day they came in sight again, but soon bore away, and never afterwards, during the whole course
of the siege, approached so near as to give the garrison the least disturbance.

On the twenty-second day of April, the governor sent a drummer to the French general with a
letter, desiring to know his reasons for invading the island. To this an answer was returned
by the duke de Richelieu, declaring he was come with intention to reduce the island under the
dominion of his most christian majesty, by way of retaliation for the conduct of his master,
who had seized and detained the ships belonging to the king of France and his subjects. If
we may judge from the first operations of this nobleman, he was but indifferently provided
with engineers; for instead of beginning his approaches on the side of St. Philip's town, close
by the outworks, where he might have been screened from the fire of the garrison, his batteries
were erected at Cape Mola, on the other side of the harbour, where they were more exposed,
their fire much less effectual, and indeed at too great a distance to be of any service. The
fire of St. Philip's was so severe, and the cannon so well served on this quarter, that in
a little time the enemy thought proper to change their plan of attack, and advance on the side
of St. Philip's town, which ought to have been the first object of their consideration, especially
as they could find little or no earth to fill their gabions, and open their trenches in the
usual form. On the twelfth of May, about nine at night, they opened two bomb-batteries, near
the place where the windmills had been destroyed; and from that period an incessant fire was
kept up on both sides, from mortars and cannon, the French continuing to raise new batteries
in every situation from whence they could annoy the besieged.

On the seventeenth day of the month, the garrison were transported with joy at sight of the
British squadron, commanded by admiral Byng; and Mr. Boyd, commissary of the stores, ventured
to embark in a small boat, with six oars, which passed from St. Stephen's cove, a creek on
the west side of the fortification, through a shower of cannon and musketry from the enemy's
post on the other side, and actually reached the open sea, his design being to join the squadron;
but this being at a great distance, stretching away to the southward, and Mr. Boyd perceiving
himself chased by two of the enemy's light vessels, he returned oy the same route to the garrison,
without having sustained the least damage; a circumstance which plainly confutes the notion
of Mr. Byng, that it was impracticable to open a communication with the garrison of St. Philip's.
Next day the hopes of the besieged, which had prognosticated a naval victory to the British
squadron, a speedy relief to themselves, and no less than captivity to the assailants, were
considerably damped by the appearance of the French fleet, which quietly returned to their
station off the harbour of Mahon. That same evening they were told by a deserter, that the
English fleet had been worsted in an engagement by M. de la Galissonniere; and this information
was soon confirmed by a general discharge, or feu-de-joie, through the whole French camp, to
celebrate the victory they pretended to have obtained. How little soever they had reason to
boast of any advantage in the action, the retreat of the English squadron was undoubtedly equivalent
to a victory; for had Mr. Byng acquired and maintained the superiority at sea, the French forces
which had been disembarked in Minorca, would, in all probability, have been obliged to surrender
prisoners of war to his Britannic majesty. The case was now much altered in their favour: their
squadron cruised about the island without molestation, and they daily received, by means of
their transports, reinforcements of men and ammunition, as well as constant supplies of provisions.

The English garrison, however mortified at finding themselves thus abandoned, resolved to acquit
themselves with gallantry in the defence of the place, not without some remaining hope that
the English squadron would be reinforced and return to their relief. In the meantime, they
sustained and retorted the enemy's fire with undaunted resolution. They remounted cannon, the
carriages of which had been disabled; they removed them occasionally to places from whence
it was judged they could do the greatest execution; they repaired breaches, restored merlins,
and laboured with surprising alacrity, even when they were surrounded by the numerous batteries
of the foe; when their embrasures and even the parapets were demolished, and they stood exposed
not only to the cannon and mortars, but also to the musketry which fired upon them without
ceasing, from the windows of the houses in the town of St. Philip. By this time they were invested
with an army of twenty thousand men, and plied incessantly from sixty-two battering cannon,
twenty-one mortars, and four howitzers, besides the small arms; nevertheless, the loss of men
within the fortress was very inconsiderable, the garrison being mostly secured in the subterranean
works which were impenetrable to shells or shot. By the twenty-seventh day of June they had
made a practicable breach in one of the ravelins, and damaged the other outworks to such a
degree, that they determined this night to give a general assault. Accordingly, between the
hours of ten and eleven, they advanced to the attack from all quarters on the land side. At
the same time a strong detachment, in armed boats, attempted to force the harbour, and penetrate
into the creek called St. Stephen's Cove, to storm fort Charles, and second the attack upon
fort Marlborough, on the farther side of the creek, the most detached of all the outworks.
The enemy advanced with great intrepedity, and their commander, the duke de Richelieu, is said
to have led them up the works in person. Such an assault could not but be attended with great
slaughter; they were mowed down as they approached, with grape shot and musketry; and several
mines were sprung with great effect, so that the glacis was almost covered with the dying and
the dead. Nevertheless, they persevered with uncommon resolution; and though repulsed on every
other side, at length made a lodgement in the queen's redoubt, which had been greatly damaged
by their cannon. Whether their success in this quarter was owing to the weakness of the place,
or to the timidity of the defender, certain it is, the enemy were in possession before it was
known to the officers of the garrison; for lieutenant-colonel Jeffries the second in command,
who had acquitted himself since the beginning of the siege with equal courage, skill, and activity,
in his visitation of this post, was suddenly surrounded and taken by a file of French grenadiers,
at a time when he never dreamed they had made a lodgement. Major Cunningham, who accompanied
him, met with a severer fate, though he escaped captivity; he was run through the arm with
a bayonet, and the piece being discharged at the same time, shattered the bones of his hand
in such a manner, that he was maimed for life. In this shocking condition he retired behind
a traverse, and was carried home to his quarters. Thus the governor was deprived of his two
principal assistants, one being taken, and the other disabled.

The enemy having made themselves masters of Anstruther's and the queen's redoubts, from which
perhaps they might have been dislodged, had a vigorous effort been made for that purpose before
they had leisure to secure themselves; the duke de Richelieu ordered a parley to be beat, in
order to obtain permission to bury the dead, and remove the wounded. This request was granted
with more humanity than discretion, inasmuch as the enemy took this opportunity to throw a
reinforcement of men privately into the places where the lodgements had been made, and these
penetrated into the gallery of the mines, which communicated with all the other outworks. During
this short cessation, general Blakeney summoned a council of war to deliberate upon the state
of the fort and garrison; and the majority declared for a capitulation. The works were in many
places rained; the body of the castle was shattered; many guns were dismounted, the embrasures
and parapets demolished, the palisadoes broken in pieces, the garrison exhausted with hard
duty and incessant watching, and the enemy in possession of the subterranean communications.
Besides, the governor had received information from prisoners, that the duke de Richelieu was
alarmed by a report that the marshal duke de Belleisle would be sent to supersede him in the
command, and for that reason would hazard another desperate assault, which it was the opinion
of the majority the garrison could not sustain. These considerations, added to the despair
of being relieved, induced him to demand a capitulation. But this measure was not taken with
the unanimous consent of the council. Some officers observed, that the garrison was very little
diminished, and still in good spirits; that no breach was made in the body of the castle, nor
a single cannon erected to batter in breach; that the loss of an outwork was never deemed a
sufficient reason for surrendering such a fortress; that the counterscarp was not yet taken,
nor, on account of the rocky soil, could be taken, except by assault, which would cost the
enemy a greater number than they had lost in their late attempt; that they could not attack
the ditch, or batter in breach, before the counterscarp should be taken, and even then they
must have recourse to galleries before they could pass the fosse, which was furnished with
mines and countermines; finally, they suggested, that in all probability the British squadron
would be reinforced, and sail back to their relief; or if it should not return, it was the
duty of the governor to defend the place to extremity, without having any regard to the consequences.
These remarks being overruled, the chamade was beat, a conference ensued, and very honourable
conditions were granted to the garrison, in consideration of the gallant defence they had made.
This it must be owned was vigorous while it lasted, as the French general was said to have
lost five thousand men in the siege; whereas the loss of the garrison, which at first fell
short of three thousand men, did not exceed one hundred. The capitulation imported, that the
garrison should march out with all the honours of war, and be conveyed by sea to Gibraltar.
The French were put in possession of one gate, as well as fort Charles and Marlborough redoubt;
but the English troops remained in the other works till the seventh day of July, when they
embarked. In the meantime reciprocal civilities passed between the commanders and officers
of both nations.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

SIR E. HAWKE SAILS TO MINORCA.

The articles of capitulation were no sooner executed, than monsieur de la Galissonniere sailed
back to Toulon, with all the prizes which had lain at anchor in the harbour of Matron, since
the fort of St. Philip was first invested. In all probability, the safety of himself and his
whole squadron was owing to this expeditious retreat; for in a few days after the surrender
of the fort, sir Edward Hawke's fleet, augmented by five ships of the line, which had been
sent from England when the first tidings arrived of Minorca's being invaded, now made its appearance
off the island; but by this time Galissonniere was retired, and the English admiral had the
mortification to see the French colours flying upon St. Philip's castle. What, perhaps, chagrined
this gallant officer still more, he was not provided with frigates, sloops, and small craft,
to cruise round the island and intercept the supplies which were daily sent to the enemy. Had
he reached Minorca sooner, he might have discomfited the French squadron; but he could not
have raised the siege of St. Philip's, because the duke de Richelieu had received his reinforcements,
and such a train of artillery as no fortification could long withstand. Indeed, if the garrison
had been considerably reinforced, and the communication with it opened by sea, the defence
would have been protracted, and so many vigorous sallies might have been made, that the assailants
would have had cause to repent of their enterprise.

When the news of this conquest was brought to Versailles, by the count of Egmont, whom the
duke de Richelieu had dispatched for that purpose, the people of France were transported with
the most extravagant joy. Nothing was seen but triumphs and processions, nothing heard but
anthems, congratulations, and hyperbolical encomiums upon the conqueror of Minorca, who was
celebrated in a thousand poems and studied orations; while the conduct of the English was vilified
and ridiculed in ballads, farces, and pasquinades. Nothing more argues the degeneracy of a
warlike nation than the pride of such mean triumph, for an advantage, which, in more vigorous
times, would scarce have been distinguished by the ceremony of a Te Deum Laudamus. Nor is this
childish exultation, that disgraces the laurels of victory, confined to the kingdom of France.
Truth obliges us to own, that even the subjects of Great Britain are apt to be elevated by
success into an illiberal insolence of self-applause, and contemptuous comparison. This must
be condemned as a proof of unmanly arrogance, and absurd self-conceit, by all those who coolly
reflect that the events of war generally, if not always, depend upon the genius or misconduct
of one individual. The loss of Minorca was severely felt in England, as a national disgrace;
but, instead of producing dejection and despondence, it excited an universal clamour of rage
and resentment, not only against Mr. Byng, who had retreated from the French squadron; but
also in reproach of the administration, which was taxed with having neglected the security
of Minorca. Nay, some politicians were inflamed into a suspicion, that this important place
had been negatively betrayed into the hands of the enemy, that in case the arms of Great Britain
should prosper in other parts of the world, the French king might have some sort of equivalent
to restore for the conquests which should be abandoned at the peace. This notion, however,
seems to have been conceived from prejudice and party, which now began to appear with the most
acrimonious aspect, not only throughout the united kingdoms in general, but even in the sovereign's
councils.

GALLANTRY OF FORTUNATUS WRIGHT.

Sir Edward Hawke, being disappointed in his hope of encountering La Galissonniere, and relieving
the English garrison of St. Philip's, at least asserted the empire of Great Britain in the
Mediterranean, by annoying the commerce of the enemy, and blocking up the squadron in the harbour
of Toulon. Understanding that the Austrian government at Leghorn had detained an English privateer,
and imprisoned the captain, on pretence that he had violated the neutrality of the port, he
detached two ships of war, to insist, in a peremptory manner, on the release of the ship, effects,
crew, and captain; and they thought proper to comply with this demand, even without waiting
for orders from the court of Vienna. The person in whose behalf the admiral thus interposed,
was one Fortunatus Wright, a native of Liverpool; who, though a stranger to a sea life, had
in the last war equipped a privateer, and distinguished himself in such a manner by his uncommon
vigilance and valour, that, if he had been indulged with a command suitable to his genius,
he would have deserved as honourable a place in the annals of the navy, as that which the French
have bostowed upon their boasted Guai Trouin, Du Bart, and Thurot. An uncommon exertion of
spirit was the occasion of his being detained at this juncture. While he lay at anchor in the
harbour of Leghorn, commander of the St. George privateer of Liverpool, a small ship of twelve
guns and eighty men, a large French xebeque, mounted with sixteen cannon, and nearly three
times the number of his complement, chose her station in view of the harbour, in order to interrupt
the British commerce. The gallant Wright could not endure this insult: notwithstanding the
enemy's superiority in metal and number of men, he weighed anchor, hoisted his sails, engaged
him within sight of the shore, and after a very obstinate dispute, in which the captain, lieutenant,
and above threescore of the men belonging to the xebeque were killed on the spot, he obliged
them to sheer off, and returned to the harbour in triumph. This brave corsair would, no doubt,
have signalized himself by many other exploits, had he not, in the sequel, been overtaken in
the midst of his career by a dreadful storm, in which the ship foundering, he and all his crew
perished.

GENERAL BLAKENEY CREATED A BARON.

Sir Edward Hawke, having scoured the Mediterranean, and insulted the enemy's ports, returned
with the home-ward bound trade to Gibraltar; from whence about the latter end of the year he
set sail for England with part of his squadron, leaving the rest in that bay for the protection
of our commerce, which, in those parts, soon began to suffer extremely from French privateers
that now swarmed in the Mediterranean. General Blakeney had arrived, with the garrison of Minorca,
at Portsmouth, in the month of November, and been received with expressions of tumultuous joy:
every place through which he passed celebrated his return with bonfires, illuminations, bell-ringing,
and acclamations: every mouth was opened in his praise, extolling him for the gallant defence
he had made in the castle of St. Philip. In a word, the people's veneration for Blakeney increased
in proportion to their abhorrence of Byng: the first was lifted into an idol of admiration,
while the other sunk into an object of reproach; and they were viewed at different ends of
a false perspective, through the medium of prejudice and passion; of a perspective artfully
contrived, and applied by certain ministers for the purposes of self-interest and deceit. The
sovereign is said to have been influenced by the prepossession of the secret. Mr. Blakeney
met with a gracious reception from his majesty, who raised him to the rank of an Irish baron
in consideration of his faithful services, while some malcontents murmured at this mark of
favour, as an unreasonable sacrifice to popular misapprehension.

MEASURES TAKEN FOR THE DEFENCE OF GREAT BRITAIN.

In the beginning of the year, the measures taken by the government in England seem to have
been chiefly dictated by the dread of an invasion, from which the ministers did not think themselves
secured by the guard-ships and cruisers on different parts of the coast, or the standing army
of the kingdom, though reinforced by the two bodies of German auxiliaries. A considerable number
of new troops was levied; the success of recruiting was not only promoted by the land-holders
throughout the kingdom, who thought their estates were at stake, and for that reason encouraged
their dependents to engage in the service; but also in a great measure owing to a dearth of
corn, which reduced the lower class of labourers to such distress, that some insurrections
were raised, and many enlisted with a view to obtain a livelihood, which otherwise they could
not earn. New ships of war were built, and daily put in commission; but it was found impracticable
to man them, without having recourse to the odious and illegal practice of impressing sailors,
which must always be a reproach to every free people. Notwithstanding large bounties, granted
by the government to volunteers, it was found necessary to lay an embargo upon all shipping,
and impress all the seamen that could be found, without any regard to former protections; so
that all the merchant ships were stripped of their hands, and foreign commerce for some time
wholly suspended. Nay, the expedient of compelling men into the service was carried to an unusual
degree of oppression; for rewards were publicly offered to those who should discover where
any seamen lay concealed; so that those unhappy people were in some respects treated like felons,
dragged from their families and connexions to confinement, mutilation, and death, and totally
cut off from the enjoyment of that liberty which, perhaps at the expense of their lives, their
own arms had helped to preserve, in favour of their ungrateful country.*

     * At this juncture, a number of public spirited merchants of
     the city of London, and others, formed themselves into a
     very laudable association, under the name of the Marine
     Society, and contributed considerable sums of money for
     equipping such orphans, friendless, and forlorn boys, as
     were willing to engage in the service of the navy. In
     consequence of this excellent plan, which was executed with
     equal zeal and discretion, many thousands were rescued from
     misery, and rendered useful members of that society, of
     which they must have been the bane and reproach, without
     this humane interposition.

About eighty ships of the line and three-score frigates were already equipped, and considerable
bodies of land-forces assembled, when, on the third day of February, a proclamation was issued,
requiring all officers, civil and military, upon the first appearance of any hostile attempt
to land upon the coasts of the kingdom, immediately to cause all horses, oxen, or cattle, which
might be fit for draught or burden, and not actually employed in the king's service, or in
the defence of the country, and also (so far as might be practicable) all other cattle and
provisions, to be driven and removed twenty miles at least from the place where such hostile
attempt should be made, and to secure the same, so as that they might not fall into the hands
or power of those who should make such attempt: regard being had, however, that the respective
owners should suffer as little damage as might be consistent with the public safety.

EARL OF LOUDON APPOINTED COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF IN AMERICA.

As the ministry were determined to make their chief efforts against the enemy in North America,
where the first hostilities had been committed, and where the strongest impression could be
made, a detachment of two regiments was sent thither under the conduct of general Abercrombie,
appointed as successor to general Shirley, whom they recalled, as a person nowise qualified
to conduct military operations; nor, indeed, could any success in war be expected from a man
who had not been trained to arms, nor ever acted but in a civil capacity. But the command in
chief of all the forces in America was conferred upon the earl of Loudon, a nobleman of an
amiable character, who had already distinguished himself in the service of his country. Over
and above this command, he was now appointed governor of Virginia, and colonel of a royal American
regiment, consisting of four battalions, to be raised in that country, and disciplined by officers
of experience invited from foreign service. Mr. Abercrombie set sail for America in March;
but the earl of Loudon, who directed in chief the plan of operations, and was vested with power
and authority-little inferior to those of a viceroy, did not embark till the latter end of May.

HIS BRITANNIC MAJESTY'S DECLARATION OF WAR.

All these previous measures being taken, his majesty, in the course of the same month, thought
proper to publish a declaration of war [378] [See note 3 A, at the end of this Vol.] against
the French king, importing, that since the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, the usurpations and encroachments
made upon the British territories, in America, had been notorious; that his Britannic majesty
had, in divers serious representations to the court of Versailles, complained of these repeated
acts of violence, and demanded satisfaction; but notwithstanding the repeated assurances given
by the French king, that every thing should be settled agreeably to the treaties subsisting
between the two crowns, and particularly that the evacuation of the four neutral islands in
the West Indies should be effected, the execution of these assurances, and of the treaties
on which they were founded, had been evaded under the most frivolous pretences; that the unjustifiable
practices of the French governors, and officers acting under their authority, were still continued,
until they broke out in open acts of hostility, in the year one thousand seven hundred and
fifty-four; when, in time of profound peace, without any declaration of war, without any previous
notice given, or application made, a body of French troops, commanded by an officer bearing
the French king's commission, attacked in an hostile manner, and took possession of an English
fort on the river Ohio, in North America; that great naval armaments were prepared in the ports
of France, and a considerable body of French troops embarked for that country; that although
the French ambassador was sent back to England with specious professions of a desire to accommodate
these differences, it appeared their real design was only to amuse and gain time for the passage
of these supplies and reinforcements, which they hoped would secure the superiority of the
French forces in America, and enable them to carry their ambitious and oppressive projects
into execution; that inconsequence of the just and necessary measures taken by the king of
Great Britain for preventing the success of such a dangerous design, the French ambassador
was immediately recalled from England, the fortifications of Dunkirk were enlarged, great bodies
of troops marched down to the sea-coasts of France, and the British dominions threatened with
an invasion; that though the king of England, in order to frustrate these intentions, had given
orders for seizing at sea the ships of the French king and his subjects, yet he had hitherto
contented himself with detaining those ships which had been taken, and preserving their cargoes
entire, without proceeding to confiscation; but it being at last evident from the hostile invasion
of Minorca, that the court of Versailles was determined to reject all proposals of accommodation,
and carry on the war with the utmost violence, his Britannic majesty could no longer, consistently
with the honour of his crown, and the welfare of his subjects, remain within those bounds,
which from a desire of peace he had hitherto observed. A denunciation of war followed in the
usual form, and was concluded with an assurance, that all the French subjects residing in Great
Britain and Ireland, who should demean themselves dutifully to the government, might depend
upon its protection, and be safe in their persons and effects.

SUBSTANCE OF THE FRENCH KING'S DECLARATION.

In the beginning of June the French king declared war in his turn against his Britannic majesty,
and his declaration was couched in terms of uncommon asperity.

He artfully threw a shade over the beginning of hostilities in North America, referring to
a memorial which had been delivered to the several courts of Europe, containing a summary of
those facts which related to the present war, and the negotiations by which it had been preceded.
He insisted on the attack made by the king of England, in the year one thousand seven hundred
and fifty-four, on the French possessions in North America; and afterwards by the English navy
on the navigation and commerce of the French subjects, in contempt of the law of nations, and
direct violation of treaties. He complained that the French soldiers and sailors underwent
the harshest treatment in the British isles, exceeding those bounds which are prescribed to
the most rigorous rights of war, by the law of nature, and common humanity. He affirmed, that
while the English ministry, under the appearance of sincerity, imposed upon the French ambassador
with false protestations, others diametrically opposite to these deceitful assurances of a
speedy accommodation were actually carrying into execution in North America; that while the
court of London employed every caballing art, and squandered away the subsidies of England,
to instigate other powers against France, his most christain majesty did not even ask of these
powers the succours which guarantees and defensive treaties authorised him to demand; but recommended
to them such measures only as tended to their own peace and security; that while the English
navy, by the most odious violences, and sometimes by the vilest artifices, made captures of
French vessels navigating in full security under the safeguard of public faith, his most christian
majesty released an English frigate taken by a French squadron; and British vessels traded
to the ports of France without molestation. That the striking contrast formed by these different
methods of proceeding would convince all Europe, that one court was guided by motives of jealousy,
ambition, and avarice, and that the conduct of the other was founded on principles of honour,
justice, and moderation; that the vague imputations contained in the king of England's declaration,
had in reality no foundation; and the very manner in which they were set forth would prove
their futility and falsehood; that the mention made of the works at Dunkirk, and the troop
assembled on the coasts of the ocean, implied the most gross attempt to deceive mankind into
a belief that these were the points which determined the king of England to issue orders for
seizing the French vessels; whereas the works at Dunkirk were not begun till after two French
ships of war had been taken by an English squadron; and depredations had been committed six
months upon the subjects of France before the first battalions began their march for the sea-side.
In a word, the most christian king, laying aside that politeness and decorum on which his people
value themselves above all the nations upon the face of the earth, very roundly taxes his brother
monarch's administration with piracy, perfidy, inhumanity, and deceit. A charge conveyed in
such reproachful terms, against one of the most respectable crowned heads in Europe, will appear
the more extraordinary and injurious, if we consider that the accusers were well acquainted
with the falsity of their own imputations, and at the same time conscious of having practised
those very arts which they affected so much to decry. For after all, it must be allowed, that
nothing could be justly urged against the English government, with respect to France, except
the omission of a mere form, which other nations might interpret into an irregularity, but
could not construe into perfidious dealing, as the French had previously violated the peace
by their insolence and encroachments.

ADDRESS OF THE CITY OF LONDON.

Whatever might have been the opinion of other nations, certain it is, the subjects of Great
Britain heartily approved of the hostilities committed and intended against a people whom they
have always considered as their natural enemies, and the incendiaries of Europe. They cheerfully
contributed to the expense of armaments,* and seemed to approve of their destination, in hopes
of being able to wipe off the disgraces they had sustained in the defeat of Braddock, and the
loss of Minorca.

     * Immediately after the declaration of war, the French ships
     and cargoes which had been taken were tried, and condemned
     as legal Prizes, exposed to public sale, and their produce
     lodged in the bank: but in what manner this money, amounting
     to a large sum, was distributed or employed, we have not
     been able to discover.

The last event made a deep impression upon the minds of the community. An address was presented
to the king by the lord-mayor, aldermen, and common-council of London, containing strong hints
to the disadvantage of the ministry. They expressed their apprehension, that the loss of the
important fortress of St. Philip and island of Minorca, possessions of the utmost consequence
to the commerce and naval strength of Great Britain, without any attempt by timely and effectual
succours to prevent or defeat an attack, after such early notice of the enemy's intentions,
and when his majesty's navy was so evidently superior to theirs, would be an indelible reproach
on the honour of the British nation. They expatiated upon the imminent danger to which the
British possessions in America were exposed, by the mismanagement and delays which had attended
the defence of those invaluable colonies, the object of the present war, the principal source
of the wealth and strength of these kingdoms. They lamented the want of a constitutional and
well-regulated militia, the most natural and certain defence against all invaders whatsoever.
They signified their hope, that the authors of the late losses and disappointments would be
detected, and brought to condign punishment; that his majesty's known intentions of protecting
and defending his subjects in their rights and possessions, might be faithfully and vigorously
carried into execution; and the large supplies, so necessarily demanded, and so cheerfully
granted, might be religiously applied to the defence of these kingdoms, their colonies, and
their commerce, as well as to the annoyance of their inveterate and perfidious enemies, the
only sure means of obtaining a lasting and honourable peace. In answer to this address, the
king assured them that he would not fail to do justice upon any persons who should have been
wanting in their duty to him and their country; to enforce obedience and discipline in his
fleets and armies; and to support the authority and respect due to his government. Remonstrances
of the same kind were presented by different counties and corporations; and the populace clamoured
aloud for inquiry and justice.

TRIAL OF GENERAL FOWKE.

The first victim offered to the enraged multitude was the unfortunate general Fowke, who had
been deputy-governor of Gibraltar, and behaved with remarkable conduct and integrity in the
exercise of that important office, till that period when he fell under the displeasure of the
government. He was now brought to trial before a board of general officers, and accused of
having disobeyed the orders he had received from the secretary at war in three successive letters
[379] [See note 3 B, at the end of this Vol.], touching the relief of Minorca. Mr. Fowke alleged
in his own defence, that the orders were confused and contradictory, and implied a discretionary
power; that the whole number of his garrison did not exceed two thousand six hundred men, after
he had spared two hundred and seventy-five to the ships commanded by Mr. Edgecumbe; that the
ordinary duty of the garrison requiring eight hundred men, the whole number was not sufficient
for three reliefs; that, if he had detached a battalion on board the fleet, he should not have
had above two reliefs, at a time when he believed the place was in danger of being attacked,
for good reasons, which he did not think himself at liberty to mention; that his orders being
doubtful, he held a council of war, which was of opinion, that as undoubted intelligence was
received of the French army's being landed at Minorca, to the number of between thirteen and
sixteen thousand men, and that a French squadron of sixteen ships was stationed off the harbour,
the sending a detachment equal to a battalion from Gibraltar would be an ineffectual supply
for the relief of the place, and a weakening of the garrison from which they must be sent.
He observed, that supposing the orders to have been positive, and seven hundred men detached
to Minorca, the number remaining at Gibraltar would not have exceeded one thousand five hundred
and fifty-six: a deduction of seven hundred more, according to the order of May the twelfth,
would have left a remainder of eight hundred and fifty-six; that the men daily on duty in the
garrison, including artificers and labourers in the king's works, amounted to eight hundred
and thirty-nine; so that if he had complied with the orders as they arrived, he would not have
had more than seventeen men over and above the number necessary for the daily work of the garrison;
thus the important fortress of Gibraltar must, at this critical conjuncture, have been left
almost naked and defenceless to the attempts of the enemy; and had those detachments been actually
sent abroad, it afterwards appeared that they could not have been landed on the island of Minorca.
The order transmitted to general Fowke to detain all empty vessels, for a further transportation
of troops, seems to have been superfluous; for it can hardly be supposed he could have occasion
for them, unless to embark the whole garrison, and abandon the place. It seems likewise to
have been unnecessary to exhort the general to keep his garrison as alert as possible, during
that critical time; inasmuch as it would have been impossible for the men to have enjoyed the
least repose or intromission of duty, had the orders been punctually and literally obeyed.
What other assistance it might have been in the governor's power to give for the relief of
Minorca, or in what manner he could avoid fatiguing his garrison, while there was an impossibility
of relieving the guards, it is not easy to comprehend. Be that as it may, when the trial was
finished, and the question put to acquit or suspend for one year, the court was equally divided;
and in such cases the casting vote being vested in the president, he threw it into the scale
against the prisoner, whom his majesty thought fit to dismiss from his service.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

AFFAIRS OF AMERICA.

The expectation of the public was now eagerly turned towards America, the chief, if not the
sole scene of our military operations. On the twenty-fifth day of June, Mr. Abercrombie arrived
at Albany, the frontier of New York, and assumed the command of the forces there assembled,
consisting of two regiments which had served under Braddock, two battalions raised in America,
two regiments now transported from. England, four independent companies which had been many
years maintained in New York, the New Jersey regiment, four companies levied in North Carolina,
and a body of provincial forces raised by the government of New England. Those to the southward,
including Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia, had not yet determined on any regular plan
of operation, and were moreover hard pressed in defending their western frontier from the French
and Indians, who, in skulking parties, made sudden irruptions upon their unguarded settlements,
burning, plundering, and massacring with the most savage inhumanity. As for South Carolina,
the proportion of negro slaves to the number of white inhabitants was so great in that colony,
that the government could not, with any regard to the safety of the province, spare any reinforcement
for the general enterprise. The plan of this undertaking had been settled in the preceding
year in a council of war, held at New York. There it was resolved to attack the fort of Niagara,
situated between the lakes Ontario and Erie, in order to cut off the communication between
Canada and Louisiana, and prevent the French from supporting their new fortresses on the Ohio;
to reduce Ticonderago and Crown Point, so that the frontier of New York might be delivered
from the danger of an invasion, and Great Britain become master of the lake Champlain, over
which the forces might be transported in any future attempt; to besiege fort Du Quesne upon
the Ohio; and to detach a body of troops by the river Kennebec, to alarm the capital of Canada.
This plan was too extensive for the number of troops which had been prepared; the season was
too far advanced before the regiments arrived from England, the different colonies were divided
in their opinions, and Mr. Abercrombie postponed the execution of any important scheme till
the arrival of lord Loudon, who was daily expected. The reasons that delayed the reinforcement,
and detained his lordship so long, we do not pretend to explain; though we may be allowed to
observe, that many fair opportunities have been lost, by the neglect and procrastination of
an English ministry. Certain it is, the unaccountable delay of this armament rendered it useless
for a whole year, afforded time and leisure to the enemy to take their precautions against
any subsequent attack, and, in the meantime, to proceed unmolested in distressing the British
settlements. Even before this period, they had attacked and reduced a small post in the country
of the Five Nations, occupied by twenty-five Englishmen, who were cruelly butchered to a man,
in the midst of those Indians whom Great Britain had long numbered among her allies.

Soon after this expedition, having received intelligence that a considerable convoy of provisions
and stores, for the garrison of Oswego, would in a little time set out from Schenectady, and
be conveyed in batteaux up the river Onondaga, they formed an ambuscade among the woods and
thickets on the north side of that river; but understanding the convoy had passed before they
reached the place, they resolved to wait the return of the detachment. Their design, however,
was frustrated by the vigilance and valour of colonel Bradstreet, who expected such an attempt,
and had taken his measures accordingly. On the third day of July, while he stemmed the stream
of the river, with his batteaux formed into three divisions, they were saluted with the Indian
war-hoop, and a general discharge of musketry from the north shore. Bradstreet immediately
ordered his men to land on the opposite bank, and with a few of the foremost took possession
of a small island, where he was forthwith attacked by a party of the enemy, who had forded
the river for that purpose; but these were soon repulsed. Another body having passed a mile
higher, he advanced to them at the head of two hundred men, and fell upon them, sword in hand,
with such vigour, that many were killed on the spot, and the rest driven into the water with
such precipitation that a considerable number of them were drowned. Having received information
that a third body of them had passed at a ford still higher, he marched thither without hesitation,
and pursued them to the other side, where they were entirely routed and dispersed. In this
action, which lasted near three hours, about seventy of the batteau-men were killed or wounded,
but the enemy lost double the number killed, and above seventy taken prisoners. In all probability
the whole detachment of the French, amounting to seven hundred men, would have been cut off
had not a heavy rain interposed, and disabled colonel Bradstreet from following his blow; for
that same night he was joined by captain Patten with his grenadiers, in his march from Oneida
to Oswego, and next morning reinforced with two hundred men, detached to his assistance from
the garrison of Oswego; but by this time the rivulets were so swelled by the rain, that it
was found impracticable to pursue the enemy through the woods and thickets. Patten and his
grenadiers accompanied the detachment to Oswego, while Bradstreet pursued his voyage to Schenectady,
from whence he repaired to Albany, and communicated to general Abercrombie the intelligence
he had received from the prisoners, that a large body of the enemy were encamped on the eastern
side of the lake Ontario, provided with artillery, and all other implements, to besiege the
fort of Oswego.

EARL OF LOUDON ARRIVES AT NEW YORK.

In consequence of this information, major-general Webb was ordered to hold himself in readiness
to march with one regiment to the relief of that garrison; but, before they could be provided
with necessaries, the earl of Loudon arrived at the head-quarters at Albany, on the twenty-ninth
day of July. The army at this time is said to have consisted of regular troops to the number
of two thousand six hundred, about seven thousand provincials, supposed to be in readiness
to march from fort William-Henry, under the command of general Winslow, over and above a considerable
number of batteau-men at Albany and Schenectady. The garrison at Oswego amounted to fourteen
hundred soldiers, besides three hundred workmen and sailors, either in the fort, or posted
in small parties between the fort and place called Burnet's Field, to secure a safe passage
through the country of the Six Nations, upon whose friendship there was no longer any reliance.
By the best accounts received of the enemy's forces, they had about three thousand men at Crown
Point and Ticonderago upon the lake Champlain; but their chief strength was collected upon
the banks of the lake Ontario, where their purpose undoubtedly was to reduce the English fort
at Oswego. The immediate object, therefore, of lord Loudon's attention was the relief of this
place; but his design was strenuously opposed by the province of New York, and other northern
governments, who were much more intent upon the reduction of Crown Point, and the security
of their own frontiers, which they apprehended was connected with this conquest. They insisted
upon Winslow's being joined by some regiments of regular troops before he should march against
this fortress; and stipulated that a body of reserve should be detained at Albany, for the
defence of that frontier, in case Winslow should fail in his enterprise, and be defeated. At
length they agreed, that the regiment which Mr. Abercrombie had destined for that purpose should
be detached for the relief of Oswego; and on the twelfth day of August major-general Webb began
his march with it from Albany; but on his arrival at the Carrying-place, between the Mohawk's
river and Wood's creek, he received the disagreeable news that Oswego was taken, and the garrison
made prisoners of war. Mr. Webb, apprehending himself in danger of being attacked by the besieging
army, began immediately to render the creek impassable, even to canoes, by felling trees, and
throwing them into the stream; while the enemy, ignorant of his numbers, and apprehensive of
a like visitation from him, took the very same method of preventing his approach; in consequence
of this apprehension, he was permitted to retire unmolested.

OSWEGO REDUCED BY THE ENEMY. The first step taken by Montcalm was to block up Oswego by water
with two large armed vessels, and post a strong body of Canadians on the road between Albany
and the forts, to cut off all communication of succour and intelligence. In the meantime he
embarked his artillery and stores upon the lake, and landed them in the bay of Nixouri, the
place of general rendezvous. At another creek, within half a league of Oswego, he erected a
battery for the protection of his vessels, and on the twelfth day of August, at midnight, after
his dispositions had been made, he opened the trenches before fort Ontario. The garrison having
fired away all their shells and ammunition, spiked up the cannon, and deserting the fort, retired
next day across the river into Oswego, which was even more exposed than the other, especially
when the enemy had taken possession of Ontario, from whence they immediately began to fire
without intermission. Those who countenance the perpetration of cruelties, at which human nature
shudders with horror, ought to be branded as infamous to all posterity. Such, however, were
the trophies that, in the course of the American war, distinguished the operations of a people
who pique themselves upon politeness, and the virtues of humanity. Such an important magazine,
deposited in a place altogether indefensible, and without the reach of immediate succour, was
a flagrant proof of egregious folly, temerity, and misconduct.

FURTHER PROCEEDINGS IN AMERICA.

The earl of Loudon finding the season too far advanced to admit of any enterprise against the
enemy, exerted all his endeavours in making preparations for an early campaign in the spring,
securing the frontiers of the English colonies, in forming an uniform plan of action, and promoting
a spirit of harmony among the different governments, which had been long divided by jarring
interests, and other sources of dissension. Meanwhile, the forts Edward and William-Henry were
put in a proper posture of defence, and secured with numerous garrisons; and the forces put
into winter quarters at Albany where comfortable barracks were built for that purpose. Fort
Granville, on the confines of Pennsylvania, an inconsiderable block-house, was surprised by
a party of French and Indians, who made the garrison prisoners, consisting of two-and-twenty
soldiers, with a few women and children. These they loaded with flour and provisions, and drove
them into captivity; but the fort they reduced to ashes. Many shocking murders were perpetrated
upon defenceless people, without distinction of age or sex, in different parts of the frontiers;
but these outrages were in some measure balanced by the advantages resulting from a treaty
of peace, which the governor of Pennsylvania concluded with the Delaware Indians, a powerful
tribe that dwell upon the river Sasquehanna, forming, as it were, a line along the southern
skirts of the province. At the same time the governor of Virginia secured the friendship and
alliance of the Cherokees and Catawbas, two powerful nations adjoining to that colony, who
were able to bring three thousand fighting men into the field. All these circumstances considered,
Great Britain had reason to expect that the ensuing campaign would be vigorously prosecuted
in America, especially as a fresh reinforcement of troops, with a great supply of warlike stores,
were sent to that country in fourteen transports, under convoy of two ships of war, which sailed
from Cork in Ireland about the beginning of November.

NAVAL OPERATIONS IN AMERICA.

No action of great importance distinguished the naval transactions of this year on the side
of America. In the beginning of June, captain Spry, who commanded a small squadron cruising
off Louisbourg, in the island of Cape Breton, took the Arc en Ciel, a French ship of fifty
guns, having on board near six hundred men, with a large quantity of stores and provisions
for the garrison. He likewise made prize of another French ship, with seventy soldiers, two
hundred barrels of powder, two large brass mortars, and other stores of the like destination.
On the twenty-seventh day of July, commodore Holmes, being in the same latitude, with two large
ships and a couple of sloops, engaged two French ships of the line and four frigates, and obliged
them to sheer off after an obstinate dispute. A great number of privateers were equipped in
this country, as well as in the West India islands belonging to the crown of Great Britain;
and as those seas swarmed with French vessels, their cruises proved very advantageous to the
adventurers.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST INDIES.

Scenes of higher import were this year acted by the British arms in the East Indies. The cessation
of hostilities between the English and French companies on the peninsula of Indus, though it
encouraged Mr. Clive to visit his native country, was not of long duration; for in a few months
both sides recommenced their operations, no longer as auxiliaries to the princes of the country,
but as principals and rivals both in arms and commerce. Major Laurence, who now enjoyed the
chief command of the English force, obtained divers advantages over the enemy; and prosecuted
his success with such vigour, as, in all probability, would in a little time have terminated
the war according to his own wish, when the progress of his arms was interrupted and suspended
by an unfortunate event at Calcutta, the cause of which is not easily explained; for extraordinary
pains have been taken to throw a vail over some transactions from whence this calamity was
immediately or remotely derived.

CALCUTTA BESIEGED.

The old suba or viceroy of Bengal, Bahar, and Orixa, dying in the month of April, in the year
one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six, was succeeded by his adopted son, Sur Raja al Dowlat,
a young man of violent passions, without principle, fortitude, or good faith, who began his
administration with acts of perfidy and violence. In all probability, his design against the
English settlements was suggested by his rapacious disposition, on a belief that they abounded
with treasure; as the pretences which he used for commencing hostilities, were altogether inconsistent,
false, and frivolous. In the month of May, he caused the English factory at Cassimbuzzar to
be invested, and inviting Mr. Watts, the chief of the factory, to a conference, under the sanction
of a safe conduct, detained him as prisoner; then, by means of fraud and force intermingled,
made himself master of the factory. This exploit being achieved, he made no secret of his design
to deprive the English of all their settlements. With this view he marched to Calcutta at the
head of a numerous army, and invested the place, which was then in no posture of defence.

FATE OF THOSE WHO PERISHED IN THE DUNGEON AT CALCUTTA.

The governor, intimidated by the number and power of the enemy, abandoned the fort, and with
some principal persons residing in the settlement, took refuge on board a ship in the river,
carrying along with them their most valuable effects, and the books of the company. Thus the
defence of the place devolved to Mr. Holwell, the second in command, who, with the assistance
of a few gallant officers, and a very feeble garrison, maintained it with uncommon courage
and resolution against several attacks, until he was overpowered by numbers, and the enemy
had forced their way into the castle. Then he was obliged to submit; and the suba, or viceroy,
promised on the word of a soldier, that no injury should be done to him or his garrison. Nevertheless,
they were all driven, to the number of one hundred and forty-six persons of both sexes, into
a place called the Black Hole Prison, a cube of about eighteen feet, walled up to the eastward
and southward, the only quarters from which they could expect the least refreshing air, and
open to the westward by two windows strongly barred with iron, through which there was no perceptible
circulation. The humane reader will conceive with horror the miserable situation to which they
must have been reduced, when thus stewed up in a close sultry night under such a climate as
that of Bengal, especially when he reflects that many of them were wounded, and all of them
fatigued with hard duty. Transported with rage to find themselves thus barbarously cooped up
in a place where they must be exposed to suffocation, those hapless victims endeavoured to
force open the door that they might rush upon the swords of the barbarians by whom they were
surrounded; but all their efforts were ineffectual; the door was made to open inwards, and
being once shut upon them, the crowd pressed upon it so strongly as to render all their endeavours
abortive; then they were overwhelmed with distraction and despair. Mr. Holwell, who had placed
himself at one of the windows, accosted a jemmautdaar, or Serjeant of the Indian guard, and
having endeavoured to excite his compassion, by drawing a pathetic picture of their sufferings,
promised to gratify him with a thousand rupees in the morning, if he could find means to remove
one half of them into a separate apartment. The soldier, allured by the promise of such a reward,
assured him he would do his endeavour for their relief, and retired for that purpose, but in
a few minutes returned and told them that the suba, by whose order alone such a step could
be taken, was asleep, and no person durst disturb his repose. By this time a profuse sweat
had broke out on every individual, and this was attended with an insatiable thirst, which became
the more intolerable as the body was drained of its moisture. In vain those miserable objects
stripped themselves of their clothes, squatted down on their hams, and fanned the air with
their hats, to produce a refreshing undulation. Many were unable to rise again from this posture,
but falling down, were trod to death or suffocated. The dreadful symptom of thirst was now
accompanied with a difficulty of respiration, and every individual gasped for breath. Their
despair became outrageous: again they attempted to force the door, and provoke the guard to
fire upon them by execration and abuse. The cry of "Water! water!" issued from every mouth.
Even the jemmautdaar was moved to compassion at their distress. He ordered his soldiers to
bring some skins of water, which served only to enrage the appetite, and increase the general
agitation. There was no other way of conveying it through the windows but by hats, and this
was rendered ineffectual by the eagerness and transports of the wretched prisoners, who at
sight of it struggled and raved even into fits of delirium. In consequence of these contests,
very little reached those who stood nearest the windows, while the rest, at the farther end
of the prison, were totally excluded from all relief, and continued calling upon their friends
for assistance, and conjuring them by all the tender ties of pity and affection. To those who
were indulged it proved pernicious, for instead of allaying their thirst, it enraged their
impatience for more. The confusion became general and horrid; all was clamour and contest;
those who were at a distance endeavoured to force their passage to the window, and the weak
were pressed down to the ground never to rise again. The inhuman ruffians without derived entertainment
from their misery; they supplied the prisoners with more water, and held up lights close to
the bars that they might enjoy the inhuman pleasure of seeing them fight for the baneful indulgence.
Mr. Holwell seeing all his particular friends lying dead around him, and trampled upon by the
living, finding himself wedged up so close as to be deprived of all motion, begged, as the
last instance of their regard, that they would remove the pressure, and allow him to retire
from the window, that he might die in quiet. Even in those dreadful circumstances, which might
be supposed to have levelled all distinction, the poor delirious wretches manifested a respect
for his rank and character: they forthwith gave way, and he forced his passage into the centre
of the place, which was not crowded so much, because by this time about one-third of the number
had perished, and lay on small compass on the floor, while the rest still crowded to both windows.
He retired to a platform at the farther end of the room, and lying down upon some of his dead
friends, recommended his soul to heaven. Here his thirst grew insupportable; his difficulty
in breathing increased, and he was seized with a strong palpitation. These violent symptoms,
which he could not bear, urged him to make another effort: he forced his way back to the window,
and cried aloud, "Water! for God's sake!" He had been supposed already dead by his wretched
companions, but finding him still alive, they exhibited another extraordinary proof of tenderness
and regard to his person: "Give him water," they cried; nor would any of them attempt to touch
it until he had drank. He now breathed more freely, and the palpitation ceased; but finding
himself still more thirsty after drinking, he abstained from water, and moistened his mouth
from time to time by sucking the perspiration from his shirt sleeves.*

     * In his despair of obtaining water, this unhappy gentleman
     had attempted to drink his own urine, but found it
     intolerably bitter; whereas the moisture that flowed from
     the pores of his body, was soft, pleasant, and refreshing.

The miserable prisoners, perceiving that water rather aggravated than relieved their distress,
grew clamorous for air, and repeated their insults to the guard, loading the suba and his governor
with the most virulent reproach. From railing they had recourse to prayer, beseeching heaven
to put an end to their misery. They now began to drop on all hands; but then a steam arose
from the living and the dead, as pungent and volatile as spirit of hartshorn; so that all who
could not approach the windows were suffocated. Mr. Holwell, being weary of life, retired once
more to the platform, and stretched himself by the Rev. Mr. Jer-vis Bellamy, who, together
with his son, a lieutenant, lay dead in each other's embrace. In this situation he was soon
deprived of sense, and lay to all appearance dead till day broke, when his body was discovered
and removed by his surviving friends to one of the windows, where the fresh air revived him,
and he was restored to his sight and senses. The suba, at last, being informed that the greater
part of the prisoners were suffocated, inquired if the chief was alive; and being answered
in the affirmative, sent an order for their immediate release, when no more than twenty-three
survived of an hundred and forty-six who had entered alive.

ADDITIONAL CRUELTIES EXERCISED ON MR. HOLWELL.

Nor was the late deliverance, even of these few, owing to any sentiment of compassion in the
viceroy. He had received intimation that there was a considerable treasure secreted in the
fort, and that Mr. Holwell knew the place where it was deposited. That gentleman, who, with
his surviving companions, had been seized with a putrid fever immediately upon their release,
was dragged in that condition before the inhuman suba, who questioned him about the treasure,
which existed nowhere but in his own imagination; and would give no credit to his protestations,
when he solemnly declared he knew of no such deposit. Mr. Holwell and three of his friends
were loaded with fetters, and conveyed three miles to the Indian camp, where they lay all night
exposed to a severe rain; next morning they were brought back to town still manacled, under
the scorching beams of a sun intensely hot, and must infallibly have expired, had not nature
expelled the fever in large painful boils, that covered almost the whole body. In this piteous
condition they were embarked in an open boat for Muxadavad, the capital of Bengal, and underwent
such cruel treatment and misery in their passage, as would shock the humane reader should he
peruse the particulars. At Maxadavad they were led through the city in chains, as a spectacle
to the inhabitants, lodged in an open stable, and treated for some days as the worst of criminals.
At length the suba's grandmother interposed her mediation in their behalf, and as that prince
was by this time convinced that there was no treasure concealed at Calcutta, he ordered them
to be set at liberty. When some of his sycophants opposed this indulgence, representing that
Mr. Holwell had still enough left to pay a considerable ransom, he replied, with some marks
of compunction and generosity, "If he has anything left, let him keep it: his sufferings have
been great: he shall have his liberty." Mr. Holwell and his friends were no sooner unfettered,
than they took water from the Dutch Tank-sail or mint, in the neighbourhood of that city, where
they were received with great tenderness and humanity. The reader, we hope, will excuse us
for having thus particularized a transaction so interesting and extraordinary in all its circumstances.
The suba having destroyed Calcutta and dispersed the inhabitants, extorted large sums from
the French and Dutch factories, that he might display a spirit of impartiality against all
the Europeans, even in his oppression, returned to his city of Muxadavad in triumph. By the
reduction of Calcutta, the English East India company's affairs were so much embroiled in that
part of the world, that perhaps nothing could have retrieved them but the interposition of
a national force, and the good fortune of a Clive, whose enterprises were always crowned with
success.

As the English East India Company had, for a whole century, been at a considerable expense
in maintaining a marine force at Bombay, to protect their ships from the piracies of the Angrias,
who had rendered themselves independent princes, and fortified Geriah in that neighbourhood;
many unsuccessful attempts had been made to destroy their naval power, and reduce the fortress,
under which they always took shelter. In the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-four,
the fleet of Tullagree Angria, the reigning prince, attacked three Dutch ships of force, which
they either took or destroyed. Elated with this success, he boasted that he should in a little
time sweep the seas of the Europeans, and began to build some large ships, to reinforce his
grabs and gallivats, which were the vessels on which he had for merely depended. Next year
his neighbours, the Malirattas, having signified to the presidency of Bombay, that they were
disposed to join in the necessary service of humbling this common enemy, so formidable to the
whole Malabar coast, commodore James was detached with some ships of force to attack Angria,
in conjunction with those allies. They accordingly joined him with seven grabs and sixty gallivats.
They proceeded to the harbour of Severndroog, where Angria's fleet lay at anchor; but they
no sooner received intelligence of his approach, than they slipped their cables and stood out
to sea. He chased them with all the canvass he could carry, but their vessels being lighter
than his they escaped; and he returned to Severndroog, which is a fortress situated on an island
within musket shot of the main land, strongly but irregularly fortified, and mounted with fifty-four
pieces of cannon. There were three other small forts on the continent, the largest of which
was called Goa. On the second day of April the commodore began to batter and bombard the island,
fort, and fort Goa, at the same time. That of Severndroog was set on fire; one of the magazines
blew up; a general conflagration ensued; the garrison was overwhelmed with fire and confusion;
the English seamen landed un der cover of the fire from the ships, and took the place by storm,
with very little loss. The other forts were immediately surrendered, and all of these, by treaty,
delivered to the Mahrattas. On the eighth of April the commodore anchored off Bancote, now
called fort Victoria, one of the most northern parts of Angria's dominions, which surrendered
without opposition, and still remains in the hands of the English East India company, by the
consent of the Mahrattas. The harbour is good, and here is great trade for salt and other commodities
sent hither from Bombay.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

FORT GERIAH TAKEN BY ADMIRAL WATSON AND MR. CLIVE.

It was in November following that the squadron under admiral Watson arrived at Bombay, where
it was resolved to give Angria the finishing stroke, still in conjunction with the Mahrattas.
Meanwhile commodore James was sent to reconnoitre Geriah, the capital of his dominions, and
to sound the depth of the harbour, a service which he successfully performed. The admiral being
joined by a division of ships, fitted out at the company's expense, having on board a body
of troops commanded by colonel Clive, sailed on the seventeenth day of January, and found in
the neighbourhood of Geriah the Mahratta fleet, consisting of four grabs, and forty smaller
vessels called gallivats, lying to the northward of the place, in a creek called Rajipore;
and a land-army of horse and foot, amounting to seven or eight thousand men, the whole commanded
by Rhamagee Punt, who had already taken one small fort, and was actually treating about the
surrender of Geriah. Angria himself had quitted the place, but his wife and family remained
under the protection of his brother-in-law; who, being summoned to surrender by a message from
the admiral, replied, that he would defend the place to the last extremity. In consequence
of this refusal, the whole English fleet, in two divisions, sailed on the twelfth day of February
into the harbour, and sustained a warm fire from the enemy's batteries as they passed, as well
as from the grabs posted in the harbour for that purpose; this, however, was soon silenced
after the ships were brought to their stations, so as to return the salutation. Between the
hours of four and five in the afternoon, a shell being thrown into one of Angria's armed vessels,
set her on fire; and the flames communicating to the rest, they were all destroyed: between
six and seven the fort was set on fire by another shell; and soon after the firing ceased on
both sides. The admiral, suspecting that the governor of the place would surrender it to the
Mahrattas, rather than to the English, disembarked all the troops under Mr. Clive, that he
might be at hand, in case of emergency, to take possession. In the meantime, the fort was bombarded;
the line of battle ships were warped near enough to batter in breach, and then the admiral
sent an officer with a flag of truce to the governor, requiring him to surrender. His proposal
being again rejected, the English ships renewed their fire next day with redoubled vigour.
About one o'clock the magazine of the fort blew up, and at four the garrison hung out a white
flag for capitulation. The parley that ensued proving ineffectual, the engagement began again,
and continued till fifteen minutes after five; when the white flag was again displayed, and
now the governor submitted to the conditions which were imposed. Angria's flag was immediately
hauled down; and two English captains taking possession of the fort with a detachment, forthwith
hoisted the British ensign. To these captains, whose names were Buchanan and Forbes, the Mahrattas
offered a bribe of fifty thousand rupees, if they would allow them to pass their guards, that
they might take possession of the fort for themselves; but this offer was rejected with disdain,
and immediately disclosed to colonel Clive, who took effectual measures to frustrate their
design. In this place, which was reduced with very inconsiderable loss, the conquerors found
above two hundred cannon, six brass mortars, a large quantity of ammunition, with money and
effects to the value of one hundred and thirty thousand pounds. The fleet which was destroyed
consisted of eight grabs, one ship finished, two upon the stocks, and a good number of gallivats.
Among the prisoners, the admiral found Angria's wife, children, and mother, toward whom he
demeaned himself with great humanity.*

     * When the admiral entered their apartment, the whole
     family, shedding floods of tears, fell with their faces to
     the ground; from which being raised, the mother of Angria
     told him, in a piteous tone, "the people had no king, she no
     son, her daughter no husband, their children no father." The
     admiral replying, "they must look upon him as their father
     and their friend," the youngest boy, about six years of age,
     seized him by the hand, and sobbing exclaimed, "Then you
     shall be my father." Mr. Watson was so affected with this
     pathetic address, that the tears trickled down his cheeks,
     while he assured them they might depend upon his protection
     and friendship.

Three hundred European soldiers, and as-many sepoys, were left to guard the fort; and four
of the company's armed vessels remained in the harbour for the defence of the place, which
was extremely well situated for commerce.

The admiral and Mr. Clive sailed back to Madras in triumph, and there another plan was formed
for restoring the company's affairs upon the Ganges, recovering Calcutta, and taking vengeance
on the cruel viceroy of Bengal. In October they set sail again for the bottom of the bay; and
about the beginning of December arrived at Balasore, in the kingdom of Bengal. Having crossed
the Braces, they proceeded up the river Ganges as far as Falta, where they found governor Drake,
and the other persons who had escaped on board of the ships when Calcutta was invested. Colonel
Clive was disembarked with his forces to attack the fort of Busbudgia by land, while the admiral
battered it by sea; but the place being ill provided with cannon, did not hold out above an
hour after the firing began. This conquest being achieved at a very easy purchase, two of the
great ships anchored between Tanny fort and a battery on the other side of the river, which
were abandoned before one shot was discharged against either; thus the passage was laid open
to Calcutta, the reduction of which we shall record among the transactions of the ensuing year.

CHAPTER XII.

     Motives of the War in Germany..... Conspiracy in Sweden.....
     Measures taken by the King of Prussia and Elector of
     Hanover..... Endeavours of the Court of Vienna to frustrate
     them..... His Prussian Majesty demands an Explanation from
     the Empress-Queen..... Her Answer..... The Prussian Army
     enters Saxony, and publishes a Manifesto..... Prince
     Ferdinand takes Leipsic..... King of Prussia takes
     Possession of Dresden, and blocks up the King of Poland at
     Pirna..... Prussian Army penetrates into Bohemia, and fights
     the Battle of Lowoschutz..... Saxon Army surrenders.....
     King of Poland's Memorial to the States-General.....
     Imperial Decrees published against the King of Prussia.....
     Declarations of different Powers..... His Prussian Majesty's
     Answer to the Saxon Memorial..... and Justification of his
     Conduct..... Remarks on both those Pieces...... Disputes
     between the Parliament of Paris and the Clergy..... Dearth
     of Corn in England..... Hanoverian Auxiliaries sent
     back..... Session opened..... Debates on the Address.....
     Bill passed for prohibiting the Exportation of Corn.....
     Message to the House concerning Admiral Byng..... Supplies
     granted..... Reflections on the Continental War......
     Message from the King to the Parliament..... Measures taken
     to remove the Scarcity of Corn..... Militia Bill.....
     Petitions for and against it..... Altered by the Lords.....
     Bill for quartering the Foreign Troops, and for regulating
     the Marines while on Shore..... Bill for the more speedy
     recruiting the Land-Forces and Marines..... Act relating to
     Pawnbrokers and Gaming-Houses..... Laws relating to the
     Wages of Weavers, and to the Improvement of the British
     Fishery..... Act for importing American Iron Duty free.....
     Regulations with respect to the Importation of Silk.....
     Smugglers encouraged to enter into his Majesty's
     Service..... Inquiry into the Scarcity of Corn.....
     Investigation of the Loss of Minorca..... Examination of the
     American Contract..... Inquiry into the Conduct of Admiral
     Snowies, as Governor of Jamaica..... Resolutions concerning
     Milford-Haven..... Session   closed..... Trial of Admiral
     Byng..... Recommended to Mercy..... Message from the King to
     the Parliament respecting the Sentence..... Bill to release
     the Members of the Court-Martial from their Oath of
     Secrecy..... Execution of Admiral Byng..... Paper delivered
     by him to the Marshal of the Admiralty..... Remarks on his
     Fate

MOTIVES OF THE WAR IN GERMANY.

Having thus, to the best of our power, given a faithful and exact detail of every material
event in which Great Britain was concerned, either at home, or in her settlements abroad, during
the greatest part of the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six, we shall now return
to Europe, and endeavour to explain the beginning of a bloody war in Germany, which then seemed
to have become the chief object of the British councils. On the eve of a rupture between France
and England, it was natural for his Britannic majesty to provide for the safety of his electoral
dominions, the only quarter by which he was at all accessible to the efforts of the enemy,
who he foresaw would not fail to annoy him through that avenue. He, at that time, stood upon
indifferent terms with the king of Prussia, who was considered as a partisan and ally of France;
and he knew that the house of Austria alone would not be sufficient to support him against
two such powerful antagonists. In this emergency, he had recourse to the empress of Russia,
who, in consequence of a large subsidy granted by England, engaged to furnish a strong body
of forces for the defence of Hanover. His Prussian majesty, startled at the conditions of this
treaty, took an opportunity to declare that he would not suffer foreign forces of any nation
to enter the empire, either as principals or auxiliaries; a declaration which probably flowed
from a jealousy and aversion he had conceived to the court of Petersburgh, as well as from
a resolution he had formed of striking some great stroke in Germany, without any risk of being
restricted or controlled. He knew he should give umbrage to the French king, who had already
made preparations for penetrating into Westphalia; but he took it for granted he should be
able to exchange his connexions with France for the alliance with Great Britain, which would
be much less troublesome, and much more productive of advantage: indeed, such an alliance was
the necessary consequence of his declaration. Had his Britannic majesty made a requisition
of the Russian auxiliaries, he must have exposed himself to the resentment of a warlike monarch,
who hovered on the skirts of his electorate at the head of one hundred and forty thousand men,
and could have subdued the whole country in one week; and if he forbore to avail himself of
the treaty with the czarina, he did not know how soon the king of Prussia might be reconciled
to his most christian majesty's design of invasion. As for the empress-queen, her attention
was engrossed by schemes for her interest or preservation; and her hands so full, that she
either could not, or would not, fulfil the engagements she had contracted with her former and
firmest allies. In these circumstances the king of England sought and obtained the alliance
of Prussia, which, to the best of our comprehension, entailed upon Great Britain the enormous
burden of extravagant subsidies, together with the intolerable expense of a continental war,
without being productive of one advantage, either positive or negative, to England or Hanover.
On the contrary, this connexion threw the empress-queen into the arms of France, whose friendship
she bought at the expense of the barrier in the Netherlands, acquired with infinite labour,
by the blood and treasure of the maritime powers; it gave birth to a confederacy of despotic
princes; sufficient, if their joint force was fully exerted, to overthrow the liberties of
all the free states in Europe; and, after all, Hanover has been overrun, and subdued by the
enemy; and the king of Prussia put to the ban of the empire. All these consequences are, we
apprehend, fairly deducible from the resolution which his Prussian majesty took, at this juncture,
to precipitate a war with the house of Austria. The apparent motives that prompted him to this
measure we shall presently explain. In the meantime, the defensive treaty between the empress-queen
and France was no sooner ratified, than the czarina was invited to accede to the alliance,
and a private minister sent from Paris to Petersburgh, to negotiate the conditions of this
accession, which the empress of Russia accordingly embraced: a circumstance so agreeable to
the court of Versailles, that the marquis de l'Hôpital was immediately appointed ambassador-extraordinary
and plenipotentiary to the court of Russia. Applications were likewise made to the courts of
Madrid and Turin, soliciting their concurrence; but their catholic and Sardinian majesties
wisely resolved to observe a neutrality. At the same time, intrigues were begun by the French
emissaries in the senate of Sweden, in order to kindle up a war between that nation and Prussia;
and their endeavours succeeded in the sequel, even contrary to the inclination of their sovereign.
At present, a plot was discovered for altering the form of government, by increasing the power
of the crown; and several persons of rank being convicted upon trial, were beheaded as principals
in this conspiracy. Although it did not appear that the king or queen were at all concerned
in the scheme, his Swedish majesty thought himself so hardly treated by the diet, that he threatened
to resign his royalty, and retire into his own hereditary dominions. This design was extremely
disagreeable to the people in general, who espoused his cause in opposition to the diet, by
whom they conceived themselves more oppressed than they should have been under an unlimited
monarchy.

MEASURES TAKEN BY THE KING OF PRUSSIA AND ELECTOR OF HANOVER.

The king of Prussia, alarmed at these formidable alliances, ordered all his forces to be completed,
and held in readiness to march at the first notice; and a report was industriously circulated,
that by a secret article in the late treaty between France and the house of Austria, these
two powers had obliged themselves to destroy the protestant religion, and overturn the freedom
of the empire, by a forced election of a king of the Romans. The cry of religion was no impolitic
measure; but it no longer produced the same effect as in times past. Religion was made a pretence
on both sides; for the partisans of the empress-queen insinuated, on all occasions, that the
ruin of the catholic faith in Germany was the principal object of the new alliance between
the kings of Great Britain and Prussia. It was in consequence of such suggestions, that his
Britannic majesty ordered his electoral minister at the diet, to deliver a memorial to all
the ministers at Ratisbon, expressing his surprise to find the treaty he had concluded with
the king of Prussia industriously represented as a ground of apprehension and umbrage, especially
for religion. He observed, that as France had made open dispositions for invading the electorate
of Hanover, and disturbing the peace of the empire; that as he had been denied, by the empress-queen,
the succours stipulated in treaties of alliance; and as he was refused assistance by certain
states of the empire, who even seemed disposed to favour such a diversion: he had, in order
to provide for the security of his own dominions, to establish peace and tranquillity in the
empire, and maintain its system and privileges, without any prejudice to religion, concluded
a defensive treaty with the king of Prussia; that, by this instance of patriotic zeal for the
welfare of Germany, he had done an essential service to the empress-queen, and performed the
part which the head of the empire, in dignity and duty, ought to have acted; that time would
demonstrate how little it was the interest of the empress-queen to engage in a strict alliance
with a foreign power, which, for upwards of two centuries, had ravaged the principal provinces
of the empire, maintained repeated wars against the archducal house of Austria, and always
endeavoured, as it suited her views, to excite distrust and dissension among the princes and
states that compose the Germanic body.

The court of Vienna formed two considerable armies in Bohemia and Moravia; yet pretended that
they had nothing in view but self-preservation, and solemnly disclaimed both the secret article,
and the design which had been laid to their charge. His most christain majesty declared, by
his minister at Berlin, that he had no other intention but to maintain the public tranquillity
of Europe; and, this being the sole end of all his measures, he beheld with surprise the preparations
and armaments of certain potentates; that, whatever might be the view with which they were
made, he was dis posed to make use of the power which God had put into his hands, not only
to maintain the public peace of Europe against all who should attempt to disturb it, but also
to employ all his forces, agreeably to his engagements, for the assistance of his ally, in
case her dominions should be attacked; finally, that he would act in the same manner in behalf
of all the other powers with whom he was in alliance. This intimation made very little impression
upon the king of Prussia, who had already formed his plan, and was determined to execute his
purpose. What his original plan might have been, we shall not pretend to disclose; nor do we
believe he imparted it to any confidant or ally. It must be confessed, however, that the intrigues
of the court of Vienna furnished him with a specious pretence for drawing the sword, and commencing
hostilities. The empress-queen had some reason to be jealous of such a formidable neighbour.
She remembered his irruption into Bohemia, in the year one thousand seven hundred and forty-four,
at a time when she thought that country, and all her other dominions, secure from his invasion
by the treaty of Breslau, which she had in no particular contravened. She caballed against
him in different courts of Europe; she concluded a treaty with the czarina, which, though seemingly
defensive, implied an intention of making conquests upon this monarch; she endeavoured to engage
the king of Poland, elector of Saxony, as a contracting power in this confederacy; and, if
he had not been afraid of a sudden visit from his neighbour of Prussia, it cannot be supposed
but he would have been pleased to contribute to the humiliation of a prince, who had once before,
without the least provocation, driven him from his dominions, taken possession of his capital,
routed his troops, and obliged him to pay a million of crowns, to indemnify him for the expense
of this expedition; but he carefully avoided taking such a step as might expose him to another
invasion, and even refused to accede to the treaty of Petersburgh, though it was expressly
defensive; the casus fæderus being, his Prussian majesty's attacking either of the contracting
parties. It appears, however, that count de Bruhl, prime minister and favourite of the king
of Poland, had, in conjunction with some of the Austrian ministers, carried on certain scandalous
intrigues, in order to embroil the king of Prussia with the empress of Russia, between whom
a misunderstanding had long subsisted.

THE KING OF PRUSSIA DEMANDS AN EXPLANATION.

His Prussian majesty, perceiving the military preparations of the court of Vienna, and having
obtained intelligence of their secret negotiations with different powers of Europe, ordered
M. de Klingraafe, his minister at the imperial court, to demand whether all those preparations
of war, on the frontiers of Silesia, were designed against him, and what were the intentions
of her imperial majesty? To this demand the empress replied, that in the present juncture she
had found it necessary to make armaments, as well for her own defence as for that of her allies;
but that they did not tend to the prejudice of any person or state whatever. The king, far
from being satisfied with this general answer, sent fresh orders to Klingraafe, to represent,
that after the king had dissembled, as long as he thought consistent with his safety and honour,
the bad designs imputed to the empress would not suffer him longer to disguise his sentiments:
that he was acquainted with the offensive projects which the two courts had formed at Petersburgh;
that he knew they had engaged to attack him suddenly with an army of two hundred thousand men;
a design which would have been executed in the spring of the year, had not the Russian forces
wanted recruits, their fleet mariners, and Livonia a sufficient quantity of corn for their
support; that he constituted the empress arbiter of peace or war: if she desired the former,
he required a clear and formal declaration, or positive assurance, that she had no intention
to attack him either this year or the next; but he should look upon an ambiguous answer as
a declaration of war; and he called heaven to witness, that the empress alone would be guilty
of the innocent blood that should be spilt, and all the dismal consequences that would attend
the commission of hostilities.

A declaration of this nature might have provoked a less haughty court than that of Vienna,
and, indeed, seems to have been calculated on purpose to exasperate the pride of her imperial
majesty, whose answer he soon received to this effect: that his majesty the king of Prussia
had already been employed, for some time, in all kinds of the most considerable preparations
of war, and the most disquieting with regard to the public tranquillity, when he thought fit
to demand explanations of her majesty, touching the military dispositions that were making
in her dominions; dispositions on which she had not resolved till after the preparations of
his Prussian majesty had been made; that though her majesty might have declined explaining
herself on those subjects, which required no explanation, she had been pleased to declare,
with her own mouth, to M. de Klingraafe, that the critical state of public affairs rendered
the measures she was taking absolutely necessary for her own safety, and that of her allies;
but that, in other respects, they tended to the prejudice of no person whatsoever; that her
imperial majesty had undoubtedly a right to form what judgment she pleased on the circumstances
of the times; and likewise that it belonged to none but herself to estimate her own danger;
that her declaration was so clear, she never imagined it could be thought otherwise; that being
accustomed to receive, as well as to practise, the decorums which sovereigns owe to each other,
she could not hear without astonishment and sensibility the contents of the memorial now presented
by M. de Klingraafe; so extraordinary, both in the matter and expressions, that she would find
herself under a necessity of transgressing the bounds of that moderation which she had prescribed
to herself, were she to answer the whole of its contents; nevertheless, she thought proper
to declare, that the information communicated to his Prussian majesty, of an offensive alliance
against him, subsisting between herself and the empress of Russia, together with the circumstances
and pretended stipulations of that alliance, were absolutely false and forged, for no such
treaty did exist, or ever had existed. She concluded with observing, that this declaration
would enable all Europe to judge of what weight and quality those dreadful events were which
Klingraafe's memorial announced; and to perceive that, in any case, they could not be imputed
to her imperial majesty. This answer, though seemingly explicit, was not deemed sufficiently
categorical, or, at least, not suitable to the purposes of the king of Prussia, who, by his
resident at Vienna, once more declared, that if the empress-queen would sign a positive assurance
that she would not attack his Prussian majesty, either this year or the next, he would directly
withdraw his troops, and let things be restored to their former footing. This demand was evaded,
on pretence that such an assurance could not be more binding than the solemn treaty by which
he was already secured; a treaty which the empress-queen had no intention to violate. But,
before an answer could be delivered, the king had actually invaded Saxony, and published his
declaration against the court of Vienna. The court of Vienna believing that the king of Prussia
was bent upon employing his arms somewhere; being piqued at the dictatorial manner in which
his demands were conveyed; unwilling to lay themselves under further restrictions; apprehensive
of giving umbrage to their allies, and confident of having provided for their own security,
resolved to run the risk of his resentment, not without hopes of being indemnified in the course
of the war, for that part, of Silesia which the queen had been obliged to cede it in the treaty
of Breslau.

THE PRUSSIAN ARMY ENTERS SAXONY.

Both sides being thus prepared, and perhaps equally eager for action, the king of Prussia would
no longer suspend his operations, and the storm fell first upon Saxony. He resolved to penetrate
through that country into Bohemia; and even to take possession of it as a frontier, as well
as for the convenience of ingress and egress to and from the Austrian dominions. Besides, he
had reason to believe the king of Poland, elector of Saxony, was connected with the czarina
and the empress-queen; therefore, he thought it would be impolitic to leave that prince in
any condition to give him the least disturbance. His army entered the Saxon territory towards
the latter end of August, when he published a declaration, importing, that the unjust conduct
and dangerous views of the court of Vienna against his majesty's dominions, laid him under
the necessity of taking proper measures for protecting his territories and subjects; that for
this purpose he could not forbear taking the disagreeable resolution to enter with his troops
the hereditary dominions of his majesty the king of Poland, elector of Saxony; but he protested
before God and man, that on account of his personal esteem, and friendship for that prince,
he would not have proceeded to this extremity, had he not been forced to it by the laws of
war, the fatality of the present conjuncture, and the necessity of providing for the defence
and security of his subjects. He reminded the public of the tenderness with which he had treated
the elector of Saxony, during the campaign of the year one thousand seven hundred and forty-four,
and of the bad consequences resulting to that monarch from his engagements with the enemies
of Prussia. He declared that the apprehensions of being exposed again to such enterprises,
had obliged him to take those precautions which prudence dictated; but he protested in the
most solemn manner, that he had no hostile views against his Polish majesty, or his dominions;
that his troops did not enter Saxony as enemies, and he had taken care that they should observe
the best order, and the most exact discipline; that he desired nothing more ardently than the
happy minute that should procure him the satisfaction of restoring to his Polish majesty his
hereditary dominions, which he had seized only as a sacred depositum. By his minister at Dresden,
he had demanded a free passage for his forces through the Saxon dominions; and this the king
of Poland was ready to grant, with reasonable limitations, to be settled by commissaries appointed
for that purpose. But these were formalities which did not at all suit with his Prussian majesty's
disposition or design. Even before this requisition was made, a body of his troops, amounting
to fifteen thousand, under the command of prince Ferdinand, brother to the duke of Brunswick,
took possession of Leipsic on the twentieth day of September. Here he published a declaration,
signifying that it was his Prussian majesty's intention to consider and defend the inhabitants
of that electorate as if they were his own subjects; and that he had given precise orders to
his troops to observe the most exact discipline. As the first mark of his affection, he ordered
them to provide the army with all sorts of provisions, according to a certain rate, on pain
of military execution. That same evening notice was given to the corporation of merchants,
that their deputies should pay all taxes and customs to the king of Prussia; then he took possession
of the custom-house, and excise office, and ordered the magazines of corn and meal to be opened
for the use of his soldiers.

The king of Poland, apprehensive of such a visitation, had ordered all the troops of his electorate
to leave their quarters, and assemble in a strong camp marked out for them, between Pirna and
Konigstein, which was intrenched, and provided with a numerous train of artillery. Thither
the king of Poland repaired with his two sons Xaverius and Charles; but the queen and the rest
of the royal family remained at Dresden. Of this capital his Prussian majesty, with the bulk
of his army, took possession on the eighth day of September, when he was visited by lord Stormont,
the English ambassador at that court, accompanied by count Salmour, a Saxon minister, who,
in his master's name, proposed a neutrality. The king of Prussia professed himself extremely
well pleased with the proposal; and, as the most convincing proof of his neutrality, desired
the king of Poland would separate his army, by ordering his troops to return to their former
quarters. His Polish majesty did not like to be so tutored in his own dominions; he depended
for his own safety more upon the valour and attachment of his troops thus assembled, than upon
the friendship of a prince who had invaded his dominions, and sequestered his revenue, without
provocation; and he trusted too much to the situation of his camp at Pirna, which was deemed
impregnable. In the meantime, the king of Prussia fixed his headquarters at Seidlitz, about
half a German league distant from Pirna, and posted his army in such a manner, as to be able
to intercept all convoys of provisions designed for the Saxon camp; his forces extended on
the right towards the frontiers of Bohemia, and the vanguard actually seized the passes that
lead to the circles of Satzer and Leutmeritz, in that kingdom; while prince Ferdinand of Brunswick
marched with a body of troops along the Elbe, and took post at this last place without opposition.
At the same time, the king covered his own dominions, by assembling two considerable bodies
in Upper and Lower Silesia, which occupied the passes that communicated with the circles of
Buntzlau and Koningsgratz. Hostilities were commenced on the thirteenth day of September, by
a detachment of Prussian hussars, who attacked an Austrian escort to a convoy of provisions,
designed for the Saxon camp; and having routed them, carried off a considerable number of loaded
waggons. The magazines at Dresden were filled with an immense quantity of provisions and forage
for the Prussian army, and the bakers were ordered to prepare a vast quantity of bread, for
which purpose thirty new ovens were erected. When the king of Prussia first arrived at Dresden,
he lodged at the house of the countess Moczinska, and gave orders that the queen and royal
family of Poland should be treated with all due veneration and respect: [387] [See note 3 C,
at the end of this Vol.] even while the Saxon camp was blocked up on every side, he sometimes
permitted a waggon, loaded with fresh provisions and game, to pass unmolested, for the use
of his Polish majesty.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

PRUSSIANS PENETRATE INTO BOHEMIA.

During these transactions, the greatest part of the Prussian army advanced into Bohemia, under
the command of veldt-maresehal Keith,* who reduced the town and palace of Tetchen, took possession
of all the passes, and encamped near Aussig, a small town in Bohemia, at no great distance
from the imperial army, amounting to fifty thousand men, commanded by count Brown, an officer
of Irish extract, who had often distinguished himself in the field by his courage, vigilance,
and conduct.

     * Brother to the earl mareschal of Scotland, a gentleman who
     had signalized himself as a general in the Russian army, and
     was accounted one of the best officers of his time; not more
     admired for his warlike genius, than amiable in his
     disposition.

His Prussian majesty having left a considerable body of troops for the blockade of Pirna, assumed
in person the command of mareschal Keith's corps, and advanced to give battle to the enemy.
On the twenty-ninth day of September he formed his troops in two columns, and in the evening
arrived with his van at Welmina, from whence he saw the Austrian army posted with his right
at Lowoschutz, and its left towards the Egra. Having occupied with six battalions a hollow
way, and some rising grounds which commanded the town of Lowoschutz, he remained all night
under arms at Welmina; and on the first day of October, early in the morning, formed his whole
army in order of battle; the first line, consisting of the infantry, occupying two hills, and
a bottom betwixt them; the second line being formed of some battalions, and the third composed
of the whole cavalry. The Austrian general had taken possession of Lowoschutz, with a great
body of infantry, and placed a battery of cannon in front of the town; he had formed his cavalry
chequerwise, in a line between Lowoschutz and the village of Sanschitz; and posted about two
thousand Croats and irregulars in the vineyards and avenues on his right. The morning was darkened
with a thick fog, which vanished about seven: then the Prussian cavalry advanced to attack
the enemy's horse; but received such a fire from the irregulars, posted in vineyards and ditches,
as well as from a numerous artillery, that they were obliged to retire for protection to the
rear of the Prussian infantry and cannon. There, being formed, and led back to the charge,
they made an impression on the Austrian cavalry, and drove the irregulars, and other bodies
of infantry, from the ditches, defiles, and vineyards which they possessed; but they suffered
so severely in this dangerous service, that the king ordered them to reascend the hill, and
take post again behind the infantry, from whence they no more advanced. In the meantime, a
furious cannonading was maintained on both sides with considerable effect. At length the left
of the Prussian infantry was ordered to attack the town of Lowoschutz in flank; but met with
a very warm reception, and in all likelihood would have miscarried, had not veldt-mareschal
Keith headed them in person: when he drew his sword, and told them he would lead them on, he
was given to understand that all their powder and shot were exhausted: he turned immediately
to them with a cheerful countenance, said he was very glad they had no more ammunition, being
well assured the enemy could not withstand them at push of bayonet; so saying, he advanced
at their head, and driving the Austrians from Lowoschutz, set the suburbs on fire. The infantry
had been already obliged to quit the eminence on the right; and now their whole army retired
to Budin, on the other side of the Egra. Some prisoners, colours, and pieces of cannon, were
taken on both sides; and the loss of each might amount to two thousand five hundred killed
and wounded; so that, on the whole, it was a drawn battle, though both generals claimed the
victory. The detail of the action, published at Berlin, declares, that the king of Prussia
not only gained the battle, but that same day established his head quarters at Lowoschutz;
whereas the Austrian gazette affirms, that the mareschal count Brown obliged his Prussian majesty
to retire, and remained all night on the field of battle; but next day, finding his troops
in want of water, he repaired to the camp of Budin. If the battle was at all decisive, the
advantage certainly fell to the Austrians; for his Prussian majesty, who in all probability
had hoped to winter at Prague, was obliged by the opposition he met with, to resign his plan,
and retreat before winter into the electorate of Saxony.

SAXON ARMY SURRENDERS.

The Prussian army having rejoined that body which had been left to block up the Saxons at Pirna,
his Polish majesty and his troops were reduced to such extremity of want, that it became indispensably
necessary either to attempt an escape, or surrender to the king of Prussia. The former part
of the alternative was chosen, and the plan concerted with count Brown, the Austrian general,
who, in order to facilitate the execution, advanced privately with a body of troops to Lichtendorf,
near Schandeau; but the junction could not be effected. On the fourteenth day of October the
Saxons threw a bridge of boats over the Elbe, near Konigstein, to which castle they removed
all their artillery; then striking their tents in the night, passed the river undiscovered
by the enemy. They continued to retreat with all possible expedition; but the roads were so
bad, they made little progress. Next day, when part of them had advanced about half way up
a hill opposite to Konigstein, and the rest were entangled in a narrow plain, where there was
no room to act, they perceived that the Prussians were in possession of all the passes, and
found themselves surrounded on every side, fainting with hunger and fatigue, and destitute
of every convenience. In this deplorable condition they remained, when the king of Poland,
from the fortress of Konigstein, sent a letter to his general, the veldt-mareschal count Rutow-ski,
vesting him with full and discretionary power to surrender, or take such other measures as
he should judge most conducive to the preservation of the officers and soldiers. [388] [See
note 3 D, at the end of this Vol.] By this time count Brown had retired to Budin, so that there
was no choice left. A capitulation was demanded; but, in effect, the whole Saxon army was obliged
to surrender at discretion; and the soldiers were afterwards, by compulsion, incorporated with
the troops of Prussia. The king of Poland being thus deprived of his electoral dominions, his
troops, arms, artillery, and ammunition, thought it high time to provide for his own safety,
and retired with all expedition to Poland. His Prussian majesty cantoned his forces in the
neighbourhood of Seidlitz, and along the Elbe towards Dresden. His other army, which had entered
Bohemia, under the command of the count de Ichwerin, retired to the confines of the county
of Glatz, where they were distributed in quarters of cantonment; so that this short campaign
was finished by the beginning of November.

KING OF POLAND'S MEMORIAL TO THE STATES-GENERAL.

The king of Poland, in his distress, did not fail to implore the assistance and mediation of
neutral powers. His minister at the Hague presented a memorial to the states-general, complaining
that the invasion of Saxony was one of those attacks against the law of nations, which from
the great respect due to this law, demanded the assistance of every power interested in the
preservation of its own liberty and independency. He observed, that from the first glimpse
of misunderstanding between the courts of Vienna and Berlin, he had expressly enjoined his
ministers at all the courts of Europe to declare, that it was his firm resolution, in the present
conjuncture of affairs, to observe the strictest neutrality. He represented that a free and
neutral state had been, in the midst of peace, invaded by an enemy, who disguised himself under
the mask of friendship, without alleging the least complaint, or any pretension whatsoever;
but founding himself solely on his own convenience, made himself master, by armed force, of
all the cities and towns of the electorate, dismantling some and fortifying others; that he
had disarmed the burghers; carried off the magistrates as hostages for the payment of unjust
and enormous contributions of provisions and forage; seized the coffers; confiscated the revenues
of the electorate; broke open the arsenals, and transported the arms and artillery to his own
town of Magdeburgh; abolished the privy-council, and, instead of the lawful government, established
a directory, which acknowledged no other law but his own arbitrary will. He gave them to understand,
that all these proceedings were no other than preliminaries to the unheard of treatment which
was reserved for a queen, whose virtues ought to have commanded respect, even from her enemies;
that, from the hands of that august princess, the archives of the state were forced away by
menaces and violences, notwithstanding the security which her majesty had promised herself
under the protection of all laws, human and divine; and notwithstanding the repeated assurances
given by the king of Prussia, that not only her person, but the place of her residence, should
be absolutely safe, and that even the Prussian garrison should be under her direction. He observed,
that a prince who declared himself protector of the protestant religion, had begun the war
by crushing the very state to which that religion owes its establishment, and the preservation
of its most invaluable rights; that he had broken through the most respectable laws which constitute
the union of the Germanic body, under colour of a defence which the empire stood in no need
of except against himself; that the king of Prussia, while he insists on having entered Saxony
as a friend, demands his army, the administration of his dominions, and, in a word, the sacrifice
of his whole electorate; and that the Prussian directory, in the declaration of motives, published
under the nose of a prince to whom friendship was pretended, thought it superfluous to allege
even any pretext, to colour the usurpation of his territories and revenues.--Though this was
certainly the case, in his Prussian majesty's first exposition of motives, the omission was
afterwards supplied, in a subsequent memorial to the states-general; in which he charged the
king of Poland as an accomplice in, if not an accessary to, the treaty of Petersburgh; and
even taxed him with having agreed to a partition of some Prussian territories, when they should
be conquered. This treaty of partition, however, appears to have been made in time of actual
war, before all cause of dispute was removed by the peace of Dresden.

IMPERIAL DECREES PUBLISHED AGAINST THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

While the Austrian and Prussian armies were in the field, their respective ministers were not
idle at Ratisbon, where three imperial decrees were published against his Prussian majesty;
the first, summoning that prince to withdraw his troops from the electorate of Saxony; the
second, commanding all the vassals of the empire employed by the king of Prussia to quit that
service immediately; and the third, forbidding the members of the empire to suffer any levies
of soldiers, for the Prussian service, to be raised within their respective jurisdictions.
The French minister declared to the diet, that the proceedings of his Prussian majesty having
disclosed to the world the project concerted between that prince and tie king of England, to
excite in the empire a religious war which might be favourable to their particular views, his
most christian majesty, in consequence of his engagement with the empress-queen, and many other
princes of the empire, being resolved to succour them in the most efficacious manner, would
forthwith send such a number of troops to their aid, as might be thought necessary to preserve
the liberty of the Germanic body. On the other hand, the Prussian minister assured the diet,
that his master would very soon produce the proofs that were come to his hands of the plan
concerted by the courts of Vienna and Dresden, for the subversion of his electoral house, and
for imposing upon him a yoke, which seemed to threaten the whole empire.

DECLARATION OF DIFFERENT POWERS.

About the same time, the Russian resident at the Hague communicated to the states-general a
declaration from his mistress, importing, that her imperial majesty having seen a memorial
presented at the court of Vienna by the king of Prussia's envoy extraordinary, was thereby
convinced that his Prussian majesty's intention was to attack the territories of the empress-queen;
in which case, she, the czarina, was inevitably obliged to succour her ally with all her forces;
for which end she had ordered all her troops in Livonia to be forthwith assembled on the frontiers,
and hold themselves in readiness to march; that, moreover, the Russian admiralty had been enjoined
to provide immediately a sufficient number of galleys for transporting a large body of troops
to Lubeck. The ministers of the empress-queen, both at the Hague and at London, delivered memorials
to the states-general and his Britannic majesty, demanding the succours which these two powers
were bound to afford the house of Austria by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; but their high
mightinesses kept warily aloof, by dint of evasion, and the king of Great Britain was far otherwise
engaged. The invasion of Saxony had well nigh produced tragedies in the royal family of France.
The dauphiness, who was far advanced in her pregnancy, no sooner learned the distressful circumstances
of her parents, the king and queen of Poland, than she was seized with violent fits, which
occasioned a miscarriage, and brought her life into the most imminent danger. The Prussian
minister was immediately ordered to quit Versailles; and directions were despatched to the
French minister at Berlin, to retire from that court without taking leave. Finally, the emperor
of Germany concluded a new convention with the French king, regulating the succours to be derived
from that quarter; he claimed, in all the usual forms, the assistance of the Germanic body,
as guarantee of the pragmatic sanction and treaty of Dresden; and Sweden was also addressed
on the same subject.

HIS PRUSSIAN MAJESTY'S ANSWER TO THE SAXON MEMORIAL.

The king of Prussia did not passively bear all the imputations that were fixed upon his conduct.
His minister at the Hague presented a memorial, in answer to that of the Saxon resident, in
which he accused the court of Dresden of having adopted every part of the scheme which his
enemies had formed for his destruction. He affirmed that the Saxon ministers had, in all the
courts of Europe, played off every engine of unwarrantable politics, in order to pave the way
for the execution of their project; that they had endeavoured to give an odious turn to his
most innocent actions; that they had spared neither malicious insinuations, nor even the most
atrocious calumnies, to alienate all the world from his majesty, and raise up enemies against
him everywhere. He said, he had received information that the court of Saxony intended to let
his troops pass freely, and afterwards wait for events of which they might avail themselves,
either by joining his enemies, or making a diversion in his dominions; that in such a situation
he could not avoid having recourse to the only means which were left him for preventing his
inevitable ruin, by putting it out of the power of Saxony to increase the number of his enemies.
He asserted, that all the measures he had pursued in that electorate were but the Accessary
consequences of the first resolution he was forced to take for his own preservation; that he
had done nothing but deprived the court of Saxony of the means of hurting him; and this had
been done with all possible moderation; that the country enjoyed all the security and all the
quiet which could be expected in the very midst of peace, the Prussian troops observing the
most exact discipline; that all due respect was shown to the queen of Poland, who had been
prevailed upon, by the most suitable representations, to suffer some papers to be taken from
the paper office, of which his Prussian majesty already had copies; and thought it necessary,
to ascertain the dangerous design of the Saxon ministry against him, to secure the originals;
the existence and reality of which might otherwise have been denied. He observed, that every
man has a right to prevent the mischief with which he is threatened, and to retort it upon
its author; and that neither the constitutions nor the laws of the empire could obstruct the
exertion of a right so superior to all others as that of self-preservation and self-defence;
especially when the depository of these laws is so closely united to the enemy, as manifestly
to abuse his power in her favour.

But the most important step which his Prussian majesty took in his own justification, was that
of publishing another memorial, specifying the conduct of the courts of Vienna and Saxony,
and their dangerous designs against his person and interest, together with the original documents
adduced as proofs of these sinister intentions. As a knowledge of these pieces is requisite
to form a distinct idea of the motives which produced the dreadful war upon the continent,
it will not be amiss to usher the substance of them to the reader's acquaintance. His Prussian
majesty affirms, that to arrive at the source of the vast plan upon which the courts of Vienna
and Saxony had been employed against him ever since the peace of Dresden, we must trace it
as far back as the war which preceded this peace; that the fond hopes which the two allied
courts had conceived upon the success of the campaign in the year one thousand seven hundred
and forty-four, gave occasion to a treaty of eventual partition, stipulating that the court
of Vienna should possess the duchy of Silesia and the county of Glatz; while the king of Poland,
elector of Saxony, should share the duchies of Magdeburgh and Croissen; the circles of Zullichow
and Swibus, together with the Prussian part of Lusatia; that after the peace of Dresden, concluded
in the year one thousand seven hundred and forty-five, there was no further room for a treaty
of this nature; yet the court of Vienna proposed to that of Saxony a new alliance, in which
the treaty of eventual partition should be renewed; but this last thought it necessary, in
the first place, to give a greater consistency to their plan, by grounding it upon an alliance
between the empress-queen and the czarina. Accordingly, these two powers did, in fact, conclude
a defensive alliance at Petersburgh in the course of the ensuing year; but the body, or ostensible
part of this treaty, was composed merely with a view to conceal from the knowledge of the public
six secret articles, the fourth of which was levelled singly against Prussia, according to
the exact copy of it which appeared among the documents. In this article, the empress-queen
of Hungary and Bohemia sets out with a protestation, that she will religiously observe the
treaty of Dresden; but explains her real way of thinking upon the subject, a little lower,
in the following terms: "If the king of Prussia should be the first to depart from this peace,
by attacking either her majesty the empress-queen of Hungary and Bohemia, or her majesty the
empress of Russia, or even the republic of Poland; in all these cases, the rights of the empress-queen
to Silesia and the county of Glatz would again take place, and recover their full effect; the
two contracting parties should mutually assist each other with sixty thousand men to achieve
these conquests." The king observes upon this article, that every war which can arise between
him and Russia, or the republic of Poland, would be looked upon as a manifest infraction of
the peace of Dresden, and a revival of the rights of the house of Austria to Silesia; though
neither Russia nor the republic of Poland is at all concerned in the treaty of Dresden; and
though the latter, with which the king lived in the most intimate friendship, was not even
in alliance with the court of Vienna; that, according to the principles of the law of nature,
received among all civilized nations, the most the court of Vienna could be authorized to do
in such cases, would be to send those succours to her allies which are due to them by treaties,
without her having the least pretence on that account, to free herself from the particular
engagements subsisting between her and the king: he appealed, therefore, to the judgment of
the impartial world, whether in this secret article the contracting powers had kept within
the bounds of a defensive alliance; or whether this article did not rather contain a plan of
an offensive alliance against the king of Prussia. He affirmed it was obvious, from this article,
that the court of Vienna had prepared three pretences for the recovery of Silesia; and that
she thought to attain her end, either by provoking the king to commence hostilities against
her, or to kindle a war between his majesty and Russia, by her secret intrigues and machinations.
He alleged that the court of Saxony, being invited to accede to this alliance, eagerly accepted
the invitation; furnished its ministers at Petersburgh with full powers for that purpose; and
ordered them to declare that their master was not only ready to accede to the treaty itself,
but also to the secret article against Prussia; and to join in the regulations made by the
two courts, provided effectual measures should be taken, as well for the security of Saxony,
as for its indemnification and recompence, in proportion to the efforts and progress that might
be made; that the court of Dresden declared, if upon any fresh attack from the king of Prussia,
the empress-queen should, by their assistance, not only reconquer Silesia and the county of
Gratz, but also reduce him within narrow bounds, the king of Poland, as elector of Saxony,
would abide by the partition formerly stipulated between him and the empress-queen. He also
declared that count Loss, the Saxon minister at Vienna, was charged to open a private negotiation
for Settling an eventual partition of the conquest which might be made on Prussia, by laying
down, as the basis of it, the treaty of Leipsic, signed on the eighteenth day of May, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and forty-five, as would appear by the documents affixed. He
owned it had been supposed, through the whole of this negotiation, that the king of Prussia
should be the aggressor against the court of Vienna; but he insisted, that even in this case
the king of Poland could have no right to make conquests on his Prussian majesty. He likewise
acknowledged, that the court of Saxony had not yet acceded in form to the treaty of Petersburgh;
but he observed, its allies were given to understand again and again, that it was ready to
accede without restriction, whenever this could be done without risk; and the advantages to
be gained should be secured in its favour. Circumstances proved by divers authentic documents,
particularly by a letter from count Fleming to count de Bruhl, informing him that count Uhlefield
had charged him to represent afresh to his court, that they could not take too secure measures
against the ambitious views of the king of Prussia; that Saxony in particular ought to be cautious,
as being the most exposed; that it was of the highest importance to strengthen their old engagements,
upon the footing proposed by the late count de Harrach, in the year one thousand seven hundred
and forty-five; a step which might be taken on occasion of his Polish majesty's accession to
the treaty of Petersburgh. The answer of count Bruhl to this despatch imported, that the king
of Poland was not averse to treat in the utmost secrecy with the court of Vienna about succours,
by private and confidential declarations relating to the fourth secret article of the treaty
of Petersburgh, on condition of reasonable terms and advantages, which in this case ought to
be granted to his majesty. He quoted other despatches to prove the unwillingness of his Polish
majesty to declare himself until the king of Prussia should be attacked, and his forces divided;
and that this scruple was admitted by the allies of Saxony. From these premises he deduced
this inference, that the court of Dresden, without having acceded in form to the treaty of
Petersburgh, was not less an accomplice in the dangerous designs which the court of Vienna
had grounded upon this treaty; and that having been dispensed with from a formal concurrence,
it had only waited for that moment when it might, without running any great risk, conquer in
effect, and share the spoils of its neighbour. In expectation of this period, he said, the
Austrian and Saxon ministers laboured in concert and underhand with the more ardour to bring
the casus fæderus into existence; for it being laid down as a principle in the treaty, that
any war whatever between him and Russia would authorise the empress-queen to take Silesia,
there was nothing more to be done but to kindle such a war; for which purpose no method was
found more proper than that of embroiling the king with the empress of Russia; and to provoke
that princess with all sorts of false insinuations, impostures, and the most atrocious calumnies,
in laying to his majesty's charge a variety of designs, sometimes against Russia, and even
the person of the czarina; sometimes views upon Poland, and sometimes intrigues in Sweden.
By these and other such contrivances, he affirmed they had kindled the animosity of the empress
to such a degree, that in a council held in the month of October, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and fifty-three, she had resolved to attack the king of Prussia, without any
further discussion, whether he should fall upon any of the allies of Russia, or one of them
should begin with him; a resolution which for that time was frustrated by their want of seamen
and magazines; but the preparations were continued under pretence of keeping themselves in
a condition to fulfil their engagements, contracted in the last subsidiary convention with
England; and when all were finished, the storm would fall on the king of Prussia.

This is the substance of that famous memorial published by his Prussian majesty, to which the
justifying pieces or authentic documents were annexed; and to which a circumstantial answer
was exhibited by the partisans of her imperial majesty. Specious reasons may, doubtless, be
adduced on either side of almost any dispute, by writers of ingenuity; but, in examining this
contest, it must be allowed that both sides adopted illicit practices. The empress-queen and
the elector of Saxony had certainly a right to form defensive treaties for their own preservation;
and without all doubt, it was their interest and their duty to secure themselves from the enterprises
of such a formidable neighbour; but at the same time, the contracting parties seem to have
carried their views much farther than defensive measures. Perhaps the court of Vienna considered
the cession of Silesia as a circumstance altogether compulsive, and therefore not binding against
the rights of natural equity. She did not at all doubt that the king of Prussia would be tempted
by his ambition and great warlike power, to take some step which might be justly interpreted
into an infraction of the treaty of Dresden; and in that case she was determined to avail herself
of the confederacy she had formed, that she might retrieve the countries she had lost by the
unfortunate events of the last war, as well as bridle the dangerous power and disposition of
the Prussian monarch; and in all probability the king of Poland, over and above the same consideration,
was desirous of some indemnification for the last irruption into his electoral dominions, and
the great sums he had paid for the subsequent peace. Whether they were authorised by the law
of nature and nations to make reprisals by an actual partition of the countries they might
conquer, supposing him to be the aggressor, we shall not pretend to determine; but it does
not at all appear, that his Prussian majesty's danger was such as entitled him to take those
violent steps which he now attempted to justify. By this time the flame of war was kindled
up to a blaze that soon filled the empire with ruin and desolation; and the king of Prussia
had drawn upon himself the resentment of the three greatest powers of Europe, who laid aside
their former animosities, and every consideration of that balance which it had cost such blood
and treasure to preserve, in order to conspire his destruction. The king himself could not
but foresee this confederacy, and know the power it might exert; but probably he confided so
much in the number, the valour, and discipline of his troops; in the skill of his officers;
in his own conduct and activity; that he hoped to crush the house of Austria by one rapid endeavour
at the latter end of the season, or at least establish himself in Bohemia, before her allies
could move to her assistance. In this hope, however, he was disappointed by the vigilance of
the Austrian councils. He found the empress-queen in a condition to make head against him in
every avenue to her dominions; and in a fair way of being assisted by the circles of the empire.
He saw himself threatened with the vengeance of the Russian empress, and the sword of France
gleaming over his head, without any prospect of assistance but that which he might derive from
his alliance with Great Britain. Thus the king of England exchanged the alliance of Russia,
who was his subsidiary, and the friendship of the empress queen, his old and natural ally,
for a new connexion with his Prussian majesty, who could neither act as an auxiliary to Great
Britain, nor as a protector to Hanover; and for this connexion, the advantage of which was
merely negative, such a price was paid by England as had never been given by any other potentate
of Europe, even for services of the greatest importance.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DISPUTES BETWEEN THE PARLIAMENT OF PARIS AND THE CLERGY.

About the latter end of November, the Saxon minister at Ratisbon delivered to the diet a new
and ample memorial, explaining the lamentable state of that electorate, and imploring afresh
the assistance of the empire. The king of Prussia had also addressed a letter to the diet,
demanding succour of the several states, agreeable to their guarantees of the treaties of Westphalia
and Dresden; but the minister of Mentz, as director of the diet, having refused to lay it before
that assembly, the minister of Brandenburgh ordered it to be printed, and sent to his court
for further instructions. In the meantime his Prussian majesty thought proper to intimate to
the king and senate of Poland, that should the Russian troops be permitted to march through
that kingdom, they might expect to see their country made a scene of war and desolation. In
France, the prospect of a general and sanguinary war did not at all allay the disturbance which
sprang from the dissension between the clergy and parliament, touching the bull Unigenitus.
The king being again brought over to the ecclesiastical side of the dispute, received a brief
from the pope, laying it down as a fundamental article, that whosoever refuses to submit to
the bull Unigenitus, is in the way of damnation; and certain cases are specified, in which
the sacraments are to be denied. The parliament of Paris, considering this brief or bull as
a direct attack upon the rights of the Gallican church, issued an arret or decree, suppressing
the said bull; reserving to themselves the right of providing against the inconveniences with
which it might be attended, as well as the privilege to maintain in their full force the prerogatives
of the crown, the power and jurisdiction of the bishops, the liberties of the Gallican church,
and the customs of the realm. The king, dissatisfied with their interposition, declared his
design to hold a bed of justice in person at the palace. Accordingly, on the twelfth day of
November, the whole body of his guards, amounting to ten thousand men, took post in the city
of Paris; and next day the king repaired with the usual ceremony to the palace, where the bed
of justice was held: among other regulations, an edict was issued for suppressing the fourth
and fifth chambers of inquests, the members of which had remarkably distinguished themselves
by their opposition to the bull Unigenitus.

DEARTH OF CORN IN ENGLAND.

In England, the dearth of corn, arising in a great measure from the iniquitous practice of
engrossing, was so severely felt by the common people, that insurrections were raised in Shropshire
and Warwickshire by the populace, in conjunction with the colliers, who seized by violence
all the provisions they could find; pillaging without distinction the millers, farmers, grocers,
and butchers, until they were dispersed by the gentlemen of the country, at the head of their
tenants and dependants. Disorders of the same nature were excited by the colliers on the forest
of Dean, and those employed in the works in Cumberland. The corporations, noblemen, and gentlemen,
in different parts of the kingdom, exerted themselves for the relief of the poor, who were
greatly distressed; and a grand council being assembled at St. James' on the same subject,
a proclamation was published, for putting the laws in speedy and effectual execution against
the forestallers and engrossers of corn.

The fear of an invasion having now subsided, and Hanover being supposed in greater danger than
Great Britain, the auxiliaries of that electorate were transported from England to their own
country. At the latter end of the season, when the weather became severe, the inn-keepers of
England refused to admit the Hessian soldiers into winter-quarters, as no provision had been
made for that purpose by act of parliament; so that they were obliged to hut their camp, and
remain in the open fields till January; but the rigour of this uncomfortable situation was
softened by the hand of generous charity, which liberally supplied them with all manner of
refreshment, and other conveniences; a humane interposition, which rescued the national character
from the imputation of cruelty and ingratitude.

SESSION OPENED.

On the second day of December, his majesty opened the session of parliament with a speech that
seemed to be dictated by the genius of England. He expressed his confidence, that, under the
guidance of Divine Providence, the union, fortitude, and affection of his people would enable
him to surmount all difficulties, and vindicate the dignity of his crown against the ancient
enemy of Great Britain. He declared, that the succour and preservation of America constituted
a main object of his attention and solicitude; and observed, that the growing dangers to which
the British colonies might stand exposed, from late losses in that country, demanded resolutions
of vigour and despatch. He said, an adequate and firm defence at home should maintain the chief
place in his thoughts; and in this great view he had nothing so much at heart as to remove
all grounds of dissatisfaction from his people; for this end, he recommended to the care and
diligence of the parliament the framing of a national militia, planned and regulated with equal
regard to the just rights of his crown and people; an institution which might become one good
resource in time of general danger. He took notice that the unnatural union of councils abroad,
the calamities which, in consequence of this unhappy conjunction, might, by irruptions of foreign
armies into the empire, shake its constitution, overturn its system, and threaten oppression
to the protestant interest on the continent, were events which must sensibly affect the minds
of the British nation, and had fixed the eyes of Europe on this new and dangerous crisis. He
gave them to understand that the body of his electoral troops, which were brought hither at
the desire of his parliament, he had now directed to return to his dominions in Germany, relying
with pleasure on the spirit and zeal of his people, in defence of his person and realm. He
told the commons that he confided in their wisdom, for preferring more vigorous efforts, though
more expensive, to a less effectual, and therefore less frugal plan of war; that he had placed
before them the dangers and necessities of the public; and it was their duty to lay the burdens
they should judge unavoidable in such a manner as would least disturb and exhaust his people.
He expressed his concern for the sufferings of the poor, arising from the present dearth of
corn, and for the disturbances to which it had given rise; and exhorted his parliament to consider
of proper provisions for preventing the like mischiefs hereafter. He concluded with remarking,
that unprosperous events of war in the Mediterranean, had drawn from his subjects signal proofs
how dearly they tendered the honour of his crown; therefore, they could not, on his part, fail
to meet with just returns of unwearied care, and unceasing endeavours for the glory, prosperity,
and happiness of his people.

DEBATES ON THE ADDRESS.

The king having retired from the house of peers, the speech was read by lord Sandys, appointed
to act as speaker to that house; then earl Gower moved for an address, which, however, was
not carried without objection. In one part of it his majesty was thanked for having caused
a body of electoral troops to come into England at the request of his parliament; and this
article was disagreeable to those who had disapproved of the request in the last session. They
said they wished to see the present address unanimously agreed to by the lords; a satisfaction
they could not have, if such a paragraph should be inserted; for they still thought the bringing
over Hanoverian troops a preposterous measure; because it had not only loaded the nation with
an enormous expense, but also furnished the court of France with a plausible pretence for invading
the electorate, which otherwise it would have no shadow of reason to attack; besides, the expedient
was held in reprobation by the subjects in general, and such a paragraph might be considered
as an insult on the people. Notwithstanding these exceptions, which did not seem to be very
important, the address, including this paragraph, was approved by a great majority.

BILL PASSED FOr PROHIBITING THE EXPORTATION OF CORN.

In the address of the commons no such paragraph was inserted. As soon as the speaker had recited
his majesty's speech, Mr. Charles Townshend proposed the heads of an address, to which the
house unanimously agreed; and it was presented accordingly. This necessary form was no sooner
discussed, than the house, with a warmth of humanity and benevolence suitable to such an assembly,
resolved itself into a committee, to deliberate on that part of his majesty's speech which
related to the dearth of corn that so much distressed the poorer class of people. A bill was
immediately framed to prohibit, for a time limited, the exportation of corn, malt, meal, flour,
bread, biscuit, and starch; and a resolution unanimously taken to address the sovereign, than
an embargo might be forthwith laid upon all ships laden or to be laden with these commodities,
to be exported from the ports of Great Britain and Ireland. At the same time, vice-admiral
Boscawen, from the board of admiralty, informed the house, that the king and the board having
been dissatisfied with the conduct of admiral Byng, in a late action with the French fleet
in the Mediterranean, and for the appearance of his not having acted agreeably to his instructions
for the relief of Minorca, he was then in custody of the marshal of the admiralty, in order
to be tried by a court-martial; that although this was no more than what was usual in like
cases, yet as admiral Byng was then a member of the house, and as his confinement might detain
him some time from his duty there, the board of admiralty thought it a respect due to the house
to inform them of the commitment and detainer of the said admiral. This message being delivered,
the journal of the house in relation to rear-admiral Knowles [392] [See note 3 E, at the end
of this Vol] was read, and what Mr. Boscawen now communicated was also inserted.

The committees of supply, and of ways and means, being appointed, took into consideration the
necessities of the state, and made very ample provision for enabling his majesty to maintain
the war with vigour.

{1757}

They granted fifty-five thousand men for the sea-service, including eleven thousand four hundred
and nineteen marines; and for the land-service, forty-nine thousand seven hundred and forty-nine
effective men, comprehending four thousand and eight invalids. The supply was granted for the
maintenance of these forces, as well as for the troops of Hesse and Hanover; for the ordnance;
the levy of new regiments; for assisting his majesty in forming and maintaining an army of
observation, for the just and necessary defence and preservation of his electoral dominions,
and those of his allies; and towards enabling him to fulfil his engagements with the king of
Prussia; for the security of the empire against the irruption of foreign armies,* as well as
for the support of the common cause; for building and repairs of ships, hiring transports,
payment of half-pay officers, and the pensions of widows; for enabling his majesty to discharge
the like sum, raised in pursuance of an act passed in the last session of parliament, and charged
upon the first aids or supplies to be granted in this session; for enabling the governors and
guardians of the hospital for the maintenance and education of exposed and deserted young children,
to receive all such children, under a certain age, as should be brought to the said hospital
within the compass of one year;** for maintaining and supporting the new settlement of Nova
Scotia; for repairing and finishing military roads; for making good his majesty's engagement
with the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel; for the expense of marching, recruiting, and remounting
German troops in the pay of Great Britain; for empowering his majesty to defray any extraordinary
expenses of the war, incurred, or to be incurred, for the service of the ensuing year, and
to take all such measures as might be necessary to disappoint or defeat any enterprises or
designs of his enemies, as the exigency of affairs should require; for the payment of such
persons, in such a manner as his majesty should direct; for the use and relief of his subjects
in the several provinces of North and South Carolina and Virginia, in recompence for such services
as, with the approbation of his majesty's commander-in-chief in America, they respectively
had performed, or should perform, either by putting these provinces in a state of defence,
or by acting with vigour against the enemy; for enabling the East India company to defray the
expense of a military force in their settlements, to be maintained in them, in lieu of a battalion
of his majesty's forces withdrawn from those forts and factories; for the maintenance and support
of the forts on the coast of Africa; for widening the avenues, and rendering more safe and
commodious the streets and passages leading from Charing Cross to the two houses of parliament,
the court of justice, and the new bridge at Westminster.***

     * Nothing could more gloriously evince the generosity of a
     British parliament, than this interposition for defending
     the liberties of Germany, in conjunction with two electors
     only, against the sense of the other seven, and in direct
     opposition to the measures taken by the head of the empire,
     who, in the sequel, stigmatized these two princes as rebels,
     and treated one of them as an outlaw.

     ** This charity, established by voluntary contribution,
     might, under proper restrictions, prove beneficial to the
     commonwealth, by rescuing deserted children from misery and
     death, and qualifying them for being serviceable members of
     the community; but since the liberality of parliament hath
     enabled the governors and corporation to receive all the
     children that are presented, without question or limitation,
     the yearly expense hath swelled into a national grievance,
     and the humane purposes of the original institution are, in
     a great measure, defeated. Instead of an asylum for poor
     forlorn orphans and abandoned foundlings, it is become a
     general receptacle for the offspring of the dissolute, who
     care not to work for the maintenance of their families. The
     hospital itself is a plain edifice, well contrived for
     economy and convenience, standing on the north side of the
     city, and a little detached from it, in an agreeable and
     salubrious situation. The hall is adorned with some good
     paintings, the chapel is elegant, and the regulations are
     admirable.

     *** The bridge at Westminster may be considered as a
     national ornament. It was built at the public expense, from
     the neighbourhood of Westminster Hall to the opposite side
     of the river, and consists of thirteen arches, constructed
     with equal elegance and simplicity.

Such were the articles under which we may specify the supplies of this year, on the whole amounting
to eight millions three hundred and fifty thousand three hundred and twenty-five pounds, nine
shillings and three pence. It must be acknowledged, for the honour of the administration, that
the house of commons could not have exhibited stronger marks of their attachment to the crown
and person of their sovereign, as well as of their desire to see the force of the nation exerted
with becoming spirit.

REFLECTIONS ON THE CONTINENTAL WAR.

Some of these impositions were deemed grievous hardships by those upon whom they immediately
fell; and many friends of their country exclaimed against the projected army of observation
in Germany, as the commencement of a ruinous continental war, which it was neither the interest
of the nation to undertake, nor in their power to maintain, without starving the operations
by sea, and in America, founded on British principles; without contracting such an additional
load of debts and taxes, as could not fail to terminate in bankruptcy and distress. To those
dependents of the ministry, who observed that as Hanover was threatened by France for its connexion
with Great Britain, it ought, in common gratitude, to be protected, they replied, that every
state, in assisting any ally, ought to have a regard to its own preservation: that, if the
king of England enjoyed by inheritance, or succession, a province in the heart of France, it
would be equally absurd and unjust, in case of a rupture with that kingdom, to exhaust the
treasures of Great Britain in the defence of such a province; and yet the inhabitants of it
would have the same right to complain that they suffered for their connexion with England.
They observed, that other dominions, electorates, and principalities in Germany, were secured
by the constitutions of the empire, as well as by fair and equal alliances with their co-estates;
whereas Hanover stood solitary, like a hunted deer avoided by the herd, and had no other shelter
but that of shrinking under the extended shield of Great Britain: that the reluctance expressed
by the German princes to undertake the defence of these dominions, flowed from a firm persuasion,
founded on experience, that England would interpose as a principal, and not only draw her sword
against the enemies of the electorate, but concentrate her chief strength in that object, and
waste her treasures in purchasing their concurrence; that exclusive of an ample revenue drained
from the sweat of the people, great part of which had been expended in continental efforts,
the whole national debt incurred, since the accession of the late king, had been contracted
in pursuance of measures totally foreign to the interest of these kingdoms: that, since Hanover
was the favourite object, England would save money, and great quantities of British blood,
by allowing France to take possession of the electorate, paying its ransom at the peace, and
indemnifying the inhabitants for the damage they might sustain; an expedient that would be
productive of another good consequence, it would rouse the German princes from their affected
indifference, and oblige them to exert themselves with vigour, in order to avoid the detested
neighbourhood of such an enterprising invader.

MESSAGES FROM THE KING TO THE PARLIAMENT.

The article of the supply relating to the army of observation, took rise from a message signed
by his majesty, and presented by Mr. Pitt, now promoted to the office of principal secretary
of state; a gentleman who had, upon sundry occasions, combated the gigantic plan of continental
connexions with all the strength of reason, and all the powers of eloquence. He now imparted
to the house an intimation, importing, it was always with reluctance that his majesty asked
extraordinary supplies of his people; but as the united councils, and formidable preparations
of France and her allies threatened Europe in general with the most alarming consequence; and
as these unjust and vindictive designs were particularly and immediately bent against his majesty's
electoral dominions, and those of his good ally the king of Prussia, his majesty confided in
the experienced zeal and affection of his faithful commons, that they would cheerfully assist
him in forming and maintaining an army of observation, for the just and necessary defence and
preservation of those territories, and enable him to fulfil his engagements with his Prussian
majesty, for the security of the empire against the irruption of foreign armies, and for the
support of the common cause. Posterity will hardly believe, that the emperor and all the princes
of Germany were in a conspiracy against their country, except the king of Prussia, the elector
of Hanover, and the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel; and they will, no doubt, be surprised, that
Great Britain, after all the treaties she had made, and the numberless subsidies she had granted,
should not have an ally left, except one prince, so embarrassed in his own affairs, that he
could grant lier no succour, whatever assistance he might demand. The king's message met with
as favourable a reception as he could have desired. It was read in the house of commons, together
with, a copy of the treaty between his majesty and the king of Prussia, including the secret
and separate article, and the declaration signed on each side by the plenipotentiaries at Westminster:
the request was granted, and the convention approved. The committee of supply forthwith granted
a very large sum for these purposes, including the charge of German mercenaries. A like message
being at the same time communicated to the upper house, their lordships voted a very loyal
address upon the occasion; and when the article of supply, which it produced among the commons,
fell under their inspection, they unanimously agreed to it, by way of a clause of appropriation.

MEASURES TAKEN TO REMOVE THE SCARCITY OF CORN.

We have already observed, that the first bill which the commons passed in this session, was
for the relief of the poor, by prohibiting the exportation of corn; but this remedy not being
judged adequate to the evil, another bill was framed, removing, for a limited time, the duty
then payable upon foreign corn and flour imported; as also permitting, for a certain time,
all such foreign corn, grain, meal, bread, biscuit, and flour, as had been or should be taken
from the enemy, to be landed and expended in the kingdom duty free. In order still more to
reduce the high price of corn, and to prevent any supply of provisions from being sent to our
enemies in America, a third bill was brought in, prohibiting, for a time therein limited, the
exportation of corn, grain, meal, malt, flour, bread, biscuit, starch, beef, pork, bacon, or
other victual, from any of the British plantations, unless to Great Britain or Ireland, or
from one colony to another. To this act two clauses were added, for allowing those necessaries,
mentioned above, to be imported in foreign built ships, and from any state in amity with his
majesty, either into Great Britain or Ireland; and for exporting from Southampton or Exeter
to the Isle of Man, for the use of the inhabitants, a quantity of wheat, barley, oats, meal,
or flour, not exceeding two thousand five hundred quarters. The commons would have still improved
their humanity, had they contrived and established some effectual method to punish those unfeeling
villains, who, by engrossing and hoarding up great quantities of grain, had created this artificial
scarcity, and deprived their fellow-creatures of bread, with a view to their own private advantage.
Upon a subsequent report of the committee, the house resolved, that, to prevent the high price
of wheat and bread, no spirits should be distilled from wheat for a limited time. While the
bill, formed on this resolution, was in embryo, a petition was presented to the house by the
brewers of London, Westminster, Southwark, and parts adjacent, representing, that, when the
resolution passed, the price of malt, which was before too high, immediately rose to such a
degree, that the petitioners found themselves utterly incapable of carrying on business at
the price malt then bore, occasioned, as they conceived, from an apprehension of the necessity
the distillers would be under to make use of the best pale malt, and substitute the best barley
in lieu of wheat: that, in such a case, the markets would not be able to supply a sufficient
quantity of barley for the demands of both professions, besides other necesssary uses: they
therefore prayed, that, in regard to the public revenue, to which the trade of the petitioners
so largely contributed, proper measures might be taken for preventing the public loss, and
relieving their particular distress. The house would not lend a deaf ear to a remonstrance
in which the revenue was concerned. The members appointed to prepare the bill, immediately
received instructions to make provision in it to restrain, for a limited time, the distilling
of barley, malt, and all grain whatsoever. The bill was framed accordingly, but did not pass
without strenuous opposition. To this prohibition it was objected, that there are always large
quantities of wheat and barley in the kingdom so much damaged, as to be unfit for any use but
the distillery, consequently a restriction of this nature would ruin many farmers, and others
employed in the trade of malting. Particular interests, however, must often be sacrificed to
the welfare of the community; and the present distress prevailed over the prospect of this
disadvantage. If they had allowed any sort of grain to be distilled, it would have been impossible
to prevent the distilling of every kind. The prohibition was limited to two months; but at
the expiration of that term, the scarcity still continuing, it was protracted by a new bill
to the eleventh day of December, with a proviso, empowering his majesty to put an end to it
at any time after the eleventh day of May, if such a step should be judged for the advantage
of the kingdom.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

MILITIA BILL.

The next bill that engaged the attention of the commons, was a measure of the utmost national
importance, though secretly disliked by many individuals of the legislature, who, nevertheless,
did not venture to avow their disapprobation. The establishment of a militia was a very popular
and desirable object, but attended with numberless difficulties, and a competition of interests
which it was impossible to reconcile. It had formerly been an inexhaustible source of contention
between the crown and the commons; but now both apparently concurred in rendering it serviceable
to the commonwealth, though some acquiesced in the scheme, who were not at all hearty in its
favour. On the fourth day of December, a motion was made for the bill, by colonel George Townshend,
eldest son of lord viscount Townshend, a gentleman of courage, sense, and probity; endued with
penetration to discern, and honesty to pursue, the real interest of his country, in defiance
of power, in contempt of private advantages. Leave being given to bring in a bill for the better
ordering of the militia forces in the several counties of England, the task of preparing it
was allotted to Mr. Townshend, and a considerable number of the most able members in the house,
comprehending his own brother, Mr. Charles Townshend, whose genius shone with distinguished
lustre: he was keen, discerning, eloquent, and accurate; possessed a remarkable vivacity of
parts, with a surprising solidity of understanding; was a wit without arrogance, a patriot
without prejudice, and a courtier without dependance.

While the militia bill remained under consideration in the house, a petition for a constitutional
and well-regulated militia was presented by the mayor, jurats, and commonalty of the king's
town and parish of Maidstone, in Kent, in common-council assembled. At the same time remonstrances
were offered by the protestant dissenting ministers of the three denominations in and about
the cities of London and Westminster; by the protestant dissenters of Shrewsbury; the dissenting
ministers of Devonshire; the protestant dissenters, being freeholders and burgesses of the
town and county of the town of Nottingham, joined with other inhabitants of the church of England,
expressing their apprehension, that, in the bill then depending, it might be proposed to enact,
that the said militia should be exercised on the Lord's day, commonly called Sunday, and praying
that no clause for such purpose might pass into a law. Though nothing could be more ridiculously
fanatic and impertinent than a declaration of such a scruple against a practice so laudable
and necesssary, in a country where that day of the week is generally spent in merry-making,
riot, and debauchery, the house paid so much regard to the squeamish consciences of those puritanical
petitioners, that Monday was pitched upon for the day of exercise to the militia, though on
such working days they might be much more profitably employed, both for themselves and their
country; and that no religious pretence should be left for opposing the progress and execution
of the bill, proper clauses were inserted for the relief of the quakers. Another petition and
counter-petition were delivered by the magistrates, freeholders, and burgesses of the town
of Nottingham, in relation to their particular franchises, which were accordingly considered
in framing the bill.

After mature deliberation, and divers alterations, it passed the lower house, and was sent
to the lords for their concurrence: here it underwent several amendments, one of which was
the reduction of the number of militia-men to one half of what the commons had proposed; namely,
to thirty-two thousand three hundred and forty men for the whole kingdom of England and Wales.
The amendments being canvassed in the lower house, met with some opposition, and divers conferences
with their lordships ensued; at length, however, the two houses agreed to every article, and
the bill soon received the royal sanction. No provision, however, was made for clothes, arms,
accoutrements, and pay: had regulations been made for these purposes, the act would have become
a money-bill, in which the lords could have made no amendment: in order, therefore, to prevent
any difference between the two houses, on a dispute of privileges not yet determined, and that
the house of peers might make what amendments they should think expedient, the commons left
the expense of the militia to be regulated in a subsequent bill, during the following session,
when they could, with more certainty, compute what sum would be necessary for these purposes.
After all, the bill seemed to be crude, imperfect, and ineffectual, and the promoters of it
were well aware of its defects; but they were apprehensive that it would have been dropped
altogether, had they insisted upon the scheme being executed in its full extent. They were
eager to seize this opportunity of trying an experiment, which might afterwards be improved
to a greater national advantage; and, therefore, they acquiesced in many restrictions and alterations,
which otherwise would not have been adopted.

BILL FOR QUARTERING FOREIGN TROOPS, &c.

The next measure that fell under the consideration of the house, was rendered necessary by
the inhospitable perseverance of the publicans and inn-holders, who conceived themselves not
obliged by law to receive or give quarters in their houses to any foreign troops, and accordingly
refused admittance to the Hessian auxiliaries, who began to be dreadfully incommoded by the
severity of the weather. This objection implying an attack upon the prerogative, the government
did not think fit, at this juncture, to dispute any other way, than by procuring a new law
in favour of those foreigners. It was intituled, "A bill to make provision for quartering the
foreign troops now in this kingdom," prepared by lord Barrington, the chancellor of the exchequer,
and the solicitor-general, and immediately passed without opposition. This step being taken,
another bill was brought in, for the regulation of the marine forces while on shore. This was
almost a transcript of the mutiny act, with this material difference: it empowered the admiralty
to grant commissions for holding general courts-martial, and to do every thing, and in the
same manner, as his majesty is empowered to do by the usual mutiny bill; consequently every
clause was adopted without question.

BILL FOR THE MORE SPEEDY RECRUITING THE LAND-FORCES AND MARINES, &c.

The same favourable reception was given to a bill for the more speedy and effectual recruiting
his majesty's land-forces and marines; a law which threw into the hands of many worthless magistrates
an additional power of oppressing their fellow-creatures: all justices of the peace, commissioners
of the land-tax, magistrates of corporations and boroughs, were empowered to meet by direction
of the secretary at war, communicated in precepts issued by the high sheriffs, or their deputies,
within their respective divisions, and at their usual place of meeting, to qualify themselves
for the execution of the act: then they were required to appoint the times and places for their
succeeding meetings; to issue precepts to the proper officers for these succeeding meetings;
and to give notice of the time and place of every meeting to such military officer, as, by
notice from the secretary at war, should be directed to attend that service. The annual bill
for preventing mutiny and desertion met with no objections, and indeed contained nothing essentially
different from that which had passed in the last session. The next law enacted, was, for further
preventing embezzlement of goods and apparel, by those with whom they are intrusted, and putting
a stop to the practice of gaming in public houses. By this bill a penalty was inflicted on
pawnbrokers, in a summary way, for receiving goods, knowing them not to be the property of
the pledger, and pawned without the authority of the owner. [395] [See note 3 F, at the end
of this Vol.] With respect to gaming, the act ordained that all publicans suffering journeymen,
labourers, servants, or apprentices, to game with cards, dice, shuffleboards, mississippi,
or billiard tables, skittles, nine-pins, &c. should forfeit forty shillings for the first offence,
and for every subsequent offence, ten pounds shall be levied by distress.

Divers inconveniences having resulted from the interposition of justices, who, in pursuance
of an act of parliament passed in the present reign, assumed the right of establishing rates
for the payment of wages to weavers, several petitions wore offered to the house of commons,
representing the evil consequences of such an establishment; and although these arguments were
answered and opposed in counter-petitions, the commons, actuated by a laudable concern for
the interest of the woolen manufacture, after due deliberation, removed the grievance by a
new bill, repealing so much of the former act as empowered justices of peace to make rates
for the payment of wages. [396] [See note 3 G, at the end of this Vol.] The commons were not
more forward to provide supplies for prosecuting the war with vigour, than ready to adopt new
regulations for the advantage of trade and manufactures. The society of the free British fishery
presented a petition, alleging, that they had employed the sum of one hundred and thirty thousand
three hundred and five pounds, eight shillings and sixpence, together with the entire produce
of their fish, and all the monies arising from the several branches allowed on the tonnage
of their shipping, and on the exportation of their fish, in carrying on the said fishery; and
that, from their being obliged, in the infancy of the undertaking, to incur a much larger expense
than was at that time foreseen, they now found themselves so far reduced in their capital,
as to be utterly incapable of further prosecuting the fisheries with any hope of success, unless
indulged with the further assistance of parliament. They prayed, therefore, that, towards enabling
them to carry on the said fisheries, they might have liberty to make use of such nets as they
should find best adapted to the said fisheries; each buss, nevertheless, carrying to sea the
same quantity and depth of netting, which, by the fishery acts, they were then bound to carry:
that the bounty of thirty shillings per ton, allowed by the said acts on the vessels employed
in the fishery, might be increased; and forasmuch as many of the stock proprietors were unable
to advance any further sum for prosecuting this branch of commerce; and others unwilling in
the present situation, and under the present restraints, to risk any further sum in the undertaking;
that the stock of the society, by the said acts made unalienable, except in case of death or
bankruptcy, for a term of years, might forthwith be made transferable; and that the petitioners
might be at liberty, between the intervals of the fishing seasons, to employ the busses in
such a manner as they should find for the advantage of the society. While the committee was
employed in deliberating on the particulars of this remonstrance, another was delivered from
the free British fishery chamber of Whitehaven in Cumberland, representing, that as the law
then stood, they went to Shetland, and returned at a great expense and loss of time; and while
the war continued, durst not stay there to fish, besides being obliged to run the most imminent
risks, by going and returning without convoy: that, ever since the institution of the present
fishery, experience had fully shown the fishery of Shetland not worth following, as thereby
the petitioners had lost two months of a much better fishery in St. George's channel, within
one day's sail of Whitehaven: they took notice, that the free British fishery society had applied
to the house for further assistance and relief; and prayed that Campbelton, in Argyleshire,
might be appointed the place of rendezvous for the busses belonging to Whitehaven, for the
summer as well as the winter fishery, that they might be enabled to fish with greater advantage.
The committee having considered the matter of both petitions, were of opinion that the petitioners
should be at liberty to use such nets as they should find best adapted to the white herring
fishery: that the bounty of thirty shillings per ton should be augmented to fifty: that the
petitioners should be allowed, during the intervals of the fishing seasons, to employ their
vessels in any other lawful business, provided they should have been employed in the herring
fishery during the proper seasons: that they might use such barrels for packing the fish as
they then used, or might hereafter find best adapted for that purpose: that they should have
liberty to make use of any waste or uncultivated land, one hundred yards at the least above
high water mark, for the purpose of drying their nets; and that Campbelton would be the most
proper and convenient place for the rendezvous of the busses belonging to Whitehaven. This
last resolution, however, was not inserted in the bill which contained the other five, and
in a little time received the royal assent.

ACT FOR IMPORTING AMERICAN IRON DUTY FREE.

Such are the connexions, dependencies, and relations subsisting between the mechanical arts,
agriculture, and manufactures of Great Britain, that it requires study, deliberation, and inquiry
in the legislature to discern and distinguish the whole scope and consequences of many projects
offered for the benefit of the commonwealth. The society of merchant adventurers in the city
of Bristol, alleged, in a petition to the house of commons, that great quantities of bar-iron
were imported into Great Britain from Sweden, Russia, and other parts, chiefly purchased with
ready money, some of which iron was exported again to Africa and other places: and the rest
wrought up by the manufacturers. They affirmed that bar-iron, imported from North America,
would answer the same purposes; and the importation of it tend not only to the great advantage
of the kingdom, by increasing its shipping and navigation, but also to the benefit of the British
colonies: that by an act passed in the twenty-third year of his present majesty's reign, the
importation of bar-iron from America into the port of London, duty free, was permitted; but
being carried coastwise, or farther by land than ten miles, had been prohibited; so that several
very considerable manufacturing towns were deprived of the use of American iron, and the out-ports
prevented from employing it in their export commerce: they requested, therefore, that bar-iron
might be imported from North America into Great Britain, duty free, by all his majesty's subjects.
This request being reinforced by many other petitions from different parts of the kingdom,
other classes of men, who thought their several interests would be affected by such a measure,
took the alarm; and, in divers counter-petitions, specified many ill consequences which they
alleged would arise from its being enacted into a law. Pamphlets were published on both sides
of the question, and violent disputes were kindled upon this subject, which was justly deemed
a matter of national importance. The opposers of the bill observed, that large quantities of
iron were yearly produced at home, and employed multitudes of poor people, there being no less
than one hundred and nine forges in England and Wales, besides those erected in Scotland, the
whole producing eighteen thousand tons of iron: that as the mines in Great Britain are inexhaustible,
the produce would of late years have been considerably increased, had not the people been kept
under continual apprehension of seeing American iron admitted duty free: a supposition which
had prevented the traders from extending their works, and discouraged many from engaging in
this branch of traffic; they alleged that the iron works, already carried on in England, occasioned
a consumption of one hundred and ninety-eight thousand cords of wood, produced in coppices
that grow upon barren lands, which could not otherwise be turned to any good account: that
as the coppices afford shade, and preserve a moisture in the ground, the pasture is more valuable
with the wood, than it would be if the coppices were grubbed up; consequently all the estates,
where these now grow, would sink in their yearly value; that these coppices, now cultivated
and preserved for the use of the iron works, are likewise absolutely necessary for the manufacture
of leather, as they furnish bark for the tanners, and that, according to the management of
these coppices, they produced a great number of timber trees, so necessary for the purposes
of building. They asserted, that neither the American iron, nor any that had yet been found
in Great Britain, was so proper for converting into steel as that which conies from Sweden,
particularly that sort called ore ground; but as there are mines in the northern parts of Britain,
nearly in the same latitude with those of Sweden, furnished with sufficient quantities of wood,
and rivers for mills and engines, it was hardly to be doubted but that people would find metal
of the same quality, and, in a few years, be able to prevent the necessity of importing iron
either from Sweden or Russia. They inferred that American iron could never interfere with that
which Great Britain imported from Sweden, because it was not fit for edged-tools, anchors,
chain plates, and other particulars necessary in ship building; nor diminish the importation
of Russian iron, which was not only harder than the American and British, but also could be
afforded cheaper than that brought from our own plantations, even though the duty of this last
should be removed. The importation of American iron, therefore, duty free, could interfere
with no other sort but that produced in Britain, with which, by means of this advantage, it
would clash so much, as to put a stop in a little time to all the iron works now carried on
in the kingdom, and reduce to beggary a great number of families whom they support. To these
objections the favourers of the bill solicited replied, that when a manufacture is much more
valuable than the rough materials, and these cannot be produced at home in sufficient quantities,
and at such a price as is consistent with the preservation of the manufacture, it is the interest
of the legislature, to admit a free importation of these materials, even from foreign countries,
although it should put an end to the production of that material in this island: that as the
neighbours of Great Britain are now more attentive than ever to their commercial interests,
and endeavouring to manufacture their rough materials at home, this nation must take every
method for lowering the price of materials, otherwise in a few years it will lose the manufacture;
and, instead of supplying other countries, be furnished by them with all the fine toys and
utensils made of steel and iron; that being in danger of losing not only the manufacture but
the produce of iron, unless it can be procured at a cheaper rate than that for which it is
sold at present, the only way of attaining this end is by diminishing the duty payable upon
the importation of foreign iron, or by rendering it necessary for the undertakers of the iron
mines in Great Britain to sell their produce cheaper than it has been for some years afforded;
that the most effectual method for this purpose is to raise up a rival, by permitting a free
importation of all sorts of iron from the American plantations; that American iron can never
be sold so cheap as that of Britain can be afforded; for, in the colonies, labour of all kinds
is much dearer than in England: if a man employs his own slaves, he must reckon in his charge
a great deal more than the common interest of their purchase money, because, when one of them
dies, or escapes from his master, he losses both interest and principal; that the common interest
of money in the plantations is considerably higher than in England, consequently no man in
that country will employ his money in any branch of trade by which he cannot gain considerably
more per cent, than is expected in Great Britain, where the interest is low, and profit moderate;
a circumstance which will always give a great advantage to the British miner, who likewise
enjoys an exemption from freight and insurance, which lie heavy upon the American adventurer,
especially in time of war. With respect to the apprehension of the leather tanners, they observed,
that as the coppices generally grew on barren lands, not fit for tillage, and improved the
pasturage, no proprietor would be at the expense of grubbing up the wood to spoil the pasture,
as he could make no other use of the land on which it was produced. This wood must be always
worth something, especially in counties where there is not plenty of coal, and the timber trees
would produce considerable advantage; therefore, if there was not one iron mine in Great Britain,
no coppice would be grubbed up, unless it grew on a rich soil, which would produce corn instead
of cord-wood; consequently, the tanners have nothing to fear, especially as planting hath become
a prevailing taste among the landholders of the island. The committee appointed to prepare
the bill, seriously weighed and canvassed these arguments, examined disputed facts, and inspected
papers and accounts relating to the produce, importation, and manufactory of iron. At length
Mr. John Pitt reported to the house their opinion, implying that the liberty granted by an
act passed in the twenty-third year of his majesty's reign, of importing bar-iron from the
British colonies in America into the port of London, should be extended to all the other ports
of Great Britain; and that so much of that act as related to this clause should be repealed.
The house having agreed to these resolutions, and the bill being-brought in accordingly, another
petition was presented by several noblemen, gentlemen, freeholders, and other proprietors,
owners, and possessors of coppices and woodlands, in the West Biding of Yorkshire, alleging,
that a permission to import American bar-iron, duty-free, would be attended with numberless
ill consequences both of a public and private nature; specifying certain hardships to which
they in particular would be exposed; and praying, that, if the bill should pass, they might
be relieved from the pressure of an act passed in the reign of Henry VIII. obliging the owners
of coppice woods to preserve them, under severe penalties; and be permitted to fell and grub
up their coppice woods, in order to a more proper cultivation of the soil, without being restrained
by the fear of malicious and interested prosecutions. In consequence of this remonstrance,
a clause was added to the bill, repealing so much of the act of Henry VIII. as prohibited the
conversion of coppice or under-woods into pasture or tillage; then it passed through both houses,
and received the royal sanction. As there was not time, after this affair came upon the carpet,
to obtain any new accounts from America, and as it was thought necessary to know the quantities
of iron made in that country, the house presented an address to his majesty, desiring he would
be pleased to give directions that there should be laid before them, in the next session of
parliament, an account of the quantity of iron made in the American colonies, from Christmas,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and forty-nine, to the fifth day of January, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six, each year being distinguished.

REGULATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE IMPORTATION OF SILK.

From this important object, the parliament converted its attention to a regulation of a much
more private nature. In consequence of a petition by the lord-mayor, aldermen, and commons
of the city of London, a bill was brought in, and passed into a law without opposition, for
the more effectual preservation and improvement of the fry and spawn of fish in the river Thames,
and waters of Medway, and for the better regulating the fishery in those rivers. The two next
measures taken for the benefit of the public were, first, a bill to render more effectual the
several laws then in being, for the amendment and preservation of the highways and turnpike-roads
of the kingdom; the other for the more effectually preventing the spreading of the contagious
distemper which, at that time, raged among the horned cattle. A third arose from the distress
of poor silk manufacturers, who were destitute of employment, and deprived of all means of
subsisting, through the interruption of the Levant trade; occasioned by the war, and the delay
of the merchant ships from Italy. In order to remedy this inconvenience, a bill was prepared,
enacting, that any person might import from any place, in any ship or vessel whatsoever, till
the first day of December, one thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven, organzine thrown silk
of the growth or production of Italy, to be brought to the custom-house of London, wheresoever
landed; but that no Italian thrown silk, coarser than Bologna, nor any tram of the growth of
Italy, nor any other thrown silk of the growth or production of Turkey, Persia, East Indies,
or China, should be imported by this act, under the penalty of the forfeiture thereof. Notwithstanding
several petitions, presented by the merchants, owners, and commanders of ships, and others
trading to Leghorn, and other ports of Italy, as well as by the importers and manufacturers
of raw silks, representing the evil consequences that would probably attend the passing of
such a bill, the parliament agreed to this temporary deviation from the famous act of navigation,
for a present supply to the poor manufacturers.

The next civil regulation established in this session of parliament was in itself judicious,
and, had it been more earnestly suggested, might have been more beneficial to the public. In
order to discourage the practice of smuggling, and prevent the desperadoes concerned therein
from enlisting in the service of the enemy, a law was passed, enacting, that every person who
had been, before the first of May in the present year, guilty of illegally running, concealing,
receiving, or carrying any wool, or prohibited goods, or any foreign commodities liable to
duties, the same not having been paid or secured; or of aiding therein, or had been found with
fire-arms or weapons, in order to be aiding to such offenders; or had been guilty of receiving
such goods after seizure; or of any act whatsoever, whereby persons might be deemed runners
of foreign goods; or of hindering, wounding, or beating any officer in the execution of his
duty, or assisting therein,--should be indemnified from all such offences, concerning which
no suit should then have been commenced, or composition made, on condition that he should,
before being apprehended or prosecuted, and before the first day of December, enter himself
with some commissioned officer of his majesty's fleet, to serve as a common sailor; and should,
for three years from such entry, unless sooner duly discharged, actually serve and do duty
in that station, and register his name, &c, with the clerk of the peace of the county where
he resided, as the act prescribes. An attempt was made in favour of the seamen employed in
the navy, who had been very irregularly paid, and subject to grievous hardships in consequence
of this irregularity. Mr. Grenville, brother to earl Temple, moved for leave to bring in a
bill for the encouragement of seamen employed in his majesty's navy, and for establishing a
regular method for the punctual, speedy, and certain payment of their wages, as well as for
rescuing them from the arts and frauds of imposition. The proposal was corroborated by divers
petitions: the bill was prepared, read, printed, and, after it had undergone some amendment,
passed into the house of lords, where it was encountered with several objections, and dropped
for this session of parliament.

INQUIRY INTO THE SCARCITY OF CORN.

The house of commons being desirous of preventing, for the future, such distresses as the poor
had lately undergone, appointed a committee to consider of proper provisions to restrain the
price of corn and bread within due bounds for the future. For this purpose they were empowered
to send for persons, papers, and records; and it was resolved, that all who attended the committee
should have voices. Having inquired into the causes of the late scarcity, they agreed to several
resolutions, and a bill was brought in to explain and amend the laws against regraters, forestalled,
and engrossers of corn. The committee also received instructions to inquire into the abuses
of millers, mealmen, and bakers, with regard to bread, and to consider of proper methods to
prevent them in the sequel; but no further progress was made in this important affair, which
was the more interesting, as the lives of individuals, in a great measure, depended upon a
speedy reformation; for the millers and bakers were said to have adulterated their flour with
common whiting, lime, bone ashes, alum, and other ingredients pernicious to the human constitution;
a consummation of villany for which no adequate punishment could be inflicted. Among the measures
proposed in parliament which did not succeed, one of the most remarkable was a bill prepared
by Mr. Rose Fuller, Mr. Charles Townshend, and Mr. Banks, to explain, amend, and render more
effectual a law passed in the reign of king William the Third, intituled,

"An act to punish governors of plantations, in this kingdom, for crimes committed by them in
the plantation." This bill was proposed in consequence of some complaints, specifying acts
of cruelty, folly, and oppression, by which some British governors had been lately distinguished;
but, before the bill could be brought in, the parliament was prorogued.

INVESTIGATION OF THE LOSS OF MINORCA.

But no step taken by the house of commons, in the course of this session, was more interesting
to the body of the people than the inquiry into the loss of Minorca, which had excited such
loud and universal clamour. By addresses to the king, unanimously voted, the commons requested
that his majesty would give directions for laying before them copies of all the letters and
papers containing any intelligence received by the secretaries of state, the commissioners
of the admiralty, or any others of his majesty's ministers, in relation to the equipment of
the French fleet at Toulon, or the designs of the French on Minorca, or any other of his majesty's
possessions in Europe, since the first day of January, in the year one thousand seven hundred
and fifty-five, to the first day of August, one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six. They
likewise desired to peruse a list of the ships of war that were equipped and made ready for
sea, from the first of August, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-five, to the
thirtieth day of April in the following year; with the copies of all sailing orders sent to
the commanders during that period; as also the state and condition of his majesty's ships in
the several ports of Great Britain at the time of admiral Byng's departure, with the squadron
under his command, for the relief of fort St. Philip, during the period of time above-mentioned,
according to the monthly returns made by the admiralty, with the number of seamen mustered
and borne aboard the respective ships. They demanded copies of all orders and instructions
given to that admiral, and of letters written to and received from him, during his continuance
in that command, either by the secretaries of state, or lords of the admiralty, relating to
the condition of his squadron, and to the execution of his orders. In a word, they required
the inspection of all papers which could, in any manner, tend to explain the loss of Minorca,
and the miscarriage of Mr. Byng's squadron. His majesty complied with every article of their
request: the papers were presented to the house, ordered to lie upon the table for the perusal
of the members, and finally referred to the consideration of a committee of the whole house.
In the course of their deliberations they addressed his majesty for more information, till
at length the truth seemed to be smothered under such an enormous burden of papers, as the
efforts of a whole session could not have properly removed. Indeed, many discerning persons
without doors began to despair of seeing the mystery unfolded, as soon as the inquiry was undertaken
by a committee of the whole house. They observed, that an affair of such a dark, intricate,
and suspicious nature, ought to have been referred to a select and secret committee, chosen
by ballot, empowered to send for persons, papers, and records, and to examine witnesses in
the most solemn and deliberate manner; that the names of the committee ought to have been published
for the satisfaction of the people, who could have judged, with some certainty, whether the
inquiry would be carried on with such impartiality as the national misfortune required. They
suspected that this reference to a committee of the whole house was a mal-contrivance, to prevent
a regular and minute investigation, to introduce confusion and contest, to puzzle, perplex,
and obumbrate; to teaze, fatigue, and disgust the inquirers, that the examination might be
hurried over in a superficial and perfunctory manner; and the ministry, from this anarchy and
confusion of materials, half explored and undigested, derive a general parliamentary approbation,
to which they might appeal from the accusations of the people. A select committee would have
probably examined some of the clerks of the respective offices, that they might certainly know
whether any letters or papers had been suppressed, whether the extracts had been faithfully
made, and whether there might not be papers of intelligence, which, though proper to be submitted
to a select and secret committee, could not, consistently with the honour of the nation, be
communicated to a committee of the whole house. Indeed, it does not appear that the ministers
had any foreign intelligence or correspondence that could be much depended upon in any matter
of national importance, and no evidence was examined on the occasion; a circumstance the less
to be regretted, as, in times past, evil ministers have generally found means to render such
inquiries ineffectual; and the same arts would, at any rate, have operated with the same efficacy,
had a secret committee been employed at this juncture. Be that as it may, several resolutions
were reported from the committee, though some of them were not carried by the majority without
violent dispute and severe altercation. The first and last of their resolutions require particular
notice. By the former, it appeared to the committee, that his majesty, from the twenty-seventh
day of August, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-five, to the twentieth day
of April in the succeeding year, received such repeated and concurrent intelligence, as gave
just reason to believe that the French king intended to invade his dominions of Great Britain
or Ireland. In the latter they declared their opinion, that no greater number of ships of war
could be sent into the Mediterranean, than were actually sent thither under the command of
admiral Byng; nor any greater reinforcement than the regiment which was sent, and the detachment,
equal to a battalion, which was ordered to the relief of fort St. Philip, consistently with
the state of the navy, and the various services essential to the safety of his majesty's dominions,
and the interest of his subjects. It must have been something more powerful than ordinary conviction
that suggested these opinions. Whatever reports might have been circulated by the French ministry,
in order to amuse, intimidate, and detach the attention of the English government from America
and the Mediterranean, where they really intended to exert themselves, yet, the circumstances
of the two nations being considered, one would think there could have been no just grounds
to fear an invasion of Great Britain or Ireland, especially when other intelligence seemed
to point out much more probable scenes of action. But the last resolution is still more incomprehensible
to those who know not exactly the basis on which it was raised. The number of ships of war
in actual commission amounted to two hundred and fifty, having on board fifty thousand seamen
and marines. Intelligence and repeated information of the French design upon Minorca had been
conveyed to the ministry of England, about six months before it was put in execution. Is it
credible, that in all this time the nation could not equip or spare above eleven ships of the
line and six frigates, to save the important island of Minorca? Is it easy to conceive, that
from a standing army of fifty thousand men, one regiment of troops could not have been detached
to reinforce a garrison, well known to be insufficient for the works it was destined to defend?
To persons of common intellects it appeared, that intelligence of the armament at Toulon was
conveyed to the admiralty as early as the month of September, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and fifty-five, with express notice that it would consist of twelve ships of the line:
that the design against Minorca was communicated as early as the twenty-seventh day of August,
by consul Banks, of Carthagena; confirmed by letters from consul Bertes, at Genoa, dated on
the seventeenth and twenty-sixth of January, and received by Mr. Fox, secretary of state, on
the fourth and eleventh of February, as well as by many subsequent intimations; that, notwithstanding
these repeated advices, even after hostilities had commenced in Europe, when the garrison of
Minorca amounted to no more than four incomplete regiments, and one company of artillery, forty-two
officers being absent, and the place otherwise unprovided for a siege, when the Mediterranean
squadron, commanded by Mr. Edgecumbe, consisted of two ships of the line, and five frigates;
neither stores, ammunition, or provisions, the absent officers belonging to the garrison, recruits
for the regiments, though ready raised, miners, nor any additional troops, were sent to the
island, nor the squadron augmented, till admiral Byng sailed from Spithead on the sixth day
of April, with no more ships of the line than, by the most early and authentic intelligence,
the government were informed would sail from Toulon, even when Mr. Byng should have been joined
by commodore Edgecumbe; a junction upon which no dependence ought to have been laid; that this
squadron contained no troops but such as belonged to the four regiments in garrison, except
one battalion to serve in the fleet as marines, unless we include the order for another to
be embarked at Gibraltar; which order was neither obeyed nor understood: that, considering
the danger to which Minorca was exposed, and the forwardness of the enemy's preparations at
Toulon, admiral Osborne, with thirteen ships of the line and one frigate, who returned on the
sixteenth of February, after having convoyed a fleet of merchant ships, might have been detached
to Minorca, without hazarding the coast of Great Britain; for at that time, exclusive of this
squadron, there were eight ships of the line and thirty-two frigates ready manned, and thirty-two
ships of the line and five frigates almost equipped; that admiral Hawke was sent with fourteen
ships of the line and one frigate to cruise in the bay of Biscay, after repeated intelligence
had been received that the French fleet had sailed for the West Indies, and the eleven ships
remaining at Brest and Rochefort were in want of hands and cannon, so that they could never
serve to cover any embarkation or descent, consequently Mr. Hawke's squadron might have been
spared for the relief of Minorca; that, instead of attending to this important object, the
admiralty, on the eighth day of March, sent two ships of the line and three frigates to intercept
a coasting convoy off Cape Barfleur: on the eleventh of the same month they detached two ships
of the line to the West Indies, and on the nineteenth two more to North America, where they
could be of little immediate service; on the twenty-third, two of the line and three frigates
a convoy-hunting off Cherbourg; and on the first of April five ships of the line, including
three returned from this last service, to reinforce sir Edward Hawke, already too strong for
the French fleet bound to Canada; that all these ships might have been added to Mr. Byng's
squadron, without exposing Great Britain or Ireland to any hazard of invasion: that at length
Mr. Byng was detached with ten great ships only, and even denied a frigate to repeat signals,
for which he petitioned; although at that very time there were in port, exclusive of his squadron,
seventeen ships of the line and thirteen frigates ready for sea, besides eleven of the line
and nineteen frigates almost equipped. From these and other circumstances, particularized and
urged with great vivacity, many individuals inferred, that a greater number of ships might
have been detached to the Mediterranean than were actually sent with admiral Byng; that the
not sending an earlier and stronger force was one great cause of Minorca's being lost, and
co-operated with the delay of the ministry in sending thither reinforcements of troops, their
neglect in suffering the officers of the garrison to continue absent from their duty, and their
omitting to give orders for raising miners to serve in the fortress of Mahon.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

EXAMINATION of the AMERICAN CONTRACT.

The next inquiry in which the house of commons engaged, related to the contracts for victualling
the forces in America, which were supposed by some patriots to be fraudulent and unconscionable.
This suspicion arose from an ambiguous expression, on which the contractor being interrogated
by the committee appointed to examine the particulars, he prudently interpreted it in such
a manner, as to screen himself from the resentment of the legislature. The house, therefore,
resolved that the contract entered into on the twenty-sixth day of March, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and fifty-six, by the commissioners of the treasury, with William Baker, Christopher
Kilby, and Richard Baker, of London, merchants, for furnishing provisions to the forces under
the command of the earl of Loudon, was prudent and necessary, and properly adapted to the securing
a constant and effectual supply for those forces in America.

INQUIRY INTO THE CONDUCT OF ADMIRAL KNOWLES, &c.

The preceding session an address had been presented to the king by the house of commons, desiring
his majesty would give orders for laying before them several papers relating to disputes which
had lately happened between his excellency Charles Knowles, esq., and some of the principal
inhabitants of the island of Jamaica. This governor was accused of many illegal, cruel, and
arbitrary acts, during the course of his administration; but these imputations he incurred
by an exertion of power, which was in itself laudable, and well intended for the commercial
interest of the island. This was his changing the seat of government, and procuring an act
of assembly for removing the several laws, records, books, papers, and writings belonging to
several offices in that island, from Spanish Town to Kingston; and for obliging the several
officers to keep their offices, and hold a supreme court of judicature, at this last place,
to which he had moved the seat of government. Spanish Town, otherwise called St. Jago de la
Vega, the old capital, was an inconsiderable inland place, of no security, trade, or importance;
whereas Kingston was the centre of commerce, situated on the side of a fine harbour filled
with ships, well secured from the insults of an enemy, large, wealthy, and flourishing. Here
the merchants dwell, and ship the greatest part of the sugars that grow upon the island. They
found it extremely inconvenient and expensive to take out their clearances at Spanish Town,
which stands at a considerable distance; and the same inconvenience and expense being felt
by the rest of the inhabitants, who had occasion to prosecute suits at law, or attend the assembly
of the island, they joined in representations to the governor, requesting, that, in consideration
of these inconveniences, added to that of the weakness of Spanish Town and the importance of
Kingston, the seat of government might be removed. He complied with their request, and in so
doing entailed upon himself the hatred and resentment of certain powerful planters, who possessed
estates in and about the old town of St. Jago de la Vega, thus deserted. This seems to have
been the real source of the animosity and clamour incurred by Mr. Knowles, against whom a petition,
signed by nineteen members of the assembly, had been sent to England, and presented to his
majesty.--In the two sessions preceding this year, the affair had been brought into the house
of commons, where this governor's character was painted in frightful colours, and divers papers
relating to the dispute were examined. Mr. Knowles having by this time returned to England,
the subject of his administration was revived, and referred to a committee of the whole house.
In the meantime, petitions were presented by several merchants of London and Liverpool, concerned
in the trade to Jamaica, alleging, that the removal of the public courts, offices, and records
of the island of Jamaica to Kingston, and fixing the seat of government there, had been productive
of many important advantages, by rendering the strength of the island more formidable, the
property of the traders and inhabitants more secure, and the prosecution of all commercial
business more expeditious and less expensive than formerly; therefore, praying that the purposes
of the act passed in Jamaica for that end might be carried into effectual execution, in such
manner as the house should think proper. From these resolutions the reader may perceive the
nature of the dispute which had arisen between the people of Jamaica and their governor, vice-admiral
Knowles, whose conduct on this occasion seems to have been justified by the legislature. The
parliament, however, forebore to determine the question, whether the removal of the courts
of judicature from Spanish Town to Kingston was a measure calculated for the interest of the
island in general.

RESOLUTIONS concerning MILFORD-HAVEN.

The last object which we shall mention, as having fallen under the cognizance of the commons
during this session of parliament, was the state of Milford-haven on the coast of Wales, one
of the most capacious, safe, and commodious harbours in Great Britain. Here the country affords
many conveniences for building ships of war, and erecting forts, docks, quays, and magazines.
It might be fortified at a very small expense, so as to be quite secure from any attempts of
the enemy, and rendered by far the most useful harbour in the kingdom for fleets, cruisers,
trading ships, and packet boats, bound to and from the westward; for from hence they may put
sea almost with any wind, and even at low water; they may weather Scilly and Cape Clear when
no vessel can stir from the British channel, or out of the French ports of Brest and Rochefort,
and as a post can travel from hence in three days to London, it might become the centre of
very useful sea intelligence. A petition from several merchants in London was presented, and
recommended to the house in a message from the king, specifying the advantages of this harbour,
and the small expense at which it might be fortified, and praying that the house would take
this important subject into consideration. Accordingly, a committee was appointed for this
purpose, with power to send for persons, papers, and records and every circumstance relating
to it was examined with accuracy and deliberation. At length the report being made to the house
by Mr. Charles Townshend, they unanimously agreed to an address, representing to his majesty,
that many great losses had been sustained by the trade of the kingdom, in time of war, from
the want of a safe harbour on the western coast of the island, for the reception and protection
of merchants' ships, and sending out cruisers; that the harbour of Milford-haven, in the county
of Pembroke, is most advantageously situated, and if properly defended and secured, in every
respect adapted to the answering those important purposes; they, therefore, humbly besought
his majesty, that he would give immediate directions for erecting batteries, with proper cover,
on the sides of the said harbour, in the most convenient places for guarding the entrance called
Hubber-stone-road, and also such other fortifications as might be necessary to secure the interior
parts of the harbour, and that, until such batteries and fortifications could be completed,
some temporary defence might be provided for the immediate protection of the ships and vessels
lying in the said harbour; finally, they assured him the house would make good to his majesty
all such expenses as should be incurred for these purposes. The address met with a gracious
reception, and a promise that such directions should be given. The harbour was actually surveyed,
the places were pitched upon for batteries, and the estimates prepared, but no further progress
hath since been made.

SESSION CLOSED.

We have now finished the detail of all the material transactions of this session, except what
relates to the fate of admiral Byng, which now claims our attention. In the meantime, we may
observe, that on the fourth day of July the session was closed with his majesty's harangue,
the most remarkable and pleasing paragraph of which turned upon his royal assurance, that the
succour and preservation of his dominions in America had been his constant care, and, next
to the security of his kingdoms, should continue to be his great and principal object. He told
them he had taken such measures as, he trusted, by the blessing of God, might effectually disappoint
the designs of the enemy in those parts; that he had no further view but to vindicate the just
rights of his crown and subjects from the most injurious encroachments; to preserve tranquillity,
as far as the circumstances of things might admit; to prevent the true friends of Britain,
and the liberties of Europe, from being oppressed and endangered by any unprovoked and unnatural
conjunction.

TRIAL OF ADMIRAL BYNG.

Of all the transactions that distinguished this year, the most extraordinary was the sentence
executed on admiral Byng, the son of that great officer who had acquired such honour by his
naval exploits in the preceding reign, and was ennobled for his services by the title of lord
viscount Torrington. His second son, John Byng, had from his earliest youth been trained to
his father's profession; and was generally esteemed one of the best officers in the navy, when
he embarked in that expedition to Minorca, which covered his character with disgrace, and even
exposed him to all the horrors of an ignominious death. On the twenty-eighth day of December
his trial began before a court-martial, held on board the ship St. George, in the harbour of
Portsmouth, to which place Mr. Byng had been conveyed from Greenwich by a party of horse-guards,
and insulted by the populace in every town and village through which he passed. The court having
proceeded to examine the evidences for the crown and the prisoner, from day to day, in the
course of a long sitting, agreed unanimously to thirty-seven resolutions, implying their opinion,
that admiral Byng, during the engagement between the British and French fleets, on the twentieth
day of May last, did not do his utmost endeavour to take, seize, and destroy the ships of the
French king, which it was his duty to have engaged, and to assist such of his majesty's ships
as were engaged, which it was his duty to have assisted; and that he did not exert his utmost-power
for the relief of St. Philip's castle. They, therefore, unanimously agreed that he fell under
part of the twelfth article of an act of parliament passed in the twenty-second year of the
present reign, for amending, explaining, and reducing into one act of parliament, the laws
relating to the government of his majesty's ships, vessels, and forces by sea; and as that
article positively prescribed death, without any alternative left to the discretion of the
court under any variation of circumstances, they unanimously adjudged the said admiral John
Byng to be shot to death, at such time, and on board of such ship, as the lords commissioners
of the admiralty should please to direct. But as it appeared, by the evidence of the officers
who were near the admiral's person, that no backwardness was perceivable in him during the
action, nor any mark of fear or confusion either in his countenance or behaviour; but that
he delivered his orders coolly and distinctly, without seeming deficient in personal courage;
and, from other circumstances, they believed his misconduct did not arise either from cowardice
or disaffection, they unanimously and earnestly recommended him as a proper object of mercy.
The admiral himself behaved through the whole trial with the most cheerful composure, seemingly
the effect of conscious innocence, upon which, perhaps, he too much relied. Even after he heard
the evidence examined against him, and finished his own defence, he laid his account in being
honourably acquitted; and ordered his coach to be ready for conveying him directly from the
tribunal to London. A gentleman, his friend, by whom he was attended, having received intimation
of the sentence to be pronounced, thought it his duty to prepare him for the occasion, that
he might summon all his fortitude to his assistance, and accordingly made him acquainted with
the information he had received. The admiral gave tokens of surprise and resentment, but betrayed
no marks of fear or disorder, either then or in the court when the sentence was pronounced.
On the contrary, while divers members of the court-martial manifested grief, anxiety, and trepidation,
shedding tears, and sighing with extraordinary emotion, he heard his doom denounced without
undergoing the least alteration of feature, and made a low obeisance to the president and the
other members of the court, as he retired.

The officers who composed this tribunal were so sensible of the law's severity, that they unanimously
subscribed a letter to the board of admiralty containing this remarkable paragraph:--"We cannot
help laying the distresses of our minds before your lordships on this occasion, in finding
ourselves under necessity of condemning a man to death, from the great severity of the twelfth
article of war, part of which he falls under, which admits of no mitigation if the crime should
be committed by an error in judgment; and, therefore, for our own consciences' sake, as well
as in justice to the prisoner, we pray your lordships, in the most earnest manner, to recommend
him to his majesty's clemency." The lords of the admiralty, instead of complying with the request
of the court-martial, transmitted their letter to the king, with copies of their proceedings,
and a letter from themselves to his majesty, specifying a doubt with regard to the legality
of the sentence, as the crime of negligence, for which the admiral had been condemned, was
not expressed in any part of the proceedings. At the same time, copies of two petitions from
George lord viscount Torrington, in behalf of his kinsman admiral Byng, were submitted to his
majesty's royal wisdom and determination. All the friends and relations of the unhappy convict
employed and exerted their influence and interest for his pardon; and, as the circumstances
had appeared so strong in his favour, it was supposed that the sceptre of royal mercy would
be extended for his preservation; but infamous arts were used to whet the savage appetite of
the populace for blood. The cry of vengeance was loud throughout the land: sullen clouds of
suspicion and malevolence interposing, were said to obstruct the genial beams of the best virtue
that adorns the throne; and the sovereign was given to understand, that the execution of admiral
Byng was a victim absolutely necessary to appease the fury of the people. His majesty, in consequence
of the representation made by the lords of the admiralty, referred the sentence to the consideration
of the twelve judges, who were unanimously of opinion that the sentence was legal. This report
being transmitted from the privy-council to the admiralty, their lordships issued a warrant
for executing the sentence of death on the twenty-eighth day of February. One gentleman at
the board, however, refused to subscribe the warrant, assigning for his refusal the reasons
which we have inserted by way of note, for the satisfaction of the reader. [401] [See note
3 H, at the end of this Vol.]

Though mercy was denied to the criminal, the crown seemed determined to do nothing that should
be thought inconsistent with law. A member of parliament, who had sat upon the court-martial
at Portsmouth, rose up in his place, and made application to the house of commons in behalf
of himself and several other members of that tribunal, praying the aid of the legislature to
be released from the oath of secrecy imposed on courts-martial, that they might disclose the
grounds on which sentence of death had passed on admiral Byng, and, perhaps, discover such
circumstances as might show the sentence to be improper. Although this application produced
no resolution in the house, the king, on the twenty-sixth day of February, sent a message to
the commons by Mr. Secretary Pitt, importing, that, though he had determined to let the law
take its course with relation to admiral Byng, and resisted all solicitations to the contrary,
yet, as a member of the house had expressed some scruples about the sentence, his majesty had
thought fit to respite the execution of it, that there might be an opportunity of knowing,
by the separate examination of the members of the court-martial, upon oath, what grounds there
were for such scruples, and that his majesty was resolved still to let the sentence be carried
into execution, unless it should appear from the said examination, that admiral Byng was unjustly
condemned. The sentence might be strictly legal, and, at the same time very severe, according
to the maxim, summum jus, summa injuria. In such cases, and perhaps in such cases only, the
rigour of the law ought to be softened by the lenient hand of the royal prerogative. That this
was the case of admiral Byng appears from the warm and eager intercession of his jury, a species
of intercession which hath generally, if not always, prevailed at the foot of the throne, when
any thing favourable for the criminal had appeared in the course of the trial. How much more
then might it have been expected to succeed, when earnestly urged as a case of conscience,
in behalf of a man whom his judges had expressly acquitted of cowardice and treachery, the
only two imputations that rendered him criminal in the eyes of the nation! Such an interposition
of the crown in parliamentary transactions was irregular, unnecessary, and at another juncture
might have been productive of violent heats and declamation. At present, however, it passed
without censure, as the effect of inattention, rather than a design to encroach upon the privileges
of the house.

BILL TO RELEASE THE MEMBERS OF THE COURT-MARTIAL, &c

The message being communicated, a bill was immediately brought in, to release the members of
the court-martial from the obligation of secrecy, and passed through the lower house without
opposition; but in the house of lords it appeared to be destitute of a proper foundation. They
sent a message to the commons, desiring them to give leave that such of the members of the
court-martial as were members of that house might attend their lordships, in order to be examined
on the second reading of the bill; accordingly they, and the rest of the court-martial, attended,
and answered all questions without hesitation. As they did not insist upon any excuse, nor
produce any satisfactory reason for showing that the man they had condemned was a proper object
of mercy, their lordships were of opinion that there was no occasion for passing any such bill,
which, therefore, they almost unanimously rejected. It is not easy to conceive what stronger
reasons could be given for proving Mr. Byng an object of mercy, than those mentioned in the
letter sent to the board of admiralty by the members of the court-martial, who were empowered
to try the imputed offence, consequently must have been deemed well qualified to judge of his
conduct.

EXECUTION OF ADMIRAL BYNG.

The unfortunate admiral being thus abandoned to the stroke of justice, prepared himself for
death with resignation and tranquillity. He maintained a surprising cheerfulness to the last;
nor did he, from his condemnation to his execution, exhibit the least sign of impatience or
apprehension. During that interval he had remained on board of the Monarque, a third-rate ship
of war, anchored in the harbour of Portsmouth, under a strong guard, in custody of the marshal
of the admiralty. On the fourteenth of March, the day fixed for his execution, the boats belonging
to the squadron at Spithead being manned and armed, containing their captains and officers,
with a detachment of marines, attended this solemnity in the harbour, which was also crowded
with an infinite number of other boats and vessels filled with spectators. About noon, the
admiral having taken leave of a clergyman, and two friends who accompanied him, walked out
of the great cabin to the quarter-deck, where two files of marines were ready to execute the
sentence. He advanced with a firm deliberate step, a composed and resolute countenance, and
resolved to suffer with his face uncovered, until his friends, representing that his looks
would possibly intimidate the soldiers, and prevent their taking aim properly, he submitted
to their request, threw his hat on the deck, kneeled on a cushion, tied one white handkerchief
over his eyes, and dropped the other as a signal for his executioners, who fired a volley so
decisive, that five balls passed through his body, and he dropped down dead in an instant.
The time in which this tragedy was acted, from his walking out of the cabin to his being deposited
in the coffin, did not exceed three minutes.

Thus fell, to the astonishment of all Europe, admiral John Byng; who, whatever his errors and
indiscretions might have been, seems to have been rashly condemned, meanly given up, and cruelly
sacrificed to vile considerations. The sentiments of his own fate he avowed on the verge of
eternity, when there was no longer any cause of dissimulation, in the following declaration,
which, immediately before his death, he delivered to the marshal of the admiralty: "A few moments
will now deliver me from the virulent persecution, and frustrate the further malice of my enemies:
nor need I envy them a life subject to the sensations my injuries, and the injustice done me,
must create. Persuaded I am, that justice will be done to my reputation hereafter: the manner
and cause of raising and keeping up the popular clamour and prejudice against me, will be seen
through. I shall be considered (as I now perceive myself) a victim destined to divert the indignation
and resentment of an injured and deluded people from the proper objects. My enemies themselves
must now think me innocent. Happy for me, at this my last moment, that I know my own innocence,
and am conscious that no part of my country's misfortunes can be owing to me. I heartily wish
the shedding my blood may contribute to the happiness and service of my country; but cannot
resign my just claim to a faithful discharge of my duty according to the best of my judgment,
and the utmost exertion of my ability for his majesty's honour, and my country's service. I
am sorry that my endeavours were not attended with more success, and that the armament under
my command proved too weak to succeed in an expedition of such moment. Truth has prevailed
over calumny and falsehood, and justice has wiped off the ignominious stain of my supposed
want of personal courage, and the charge of disaffection. My heart acquits me of these crimes;
but who can be presumptuously sure of his own judgment? If my crime is an error in judgment,
or differing in opinion from my judges, and if yet the error in judgment should be on their
side, God forgive them, as I do; and may the distress of their minds, and uneasiness of their
consciences, which in justice to me they have represented, be relieved, and subside as my resentment
has done. The supreme judge sees all hearts and motives, and to him I must submit the justice
of my cause."

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

REMARKS ON ADMIRAL BYNG'S FATE.

Notwithstanding all that has been said in his favour, notwithstanding the infamous arts that
were practised to keep up the cry against him, notwithstanding this solemn appeal to heaven
in his last moments, and even self-conviction of innocence, the character of admiral Byng,
in point of personal courage, will still, with many people, remain problematical. They will
still be of opinion, that if the spirit of a British admiral had been properly exerted, the
French fleet would have been defeated, and Minorca relieved. A man's opinion of danger varies
at different times, in consequence of an irregular tide of animal spirits, and he is actuated
by considerations which he dares not avow. After an officer, thus influenced, has hesitated
or kept aloof in the hour of trial, the mind, eager for its own justification, assembles, with
surprising industry, every favourable circumstance of excuse, and broods over them with parental
partiality, until it becomes not only satisfied, but even enamoured of their beauty and complexion,
like a doating mother, blind to the deformity of her own offspring. Whatever Mr. Byng's internal
feelings might have been, whatever consequences might have attended his behaviour on that occasion;
as the tribunal before which he was tried acquitted him expressly of cowardice and treachery,
he was, without all doubt, a proper object for royal clemency; and so impartial posterity will
judge him, after all those dishonourable motives of faction and of fear, by which his fate
was influenced, shall be lost in oblivion, or remembered with disdain. The people of Great
Britain, naturally fierce, impatient, and clamorous, have been too much indulged, upon every
petty miscarriage, with trials, courts-martial, and dismissions, which tend only to render
their military commanders rash and precipitate, the populace more licentious and intractable,
and to disgrace the national character in the opinion of mankind.

CHAPTER XIII.

     Mr. Pitt and Mr. Legge taken into the Administration.....
     Obliged to resign..... Restored to their Employments.....
     Coalition of Parties..... Descent on the Coast of France
     meditated..... Command of the Fleet given to Sir Edward
     Hawke, and of the Land-Forces to Sir John. Mordaunt.....
     Fleet sails September 8..... Admiral Knowles sent to take
     Aix..... Attack and Surrender of Aix..... A Descent resolved
     on..... The Fleet returns to Spithead..... His Majesty
     appoints a Board of Inquiry into the Reasons of the Fleet's
     Return..... Proceedings of the Court of Inquiry..... Its
     Report..... Sir John Mordaunt tried by a Court-Martial, and
     acquitted..... Fleets sent to the East and West Indies.....
     Success of the English Privateers..... Riots occasioned by
     the Price  of  Corn..... Operations   in America..... Lord
     Loudon's  Conduct  in America..... Fort William-Henry taken
     by the French..... Naval Transactions in America.....
     Attempt of M. de Kersin on Cape Coast Castle in Africa.....
     State of Affairs in the East Indies..... Calcutta
     recovered..... The Suba's Camp forced, and a new Treaty
     concluded with him..... Reduction, of Chandernagore.....
     Colonel Clive defeats the Suba at Plaissey, who is
     afterwards deposed and put to Death..... King of France
     assassinated..... Tortures inflicted on the Assassin.....
     Changes in the French Ministry..... State of the Confederacy
     against the King of Prussia..... Precautions taken by his
     Prussian Majesty..... Skirmishes between the Prussians and
     Austrians..... Neutrality of the Emperor, and Behaviour of the
     Dutch..... The French take Possession of several Towns in
     the Low Countries belonging to the King of Prussia.....
     Declaration of the Czarina against the King of Prussia.....
     Factions in Poland..... Fruitless Endeavours of the English
     to restore the Tranquillity of Germany..... King of Prussia
     enters Bohemia..... Prince of Bevern defeats the Austrians
     at Richenberg..... King of Prussia obtains a complete
     Victory over the Austrians near Prague..... Mareschal
     Schwerin killed..... Prague invested..... and bombarded.....
     Brave defence of the Besieged..... Count Daun takes the Command
     of the Austrian Army..... His Character..... King of Prussia
     defeated at Kolin..... He raises the Siege of Prague, and
     quits Bohemia..... Preparations for the Defence of
     Hanover..... The allied Army assembles under the Duke of
     Cumberland..... Skirmishes with the French..... Duke of
     Cumberland passes the Weser..... The French follow him, and
     take Minden and Emden, and lay Hanover under
     Contribution..... Battle of Hastenbeck..... The French take
     Hamelen..... Duke de Richelieu supersedes Mareschal d'Etrées
     in the Command of the French Army..... The French take
     Possession of Hanover and Hesse-Cassel..... and reduce
     Verden and Bremen..... Duke of Cumberland signs the
     Convention of Closter-Seven

{1757}

MR. PITT AND MR. LEGGE TAKEN INTO THE ADMINISTRATION.

Though the parliament of Great Britain unanimously concurred in strengthening the hands of
government for a vigorous prosecution of the war, those liberal supplies had like to have proved
ineffectual through a want of harmony in her councils. In the course of the last year the clamorous
voice of dissatisfaction had been raised by a series of disappointments and miscarriages, which
were imputed to want of intelligence, sagacity, and vigour in the administration. The defeat
of Braddock, the reduction of Oswego, and other forts in America, the delay of armaments, the
neglect of opportunities, ineffectual cruises, absurd dispositions of fleets and squadrons,
the disgrace in the Mediterranean, and the loss of Minorca, were numbered among the misfortunes
that flowed from the crude designs of a weak dispirited ministry; and the prospect of their
acquiescing in a continental war brought them still farther in contempt and detestation with
the body of the people. In order to conciliate the good-will of those whom their conduct had
disobliged, to acquire a fresh stock of credit with their fellow-subjects, and remove from
their own shoulders part of what future censure might ensue, they admitted into a share of
the administration a certain set of gentlemen, remarkable for their talents and popularity,
headed by Mr. Pitt and Mr. Legge, esteemed the two most illustrious patriots of Great Britain,
alike distinguished and admired for their unconquerable spirit and untainted integrity. The
former of these was appointed secretary of state, and the other chancellor of the exchequer;
and their friends were vested with other honourable though subordinate offices.

So far the people were charmed with the promotion of individuals, upon whose virtues and abilities
they had the most perfect reliance; but these new ingredients would never thoroughly mix with
the old leaven. The administration became an emblem of the image that Nebuchadnezzar saw in
his dream, the leg was of iron, and the foot was of clay. The old junta found their new associates
very unfit for their purposes. They could neither persuade, cajole, nor intimidate them into
measures which they thought repugnant to the true interest of their country. The new ministers
combated in council every such plan, however patronised; they openly opposed in parliament
every design which they deemed unworthy of the crown, or prejudicial to the people, even though
distinguished by the predilection of the sovereign. Far from bargaining for their places, and
surrendering their principles by capitulation, they maintained in office their independency
and candour with the most vigilant circumspection, and seemed determined to show, that he is
the best minister to the sovereign who acts with the greatest probity towards the subject.
Those who immediately surrounded the throne were supposed to have concealed the true characters
of these faithful servants from the knowledge of their royal master; to have represented them
as obstinate, imperious, ignorant, and even lukewarm in their loyalty; and to have declared,
that with such colleagues it would be impossible to move the machine of government according
to his majesty's inclination. These suggestions, artfully inculcated, produced the desired
effect: on the ninth day of April, Mr. Pitt, by his majesty's command, resigned the seals of
secretary of state for the southern department. In the room of Mr. Legge, the king was pleased
to grant the office of chancellor of the exchequer to the right honourable lord Mansfield,
chief-justice of the court of king's bench, the same personage whom we have mentioned before
under the name of Mr. Murray, solicitor-general, now promoted and ennobled for his extraordinary
merit and important services. The fate of Mr. Pitt was extended to some of his principal friends:
the board of admiralty was changed, and some other removals were made with the same intention.

What was intended as a disgrace to Mr. Pitt and Mr. Legge turned out one of the most shining
circumstances of their characters. The whole nation seemed to rise up, as one man, in the vindication
of their fame; every mouth was opened in their praise; and a great number of respectable cities
and corporations presented them with the freedom of their respective societies, enclosed in
gold boxes of curious workmanship, as testimonies of their peculiar veneration. What the people
highly esteem, they in a manner idolize. Not contented with making offerings so flattering
and grateful to conscious virtue, they conceived the most violent prejudices against those
gentlemen who succeeded in the administration; fully convinced, that the same persons who had
sunk the nation in the present distressful circumstances, who had brought on her dishonour,
and reduced her to the verge of destruction, were by no means the fit instruments of her delivery
and redemption. The whole kingdom caught fire at the late changes; nor could the power, the
cunning, and the artifice of a faction, long support itself against the united voice of Great
Britain, which soon pierced the ears of the sovereign. It was not possible to persuade the
people that salutary measures could be suggested or pursued, except by the few, whose zeal
for the honour of their country, and steady adherence to an upright disinterested conduct,
had secured their confidence, and claimed their veneration. A great number of addresses, dutifully
and loyally expressed, solicited the king, ever ready to meet half-way the wishes of his faithful
people, to restore Mr. Pitt and Mr. Legge to their former employments. Upon this they rested
the security and honour of the nation, as well as the public expectation of the speedy and
successful issue of a war, hitherto attended with disgraces and misfortunes. Accordingly, his
majesty was graciously pleased to redeliver the seals to Mr. Pitt, appointing him secretary
of state for the southern department, on the twenty-ninth day of June; and, five days after,
the office of chancellor of the exchequer was restored to Mr. Legge; promotions that afforded
universal satisfaction.

COALITION OF PARTIES.

It would not, perhaps, be possible to exclude, from a share in the administration, all who
were not perfectly agreeable to the people: however unpopular the late ministry might appear,
still they possessed sufficient influence in the privy-council, and credit in the house of
commons, to thwart every measure in which they did not themselves partake. This consideration,
and very recent experience, probably dictated the necessity I of a coalition, salutary in itself,
and prudent, because it was the only means of assuaging the rage of faction, and healing those
divisions, more pernicious to the public than the most mistaken and blundering councils. Sir
Robert Henley was made lord-keeper of the great seal, and sworn of his majesty's privy-council,
on the thirteenth day of June; the custody of the privy-seal was committed to earl Temple;
his grace the duke of Newcastle, Mr. Legge, Mr. Nugent, lord viscount Dun-cannon, and Mr. Grenville,
were appointed commissioners for executing the office of treasurer to his majesty's exchequer.
Lord Anson, admirals Boscawen and Forbes, Dr. Hay, Mr. West, Mr. Hunter, and Mr. Elliot, to
preside at the board of admiralty; Mr. Fox was gratified with the office of receiver and paymaster-general
of all his majesty's guards, garrisons, and land-forces; and the earl of Thomond was made treasurer
of the king's household, and sworn of his majesty's privy-council. Other promotions likewise
took place, with a design to gratify the adherents of either party; and so equally was the
royal favour distributed, that the utmost harmony for a long time subsisted. Ingredients, seemingly
heterogeneous, consolidated into one uniform mass, so as to produce effects far exceeding the
most sanguine expectations; and this prudent arrangement proved displeasing only to those whom
violent party attachment had inspired with a narrow and exclusive spirit.

DESCENT ON THE COAST OF FRANCE MEDITATED.

The accumulated losses and disappointments of the preceding year, made it absolutely necessary
to retrieve the credit of the British arms and councils by some vigorous and spirited enterprise,
which should, at the same time, produce some change in the circumstances of his Prussian majesty,
already depressed by the repulse at Kolin, and in danger of being attacked by the whole power
of France, now ready to fall upon him, like a torrent, which had so lately swept before it
the army of observation, now on the brink of disgrace. A well-planned and vigorous descent
on the coast of France, it was thought, would probably give a decisive blow to the marine of
that kingdom, and at the same time effect a powerful diversion in favour of the Prussian monarch
and the duke of Cumberland, driven from all his posts in the electorate of Hanover, by drawing
a part of the French forces to the defence and protection of their own coasts. Both were objects
of great concern, upon which the sovereign and ministry were sedulously bent. His royal highness
the duke, in a particular manner, urged the necessity of some enterprise of this nature, as
the only expedient to obviate the shameful convention now in agitation. The ministry foresaw,
that, by destroying the enemy's shipping, all succours would be cut off from America, whither
they were daily transporting troops; the British commerce secured, without those convoys so
inconvenient to the board of admiralty, and to the merchants; and those ideal fears of an invasion,
that had in some measure affected the public credit, wholly dispelled.

COMMAND OF THE FLEET GIVEN TO SIR EDWARD HAWKE, &c.

From these considerations, a powerful fleet was ordered to be got in readiness to put to sea
on the shortest notice, and ten regiments of foot were marched to the Isle of Wight. The naval
armament, consisting of eighteen ships of the line, besides frigates, fireships, bomb-ketches,
and transports, was put under the command of sir Edward Hawke, an officer whose faithful services
recommended him, above all others, to this command; and rear-admiral Knowles was appointed
his subaltern. Sir John Mordaunt was preferred to take the command of the land-forces: and
both strictly enjoined to act with the utmost unanimity and harmony. Europe beheld with astonishment
these mighty preparations. The destination of the armament was wrapped in the most profound
secrecy: it exercised the penetration of politicians, and filled France with very serious alarms.
Various were the impediments which obstructed the embarkation of the troops for several weeks,
while Mr. Pitt expressed the greatest uneasiness at the delay, and repeatedly urged the commander-in-chief
to expedite his departure; but a sufficient number of transports, owing to some blunder in
the contractors, had not yet arrived. The troops expressed an eager impatience to signalize
themselves against the enemies of the liberties of Europe; but the superstitious drew unfavourable
presages from the dilatoriness of the embarkation. At last the transports arrived, the troops
were put on board with all expedition, and the fleet got under sail on the eighth day of September,
attended with the prayers of every man warmed with the love of his country, and solicitous
for her honour. The public, big with expectation, dubious where the stroke would fall, but
confident of its success, were impatient for tidings from the fleet; but it was not till the
fourteenth, that even the troops on board began to conjecture that a descent was meditated
on the coast of France, near Rochefort or Rochelle.

ADMIRAL KNOWLES SENT TO TAKE AIX.

On the twentieth, the fleet made the isle of Oleron, and then sir Edward Hawke sent an order
to vice-admiral Knowles, requiring him, if the wind permitted the fleet, to proceed to Basque
road, to stand in as near to the isle of Aix as the pilot would carry him, with such ships
of his division as he thought necessary for the service, and to batter the fort till the garrison
should either abandon or surrender it. But the immediate execution of this order was frustrated
by a French ship of war standing in to the very middle of the fleet, and continuing in that
station for some time before she discovered her mistake, or any of the captains had a signal
thrown out to give chase. Admiral Knowles, when too late, ordered the Magnanime, captain Howe,
and Torbay, captain Keppel, on that service, and thereby retarded the attack upon which he
was immediately sent. A stroke of policy greatly to be admired, as from hence he gained time
to assure himself of the strength of the fortifications of Aix, before he ran his majesty's
ships into danger.

ATTACK AND SURRENDER OF AIX.

While the above ships, with the addition of the Royal William, were attending the French ship
of war safe into the river Garonne, the remainder of the fleet was beating to windward off
the isle of Oleron; and the commander-in-chief publishing orders and regulations which did
credit to his judgment, and would have been highly useful, had there ever been occasion to
put them in execution. On the twenty-third the van of the fleet, led by captain Howe in the
Magnanime, stood towards Aix, a small island situated in the mouth of the river Charente, leading
up to Rochefort, the fortifications half finished, and mounted with about thirty cannon and
mortars, the garrison composed of six hundred men, and the whole island about five miles in
circumference. As the Magnanime approached, the enemy fired briskly upon her; but captain Howe,
regardless of their faint endeavours, kept on his course without flinching, dropping his anchors
close to the walls, and poured in so incessant a fire as soon silenced their artillery. It
was, however, near an hour before the fort struck, when some forces were landed to take possession
of so important a conquest, with orders to demolish the fortifications, the care of which was
intrusted to vice-admiral Knowles.

Inconsiderable as this success might appear, it greatly elated the troops, and was deemed a
happy omen of further advantages; but, instead of embarking the troops that night, as was universally
expected, several successive days were spent in councils of war, soundings of the coast, and
deliberations whether the king's express orders were practicable, or to be complied with. Eight
days were elapsed since the first appearance of the fleet on the coast, and the alarm was given
to the enemy. Sir Edward Hawke, indeed, proposed laying a sixty gun ship against Fouras, and
battering that fort, which it was thought would help to secure the landing of the troops, and
facilitate the enterprise on Rochefort. This a French pilot on board, Thierry, undertook; but
after a ship had been lighted for the purpose, vice-admiral Knowles reported, that a bomb-ketch
had run a-ground at above the distance of two miles from the fort; upon which the project of
battering or bombarding the fort was abandoned. The admiral likewise proposed to bombard Koch
elle; but this overture was over-ruled, for reasons which we need not mention. It was at length
determined, in a council of war held on the eighth, to make a descent, and attack the forts
leading to and upon the mouth of the river Charente. An order, in consequence of this resolution,
was immediately issued for the troops to be ready to embark from the transports in the boats
precisely at twelve o'clock at night. Accordingly the boats were prepared and filled with the
men at the time appointed, and now they remained beating against each other, and the sides
of the ships, for the space of four hours, while the council were determining whether, after
all the trouble given, they should land; when at length an order was published for the troops
to return to their respective transports, and all thoughts of a descent, to appearance, were
wholly abandoned. The succeeding days were employed in blowing up and demolishing the fortifications
of Aix; after which, the land officers, in a council of war, took the final resolution of returning
to England without any further attempts, fully satisfied they had done all in their power to
execute the designs of the ministry, and choosing rather to oppose the frowns of an angry sovereign,
the murmurs of an incensed nation, and the contempt of mankind, than fight a handful of dastardly
militia. Such was the issue of an expedition that raised the expectations of all Europe, threw
the coasts of France into the utmost confusion, and cost the people of England little less
than a million of money.

THE FLEET RETURNS TO SPITHEAD.

The fleet was no sooner returned than the whole nation was in a ferment. The public expectation
had been wound up to the highest pitch, and now the disappointment was proportioned to the
sanguine hopes conceived, that the pride of France would have been humbled by so formidable
an armament. The ministry, and with them the national voice, exclaimed against the commanding
officers, and the military men retorted the calumny by laying the blame on the projectors of
the enterprise, who had put the nation to great expense before they had obtained the necessary
information. Certain it was, that blame must fall somewhere, and the ministry resolved to acquit
themselves and fix the accusation, by requesting his majesty to appoint a board of officers
of character and ability, to inquire into the causes of the late miscarriage. This alone it
was that could appease the public clamours, and afford general satisfaction. The enemies of
Mr. Pitt endeavoured to wrest the miscarriage of the expedition to his prejudice, but the whispers
of faction were soon drowned in the voice of the whole people of England, who never could persuade
themselves that a gentleman raised to the height of power and popularity by mere dint of superior
merit, integrity, and disinterestedness, would now sacrifice his reputation by a mock armament,
or hazard incurring the derision of Europe, by neglecting to obtain all the necessary previous
information, or doing whatever might contribute to the success of the expedition. It was asked,
Whether reason or justice dictated, that a late unfortunate admiral should be capitally punished
for not trying and exerting his utmost ability to relieve fort St. Philip, invested by a powerful
army, and surrounded with a numerous fleet, while no charge of negligence or cowardice was
brought against those who occasioned the miscarriage of a well-concerted and well-appointed
expedition? The people, they said, were not to be quieted with the resolutions of a council
of war, composed of men whose inactivity might frame excuses for declining to expose themselves
to danger. It was publicly mentioned, that such backwardness appeared among the general officers
before the fleet reached the isle of Oleron, as occasioned the admiral to declare, with warmth,
that he would comply with his orders, and go into Basque-road, whatever might be the consequence.
It was asked, Why the army did not land on the night of the twenty-third or twenty-fourth,
and whether the officers sent out to reconnoitre, had returned with such intelligence as seemed
to render a descent impracticable? It was asked, Whether the commander-in-chief had complied
with his majesty's orders, "To attempt, as far as should be found practicable, a descent on
the coast of France, at or near Rochefort, in order to attack, and, by a vigorous impression,
force that place; and to burn and destroy, to the utmost of his power, all docks, magazines,
arsenals, and shipping, as shall be found there?" Such rumours as these, everywhere propagated,
rendered an inquiry no less necessary to the reputation of the officers on the expedition,
than to the minister who had projected it. Accordingly, a board consisting of three officers
of rank, reputation, and ability, was appointed by his majesty, to inquire into the reasons
why the fleet returned without having executed his majesty's orders.

The three general officers, who met on the twenty-first of the same month, were, Charles duke
of Marlborough, lieutenant-general, major-generals lord George Sackville and John Waldegrave.
To judge of the practicability of executing his majesty's orders, it was necessary to inquire
into the nature of the intelligence upon which the expedition was projected. The first and
most important was a letter sent to sir John, afterwards lord Ligonier, by lieutenant-colonel
Clark.. This letter had been frequently examined in the privy-council, and contained, in substance,
that colonel Clark, in returning from Gibraltar, in the year one thousand-seven hundred and
fifty four, had travelled along the western coast of France, to observe the condition of the
fortifications, and judge how far a descent would be practicable, in case of a rupture between
Great Britain and France. On his coming to Rochefort, where he was attended by an engineer,
he was surprised to find the greatest part of a good rampart, with a revetment, flanked only
with redans; no outworks, no covered-way, and in many places no ditch, so that the bottom of
the wall was seen at a distance. He remembered, that in other places, where the earth had been
taken out to form the rampart, there was left around them a considerable height of ground,
whence an enemy might draw a great advantage; that for above the length of a front, or two
or three hundred yards, there was no rampart, or even intrenchment, but only small ditches,
in the low and marshy grounds next the river, which, however, were dry at low water, yet the
bottom remained muddy and slimy. Towards the river, no rampart, no batteries, no parapet, on
either side appeared, and on the land-side he observed some high ground within the distance
of one hundred and fifty or two hundred yards of the town; in which condition, the colonel
was told by the engineer, the place had remained for above seventy years. To prevent giving
umbrage, he drew no plan of the place, and even burnt the few sketches he had by him: however,
as to utility, the colonel declared himself as much satisfied as if he had taken a plan. He
could not ascertain the direct height of the rampart, but thought it could not exceed twenty-five
feet, including the parapet. The river might be about one hundred and thirty feet broad, and
the entrance defended by two or three small redoubts. As to forces, none are ever garrisoned
at Eochefort, except marines, which at the time the colonel was on the spot amounted to about
one thousand. This was the first intelligence the ministry received of the state of Rochefort,
which afforded sufficient room to believe, that an attack by surprise might be attended with
happy consequences. It was true that colonel Clark made his observations in time of peace;
but it was likewise probable that no great alterations were made on account of the war, as
the place had remained in the same condition during the two or three last wars with France,
when they had the same reasons as now to expect their coasts would be insulted. The next information
was obtained from Joseph Thierry, a French pilot, of the protestant religion, who passed several
examinations before the privy-council. This person declared, that he had followed the business
of a pilot on the coast of France for the space of twenty years, and served as first pilot
in several of the king's ships; that he had, in particular, piloted the Magnanime, before she
was taken by the English, for about twenty-two months, and had often conducted her into the
road of the isle of Aix; and that he was perfectly acquainted with the entrance, which indeed
is so easy as to render a pilot almost unnecessary. The road, he said, afforded good anchorage
in twelve or fourteen fathoms water, as far as Bayonne; the channel between the islands of
Oleron and Rhé was three leagues broad, and the banks necessary to be avoided lay near the
land, except one called the Board, which is easily discerned by the breakers. He affirmed,
that the largest vessels might draw up close to the fort of Aix, which he would undertake the
Magnanime alone should destroy; that the largest ships might come up to the Vigerot, two miles
distant from the mouth of the river, with all their cannon and stores; that men might be landed
to the north of fort Fouras, out of sight of the fort, upon a meadow where the ground is firm
and level, under cover of the cannon of the fleet. This landing-place he reckoned at about
five miles from Rochefort, the way dry, and no way intercepted by ditches and morasses. He
said, great part of the city was encompassed by a wall; but towards the river, on both sides,
for about sixty paces, it was enclosed only with pallisadoes, without a fosse. To the intelligence
of colonel Clark and Thierry, the minister added a secret account obtained of the strength
and distribution of the French forces, whence it appeared highly probable that no more than
ten thousand men could be allowed for the defence of the whole coast, from St. Valéry to Bourdeaux.
In consequence of the above information the secret expedition was planned; instructions were
given to sir John Mordaunt and admiral Hawke to make a vigorous impression on the French coast,
and all the other measures projected, which, it was imagined, would make an effectual diversion,
by obliging the enemy to employ a great part of their forces at home, disturb and shake the
credit of their public loans, impair the strength and resources of their navy, disconcert their
extensive and dangerous operations of war, and, finally, give life, strength, and lustre to
the common cause and his majesty's arms. The board of inquiry took next into consideration
the several letters and explanatory instructions sent to sir John Mordaunt, in consequence
of some difficulties which might possibly occur, stated by that general in letters to the minister,
previous to his sailing. Then they examined the report made to sir Edward Hawke by admiral
Broderick, and the captains of the men of war sent to sound the French shore from Rochelle
to fort Fouras, dated September the twenty-ninth; the result of the councils af war on the
twenty-fifth and twenty-eighth; sir Edward Hawke's letter to sir John Mordaunt on the twenty-seventh,
and the general's answer on the twenty-ninth: after which sir John Mordaunt was called upon
to give his reasons for not putting his majesty's instructions and orders into execution. This
he did in substance as follows: the attempt on Rochefort, he understood, was to have been on
the footing of a coup de main or surprise, which it would be impossible to execute if the design
was discovered, or the alarm taken. He also understood that an attempt could not be made, nay
that his majesty did not require it should, unless a proper place for debarking, and a safe
retreat for the troops was discovered, particularly where the ships could protect them; and
a safe communication with the fleet, and conveyance of supplies from it, were found. His sentiments,
he said, were confirmed by a paper to this purpose, delivered to him by sir John Ligonier,
on his first being appointed to command the expedition. It was likewise probable, he thought,
that although Rochefort should have remained in the situation in which colonel Clark and the
pilot Thierry had seen it three years before, yet that a few days' preparation could make it
sufficiently defensible against a coup de main. Judging therefore the dependence on such an
operation alone improper, he applied to the ministry for two more old battalions, and artillery
for a regular attack to force the place, which, from its construction, appeared as difficult
to be made defensible against the latter, as easily secured against the former. But this request
being refused, he still thought it his duty to obey his orders on the footing on which the
expedition was planned, especially as he understood his instructions were discretionary, regarding
the circumstances of the time, the condition of the place, and the nature of the service. He
recited the positive and credible intelligence received, as well before the embarkation as
during the voyage, of the alarm given to France, and the preparations made along the French
coasts from Brest and St. Maloes to Rochefort; the accidents that kept the fleet hovering along
the coasts, and prevented the possibility of an attempt by surprise; the reports of all the
gentlemen employed in sounding the coasts, so contrary to the intelligence given by Thierry
the pilot; the opinion of the council of war, by which he was enjoined to act, and with which
his own judgment concurred; the endeavours used, after the twenty-sixth, to find out some expedient
for annoying the enemy and executing his majesty's instructions; the attempt made to land,
in consequence of the resolution of the second council of war, which was prevented by boisterous
and stormy weather; and lastly, the reasons that determined him, in concert with the other
land officers, to return to England.

Having considered all these circumstances, and examined several officers who served in the
expedition, the court of inquiry gave in the following report to his majesty:--"It appears
to us, that one cause of the expedition having failed is, the not attacking fort Fouras by
sea, at the same time that it could have been attacked by land, agreeably to the first design,
which certainly must have been of the greatest utility towards carrying your majesty's instructions
into execution. It was at first resolved by admiral Hawke; (Thierry, the pilot, having undertaken
the safe conduct of a ship to fort Fouras for that purpose), but afterwards laid aside, upon
the representation of vice-admiral Knowles, that the Bar-fleur, the ship designed for that
service, was a-ground, at the distance of between four and five miles from the shore; but as
neither sir Edward Hawke nor the pilot could attend to give any information upon that head,
we cannot presume to offer any certain opinion thereupon. We conceive another cause of the
failure of the expedition to have been, that, instead of attempting to land when the report
was received, on the twenty-fourth of September, from rear-admiral Broderick, and the captains
who had been out to sound and reconnoitre, a council of war was summoned and held on the twenty-fifth,
in which it was unanimously resolved not to land, as the attempt on Rochefort was neither advisable
nor practicable; but it does not appear to us that there were then or at any time afterwards,
either a body of troops or batteries on shore sufficient to have prevented the attempting a
descent, in pursuance of the instructions signed by your majesty; neither does it appear to
us that there were any reasons sufficient to induce the council of war to believe that Rochefort
was so changed in respect to its strength, or posture of defence, since the expedition was
first resolved on in England, as to prevent all attempts of an attack upon the place, in order
to burn and destroy the docks, magazines, arsenals, and shipping, in obedience to your majesty's
command. And we think ourselves obliged to remark, in the council of war on the twenty-eighth
of September, that no reason could have existed sufficient to prevent the attempt of landing
the troops, as the council then unanimously resolved to land with all possible despatch. We
beg leave also to remark, that after its being unanimously resolved to land, in the council
of war of the twenty-eighth of September, the resolution was taken of returning to England,
without any regular or general meeting of the said council; but as the whole operation was
of so inconsiderable a nature, we do not offer this to your majesty as a cause of the failure
of the expedition; since we cannot but look upon the expedition to have failed from the time
the great object of it was laid aside in the council of war of the twenty-fifth."

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

SIR JOHN MORDAUNT TRIED BY A COURT-MARTIAL.

This report, signed by the general officers, Marlborough, Sackville, and Waldegrave, probably
laid the foundation for the court-martial which sat soon after upon the conduct of the commander-in-chief
of the expedition. The enemies of the minister made a handle of the miscarriage to lessen him
in the esteem of the public, by laying the whole blame on his forming a project so expensive
to the nation, on intelligence not only slight at the first view, but false upon further examination.
But the people were still his advocates; they discerned something mysterious in the whole conduct
of the commander-in-chief. They plainly perceived that caution took the place of vigour, and
that the hours for action were spent in deliberations and councils of war. Had he debarked
the troops, and made such an attack as would have distinguished his courage, the voice of the
people would have acquitted him, however unsuccessful, though prudence perhaps might have condemned
him. Even Braddock's rashness they deemed preferable to Mor-daunt's inactivity: the loss of
so many brave lives was thought less injurious and disgraceful to the nation, than the too
safe return of the present armament. The one demonstrated that the British spirit still existed;
the other seemed to indicate the too powerful influence of wealth, luxury, and those manners
which tend to debauch and emasculate the mind. A public trial of the commander-in-chief was
expected by the people, and it was graciously granted by his majesty. It is even thought that
Sir John Mordaunt himself demanded to have his conduct scrutinized, by which method alone he
was sensible his character could be re-established. His majesty's warrant for holding a court-martial
was accordingly signed on the third day of December. The court was composed of nine lieutenant-generals,
nine major-generals, and three colonels, who sat on the fourteenth, and continued by several
adjournments to the twentieth. Lieutenant-general Sir John Mordaunt came prisoner before the
court, and the following charge was exhibited against him; namely, that he being appointed,
by the king, commander-in-chief of his majesty's forces sent on an expedition to the coast
of France, and having received orders and instructions relative thereto, from his majesty,
under his royal sign-manual, and also by one of his principal secretaries of state, had disobeyed
his majesty's said orders and instructions. The proceedings of this court were nearly similar
to those of the court of inquiry. The same evidences were examined, with the addition of sir
Edward Hawke's deposition; and a defence, differing in no essential point from the former,
made by the prisoner; but the judgment given was clear and explicit. Sir John Mordaunt was
unanimously found Not Guilty, and therefore acquitted, while the public opinion remained unaltered,
and many persons inveighed as bitterly against the lenity of the present court-martial, as
they had formerly against the severity of the sentence passed upon a late unfortunate admiral.
The evidence of one gentleman in particular drew attention: he was accused of tergiversation,
and of showing that partial indulgence which his own conduct required. He publicly defended
his character: his performance was censured, and himself dismissed the service of his sovereign.

FLEETS SENT TO THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.

Besides the diversion intended by a descent on the coast of France, several other methods were
employed to amuse the enemy, as well as to protect the trade of the kingdom, secure our colonies
in the West Indies, and ensure the continuance of the extraordinary success which had lately
blessed his majesty's arms in the East Indies; but these we could not mention before without
breaking the thread of our narration. On the ninth of February, admiral West sailed with a
squadron of men of war to the westward, as did admiral Coates with the fleet under his convoy
to the West Indies, and commodore Stevens with the trade to the East Indies, in the month of
March. Admiral Holbourn and commodore Holmes, with eleven ships of the line, a fire-ship, bomb-ketch,
and fifty transports, sailed from St. Helen's for America in April. The admiral had on board
six thousand two hundred effective men, exclusive of officers, under the command of general
Hopson, assisted by lord Charles Hay. In May, admiral Osborne, who had been forced back to
Plymouth with his squadron by stress of weather, set sail for the Mediterranean, as did two
ships of war sent to convoy the American trade.

In the meantime, the privateers fitted out by private merchants and societies, greatly annoyed
the French commerce. The Antigallican, a private ship of war, equipped by a society of men
who assumed that name, took the duke de Penthievre Indiaman, off the part of Corunna, and carried
her into Cadiz. The prize was estimated worth two hundred thousand pounds, and immediate application
was made by France to the court of Spain for restitution, while the proprietors of the Anti-gallican
were squandering in mirth, festivity, and riot, the imaginary wealth so easily and unexpectedly
acquired. Such were the remonstrances made to his catholic majesty with respect to the illegality
of the prize, which the French East India company asserted was taken within shot of a neutral
port, that the Penthievre was first violently wrested out of the hands of the captors, then
detained as a deposit, with sealed hatches, and a Spanish guard on board, till the claims of
both parties could be examined, and at last adjudged to be an illegal capture, and consequently
restored to the French, to the great disappointment of the owners of the privateer. Besides
the success which attended a great number of other privateers, the lords of the admiralty published
a list of above thirty ships of war and privateers taken from the enemy in the space of four
mouths, by the English sloops and ships of war, exclusive of the duke de Aquitaine Indiaman,
now fitted out as a ship of war, taken by the Eagle and Medway; the Pondicherry Indiaman, valued
at one hundred and sixty thousand pounds, taken by the Doverman of war; and above six privateers
brought into port by the diligent and brave captain Lockhart, for which he was honoured with
a variety of presents of plate by several corporations, in testimony of their esteem and regard.
This run of good fortune was not, however, without some retribution on the side of the enemy,
who, out of twenty-one ships homeward bound from Carolina, made prize of nineteen, whence the
merchants sustained considerable damage, and a great quantity of valuable commodities, indigo
in particular, was lost to this country.

RIOTS OCCASIONED BY THE HIGH PRICE OF CORN.

Notwithstanding the large imports of grain from different parts of Europe and America, the
artifice of engrossers still kept up the price of corn. So incensed were the populace at the
iniquitous combinations entered into to frustrate the endeavours of the legislature, and to
oppress the poor, that they rose in a tumultuous manner in several counties, sometimes to the
number of five or six thousand, and seized upon the grain brought to market. Nor was it indeed
to be wondered at, considering the distress to which many persons were reduced. The difficulty
of obtaining the necessaries of life, raised the price of labour at the most unseasonable time,
when all manufacturers were overstocked for want of a proper market, which obliged them to
dismiss above half the hands before employed. Hence arose the most pitiable condition of several
thousands of useful industrious subjects; a calamity attended only with one advantage to the
public, namely, the facility with which recruits were raised for his majesty's service. At
last the plentiful crops with which it pleased Providence to bless these kingdoms, the prodigious
quantities of corn imported from foreign countries, and the wise measures of the legislature,
broke all the villanous schemes set on foot by the forestallers and engrossers, and reduced
the price of corn to the usual standard. The public joy on this occasion was greatly augmented
by the safe arrival of the fleet from the Leeward islands, consisting of ninety-two sail, and
of the Straits fleet, estimated worth three millions sterling, whereby the silk manufacturers
in particular were again employed, and their distresses relieved. About the same time the India
company was highly elated with the joyful account of the safe arrival and spirited conduct
of three of their captains, attacked in their passage homewards by two French men of war, one
of sixty-four, the other of twenty-six guns. After a warm engagement, which continued for three
hours, they obliged the French ships to sheer of, with scarce any loss on their own side. When
the engagement began, the captains had promised a reward of a thousand pounds to the crews,
by way of incitement to their valour; and the company doubled the sum, in recompence of their
fidelity and courage. His majesty having taken into consideration the incredible damage sustained
by the commerce of these kingdoms, for want of proper harbours and forts on the western coast
to receive and protect merchantmen, was graciously pleased to order, that a temporary security
should be provided for the shipping which might touch at Milford-haven, until the fortifications
voted in parliament could be erected. How far his majesty's directions were complied with,
the number of merchant ships taken by the enemy's privateers upon that coast sufficiently indicated.

OPERATIONS IN AMERICA.

Whatever reasons the government had to expect the Campaign should be vigorously pushed in America,
almost every circumstance turned out contrary to expectation. Not all the endeavours of the
earl of Loudon to quiet the dissensions among the different provinces, and to establish unanimity
and harmony, could prevail. Circumstances required that he should act the part of a mediator,
in order to raise the necessary supplies for prosecuting the war, without which it was impossible
he could appear in the character of a general. The enemy, in the meantime, were pursuing the
blow given at Oswego, and taking advantage of the distraction that appeared in the British
councils. By their successes in the preceding campaign, they remained masters of all the lakes.
Hence they were furnished with the means of practising on the Indians, in all the different
districts, and obliging them, by rewards, promises, and menaces, to act in their favour. Every
accession to their strength, was a real diminution of that of the British commander; but then
the ignorance or pusillanimity of some of the inferior officers in our back settlements was,
in effect, more beneficial to the enemy than all the vigilance and activity of Montcalm. In
consequence of the shameful loss of Oswego, they voluntarily abandoned to the mercy of the
French general the whole country of the Five Nations, the only body of Indians who had inviolably
performed their engagements, or indeed who had preserved any sincere regard for the British
government. The communication with these faithful allies was now cut off, by the imprudent
demolition of the forts we possessed at the great Carrying-place. A strong fort indeed was
built at Winchester, and called fort Loudon, after the commander-in-chief, and four hundred
Cherokee Indians joined the English forces at fort Cumberland; but this reinforcement by no
means counterbalanced the losses sustained in consequence of our having imprudently stopped
up Wood-creek, and filled it with logs. Every person the least acquainted with the country,
readily perceived the weakness of these measures, by which our whole frontier was left open
and exposed to the irruptions of the savages in the French interest, who would not fail to
profit by our blunders, too notorious to escape them. By the removal of these barriers, a path
was opened to our fine settlements on those grounds called the German Flats, and along the
Mohawk's river, which the enemy destroyed with fire and sword before the end of the campaign.

LORD LOUDON'S CONDUCT IN AMERICA.

In the meantime, lord Loudon was taking the most effectual steps to unite the provinces, and
raise a force sufficient to strike some decisive blow. The attack on Crown-Point, which had
been so long meditated, was laid aside as of less importance than the intended expedition to
Louisbourg, now substituted in its place, and undoubtedly a more considerable object in itself.
Admiral Holbourn arrived at Halifax, with the squadron and transports under his command, on
the ninth day of July; and it was his lordship's intention to repair thither with all possible
diligence, in order to take upon him the command of the expedition; but a variety of accidents
interposed. It was with the utmost difficulty he at length assembled a body of six thousand
men, with which he instantly began his march to join the troops lately arrived from England.
When the junction was effected, the whole forces amounted to twelve thousand men; an army that
raised great expectations. Immediately some small vessels were sent out to examine and reconnoitre
the condition of the enemy, and the intermediate time was employed in embarking the troops
as soon as the transports arrived. The return of the scouts totally altered the face of affairs:
they brought the unwelcome news, that M. de Bois de la Mothe, who sailed in the month of May
from Brest, with a large fleet of ships of war and transports, was now safe at anchor in the
harbour of Louisbourg. Their intelligence AAras supported by the testimony of several deserters;
yet still it wanted confirmation, and many persons believed their account of the enemy's strength
greatly magnified. Such advices, however, could not but occasion extraordinary fluctuations
in the councils of war at Halifax. Some were for setting aside all thoughts of the expedition
for that season; while others, more warm in their dispositions, and sanguine in their expectations,
were for prosecuting it with vigour, in spite of all dangers and difficulties. Their disputes
were carried on with great vehemence, when a packet bound from Louisbourg for France, was taken
by one of the English ships stationed at Newfoundland. She had letters on board, which put
the enemy's superiority beyond all doubt, at least by sea. It clearly appeared, there were
at that time in Louisbourg six thousand regular troops, three thousand natives, and one thousand
three hundred Indians, with seventeen ships of the line and three frigates moored in the harbour;
that the place was well supplied with ammunition, provisions, and every kind of military stores;
and that the enemy wished for nothing more than an attack, which it was probable would terminate
to the disgrace of the assailants, and ruin of the British affairs in America. The commanders
at Halifax were fully apprized of the consequences of an unsuccessful attempt; it was, therefore,
almost unanimously resolved to postpone the expedition to some more convenient opportunity,
especially as the season was now far advanced, which alone would be sufficient to frustrate
their endeavours, and render the enterprise abortive. This resolution seems, indeed, to have
been the most eligible in their circumstances, whatever construction might afterwards be given,
with intention to prejudice the public against the commander-in-chief.

FORT WILLIAM-HENRY TAKEN by the FRENCH.

Lord Loudon's departure from New-York, with all the forces he was able to collect, afforded
the marquis de Montcalm the fairest occasion of improving the successes of the former campaign.
That general had, in the very commencement of the season, made three different attacks on fort
William-Henry, in all of which he was repulsed by the vigour and resolution of the garrison.
But his disappointment here was balanced by an advantage gained by a party of regulars and
Indians at Ticonderoga. Colonel John Parker, with a detachment of near four hundred men, went
by water, in whale and bay boats, to attack the enemy's advanced guard at that place. Landing
at night on an island, he sent before dawn three boats to the main land, which the enemy waylaid
and took. Having procured the necessary intelligence from the prisoners of the colonel's designs,
they contrived their measures, placed three hundred men in ambush behind the point where he
proposed landing, and sent three batteaux to the place of rendezvous. Colonel Parker mistaking
these for his own boats, eagerly put to shore, was surrounded by the enemy, reinforced with
four hundred men, and attacked with such impetuosity, that, of the whole detachment, only two
officers and seventy private men escaped. Flushed with this advantage, animated by the absence
of the British commander-in-chief, then at Halifax, and fired with a desire to revenge the
disgrace he had lately sustained before fort Henry, Montcalm drew together all his forces,
with intention to lay siege to that place. When the marquis de Montcalm had assembled all the
forces at Crown-Point, Ticonderoga, and the adjacent posts, together with a considerable body
of Canadians and Indians, amounting in the whole to near ten thousand men, he marched directly
to the fort, made his approaches, and began to batter it with a numerous train of artillery.
On the very day he invested the place he sent a letter to colonel Monro the governor, telling
him, he thought himself obliged, in humanity, to desire he would surrender the fort, and not
provoke the great number of savages in the French army by a vain resistance. "A detachment
of your garrison has lately," say she, "experienced their cruelty; I have it yet in my power
to restrain them, and oblige them to observe a capitulation, as none of them hitherto are killed.
Your persisting in the defence of your fort can only retard its fate a few days, and must of
necessity expose an unfortunate garrison, who can possibly receive no relief, considering the
precautions taken to prevent it. I demand a decisive answer, for which purpose I have sent
the sieur Funtbrane, one of my aids-de-camp. You may credit what he will inform you of, from
Montcalm." General Webb beheld his preparations with an indifference and security bordering
on infatuation. It is credibly reported, that he had private-intelligence of all the French
general's designs and motions; yet, either despising his strength, or discrediting the information,
he neglected collecting the militia in time; which, in conjunction with his own forces, would
probably have obliged Montcalm to relinquish the attempt, or at least have rendered his success
very doubtful and hazardous. The enemy meeting with no disturbance from the quarter they most
dreaded, prosecuted the siege with vigour, and were warmly received by the garrison, who fired
with great spirit till they had burst almost all their cannon, and expended their ammunition.
Neither Montcalm's promises or threats could prevail upon them to surrender, while they were
in a condition to defend themselves, or could reasonably expect assistance from general Webb.
They even persisted to hold out after prudence dictated they ought to surrender. Colonel Monro
was sensible of the importance of his charge, and imagined that general Webb, though slow in
his motions, would surely make some vigorous efforts either to raise the siege, or force a
supply of ammunition, provisions, and other necessaries, into the garrison. At length necessity
obliged him, after sustaining a siege from the third to the ninth day of August, to hang out
a flag of truce, which was immediately answered by the French commander. Hostages were exchanged,
and articles of capitulation signed by both parties. It was stipulated, that the garrison of
fort William-Henry, and the troops in the intrenched camp, should march out with their arms,
the baggage of the officers and soldiers, and all the usual necessaries of war, escorted by
a detachment of French troops, and interpreters attached to the savages; that the gate of the
fort should be delivered to the troops of the most christain king, immediately after signing
the capitulation; and the retrenched camp, on the departure of the British forces; that the
artillery, warlike stores, provisions, and in general every thing, except the effects of soldiers
and officers, should, upon honour, be delivered to the French troops; for which purpose it
was agreed there should be delivered, with the capitulation, an exact inventory of the stores
and other particulars specified; that the garrison of the fort, and the troops in the retrenchment
and dependencies, should not serve for the space of eighteen months, from the date of the capitulation,
against his most christian majesty, or his allies; that with the capitulation there should
be delivered an exact state of the troops, specifying the names of the officers, engineers,
artillery-men, commissaries, and all employed; that the officers and soldiers, Canadians, women,
and savages, made prisoners by land since the commencement of the war in North America, should
be delivered in the space of three months at Carillon; in return for whom an equal number of
the garrison of fort William-Henry should be capacitated to serve agreeably to the return given
by the English officer, and the receipt of the French commanding officers, of the prisoners
so delivered: that an officer should remain as an hostage, till the safe return of the escort
sent with the troops of his Britannic majesty; that the sick and wounded, not in a condition
to be transported to fort Edward, should remain under the protection of the marquis de Montcalm;
who engaged to use them with tenderness and humanity, and to return them as soon as recovered:
that provisions for two days should be issued out for the British troops: that in testimony
of his esteem and respect for colonel Monro and his garrison, on account of their gallant defence,
the marquis do Montcalm should return one cannon, a six-pounder. Whether the marquis de Montcalm
was really assiduous to have these articles punctually executed we cannot pretend to determine;
but certain it is, they were perfidiously broke in almost every instance. The savages in the
French interest either paid no regard to the capitulation, or were permitted, from views of
policy, to act the most treacherous, inhuman, and insidiuous part. Some British soldiers, with
their wives and children, are said to have been savagely murdered by those brutal Indians,
whose ferocity the French commander could not effectually restrain.

NAVAL TRANSACTIONS IN AMERICA.

As to the naval transactions in this country, though less infamous, they were not less unfortunate.
Immediately on lord Loudon's departure from Halifax, admiral Holbourn, now freed from the care
of the transports, set sail for Louisbourg, with fifteen ships of the line, one ship of fifty
guns, three small frigates, and a fire-ship. What the object of this cruise might have been
can only be conjectured. Some imagine curiosity was the admiral's sole motive, and the desire
of informing himself with certainty of the enemy's strength, while others persuade themselves
that he was in hopes of drawing M. de la Mothe to an engagement, notwithstanding his superiority
in number of ships and weight of metal. Be this as it may, the British squadron appeared off
Louisbourg on the twentieth day of August, and approaching within two miles of the batteries,
saw the French admiral make the signal to unmoor. Mr. Holbourn was greatly inferior in strength,
and it is obvious that his design was not to fight the enemy, as he immediately made the best
of his way to Halifax. About the middle of September, being reinforced with four ships of the
line, he again proceeded to Louisbourg, probably with intention, if possible, to draw the enemy
to an engagement; but he found de la Mothe too prudent to hazard an unnecessary battle, the
loss of which would have greatly exposed all the French colonies. Here the English squadron
continued cruising until the twenty-fifth, when they were overtaken by a terrible storm from
the southward. When the hurricane began, the fleet were about forty leagues distant from Louisbourg;
but were driven in twelve hours within two miles of the rocks and breakers on that coast, when
the wind providentially shifted. The ship Tilbury was wrecked upon the rocks, and half her
crew drowned. Eleven ships were dismasted, others threw their guns overboard; and all returned
in a very shattered condition to England, at a very unfavourable season of the year. In this
manner ended the expedition to Louisbourg, more unfortunate to the nation than the preceding
designs upon Rochefort; less disgraceful to the commanders, but equally the occasion of ridicule
and triumph to our enemies. Indeed, the unhappy consequences of the political disputes at home,
the instability of the administration, and the frequent revolutions in our councils, were strongly
manifested by that langour infused into all our military operations, and general unsteadiness
in our pursuits. Faction, in the mother-country, produced divisions and misconduct in the colonies.
No ambition to signalize themselves appeared among the officers, from the uncertainty whether
their services were to be rewarded or condemned. Their attachment to particular persons weakened
the love they ought to have entertained for their country in general, and destroyed that spirit
of enterprise, that firmness and resolution which constitutes the commander, and without which
the best capacity, joined to the most uncorruptible integrity, can effect nothing.

The French king not only exerted himself against the English in America, but even extended
his operations to their settlements in Africa, where he sent one of his naval commanders with
a small squadron, to reduce. This gentleman, whose name was Kersin, had scoured the coast of
Guinea, and made prize of several English trading ships; but his chief aim was to reduce the
castle at Cape-coast, of which, had he gained possession, the other subordinate forts would
have submitted without opposition. When Mr. Bell, the governor of this castle, received intelligence
that M. de Kersin was a few leagues to windward, and certainly intended to attack Cape-coast,
his whole garrison did not exceed thirty white men, exclusive of a few mulatto soldiers: his
stock of ammunition was reduced to half a barrel of gunpowder; and his fortifications were
so crazy and inconsiderable, that, in the opinion of the best engineers, they could not have
sustained for twenty minutes the fire of one great ship, had it been properly directed and
maintained. In these circumstances, few people would have dreamed of making any preparation
for defence; but Mr. Bell entertained other sentiments, and acquitted himself with equal courage
and discretion. He forthwith procured a supply of gunpowder, and a reinforcement of about fifty
men, from certain trading vessels that happened to be upon that part of the coast. He mounted
some spare cannon upon an occasional battery, and assembling a body of twelve hundred negroes,
well armed, under the command of their chief, on whose attachment he could depend, and ordered
them to take post at the place where he apprehended the enemy would attempt a landing. These
precautions were hardly taken, when the French squadron, consisting of two ships of the line
and a large frigate, appeared, and in a little time their attack began; but they met with such
a warm reception, that in less than two hours they desisted, leaving the castle very little
damaged, and immediately made sail for the West Indies, very much to the disappointment and
mortification of the Dutch officers belonging to the fort of Elmina, in the same neighbourhood,
who made no scruple of expressing their wishes publicly in favour of the French commodore,
and at a distance viewed the engagement with the most partial eagerness and impatience. M.
de Kersin was generally blamed for his want of conduct and resolution in this attempt; but
he is said to have been deceived in his opinion of the real state of Capecoast castle, by the
vigorous and resolute exertions of the governor, and was apprehensive of losing a mast in the
engagement; a loss which he could not have repaired on the whole coast of Africa. Had the fort
of Cape-coast been reduced on this occasion, in all probability every petty republic of the
negroes, settled under the protection of the forts on the Gold-coast, would have revolted from
the British interest; for while the French squadron, in their progress along-shore, hovered
in the offing at Annamaboe, an English settlement a few leauges to leeward of Cape-coast, John
Corrantee, the caboceiro, chief magistrate and general of the blacks on that part of the coast,
whose adopted son had a few years before been caressed, and even treated as a prince in England,
taking it for granted that this enterprise of the French would be attended with success, actually
sent some of his dependants, with a present of refreshments for their commodore; the delivery
of which, however, was prevented by Mr. Brew, the English chief of the fort, who shattered
in pieces the canoe before it could be launched, and threatened with his cannon to level the
black town with the dust. The caboceiro, though thus anticipated in his design, resolved to
be among the first who should compliment M. de Kersin on his victory at Cape-coast; and, with
this view, prepared an embassy or deputation to go there by land; but understanding that the
French had failed in their attempt, he shifted his design, without the least hesitation, and
despatched the same embassy to Mr. Bell, whom he congratulated on his victory, assuring him
he had kept his men ready armed, to march at the first summons to his assistance.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

STATE OF AFFAIRS IN THE EAST INDIES.

In the East Indies the scene was changed greatly to the honour and advantage of Great Britain.
There the commanders acted with that harmony, spirit, and unanimity becoming Britons, zealous
for the credit of their king and the interest of their country. We left admiral Watson and
colonel Clive advancing to Calcutta, to revenge the cruel tragedy acted upon their countrymen
the preceding year. On the twenty-eighth of December, the fleet proceeded up the river: next
day colonel Clive landed, and with the assistance of the squadron, in twenty-four hours made
himself master of Busbudgia, a place of great strength, though very ill defended. On the first
of January the admiral, with two ships, appeared before the town of Calcutta, and was received
by a brisk fire from the batteries. This salute was returned so warmly, that the enemy's guns
were soon silenced, and in less than two hours the place and fort were abandoned. Colonel Clive,
on the other side, had invested the town, and made his attack with that vigour and intrepidity
peculiar to himself, which greatly contributed to the sudden reduction of the settlement. As
soon as the fort was surrendered, the brave and active captain Coote, with his majesty's troops,
took possession, and found ninety-one pieces of cannon, four mortars, abundance of ammunition,
stores, and provisions, with every requisite for sustaining an obstinate siege. Thus the English
were re-established in the two strongest fortresses in the Ganges, with the inconsiderable
loss of nine seamen killed, and three soldiers. A few days after, Hughley, a city of great
trade, situated higher up the river, was reduced with as little difficulty, but infinitely
greater prejudice to the nabob, as here his storehouses of salt, and vast granaries for the
support of his army, were burnt and destroyed. Incensed at the almost instantaneous loss of
all his conquests, and demolition of the city of Hughley, the viceroy of Bengal discouraged
all advances to an accommodation which was proposed by the admiral and chiefs of the company,
and assembled an army of twenty thousand horse and fifteen thousand foot, fully resolved to
expel the English out of his dominions, and take ample vengeance for the disgraces he had lately
sustained. He was seen marching by the English camp in his way to Calcutta on the second of
February, where he encamped, about a mile from the town. Colonel Clive immediately made application
to the admiral for a reinforcement; and six hundred men, under the command of captain Warwick,
were accordingly drafted from the different ships, and sent to assist his little army. Clive
drew out his forces, advanced in three columns towards the enemy, and began the attack so vigorously,
that the viceroy retreated, after a feeble resistance, with the loss of a thousand men killed,
wounded, and taken prisoners, five hundred horses, great numbers of draft bullocks, and four
elephants. Though this advantage was less decisive than could be wished, yet it sufficiently
intimidated the nabob into concessions much to the honour and advantage of the company. Admiral
Watson gave him to understand in a letter, that this was no more than a specimen of what the
British arms, when provoked, could perform. The suba desired the negotiation might be renewed,
and in a few days the treaty was concluded. He promised not to disturb the English in any of
those privileges or possessions specified in the firm, and granted by the Mogul; that all merchandise
belonging to the company should pass and repass, in every part of the province of Bengal, free
of duty; that all the English factories seized the preceding year, or since, should be restored,
with the money, goods, and effects appertaining; that all damages sustained by the English
should be repaired, and their losses repaid: that the English should have liberty to fortify
Calcutta in whatever manner they thought proper without interruption: that they should have
the liberty of coining all the gold and bullion they imported, which should pass current in
the province: that he would remain in strict friendship and alliance with the English, use
his utmost endeavours to heal up the late divisions, and restore the former good understanding
between them.

All which several articles were solemnly signed and sealed with the nabob's own hand.

SEDUCTION OF CHANDERNAGORE.

Such were the terms obtained for the company, by the spirited and gallant conduct of the two
English commanders. They had, however, too much discernment to rely on the promises of a barbarian,
who had so prefidiously broken former engagements; but they prudently dissembled their sentiments,
until they had thoroughly reinstated the affairs of the company, and reduced the French power
in this province. In order to adjust the points that required discussion, the select committee
for the company's affairs appointed Mr. Watts, who had been released from his former imprisonment,
as their commissary at the court of the suba, to whom he was personally known, as well as to
his ministers, among whom he had acquired a considerable influence. Nothing less could have
balanced the interest which the French, by their art of intriguing, had raised among the favourites
of the viceroy. While Mr. Watts was employed at Muxadavad in counter-working those intrigues,
and keeping the suba steady to his engagements, the admiral and Mr. Clive resolved to avail
themselves of their armament in attacking the French settlements in Bengal. The chief object
of their designs was the reduction of Chandernagore, situated higher up the river than Calcutta,
of considerable strength, and the chief in importance of any possessed by that nation in the
bay. Colonel Clive being reinforced by three hundred men from Bombay, began his march to Chandernagore,
at the head of seven hundred Europeans and one thousand six hundred Indians, where, on his
first arrival, he took possession of all the out-posts except one redoubt mounted with eight
pieces of cannon, which he left to be silenced by the admiral. On the eighteenth day of March,
the admirals Watson and Pocoke arrived within two miles of the French settlement, with the
Kent, Tiger, and Salisbury men of war, and found their passage obstructed by booms laid across
the river, and several vessels sunk in the channel. These difficulties being removed, they
advanced early on the twenty-fourth, and drew up in a line before the fort, which they battered
with great fury for three hours; while colonel Clive was making his approaches on the land
side, and playing vigorously from the batteries he had raised. Their united efforts soon obliged
the enemy to submission. A flag of truce was waved over the walls, and the place surrendered
by capitulation. The keys were delivered to captain Latham of the Tiger; and in the afternoon
colonel Clive, with the king's troops, took possession. Thus the reduction of a strong fortress,
garrisoned by five hundred Europeans, and one thousand two hundred Indians, defended by one
hundred and twenty-three pieces of cannon, and three mortars, well provided with all kinds
of stores and necessaries, and of very great importance to the enemy's commerce in India, was
accomplished with a loss not exceeding forty men on the side of the conquerors. By the treaty
of capitulation the director; counsellors, and inferior servants of the settlement, were allowed
to depart with their wearing apparel: the Jesuits were permitted to take away their church
ornaments, and the natives to remain in the full exertion of their liberties; but the garrison
were to continue prisoners of war. The goods and money found in the place were considerable;
but the principal advantage arose from the ruin of the head settlement of the enemy on the
Ganges, which could not but interfere with the English commerce in these parts.

COLONEL CLIVE DEFEATS THE SUBA AT PLAISSEY, &c.

Success had hitherto attended all the operations of the British commanders, because they were
concerted with foresight and unanimity; and executed with that vigour and spirit which deservedly
raised them high in the esteem of their country. They reduced the nabob to reasonable terms
of accommodation before they alarmed the French; and now the power of the latter was destroyed,
they entered upon measures to oblige the treacherous viceroy to a strict performance of the
treaty he had so lately signed. However specious his promises were, they found him extremely
dilatory in the execution of several articles of the treaty, which, in effect, was the same
to the English commerce as if none had been concluded. The company's goods were loaded with
high duties, and several other infractions of the peace committed, upon such frivolous pretences,
as evidently demonstrated that he sought to come to an open rupture as soon as his projects
were ripe for execution. In a word, he discovered all along a manifest partiality to the French,
whose emissaries cajoled him with promises that he should be joined by such a body of their
European troops, under M. de Bussy, as would enable him to crush the power of the English,
whom they had taught him to fear and to hate. As recommencing hostilities against so powerful
a prince was in itself dangerous, and if possible to be avoided, the affair was laid before
the council of Culcutta, and canvassed with all the circumspection and caution that a measure
required, on which depended the fate of the whole trade of Bengal. Mr. Watts, from time to
time, sent them intelligence of every transaction in the suba's cabinet; and although that
prince publicly declared he would cause him to be impaled as soon as the English troops should
be put in motion within the kingdom of Bengal, he bravely sacrificed his own safety to the
interest of the company, and exhorted them to proceed with vigour in their military operations.
During these deliberations a most fortunate incident occurred, that soon determined the council
to come to an open rupture. The leading persons in the viceroy's court found themselves oppressed
by his haughtiness and insolence. The same spirit of discontent appeared among the principal
officers of his army; they were well acquainted with his prefidy, saw his preparations for
war, and were sensible that the peace of the country could never be restored, unless either
the English were expelled, or the nabob deposed. In consequence, a plan was concerted for divesting
him of all his power; and the conspiracy was conducted by Jaffier Ali Khan, his prime minister
and chief commander, a nobleman of great influence and authority in the province. The project
was communicated by Ali Khan to Mr. Watts, and so improved by the address of that gentleman,
as in a manner to ensure success. A treaty was actually concluded between this Meer Jaffier
Ali Khan and the English company; and a plan concerted with this nobleman and the other malcontents
for their defection from the viceroy. These previous measures being-taken, colonel Clive was
ordered to take the field with his little army. Admiral Watson undertook the defence of Chandernagore,
and the garrison was detached to reinforce the colonel, together with fifty seamen to be employed
as gunners, and in directing the artillery. Then Mr. Watts, deceiving the suba's spies by whom
he was surrounded, withdrew himself from Muxadavad, and reached the English camp in safety.
On the nineteenth of June a detachment was sent to attack Cutwa fort and town, situated on
that branch of the river forming the island of Cassimbuzzar. This place surrendered at the
first summons; and here the colonel halted with the army for three days, expecting advices
from Ali Khan. Disappointed of the hoped for intelligence, he crossed the river, and marched
to Plaissey, where he encamped. On the twenty-third, at day break, the suba advanced to attack
him, at the head of fifteen thousand horse, and near thirty thousand infantry, with about forty
pieces of heavy cannon, conducted and managed by French gunners, on whose courage and dexterity
he placed great dependence. They began to cannonade the English camp about six in the morning;
but a severe shower falling at noon they withdrew their artillery. Colonel Clive seized this
opportunity to take possession of a tank and two other posts of consequence, which they in
vain endeavored to retake. Then he stormed an angle of their camp, covered with a double breastwork,
together with an eminence which they occupied. At the beginning of this attack, some of their
chiefs being slain, the men were so dispirited, that they soon gave way; but still Meer Jaffier
Ali Khan, who commanded their left wing, forbore declaring himself openly. After a short contest
the enemy were put to flight, the nabob's camp, baggage, and fifty pieces of cannon taken,
and a most complete victory obtained. The colonel, pursuing his advantage, marched to Muxadavad,
the capital of the province, and was there joined by Ali Khan and the malcontents. It was before
concerted that this nobleman should be invested with the dignity of nabob; accordingly, the
colonel proceeded solemnly to depose Surajah Dowlat, and, with the same ceremony, to substitute
Ali Khan in his room, who was publicly acknowledged by the people as suba, or viceroy, of the
provinces of Bengal, Banar, and Orixa. Soon after, the late viceroy was taken, and put to death
by his successor, who readily complied with all the conditions of his elevation. He conferred
on his allies very liberal rewards, and granted the company such extraordinary privileges,
as fully demonstrated how justly he merited their assistance. By this alliance, and the reduction
of Chandernagore, the French were entirely excluded the commerce of Bengal and its dependencies;
the trade of the English company was restored, and increased beyond their most sanguine hopes;
a new ally was acquired, whose interest obliged him to remain firm to his engagements: a vast
sum was paid to the company and the sufferers at Calcutta, to indemnify them for their losses:
the soldiers and seamen were gratified with six hundred thousand pounds, as a reward for the
courage and intrepidity they exerted; and a variety of other advantages gained, which it would
be unnecessary to enumerate. In a word, in the space of fourteen days a great revolution was
effected, and the government of a vast country superior in wealth, fertility, extent, and number
of inhabitants to most European kingdoms, transferred by a handful of troops, conducted by
an officer untutored in the art of war, and a general rather by intuition, than instruction
and experience. But the public joy at these signal successes was considerably diminished by
the death of admiral Watson, and the loss of Vizagapatam, an English settlement on the Coromandel
coast. The admiral fell a victim to the unwholesomeness of the climate, on the sixteenth of
August, universally esteemed and regretted; and the factory and fort at Vizagapatam were surrendered
to the French, a few days after colonel Clive had defeated the nabob.

ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION OF THE KING OF FRANCE.

We now turn our eyes to the continent of Europe, where we see the beginning of the year marked
with a striking instance of the dreadful effects of frantic enthusiasm. France had long enjoyed
a monarch, easy, complying, good-natured, and averse to all that wore the appearance of business
or of war. Contented with the pleasures of indolence, he sought no greatness beyond what he
enjoyed, nor pursued any ambitious aim through the dictates of his own disposition. Of all
men on earth such a prince had the greatest reason to expect an exemption from plots against
his person, and cabals among his subjects; yet was an attempt made upon his life by a man,
who though placed in the lowest sphere of fortune, had resolution to face the greatest dangers,
and enthusiasm sufficient to sustain, without shrinking, all the tortures which the cruelty
of man could invent, or his crimes render necessary. The name of this fanatic was Robert Francis
Damien, born in the suburb of St. Catharine, in the city of Arras. He had lived in the service
of several families, whence he was generally dismissed on account of the impatience, the melancholy,
and sullenness of his disposition. So humble was the station of a person, who was resolved
to step forth from obscurity, and, by one desperate effort, draw upon himself the attention
of all Europe. On the fifth day of January, as the king was stepping into his coach to return
to Trianon, whence he had that day come to Versailles, Damien, mingling among his attendants,
stabbed him with a knife on the right side, between the fourth and fifth ribs. His majesty
applying his hand immediately to his side, cried out, "I am wounded! Seize him; but do not
hurt him." Happily the wound was not dangerous; as the knife taking an oblique direction, missed
the vital parts. As for the assassin, he made no attempts to escape; but suffering himself
quietly to be seized, was conveyed to the guard-room, where, being interrogated if he committed
the horrid action, he boldly answered in the affirmative. A process against him was instantly
commenced at Versailles: many persons, supposed accessaries to the design upon the king's life,
were sent to the Bastile; the assassin himself was put to the torture, and the most excruciating
torments were applied, with intention to extort a confession of the reasons that could induce
him to so execrable an attempt upon his sovereign. Incisions were made into the muscular parts
of his legs, arms, and thighs, into which boiling oil was poured. Every refinement on cruelty,
that human invention could suggest, was practised without effect; nothing could overcome his
obstinacy; and his silence was construed into a presumption, that he must have accomplices
in the plot. To render his punishment more public and conspicuous, he was removed to Paris,
there to undergo a repetition of all his former tortures, with such additional circumstances
as the most fertile and cruel dispositions could devise for increasing his misery and torment.
Nothing, however, material was extorted; for what he one moment confessed, he recanted the
next. It is not within our province, and we consider it as a felicity, to relate all the circumstances
of this cruel and tragical event. Sufficient it is, that, after suffering the most exquisite
torments that human nature could invent, or man support, his judges thought proper to terminate
his misery by a death shocking to imagination, and shameful to humanity. On the twenty-eighth
day of March he was conducted, amidst a vast concourse of the populace, to the Grève, the common
place of execution, stripped naked, and fastened to the scaffold by iron gyves. One of his
hands was then burnt in liquid flaming sulphur; his thighs, legs, and arms, were torn with
red hot pincers; boiling oil, melted lead, resin, and sulphur, were poured into the wounds;
tight ligatures tied round his limbs to prepare him for dismemberment; young and vigorous horses
applied to the draft, and the unhappy criminal pulled, with all their force, to the utmost
extension of his sinews, for the space of an hour; during all which time he preserved his senses
and constancy. At length the physician and surgeon attending declared, it would be impossible
to accomplish the dismemberment, unless the tendons were separated; upon which orders were
given to the executioner to cut the sinews at the joints of the arms and legs. The horses drew
afresh; a thigh and an arm were separated, and, after several pulls, the unfortunate wretch
expired under the extremity of pain. His body and limbs were reduced to ashes under the scaffold;
his father, wife, daughter, and family banished the kingdom for ever; the name of Damien effaced
and obliterated, and the innocent involved in the punishment of the guilty. Thus ended the
procedure against Damien and his family, in a manner not very favourable to the avowed clemency
of Louis, or the acknowledged humanity of the French nation. It appeared from undoubted evidence,
that the attempt on the king's life was the result of insanity, and a disturbed imagination.
Several instances of a disordered mind had before been observed in his conduct, and the detestation
justly due to the enormity of his crime ought now to have been absorbed in the consideration
of his misfortune, the greatest that can befal human nature.

CHANGES IN THE FRENCH MINISTRY.

Another remarkable event in France, in the beginning of this year, was the change in the ministry
of that nation, by the removal of M. de Machault, keeper of the seals, from the post of secretary
of state for the marine; and of M. d'Argenson from that of secretary at war. Their dismission
was sudden and unexpected; nor was any particular reason assigned for this very unexpected
alteration. The French king, to show the queen of Hungary how judiciously she had acted in
forming an alliance with the house of Bourbon, raised two great armies; the first of which,
composed of near eighty thousand men, the flower of the French troops, with a large train of
artillery, was commanded by M. d'Etrées, a general of great reputation; under whom served M.
de Contades, M. Chevert, and the count de Saint Germain, all officers of high character. This
formidable army passed the Rhine early in the spring, and marched by Westphalia, in order to
invade the king of Prussia's dominions, in quality of allies to the empress-queen, and guardians
of the liberties of the empire. But their real view was to invade Hanover, a scheme which they
knew would make a powerful diversion of the British force from the prosecution of the war in
other parts of the world, where the strength of France could not be fully exerted, and where
their most valuable interests were at stake. They flattered themselves, moreover, that the
same blow, by which they hoped to crush the king of Prussia, might likewise force his Britannic
majesty into some concessions with regard to America. The other army of the French, commanded
by the prince de Soubise, was destined to strengthen the imperial army of execution, consisting
of twenty-five thousand men, beside six thousand Bavarians, and four thousand Wirtembergers.
But before these troops, under Soubise, passed the Rhine, they made themselves masters of several
places belonging to the king of Prussia, upon the borders of the low Countries;* whilst a detachment
from d'Etrées's army seized upon the town of Embden, and whatever else belonged to the same
monarch in East Friesland.

     * The king of Prussia had withdrawn his garrison from
     Cleves, not without suspicion of having purposely left this
     door open to the enemy, that their irruption into Germany
     might hasten the resolutions of the British ministry.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

STATE OF THE CONFEDERACY.

At the close of the last campaign, the king of Prussia, having gained a petty advantage over
the Imperialists under the command of mareschal Brown, and incorporated into his own troops
a great part of the Saxon army taken prisoners at Pima, as was observed before, retired into
winter-quarters, until the season should permit him to improve these advantages. His majesty
and mareschal Keith wintered in Saxony, having their cantonments between Pirna and the frontier
along the Elbe; and mareschal Schwerin, returning into Silesia, took up his quarters in the
country of Glatz. In the meantime, the empress-queen, finding the force which she had sent
out against the king of Prussia, was not sufficient to prevent his designs, made the necessary
requisitions to her allies, for the auxiliaries they had engaged to furnish. In consequence
of these requisitions, the czarina, true to her engagements, despatched above an hundred thousand
of her troops, who began their march in the month of November, and proceeded to the borders
of Lithuania, with design particularly to invade Ducal Prussia, whilst a strong fleet was equipped
in the Baltic, to aid the operations of this numerous army. The Austrian army, assembled in
Bohemia, amounted to upwards of fourscore thousand men, commanded by prince Charles of Lorraine
and mareschal Brown. The Swedes had not yet openly declared themselves; but it was well known,
that though their king was allied in blood and inclination to his Prussian majesty, yet the
jealousy which the senate of Sweden entertained of their sovereign, and the hope of recovering
their ancient possessions in Pomerania, by means of the present troubles, together with their
old attachment to France, newly cemented by intrigues and subsidies, would certainly induce
them to join the general confederacy. The duke of Mecklenburgh took the same party, and agreed
to join the Swedish army, when it should be assembled, with six thousand men. Besides all these
preparations against the king of Prussia, he was, in his quality of elector of Brandenburgh,
put under the ban of the empire by the Aulic council; declared deprived of all his rights,
privileges, and prerogatives; his fiefs were escheated into the exchequer of the empire; and
all the circles accordingly ordered to furnish their respective contingencies for putting this
sentence in execution.

In this dangerous situation, thus menaced on all sides, and seemingly on the very brink of
inevitable destruction, the Prussian monarch owed his preservation to his own courage and activity.
The Russians, knowing that the country they were to pass through in their way to Lithuania
would not be able to subsist their prodigious numbers, had taken care to furnish themselves
with provisions for their march, depending upon the resources they expected to find in Lithuania
after their arrival in that country. These provisions were exhausted by the time they reached
the borders of that province, where they found themselves suddenly and unexpectedly destitute
of subsistence, either to return back or to proceed forward. The king of Prussia had, with
great prudence and foresight, secured plenty to himself, and distress and famine to his enemies,
by buying up all the corn and forage of the country which these last were entering. Notwithstanding
these precautions, his Prussian majesty, to guard as much as could be against every possible
event, sent a great number of gunners and matrasses from Pomerania to Memel, with three regiments
of his troops, to reinforce the garrison of that place. He visited all the posts which his
troops possessed in Silesia, and gave the necessary orders for their security. He repaired
to Neiss, where he settled with mareschal Schwerin the general plan of the operations of the
approaching campaign. There it was agreed, that the mareschal's army in Silesia, which consisted
of fifty thousand men, should have in constant view the motions of the royal army, by which
its own were to be regulated, that they might both act in concert, as circumstances should
require. At the same time, other armies were assembled by the king of Prussia in Lusatia and
Voigt-land; twenty thousand men were collected at Zwickaw, on the frontiers of Bohemia, towards
Egra, under the command of prince Maurice of Anhault-Dessau; and sixty thousand chosen troops
began their march towards Great Seidlitz, where their head quarters were settled. In the meanwhile,
the Austrian troops began to form on the frontiers of Saxony, where some of their detachments
appeared, to watch the motions of the Prussians, who still continued to pursue their operations
with great activity and resolution. All possible care was taken by the Prussians at Dresden
to secure a retreat in case of a defeat. As only one regiment of Prussians could be spared
to remain there in garrison, the burghers were disarmed, their arms deposited in the arsenal,
and a detachment was posted at Konigstein, to oblige that fortress to observe a strict neutrality.
All correspondence with the enemy was strictly prohibited; and it having been discovered that
the countess of Ogilvie, one of the queen's maids of honour, had disobeyed his majesty's commands,
she was arrested; but on the queen's intercession afterwards released. The countess of Bruhl,
lady of the Saxon prime minister, was also arrested by his Prussian majesty's order; and on
her making light of her confinement, and resolving to see company, she was ordered to quit
the court, and retire from Saxony. M. Henwin, the French minister, was told that his presence
was unnecessary at Dresden; and on his replying, that his master had commanded him to stay,
he was again desired to depart; on which he thought proper to obey. The count de Wackerbath,
minister of the cabinet, and grand master of the household to the prince royal of Poland, was
arrested, and conducted to Custrin, by the express command of his majesty. The king of Prussia,
having thrown two bridges over the Elbe, early in the spring, ordered the several districts
of the electorate of Saxony to supply him with a great number of waggons, each drawn by four
horses. The circles of Misnia and Leipsic were enjoined to furnish four hundred each, and the
other circles in proportion.

SKIRMISHES BETWEEN THE PRUSSIANS AND AUSTRIANS.

While the king of Prussia was taking these measures in Saxony, two skirmishes happened on the
frontiers of Bohemia, between his troops and the Austrians. On the twentieth of February, a
body of six thousand Austrians surrounded the little town of Hirschfeld, in Upper Lusatia,
garrisoned by a battalion of Prussian foot. The first attack was made at four in the morning,
on two redoubts without the gates, each of which was defended by two field pieces: and though
the Austrians were several times repulsed, they at last made themselves masters of one of the
redoubts, and carried off the two pieces of cannon. In their retreat they were pursued by the
Prussians, who fell upon their rear, killed some, and took many prisoners: this affair cost
the Austrians at least five hundred men. About a fortnight after, the prince of Bevern marched
out of Zittau, with a body of near nine thousand men, in order to destroy the remaining strongholds
possessed by the Austrians on the frontiers. In this expedition he took the Austrian magazine
at Friedland in Bohemia, consisting of nine thousand sacks of meal, and great store of ammunition;
and after making himself master of Reichenberg, he returned to Zittau. The van of his troops,
consisting of an hundred and fifty hussars of the regiment of Putkammer, met with a body of
six hundred Croats, sustained by two hundred Austrian dragoons of Bathiania, at their entering
Bohemia; and immediately fell upon them sword in hand, killed about fifty, took thirty horses,
and made ten dragoons prisoners. The Prussians, it is said, did not lose a single man on this
occasion; and two soldiers only were slightly wounded, the Austrians having made but a slight
resistance.

NEUTRALITY OF THE EMPEROR, AND BEHAVIOUR OF THE DUTCH.

Whatever the conduct of the court of Vienna might have been to the allies of Great Britain,
still, however, proper regard was shown to the subjects of this crown: for an edict was published
at Florence on the thirteenth of February, wherein his imperial majesty, as grand duke of Tuscany,
declared his intention of observing the most scrupulous neutrality in the then situation of
affairs. All the ports in that duchy were accordingly enjoined to pay a strict regard to this
declaration, in all cases relating to the French or English ships in the Mediterranean. The
good effects of this injunction soon appeared; for two prizes taken by the English having put
into Porto Ferraro, the captains of two French privateers addressed themselves to the governor,
alleging, that they were captures of a pirate, and requesting that they might be obliged to
put to sea; but the governor prudently replied, that as they came in under English colours
he would protect them, and forbade the privateers, at their peril, to commit any violence.
They, however, little regarding the governor's orders, prepared for sailing, and sent their
boats to cut out one of the prizes, The captain, firing at their boats, killed one of their
men, which, alarming the sentinels, notice was sent to the governor; and he, in consequence,
ordered the two privateers immediately to depart.--The conduct of the Dutch was rather cautious
than spirited. Whilst his Prussian majesty was employed on the side of Bohemia and Saxony,
the French auxiliaries began their march to harass his defenceless territories in the neighbourhood
of the Low Countries. A free passage was demanded of the states-general through Namur and Maastricht,
for the provisions, ammunition, and artillery belonging to this new army; and though the English
ambassador remonstrated against their compliance, and represented it as a breach of the neutrality
their high mightinesses declared they would observe, yet, after some hesitation, the demand
was granted; and their inability to prevent the passage of the French troops, should it be
attempted by force, pleaded in excuse of their conduct.

Scarce had the French army, commanded by the prince de Soubise, set foot in the territories
of Juliers and Cologn, when they found themselves in possession of the duchy of Cloves and
the country of Marck, where all things were left open to them, the Prussians, who evacuated
their posts, taking their route along the river Lippe, in order to join some regiments from
Magdeburgh, who were sent to facilitate their retreat. The distressed inhabitants, thus exposed
to the calamities of war from an unprovoked enemy, were instantly ordered to furnish contributions,
forage, and provisions for the use of their invaders; and what was still more terrifying to
them, the partisan Fischer, whose cruelties the last war they still remembered with horror,
was again let loose upon them by the inhumanity of the empress-queen. Wesel was immediately
occupied by the French; Emmerick and Maseyk soon shared the same fate; and the city of Gueldres
was besieged, the Prussians seeming resolved to defend this last place; to which end they opened
the sluices, and laid the country under water. Those who retreated, filing off to the north-west
of Paderborn, entered the county of Ritberg, the property of count Caunitz Ritberg, great chancellor
to the empress-queen. After taking his castle, in which they found thirty pieces of cannon,
they raised contributions in the district to the amount of forty thousand crowns. As the Prussians
retired, the French took possession of the country they quitted in the name of the empress-queen,
whose commissary attended them for that purpose. The general rendezvous of these troops, under
prince Soubise, was appointed at Neuss, in the electorate of Cologn, where a large body of
French was assembled by the first of April. The Austrians, in their turn, were not idle. Mareschal
Brown visited the fortifications of Brinn and Koninsgratz; reviewed the army of the late prince
Picolomini, now under the command of general Serbelloni; and put his own army in march for
Kostlitz on the Elbe, where he proposed to establish his headquarters.

DECLARATION OF THE CZARINA AGAINST THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

During the recess of the armies, while the rigours of winter forced them to suspend their hostile
operations, and the greatest preparations were making to open the campaign with all possible
vigour, count Bestucheff, great chancellor of Russia, wrote a circular letter to the primate,
senators, and ministers of the republic of Poland, setting forth, "That the empress of Russia
was extremely affected with the king of Poland's distress, which she thought could not but
excite the compassion of all other powers, but more especially of his allies: that the fatal
consequences which might result from the rash step by the king of Prussia, not only with respect
to the tranquillity of Europe in general, but of each power in particular, and more especially
of the neighbouring countries, were so evident, that the interest and safety of the several
princes rendered it absolutely necessary they should make it a common cause; not only to obtain
proper satisfaction for those courts whose dominions had been so unjustly attacked, but likewise
to prescribe such bounds to the king of Prussia as might secure them from any future apprehensions
from so enterprising and restless a neighbour: that with this view the empress was determined
to assist the king of Poland with a considerable body of troops, which were actually upon their
march,* under the command of general Apraxin; and that, as there would be an absolute necessity
for their marching through part of the territories of Poland, her imperial majesty hoped the
republic would not fail to facilitate their march as much as possible."

     * This letter was written in December, and the Russians, as
     we observed before, began their march in November.

She further recommended to the republic, to take some salutary measures for frustrating the
designs of the king of Prussia, and restoring harmony among themselves, as the most conducive
measure to these good purposes. In this, however, the Poles were so far from following her
advice, that, though sure of being sacrificed in this contest, which side soever prevailed,
they divided into parties with no less zeal than if they had as much to hope from the prevalence
of one side, as to fear from that of the other. Some of the Palatines were for denying a passage
to the Russians, and others were for affording them the utmost assistance in their power. With
this cause of contention, others of a more private nature fatally concurred, by means of a
misunderstanding between the prince Czartorinski and count Muisnec. Almost every inhabitant
of Warsaw was involved in the quarrel; and the violence of these factions was so great that
scarce a night passed without bloodshed, many dead bodies, chiefly Saxons, being found in the
streets every morning.

In the meantime, Great Britain, unsettled in her ministry and councils at home, unsuccessful
in her attempts abroad, judging peace, if it could be obtained on just and honourable terms,
more eligible than a continental war, proposed several expedients to the empress-queen for
restoring the tranquillity of Germany; but her answer was, "That whenever she perceived that
the expedients proposed would indemnify her for the extraordinary expenses she had incurred
in her own defence, repair the heavy losses sustained by her ally the king of Poland, and afford
a proper security for their future safety, she would be ready to give the same proofs she had
always given of her desire to restore peace; but it could not be expected she should listen
to expedients of which the king of Prussia was to reap the whole ad vantage, after having begun
the war, and wasted the dominions of a prince, who relied for his security upon the faith of
treaties, and the appearance of harmony between them." Upon the receipt of this answer, the
court of London made several proposals to the czarina, to interpose as mediatrix between the
courts of Vienna and Berlin, but they were rejected with marks of displeasure and resentment.
When sir Charles Hanbury Williams, the British ambassador, continued to urge his solicitations
very strongly, and even with some hints of menaces, an answer was delivered to him, by order
of the empress, purporting, "That her imperial majesty was astonished at his demand, after
he had already been made acquainted with the measures she had taken to effect a reconciliation
between the courts of Vienna and Berlin. He might easily conceive, as matters were then situated,
that the earnestness with which he now urged the same propositions, must necessarily surprise
her imperial majesty, as it showed but little regard to her former declaration. The empress,
therefore, commanded his excellency to be told, that as her intentions contained in her first
answer remained absolutely invariable, no ulterior propositions for a mediation would be listened
to; and that as for the menaces made use of by his excellency, and particularly that the king
of Prussia himself would soon attack the Russian army, such threats served only to weaken the
ambassador's proposals; to confirm still more, were it possible, the empress in her resolutions;
to justify them to the whole world, and to render the king of Prussia more blameable."

KING OF PRUSSIA ENTERS BOHEMIA.

The season now drawing on in which the troops of the contending powers would be able to take
the field, and the alarming progress of the Russians being happily stopped, his Prussian majesty,
whose maxim it has always been to keep the seat of war as far as possible from his own dominions,
resolved to carry it into Bohemia, and there to attack the Austrians on all sides. To this
end he ordered his armies in Saxony, Misnia, Lusatia, and Silesia, to enter Bohemia in four
different and op-opposite places, nearly at the same time. The first of these he commanded
in person, assisted by mareschal Keith; the second was led by prince Maurice of Anhault-Dessau,
the third by prince Ferdinand of Brunswick-Bevern, and the fourth by mareschal Schwerin. In
consequence of this plan, mareschal Schwerin's army entered Bohemia on the eighteenth of April,
in five columns, at as many different places. The design was so well concerted, that the Austrians
had not the least suspicion of their approach until they were past the frontiers, and then
they filled the dangerous defile of Guelder-Oesle with pandours, to dispute that passage; but
they were no sooner discovered than two battalions of Prussian grenadiers attacked them with
their bayonets fixed, and routed them. The prince of Anhault passed the frontiers from Misnia,
and penetrated into Bohemia on the twenty-first of April, without any resistance. The prince
of Bevern, on the twentieth of the same month, having marched at the head of a body of the
army, which was in Lusatia, from the quarters of cantonment near Zittau, possessed himself
immediately of the first post on the frontier of Bohemia, at Krouttau and Grasenstein, without
the loss of a single man; drove away the enemy the same day from Kratzen, and proceeded to
Machendorf, near Reichenberg. The same morning Putkammer's hussars, who formed part of a corps,
commanded by a colonel and major, routed some hundreds of the enemy's cuirassiers, posted before
Kolin, under the conduct of prince Lichenstein, took three officers and upwards of sixty horse
prisoners, and so dispersed the rest, that they were scarcely able to rally near Kratzen. Night
coming on obliged the troops to remain in the open air till the next morning, when, at break
of day, the Prussians marched in two columns by Habendorf, towards the enemy's army, amounting
to twenty-eight thousand men, commanded by count Konigsegg, and posted near Roichenberg. As
soon as the troops were formed, they advanced towards the enemy's cavalry, drawn up in three
lines of about thirty squadrons. The two wings were sustained by the infantry, which was posted
among felled trees and intrenchments. The Prussians immediately cannonaded the enemy's cavalry,
who received it with resolution, having on their right hand a village, and on their left a
wood whore they had intrenched themselves. But the prince of Bevern having caused fifteen squadrons
of dragoons of the second line to advance, and the wood on his right to be attacked at the
same time by the battalions of grenadiers of Kahlden and of Moellendorf, and by the regiment
of the prince of Prussia, his dragoons, who, by clearing the ground and possessing the intrenchment,
had their flanks covered, entirely routed the enemy's cavalry. In the meantime colonel Putkammer
and major Schenfield, with their hussars, though flanked by the enemy's artillery, gave the
Austrian horse grenadiers a very warm reception, whilst general Lestewitz, with the left wing
of the Prussians, attacked the redoubts that covered Reichenberg. Though there were many defiles
and rising grounds to pass, all occupied by the Austrians, yet the regiment of Darmstadt forced
the redoubt, and put to flight and pursued the enemy, after some discharge of their artillery
and small arms, from one eminence to another, for the distance of a mile, when they left off
the pursuit. The action began at half an hour after six, and continued till eleven. About one
thousand of the Austrians were killed and wounded; among the former were general Porporati
and count Hohenfelds, and among the latter prince Lichtenstein and count Mansfeld. Twenty of
their officers, and four hundred soldiers, were taken prisoners, and they also lost three standards.
On the side of the Prussians seven subalterns and about an hundred men were killed, and sixteen
officers and an hundred and fifty men wounded. After this battle mareschal Schwerin joined
the prince of Bevern, made himself master of the greatest part of the circle of Buntzlau, and
took a considerable magazine from the Austrians, whom he dislodged. The prince Anhault-Dessau,
with his corps, drew near the king of Prussia's army; then the latter advanced as far as Budin,
from whence the Austrians who had an advantageous camp there, retired to Westwarn, half way
between Budin and Prague; and his Prussian majesty having passed the Egra, his army, and that
of mareschal Schwerin, were so situated, as to be able to act jointly.

These advantages were but a prelude to a much more decisive victory, which the king himself
gained a few days after. Preparing to enter Bohemia, at a distance from any of the corps commanded
by his generals, he made a movement as if he had intended to march towards Egra. The enemy,
deceived by this feint, and imagining he wras going to execute some design, distinct from the
object of the other armies, detached a body of twenty thousand men to observe his motions;
then he made a sudden and masterly movement to the left, by which he cut off all communication
between that detachment and the main army of the Austrians, which, having been reinforced by
the army of Moravia, by the remains of the corps lately defeated by the prince of Bevern, and
by several regiments of the garrison of Prague, amounted to near a hundred thousand men. They
were strongly intrenched on the banks of the Moldaw, to the north of Prague, in a camp so fortified
by every advantage of nature, and every contrivance of art, as to be deemed almost impregnable.
The left wing of the Austrians, thus situated, was guarded by the mountains of Ziscka, and
the right extended as far as Herboholi; prince Charles of Lorraine, and mareschal Brown, who
commanded them, seemed determined to maintain this advantageous post; but the king of Prussia
overlooked all difficulties. Having thrown several bridges over the Moldaw on the fifth of
May, he passed that river in the morning of the sixth, with thirty thousand men, leaving the
rest of the army under the command of the prince of Anhault-Dessau; and being immediately joined
by the troops under mareschal Schwerin and the prince of Bevern, resolved to attack the enemy
on the same day. In consequence of this resolution, his army filed off on the left by Potschernitz;
and at the same time count Brown wheeled to the right, to avoid being flanked. The Prussians
continued their march to Richwitz, traversing several defiles and morasses, which for a little
time separated the infantry from the rest of the army. The foot began the attack too precipitately,
and were at first repulsed, but they soon recovered themselves. While the king of Prussia took
the enemy in flank, mareschal Schwerin advanced to a marshy ground, which suddenly stopping
his army, threatened to disconcert the whole plan of operation. In this emergency, he immediately
dismounted, and taking the standard of the regiment in his hand, boldly entered the morass,
crying out, "Let all brave Prussians follow me." Inspired by the example of this great commander,
now eighty-two years of age, all the troops pressed forward, and though he was unfortunately
killed by the first fire, their ardour abated not till they had totally defeated the enemy.
Thus fell mareschal Schwerin, loaded with years and glory, an officer whose superior talents
in the military art had been displayed in a long course of faithful service. In the meantime,
the Prussian infantry, which had been separated in the march, forming themselves afresh, renewed
the attack on the enemy's right, and entirely broke it, while their cavalry, after three charges,
obliged that of the Austrians to retire in great confusion, the centre being at the same time
totally routed. The left wing of the Prussians then marched immediately towards Michely, and
being there joined by the horse, renewed their attack, while the enemy were retreating hastily
towards Saszawar. Meanwhile the troops on the right of the Prussian army attacked the remains
of the left wing of the Aus-trians, and made themselves masters of three batteries. But the
behaviour of the infantry in the last attack was so successful, as to leave little room for
this part of the cavalry to act. Prince Henry of Prussia, and the prince of Bevern, signalized
themselves on this occasion in storming two batteries; prince Ferdinand of Brunswick took the
left wing of the Austrians in flank, while the king with his left, and a body of cavalry, secured
the passage of the Moldaw. In short, after a very long and obstinate engagement, and many signal
examples of valour on both sides, the Austrians were forced to abandon the field of battle,
leaving behind sixty pieces of cannon, all their tents, baggage, military chest, and, in a
word, their whole camp. The weight of the battle fell upon the right wing of the Austrians,
the remains of which, to the amount of ten or twelve thousand men, fled towards Beneschau,
where they afterwards assembled under M. Pretlach, general of horse. The infantry retired towards
Prague, and threw themselves into that city with their commanders, prince Charles of Lorraine,
and mareschal Brown; but they were much harassed in their retreat by a detachment of the Prussians
under mareschal Keith. The Prussians took, on this occasion, ten standards, and upwards of
four thousand prisoners, thirty of whom were officers of rank. Their loss amounted to about
two thousand five hundred killed, and about three thousand wounded. Among the former were general
d'Amstel, the prince of Holstein-Beck, the colonels Goltze and Manstein, and lieutenant-colonel
Boke. Among the latter, the generals Wenterfield, De la Mothe, Feuque, Hautcharmoy, Blankensee
and Plettenberg. The number of the killed and wounded on the side of the Austrians was much
greater. Among these last was mareschal Brown, who received a wound, which, from the chagrin
he suffered, rather than from its own nature, proved mortal. The clay after the battle, colonel
Meyer was detached with a battalion of Prussian pandours, and four hundred hussars, to destroy
a very considerable and valuable magazine of the Austrians at Pilsen, and this service lie
performed. He also completed the destruction of several others of less importance; by the loss
of which, however, all possibility of subsistence was cut off from any succours the Austrians
might have expected from the empire.

PRAGUE INVESTED.

The Prussians, following their blow, immediately invested Prague on both sides of the river,
the king commanding on one side, and mareschal Keith on the other. In four days the whole city
was surrounded with lines and intrenchments, by which all communication from without was entirely
cut off: prince Charles of Lorraine and mareschal Brown, the two princes of Saxony, the prince
of Modena, the duke d'Aremberg, count Lascy, and several other persons of great distinction,
were shut up within the walls, together with above twenty thousand of the Austrian army, who
had taken refuge in Prague after their defeat. Every thing continued quiet on both sides, scarce
a cannon-shot being fired by either for some time after this blockade was formed; and in the
meanwhile the Prussians made themselves masters of Cziscaberg, an eminence which commands the
town, where the Austrians had a strong redoubt, continuing likewise to strengthen their works.
Already they had made a sally, and taken some other ineffectual steps to recover this post;
but a more decisive stroke was necessary. Accordingly, a design was formed of attacking the
Prussian army in the night with a body of twelve thousand men, to be sustained by all the grenadiers,
volunteers, pandours, and Hungarian infantry. In case an impression could be made on the king's
lines, it was intended to open a way, sword in hand, through the camp of the besiegers, and
to ease Prague of the multitude of forces locked up useless within the walls, serving only
to consume the provisions of the garrison, and hasten the surrender of the place. Happily a
deserter gave the prince of Prussia intelligence of the enemy's design about eleven o'clock
at night. Proper measures were immediately taken for their reception, and, in less than a quarter
of an hour, the whole army was under arms. This design was conducted with so much silence,
that though the Prussians were warned of it, they could, discover nothing before the enemy
had charged their advanced posts. Their attack was begun on the side of the little town, against
mareschal Keith's camp, and the left wing of the Prussian army encamped on the Moldaw. From
hence it is probable the Austrians proposed not only to destroy the batteries that were raising,
but to attack the bridges of communication which the Prussians threw over the Moldaw, at about
a quarter of a German mile above and below Prague, at Branig and Podbaba. The greatest alarm
began about two o'clock, when the enemy hoped to have come silently and unexpectedly upon the
miners, but they had left work about a quarter of an hour before. At the report of the first
piece which they fired, the piquet of the third battalion of Prussian guards, to the number
of an hundred men, who marched out of the camp to sustain the body which covered the works,
was thrown into some confusion, from the darkness of the night, which prevented their distinguishing
the Austrian troops from their own. Lieutenant Jork, detached with two platoons to reconnoitre
the enemy, attempting to discover their disposition by kindling a fire, captain Rodig, by the
light of this fire, perceived the enemy's situation, immediately formed the design of falling
upon them in flank, and gave orders to his men to fire in platoons, which they performed, mutually
repeating the signal given by their commander. The enemy fled with the greater precipitation,
as they were ignorant of the weakness of the piquet, and as the shouting of the Prussian soldiers
made them mistake it for a numerous body. Many of them deserted, many took shelter in Prague,
and many more were driven into the river and drowned. At the same time this attack began, a
regiment of horse-grenadiers fell upon a redoubt which the Prussians had thrown up, supported
by the Hungarian infantry: they returned three times to the assault, and were as often beat
back by the Prussians, whom they found it impossible to dislodge; though prince Ferdinand of
Brunswick's battalion, which guarded this post, suffered extremely. During this attack the
enemy kept an incessant fire with their musquetry upon the whole front of the Prussians, from
the convent of St. Margaret to the river. At three in the morning the Prussians quitted their
camp to engage the enemy. The battalion of Pannewitz attacked a building called the Red-house,
situated at the bottom of a declivity, before Wellastowitz. The pandours who had taken possession
of this house, fired upon them incessantly from all the doors and windows until they were dislodged;
and the Prussian battalions were obliged to sustain the fire both of cannon and musquetry for
above two hours, when the enemy retired to the city, except the pandours, who again took possession
of the Red-house, which the Prussians were forced to abandon, because the artillery of Prague
kept a continual fire upon it from the moment it was known to be in their hands. The Austrians
left behind them many dead and wounded, besides deserters; and the Prussians, notwithstanding
the loss of several officers and private men, made some prisoners. Prince Ferdinand, the king
of Prussia's youngest brother, had a horse killed under Mm, and was slightly wounded in the face.

The Prussian works being completed, and heavy artillery arrived, four batteries, erected on
the banks of the Moldaw, began to play with great fury. Near three hundred bombs, besides an
infinity of ignited balls, were thrown into the city in the space of twenty-four hours. The
scene was lamentable, houses, men, and horses wrapped in flames and reduced to ashes. The confusion
within, together with the want of proper artillery and ammunition, obliged the Austrians to
cease firing, and furnished his Prussian majesty with all the opportunity he could wish of
pouring destruction upon this unfortunate city. The horrors of war seemed to have extinguished
the principles of humanity. No regard was paid to the distress of the inhabitants; the Austrians
obstinately maintained possession, and the Prussians practised every stratagem, every barbarous
refinement, that constitutes the military art, to oblige them to capitulate. After the conflagration
had lasted three days, and consumed a prodigious number of buildings, the principal inhabitants,
burghers, and clergy, perceiving their city on the point of being reduced to a heap of rubbish,
besought the commander, in a body, to hearken to terms; but he was deaf to the voice of pity,
and, instead of being moved with their supplications, drove out twelve thousand persons, the
least useful in defending the city. These, by order of his Prussian majesty, were again forced
back, which soon produced so great a scarcity of provisions within the walls, that the Austrians
were reduced to the necessity of eating horseflesh, forty horses being daily distributed to
the troops, and the same food sold at four-pence a pound to the inhabitants. However, as there
still remained great abundance of corn, they were far from being brought to the last extremity.
Two vigorous and well-conducted sallies were made, but they proved unsuccessful. The only advantage
resulting from them, was the perpetual alarm in which they kept the Prussian camp, and the
vigilance required to guard against the attacks of a numerous, resolute, and desperate garrison.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

COUNT DAUN COMMANDS THE AUSTRIANS.

Whatever difficulties might have attended the conquest of Prague, certain it is, that the affairs
of the empress-queen were in the most critical and desperate situation. Her grand army dispersed
in parties, and dying for subsistence in small corps; their princes and commanders cooped up
in Prague; that capital in imminent danger of being taken, the flourishing kingdom of Bohemia
ready to fall into the hands of the conqueror; a considerable army on the point of surrendering
prisoners of war; all the queen's hereditary dominions open and exposed, the whole fertile
tract of country from Egra to the Moldaw in actual possession of the Prussians, the distance
to the archduchy of Austria not very considerable, and secured only by the Danube; Vienna under
the utmost apprehensions of a siege, and the imperial family ready to take refuge in Hungary;
the Prussian forces deemed invincible, and the sanguine friends of that monarch already sharing
with him, in imagination, the spoils of the ancient and illustrious house of Austria. Such
was the aspect of affairs, and such the difficulties to be combated, when Leopold, count Daun,
was appointed to the command of the Austrian forces, to stem the torrent of disgrace, and turn
the fortune of the war. This general, tutored by long experience under the best officers of
Europe, and the particular favourite of the great Kevenhuller, was now, for the first time,
raised to act in chief, at the head of an army, on which depended the fate of Austria and the
empire. Born of a noble family, he relied solely upon his own merit, without soliciting court
favour; he aspired after the highest preferment, and succeeded by mere dint of superior worth.
His progress from the station of a subaltern was slow and silent; his promotion to the chief
command was received with universal esteem and applause. Cautious, steady, penetrating, and
sagacious, he was opposed as another Fabius to the modern Hannibal, to check the fire and vigour
of that monarch by prudent foresight and wary circumspection. Arriving at Romischbrod, within
a few miles of Prague, the day after the late defeat, he halted to collect the fugitive corps
and broken remains of the Austrian army, and soon drew together a force so considerable as
to attract the notice of his Prussian majesty, who detached the prince of Bevern, with twenty
battalions, and thirty squadrons, to attack him before numbers should render him formidable.
Daun was too prudent to give battle, with dispirited troops, to an army flushed with victory.
He retired on the first advice that the Prussians were advancing, and took post at Kolin, where
he intrenched himself strongly, opened the way for the daily supply of recruits sent to his
army, and inspired the garrison of Prague with fresh courage, in expectation of being soon
relieved. Here he kept close within his camp, divided the Prussian force, by obliging the king
to employ near half his army in watching his designs, weakened his efforts against Prague,
harassed the enemy by cutting off their convoys, and restored by degrees the languishing and
almost desponding spirits of his troops. Perfectly acquainted with the ardour and discipline
of the Prussian forces, with the enterprising and impetuous disposition of that monarch, and
sensible that his situation would prove irksome and embarrassing to the enemy, he improved
it to the best advantage, seemed to foresee all the consequences, and directed every measure
to produce them. Thus he retarded the enemy's operations, and assiduously avoided precipitating
an action until the Prussian vigour should be exhausted, their strength impaired by losses
and desertion, the first fire and ardour of their genius extinguished by continual fatigue
and incessant alarms, and until the impression made on his own men, by the late defeat, should
in some degree be effaced. The event justified Daun's conduct. His army grew every day more
numerous, while his Prussian majesty began to express the utmost impatience at the length of
the siege. When that monarch first invested Prague, it was on the presumption that the numerous
forces within the walls would, by consuming all the provisions, oblige it to surrender in a
few days; but perceiving that the Austrians had still a considerable quantity of corn, that
count Daun's army was daily increasing, and would soon be powerful enough not only to cope
with the detachment under the prince of Bevern, but in a condition to raise the siege, he determined
to give the count battle with one part of his army, while he kept Prague blocked up with the
other. The Austrians, amounting now to sixty thousand men, were deeply intrenched, and defended
by a numerous train of artillery, placed on redoubts and batteries erected on the most advantageous
posts. Every accessible part of the camp was fortified with lines and heavy pieces of battering
cannon, and the foot of the hills secured by difficult defiles. Yet, strong as this situation
might appear, formidable as the Austrian forces certainly were, his Prussian majesty undertook
to dislodge them with a body of horse and foot not exceeding thirty-two thousand men.

KING OF PRUSSIA DEFEATED AT KOLIN.

On the thirteenth day of June, the king of Prussia quitted the camp before Prague, escorted
by a few battalions and squadrons, with which he joined the prince of Bevern at Milkowitz,
Mareschal Keith, it is said, strenuously opposed this measure, and advised either raising the
siege entirely, and attacking the Austrians with the united forces of Prussia, or postponing
the attack on the camp at Kolin, until his majesty should either gain possession of the city,
or some attempts should be made to oblige him to quit his posts. From either measure an advantage
would have resulted. With his whole army he might probably have defeated count Daun, or at
least have obliged him to retreat. Had he continued within his lines at Prague, the Austrian
general could not have constrained him to raise the siege without losing his own advantageous
situation, and giving battle upon terms nearly equal. But the king, elated with success, impetuous
in his valour, and confident of the superiority of his own troops in point of discipline, thought
all resistance must sink under the weight of his victorious arm, and yield to that courage
which had already surmounted such difficulties, disregarded the mareschal's sage counsel, and
inarched up to the attack undaunted, and even assured of success. By the eighteenth the two
armies were in sight, and his majesty found that count Daun had not only fortified his camp
with all the heavy cannon of Olmutz, but was strongly reinforced with troops from Moravia and
Austria, which had joined him after the king's departure from Prague. He found the Austrians
drawn up in three lines upon the high grounds between Gen-litz, and St. John the Baptist. Difficult
as it was to approach their situation, the Prussian infantry marched up with firmness, while
shot was poured like hail from the enemy's batteries, and began the attack about three in the
afternoon. They drove the Austrians with irresistible intrepidity from two eminences secured
with heavy cannon, and two villages defended by several battalions; but, in attacking the third
eminence, were flanked by the Austrian cavalry, by grape-shot poured from the batteries; and,
after a violent conflict, and prodigious loss of men, thrown into disorder. Animated with the
king's presence, they rallied, and returned with double ardour to the charge, but were a second
time repulsed. Seven times successively did prince Ferdinand renew the attack, performing every
duty of a great general and valiant soldier, though always with the same fortune. The inferiority
of the Prussian infantry, the disadvantages of ground, where the cavalry could not act, the
advantageous situation of the enemy, their numerous artillery, their intrenchments, numbers,
and obstinacy, joined to the skill and conduct of their general, all conspired to defeat the
hopes of the Prussians, to surmount their valour, and oblige them to retreat. The king then
made a last and furious effort, at the head of the cavalry, on the enemy's left wing, but with
as little success as all the former attacks. Every effort was made, and every attempt was productive
only of greater losses and misfortunes. At last, after exposing his person in the most perilous
situations, his Prussian majesty drew off his forces from the field of battle, retiring in
such good order, in sight of the enemy, as prevented a pursuit, or the loss of his artillery
and baggage. Almost all the officers on either side distinguished themselves; and count Daun,
whose conduct emulated that of his Prussian majesty, received two slight wounds, and had a
horse killed under him. The losses of both armies were very considerable; on that of the Prussians,
the killed and wounded amounted to eight thousand; less pernicious, however, to his majesty's
cause than the frequent desertion, and other innumerable ill consequences that ensued.

When the Prussian army arrived at Nimburgh, his majesty, leaving the command with the prince
of Be-vern, took horse, and, escorted by twelve or fourteen hussars, set out for Prague, where
he arrived next morning without halting, after having been the whole preceding day on horseback.
Immediately he gave orders for sending off all his artillery, ammunition, and baggage; these
were executed with so much expedition, that the tents were struck, and the army on their march,
before the garrison were informed of the king's defeat. Thus terminated the battle of Kolin
and siege of Prague, in which the acknowledged errors of his Prussian majesty were, in some
measure, atoned by the candour with which he owned his mistake, both in a letter to the earl
mareschal, [419] [See note 3 I, at the end of this Vol.] and in conversation with several of
his general officers. Most people, indeed, imagined the king highly blameable for checking
the ardour of his troops to stop and lay siege to Prague. They thought he should have pursued
his conquests, over-run Austria, Moravia, and all the hereditary dominions, from which alone
the empress-queen could draw speedy succours. A body of twenty or thirty thousand men would
have blocked up Prague, while the remainder of the Prussian forces might have obliged the imperial
family to retire from Vienna, and effectually prevented count Daun from assembling another
army. It was universally expected he would have bent his march straight to this capital; but
he dreaded leaving the numerous army in Prague behind, and it was of great importance to complete
the conquest of Bohemia. The prince of Prussia marched all night with his corps to Nimburgh,
where he joined the prince of Bevern, and mareschal Keith retreated next day. Count Brown having
died before, of the wounds he received on the sixth of May, prince Charles of Lorraine sallied
out with a large body of Austrians, and attacked the rear of the Prussians; but did no further
mischief than killing about two hundred of their men. The siege of Prague being thus raised,
the imprisoned Austrians received their deliverer, count Daun, with inexpressible joy, and
their united forces became greatly superior to those of the king of Prussia, who was in a short
time obliged to evacuate Bohemia, and take refuge in Saxony. The Austrians harassed him as
much as possible in his retreat; but their armies, though superior in numbers, were not in
a condition, from their late sufferings, to make any decisive attempt upon him, as the frontiers
of Saxony abound with situations easily defended.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE DEFENCE OF HANOVER.

Having thus described the progress of the Prussians in Bohemia, we must cast our eyes on the
transactions which distinguished the campaign in Westphalia. To guard against the storm which
menaced Hanover in particular, orders were transmitted thither to recruit the troops that had
been sent back from England, to augment each company, to remount the cavalry with the utmost
expedition; not to suffer any horses to be conveyed out of the electorate; to furnish the magazines
in that country with all things necessary for fifty thousand men. Of these, twenty-six thousand
were to be Hanoverians, and, in consequence of engagements entered into for that purpose, twelve
thousand Hessians, six thousand Brunswickers, two thousand Saxe-Gothans, and a thousand Lunenburghers,
to be joined by a considerable body of Prussians, the whole commanded by his royal highness
the duke of Cumberland. The king of England having published a manifesto, dated at Hanover,
specifying his motives for taking the field in Westphalia, the troops of the confederated states
that were to compose the allied army, under the name of an army of observation, began to assemble
with all possible diligence near Bielefeldt. Thither the generals, appointed to command the
several divisions, repaired to settle the plan of operations with their commander, the duke
of Cumberland, who having left London on the ninth of April, arrived on the sixteenth at Hanover,
and from thence repaired to the army, which, having been joined by three Prussian regiments
that retired from Wesel, consisted of thirty-seven battalions and thirty-four squadrons. Of
these, six battalions and six squadrons were posted at Bielefeldt, under the command of lieutenant-general
baron de Sporcken; six battalions, under lieutenant-general de Block, at Hervorden; six battalions
and four squadrons, under major-general Ledebour, between Hervorden and Minden; seven battalions
and ten squadrons, under lieutenant-general d'Oberg, in the neighbourhood of Hamelen; and five
battalions and four squadrons, under major-general de Hauss, near Nienburgh. The head-quarters
of his royal highness were at Bielefeldt.

SKIRMISHES WITH THE FRENCH.

In the meantime, the French on the Lower Rhine continued filing off incessantly. The siege
of Gueldres was converted into a blockade, occasioned by the difficulties the enemy found in
raising batteries; and a party of Hanoverians having passed the Weser, as well to ravage the
country of Paderborn as to reconnoitre the French, carried off several waggons loaded with
wheat and oats, destined for the territories of the elector of Cologn. On the other hand, colonel
Fischer having had an engagement with a small body of Hanoverians, in the county of Tecklenburgh,
routed them, and made some prisoners. After several other petty skirmishes between the French
and the Hanoverians, the duke of Cumberland altered the position of his camp, by placing it
between Bielefeldt and Hervorden, in hopes of frustrating the design of the enemy; who, declining
to attack him on the side of Bracwede, after having reconnoitred his situation several days,
made a motion on their left, as if they meant to get between him and the Weser. This step was
no sooner taken, than, on the thirteenth of June in the afternoon, having received advice that
the enemy had caused a large body of troops, followed by a second, to march on his right to
Burghotte, he ordered his army to march that evening towards Hervorden; and, at the same time,
major-general Hardenberg marched with four battalions of grenadiers, and a regiment of horse,
to reinforce that post. Count Schulenberg covered the left of the march with a battalion of
grenadiers, a regiment of horse, and the light troops of Buckenburgh. The whole army marched
in two columns. The right, composed of horse, and followed by two battalions, to cover their
passage through the enclosures and defiles, passed by the right of Bielefeldt; and the left,
consisting of infantry, marched by the left of the same town. The vanguard of the French army
attacked the rear guard of the allies, commanded by major-general Einsiedel, very briskly,
and at first put them into some confusion, but they immediately recovered themselves. This
was in the beginning of the night. At break of day the enemy's reinforcements returned to the
charge, but were again repulsed, nor could they once break through lieutenant-colonel Al-feldt's
Hanoverian guards, which closed the army's march with a detachment of regular troops and a
new raised corps of hunters.

DUKE OF CUMBERLAND PASSES THE WESER.

The allies encamped at Cofeldt on the fourteenth, and remained there all the next day, when
the enemy's detachments advanced to the gates of Hervorden, and made a feint as if they would
attack the town, after having summoned it to surrender; but they retired without attempting
any thing further; and, in the meantime, the troops that were posted at Hervorden, and formed
the rear guard, passed the Weser on the side of Remen, without any molestation, and encamped
at Holtzuysen. A body of troops which had been left at Bielefeldt, to cover the duke's retreat,
after some skirmishes with the French, rejoined the army in the neighbourhood of Herfort; and
a few days after, his royal highness drew near his bridges on the Weser, and sent over his
artillery, baggage, and ammunition. At the same time some detachments passed the river on the
right, between Minden and Oldendorp, and marked out a new camp advantageously situated, having
the Weser in front, and the right and left covered with eminences and marshes. There the army
under his royal highness re-assembled, and the French fixed their head-quarters at Bielefeldt,
which the Hanoverians had quitted, leaving in it only a part of a magazine, which had been
set on fire. By this time the French were in such want of forage, that M. d'Etrées himself,
the princes of the blood, and all the officers without exception, were obliged to send back
part of their horses. However, on the tenth of June, their whole army, consisting of seventy
battalions and forty squadrons, with fifty-two pieces of cannon, besides a body of cavalry
left at Ruremonde for the conveniency of forage, was put in motion. In spite of almost impassable
forests, famine, and every other obstacle that could be thrown in their way by a vigilant and
experienced general, they at length surmounted all difficulties, and advanced into a country
abounding with plenty, and unused to the ravages of war. It was imagined that the passage of
the Weser, which defends Hanover from foreign attacks, would have been vigorously opposed by
the army of the allies; but whether, in the present situation of affairs, it was thought advisable
to act only upon the defensive, and not to begin the attack in a country that was not concerned
as a principal in the war, or the duke of Cumberland found himself too weak to make head against
the enemy, is a question we shall not pretend to determine. However that may have been, the
whole French army passed the Weser on the tenth and eleventh of July, without the loss of a
man. The manner of effecting this passage is thus related: mareschal d'Etrées, being informed
that his magazines of provisions were well furnished, his ovens established, and the artillery
and pontoons arrived at the destined places, ordered lieutenant-general Broglio, with ten battalions,
twelve squadrons, and ten pieces of cannon, to march to Engheren; lieutenant-general M. de
Chevert, with sixteen battalions, three brigades of carabineers, the royal hunters, and six
hundred hussars, to march to Hervorden, and lieutenant-general marquis d'Armentieres, with
twelve battalions, and ten squadrons, to march to Ulrickhausen. All these troops being arrived
in their camp on the fourth of July, halted the fifth. On the sixth, twenty-two battalions,
and thirty-two squadrons, under the command of the duke of Orleans, who was now arrived at
the army, inarched to Ulrickhausen, from whence M. d'Armentieres had set out early in the morning,
with the troops under his command, and by hasty marches got on the seventh, by eleven at night,
to Blankenhoven, where he found the boats which had gone from Ahrensberg. The bridges were
built, the cannon planted, and the intrenchments at the head of the bridges completed in the
night between the seventh and eighth. The mareschal having sent away part of his baggage from
Bielefeldt on the sixth, went in person on the seventh at eleven o'clock to Horn, and on the
eighth to Braket. On advice that M. d'Armentieres had thrown his bridges across without opposition,
and was at work on his intrenchments, he went on the ninth to Blankenhoven, to see the bridges
and intrenchments; and afterwards advanced to examine the first position he intended for this
army, and came down to the right side of the Weser to the abbey of Corvey, where he forded
the river, with the princes of the blood, and their attendants. On the tenth in the morning
he got on horseback by four o'clock, to see the duke of Orlean's division file off, which arrived
at Corvey at ten o'clock; as also that of M. d'Armentieres, which arrived at eleven, and that
of M. Souvre, which arrived at noon. The mareschal having examined the course of the river,
caused the bridges of pontoons to be laid within gunshot of the abbey, where the viscount de
Turenne passed that river in the year one thousand six hundred and seventy-three, and where
the divisions under Broglio and Chevert now passed, it on the twelfth and thirteenth. These
two generals being informed of what was to be done upon the Upper Weser, attacked Minden, and
carried it, whilst a detachment of the French entered the country of East Friesland, under
the command of the marquis d'Auvel; and, after taking possession of Lier, inarched on the right
side of the Ems to Embden, the only sea-port the king of Prussia had, which at first seemed
determined to make a defence; but the inhabitants were not agreed upon the methods to be taken
for that purpose. They therefore met to deliberate, but in the meantime, their gates being
shut, M. d'Auvel caused some cannon to be brought to beat them down; and the garrison, composed
of four hundred Prussians, not being strong enough to defend the town, the soldiers mutinied
against their officers, whereupon a capitulation was agreed on, and the gates were opened to
the French commander, who made his troops enter with a great deal of order, assured the magistrates
that care should be taken to make them observe a good discipline, and published two ordinances,
one for the security of the religion and commerce of the city, and the other for prohibiting
the exportation of corn and forage out of that principality. The inhabitants were; however,
obliged to take an oath of allegiance to the French king.

BATTLE OF HASTENBECK.

On Sunday, the twenty-fourth of July, the French, after having laid part of the electorate
of Hanover under contribution, marched in three columns, with their artillery, towards the
village of Latford, when major-general Furstenburgh, who commanded the out-ports in the village,
sent an officer to inform the duke of Cumberland of their approach. His royal highness immediately
reinforced those posts with a body of troops, under the command of lieutenant-general Sporcken;
but finding it impossible to support the village, as it was commanded by the heights opposite
to it, which were possessed by the enemy, and being sensible that it would be always in his
power to retake it, from its situation in a bottom between two hills, he withdrew his post
from Latford. The French then made two attacks, one at the point of the wood, and the other
higher up in the same wood, opposite to the grenadiers commanded by major-general Hardenberg,
but they failed in both; and though the fire of their artillery was very hot, they were obliged
to retire. The French army encamping on the heights opposite to the duke of Cumberland's posts,
the intelligence received, that M. d'Etrées had assembled all his troops, and was furnished
with a very considerable train of artillery, left his royal highness no room to doubt of his
intending to attack him. He, therefore, resolved to change his camp for a more advantageous
situation, by drawing up his army on the eminence between the Weser and the woods, leaving
the Hamelen river on his right, the village of Hasten-beck in his front, and his left close
to the wood, at the point of which his royal highness had a battery of twelve pounders and
haubitzers. There was a hollow way from the left of the village to the battery, and a morass
on the other side of Hastenbeck to his right. Major-general Schulenberg, with the hunters,
and two battalions of grenadiers, was posted in the corner of the wood upon the left of the
battery; his royal highness ordered the village of Hastenbeck to be cleared to his front, to
prevent it being in the power of the enemy to keep possession of it, and the ways by which
the allies had a communication with that village during their encampment to be rendered impassable.
In the evening-he withdrew all his outposts, and in this position the army lay upon their arms
all night. On the twenty-fifth, in the morning, the French army marched forwards in columns,
and began to cannonade the allies very severely, marching and counter-marching continually,
and seeming to intend three attacks, on the right, the left, and the centre. In the evening
their artillery appeared much superior to that of the allies. The army was again ordered to
lie all night on their arms; his royal highness caused a battery at the end of the wood to
be repaired; count Schulenberg to be reinforced with a battalion of grenadiers, and two field
pieces of cannon; and that battery to be also supported by four more battalions of grenadiers,
under the command of major-general Hardenberg. He likewise caused a battery to be erected of
twelve six-pounders, behind the village of Hastenbeck, and took all the precautions he could
think of to give the enemy a warm reception. As soon as it was day light, he mounted on horseback
to reconnoitre the position of the enemy, whom he found in the same situation as the day before.
At a little after five a very smart cannonading began against the battery behind the village,
which was supported by the Hessian infantry and cavalry, who stood a most severe fire with
surprising steadiness and resolution. Between seven and eight the firing of small arms began
on the left of the allies, when his royal highness ordered major-general Behr, with three battalions
of Brunswick, to sustain the grenadiers in the wood, if their assistance should be wanted;
The cannonading continued above six hours, during which the troops, that were exposed to it,
never once abated of their firmness. The fire of the small arms on the left increasing, and
the French seeming to gain ground, his royal highness detached the colonels Darkenhausen and
Bredenbach, with three Hanoverian battalions and six squadrons, round the wood by Afferde,
who, towards the close of the day, drove several squadrons of the enemy back to their army,
without giving them any opportunity to charge. At length the grenadiers in the wood, apprehensive
of being surrounded, from the great numbers of the enemy that appeared there, and were marching
round on that side, though they repulsed every thing that appeared in their front, thought
it advisable to retire nearer the left of the army, a motion which gave the enemy an opportunity
of possessing themselves of that battery without opposition. Here the hereditary prince of
Brunswick distinguished himself at the head of a battalion of Wolfenbuttle guards, and another
of Hanoverians, who attacked and repulsed, with their bayonets, a superior force of the enemy,
and retook the battery. But the French being in possession of an eminence which commanded and
flanked both the lines of the infantry and the battery of the allies, and where they were able
to support their attack under the cover of a hill, his royal highness, considering the superior
numbers of the enemy, near double to his, and the impossibility of dislodging them from their
post, without exposing his own troops too much, ordered a retreat; in consequence of which
his army retired, first to Hamelen, where he left a garrison, then to Nienburgh, and afterwards
to Hoya; in the neighbourhood of which town, after sending away all the magazines, sick, and
wounded, he encamped, in order to cover Bremen and Verden, and to preserve a communication
with Stade, to which place the archives, and most valuable effects of Hanover had been removed.
In this engagement, colonel Bredenbach attacked four brigades very strongly posted, with a
battery of fourteen pieces of cannon, repulsed, and drove them down a precipice, and took all
their artillery and ammunition; but preferring the care of his wounded to the glory of carrying
away the cannon, he brought off only six, nailing up and destroying the rest. The loss of the
allies in all the skirmishes, which lasted three days, was three hundred and twenty-seven men
killed, nine hundred and seven wounded, and two hundred and twenty missing, or taken prisoners;
whilst that of the French, according to their own accounts, amounted to fifteen hundred men.

The French, being left masters of the field, soon reduced Hamelen, which was far from being
well fortified, obliged the garrison to capitulate, and took out of the town sixty brass cannon,
several mortars, forty ovens, part of the equipage of the duke's army, and large quantities
of provisions and ammunition, which they found in it, together with a great many sick and wounded,
who, not being included in the capitulation, were made prisoners of war. Whether the court
of France had any reason to find fault with the conduct of the mareschal d'Etrées, or whether
its monarch was blindly guided by the counsels of his favourite the marquese de Pompadour,
who, desirous to testify her gratitude to the man who had been one of the chief instruments
of her high promotion, was glad of an opportunity to retrieve his shattered fortunes, and,
at the same time, to add to her own already immense treasures, we shall not pretend to determine;
though the event seems plainly to speak the last. Even at the time, no comparison was made
between the military skill of the mareschal d'Etrées, and that of the duke de Richelieu; but,
however that may have been, this last, who, if he had not shone in the character of a soldier,
excelled all, or at least most of his contemporaries in the more refined arts of a courtier,
was, just before the battle we have been speaking of, appointed to supersede the former in
the command of the French army in Lower Saxony, where he arrived on the sixth of August, with
the title of mareschal of France; and M. d'Etrees immediately resigned the command.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE FRENCH TAKE POSSESSION OF HANOVER AND HESSE-CASSEL.

Immediately after the battle of Hastenbeck, the French sent a detachment of four thousand men
to lay under contribution the countries of Hanover and Brunswick-Wolfenbuttel, as well as the
duchies of Bremen and Verden; and two days after the arrival of this new commander, the duke
de Chevreuse was detached with two thousand men to take possession of Hanover itself, with
the title of governor of that city. He accordingly marched thither; and upon his arrival the
Hanoverian garrison was disarmed, and left at liberty to retire where they pleased. About the
same time M. de Con-tades, with a detachment from the French army, was sent to make himself
master of the territories of Hesse-Cassel, where he found no opposition. He was met at Warberg
by that prince's master of the horse, who declared, that they were ready to furnish the French
army with all the succours the country could afford; and accordingly the magistrates of Cassel
presented him with the keys as soon as he entered their city. Gottingen was ordered by M. d'Armentieres
to prepare for him within a limited time, upon pain of military execution, four thousand pounds
of white bread, two thousand bushels of oats, a greater quantity than could be found in the
whole country, an hundred loads of hay, and other provisions.

THE FRENCH REDUCE VERDEN and BREMEN.

The duke of Cumberland remained encamped in the neighbourhood of Hoya till the twenty-fourth
of August, when, upon advice that the enemy had laid two bridges over the Aller in the night,
and had passed that river with a large body of troops, he ordered his army to march, to secure
the important post and passage of Rothenbourg, lest they should attempt to march round on his
left. He encamped that night at Hausen, having detached lieutenant-general Oberg, with eight
battalions and six squadrons, to Ottersberg, to which place he marched next day, and encamped
behind the Wummer, in a very strong situation, between Ottersberg and Eothenbourg. The French
took possession of Verden on the twenty-sixth of August, and one of their detachments went
on the twenty-ninth to Bremen, where the gates were immediately opened to them. The duke of
Cumberland, now closely pressed on all sides, and in danger of having his communication with
the Stade cut off, which the enemy was endeavouring to effect, by seizing upon all the posts
round him, found it necessary to decamp again; to abandon Eothenbourg, of which the French
immediately took possession; to retreat to Selsingen, where his head-quarters were, on the
first of September; and from thence, on the third of the same month, to retire under the cannon
of Stade. Here it was imagined that his army would have been able to maintain their ground
between the Aller and the Elbe, till the severity of the season should put an end to the campaign.
Accordingly, his royal highness, upon his taking this position, sent a detachment of his forces
to Buck-Schantz, with some artillery, and orders to defend that place to the utmost; but as
it could not possibly have held out many days, and as the French, who now hemmed him in on
all sides, by making themselves masters of a little fort at the mouth of the river Swinga,
would have cut off his communication with the Elbe, so that four English men of war, then in
that river, could have been of no service to him, he was forced to accept of a mediation offered
by the king of Denmark, by his minister the count de Lynar, and to sign the famous convention
of Closter-Seven, [422] [See note 3K, at the end of this Vol.] by which thirty-eight thousand
Hanoverians laid down their arms, and were dispersed into different quarters of cantonment.

CHAPTER XIV.

     The French enter the Prussian Dominions, where they commit
     great Disorders..... Reflections on the Misconduct of the
     Allied Army..... Russian Fleet blocks up the Prussian Ports
     in the Baltic..... Russians take Memel..... Declaration of
     the King of Prussia on that occasion..... Army of the Empire
     raised with Difficulty..... The Austrians take Gabel.....
     and destroy Zittau..... The Prince of Prussia leaves the
     Army..... Communication between England and Ostend broke
     off..... Gueldres capitulates..... Skirmishes between the
     Prussians and Austrians..... and between the Prussians and
     Russians..... Mareschal Lehwald attacks the Russians in their
     Intrenchments near Norkitten..... Hasty Retreat of the
     Russians out of Prussia..... French and Imperialists take
     Gotha..... Action between the Prussians and Austrians near
     Goerlitz..... The French oblige Prince Ferdinand to
     retire..... Berlin laid under Contribution by the Austrians;
     and Leipsic subjected to military Execution by the
     Prussians..... Battle of Rosbach..... The Austrians take
     Schweidnitz; and defeat the Prince of Bevern near
     Breslau..... Mareschal Keith lays Bohemia under
     Contribution..... King of Prussia defeats the Austrians at
     Lissa; retakes Breslau and Schweidnitz, and becomes Master
     of all Silesia..... Hostilities of the Swedes in
     Pomerania..... Mareschal Lehwald forces the Swedes to
     retire...... Memorial presented to the Dutch by Colonel
     Yorke, relative to Ostend and Nieuport..... King of
     Prussia's Letter to the King of Great Britain..... His
     Britannic Majesty's Declaration..... Disputes concerning the
     Convention of Closter-Seven..... Progress of the Hanoverian
     Army..... Death of the Queen of Poland..... Transactions at
     Sea..... Fate of Captain Death..... Session opened.....
     Supplies granted..... Funds for raising the Supplies.....
     Messages from the King to the House of Commons..... Second
     Treaty with the King of Prussia..... Bill for fortifying
     Milford Haven..... Regulations with respect to Corn.....
     Bills for the Encouragement of Seamen, and for explaining
     the Militia Act..... Act for repairing London Bridge..... Act
     for ascertaining the Qualification of voting..... Bill for
     more effectually manning the Navy..... Amendments in the
     Habeas-Corpus Act..... Scheme in Favour of the Foundling
     Hospital..... Proceedings relative to the African
     Company..... Session closed..... Vigorous Preparations for
     War..... Death of the Princess Caroline..... Sea Engagement
     off Cape Francois..... Remarkable success of Captain
     Forest..... French evacuate Embden..... Success of Admiral
     Osborne..... French Fleet driven ashore in Basque Road.....
     Admiral Broderick's Ship burnt at Sea..... Descent at
     Cancalle-Bay..... Expedition against Cherbourg...... Descent
     at St. Maloes..... English defeated at St. Cas..... Captures
     from the Enemy..... Clamours of the Dutch Merchants on
     Account of the Capture of their Ships..... Their famous
     Petition to the States-general

THE FRENCH ENTER THE PRUSSIAN DOMINIONS.

The Hanoverians being now quite subdued, and the whole force of the French let loose against
the king of Prussia by this treaty, mareschal Richelieu immediately ordered lieutenant-general
Berchini to march with all possible expedition, with the troops under his command, to join
the prince de Soubise: the gens-d'-arms, and other troops that were in the landgraviate of
Hesse-Cassel, received the same order; and sixty battalions of foot, and the greatest part
of the horse belonging to the French army, were directed to attack the Prussian territories.
Mareschal Richelieu himself arrived at Brunswick on the fifteenth of September; and having,
in a few days after, assembled an hundred and ten battalions, and an hundred and fifty squadrons,
with an hundred pieces of cannon, near Wolfenbuttel, he entered the king of Prussia's dominions
with his army on the twenty-seventh, twenty-eighth, and twenty-ninth of the same month, in
three columns, which penetrated into Halberstadt and Brandenburgh, plundering the towns, exacting
contributions, and committing many enormities, at which their general is said to have connived.
In the meantime the duke of Cumberland returned to England, where he arrived on the eleventh
of October, and shortly after resigned all his military commands.

Had the allied army, after the battle of Hastenbeck, marched directly to the Leine, as it might
easily have done, and then taken post on the other side of Wolfenbuttel, Halberstadt, and Magdeburgh,
it might have waited securely under the cannon of the latter place for the junction of the
Prussian forces; instead of which, they injudiciously turned off to the Lower Weser, retiring
successively from Hamelen to Nienburgh, Verden, Rothenburgh, Buxtehude, and lastly to Stade,
where, for want of subsistence and elbow-room, the troops were all made prisoners of war at
large. They made a march of an hundred and fifty miles to be cooped up in a nook, instead of
taking the other route, which was only about an hundred miles, and would have led them to a
place of safety. By this unaccountable conduct, the king of Prussia was not only deprived of
the assistance of near forty thousand good troops, which, in the close of the campaign, might
have put him upon an equality with the French and the army of the empire; but also exposed
to, and actually invaded by, his numerous enemies on all sides, insomuch that his situation
became now more dangerous than ever; and the fate which seemed to have threatened the empress
a few months before, through his means, was, to all appearance, turned against himself. His
ruin was predicted, nor could human prudence foresee how he might be extricated from his complicated
distress; for, besides the invasion of his territories by the French under the duke de Richelieu,
the Russians, who had made for a long time a dilatory march, and seemed uncertain of their
own resolutions, all at once quickened their motions, and entered Ducal Prussia, under mareschal
Apraxin and general Fermor, marking their progress by every inhumanity that unbridled cruelty,
lust, and rapine, can be imagined capable of committing. A large body of Austrians entered
Silesia, and penetrated as far as Breslau; then, turning back, they laid seige to the important
fortress of Schweidnitz, the key of that country. A second body entered Lusa-tia, another quarter
of the Prussian territories, and made themselves masters of Zittau. Twenty-two thousand Swedes
penetrated into Prussian Pomerania, took the towns of Anclam and Demmin, and laid the whole
country under contribution. The army of the empire, reinforced by that of prince Soubise, after
many delays, was at last in full march to enter Saxony; and this motion left the Austrians
at liberty to turn the greatest part of their forces to the reduction of Silesia. An Austrian
general penetrating through Lusatia, passed by the Prussian armies, and suddenly presenting
himself before the gates of Berlin, laid the whole country under contribution; and though he
retired on the approach of a body of Prussians, yet he still found means to interrupt the communication
of these last with Silesia. The Prussians, it is true, exerted themselves bravely on all sides,
and their enemies fled before them; but whilst one body was pursuing, another gained upon them
in some other part. The winter approached, their strength decayed, and their adversaries multiplied
daily. Their king harassed, and almost spent with incessant fatigue both of body and of mind,
was in a manner excluded from the empire. The greatest part of his dominions were either taken
from him, or laid under contribution, and possessed by his enemies, who collected the public
revenues, fattened on the contributions, and with the riches which they drew from the electorate
of Hanover, and other conquests, defrayed the expenses of the war; and by the convention of
Closter-Seven he was deprived of his allies, and left without any assistance whatever, excepting
what the British parliament might think fit to supply. How different is this picture from that
which the king of Prussia exhibited when he took arms to enter Saxony! But, in order to form
a clear idea of these events, of the situation of his Prussian majesty, and of the steps he
took to defeat the designs of his antagonists, and extricate himself from his great and numerous
distresses, it will be proper now to take a view of the several transactions of his enemies,
as well during his stay in Bohemia, as from the time of his leaving it, down to that which
we are now speaking of.

A RUSSIAN FLEET BLOCKS UP THE PRUSSIAN PORTS IN THE BALTIC.

Whilst the king of Prussia was in Bohemia, the empress of Russia ordered notice to be given
to all masters of ships, that if any of them were found assisting the Prussians, by the transportation
of troops, artillery, and ammunition, they should be condemned as legal prizes; and her fleet,
consisting of fifteen men of war and frigates, with two bomb-ketches, was sent to block up
the Prussian ports in the Baltic, where it took several ships of that nation, which were employed
in carrying provisions and merchandise from one port to another. One of these ships of war
appearing before Memel, a town of Poland, but subject to Prussia, the commandant sent an officer
to the captain, to know whether he came as a friend or an enemy? to which interrogation the
Russian captain replied, that, notwithstanding the dispositions of the empress of both the
Russias were sufficiently known, yet he would further explain them, by declaring that his orders,
and those of the other Russian commanders, were, in conformity to the laws of war, to seize
on all the Prussian vessels they met with on their cruise. Upon which the commandant of Memel
immediately gave orders for pointing the cannon to fire upon all Russian ships that should
approach that place.

The land-forces of the Russians had now lingered on their march upwards of six months; and
it was pretty generally doubted, by those who were supposed to have the best intelligence,
whether they ever were designed really to pass into the Prussian territories, not only on account
of their long stay on the borders of Lithuania, but also because several of their cossacks
had been severely punished for plundering the waggons of some Prussian peasants upon the frontiers
of Courland, and the damage of the peasants compensated with money, though general Apraxin's
army was at the same time greatly distressed by the want of provisions; when, on a sudden,
they quickened their motions, and showed they were in earnest, determined to accomplish the
ruin of Prussia. Their first act of hostility was the attack of Memel, which surrendered: and,
by the articles of capitulation, it was agreed that the garrison should march out with all
the honours of war, after having engaged not to serve against the empress, or any of her allies,
for the space of one year.

His Prussian majesty, justly foreseeing the great enormities that were to be expected from
these savage enemies, who were unaccustomed to make war, except upon nations as barbarous as
themselves, who looked upon war only as an opportunity for plunder, and every country through
which they happened to march as theirs by right of conquest, published the following declaration:
"It is sufficiently known, that the king of Prussia, after the example of his glorious predecessors,
has, ever since his accession to the crown, laid it down as a maxim to seek the friendship
of the imperial court of Russia, and cultivate it by every method. His Prussian majesty hath
had the satisfaction to live, for several successive years, in the strictest harmony with the
reigning empress: and this happy union would be still subsisting, if evil-minded potentates
had not broke it by their secret machinations, and carried things to such a height, that the
ministers on both sides have been recalled, and the correspondence broken off. However melancholy
these circumstances might be for the king, his majesty was nevertheless most attentive to prevent
any thing that might increase the alienation of the Russian court. He hath been particularly
careful, during the disturbances of the war that now unhappily rages, to avoid whatever might
involve him in a difference with that court, notwithstanding the great grievances he hath to
allege against it; and that it was publicly known the court of Vienna had at last drawn that
of Russia into its destructive views, and made it serve as an instrument for favouring the
schemes of Austria. His majesty hath given the whole world incontestible proofs, that he was
under an indispensable necessity of having recourse to the measures he hath taken against the
courts of Vienna and Saxony, who forced him by their conduct to take up arms for his defence.
Yet, even since things have been brought to this extremity, the king hath offered to lay down
his arms, if proper securities should be granted to him. His majesty hath not neglected to
expose the artifices by which the imperial court of Russia hath been drawn into measures so
opposite to the empress's sentiments, and which would excite the utmost indignation of that
great princess, if the truth could be placed before her without disguise. The king did more:
he suggested to her imperial majesty sufficient means either to excuse her not taking any part
in the present war, or to avoid, upon the justest grounds, the execution of those engagements
which the court of Vienna claimed by a manifest abuse of obligations, which they employed to
palliate their unlawful views. It wholly depended upon the empress of Russia to extinguish
the flames of the war, without unsheathing the sword, by pursuing the measures suggested by
the king. This conduct would have immortalized her reign throughout all Europe. It would have
gained her more lasting glory than can be acquired by the greatest triumphs. The king finds
with regret, that all his precautions and care to maintain peace with the Russian empire are
fruitless, and that the intrigues of his enemies have prevailed. His majesty sees all the considerations
of friendship and good neighbourhood set aside by the imperial court of Russia, as well as
the observance of its engagements with his majesty. He sees that court marching its troops
through the territories of a foreign power, and, contrary to the tenor of treaties, in order
to attack the king in his dominions; and thus taking part in a war, in which his enemies have
involved the Russian empire. In such circumstances, the king hath no other part to take, but
to employ the power which God hath intrusted to him in defending himself, protecting his subjects,
and repelling every unjust attack. His majesty will never lose sight of the rules which are
observed, even in the midst of war, among civilized nations. But if, contrary to all hope and
expectation, these rules should be violated by the troops of Russia, if they commit in the
king's territories disorders and excesses disallowed by the law of arms, his majesty must not
be blamed if he makes reprisals in Saxony; and if, instead of that good order and rigorous
discipline which have hitherto been observed by his army, avoiding all sorts of violence, he
finds himself forced, contrary to his inclination, to suffer the provinces and subjects of
Saxony to be treated in the same manner as his own territories shall be treated. As to the
rest, the king will soon publish to the whole world the futility of the reasons alleged by
the imperial court of Russia to justify its aggression; and as his majesty is forced upon making
his defence, he has room to hope, with confidence, that the Lord of Hosts will bless his righteous
arms: that he will disappoint the unjust enterprises of his enemies, and grant him his powerful
assistance to enable him to make head against them."

ARMY OF THE EMPIRE RAISED.

When the king of Prussia was put under the ban of the empire, the several princes who compose
that body were required, by the decree of the Aulic council, as we observed before, to furnish
their respective contingents against him. Those who feared him looked upon this as a fair opportunity
of reducing him; and those who stood in awe of the house of Austria were, through necessity,
compelled to support that power which they dreaded. Besides, they were accustomed to the influence
of a family in which the empire had, for a long time, been in a manner hereditary; and were
also intimidated by the appearance of a confederacy the most formidable, perhaps, that the
world had ever seen. Yet, notwithstanding all this, the contingents, both of men and money,
were collected slowly; the troops were badly composed; and many of those, not only of the protestant
princes, but also of the catholics, showed the utmost reluctance to act against his Prussian
majesty, which, indeed, none of them would have been able to do had it not been for the assistance
of the French under the prince de Soubise. The elector palatine lost above a thousand men by
desertion. Four thousand of the troops belonging to the duke of Wirtemberg being delivered
to the French commissary on the twenty-fourth of June, were immediately reviewed; but the review
was scarcely finished, when they began to cry aloud that they were sold. Next morning thirty
of them deserted at once, and were soon followed by parties of twenty and thirty each, who
forced their way through the detachments that guarded the gates of Stutgard, and in the evening
the mutiny became general. They fired upon the officers in their barracks, and let their general
know that if he did not immediately withdraw, they would put him to death. Meanwhile, some
of the officers having pursued the deserters, brought back a part of them prisoners, when the
rest of the soldiers declared, that if they were not immediately released, they would set fire
to the stadthouse and barracks; upon which the prisoners were set at liberty late in the evening.
Next morning the soldiers assembled, and having seized some of the officers, three or four
hundred of them marched out of the town at that time, with the music of the regiments playing
before them; and in this manner near-three thousand of them filed off, and the remainder were
afterwards discharged.

THE AUSTRIANS TAKE GABEL.

The king of Prussia, upon his leaving Bohemia after the battle of Kolin, retired towards Saxony,
as we observed before; and having sent his heavy artillery and mortars up the Elbe to Dresden,
fixed his camp on the banks of the river, at Leitmeritz, where his main army was strongly intrenched,
whilst mareschal Keith, with the troops under his command, encamped on the opposite shore;
a free communication being kept open by means of a bridge. At the same time detachments were
ordered to secure the passes into Saxony. As this position of the king of Prussia prevented
the Austrians from being able to penetrate into Saxony by the way of the Elbe, they moved,
by slow marches, into the circle of Buntzla, and, at last, with a detachment commanded by the
duke d'Aremberg and M. Macguire, on the eighteenth! of June fell suddenly upon, and took the
important post at Gabel, situated between Boemish Leypa and Zittau, after an obstinate defence
made by the Prussian garrison, under major-general Putkammer, consisting of four battalions,
who were obliged to surrender prisoners of war. The Austrians having by this motion gained
a march towards Lusatia, upon a corps which had been detached under the command of the prince
of Prussia to watch them, his Prussian majesty thought proper to leave Leitmeritz on the twentieth
in the morning, and lay that night at Lickowitz, a village opposite to Leitmeritz, of which
a battalion of his troops still kept possession, while the rest of his army remained encamped
in the plain before that place. Next morning, at break of day, prince Henry decamped, and made
so good a disposition for his retreat, that he did not lose a single man, though he marched
in sight of the whole body of Austrian irregulars. He passed the bridge at Leitmeritz, after
withdrawing the battalion that was in the town, and having burnt the bridge, the whole army
united, and made a small movement towards the passes of the mountains; the king then lying
at Sulowitz, near the field where the battle of Lowoschutz was fought on the first of October
of the preceding year. The heavy baggage was sent on in the afternoon, with a proper escort;
and in the morning of the twenty-second the army marched in two columns, and encamped on the
high grounds at Lusechitz, a little beyond Lenai, where it halted on the twenty-third. No attack
was made upon the rear-guard, though great numbers of Austrian hussars, and other irregulars,
had appeared the evening before within cannon-shot of the Prussian camp. On the twenty-fourth
the army marched to Nellendorf; on the twenty-fifth, it encamped near Cotta, on the twenty-sixth
near Pirna, where it halted the next day; and on the twenty-eighth it crossed the river near
that place, and entered Lusatia, where, by the end of the month, it encamped at Bautzen.

The king's army made this retreat with all the success that could be wished; but the corps
under the prince of Prussia had not the same good fortune. For the Austrians, immediately after
their taking Gabel, sent a strong detachment against Zittau, a trading town in the circle of
Upper Saxony, where the Prussians had large magazines, and a garrison of six battalions, and,
in his sight, attacked it with uncommon rage. Paying no regard to the inhabitants as being
friends or allies, but determined to reduce the place before the king of Prussia could have
time to march to its relief, they no sooner arrived before it, than they bombarded and cannonaded
it with such fury, that most of the garrison, finding themselves unable to resist, made their
escape, and carried off as much as they could of the magazines, leaving only three or four
hundred men in the town, under colonel Diricke, to hold it out as long as possible; which he
accordingly did, till the whole place was almost destroyed. The cannonading began on the twenty-third
of July, at eleven in the morning, and lasted till five in the evening. In this space of time
four thousand balls, many of them red hot, were fired into this unfortunate city, with so little
intermission, that it was soon set on fire in several places. In the confusion which the conflagration
produced, the Austrians entered the town, and the inhabitants imagined that they had then nothing
further to fear; and that their friends the Austrians would assist them in extinguishing the
flames, and saving the place; but in this particular their expectations were disappointed.
The pan-dours and Sclavonians, who rushed in with regular troops, made no distinction between
the Prussians and the inhabitants of Zittau: instead of helping to quench the flames, they
began to plunder the warehouses which the fire had not readied: so that all the valuable merchandise
they contained was either carried off, or reduced to ashes. Upwards of six hundred houses,
and almost all the public buildings, the cathedrals of St. John and St. James, the orphan house,
eight parsonage-houses, eight schools, the town-house and every thing contained in it, the
public weigh-house, the prison, the archives, and all the other documents of the town-council,
the plate and other things of value presented to the town, from time to time, by the emperors,
kings, and other princes and noblemen, were entirely destroyed, and more than four hundred
citizens were killed in this assault. Of the whole town there was left standing only one hundred
and thirty-eight houses, two churches, the council, library, and the salt-work. The queen of
Poland was so affected by this melancholy account, that she is said to have fainted away upon
hearing it. As this city belonged to their friend the king of Poland, the Austrians thought
proper to publish an excuse for their conduct, ascribing it entirely to the necessity they
were under, and the obstinate defence made by the Prussian garrison. But what excuses can atone
for such barbarity?

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE PRINCE OF PRUSSIA LEAVES THE ARMY.

The corps under the prince of Prussia, which had been witnesses to the destruction of this
unhappy place, was by the king's march to Bautzen, fortunately extricated from the danger of
being surrounded by the Austrians, who, upon his majesty's approach, retired from their posts
on the right. Soon after this event, the prince of Prussia, finding his health much impaired
by the fatigues of the campaign,* quitted the army, and returned to Berlin.

     * This was the reason that was publicly assigned for his
     quitting the army; but a much more probable one, which was
     only whispered, seems to have been, that this prince, than
     whom none ever was more remarkable for humanity and the
     social virtues, disliking the violent proceedings of the
     king his brother, could not refrain from expostulating with
     him on that subject: upon which his majesty, with an air of
     great disapprobation, told him, "That the air of Berlin
     would be better for him than that of the camp." The prince
     accordingly retired to Berlin, where he died soon after;
     grief and concern for the welfare of his brother, and for
     the steps taken by him, having no small share in his death.

In the meantime, mareschal Keith, who had been left upon the frontier to guard the passes of
the mountains of Bohemia, arrived at Pima, having been much harassed in his march by the enemy's
irregular troops, and lost some waggons of provisions and baggage. After resting a day at Pirna,
he pursued his march through Dresden with twenty battalions and forty squadrons, and encamped
on the right of the Elbe, before the gate of the new city, from whence he joined the king between
Bautzen and Coerlitz. The Prussian array, now re-assembled at this place, amounted to about
sixty thousand men, besides twelve battalions and ten squadrons which remained in the famous
camp at Pirna, under the prince of Anhault-Dessau, to cover Dresden, secure the gorges of the
mountains, and check the incursions of the Austrian irregulars, with whom, as they were continually
flying about the skirts of the Prussian army, as well in their encampments as on their marches,
almost daily skirmishes happened, with various success. Though some of these encounters were
very bloody, they cost the Prussians much fewer men than they lost by desertion since the battle
of Kolin. The reason seems obvious:--the Prussian army had been recruited, in times of peace,
from all parts of Germany; and though this way of recruiting may be very proper in such times,
yet it cannot be expected to answer in a state of actual war, especially an unfortunate war:
because the fidelity of such soldiers can never be so much depended on as that of natives,
who serve their natural sovereign from principle, and not merely for pay, and who must desert
their country, their parents, and their friends, at the same time that they desert their prince.

COMMUNICATION BETWEEN ENGLAND AND OSTEND BROKE OFF.

It will be proper here to take notice of some events which could not easily be mentioned before,
without breaking through the order we have proposed to ourselves in the writing of this history.--The
empress-queen, more embittered than ever against the king of Prussia and his allies, recalled
her ministers, count Coloredo and monsieur Zohern, from London, towards the beginning of July;
and about the same time count Kaunitz, great chancellor of the empire, informed Mr. Keith,
the British minister at Vienna, that the court of London, by the succours it had given, and
still continued to give, the king of Prussia, as well as by other circumstances relating to
the present state of affairs, having broken the solemn engagements which united this crown
with the house of Austria, her majesty the empress-queen had thought proper to recall her minister
from England, and consequently to break off all correspondence. Mr. Keith, in pursuance of
this notice, set out from Vienna on the twenty-ninth of July; as did also Mr. Desrolles, his
Britannic majesty's minister at the court of Brussels, from this last place, about the same
time. On the seventh of July, general Pisa, commandant of Ostend, Nieuport, and the maritime
ports of Flanders, sent his adjutant to the English vice-consul at Ostend, at six o'clock in
the morning, to tell him, that by orders from his court all communication with England was
broke off; and desired the vice-consul to intimate to the packet-boats and British shipping
at Ostend, Bruges, and Nieuport, to depart in twenty-four hours, and not to return into any
of the ports of the empress-queen till further disposition should be made. The reasons alleged
by the court of Vienna for debarring the subjects of his Britannic majesty from the use of
these ports, obtained for the house of Austria by the arms and treasures of Great Britain,
were, "That her imperial majesty the empress-queen, could not, with indifference, see England,
instead of giving the succours due to her by the most solemn treaties, enter into an alliance
with her enemy the king of Prussia, and actually afford him all manner of assistance, assembling
armies to oppose those which the most christian king, her ally, had sent to her aid, and suffering
privateers to exercise open violence in her roads, under the cannon of her ports and coasts,
without giving the least satisfaction or answer to the complaints made on that account; and
the king of Great Britain himself, at the very time she was offering him a neutrality for Hanover,
publishing, by a message to his parliament, that she had formed, with the most christian king,
dangerous designs against that electorate; therefore, her majesty, desirous of providing for
the security of her ports, judged it expedient to give the forementioned orders; and at the
same time to declare, that she could no longer permit a free communication between her subjects
and the English, which had hitherto been founded upon treaties that Great Britain had, without
scruple, openly violated." Notwithstanding these orders, the English packet-boats, with letters,
were allowed to pass as usual to and from Ostend; the ministers of her imperial majesty wisely
considering how good a revenue the postage of English letters brings in to the post-office
of the Austrian Netherlands. Ostend and Nieuport, by order of her imperial majesty, received
each of them a French garrison; the former on the nineteenth of July, and the latter next day,
under the command of M. de la Motte, upon whose arrival the Austrian troops evacuated those
places; though the empress-queen still reserved to herself, in both of them, the full and free
exercise of all her rights of sovereignty; to which purpose an oath was administered to the
French commandant by her majesty's minister-plenipotentiary for the government of the Low-Countries.
At the same time, their imperial and most christian majesties notified to the magistracy of
Hamburgh, that they must not admit any English men of war, or transports, into their port,
on pain of having a French garrison imposed on them. The city of Gueldres, which had been blocked
up by the French ever since the beginning of summer, was forced by famine to capitulate on
the twenty-fourth of August, and the garrison marched out with all the honours of war, in order
to be conducted to Berlin; but so many of them deserted, that when they passed by Cologn, the
whole garrison consisted only of the commandant and forty-seven men. By the surrender of this
place the whole country lay open to the French and their allies quite up to Magdeburgh; and
the empress-queen immediately received two hundred thousand crowns from the revenues of Cleves
and la Marcke alone. To return to the affairs more immediately relating to the king of Prussia.
The advanced posts of the prince of Anhault-Dessau at Pirna were attacked, on the tenth of
August, by a body of hussars and other irregular troops of the Austrians; but the Prussians
soon obliged them to retire, with the loss of several men and two pieces of cannon. On the
nineteenth of the same month, early in the morning, a great number of Austrian pan-dours surrounded
a little town called Gotliebe, in which a Prussian garrison was quartered, with a design to
take it by surprise. The pandours attacked it on all sides, and in the beginning killed twenty-three
Prussians, and wounded many; but the Prussians having rallied, repulsed the assailants with
great loss. These, however, were but a sort of preludes to much more decisive actions which
happened soon after. Silesia, which had hitherto been undisturbed this year, began now to feel
the effects of war. Baron Jahnus, an Austrian colonel, entering that country with only an handful
of men, made himself master of Hirschberg, Waldenberg, Gottesberg, Frankenstein, and Landshut.
They were, indeed, but open places; and he was repulsed in an attempt upon Strigau. On the
side of Franconia the army of the empire was assembling with all speed, under the prince of
Saxe-Hildburghausen; the French were marching a second army from their interior provinces into
Alsace, in order to join the Imperialists: the first division of their troops had already entered
the empire, and were advanced as far as Hanau. The Swedes were now preparing, with the utmost
expedition, to send a numerous army into Pomerania; and the Russians, who since the taking
of Memel had not done the king of Prussia much damage, besides that of obliging him to keep
an army in Prussia to oppose them, and interrupting the trade of Konigsberg by their squadrons,
were again advancing with hasty strides towards Prussia, marking their steps with horrid desolation.
Field-mareschal Lehwald, who had been left in Prussia with an army of thirty thousand men,
to guard that kingdom during the absence of his master, was encamped near Velau, when the Russians,
to the number of eighty thousand, after taking Memel, advanced against the territories of the
Prussian king, whose situation now drew upon him the attention of all Europe. In the night
between the seventh and eighth of August, colonel Malachowsti, one of mareschal Lehwald's officers,
marched to reconnoitre the position of the enemy, when a skirmish happened, which lasted near
two hours, between his advanced ranks and a Russian detachment three times stronger than the
Prussians. The Russians were repulsed, and fled into the woods, after having fifty men killed
and a great number wounded. The Prussians lost but one man, and had fourteen wounded.

MARESCHAL LEHWALD ATTACKS THE RUSSIANS NEAR NORKITTEN.

Several other little skirmishes happened between straggling parties of the two armies; and
the Russians went on pillaging and laying waste every thing before them, till at length the
two armies having approached one another in Brandenburgh-Prussia, mareschal Lehwald, finding
it impossible to spare detachments from so small a number as his was, compared to that of the
enemy, to cover the wretched inhabitants from the outrages committed on them by the Russian
cossacks, and other barbarians belonging to them, judged it absolutely necessary to attack
their main army; and accordingly, notwithstanding his great disadvantage in almost every respect,
he resolved to hazard a battle on the thirtieth of August. The Russians, consisting, as we
before observed, of eighty thousand regulars, under the command of mareschal Apraxin, avoiding
the open field, were intrenched in a most advantageous camp near Norkitten in Prussia. Their
army was composed of four lines, each of which was guarded by an intrenchment, and the whole
was defended by two hundred pieces of cannon, batteries being placed upon all the eminences.
Mareschal Lehwald's army scarcely amounted to thirty thousand men. The action began at five
in the morning, and was carried on with so much vigour, that the Prussians entirely broke the
whole first line of the enemy, and forced all their batteries. The prince of Holstein-Grottorp,
brother to the king of Sweden, at the head of his regiment of dragoons, routed the Russian
cavalry, and afterwards fell upon a regiment of grenadiers, which was cut to pieces; but when
the Prussians came to the second intrenchment, mareschal Lehwald, seeing that he could not
attempt to carry it without exposing his army too much, took the resolution to retire. The
Prussians returned to their former camp at Velau, and the Russians remained in their present
situation. The loss of the Prussians little exceeding two thousand killed and wounded, was
immediately replaced out of the disciplined militia. The Russians lost a much greater number.
General Lapuchin was wounded and taken prisoner, with a colonel of the Russian artillery; but
the former was sent back on his parole. The Prussia*: Army had, at first, made themselves masters
of above eighty pieces of cannon; but were afterwards obliged to abandon them, with eleven
of their own, for want of carriages. Three Russian generals were killed; but the Prussians
lost no general or officer of distinction, of which rank count Dohna was the only one that
was wounded.

HASTY RETREAT OF THE RUSSIANS OUT OF PRUSSIA.

After this engagement, mareschal Lehwald changed the position of his army, by drawing towards
Peters-wald; and the Russians, after remaining quite inactive till the thirteenth of September,
on a sudden, to the great surprise of every one, retreated out of Prussia with such precipitation,
that they left all their sick and wounded behind them, to the amount of fifteen or sixteen
thousand men, together with eighty pieces of cannon, and a considerable part of their military
stores. Mareschal Apraxin masked his design by advancing all his irregulars towards the Prussian
army; so that mareschal Lehwald was not informed of it till the third day, when he detached
prince George of Plolstein with ten thousand horse to pursue them but with little hopes of
coming up with them as they made forced marches, in order to be the sooner in their own country.
However, the Prussians took some of them prisoners, and many stragglers were killed by the
country people in their flight towards Tilsit, which they abandoned, though they still kept
Memel, and shortly after added some new fortifications to that place. They made their retreat
in two columns, one of which directed its course towards Memel; while the other took the nearest
way through the bailiwick of Absternen, and threw bridges over the river Jura. Both columns
burnt every village they passed through without distinction. The Prussians were obliged to
desist from the pursuit of these barbarians, because the bridges, thrown over the river Memel,
had been destroyed by the violence of the stream. The Russian army suffered greatly for want
of bread, as all the countries were ruined through which it passed, so that they could procure
no sort of subsistence but herbage and rye-bread. All the roads were strewed with dead bodies
of men and horses. The real cause of this sudden retreat is as great a mystery as the reason
of stopping so long, the year before, on the borders of Lithuania; though the occasion of it
is said to have been the illness of the czarina, who was seized with a kind of apoplectic fit,
and had made some new regulations in case of a vacancy of the throne, which rendered it expedient
that the regular forces should be at hand to support the measures taken by the government.

FRENCH AND IMPERIALISTS TAKE GOTHA.

The king of Prussia, after remaining for some time encamped between Bautzen and Goerlitz, removed
his head-quarters to Bernstedel; and on the fifteenth of August his army came in sight of the
Austrian camp, and within cannon-shot of it: upon which the Austrians struck their tents, and
drew up in order of battle before their camp. The king formed his army over against them, and
immediately went to reconnoitre the ground between the armies; but, as it was then late, he
deferred the more exact examination of that circumstance till the next day. The two armies
continued under arms all night. Next morning at break of day, the king found the Austrians
encamped with their right at the river Weisle; the rest of their army extended along a rising
ground, at the foot of a mountain covered with wood, which protected their left; and before
their front, at the bottom of the hill on which they were drawn up, was a small brook, passable
only in three places, and for no more than four or five men a-breast. Towards the left of their
army was an opening, where three or four battalions might have marched in front; but behind
it they had placed three lines of infantry, and on a hill which flanked this opening, within
musket-shot, were placed four thousand foot, with forty or fifty pieces of cannon; so that,
in reality, this was the strongest part of their camp. The king left nothing undone to bring
the Austrians to battle; but finding them absolutely bent on avoiding it, after lying four
days before them, he and his army returned to their camp at Bernstedel. They were followed
by some of the enemy's hussars and pan-dours, who, however, had not the satisfaction to take
the smallest booty in this retreat. The Austrian army, which thus declined engaging, was, by
their own account, an hundred and thirty thousand strong, more than double the number of the
king of Prussia, who, the day he returned to Bernstedel, after he had retired about two thousand
yards, again drew up his army in line of battle, and remained so upwards of an hour, but not
a man stirred from the Austrian camp. The army of the empire, commanded by the prince of Saxe-Hildburghausen,
and that of the French under the prince de Soubise, making together about fifty thousand men,
half of which were French, had by this time joined, and advanced as far as Erfurth in Saxony;
upon which his Prussian majesty, finding that all his endeavours could not bring the Austrians
to an engagement, set out from Lusatia, accompanied by mareschal Keith, with sixteen battalions
and forty squadrons of his troops, and arrived at Dresden on the twenty-ninth of August, leaving
the rest of the army in a strong camp, under the prince of Bevern. With this detachment, which,
by the junction of several bodies of troops, amounted to about forty thousand men, he made
a quick march, by the way of Leipsic towards Erfurth, to give battle to the united army of
the French and the empire. But by the time he arrived at Erfurth, which was on the fourteenth
of September, the enemy had retreated towards Gotha; and upon his further approach, they retired
to Eyesenach, where they intrenched themselves in a very strong camp. His majesty's headquarters
were at Kirschlaben, near Erfurth. While the two armies were thus situated, major-general Seydelitz,
who occupied the town of Gotha, being informed, on the nineteenth, that a large body of the
enemy was coming towards him, and that it consisted of two regiments of Austrian hussars, one
regiment of French hussars, and a detachment made up of French grenadiers, troops of the army
of the empire, and a great number of croats and pandours, retired, and posted himself at some
distance. The enemy immediately took possession of the town and castle; but general Seydelitz,
having been reinforced, attacked the enemy with such vigour, that he soon obliged them to abandon
this new conquest, and to retire with great precipitation; a report having been spread, that
the Prussian army was advancing against them, with the king himself in person. The Prussian
hussars took a considerable booty on this occasion, and general Seydelitz sent prisoners to
the camp, one lieutenant-colonel, three majors, four lieutenants, and sixty-two soldiers of
the enemy, who had also about an hundred and thirty killed. After this action his Prussian
majesty advanced near Eyesenach, with a design to attack the combined army; but they were so
strongly intrenched, that he found it impracticable. His provisions falling short, he was obliged
to retire towards Erfurth, and soon after to Naumburgh, on the river Sala; whereupon the combined
army inarched, and again took possession of Gotha, Erfurth, and Weiman: which last place, however,
they soon after quitted.

ACTION BETWEEN THE PRUSSIANS AND AUSTRIANS NEAR GOERLITZ.

Upon the king of Prussia's leaving Bernstedel, the Austrians took possession of it on the sixth
of September, and made prisoners a Prussian battalion which had been left there. The next day
fifteen thousand Austrians attacked two battalions of general Winterfield's troops, being part
of the prince of Bevern's army, who were posted on a high ground on the other side of the Neiss,
near Hennersdorff, in the neighbourhood of Goerlitz; and, after being repulsed several times,
at last made themselves masters of the eminence. The loss, in this action, was considerable
on both sides, but greatest on that of the Prussians, not so much by the number of their slain,
which scarcely exceeded that of the Austrians, as by the death of their brave general Win-terfield,
who, as he was leading up succours to the battalions that were engaged, received a shot from
a cannon, of which he died the night following. The-generals Nadasti and Clerici, count d'Arberg,
colonel Elrickhausen, and several other persons of distinction, were wounded, and the young
count of Groesbeck and the marquis d'Asque killed, on the side of the Austrians, who took six
pieces of the Prussian cannon, six pair of their colours, and made general Kemeke, the count
d'Anhalt, and some other officers, prisoners. After this skirmish, the prince of Bevern, with
the Prussian army under his command, retreated from Goerlitz to Rothen-berg, then passed the
Queiss at Sygersdorff, from whence he marched to Buntzlau, in Silesia, and on the first of
October reached Breslau, without suffering any loss, though the numerous army of the Austrians
followed him for some days. Upon his arrival there, he chose a very strong camp on the other
side of the Oder, in order to cover the city of Breslau, to the fortifications of which he
immediately added several new works. Though neither side had any very signal advantage in this
engagement, more than that the Austrians remained masters of the field, yet great rejoicings
were made at Vienna on account of it. The death of general Win-terfield was, indeed, an irreparable
loss to his Prussian majesty, who received at the same time the news of this misfortune, and
of the Swedes having now actually begun hostilities in Pomerania.

THE FRENCH OBLIGE FERDINAND TO RETIRE.

A body of the French, who, let loose against the king of Prussia by the ever-memorable and
shameful convention of Closter-Seven, had entered the territories of Halberstadt and Magdeburgh,
were worsted at Eglen by a party of six hundred men, under the command of count Horn, whom
prince Ferdinand of Brunswick had detached from a body of troops with which his Prussian majesty
had sent him to defend those countries. The Prussians took prisoners the count de Lusignan,
colonel, eighteen other French officers, and four hundred soldiers, and made themselves masters
of a considerable booty in baggage, &c, with the loss of only two men; and, moreover, a French
officer and forty men were made prisoners at Halberstadt. Upon this check the French evacuated
the country of Halberstadt for a little while, but returning again on the twenty-ninth of September,
with a considerable reinforcement from mareschal Richelieu's army, which he now could easily
spare, prince Ferdinand was obliged to retire to Winsleben, near the city of Magdeburgh. The
dangers which had been hitherto kept at a distance from the Prussian dominions, by the surprising
activity of their king, now drew nearer, and menaced them on all sides. Mareschal Richelieu,
with eighty battalions and an hundred squadrons, entered the country of Halberstadt, and levied
immense contributions; whilst the allied army of the French and Imperialists, being joined
by six thousand men under general Laudohn, who had just defeated a regiment of Prussian cavalry
near Erfurt, marched to Weissenfells, a city in the very centre of Thuringia. The Swedes had
actually taken some towns in Pomerania, and were advancing to besiege Stetin, and the Austrians,
who had made themselves masters of Lignitz, and a considerable part of Silesia, had now laid
siege to Schweidnitz, and were preparing to pass the Oder, in order to attack the prince of
Bevern in his camp near Breslau. In the meantime they made frequent and always destructive
incursions into Brandenburgh; to oppose which his Prussian majesty ordered detachments from
all his regiments in those parts to join the militia of the country, and sent the prince of
Anhault-Dessau from Leipsic, with a body of ten thousand men, to guard Berlin, whilst he himself
marched with the troops under his command to Interbeck, on the frontier of the Lower Lusatia,
to be the more at hand to cover Brandenburgh, and to preserve the communication with Silesia.

While these precautions were taking, general Had-dick, with fifteen or sixteen thousand Austrians,
entered Brandenburgh on the sixteenth of October, and the next day arrived before Berlin, of
which city he demanded a contribution of six hundred thousand crowns; but contented himself
with two hundred and ten thousand. The Austrians pillaged two of the suburbs; but before they
could do any further mischief, they were obliged to retire in great haste, at the approach
of the prince of Anhault-Dessau, whose vanguard entered the city in the evening of their departure.
This alarm, however, obliged the queen and the royal family of Prussia to remove to Magdeburgh
on the twenty-third; and the most valuable records were sent to the fort of Spandau, at the
conflux of the Havel and the Sphre. On the other hand, the unfortunate inhabitants of Leipsic
now felt most severely the cruel effects of the power of their new master. The Prussian commandant
in that city had, by order of the king, demanded of them three hundred thousand crowns, a sum
far greater than it was in their power to raise. This truth they represented, but in vain.
The short time allowed them to furnish their contingents being expired, and all their efforts
to comply with this demand having proved ineffectual, they were subjected to the rigours of
military execution; in consequence of which their houses were occupied by the soldiery, who
seized upon the best apartments, and lived at discretion; but the sum demanded could not be
found. Such was the situation of this distressed city, when, on the fifteenth of October, an
express arrived, with advice that his Prussian majesty would soon be there; and accordingly
he arrived a few minutes after, attended by his life-guards. At the same time, a rumour was
spread that the city would be delivered up to pillage, which threw the inhabitants into the
utmost consternation. Their fears, however, in that respect were soon abated, by his majesty's
declaring, that he was willing to spare the place, upon condition that half the sum required
should be immediately paid. All that could be done was to collect among the merchants, traders,
and others, fifty thousand crowns; bills of exchange were drawn upon Amsterdam and London for
seventy thousand crowns, and hostages were given, by way of security, for the payment of thirty
thousand more within a time which was agreed on. But still, notwithstanding this, the military
execution was continued, even with greater rigour than before, and all the comfort the wretched
inhabitants could obtain was, that it should cease whenever advice should be received that
their bills were accepted.

BATTLE OF ROSBACH.

The king of Prussia had tried several times to bring the combined army under the princes Saxe-Hilburghausen
and Soubise to an engagement upon fair ground, but finding them bent on declining it, notwithstanding
the superiority of their numbers, he had recourse to one of those strokes in war, by which
a general is better seen than by the gaining of a victory. He made a feint, soon after the
beginning of October, as if he intended nothing more than to secure his own dominions, and
march his army into winter-quarters back to Berlin, leaving mareschal Keith, with only seven
or eight thousand men, to defend Leipsic. Upon this the enemy took courage, passed the Sala,
and having marched up to the city, summoned the mareschal to surrender; to which he answered,
that the king, his master, had ordered him to defend the place to the last extremity, and he
would obey his orders. The enemy then thought of besieging the city; but, before they could
prepare any one implement for that purpose, they were alarmed by the approach of the king of
Prussia, who, judging that his feint would probably induce them to take the step they did,
had, by previous and private orders, collected together all his distant detachments, some of
which were twenty leagues asunder, and was advancing, by long marches, to Leipsic; upon notice
of which the enemy repassed the Sala. The Prussian army was re-assembled on the twenty-seventh
of October, and remained at Leipsic the twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth, when everybody expected
a battle would be fought in the plains of Lutzen. On the thirtieth, the king drew nigh that
place, and on the thirty-first, in his way through Weissenfells and Meresbourg, he made five
hundred men prisoners of war. The combined army had repassed the Sala at Weissenfells, Meresbourg,
and Halle, where they broke down the bridges; but these were soon repaired, and the whole Prussian
army, amounting to no more than twenty thousand men, having passed that river, through these
towns, in each of which they left a battalion, joined again on the third of November, in the
evening, over against the enemy, whose forces consisted of forty thousand French, and twenty-five
thousand Imperialists. On the fifth, about nine o'clock in the morning, the Prussians received
intelligence that the enemy were every where in motion. They likewise heard the drums beating
the march, and, so near were the two armies to each other, plainly perceived from their camp
that their whole infantry, which had drawn nearer upon the rising grounds over against them,
was filing off towards their right. No certain judgment could, however, yet be formed of the
enemy's real design, and as they were in want of bread, it wras thought probable that they
intended to repass the Un-strut; but it was soon perceived that their several motions were
contradictory to each other. At the same time that some of their infantry were filing off towards
their right, a large body of cavalry wheeled round towards their left, directing its march
all along to the rising grounds with which the whole Prussian camp, that lay in a bottom between
the villages of Eederow and Rosbach, was surrounded within the reach of large cannon. Soon
after that the cavalry were seen to halt, and afterwards to fall back to the right; though
some of them still remained where they were, whilst the rest marched back. About two in the
afternoon the doubts of the Prussians were cleared up; it plainly appearing then that the enemy
intended to attack them, and that their dispositions were made with a view to surround them,
and to open the action by attacking them in the rear. A body of reserve was posted over against
Eederow, to fall upon their routed troops, in case they should be defeated, and to prevent
their retiring to Meresbourg, the only retreat which could then have been left them. In thiss
situation the king of Prussia resolved to attack them. His majesty had determined to make the
attack with one wing only, and the disposition of the enemy made it necessary that it should
be the left wing. The very instant the battle was going to begin, his majesty ordered the general
who commanded the right wing to decline engaging, to take a proper position in consequence
thereof, and, above all, to prevent his being surrounded. All the cavalry of the right wing
of the Prussians, except two or three squadrons, had already marched to the left at full gallop;
and being arrived at the place assigned them, they formed over against that of the enemy. They
then moved on immediately, the enemy advanced to meet them, and the charge was very fierce,
several regiments of the French coming on with great resolution. The advantage, however, was
entirely on the side of the Prussians. The enemy's cavalry being routed, were pursued for a
considerable time with great spirit, but having afterwards reached an eminence, which gave
them an opportunity of rallying, the Prussian cavalry fell upon them afresh, and gave them
so total a defeat, that they fled in the utmost disorder. This happened at four in the afternoon.
Whilst the cavalry of the Prussians charged, their infantry opened. The enemy cannonaded them
briskly during this interval, and did some execution, but the Prussian artillery was not idle.
After this cannonading had continued on both sides a full quarter of an hour, without the least
intermission, the fire of the infantry began. The enemy could not stand it, nor resist the
valour of the Prussian foot, who gallantly marched up to their batteries. The batteries were
carried one after another, and the enemy were forced to give way, which they did in great confusion.
As the left wing of the Prussians advanced, the right changed its position, and having soon
met with a small rising ground, they availed themselves of it, by planting it with sixteen
pieces of heavy artillery. The fire from thence was partly pointed at the enemy's right, to
increase the disorder there, and took their left wing in front, which was excessively galled
thereby. At five the victory was decided, the cannonading ceased, and the enemy fled on all
sides. They were pursued as long as there was any light to distinguish them, and it may be
said, that night alone was the preservation of this army, which had been so formidable in the
morning. They took the benefit of the darkness to hurry into Fribourg, and there to repass
the Unstrut, which they did on the morning of the sixth, after a whole night's inarch. The
king of Prussia set out early in the morning to pursue them with all his cavalry, supported
by four battalions of grenadiers, the infantry following them in two columns. The enemy had
passed the Unstrut at Fribourg, when the Prussians arrived on its banks, and as they had burnt
the bridge, it became necessary to make another, which, however, was soon done. The cavalry
passed first, but could not come up with the enemy till five in the evening, upon the hills
of Eckersberg. It was then too late to force them there, for which reason the king thought
proper to canton his army in the nearest villages, and to be satisfied with the success his
hussars had in taking near three hundred baggage waggons, and every thing they contained. The
whole loss of the Prussians in this important engagement, did not exceed five hundred men killed
and wounded. Among the former was general Meincke, and among the latter prince Henry and general
Seydelitz. The enemy lost sixty-four pieces of cannon, a great many standards and colours,
near three thousand men killed on the field of battle, and upwards of eight thousand taken
prisoners, among whom were several generals, and other officers of distinction. Three hundred
waggons were sent to Leipsic, laden with wounded French and Swiss. Upon the approach of the
Prussians towards Eckersberg, the enemy retreated with great precipitation; and, after marching
all night, arrived the next day at Erfurth, in the utmost want of every necessary of life,
not having had a morsel of bread for two days, during which they had been obliged to live upon
turnips, radishes, and other roots, which they dug out of the earth. The French, under the
duke de Richelieu, were preparing to go into winter-quarters; but, upon the news of this defeat
of the combined army, they again put themselves in motion, and a large detachment of them advanced
as far as Duderstadt, to favour the retreat of their countrymen under the prince de Soubise,
who, with great precipitancy, made the best of their way from Erfurth to the county of Hohenstein,
and from thence bent their march towards Halberstadt. Of the remains of the imperial army,
which was now almost entirely dispersed, whole bodies deserted, and went over to the king of
Prussia soon after the battle.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE AUSTRIANS TAKE SCHWEIDNITZ.

Whilst his Prussian majesty was thus successful against the French and Imperialists, the Austrians,
who had carefully avoided coming to an open engagement with him, gained ground apace in Silesia.
A detachment of their army, under the command of count Nadasti, had already invested Schweidnitz,
and opened the trenches before it on the twenty-sixth of October. The Prussian garrison, commanded
by general de la Motte Fouquet, determined to defend the place as long as possible; and accordingly
on the thirtieth they made a sally, in which they killed, wounded, and took prisoners, eight
hundred of the besiegers, and did some damage to their works; but on the sixth of November
the Austrians began to cannonade the city furiously, and on the eleventh made themselves masters
of the ramparts by assault. The garrison, however, having taken care, during the siege, to
throw up a strong in-trenchment in the market-place, retreated thither, and held out till the
next day, when they surrendered themselves prisoners of war. After the reduction of this place,
general Nadasti, leaving in it a sufficient garrison, marched with the remainder of his troops,
and joined the main army of the Austrians, under the command of prince Charles of Lorraine
and mareschal Daun, who, whilst he was busied in the siege of Schweidnitz, had invested Breslau
on the left of the Oder; the prince of Bevern defending it on the right, where he was strongly
encamped, with his little army, under the cannon of the city. The whole army of the Austrians
being now re-assembled, and intelligence having been brought not only of the king of Prussia's
late victory near Leipsic, but also that he was advancing to the relief of the prince of Bevern,
it was resolved immediately to attack the last in his intrenchments. Accordingly, on the twenty-second
of November, about nine in the morning, the Austrians began a most furious discharge of their
cannon, forty of which were twenty-four pounders, and this continued without ceasing till one,
when it was succeeded by a severe fire of their small arms, which lasted till five in the evening.
The Prussians, with undaunted resolution, stood two of the most violent attacks that were ever
made; but at the third, overpowered by numbers, and assailed on both sides, they began to lose
ground, and were forced to retire from one intrenchment to another. In this extremity, night
coming on, the Prussian generals fearing their intrenchments would be entirely forced, and
that they should then be totally defeated, thought proper to retreat. The prince of Bevern,
with the greatest part of the army, retired to an eminence on the banks of the Oder, whilst
the rest of the troops threw themselves into Breslau, which they might have defended, in all
probability, till the king had come to its relief. But, on the twenty-fourth, their commander-in-chief,
the prince of Bevern, going to reconnoitre the enemy, with only a single groom to attend him,
fell in among a party of croats, who took him prisoner.*

     * We are told, that he mistook these croats for Prussian
     hussars. But some of the circumstances of this mysterious
     affair were interpreted into a premeditated design in the
     prince to be taken prisoner. It cannot otherwise he supposed
     that a man of his rank, a prince, a commander-in-chief,
     should officiously undertake the always dangerous task of
     reconnoitering the enemy with so slight an attendance as
     only one man, and that but a groom, even if he had judged it
     necessary to see things with his own eyes. Some secret
     dissatisfaction, hitherto unknown to us, may possibly have
     been the cause of his taking this step; or, which seems
     still more probable, he might he ashamed, or, perhaps, even
     afraid, to see the king his master, after having so
     injudiciously abandoned the defence of Breslau, by quitting
     his lines, which, it is asserted, his Prussian majesty had
     sent him express orders not to quit on any account whatever,
     for that he would certainly be with him by the fifth of
     December, in which we shall find he kept his word.

His army, thus deprived of their general, retreated northward that night, leaving in Breslau
only four battalions, who, the next day, surrendered the place by capitulation, one of the
articles of which was, that they should not serve against the empress, or her allies, for two
years. All the magazines, chests, artillery, &c, remained in the hands of the Austrians. The
garrison marched out with all military honours, conducted by general Leswitz, governor of Breslau.
Though the Austrians sung Te Deum for this victory, they owned that such another would put
an end to their army, for it cost them the lives of twelve thousand men; a number almost equal
to the whole of the Prussian army before the battle. They had four almost inaccessible intrenchments
to force, planted thick with cannon, which fired cartridge shot from nine in the morning till
the evening, and the Prussians, when attacked, were never once put into the least confusion.
Among the slain on the side of the Austrians, were general Wurben, and several other officers
of distinction. The loss of the Prussians did not much exceed three thousand men, in killed,
wounded, and prisoners, of which last there were about sixteen hundred. Their general Kleist
was found dead on the field of battle.

MARESCHAL KEITH LAYS BOHEMIA UNDER CONTRIBUTION.

The king of Prussia, who, like Caesar, thought nothing was done while any thing was left undone,
stayed no longer at Rosbach than till the routed forces of the French and Imperialists, whom
he had defeated there on the fifth of November, were totally dispersed. Then he marched directly
with the greatest part of his army for Silesia, and on the twenty-fourth of that month arrived
at Naumburgh on the Queiss, a little river which runs into the Bobber, having in his route
detached mareschal Keith, with the rest of his army, to clear Saxony from all the Austrian
parties, and then to make an irruption into Bohemia, a service which he performed so effectually,
as to raise large contributions in the circles of Satz and Leitmeritz, and even to give an
alarm to Prague itself. His majesty reserved for himself only fifteen thousand men, with whom
he advanced, with his usual rapidity, to Barchweitz, where, notwithstanding all that had happened
at Schweidnitz and at Breslau, he was joined by twenty-four thousand more; part of them troops
which he had ordered from Saxony, part the remains of the army lately commanded by the prince
of Bevern, and part the late garrison of Schweidnitz, which had found means to escape from
the Austrians, and accidentally joined their king upon his march.*

     * While the Austrians were conducting them to prison, on
     their route they chanced to hear of the victory their master
     had gained at Rosbach. Animated by these tidings, they
     unanimously rose upon the escort that guarded them, which
     happening not to be very strong, they entirely dispersed.
     Thus freed, they marched on, not very certain of their way,
     in hopes to rejoin some corps of the Prussian troops, their
     countrymen. The same fortune which freed them led them
     directly to the army commanded by the king himself, which
     was hastening to their relief, as well as to that of the
     prince of Bevern. This unexpected meeting was equally
     pleasing to both, the prisoners not having heard any thing
     of his majesty's march; and, at the same time, this lucky
     incident, whilst it added a considerable strength to the
     army, added likewise to its confidence, for the slightest
     occurrence is construed into an omen by an army at the eve
     of an engagement.

With this force, though greatly inferior in number to that of the enemy, he resolved to attack
the Austrians, who were intrenched at Lissa, near Breslau. On the fourth of December he seized
upon their ovens at Neu-marck, and upon a considerable magazine, guarded by two regiments of
croats, who retired to a rising ground, where his majesty ordered his hussars to surround them,
and send a trumpet to summon them to surrender themselves prisoners of war. Upon their refusal,
the hussars of Ziethen fell upon them sabre in hand, and some hundreds of them having been
cut in pieces, the rest threw down their arms, begging for quarter on their knees. After this
seizure, and after having distributed to his army the bread prepared for his enemies, he began
again the next morning his march towards Lissa. General Ziethen, who led the vanguard of light-horse,
about seven in the morning fell in with a body of Austrian hussars, and three regiments of
Saxon dragoons, which were the very best cavalry the enemy had left after the battle of the
twenty-second. They had been detached by the Austrians, in order to retard the king's march,
and to conceal their own, till their batteries should be completed; for, as they held the small
number of the Prussians in contempt, their intention was to have met the king two German miles
from their intrenchments. The Austrian cavalry having been vigorously repulsed to a considerable
distance, general Ziethen perceived that their whole army was forming. He immediately acquainted
the king with what he had discovered, and his majesty, after having himself observed the disposition
of the enemy, made his own with that sagacity and despatch for which he has always been remarkable.
The action began by attacking a battery of forty pieces of large cannon, which covered the
right wing of the enemy. The two battalions of guards, with the regiments of the margrave Charles
and of Itzenplitz, marched up amidst a most terrible fire to the very mouths of the cannon,
with their bayonets screwed. In this attack the Prussians sustained their greatest loss, though
the battery was carried as soon almost as they could reach it; then the enemy's artillery,
now turned against themselves, played furiously upon them with their own powder. From that
instant the two wings and the centre of the Prussians continued to drive the enemy before them,
advancing all the time with that firm and regular pace for which they have always been renowned,
without ever halting or giving way. The ground which the Austrians occupied was very advantageous,
and every circumstance that could render it more so had been improved to the utmost by the
diligence and skill of count Daun, who, remembering his former success, was emboldened to enter
the lists again with his royal antagonist. The Prussians, however, no way terrified by the
enemy's situation nor their numbers, went calmly and dreadfully forward. It was almost impossible
in the beginning for the Prussian cavalry to act, on account of the impediments of fallen trees,
which the enemy had cut down and laid in the field of battle, to retard their approach; but
a judicious disposition which the king made overcame that disadvantage. When he first formed
his army, he had placed four battalions behind the cavalry of his right wing, foreseeing that
general Nadasti, who was placed with a corps of reserve on the enemy's left, designed to take
him in flank. It happened as he had foreseen, this general's horse attacked the king's right
wing with great fury; but he was received with so severe a fire from the four battalions, that
he was obliged to retire in disorder. The enemy gave way on all sides; out at some distance
recovered themselves, and rallied three times, animated by their officers, and by the superiority
of their numbers. Every time they made a stand, the Prussians attacked them with redoubled
vigour, and with success equal to their bravery. Towards night, the enemy, still retreating,
fell into disorder. Their two wings fled in confusion; one of them, closely pressed by the
king, retired towards Breslau, and took shelter under the cannon of that city; the other, pursued
by the greatest part of the light cavalry, took their flight towards Canth and Schweidnitz.
Six thousand Austrians fell in this engagement, and the Prussians, who had only five hundred
men killed, and two thousand three hundred wounded, made upwards of ten thousand of the enemy
prisoners, among whom were two hundred and ninety-one officers. They took also an hundred and
sixteen cannon, fifty-one colours and standards, and four thousand waggons of ammunition and
baggage. The consequences that followed this victory declared its importance. Future ages will
read with astonishment, that the same prince, who but a few months before seemed on the verge
of inevitable ruin, merely by the dint of his own abilities, without the assistance of any
friend whatever, with troops perpetually harassed by long and painful marches, and by continual
skirmishes and battles, not only retrieved his affairs, which almost every one, except himself,
thought past redress; but, in the midst of winter, in countries where it was judged next to
impossible for any troops to keep the field at that season, conquered the united force of France
and the empire at Rosbach, on the fifth of November; and on the same day of the very next month,
with a great part of the same army, was at Lissa, where he again triumphed over all the power
of the house of Austria. Pursuing his advantage, he immediately invested Breslau, and within
two days after this great victory every thing was in readiness to besiege it in form. His troops,
flushed with success, were at first for storming it, but the king, knowing the strength of
the garrison, which consisted of upwards of thirteen thousand men, and considering both the
fatigues which his own soldiers had lately undergone, and the fatal consequences that might
ensue, should they fail of success in this attempt, ordered the approaches to be carried on
in the usual form. His commands were obeyed, and Breslau surrendered to him on the twentieth
of December in the morning. The garrison, of which ten thousand bore arms, and between three
and four thousand lay sick or wounded, were made prisoners of war. Fourteen of these prisoners
were officers of high rank. The military chest, a vast treasure, with eighty pieces of cannon,
fell into the hands of the victors, who lost only about twenty men in their approaches. During
the siege, a magazine of powder was set on fire by a bomb, which occasioned great confusion
among the besieged, and damaged one of the bastions. The strong fortress of Schweidnitz still
remained in the enemy's possession, defended by a garrison so numerous, that it might be compared
to a small army, and whilst that continued so, the king of Prussia's victories in Silesia were
of no decisive effect. For this reason, though it was now the dead of winter, and the soldiers
stood in need of repose, his majesty resolved, if possible, to become master of that place
before the end of the year; but as a close siege was impracticable, a blockade was formed,
as strictly as the rigour of the season would permit.*

     * Such was the rigour of the season, that some hundreds of
     the sentinels dropped down dead on their several posts,
     unable to sustain the severity of the cold. The Germans lie
     under the general reproach of paying very little regard to
     the lives of their soldiers, and indeed this practice of
     winter campaigns, in such a cold country, bespeaks very
     little regard to the dictates of humanity.

It was not, however, till the beginning of the ensuing campaign that this place was taken.
The Prussians opened their trenches before it on the third of April, one thousand seven hundred
and fifty-eight, and erected two large batteries, which kept a continual fire upon the town.
The artillery of the besiegers consisted of three hundred pieces of cannon, of different dimensions,
and eighty mortars; an amazing artillery, and such as we have never heard of in former campaigns.
On the night of the fourteenth, the Prussians carried one of the chief works by assault, and
lodged themselves therein: the commandant capitulated the next day, with the garrison, which
was now greatly reduced in number, being not half of what it amounted to at the beginning of
the blockade. Thus, all the parts of Silesia which the king of Prussia had lost by one unfortunate
blow, fell again into his possession; and his affairs, which but a few months before seemed
irretrievable, were now re-established upon a firmer basis than ever. The Prussian parties
not only re-possessed themselves of those parts of Silesia which belonged to their king, but
penetrated into the Austrian division, reduced Jagerndorf, Troppau, Tretchen, and several other
places, and left the empress-queen scarce any footing in that country, in which, a few days
before, she reckoned her dominion perfectly established.

HOSTILITIES of the SWEDES in POMERANIA.

The Swedes, after many debates between their king and senate, had at length resolved upon an
open declaration against the king of Prussia, and, in consequence of that resolution, sent
so many troops into Pomerania, that by the end of August, their army in that country amounted
to twenty-five thousand men. Their first act of hostility was the seizure of Anclam and Dem-min,
two towns that lay in the way to Stetin, against which their principal design was levelled.
But before they proceeded farther, general Hamilton, their commander, by way of justifying
the conduct of his master, published a declaration, setting forth, "That the king of Sweden,
as guarantee of the treaty of Westphalia, could not help sending his troops into the upper
part of the duchy of Pomerania belonging to the king of Prussia; and that, therefore, all the
officers appointed to receive the public revenue in that country must pay what money they had
in their hands to him, who was commissioned to receive it for his Swedish majesty; that, moreover,
an exact account was required, within eight days, of the revenues of the country; but that
no more than ordinary contributions would be demanded of the inhabitants, who might rest assured
that the Swedish troops should observe the strictest discipline." After this declaration, they
attacked the little fortress of Penemunde, upon the river Pene, and on the twenty-third of
September, after a siege of nine days, obliged the garrison, which consisted only of militia,
to surrender themselves prisoners of war. This alternative the commanding officer chose, rather
than engage not to serve for two years, observing, that such an engagement was inconsistent
with his honour, whilst his prince had so much occasion for his service; and the Swedish general,
touched with this noble way of thinking, was, on his part, so generous as to give him his liberty.
On the other hand, general Manteuffel, who commanded the Prussian forces then in Pomerania,
amounting to twelve thousand men, with whom he was encamped before Stetin, to cover that place,
published in answer to this a declaration, enjoining the inhabitants of Pomerania to remain
faithful to the king of Prussia, their lawful sovereign, under pain of incurring his just indignation,
and absolutely forbidding them to pay any regard to the Swedish manifesto.

In the meantime, maresehal Lehwald, immediately after the battle of Norkitten, when the Russians
began their retreat, detached prince George of Holstein-Got-torp, with a considerable body
of forces, to the relief of Pomerania; and, shortly after, the Russian forces having totally
evacuated every part of Prussia, except Memel, and most of them being actually gone into winter-quarters,
he himself followed with an additional reinforcement of sixteen thousand men. Upon his approach,
the Swedes, who were then encamped at Ferdinandshoff, and had begun to fill up the harbour
of Swinnemunde, by way of previous preparation for the siege of Stetin, retired with such precipitation,
that they did not allow themselves time to draw off a little garrison they had at Wollin, consisting
of two hundred and ten men, who were made prisoners of war. Dem-min was cannonaded by the Prussians
on the twenty-ninth of December; and the Swedes having lost one officer and forty men, desired
to capitulate. As, in order to ease the troops, it was not thought proper to continue the siege
in so sharp a season, their request was granted, and they had leave to retire with two pieces
of cannon. The Prussians took possession of the town on the second day of January, after the
Swedes had, on the thirtieth of December, likewise given up Anclam, where the conquerors took
an hundred and fifty prisoners, and found a considerable magazine of provisions and ammunition.
Maresehal Lehwald then passed the Pene, entered Swedish Pomerania, and reduced Gutzkow, Loitz,
Tripsus, and Nebringen. At the same time, lieutenant-general Schorlemmer passed with his corps
from the isle of Wollin into the isle of Usedom, and from thence to Wolgast, the Swedes having
abandoned this town, as well as Schwinemunde, and the fort of Penemunde. The prince of Holstein
advanced as far as Grimm and Grieffwalde, and the Swedes, losing one town after another, till
they had nothing left in Pomerania but the port of Stralsund, continued retreating till they
had reached this last place. The French party in Sweden, to comfort the people, called this
retreat, or rather flight, going into winter-quarters. The Prussian hussars were not idle wherever
they penetrated; for, besides plundering and pillaging, they raised a contribution of an hundred
and sixty thousand crowns in Swedish Pomerania. The Mecklenburghers, who had joined the Swedes
with six thousand of their troops, now found cause to repent of their forwardness, being left
quite exposed to the resentment of the victors, who chastised them with the most severe exactions.
The army of the Swedes, though they did not fight a battle, was, by sickness, desertion, and
other accidents, reduced to half the number it consisted of when they took the field. The landgrave
of Hesse-Cassel, soon after his territories were invaded by the French, in consequence of their
advantage in the affair of Hastenbeck, had applied to the king of Sweden, as one of the guarantees
of the treaty of Westphalia, desiring him to employ his good offices with the court of France,
to obtain a more favourable treatment for his dominions; but his Swedish majesty, by the advice
of the senate, thought proper to refuse complying with this request, alleging, that as the
crown of Sweden was one of the principal guarantees of the treaty of Westphalia, it would be
highly improper to take such a step in favour of a prince who had not only broke the laws and
constitution of the empire, in refusing to furnish his contingent, but had even assisted, with
his troops, a power known to be its declared enemy. The Aulic council too, seeing, or pretending
to see, the behaviour of the landgrave in the same light, issued a decree against his serene
highness towards the end of this year.

MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE DUTCH.

The court of Great Britain, justly displeased with the Dutch, on account of the extreme facility
with which they had granted the French a free passage through Namur and Maestricht for their
provisions, ammunition, and artillery, in the beginning of this campaign, had very properly
remonstrated against that step, before it-was absolutely resolved on, or at least declared
to be so; but in vain; a pusillanimous answer being all the satisfaction that was obtained.
The tameness and indifference with which the states-general has since seen Os-tend and Nieuport
put into the hands of the French, drew upon their high mightinesses a further remonstrance,
which was delivered to them on the twenty-eighth of November of this year by colonel Yorke,
his Britannic majesty's plenipotentiary at the Hague, in the following terms, well calculated
to awaken in them a due sense of their own danger, as well as to evince the injustice of the
proceedings of the house of Austria:--Considering the critical situation which Europe has been
in during the course of this year, in consequence of measures concerted to embroil all Europe,
the king of Great Britain was willing to flatter himself that the courts of Vienna and Versailles,
out of regard to the circumspect conduct observed by your high mightinesses, would have at
least informed you of the changes they have thought proper to make in the Austrian Netherlands.
It was with the utmost surprise the king heard, that without any previous consent of yours,
and almost without giving you any notice, the court of Vienna had thought proper to put the
towns of Ostend and Nieuport into the hands of the French troops, and to withdraw her own,
as well as her artillery and stores, whilst France continues to send thither a formidable quantity
of both. The conduct of the court of Vienna towards his majesty is indeed so unmerited and
so extraordinary, that it is difficult to find words to express it; but whatever fallacious
pretexts she may have made use of to palliate her behaviour towards England, it doth not appear
that they can be extended so far as to excuse the infringement, in concert with France, of
the most solemn treaties between her and your high mightinesses. The king never doubted that
your high mightinesses would have made proper representations to the two courts newly allied,
to demonstrate the injustice of such a proceeding, and the danger that might afterwards result
from it. Your high mightinesses will have perceived that your silence on the first step encouraged
the two courts, newly allied, to attempt others, and who can say where they will stop? The
pretext at first was, the need which the empress-queen stood in of the troops for the war kindled
in the empire, and the necessity of providing for the safety of those important places, and
afterwards of their imaginary danger from England. But, high and mighty lords, it is but too
evident that the two powers who have taken these measures in concert, have other projects in
view, and have made new regulations with regard to that country, which cannot but alarm the
neighbouring states. The late demand made to your high mightinesses, of a passage for a large
train of warlike implements through some of the barrier towns, in order to be sent to Ostend
and Nieuport, could not fail to awaken the king's attention. The sincere friendship, and parity
of interests, of Great Britain and Holland, require that they should no longer keep silence,
lest in the issue it should be considered as a tacit consent, and as a relinquishment of all
our rights. The king commands me, therefore, to recall to your high mightinesses the two-fold
right you have acquired to keep the Austrian Netherlands under the government of the house
of Austria; and that no other has a title to make the least alteration therein, without the
consent of your high mightinesses; unless the new allies have resolved to set aside all prior
treaties, and to dispose at pleasure of everything that may suit their private interest. In
the treaty between your high mightinesses and the crown of France, signed at Utrecht on the
eleventh of April, one thousand seven hundred and thirteen, in the fifteenth article are these
words: "It is also agreed, that no province, fort, town, or city of the said Netherlands, or
of those which are given up by his catholic majesty, shall ever be ceded, transferred, or given,
or shall ever devolve to the crown of France, or any prince or princess of the house or line
of France, either by virtue of any gift, exchange, marriage contract, succession by will, or
by any other title whatever, to the power and authority of the most christian king, or of any
prince or princess of the house or line of France." In the barrier-treaty these very stipulations
are repeated in the first article: "His imperial and catholic majesty promises and engages,
that no province, city, town, fortress, or territory of the said country, shall be ceded, transferred,
given, or devolve to the crown of France, or to any other but the successor of the German dominions
of the house of Austria, either by donation, sale, exchange, marriage-contract, heritage, testamentary
succession, nor under any other pretext whatsoever; so that no province, town, fortress, or
territory of the said Netherlands shall ever be subject to any other prince, but to the successor
of the states of the house of Austria alone, excepting what has been yielded by the present
treaty to the said lords the states-general. A bare reading of these two articles is sufficient
to evince all that I have just represented to your high mightinesses: and whatever pretext
the courts of Vienna and Versailles may allege, to cover the infraction of these treaties,
the thing remains nevertheless evident, whilst these two courts are unable to prove that the
towns of Ostend and Nieuport are not actually in the power of France. If their designs are
just, or agreeable to those treaties, they will doubtless not scruple, in the least, to make
your high mightinesses easy on that head, by openly explaining themselves to a quiet and pacific
neighbour, and by giving you indisputable proofs of their intentions to fulfil the stipulations
of the said two treaties with regard to the Netherlands. The king hath so much confidence in
the good sense, prudence, and friendship of your high mightinesses, that he makes not the least
doubt of your taking the most efficacious measures to clear up an affair of such importance;
and of your being pleased, in concert with his majesty, to watch over the fate of a country
whose situations and independence have, for more than a century, been regarded as one of the
principal supports of your liberty and commerce." It does not appear that this remonstrance
had the desired effect upon the states-general, who were apprehensive of embroiling themselves
with an enemy so remarkably alert in taking all advantages. The truth is, they were not only
unprepared for a rupture with France, but extremely unwilling to forego the commercial profits
which they derived from their neutrality.

The king of Prussia, about this period, began to harbour a suspicion that certain other powers
longed eagerly to enjoy the same respite from the dangers and inconveniences of war, and that
he ran the risk of being abandoned by his sole patron and ally, who seemed greatly alarmed
at his defeat in Bohemia, and desirous of detaching himself from a connexion which might be
productive of the most disagreeable consequences to his continental interest. Stimulated by
this opinion, his Prussian majesty is said to have written an expostulatory letter [433] [See
note 3 L, at the end of this Vol.] to the king of Great Britain, in which he very plainly taxes
that monarch with having instigated him to commence hostilities; and insists upon his remembering
the engagements by which he was so solemnly bound. From the strain of this letter, and the
Prussian king's declaration to the British minister when he first set out for Saxony, importing
that he was going to fight the king of England's battles, a notion was generally conceived
that those two powers had agreed to certain private pacts or conventions, the particulars of
which have not yet transpired. Certain it is, a declaration was delivered to the Prussian resident
at London, which appears to have been calculated as an answer to the letter. In that paper
the king of Great Britain declared, that the overtures made by his majesty's electoral ministers
in Germany, touching the checks received on the continent, should have no influence on his
majesty as king; that he saw, in the same light as before, the pernicious effects of the union
between the courts of Vienna and Versailles, threatning a subversion of the whole system of
public liberty, and of the independence of the European powers; that he considered as a fatal
consequence of this dangerous connexion, the cession made by the court of Vienna of the ports
in the Netherlands to France, in such a critical situation, and contrary to the faith of the
most solemn treaties; that, whatever might be the success of his arms, his majesty was determined
to act in constant concert with the king of Prussia in employing the most efficacious means
to frustrate the unjust and oppressive designs of their common enemies. He concluded with assuring
the king of Prussia, that the British crown would continue to fulfil, with the greatest punctuality,
its engagements with his Prussian majesty, and to support him with firmness and vigour. Such
a representation could not fail of being agreeable to a prince, who, at this juncture, stood
in need of an extraordinary cordial. He knew he could securely depend, not only on the good
faith of an English ministry, but also on the good plight of the British nation, which, like
an indulgent nurse, hath always presented the nipple to her meagre German allies. Those, however,
who pretended to consider and canvas events, without prejudice and prepossession, could not
help owning their surprise at hearing an alliance stigmatized as pernicious to the system of
public liberty, and subversive of the independence of the European powers, as they remembered
that this alliance was the effect of necessity, to which the house of Austria was reduced for
its own preservation; reduced, as its friends and partisans affirm, by those very potentates
that now reproached her with these connexions.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

DISPUTES CONCERNING THE CONVENTION OF CLOSTER-SEVEN.

His Britannic majesty was resolved that the king of Prussia should have no cause to complain
of his indifference, whatever reasons he had to exclaim against the convention of Closter-Seven,
which he did not scruple to condemn as a very scandalous capitulation, as much as he disapproved
of the conduct, in consequence of which near forty thousand men were so shamefully disarmed,
and lost to his cause. Those stipulations also met with a very unfavourable reception in England,
where the motions of the allied army, in their retreat before the enemy, were very freely censured,
and some great names exposed to the ridicule and contempt of the public. This event, so singular
in itself, and so important in its consequences, attracted the attention of the privy-council,
where it is said to have been canvassed with great warmth and animosity of altercation. The
general complained that he was restricted by peremptory orders from the regency of Hanover;
and they were reported to have used recriminations in their defence. In all probability, every
circumstance of the dispute was not explained to the satisfaction of all parties, inasmuch
as that great commander quitted the harvest of military glory, and, like another Cincinnatus,
retired to his plough. The convention of Closter-Seven was equally disagreeable to the courts
of London and Versailles. The former saw the electorate of Hanover left, by this capitulation,
at the mercy of the enemy, who had taken possession of the whole country, seized the revenues,
exacted contributions, and changed the whole form of government, in the name of his most christian
majesty; whilst the French army, which had been employed in opposing the Hanoverian, was now
at liberty to throw their additional force into the scale against the king of Prussia, who,
at that period, seemed to totter on the verge of destruction. On the other hand, the French
ministry thought their general had granted too favourable terms to a body of forces, whom he
had cooped up in such a manner that, in a little time, they must have surrendered at discretion.
They, therefore, determined either to provoke the Hanoverians by ill usage to an infraction
of the treaty, or, should that be found impracticable, renounce it as an imperfect convention,
established without proper authority. Both expedients were used without reserve. They were
no sooner informed of the capitulation, than they refused to acknowledge its validity, except
on condition that the Hanoverian troops should formally engage to desist from all service against
France and her allies during the present war, and be disarmed on their return to their own
country. At the same time her general, who commanded in the electorate, exhausted the country
by levying exorbitant contributions, and connived at such outrages as degraded his own dignity,
and reflected disgrace on the character of his nation. The court of London, to make a merit
of necessity, affected to consider the conventional act as a provisional armistice, to pave
the way for a negotiation that might terminate in a general peace, and proposals were offered
for that purpose; but the French ministry kept aloof, and seemed resolved that the electorate
of Hanover should be annexed to their king's dominions. At least, they were bent upon keeping
it as a precious depositum, which, in the plan of a general pacification, they imagined, would
counterbalance any advantage that Great Britain might obtain in other parts of the world. Had
they been allowed to keep this deposit, the kingdom of Great Britain would have saved about
twenty millions of money, together with the lives of her best soldiers; and Westphalia would
have continued to enjoy all the blessings of security and peace. But the king of England's
tenderness for Hanover was one of the chief sources of the misfortunes which befel the electorate.
He could not bear the thoughts of seeing it, even for a season, in the hands of the enemy;
and his own sentiments in this particular were reinforced by the pressing remonstrances of
the Prussian monarch, whom, at this juncture, he thought it dangerous to disoblige. Actuated
by these motives, he was pleased to see the articles of the convention so palpably contravened,
because the violation unbound his hands, and enabled him, consistently with good faith, to
take effectual steps for the assistance of his ally, and the recovery of his own dominions.
He, therefore, in quality of elector of Brunswick-Lunen-burgh, published a declaration, observing,
"That his royal highness the duke of Cumberland had, on his part, honestly fulfilled all the
conditions of the convention; but the duke de Richelieu demanded that the troops should enter
into an engagement specified above, and lay down their arms; although it was expressly stipulated
in the convention, that they should not be regarded as prisoners of war, under which quality
alone they could be disarmed: that the French court pretended to treat the convention as a
military regulation only; and, indeed, it was originally nothing more; but as they had expressly
disowned its validity, and a negotiation had been actually begun for disarming the auxiliaries,
upon certain conditions, though the French general would never answer categorically, but waited
always for fresh instructions from Versailles, the nature of that act was totally changed,
and what was at first an agreement between general and general, was now become a matter of
state between the two courts of London and Versailles: that, however hard the conditions of
the convention appeared to be for the troops of Hanover, his Britannic majesty would have acquiesced
in them, had not the French glaringly discovered their design of totally ruining his army and
his dominions; and, by the most outrageous conduct, freed his Britannic majesty from every
obligation under which he had been laid by the contention: that, in the midst of the armistice,
the most open hostilities had been committed; the castle of Schartzfels had been forcibly seized
and pillaged, and the garrison made prisoners of war; the prisoners made by the French before
the convention had not been restored, according to an express article stipulated between the
generals, though it had been fulfilled on the part of the electorate, by the immediate release
of the French prisoners; the bailies of those districts, from which the French troops were
excluded by mutual agreement, had been summoned, on pain of military execution, to appear before
the French commissary, and compelled to deliver into his hands the public revenue: the French
had appropriated to themselves part of those magazines, which, by express agreement, were destined
for the use of the electoral troops; and they had seized the houses, revenue, and corn, belonging
to the king of England in the city of Bremen, in violation of their engagement to consider
that city as a place absolutely free and neutral. Pie took notice, that they had proceeded
to menaces unheard of among civilized people, of burning, sacking, and destroying every thing
that fell in their way, should the least hesitation be made in executing the convention according
to their interpretation."--Such were the professed considerations that determined his Britannic
majesty to renounce the agreement which they had violated, and have recourse to arms for the
relief of his subjects and allies. It was in consequence of this determination that he conferred
the command of his electoral army on prince Ferdinand of Brunswick, brother to the duke of
that name, who had distinguished himself in the Prussian army by his great military talents,
and was, by blood and inclination, as well as interest, supposed warmly attached to his Britannic
majesty. The truth is, the king of Prussia recommended him to this command, because he knew
he could depend upon his concurring with all his measures, in conducting the operations of
the British army. The duke de Richelieu was no sooner informed of these particulars, than he
sent a letter to prince Ferdinand, specifying, "That although for some days he had perceived
the Hanoverian troops in motion, in order to form themselves into a body, he could not imagine
the object of these movements was to infringe the convention of neutrality which had been established
between the duke of Cumberland and himself, as French general; that he was blinded so far by
his confidence in the good faith of the elector of Hanover, who had signed that convention,
as to believe the troops were assembled for no other purpose than to be distributed into winter-quarters,
which had been assigned them by the agreement; but his eyes were at last opened by repeated
advices which he had received from all quarters, importing, that the Hanoverians intended to
infringe those articles which ought to be sacred and inviolable; he affirmed, the king his
master was still willing to give fresh proofs of his moderation, and his desire to spare the
effusion of human blood: with that view he declared to his serene highness, in the name of
his most christian majesty, that he persisted in his resolution of fulfilling exactly all the
points of the convention, provided that they should be equally observed by the Hanoverian army;
but he could not help apprising his serene highness, that if this army should take any equivocal
step, and, still more, should it commit any act of hostility, he would then push matters to
the last extremity, looking upon himself as authorized so to do by the rules of war: that he
would set fire to all palaces, houses, and gardens; sack all the towns and villages, without
sparing the most inconsiderable cottage, and subject the country to all the horrors of war
and devastation. He conjured his serene highness to reflect on these particulars, and begged
he would not lay him under the necessity of taking steps so contrary to his own personal character,
as well as to the natural humanity of the French nation." To this letter, which was seconded
by the count de Lynar, the Danish ambassador, who had mediated the convention, prince Ferdinand
returned a very laconic answer, intimating, that he would give the duke de Richelieu his answer
in person at the head of his army. At this particular juncture, the French general was disposed
to abide by the original articles of the convention, rather than draw upon himself the hostilities
of an army which he knew to be brave, resolute, and well appointed, and which he saw at present
animated with an eager desire of wiping out the disgrace they had sustained by the capitulation,
as well as of relieving their country from the grievous oppression wider which it groaned.

PROGRESS OF THE HANOVERIAN ARMY.

About the latter end of November, the Hanoverian army was wholly assembled at Stade, under
the auspices of prince Ferdinand, who resolved without delay to drive the French from the electorate,
whither they now began their march. Part of the enemy's rear, consisting of two thousand men,
was, in their march back to Zell, attacked in the bailiwick of Ebstorff, and entirely defeated
by general Schuylenbourg; and, in a few days after this action, another happened upon the river
Aller, between two considerable bodies of each army, in which the Hanoverians, commanded by
general Zastrow, remained masters of the field. These petty advantages served to encourage
the allies, and put them in possession of Lunen-burgh, Zell, and part of the Brunswick dominions,
which the enemy were obliged to abandon. The operations of prince Ferdinand, however, were
retarded by the resolution and obstinate perseverance of the French officer who commanded the
garrison of Harbourg. When the Hanoverian troops made themselves masters of the town, he retired
into the castle, which he held out against a considerable detachment of the allied army, by
whom it was invested; at length, however, the fortifications being entirely demolished, he
surrendered upon capitulation. On the sixth day of December, prince Ferdinand began his march
towards Zell, where the French army had taken post, under the command of the duke de Richelieu,
who, at the approach of the Hanoverians, called in his advanced parties, abandoned several
magazines, burned all the farm-houses and buildings belonging to the sheep-walks of his Britannic
majesty, without paying the least regard to the representations made by prince Ferdinand on
this subject; reduced the suburbs of Zell to ashes, after having allowed his men to plunder
the houses, and even set fire to the orphan hospital, in which a great number of helpless children
are said to have perished. One cannot, without horror, reflect upon such brutal acts of inhumanity.
The French troops on divers occasions, and in different parts of the empire, acted tragedies
of the same nature, which are not easily reconcileable to the character of a nation famed for
sentiment and civility. The Hanoverians having advanced within a league of Zell, the two armies
began to cannonade each other; the French troops, posted on the right of the Aller, burned
their magazines, and retired into the town, where they were so strongly intrenched, that prince
Ferdinand could not attempt the river, the passes of which were strongly guarded by the enemy.
At the same time, his troops were exposed to great hardships from the severity of the weather;
he, therefore, retreated to Ultzen and Lunenburgh, where his army was put into winter-quarters,
and executed several small enterprises by detachment, while the French general fixed his headquarters
in the city of Hanover, his cantonments extending as far as Zell, in the neighbourhood of which
many sharp skirmishes were fought from the out-parties with various success. Their imperial
majesties were no sooner apprized of these transactions, which they considered as infractions
of the convention, than they sent an intimation to the baron de Steinberg, minister from the
king of Great Britain as elector of Hanover, that he should appear no more at court, or confer
with their ministers; and that his residing at Vienna, as he might easily conceive, could not
be very agreeable: in consequence of which message he retired, after having obtained the necessary
passports for his departure. The chagrin occasioned at the court of Vienna by the Hanoverian
army's having recourse to their arms again, was, in some measure, alleviated by the certain
tidings received from Petersburgh, that the czarina had signed her accession in form to the
treaty between the courts of Vienna, Versailles, and Stockholm.

DEATH OF THE QUEEN OF POLAND, &c.

In closing our account of this year's transactions on the continent, we may observe, that on
the sixteenth day of November the queen of Poland died at Berlin of an apoplexy, supposed to
be occasioned by the shock she received on hearing that the French were totally defeated at
Rosbach. She was a lady of exemplary virtue and piety; whose constitution had been broke by
grief and anxiety conceived from the distress of her own family, as well as from the misery
to which she saw her people exposed. With respect to the European powers that were not actually
engaged as principals in the war, they seemed industriously to avoid every step that might
be construed as a deviation from the most scrupulous neutrality. The states-general proceeded
with great circumspection, in the middle course between two powerful neighbours, equally jealous
and formidable; and the king of Spain was gratified for his forbearance with a convention settled
between him and the belligerent powers, implying, that his subjects should per-sue their commerce
at sea without molestation, provided they should not transport those articles of merchandise
which were deemed contraband by all nations. The operations at sea, during the course of this
year, either in Europe or America, were far from being decisive or important. The commerce
of Great Britain sustained considerable damage from the activity and success of French privateers,
of which a great number had been equipped in the islands of Martinique and Gaudaloupe. The
Greenwich ship of war, mounted with fifty guns, and a frigate of twenty, fell into the hands
of the enemy, together with a very considerable number of trading vessels. On the other hand,
the English cruisers and privateers acquitted themselves with equal vigilance and valour. The
duc d'Aquitaine, a large ship of fifty guns, was taken in the month of June by two British
ships of war, after a severe engagement; and, about the same time, the Aquilon, of nearly the
same force, was driven ashore and destroyed near Brest by the Antelope, one of the British
cruisers. A French frigate of twenty-six guns, called the Emeraude, was taken in the channel,
after a warm engagement, by an English ship of inferior force, under the command of captain
Gilchrist, a gallant and alert officer, who, in the sequel, signalized himself on divers occasions,
by very extraordinary acts of valour. All the sea officers seemed to be animated with a noble
emulation to distinguish themselves in the service of their country, and the spirit descended
even to the captains of privateers, who, instead of imitating the former commanders of that
class, in avoiding ships of force, and centering their whole attention in advantageous prizes,
now encountered the armed ships of the enemy, and fought with the most obstinate valour in
the pursuit of national glory.

FATE OF CAPTAIN DEATH.

Perhaps history cannot afford a more remarkable instance of desperate courage than that which
was exerted in December of the preceding year, by the officers and crew of an English privateer,
named the Terrible, under the command of captain William Death, equipped with twenty-six carriage
guns, and manned with two hundred sailors. On the twenty-third day of the month he engaged
and made prize of a large French ship from St. Domingo, after an obstinate battle, in which
he lost his own brother and sixteen seamen; then he secured with forty men his prize, which
contained a valuable cargo, and directed his course to England; but in a few days he had the
misfortune to fall in with the Vengeance, a privateer of St. Maloes, carrying thirty-six large
cannon, with a complement of three hundred and sixty men. Their first step was to attack the
prize, which was easily retaken; then the two ships bore down upon the Terrible, whose main-mast
was shot away by the first broadside. Notwithstanding this disaster, the Terrible maintained
such a furious engagement against both as can hardly be paralleled in the annals of Britain.
The French commander and his second was killed, with two-thirds of his company; but the gallant
Captain Death, with the greater part of his officers, and almost his whole crew, having met
with the same fate, his ship was boarded by the enemy, who found no more than twenty-six persons
alive, sixteen of whom were mutilated by the loss of leg or arm, and the other ten grievously
wounded. The ship itself was so shattered, that it could scarce be kept above water, and the
whole exhibited a scene of blood, horror, and desolation. The victor itself lay like a wreck
on the surface; and in this condition made shift, with great difficulty, to tow the Terrible*
into St. Maloes, where she was not beheld without astonishment and terror.

     * There was a strange combination of names belonging to this
     privateer; the Terrible, equipped at Execution Dock,
     commanded by captain Death, whose lieutenant was called
     Devil, and who had one Ghost for surgeon.

This adventure was no sooner known in England, than a liberal subscription was raised for the
support of Death's widow, and that part of the crew which survived the engagement. In this,
and every sea reincounter that happened within the present year, the superiority in skill and
resolution was ascertained to the British mariners; for even when they fought against great
odds, their courage was generally crowned with success. In the month of November, captain Lockhart,
a young gentleman who had already rendered himself a terror to the enemy as commander of a
small frigate, now added considerably to his reputation by reducing the Melampe, a French privateer
of Bayonne, greatly superior to his own ship in number of men and weight of metal. This exploit
was seconded by another of the same nature, in his conquest of another French adventurer, called
the Countess of Gramont; and a third large privateer of Bayonne was taken by captain Saumarez,
commander of the Antelope. In a word, the narrow seas were so well guarded, that in a little
time scarce a French ship durst appear in the English channel, which the British traders navigated
without molestation.

SESSION OPENED.

On the first day of December, the king of Great Britain opened the session of parliament with
a speech from the throne, which seemed calculated to prepare the nation for the expense of
maintaining a new war on the continent of Europe. His majesty graciously declared that it would
have given him a most sensible pleasure to acquaint them, at the opening of the session, that
his success in carrying on the war had been equal to the justice of his cause, and the extent
and vigour of the measures formed for that purpose. He expressed the firmest confidence, that
the spirit and bravery of the nation, so renowned in all times, which had formerly surmounted
so many difficulties, were not to be abated by a few disappointments, which, he trusted, might
be retrieved by the blessing of God, and the zeal and ardour of his parliament for his majesty's
honour and the advantage of their country. He said it was his determined resolution to apply
his utmost efforts for the security of his kingdoms, and for the recovery and protection of
the possessions and rights of his crown and subjects in America and elsewhere, as well by the
strongest exertion of his naval force, as by all other methods. He signified, that another
great object which he had at heart, was the preservation of the protestant religion and the
liberties of Europe; and, in that case, to encourage and adhere to his allies. For this cause,
he assured them, he would decline no inconveniencies, and in this cause he earnestly solicited
their hearty concurrence and vigorous assistance. He observed, that the late signal success
in Germany had given a happy turn to affairs, which it was incumbent on them to improve; and
that, in such a critical conjuncture, the eyes of all Europe were upon them. He particularly
recommended to them, that his good brother and ally the king of Prussia might be supported
in such a manner as his magnanimity and active zeal for the common cause appeared to deserve.
To the commons he expressed his concern that the large supplies they had already granted did
not produce all the good fruits they had reason to expect; but he had so great a reliance on
their wisdom, as not to doubt of their perseverance. He only desired suck supplies as should
be necessary for the public service, and told them they might depend upon it, that the best
and most faithful economy should be used. He took notice of that spirit of disorder which had
shown itself among the common people in some parts of the kingdom; he laid injunctions upon
them to use their endeavours for discouraging and suppressing such abuses, and for maintaining
the laws and lawful authority. He concluded with observing, that nothing would so effectually
conduce to the defence of all that was clear to the nation, as well as to the reducing their
enemies to reason, as union and harmony among themselves. The time was, when every paragraph
of this harangue, which the reader will perceive is not remarkable for its elegance and propriety,
would have been canvassed and impugned by the country party in the house of commons. They would
have imputed the bad success of the war to the indiscretion of the ministry, in taking preposterous
measures, and appointing commanders unequal to the service. They would have inquired in what
manner the protestant religion was endangered; and, if it was, how it could be preserved or
promoted by adhering to allies, who, without provocation, had well nigh ruined the first and
principal protestant country of the empire. They would have started doubts with respect to
the late signal success in Germany, and hinted, that it would only serve to protract the burden
of a continental war. They would have owned that the eyes of all Europe were upon them, and
drawn this consequence, that it therefore behoved them to act with the more delicacy and caution
in discharge of the sacred trust reposed in them by their constituents: a trust which their
consciences would not allow to be faithfully discharged, should they rush precipitately into
the destructive measures of a rash and prodigal ministry; squander away the wealth of the nation,
and add to the grievous incumbrances under which it groaned, in support of connexions and alliances
that were equally foreign to her consideration, and pernicious to her interest. They would
have investigated that cause which was so warmly recommended for support, and pretended to
discover that it was a cause in which Great Britain ought to have had no concern, because it
produced a certainty of loss without the least prospect of advantage. They would have varied
essentially in their opinions of the necessary supplies, from the sentiments of those who prepared
the estimates, and even declared some doubts about the economy to be used in managing the national
expense: finally, they would have represented the impossibility of union between the two parties,
one of which seemed bent upon reducing the other to beggary and contempt. Such was the strain
that used to flow from an opposition, said to consist of disloyalty and disappointed ambition.
But that malignant spirit was now happily extinguished. The voice of the sovereign was adored
as the oracle of a divinity, and those happy days were now approaching that saw the commons
of England pour their treasures, in support of a German prince, with such a generous hand,
that posterity will be amazed at their liberality.

{1758}

To the speech of his majesty the house of lords returned an address, in such terms of complacency
as had long distinguished that illustrious assembly. The commons expressed their approbation
and confidence with equal ardour, and not one objection was made to the form or the nature
of the address, though one gentleman, equally independent in his mind and fortune, took exceptions
to some of the measures which had been lately pursued. Their complaisance was more substantially
specified in the resolutions of the house, as soon as the two great committees of supply were
appointed They granted for the sea-service of the ensuing year sixty thousand men, including
fourteen thousand eight hundred and forty-five marines; and the standing army, comprehending
four thousand invalids, was fixed at fifty-three thousand seven hundred and seventy-seven effective
men, commission and non-commission officers included. For the maintenance of these forces,
by sea and land, the charge of guards and garrisons at home and abroad, the expense of the
ordnance, and in order to make good the sum which had been issued by his majesty's orders,
in pursuance of the address from the commons, they now allotted four millions twenty-two thousand
eight hundred and seven pounds, seven shillings and three-pence. They unanimously granted,
as a present supply in the then critical exigency, towards enabling his majesty to maintain
and keep together the army formed last year in his electoral dominions, and then again put
in motion, and actually employed against the common enemy, in concert with the king of Prussia,
the sum of one hundred thousand pounds; for the ordinary of the navy, including half pay to
the sea-officers, they allowed two hundred and twenty-four thousand four hundred and twenty-one
pounds, five shillings and eight-pence; towards the building and support of the three hospitals
for seamen at Gosport, Plymouth, and Greenwich, thirty thousand pounds; for the reduced officers
of the land-forces and marines, pensions to the widows of officers, and other such military
contingencies, forty thousand nine hundred and twenty-six pounds, seventeen shillings and eleven-pence;
towards building, rebuilding, and repairs of his majesty's ships for the ensuing year, the
sum of two hundred thousand pounds; for defraying the charge of two thousand nine hundred and
twenty horse, and nine thousand nine hundred infantry, together with the general and staff-officers,
the officers of the hospital and the train of artillery, being the troops of the landgrave
of Hesse-Cassel in the pay of Great Britain, for sixty days, together with the subsidy for
the said time, pursuant to treaty, they assigned thirty-eight thousand three hundred and sixty
pounds, nineteen shillings and ten-pence three farthings. To the Foundling hospital they gave
forty thousand pounds, for the maintenance and education of deserted young children, as well
as for the reception of all such as should be presented under a certain age, to be limited
by the governors and guardians of that charity. Three hundred thousand pounds were given towards
discharging the debt of the navy, and two hundred and eighty-four thousand eight hundred and
two pounds for making up the deficiency of the grants for the service of the preceding year.
The landgrave of Hesse-Cassel was, moreover, gratified with the further sum of two hundred
and three thousand five hundred and thirty-six pounds, four shillings and nine-pence farthing,
for the maintenance of his forces, and the remainder of his subsidy. They granted six hundred
and seventy thousand pounds for enabling his majesty to make good his engagements with the
king of Prussia, pursuant to a convention lately concluded with that potentate. For defraying
the charge of thirty-eight thousand men of the troops of Hanover, Wolfenbuttel, Saxe-Gotha,
and the count of Buckebourg, together with that of general and staff-officers actually employed
against the common enemy, in concert with the king of Prussia, from the twenty-eighth day of
November in the last, to the twenty-fourth of December in the present year, inclusive, to be
issued in advance every two months, they allotted the sum of four hundred and sixty-three thousand
and eighty-four pounds, six shillings and ten-pence; and furthermore, they granted three hundred
and eighty-six thousand nine hundred and fifteen pounds, thirteen shillings and two-pence,
to defray the charges of forage, bread-waggons, train of artillery, provisions, wood, straw,
and all other extraordinary expenses, contingencies, and losses whatsoever, incurred, or to
be incurred, on account of his majesty's army, consisting of thirty-eight thousand men, actually
employed against the common enemy, in concert with the king of Prussia, from November last
to next December inclusive. For the extraordinary expenses of the land-forces, and other services,
incurred in the course of the last year, and not provided for by parliament, they allowed one
hundred and forty-five thousand four hundred and fifty-four pounds, fifteen shillings and one
farthing. They provided eight hundred thousand pounds to enable his majesty to defray the like
sum raised in pursuance of an act made in the last session of parliament, and charged upon
the first aids and supplies to be granted in the current session. Twenty-six thousand pounds
were bestowed on the out-pensioners of Chelsea hospital; above twenty thousand for the expense
of maintaining the colonies of Nova-Scotia and Georgia; for reimbursing to the province of
Massachusett's-bay, and the colony of Connecticut, their expense in furnishing provisions and
stores to the troops raised by them for his majesty's service, in the campaign of the year
one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six, the sum of forty-one thousand one hundred and seventeen
pounds, seventeen shillings and sixpence halfpenny; to be applied towards the rebuilding of
London bridge, carrying on the works for fortifying and securing the harbour of Milford, and
repairing the parish church of St. Margaret, in Westminster, they allotted twenty-nine thousand
pounds. The whole supplies of thig session amounted to the enormous sum of ten millions four
hundred and eighty-six thousand four hundred and fifty-seven pounds, and one penny. Nothing
could so plainly demonstrate the implicit confidence which the parliament, at this juncture,
reposed in the sovereign and the ministry, as their conduct in granting such liberal supplies,
great part of which were bestowed in favour of our German allies, whom the British nation thus
generously paid for fighting their own battles. Besides the sum of one million eight hundred
and sixty-one thousand eight hundred and ninety-seven pounds, four shillings and eight-pence,
expressly assigned for the support of these continental connexions, a sum considerably exceeding
the whole of the revenue raised in the reign of Charles the Second, and what part of the sum
granted to the king for extraordinary expenses might be applied to the same use, the article
might not improperly be swelled with the vast expense incurred by expeditions to the coast
of France; the chief, if not sole, design of which seemed to be a diversion in favour of the
nation's allies in Germany, by preventing France from sending such numerous armies into that
country as it could have spared, had not its sea-coasts required a considerable body of forces
for its defence against the attempts of the English. Indeed, the partisans of the ministry
were at great pains to suggest and inculcate a belief, that the war in Germany was chiefly
supported as a necessary diversion in favour of Great Britain and her plantations, which would
have been exposed to insult and invasion had not the enemy's forces been otherwise employed.
But the absurdity of this notion will at once appear to those who consider, that by this time
Great Britain was sole mistress of the sea; that the navy of France was almost ruined, and
her commerce on the ocean quite extinguished; that she could not, with the least prospect of
success, hazard any expedition of consequence against Great Britain, or any part of her dominions,
while the ocean was covered with such powerful navies belonging to that nation; and that if
one-third part of the money, annually engulphed in the German vortex, had been employed in
augmenting the naval forces of England, and those forces properly exerted, not a single cruiser
would have been able to stir from the harbours of France; all her colonies in the West Indies
would have fallen an easy prey to the arms of Great Britain; and, thus cut off from the resources
of commerce, she must have been content to embrace such terms of peace as the victor should
have thought proper to prescribe.

The funds established by the committee of ways and means, in order to realize those articles
of supply, consisted of the malt-tax, the land-tax at four shillings in the pound, sums remaining
in the exchequer produced from the sinking fund, four millions five hundred thousand pounds
to be raised by annuities at three pounds ten shillings per cent, per annum, and five hundred
thousand pounds by a lottery, attended with annuities redeemable by parliament, after the rate
of three pounds per cent, per annum; these several annuities to be transferable at the bank
of England, and charged upon a fund to be established in this session of parliament for payment
thereof, and for which the sinking fund should be a collateral security--[438] [See note 3
M, at the end of this Vol.]--one million six hundred and six thousand and seventy-six pounds,
five shillings and one penny farthing, issued and applied out of such monies as should or might
arise from the surpluses, excesses, and other revenues composing the sinking fund--a tax of
one shilling in the pound to be annually paid from all salaries, fees, and perquisites of offices
and employments in Great Britain, and from all pensions and other gratuities payable out of
any revenues belonging to his majesty in Great Britain, exceeding the yearly value of one hundred
pounds--an imposition of one shilling annually upon every dwelling-house inhabited within the
kingdom of Great Britain, over and above all other duties already chargeable upon them, to
commence from the fifth day of April--an additional tax of sixpence yearly for every window
or light in every dwelling-house inhabited in Britain which shall contain fifteen windows or
upwards; a continuation of certain acts near expiring, with respect to the duties payable on
foreign sailcloth imported into Great Britain, the exportation of British gunpowder, the securing
and encouraging the trade of his majesty's sugar colonies in America, and the empowering the
importers and proprietors of spirits from the British sugar plantations, to land them before
payment of the duties of excise, and to lodge them in warehouses at their own expense--an annual
tax of forty shillings for a license to be taken out by every person trading in, selling, or
vending gold or silver plate, in lieu of the duty of sixpence per ounce on all silver plate,
made or wrought, or which ought to be touched, assayed, or marked in this kingdom, which duty
now ceased and determined--a cessation of all drawbacks payable on the exportation of silver
plate--a law prohibiting all persons from selling, by retail, any sweet or made wine, without
having first procured a license for that purpose--and a loan, by exchequer bills, for eight
hundred thousand pounds, to be charged on the first aids to be granted in the next session
of parliament. These provisions amounted to the sum of eleven millions and seventy-nine thousand
seven hundred and twenty-two pounds, six shillings and ten-pence, exceeding the grants in the
sum of five hundred and ninety-three thousand two hundred and sixty-five pounds, six shillings
and nine-pence, so that the nation had reason to hope that this surplus of above half a million
would prevent any demand for deficiencies in the next session. By these copious grants of a
house of commons, whose complaisance knew no bounds, the national debt was, at this juncture,
swelled to the astonishing sum of eighty-seven millions three hundred and sixty-seven thousand
two hundred and ten pounds, nineteen shillings and ten-pence farthing; a load that would have
crushed the national credit of any other state in Christendom.

The liberality of the parliament was like the rock in the wilderness, which flowed with the
welcome stream when touched by the rod of Moses. The present supply which the commons granted
for the subsistence of the Hanoverian army, was, in pursuance of a message from his majesty,
communicated to the house by Mr. Secretary Pitt, signifying, that the king had ordered his
electoral army to be put again in motion, that it might act with vigour against the common
enemy, in concert with his good brother and ally the king of Prussia; that the exhausted and
ruined state of the electorate having rendered it incapable of maintaining that army, until
the further necessary charge thereof, as well as the more particular measures then concerting
for the effectual support of his Prussian majesty, could be laid before the house; the king,
relying on the constant zeal of his faithful commons for the support of the protestant religion
and of the liberties of Europe, against the dangerous designs of France and her confederates,
found himself, in the meantime, under the absolute necessity of recommending to the house the
speedy consideration of such a present supply as might enable his majesty, in this critical
conjuncture, to subsist and keep together the said army. This address was no sooner recited
by the speaker, than it was unanimously referred to the committee of supply, who gratified
his majesty's wish with an immediate resolution; and, considering their generous disposition,
doubtless the same compliance would have appeared, even though no mention had been made of
the protestant religion, which, to men of ordinary penetration, appeared to have no natural
concern in the present dispute between the belligerent powers, although former ministers had
often violently introduced it into messages and speeches from the throne, in order to dazzle
the eyes of the populace, even while they insulted the understanding of those who were capable
of exercising their own reason. This pretext was worn so threadbare, that, among the sensible
part of mankind, it could no longer be used without incurring contempt and ridicule. In order
to persuade mankind that the protestant religion was in danger, it would have been necessary
to specify the designs that were formed against it, as well as the nature of the conspiracy,
and to descend to particulars properly authenticated. In that case, great part of Europe would
have been justly alarmed. The states-general of the United Provinces, who have made such glorious
and indefatigable efforts in support of the protestant religion, would surely have lent a helping
hand towards its preservation. The Danes would not have stood, tamely neutral, and seen the
religion they profess exposed to the rage of such a powerful confederacy. It is not to be imagined
that the Swedes, who have so zealously maintained the purity of the protestant faith, would
now join an association whose aim was the ruin of that religion. It is not credible that even
the Hungarians, who profess the same faith, and other protestant states of the empire, would
enter so heartily into the interests of those who were bent upon its destruction; or that the
Russians would contribute to the aggrandizement of the catholic faith and discipline, so opposite
to that of the Greek church, which they espouse. As, therefore, no particular of such a design
was explained, no act of oppression towards any protestant state or society pointed out, except
those that were exercised by the protestants themselves; and as the court of Vienna repeatedly
disavowed any such design, in the most solemn manner, the unprejudiced part of mankind will
be 'apt to conclude that the cry of religion was used, as in former times, to arouse, alarm,
and inflame; nor did the artifice prove altogether unsuccessful. Notwithstanding the general
lukewarmth of the age in matters of religion, it produced considerable effect among the fanatic
sectaries that swarm through the kingdom of England. The leaders of those blind enthusiasts,
either actuated by the spirit of delusion, or desirous of recommending themselves to the protection
of the higher powers, immediately seized the hint, expatiating vehemently on the danger that
impended over God's people; and exerting all their faculties to impress the belief of a religious
war, which never fails to exasperate and impel the minds of men to such deeds of cruelty and
revenge as must discredit all religion, and even disgrace humanity. The signal trust and confidence
which the parliament of England reposed in the king, at this juncture, was in nothing more
conspicuous than in leaving to the crown the unlimited application of the sum granted for augmenting
the salaries of the judges. In the reign of king William, when the act of settlement was passed,
the parliament, jealous of the influence which the crown might acquire over the judges, provided,
by an express clause of that act, that the commissions of the judges should subsist quamdiu
se bene gesserint, and that their salaries should be established; but now we find a sum of
money granted for the augmentation of their salaries, and the crown vested with a discretionary
power to proportion and apply this augmentation; a stretch of complaisance, which, how safe
soever it may appear during the reign of a prince famed for integrity and moderation, will
perhaps one day be considered as a very dangerous accession to the prerogative.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

SECOND TREATY WITH PRUSSIA.

So fully persuaded were the ministry that the commons would cheerfully enable them to pay what
subsidies they might promise to their German allies, that on the eleventh of April they concluded
a new treaty of convention with his Prussian majesty, which, that it might have the firmer
consistence and the greater authority, was, on the part of Great Britain, transacted and signed
by almost all the privy-counsellors who had any share in the administration.*

     * These were, sir Robert Henly, lord keeper of the great
     seal; John, earl of Granville, president of the council;
     Thomas Holies, duke of Newcastle, first commissioner of the
     treasury; Kohert, earl of Holdernesse, one of the principal
     secretaries of state; Philip, earl of Hardwicke; and William
     Pitt, esq., another of the principal secretaries of state.
     In the name and on the part of his Prussian majesty, the
     Sieurs Dado Henry, baron of Knyphausen, his privy-counsellor
     of embassy, and minister-plenipotentiary at the court of
     London; and Louis Michel, his resident and chargé
     d'affaires.

This treaty, which was signed at Westminster, imported, "That the contracting powers having
mutually resolved to continue their efforts for their reciprocal defence and security, for
the recovery of their possessions, the protection of their allies, and the support of the liberties
of the Germanic body, his Britannic majesty had, from these considerations, determined to grant
to his Prussian majesty an immediate succour in money, as being the most ready and the most
efficacious; and their majesties having judged it proper that thereupon a convention should
be made, for declaring and fixing their intentions upon this head, they had nominated and authorized
their respective ministers, who, after having communicated their full powers to one another,
agreed to the following stipulations:--The king of Great Britain engaged to pay in the city
of London, to such persons as should be authorized to receive it by his Prussian majesty, the
sum of four millions of German crowns, amounting to six hundred and seventy thousand pounds
sterling, to be paid at once, and in one whole sum, immediately after the exchange of ratification,
upon being demanded by his Prussian majesty. This prince, on his part, obliged himself to apply
that sum to the maintaining and augmenting his forces, which should act in the best manner
for the good of the common cause, and for the purpose of reciprocal defence and mutual security
proposed by their said majesties. Moreover, the high contracting parties engage not to conclude
any treaty of peace, truce, or neutrality, nor any other sort of convention or agreement, with
the powers engaged in the present war, but in concert and by mutual agreement, wherein both
should be nominally comprehended. Finally, it was stipulated that this convention should be
ratified, and the ratifications exchanged on both sides, within the term of six weeks, to be
computed from the day of signing this present convention, or sooner, if possible."

All the resolutions to which the committee of ways and means agreed were executed by bills,
or clauses in bills, which afterwards received the royal sanction. The militia still continued
to be an object of parliamentary care and attention; but the institution was not yet heartily
embraced, because seemingly discountenanced by the remnant of the old ministry, which still
maintained a capital place in the late coalition, and indeed almost wholly engrossed the distribution
of pensions and places. The commons having presented an address to his majesty, with respect
to the harbour of Milford-haven, a book of plans and estimates for fortifying that harbour
was laid before the house, and a committee appointed to examine the particulars. They were
of opinion that the mouth of the harbour was too wide to admit of any fortification, or effectual
defence; but that the passage called Nailand-point, lying higher than Hubberstone-road, might
be fortified, so as to afford safe riding and protection to the trade and navy of Great Britain;
that if it should be thought proper hereafter to establish a yard and dock for building and
equipping fleets at Milford, no place could, from the situation, nature, soil, and a general
concurrence of all necessary local circumstances, be more fitted for such a design; that if
a proper use were made of this valuable, though long-neglected harbour, the distressful delays
too often embarrassing and disappointing the nation in her naval operations, might be in a
great measure happily removed, to the infinite relief and enlargement of the kingdom in the
means of improving its naval force; the necessary progress and free execution of which was
now so unhappily and frequently restrained and frustrated, by the want of a harbour like that
of Milford-haven, framed by nature with such local advantages. This report appeared to be so
well supported by evidence, that a bill was framed, and passed into an act, for granting ten
thousand pounds towards carrying on the works for fortifying and securing the harbour of Milford
in the county of Pembroke. Other laws of national consequence were enacted, in the course of
this session, with little or no opposition. On the very first day of their sitting, the commons
received a petition from the mayor, magistrates, merchants, and inhabitants of Liverpool, complaining
of the high price of wheat and other grain; expressing their apprehension that it would continue
to rise, unless the time for the importation of foreign corn, duty free, should be prolonged,
or some other salutary measure taken by parliament, to prevent dealers from engrossing corn;
submitting to the wisdom of the house a total prohibition of distilling and exporting grain
while the high price should continue; praying they would take the premises into consideration,
and grant a seasonable relief to the petitioners, by a continuance of a free importation, and
taking such other effectual means to reduce the growing price of corn as to them should seem
necessary and expedient. This being an urgent case, that equally interested the humanity of
the legislature and the manufacturers of the kingdom, it was deliberated upon, and discussed
with remarkable despatch. In a few days a bill was prepared, passed through both houses, and
enacted into a law, continuing till the twenty-fourth day of December, in the present year,
the three acts of last session; for prohibiting the exportation of corn; for prohibiting the
distillation of spirits; and for allowing the importation of corn, duty free. A second law
was established, regulating the price and assize of bread, and subjecting to severe penalties
those who should be concerned in its adulteration. In consequence of certain resolutions taken
in a committee of the whole house, a bill was presented for prohibiting the payment of the
bounty upon the exportation of corn, unless sold at a lower price than is allowed in an act
passed in the first year of the reign of William and Mary; but this bill, after having been
read a second time and committed, was neglected, and proved abortive.

BILLS FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF SEAMEN, &c.

In consequence of a motion made by Mr. Grenville, a humane bill was prepared and brought in
for the encouragement of seamen employed in the royal navy, establishing a regular method for
the punctual, frequent, and certain payment of their wages; enabling them more easily and readily
to remit money for the support of their wives and families, and preventing the frauds and abuse
attending such payments. This bill, having passed the lower house, engaged in a very particular
manner the attention of the lords, who, by divers messages to the house of commons, desired
the attendance of several members. These messages being taken into consideration, several precedents
were recited; a debate arose about their formality, and the house unanimously resolved that
a message should be sent to the lords, acquainting them that the house of commons, not being
sufficiently informed by their messages upon what grounds, or for what purposes, their lordships
desired the house would give leave to such of their members as were named in the said messages
to attend the house of lords, in order to be examined upon the second reading of the bill,
the commons hoped their lordships would make them acquainted with their intention. The lords,
in answer to this intimation, gave the commons to understand, that they desired the attendance
of the members mentioned in their messages, that they might be examined as witnesses upon the
second reading of the bill. This explanation being deemed satisfactory, the members attended
the house of lords, where they were carefully and fully examined, as persons conversant in
sea affairs, touching the inconveniencies which had formerly attended the sea-service, as well
as the remedies now proposed; and the bill having passed through their house, though not without
warm opposition, was enacted into a law by his majesty's assent. The militia act, as it passed
in the last session, being found upon trial defective, Mr. Townshend moved for leave to bring
in a new bill, to explain, amend, and enforce it; this was accordingly allowed, prepared, and
passed into a law, though it did not seem altogether free from material objections, some of
which were of an alarming nature. The power vested by law in the crown over the militia, is
even more independent than that which it exercises over the standing army; for this last expires
at the end of the year, if not continued by a new act of parliament; whereas the militia is
subjected to the power of the crown for the term of five years, during which it may be called
out into actual service without consent of parliament, and consequently employed for sinister
purposes. A commission-officer in the militia may be detained, as subject to the articles of
war, until the crown shall allow the militia to return to their respective parishes; and thus
engaged, he is liable to death as a mutineer, or deserter, should he refuse to appear in arms,
and fight in support of the worst measures of the worst minister. Several merchants and manufacturers
of silk offered a petition, representing, that in consequence of the act passed in the last
session, allowing the importation of fine organzine Italian thrown silk till the first day
of December, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven, they had given orders
to their correspondents abroad to send large quantities of such silk through Germany to Hamburgh
and Holland, which, in the common course of things, might probably have arrived in London before
the act expired, if their carriage had not been protracted by the great rains and inundations
in Italy and Germany, in the months of August and September last, which rendered the roads
for many weeks impassable; that from unlucky accidents on shore, and storms and contrary winds
after the silk was shipped, it could not possibly arrive within the time limited by the act;
and unless it should be admitted to an entry, they, the petitioners, would be great sufferers,
the manufacturers greatly prejudiced, and the good end and purpose of the act in a great measure
frustrated; they, therefore, prayed leave to bring in a bill for allowing the introduction
of all such fine Italian organized silk as should appear to have been shipped in Holland and
Hamburgh for London, on or before the first day of December. The petition being referred to
a committee, which reported that these allegations were true, the house complied with their
request, and the bill having passed, was enacted into a law in the usual form. A speedy passage
was likewise granted to the mutiny bill, and the other annual measure for regulating the marine
forces, which contained nothing new or extraordinary. A committee being appointed to inquire
what laws were already expired, or near expiring, they performed this difficult task with indefatigable
patience and perseverance; and, in pursuance of their resolutions, three bills were prepared
and passed into laws, continuing some acts for a certain time, and rendering others perpetual.
This, however, was opposed by a petition from several persons, owners of barges, and other
craft navigating the river Thames, who affirmed, that if the bill should pass into a law as
it then stood, it would be extremely injurious to the petitioners in particular, and to the
public in general. These were heard by their counsel before the committee, but no report was
yet given, when the temporary bridge was reduced to ashes. Then the mayor, aldermen, and commons
of London presented another petition, alleging that, in pursuance of the powers vested in them
by act of parliament, they had already demolished a good number of the houses on London bridge,
and directed the rest that were standing to be taken down with all convenient expedition; that
two of the arches might be laid into one for the improvement of the navigation; that they had,
at a very great expense, erected a temporary wooden bridge, to preserve a public passage to
and from the city, until the great arch could be finished, which temporary bridge being consumed
by fire, they must rebuild it with the greatest expedition, at a further considerable expense;
that the sum necessary for carrying on and completing this great and useful work, including
the rebuilding of the said temporary bridge, was estimated at fourscore thousand pounds; and
as the improving, widening, and enlarging London bridge was calculated for the general good
of the public, for the advancement of trade and commerce, and for making the navigation upon
the river Thames more safe and secure; they, therefore, prayed the house to take the premises
into consideration. This petition being recommended by his majesty to the consideration of
the house, was referred to the committee of supply, and produced the resolution of granting
fifteen thousand pounds towards the rebuilding of London bridge. A bill was prepared, under
the title of an act to improve, widen, and enlarge the passage over and through London bridge,
enforcing the payment of the toll imposed upon loaded vessels, which had been found extremely
burdensome to trade; but this incumbrance was prevented by another petition of several merchants,
tradesmen, and other inhabitants of the borough of Southwark, taking notice of the fifteen
thousand pounds granted towards the repair of London bridge, and, as they were informed, intended
to make the said bridge free for all his majesty's subjects: they said they hoped to partake
of this public bounty; but afterwards hearing that the bill then depending was confined to
the tolls formerly granted for repairing the said bridge, they represented the hardships which
they and all traders would continue to labour under; they alleged, that the surveyors and workmen
then employed upon this work, had discovered the true principles on which the bridge was built;
that the foundation of the piers consisted of hard durable stone, well cemented together, and
now as strong and firm as when first built; that when the bridge should be finished, great
savings would be made in keeping it in repair, from the sums formerly expended, on a mistaken
opinion, that the foundation was of wood: that there were very considerable estates appointed
solely for the repairs of the bridge, which they apprehended would be sufficient to maintain
it without any toll; or if they should not be thought adequate to that purpose, they hoped
the deficiency would not be made up by a toll upon trade and commerce, but rather by an imposition
on coaches, chariots, chaises, and saddle-horses. This remonstrance made no impression on the
house. The bill being, on a motion of sir John Philips, read a third time, passed through both
houses, and obtained the royal assent.

ACT FOR ASCERTAINING THE QUALIFICATION OF VOTING.

The interest of the manufacturers was also consulted in an act encouraging the growth of madder,
a plant essentially necessary in dying and printing calicoes, which may be raised in England
without the least inconvenience. It was judged, upon inquiry, that the most effectual means
to encourage the growth of this commodity would be to ascertain the tithe of it; and a bill
was brought in for that purpose. The rate of the tithe was established at five shillings an
acre; and it was enacted, that this law should continue in force for fourteen years, and to
the end of the next session of parliament; but wherefore this encouragement was made temporary
it is not easy to determine.--The laws relating to the poor, though equally numerous and oppressive
to the subject, having been found defective, a new clause, relating to the settlement of servants
and apprentices, was now added to an act passed in the twentieth year of the present reign,
intituled, "An act for the better adjusting and more easily recovering of the wages of certain
servants, and of certain apprentices." No country in the universe can produce so many laws
made in behalf of the poor as those that are daily accumulating in England: in no other country
is there so much money raised for their support, by private charity, as well as public taxation;
yet this, as much as any country, swarms with vagrant beggars, and teems with objects of misery
and distress; a sure sign either of misconduct in the legislature, or a shameful relaxation
in the executive part of the civil administration.--The scenes of corruption, perjury, riot,
and intemperance, which every election for a member of parliament had lately produced, were
now grown so infamously open and intolerable, and the right of voting was rendered so obscure
and perplexed by the pretensions and proceedings of all the candidates for Oxfordshire in the
last election, that the fundamentals of the constitution seemed to shake, and the very essence
of parliaments to bo in danger. Actuated by these apprehensions, sir John Philips, a gentleman
of Wales, who had long distinguished himself in the opposition by his courage and independent
spirit, moved for leave to bring in a bill that should obviate any doubts which might arise
concerning the electors of knights of the shire to serve in parliament for England, and further
regulate the proceedings of such elections. He was accordingly permitted to bring in such a
bill, in conjunction with Mr. Townshend, Mr. Cornwall, and lords North and Craysfort; and in
the usual course, the bill being prepared, was enacted into a law, under the title of, "An
act for further explaining the laws touching the electors of knights of the shire to serve
in parliament for that part of Great Britain called England." The preamble specified, that
though, by an act passed in the eighteenth year of the present reign, it was provided, that
no person might vote at the election of a knight or knights of a shire within England and Wales,
without having a freehold estate in the county for which he votes, of the clear yearly value
of forty shillings, over and above all rents and charges, payable out of or in respect to the
same; nevertheless, certain persons, who hold their estates by copy of court-roll, pretend
to a right of voting, and have at certain times presumed to vote at such elections; this act,
therefore, ordained, that from and after the twenty-ninth day of June in the present year,
no person who holds his estate by copy of court-roll should be entitled thereby to vote at
the election of any knight or knights of a shire within England or Wales; but every such vote
should be void, and the person so voting should forfeit fifty pounds to any candidate for whom
such vote should not have been given, and who should first sue for the same, to be recovered
with full costs, by action of debt, in any court of judicature.*

     * For the more easy recovery of this forfeit, it was
     enacted, that the plaintiff in such action might only set
     forth, in the declaration or hill, that the defendant was
     indebted to him in the sum of fifty pounds, alleging the
     offence for which the suit should be brought, and that the
     defendant had acted contrary to this act, without mentioning
     the writ of summons to parliament, or the return thereof;
     and, upon trial of any issue, the plaintiff should not be
     obliged to prove the writ of summons to parliament, or the
     return thereof, or any warrant or authority to the sheriff
     upon any such writ; that every such action should be
     commenced within nine months after the fact committed; and
     that, if the plaintiff should discontinue his action, or be
     non-suited, or have judgment given against him, the
     defendant should recover treble costs.

So far the act, thus procured, may be attended with salutary consequences; but, in all probability,
the intention of its first movers and patrons was not fully answered; inasmuch as no provision
was made for putting a stop to that spirit of license, drunkenness, and debauchery, which prevails
at almost every election, and has a very pernicious effect upon the morals of the people.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

BILL FOR MORE EFFECTUALLY MANNING THE NAVY.

Among the bills that miscarried in the course of this session, some turned on points of great
consequence to the community. Objections of the same nature might have been as justly started
against another bill, for the more effectually manning of his majesty's navy, for preventing
desertion, and for the relief and encouragement of seamen belonging to ships and vessels in
the service of the merchants. The purport of this project was to establish registers or muster-rolls
of all seamen, fishermen, lightermen, and watermen; obliging ship-masters to leave subscribed
lists of their respective crews at offices maintained for that purpose, that a certain number
of them might be chosen by lot for his majesty's service, in any case of emergency. This expedient,
however, was rejected, as an unnecessary and ineffectual incumbrance on commerce, which would
hamper navigation, and, in a little time, diminish the number of seamen, of consequence act
diametrically opposite to the purpose for which it was contrived.--Numberless frauds having
been committed, and incessant law-suits produced, by private and clandestine conveyances, a
motion was made, and leave given, to form a bill for the public registering of all deeds, conveyances,
wills, and other incumbrances, that might effect any honours, manors, lands, tenements, and
hereditaments, within the kingdom of England, wherein public registers were not already appointed
by act of parliament; but this measure, so necessary to the ascertainment and possession of
property, met with a violent opposition; and was finally dropped, as some people imagine, through
the influence of those who, perhaps, had particular reasons for countenancing the present mysterious
forms of conveyancing. Such a bill must also have been disagreeable and mortifying to the pride
of those landholders whose estates were incumbered, because, in consequence of such a register,
every mortgage under which they laboured would be exactly known.--The next object to which
the house converted its attention, was a bill explaining and amending a late act for establishing
a fish-market in the city of Westminster, and preventing scandalous monopolies of a few engrossing
fishmongers, who imposed exorbitant prices on their fish, and, in this particular branch of
traffic, gave law to above six hundred thousand of their fellow-citizens. Abundance of pains
were taken to render this bill effectual, for putting an end to such flagrant impositions.
Inquiries were made, petitions read, counsel heard, and alterations proposed; at length the
bill, having passed through the lower house, was conveyed to the lords, among whom it was suffered
to expire, on pretence that there was not time sufficient to deliberate maturely on the subject.

HABEAS-CORPUS ACT AMENDED.

The occasion that produced the next bill which miscarried we shall explain, as an incident
equally extraordinary and interesting. By an act passed in the preceding session, for recruiting
his majesty's land-forces and marines, we have already observed, that the commissioners thereby
appointed were vested with a power of judging ultimately, whether the persons brought before
them were such as ought, by the rules prescribed in the act, to be impressed into the service;
for it was expressly provided, that no person, so impressed by those commissioners, should
be taken out of his majesty's service by any process, other than for some criminal accusation.
During the recess of parliament, a gentleman having been impressed before the commissioners,
and confined in the Savoy, his friends made application for a habeas-corpus, which produced
some hesitation, and indeed an insurmountable difficulty; for, according to the writ of habeas-corpus,
passed in the reign of Charles the Second, this privilege relates only to persons committed
for criminal or supposed criminal matters, and the gentleman did not stand in that predicament.
Before the question could be determined he was discharged, in consequence of an application
to the secretary at war; but the nature of the case plainly pointed out a defect in the act,
seemingly of the most dangerous consequence to the liberty of the subject. In order to remedy
this defect, a bill for giving a more speedy relief to the subject, upon the writ of habeas-corpus,
was prepared, and presented to the house of commons, which formed itself into a committee,
and made several amendments. It imported, that the several provisions made in the aforesaid
act, passed in the reign of Charles II. for the awarding of writs of habeas-corpus, in cases
of commitment or detainer for any criminal or supposed criminal matter, should, in like manner,
extend to all cases where any person, not being committed or detained for any criminal or supposed
criminal matter, should-be confined, or restrained of his or her liberty, under any colour
or pretence whatsoever; that, upon oath made by such person so confined or arrested, or by
any other on his or her behalf, of any actual confinement or restraint, and that such confinement
or restraint, to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person so applying, was not by
virtue of any commitment or detainer for any criminal or supposed criminal matter, an habeas-corpus,
directed to the person or persons so confining or restraining the party, as aforesaid, should
be awarded and granted, in the same manner as is directed, and under the same penalties as
are provided by the said act, in the case of persons committed and detained for any criminal
or supposed criminal matter; that the person or persons before whom the party so confined or
restrained should be brought, by virtue of any habeas-corpus granted in the vacation time,
under the authority of this act, might and should, within three days after the return made,
proceed to examine into the facts contained in such return, and into the cause of such confinement
and restraint; and thereupon either discharge, or bail, or remand the parties so brought, as
the case should require, and as to justice should appertain. The rest of the bill related to
the return of the writ in three days, and the penalties incurred by those who should neglect
or refuse to make the due return, or to comply with any other clause of this regulation. The
commons seemed hearty in rearing up this additional buttress to the liberty of their fellow-subjects,
and passed the bill with the most laudable alacrity; but in the house of lords such a great
number of objections were started, that it sunk at the second reading, and the judges were
ordered to prepare a bill for the same purpose, to be laid before that house in the next session.

SCHEME IN FAVOUR OF THE FOUNDLING HOSPITAL.

His majesty having recommended the care of the Foundling hospital to the house of commons,
which cheerfully granted forty thousand pounds for the support of that charity, the growing
annual expense of it appeared worthy of further consideration, and leave was granted to bring
in a bill for obliging all the parishes of England and Wales to keep registers of all their
deaths, births, and marriages, that from these a fund might be raised towards the support of
the said hospital. The bill was accordingly prepared by a committee appointed for the purpose;
but before the house could take the report into consideration, the parliament was prorogued.--The
proprietors of the privateer called the Antigallican, which had taken a rich French ship homeward
bound from China, and carried her into Cadiz, where the Spanish government had wrested her
by violence from the captors, and delivered her to the French owners, now presented a petition
to the house of commons, complaining of this interposition as an act of partiality and injustice;
representing the great expense at which the privateer had been equipped, the legality of the
capture, the loss and hardships which they the petitioners had sustained, and imploring such
relief as the house should think requisite. Though these allegations were supported by a species
of evidence that seemed strong and convincing, and it might be thought incumbent on the parliament
to vindicate the honour of the nation, when thus insulted by a foreign power, the house, upon
this occasion, treated the petition with the most mortifying neglect, either giving little
credit to the assertions it contained, or unwilling to take any step which might at this juncture
embroil the nation with the court of Spain on such a frivolous subject. True it is, the Spanish
government alleged, in their own justification, that the prize was taken under the guns of
Corunna, insomuch that the shot fired by the privateer entered that place, and damaged some
houses; but this allegation was never properly sustained, and the prize was certainly condemned
as legal by the court of admiralty at Gibraltar.

PROCEEDINGS RELATIVE TO THE AFRICAN COMPANY.

As we have already given a detail of the trial of sir John Mordaunt, it will be unnecessary
to recapitulate any circumstances of that affair, except such as relate to its connexion with
the proceedings of parliament. In the beginning of this session, lord Barrington, as secretary
at war, informed the house, by his majesty's command, that lieutenant-general sir John Mordaunt,
a member of that house, was in arrest for disobedience of his majesty's orders, while employed
on the late expedition to the coast of France. The commons immediately resolved, that an address
should be presented to his majesty, returning him the thanks of this house for his gracious
message of that day, in the communication he had been pleased to make of the reason for putting
lieutenant-general sir, John Mordaunt in arrest.--Among the various objects of commerce that
employed the attention of the house, one of the most considerable was the trade to the coast
of Africa, for the protection of which an annual sum had been granted for some years, to be
expended in the maintenance and repairs of castles and factories. While a committee was employed
in perusing the accounts relating to the sum granted in the preceding session for this purpose,
a petition from the committee of the African company, recommended in a message from his majesty,
was presented to the house, soliciting further assistance for the ensuing year. In the meantime,
a remonstrance was offered by certain planters and merchants, interested in trading to the
British sugar colonies in America, alleging, that the price of negroes was greatly advanced
since the forts and settlements on the coast of Africa had been under the direction of the
committee of the company of merchants trading to that coast; a circumstance that greatly distressed
and alarmed the petitioners, prevented the cultivation of the British colonies, and was a great
detriment to the trade and navigation of the kingdom; that this misfortune, they believed,
was in some measure owing to the ruinous state and condition of the forts and settlements;
that, in their opinion, the most effectual method for maintaining the interest of that trade
on a respectable footing, next to that of an incorporated joint-stock company, would be putting
those forts and settlements under the sole direction of the commissioners for trade and plantations;
that the preservation or ruin of the American sugar colonies went hand in hand with that of
the slave trade to Africa; that, by an act passed in the year one thousand seven hundred and
fifty, for extending and improving this trade, the British subjects were debarred from lodging
their slaves and merchandise in the forts and settlements on the coast; they, therefore, prayed
that this part of the act might be repealed; that all commanders of British and American vessels,
free merchants, and all other his majesty's subjects, who were settled, or might at any time
thereafter settle in Africa, should have free liberty, from sunrise to sunset, to enter the
forts and settlements, and to deposit their goods and merchandise in the warehouses thereunto
belonging; to secure their slaves or other purchases without paying any consideration for the
same; but the slaves to be victualled at the proper cost and charge of their respective owners.
The house having taken this petition into consideration, inquired into the proceedings of the
company, and revised the act for extending and improving the trade to Africa, resolved, that
the committee of the African company had faithfully discharged the trust reposed in them, and
granted ten thousand pounds for maintaining the British forts and settlements in that part
of the world. The enemy were perfectly well acquainted with the weakness of the British castles
on the coast of Africa; and had they known as well how to execute with spirit, as to plan with
sagacity, the attempt which, in the course of the preceding year, they made upon the principal
British fort in Guinea, would have succeeded, and all the other settlements would have fallen
into their hands without opposition.*

     * Robert Hunter Morris represented, in a petition to the
     house, that as no salt was made in the British colonies in
     America, they were obliged to depend upon a precarious
     supply of that commodity from foreigners; he, therefore,
     offered to undertake the making of marine salt at a moderate
     price in one of those colonies, at his own risk and charge,
     provided he could be secured in the enjoyment of the profits
     which the work might produce, for such a term of years as
     might seem to the house a proper and adequate compensation
     for so great an undertaking. The petition was ordered to lie
     upon the table; afterwards read and referred to a committee,
     which, however, made no report. A circumstance not easily
     accounted for, unless we suppose the house of commons were
     of opinion, that such an enterprise might contribute towards
     rendering our colonies too independent of their mother-
     country.--Equally unaccountable was the miscarriage of
     another bill, brought in for regulating the manner of
     licensing alehouses, which was read for the first time; but
     when a motion was made for a second reading, the question
     was put, and it passed in the negative.

SESSION CLOSED.

The longest and warmest debate which was maintained in the course of this session, arose from
a motion for leave to bring in a bill for shortening the term and duration of future parliaments;
a measure truly patriotic, against which no substantial argument could be produced, although
the motion was rejected by the majority, on pretence, that whilst the nation was engaged in
such a dangerous and expensive war, it would be improper to think of introducing such an alteration
in the form of government. Reasons of equal strength and solidity will never be wanting to
the patrons and ministers of corruption and venality. The alteration proposed was nothing less
than removing and annulling an encroachment which had been made on the constitution; it might
have been effected without the least pang or convulsion, to the general satisfaction of the
nation; far from being unreasonable at this juncture, it would have enhanced the national reputation
abroad, and rendered the war more formidable to the enemies of Great Britain, by convincing
them that it was supported by a ministry and parliament who stood upon such good terms with
the people. Indeed, a quick succession of parliaments might have disconcerted, and perhaps
expelled that spirit of confidence and generosity which now so remarkably espoused and gratified
the sovereign's predilection for the interest of Hanover.--Other committees were established,
to enquire into the expense incurred by new lines and fortifications raised at Gibraltar; to
examine the original standards of weights and measures used in England; consider the laws relating
to them, and report their observations, together with their opinion of the most effectual means
for ascertaining and enforcing uniform standards to be used for the future. The commons were
perfectly satisfied with the new works which had been raised at Gibraltar; and with respect
to the weights and measures, the committee agreed to certain resolutions, but no further progress
was made in this inquiry, except an order for printing these resolutions, with the appendix;
however, as the boxes containing the standards were ordered to be locked up by the clerk of
the house, in all probability their intention was to proceed on this subject in some future
session. On the ninth day of June sundry bills received the royal assent by commission, his
majesty being indisposed; and on the twentieth day of the same month, the lords commissioners
closed the session with a speech to both houses, expressing his majesty's deep sense of their
loyalty and good affection, demonstrated in their late proceedings, in their zeal for his honour
and real interest in all parts, in their earnestness to surmount every difficulty, in their
ardour to maintain the war with the utmost vigour; proofs which must convince mankind that
the ancient spirit of the British nation still subsisted in its full force. They were given
to understand that the king had taken all such measures as appeared the most conducive to the
accomplishment of their public-spirited views and wishes; that with their assistance, crowned
by the blessing of God upon the conduct and bravery of the combined army, his majesty had been
enabled, not only to deliver his dominions in Germany from the oppressions and devastations
of the French, but also to push his advantages on this side the Rhine; that he had cemented
the union between him and his good brother the king of Prussia, by new engagements; that the
British fleets and armies were now actually employed in such expeditions as appeared likely
to annoy the enemy in the most sensible manner, and to promote the welfare and prosperity of
these kingdoms; in particular, to preserve the British rights and possessions in America, and
to make France feel, in those parts, the real strength and importance of Great Britain. The
commons were thanked for the ample supplies which they had so freely and unanimously given,
and assured on the part of his majesty that they should be managed with the most frugal economy.
They were desired, in consequence of the king's earnest recommendation, to promote harmony
and good agreement amongst his faithful subjects; to make the people acquainted with the rectitude
and purity of his intentions and measures, and to exert themselves in maintaining the peace
and good order of the country, by enforcing obedience to the laws and Lawful authority.

VIGOROUS PREPARATIONS FOR WAR, &c.

Never, surely, had any sovereign more reason to be pleased with the conduct of his ministers,
and the spirit of his people. The whole nation reposed the most unbounded confidence in the
courage and discretion, as well as in the integrity of the minister, who seemed eager upon
prosecuting the war with such vigour and activity as appeared almost unexampled in the annals
of Great Britain. New levies were made, new ships put in commission, fresh expeditions undertaken,
and fresh conquests projected. Such was the credit of the administration, that people subscribed
to the government loans with surprising eagerness. An unusual spirit of enterprise and resolution
seemed to inspire all the individuals that constituted the army and navy; and the passion for
military fame diffused itself through all ranks in the civil departments of life, even to the
very dregs of the populace; such a remarkable change from indolence to activity, from indifference
to zeal, from timorous caution to fearless execution, was effected by the influence and example
of an intelligent and intrepid minister, who, chagrined at the inactivity and disgraces of
the preceding campaign, had on a very solemn occasion, lately declared his belief that there
was a determined resolution, both in the naval and military commanders, against any vigorous
exertion of the national power in the service of the country. He affirmed, that though his
majesty appeared ready to embrace every measure proposed by his ministers for the honour and
interest of his British dominions, yet scarce a man could be found with whom the execution
of any one plan in which there was the least appearance of any danger could with confidence
be trusted. He particularised the inactivity of one general in North America, from whose abilities
and personal bravery the nation had conceived great expectations; he complained, that this
noble commander had expressed the most contemptuous disregard for the civil power, from which
he derived his authority, by neglecting to transmit, for a considerable length of time, any
other advice of his proceedings but what appeared on a written scrap of paper; he observed,
that with a force by land and sea greater than ever the nation had heretofore maintained, with
a king and ministry ardently desirous of redeeming her glory, succouring her allies, and promoting
her true interest, a shameful dislike to the service everywhere prevailed, and few seemed affected
with any other zeal than that of aspiring to the highest posts, and grasping the largest salaries.
The censure levelled at the commander in America was founded on mistake; the inactivity of
that noble lord was not more disappointing to the ministry than disagreeable to his own inclination.
He used his utmost endeavours to answer the expectation of the public, but his hands were effectually
tied by an absolute impossibility of success, and his conduct stood justified in the eyes of
his sovereign. A particular and accurate detail of his proceedings he transmitted through a
channel, which he imagined would have directly conveyed it to the foot of the throne; but the
packet was said to have been purposely intercepted and suppressed. Perhaps he was not altogether
excusable for having corresponded so slightly with the secretary of state; but he was said
to have gone abroad in full persuasion that the ministry would be changed, and therefore his
assiduities were principally directed to the great personage, who, in that case, would have
superintended and directed all the operations of the army. All sorts of military preparations
in founderies, docks, arsenals, raising and exercising troops, and victualling transports,
were now carried on with such diligence and despatch as seemed to promise an exertion that
would soon obliterate the disagreeable remembrance of past disgrace. The beginning of the year
was, however, a little clouded by a general concern for the death of his majesty's third daughter,
the princess Caroline, a lady of the most exemplary virtue and amiable character, who died
at the age of forty-five, sincerely regretted as a pattern of unaffected piety, and unbounded
benevolence.

The British cruisers kept the sea during all the severity of winter, in order to protect the
commerce of the kingdom, and annoy that of the enemy. They exerted themselves with such activity,
and their vigilance was attended with such success, that a great number of prizes were taken,
and the trade of France almost totally extinguished. A very gallant exploit was achieved by
one captain Bray, commander of the Adventure, a small armed vessel in the government's service:
falling in with the Machault, a large privateer of Dunkirk, near Dungenness, he ran her aboard,
fastened her boltsprit to his capstan, and, after a warm engagement, compelled her commander
to submit. A French frigate of thirty-six guns was taken by captain Parker, in a new fire-ship
of inferior force. Divers privateers of the enemy were sunk, burned, or taken, and a great
number of merchant ships fell into the hands of the English. Nor was the success of the British
ships of war confined to the English channel. At this period the board of admiralty received
information from admiral Coats, in Jamaica, of an action which happened off the island of Hispaniola,
in the month of October of the preceding year, between three English ships of war and a French
squadron. Captain Forrest, an officer of distinguished merit in the service, had, in the ship
Augusta, sailed from Port Eoyal in Jamaica, accompanied by the Dreadnought and Edinburgh, under
the command of the captains Suckling and Langdon. He was ordered to cruise off Cape François,
and this service he literally performed in the face of the French squadron under Kersin, lately
arrived at that place from the coast of Africa. This commander, piqued at seeing himself thus
insulted by an inferior armament, resolved to come forth and give them battle; and that he
might either take them, or at least drive them out of the seas, so as to afford a free passage
to a great number of merchant ships then lying at the Cape, bound for Europe, he took every
precaution which he thought necessary to ensure success. He reinforced his squadron with some
store ships, mounted with guns, and armed for the occasion, and supplied the deficiency in
his complements, by taking on board seamen from the merchant ships, and soldiers from the garrison.
Thus prepared, he weighed anchor, and stood out to sea, having under his command four large
ships of the line, and three stout frigates. They were no sooner perceived advancing, than
captain Forrest held a short council with his two captains. "Gentlemen," said he, "you know
your own strength, and see that of the enemy; shall we give them battle?" They replying in
the affirmative, he added, "Then fight them we will: there is no time to be lost; return to
your ships, and get them ready for engaging." After this laconic consultation among these three
gallant officers, they bore down upon the French squadron without further hesitation, and between
three and four in tire afternoon the action began with great impetuosity. The enemy exerted
themselves with uncommon spirit, conscious that their honour was peculiarly at stake, and that
they fought in sight, as it were, of their own coast, which was lined with people, expecting
to see them return in triumph. But, notwithstanding all their endeavours, their commodore,
after having sustained a severe engagement, that lasted two hours and a half, found his ship
in such a shattered condition, that he made signal for one of his frigates to come and tow
him out of the line. His example was followed by the rest of his squadron, which, by this assistance,
with the favour of the land breeze and the approach of night, made shift to accomplish their
escape from the three British ships, which were too much disabled in their masts and rigging
to prosecute their victory. One of the French squadron was rendered altogether unserviceable
for action. Their loss in men amounted to three hundred killed, and as many wounded; whereas
that of the English did not much exceed one-third of this number. Nevertheless, they were so
much damaged, that, being unable to keep the sea, they returned to Jamaica, and the French
commodore seized the opportunity of sailing with a great convoy for Europe. The courage of
captain Forrest was not more conspicuous in this engagement with the French squadron near Cape
Francois, than his conduct and sagacity in a subsequent adventure near Port-au-Prince, a French
harbour, situated at the bottom of a bay on the western part of Hispaniola, behind the small
island of Gonave. After M. de Kersin had taken his departure from Cape François for Europe,
admiral Coats, beating up to windward from Port-Royal in Jamaica with three ships of the line,
received intelligence that there was a French fleet at Port-au-Prince, ready to sail on their
return to Europe. Captain Forrest then presented the admiral with a plan for an attack on this
place, and urged it earnestly. This, however, was declined, and captain Forrest directed to
cruise off the island Gonave for two days only, the admiral enjoining him to return at the
expiration of the time, and rejoin the squadron at Cape Nicholas. Accordingly captain Forrest,
in the Augusta, proceeded up the bay, between the island Gonave and Hispaniola, with a view
to execute a plan which he had himself projected. Next day, in the afternoon, though he perceived
two sloops, he forbore chasing, that he might not risk a discovery; for the same purpose he
hoisted Dutch colours, and disguised his ship with tarpaulins. At five in the afternoon he
discovered seven sail of ships steering to the westward, and hauled from them to avoid suspicion;
but at the approach of night gave chase with all the sail he could carry. About ten he perceived
two sail, one of which fired a gun, and the other made the best of her way for Leoganne, another
harbour in the bay. At this period captain Forrest reckoned eight sail to leeward, near another
port called Petit Goave. Coming up with the ship which had fired the gun, she submitted without
opposition, after he had hailed and told her captain what he was, produced two of his largest
cannon, and threatened to sink her if she should give the least alarm. He forthwith shifted
the prisoners from this prize, and placed on board of her five-and-thirty of his own crew,
with orders to stand for Petit Goave, and intercept any of the fleet that might attempt to
reach that harbour. Then he made sail after the rest, and in the dawn of the morning, finding
himself in the middle of their fleet, he began to fire at them all in their turns, as he could
bring his guns to bear. They returned the fire for sometime; at length the Marguerite, the
Solide, and the Theodore struck their colours. These being secured, were afterwards used in
taking the Maurice, Le Grand, and La Flore; the Brilliant also submitted, and the Mars made
sail, in hopes of escaping, but the Augusta coming up with her about noon, she likewise fell
into the hands of the victor. Thus, by a well-conducted stratagem, a whole fleet of nine sail
were taken by a single ship, in the neighbourhood of four or five harbours, in any one of which
they would have found immediate shelter and security. The prizes, which happened to be richly
laden, were safely conveyed to Jamaica, and there sold at public auction, for the benefit of
the captors, who may safely challenge history to produce such another instance of success.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE FRENCH EVACUATE EMBDEN.

The ministry having determined to make vigorous efforts against the enemy in North America,
admiral Boscawen was vested with the command of the fleet destined for that service, and sailed
from St. Helen's on the nineteenth day of February, when the Invincible, of seventy-four guns,
one of the best ships that constituted his squadron, ran aground, and perished; but her men,
stores, and artillery were saved. In the course of the succeeding month, sir Edward Hawke steered
into the bay of Biscay with another squadron, in order to intercept any supplies from France
designed for Cape Breton or Canada; and about the same time the town of Embden, belonging to
his Prussian majesty, which had fallen into the hands of the enemy, was suddenly retrieved
by the conduct of commodore Holmes, stationed on that coast, who sent up two of his small ships
to anchor in the river between Knok and the city. The garrison, amounting to three thousand
seven hundred men, finding themselves thus cut off from all communication with the country
below, abandoned the place with great precipitation, and some of their baggage being sent off
by water, was taken by the boats which the commodore armed for that purpose. It was in the
same month that the admiralty received advice of another advantage by sea, which had been gained
by admiral Osborne, while he cruised between Cape de Gatt and Carthagena, on the coast of Spain.
On the twenty-eighth day of March he fell in with a French squadron, commanded by the marquis
du Quesne, consisting of four ships, namely, the Foudroyant, of eighty guns, the Orphée, of
sixty-four, the Oriflamme, of fifty, and the Pléiade frigate, of twenty-four, in their passage
from Toulon to reinforce M. de la Clue, who had for some time been blocked up by admiral Osborne
in the harbour of Carthagena. The enemy no sooner perceived the English squadron than they
dispersed, and steered different courses: then Mr. Osborne detached divers ships in pursuit
of each, while he himself, with the body of his fleet, stood off for the bay of Carthagena,
to watch the motions of the French squadron which lay there at anchor. About seven in the evening,
the Orphée, having on board five hundred men, struck to captain Storr, in the Revenge, who
lost the calf of one leg in the engagement, during which he wras sustained by the ships Berwick
and Preston. The Monmouth, of sixty-four guns, commanded by captain Gardener, engaged the Foudroyant,
one of the largest ships in the French navy, mounted with fourscore cannon, and containing
eight hundred men, under the direction of the marquis du Quesne. The action was maintained
with great fury on both sides, and the gallant captain Gardener lost his life; nevertheless,
the fight was continued with unabating vigour by his lieutenant, Mr. Carkett, and the Foudroyant
disabled in such a manner, that her commander struck, as soon as the other English ships, the
Swiftsure and the Hampton-court, appeared. This mortifying step, however, he did not take until
he saw his ship lie like a wreck upon the water, and the decks covered with carnage. The Oriflamme
was driven on shore under the castle of Aiglos, by the ships Montague and Monarque, commanded
by the captains Rowley and Montague, who could not complete their destruction without violating
the neutrality of Spain. As for the Pléiade frigate, she made her escape by being a prime sailer.
This was a severe stroke upon the enemy, who not only lost two of her capital ships, but saw
them added to the navy of Great Britain; and the disaster was followed close by another, which
they could not help feeling with equal sensibility of mortification and chagrin. In the beginning
of April, sir Edward Hawke, steering with his squadron into Basque-road, on the coast of Poictou,
discovered, off the isle of Aix, a French fleet at anchor, consisting of five ships of the
line, with six frigates, and forty transports, having on board three thousand troops, and a
large quantity of stores and provisions intended as a supply for their settlements in North
America. They no sooner saw the English Admiral advancing, than they began to slip their cables,
and fly in the utmost confusion. Some of them escaped by sea, but a great number ran into shoal
water, where they could not be pursued; and next morning they appeared aground, lying on their
broadsides. Sir Edward Hawke, who had rode all night at anchor abreast of the isle of Aix,
furnished the ships Intrepid and Medway with trusty pilots, and sent them farther in when the
flood began to make, with orders to sound ahead, that he might know whether there was any possibility
of attacking the enemy; but the want of a sufficient depth of water rendered the scheme impracticable.
In the meantime, the French threw overboard their cannon, stores, and ballast; and boats and
launches from Rochefort were employed in carrying out warps, to drag their ships through the
soft mud, as soon as they should be water-borne by the flowing tide. By these means their large
ships of war, and many of their transports, escaped into the river Charente; but their loading
was lost, and the end of their equipment totally defeated. Another convoy of merchant ships
under the protection of three frigates, sir Edward Hawke, a few days before, had chased into
the harbour of Saint Martin's, in the isle of Rhé, where they still remained, waiting an opportunity
for hazarding a second departure. A third, consisting of twelve sail, bound from Bourdeaux
to Quebec, under convoy of a frigate and armed vessel, was encountered at sea by one British
ship of the line and two fire-ships, which took the frigate and armed vessel, and two of the
convoy afterwards met with the same fate; but this advantage was overbalanced by the loss of
captain James Hume, commander of the Pluto fire-ship, a brave accomplished officer, who, in
an unequal combat with the enemy, refused to quit the deck even when he was disabled, and fell
gloriously, covered with wounds, exhorting the people, with his latest breath, to continue
the engagement while the ship could swim, and acquit themselves with honour in the service
of their country.

ADMIRAL BRODERICK'S SHIP BURNT.

On the twenty-ninth day of May, the Raisonable, a French ship of the line, mounted with sixty-four
cannon, having on board six hundred and thirty men, commanded by the prince de Mombazon, chevalier
de Rohan, was, in her passage from Port l'Orient to Brest, attacked by captain Dennis, in the
Dorsetshire, of seventy guns, and taken after an obstinate engagement, in which one hundred
and sixty men of the prince's complement were killed or wounded, and he sustained great damage
in his hull, sails, and rigging. These successes were, moreover, chequered by the tidings of
a lamentable disaster that befel the ship Prince George, of eighty guns, commanded by rear-admiral
Broderick, in his passage to the Mediterranean. On the thirteenth day of April, between one
and two in the afternoon, a dreadful fire broke out in the fore part of the ship, and raged
with such fury, that notwithstanding all the efforts of the officers and men for several hours,
the flames increased, and the ship being consumed to the water's edge, the remnant sunk about
six o'clock in the evening. The horror and consternation of such a scene are not easily described.
When all endeavours proved fruitless, and no hope of preserving the ship remained, the barge
was hoisted out for the preservation of the admiral, who entered it accordingly; but all distinction
of persons being now abolished, the seamen rushed into it in such crowds, that in a few moments
it overset. The admiral, foreseeing that this would be the case, stripped off his clothes,
and committing himself to the mercy of the waves, was saved by the boat of a merchant ship,
after he had sustained himself in the sea a full hour by swimming. Captain Payton, who was
the second in command, remained upon the quarter-deck as long as it was possible to keep that
station, and then descending by the stern ladder, had the good fortune to be taken into a boat
belonging to the Aklerney sloop. The hull of the ship, masts, and rigging, were now in a blaze,
bursting tremendously in several parts through horrid clouds of smoke; nothing was heard but
the crackling of the flames, mingled with the dismal cries of terror and distraction; nothing
was seen but acts of frenzy and desperation. The miserable wretches, affrighted at the horrors
of such a conflagration, sought a fate less dreadful by plunging into the sea, and about three
hundred men were preserved by the boats belonging to some ships that accompanied the admiral
in his voyage, but five hundred perished in the ocean.

DESCENT AT CANCALLE BAY.

The king of Great Britain being determined to renew his attempt upon the coast of France, ordered
a very formidable armament to be equipped for that purpose. Two powerful squadrons by sea were
destined for the service of this expedition: the first, consisting of eleven great ships, was
commanded by lord Anson and sir Edward Hawke; the other, composed of four ships of the line,
seven frigates, six sloops, two fire-ships, two bombs, ten cutters, twenty tenders, ten store-ships,
and one hundred transports, was put under the direction of commodore Howe, who had signalized
himself by his gallantry and conduct in the course of the last fruitless expedition. The plan
of a descent upon France having been adopted by the ministry, a body of troops, consisting
of sixteen regiments, nine troops of light horse, and six thousand marines, was assembled for
the execution of this design, and embarked under the command of the duke of Marlborough; a
nobleman, who though he did not inherit all the military genius of his grandfather, yet far
excelled him in the amiable and social qualities of the heart: he was brave beyond all question,
generous to profusion, and good-natured to excess. On this occasion he was assisted by the
councils of lord George Sackville, second in command, son to the duke of Dorset; an officer
of experience and reputation, who had, in the civil departments of government, exhibited proofs
of extraordinary genius and uncommon application. The troops, having been encamped for some
time upon the Isle of Wight, were embarked in the latter end of May, and the two fleets sailed
in the beginning of June for the coast of Bretagne, leaving the people of England flushed with
the gayest hopes of victory and conquest. The two fleets parted at sea: lord Anson, with his
squadron, proceeded to the bay of Biscay, in order to watch the motions of the enemy's ships,
and harass their navigation; while commodore Howe, with the land-forces, steered directly towards
St. Maloes, a strong place of considerable commerce, situated on the coast of Bretagne, against
which the purposed invasion seemed to be chiefly intended. The town, however, was found too
well fortified, both by art and nature, to admit of an attempt by sea with any prospect of
success; and, therefore, it was resolved to make a descent in the neighbourhood. After the
fleet had been, by contrary winds, detained several days in sight of the French coast, it arrived
in the bay of Cancalle, about two leagues to the eastward of St. Maloes; and Mr. Howe having
silenced a small battery which the enemy had occasionally raised upon the beach, the troops
were landed without further opposition on the sixth day of June. The duke of Marlborough immediately
began his march towards St. Servan, with a view to destroy such shipping and magazines as might
be in any accessible parts of the river; and this scheme was executed with success. A great
quantity of naval stores, two ships of war, several privateers, and about fourscore vessels
of different sorts, were set on fire and reduced to ashes, almost under the cannon of the place,
which, however, they could not pretend to besiege in form. His grace having received repeated
advices that the enemy were busily employed in assembling forces to march against him, returned
to Cancalle, where Mr. Howe had made such a masterly disposition of the boats and transports,
that the re-embarkation of the troops was performed with surprising ease and expedition. The
forces, while they remained on shore were restrained from all outrage by the most severe discipline;
and the French houses, which their inhabitants had abandoned, were left untouched. Immediately
after their landing, the duke of Marlborough, as commander-in-chief, published and distributed
a manifesto, addressed to the people of Bretagne, giving them to understand, that his descent
upon the coast was not effected with a design to make war on the inhabitants of the open country,
except such as should be found in arms, or otherwise opposing the operations of his Britannic
majesty; that all who were willing to continue in peaceable possession of their effects, might
remain unmolested in their respective dwellings, and follow their usual occupations; that,
besides the customs and taxes they used to pay to their own king, nothing should be required
of them but what was absolutely necessary for the subsistence of the army; and that, for all
provisions brought in, they should be paid in ready money. He concluded this notice with declaring,
that if, notwithstanding these assurances of protection, they should carry off their effects
and provisions, and abandon the places of their habitation, he would treat them as enemies,
and destroy their houses with fire and sword. To the magistracy of St. Maloes he likewise sent
a letter, importing, that as all the inhabitants of the towns and villages between Dinant,
Rennes, and Doll, now in his possession, had deserted their habitations, probably to avoid
the payment of the usual contributions; and he being informed that the magistrates had compelled
the people of the country to retire into the town of St. Maloes; he now gave them notice, that
if they did not immediately send them back to their houses, and come themselves to his head-quarters,
to settle the contributions, he should think himself obliged to proceed to military execution.
These threats, however, were not put in force, although the magistrates of St. Maloes did not
think proper to comply with his injunction. But it was found altogether impossible to prevent
irregularities among troops that were naturally licentious. Some houses were pillaged, and
not without acts of barbarity; but the offenders were brought to immediate justice; and it
must be owned, as an incontestable proof of the general's humanity, that in destroying the
magazines of the enemy at St. Servan, which may be termed the suburbs of St. Maloes, he ordered
one small-store house to be spared, because it could not be set on fire without endangering
the whole district. The British forces being re-embarked, including about five hundred light-horse,
which had been disciplined and carried over with a view to scour the country, the fleet was
detained by contrary winds in the bay of Cancalle for several days, during which a design seems
to have been formed for attacking Granville, which had been reconnoitred by some of the engineers;
but, in consequence of their report, the scheme was laid aside, and the fleet stood out to
sea, where it was exposed to some rough weather. In a few days, the wind blowing in a northern
direction, they steered again towards the French coast, and ran in with the land near Havre-de-Grace,
where the flat-bottomed boats, provided for landing, were hoisted out, and a second disembarkation
expected. But the wind blowing violently towards the evening, the boats were re-shipped, and
the fleet obliged to quit the land in order to avoid the dangers of a lee-shore. Next day,
the weather being more moderate, they returned to the same station, and orders were given to
prepare for a descent; but the duke of Marlborough having taken a view of the coast in an open
cutter, accompanied by commodore Howe, thought proper to waive the attempt. Their next step
was to bear away before the wind for Cherbourg, in the neighbourhood of which place the fleet
came to anchor. Here some of the transports received the fire of six different batteries; and
a considerable body of troops appeared in arms to dispute the landing; nevertheless, the general
resolved that the forts Querqueville, l'Hommet, and Gallet, should be attacked in the night
by the first regiment of guards. The soldiers were actually distributed in the flat-bottomed
boats, and every preparation made for this enterprise, when the wind began to blow with such
violence, that the troops could not be landed without the most imminent danger and difficulty,
nor properly sustained in case of a repulse, even if the disembarkation could have been effected.
This attempt, therefore, was laid aside, but at the same time a resolution taken to stand in
towards the shore with the whole fleet, to cover a general landing. A disposition was made
accordingly; but the storm increasing, the transports ran foul of each other, and the ships
were exposed to all the perils of a lee-shore, for the gale blew directly upon the coast; besides,
the provisions began to fail, and the hay for the horses was almost consumed. These concurring
reasons induced the commanders to postpone the disembarkation to a more favourable opportunity.
The fleet stood out to sea, and the tempest abating, they steered for the Isle of Wight, and
next day anchored at St. Helen's. Such was the issue of an enterprise achieved with considerable
success, if we consider the damage done to the enemy's shipping, and the other objects which
the minister had in view; namely, to secure the navigation of the channel, and make a diversion
in favour of the German allies, by alarming the French king, and obliging him to employ a great
number of troops to defend his coast from insult and invasion; but whether such a mighty armament
was necessary for the accomplishment of these petty aims, and whether the same armament might
not have been employed in executing schemes of infinitely greater advantage to the nation,
we shall leave to the judicious reader's own reflection.

EXPEDITION AGAINST CHERBOURG.

The designs upon the coast of France, though interrupted by tempestuous weather, were not as
yet laid aside for the whole season; but, in the meantime, the troops were disembarked on the
Isle of Wight; and one brigade marched to the northward, to join a body of troops, with which
the government resolved to augment the army of the allies in Germany, commanded by prince Ferdinand
of Brunswick. The duke of Marlborough and lord George Sackville being appointed to conduct
this British corps upon the continent, the command of the marine expeditions devolved to lieutenant-general
Bligh, an old experienced officer, who had served with reputation; and his royal highness prince
Edward, afterwards created duke of York, entered as a volunteer with commodore Howe, in order
to learn the rudiments of the sea-service. The remainder of the troops being re-embarked, and
everything prepared for the second expedition, the fleet sailed from St. Helen's on the first
of August; and after a tedious passage, from calms and contrary winds, anchored on the seventh
in the bay of Cherbourg. By this time the enemy had intrenched themselves within a line, extending
from the fort Ecoeurdeville, which stands about two miles to the westward of Cherbourg, along
the coast for the space of four miles, fortified with several batteries at proper distances.
Behind this retrenchment a body of horse and infantry appeared in red and blue uniforms; but
as they did not advance to the open beach, the less risk was run in landing the British forces.
At first a bomb-ketch had been sent to anchor near the town, and throw some shells into the
place, as a feint to amuse the enemy, and deceive them with regard to the place of disembarkation,
while the general had determined to land about a league to the westward of Querqueville, the
most western fort in the bay. The other bomb-ketches, being posted along shore, did considerable
execution upon the intrench-ments, not only by throwing shells in the usual way, but also by
using ball-mortars, filled with great quantities of balls, which may be thrown to a great distance,
and, by scattering as they fly, do abundance of mischief. While the ketches fired without ceasing,
the grenadiers and guards were rowed regularly ashore in the flat-bottomed boats, and, landing
without opposition, instantly formed on a small open portion of the beach, with a natural breast-work
in their front, having on the other side a hollow way, and a village rising beyond it with
a sudden ascent; on the left, the ground was intersected by hedges, and covered with orchards,
and from this quarter the enemy advanced in order. The British troops immediately quitted the
breast-work, in order to meet them half way, and a straggling fire began; but the French edging
to the left, took possession of the hill, from whence they piqueered with the advanced posts
of the English. In the meantime, the rest of the infantry were disembarked, and the enemy at
night retired. As the light troops were not yet landed, general Bligh encamped that night at
the village of Erville, on a piece of ground that did not extend above four hundred paces;
so that the tents were pitched in a crowded and irregular manner. Next morning, the general
having received intelligence that no parties of the enemy were seen moving on the hill, or
in the plain, and that fort Querqueville was entirely abandoned, made a disposition for marching
in two columns to Cherbourg. An advanced party took immediate possession of Querqueville; and
the lines and batteries along the shore were now deserted by the enemy. The British forces
marching behind St. Aulne, Ecoeurdeville, Hommet, and La Galet, found the town of Cherbourg
likewise abandoned, and the gates being open, entered it without opposition. The citizens,
encouraged by a manifesto containing a promise of protection, which had been published and
distributed in order to quiet their apprehensions, received their new guests with a good grace,
overwhelming them with civilities, for which they met with a very ungrateful return; for as
the bulk of the army was not regularly encamped and superintended, the soldiers were at liberty
to indulge themselves in riot and licentiousness. All night long they ravaged the adjacent
country without restraint; and as no guards had been regularly placed in the streets and avenues
of Cherbourg, to prevent disorders, the town itself was not exempted from pillage and brutality.
These outrages, however, were no sooner known, than the general took immediate steps for putting
a stop to them for the present, and preventing all irregularities for the future. Next morning,
the place being reconnoitred, he determined to destroy, without delay, all the forts and the
basin; and the execution of this design was left to the engineers, assisted by the officers
of the fleet and artillery. Great sums of money had been expended upon the harbour and basin
of Cherbourg, which at one time was considered by the French court as an object of great importance,
from its situation respecting the river Seine, as well as the opposite coast of England; but
as the works were left unfinished, in all appearance the plan had grown into disreputation.
The enemy had raised several unconnected batteries along the bay; but the town itself was quite
open and defenceless While the engineers were employed in demolishing the works, the light
horse scoured the country, and detachments were every day sent out towards Walloign, at the
distance of four leagues from Cherbourg, where the enemy were encamped, and every hour received
reinforcements. Several skirmishes were fought by the out-parties of each army, in one of which
captain Lindsay, a gallant young officer, who had been very instrumental in training the light
horse, was mortally wounded. The harbour and basin of Cherbourg being destroyed, together with
all the forts in the neighbourhood, and about twenty pieces of brass cannon secured on board
the English ships, a contribution, amounting to about three thousand pounds sterling, was exacted
upon the town, and a plan of re-embarkation concerted; as it appeared from the reports of peasants
and deserters, that the enemy were already increased to a formidable number. A slight intrench-ment
being raised, sufficient to defend the last division that should be re-embarked, the stores
and artillery were shipped, and the light horses conveyed on board their respective transports,
by means of platforms laid in the flat-bottomed vessels. On the sixteenth day of August, at
three o'clock in the morning, the forces marched from Cherbourg down to the beach, and re-embarked
at fort Galet, without the least disturbance from the enemy.

DESCENT AT ST. MALOES.

This service being happily performed, the fleet set sail for the coast of England, and anchored
in the road of Weymouth, under the high land of Portland. In two days it weighed and stood
again to the southward; but was obliged by contrary winds to return to the same riding. The
second effort, however, was more effectual. The fleet with some difficulty kept the sea, and
steering to the French coast, came to anchor in the bay of St. Lunaire, two leagues to the
westward of St. Maloes, against which it was determined to make another attempt. The sloops
and ketches being ranged along shore to cover the disembarkation, the troops landed on a fair
open beach, and a detachment of grenadiers was sent to the harbour of St. Briac, above the
town of St. Maloes, where they destroyed about fifteen small vessels; but St. Maloes itself
being properly surveyed, appeared to be above insult, either from the land-forces or the shipping.
The mouth of the river that forms its basin extends above two miles in breadth at its narrowest
part, so as to be out of the reach of land batteries, and the entrance is defended by such
forts and batteries as the ships of war could not pretend to silence, considering the difficult
navigation of the channels; besides fifty pieces of large cannon planted on these forts and
batteries, the enemy had mounted forty on the west side of the town; and the basin was, moreover,
strengthened by seven frigates or armed vessels, whose guns might have been brought to bear
upon any batteries that could be raised on shore, as well as upon ships entering by the usual
channel. For these substantial reasons the design against St. Maloes was dropped; but the general
being unwilling to re-embark, without having taken some step for the further annoyance of the
enemy, resolved to penetrate into the country; conducting his motions, however, so as to be
near the fleet, which had by this time quitted the bay of St. Lunaire, where it could not ride
with any safety, and anchored in the bay of St. Cas, about three leagues to the westward.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

ENGLISH DEFEATED AT ST. CAS.

On Friday the eighth of September, general Bligh, with his little army, began his march for
Guildo, at the distance of nine miles, which he reached in the evening; next day he crossed
a little gut or inlet of the sea, at low water, and his troops being incommoded by the peasants,
who fired at them from hedges and houses, he sent a priest with a message, intimating, that
if they would not desist, he would reduce their houses to ashes. No regard being paid to this
intimation, the houses were actually set on fire as soon as the troops had formed their camp
about two miles on the other side of the inlet. Next morning he proceeded to the village of
Matignon, where, after some smart skirmishing, the French piquets appeared, drawn up in order,
to the number of two battalions; but having sustained a few shots from the English field-pieces,
and seeing the grenadiers advance, they suddenly dispersed. General Bligh continuing his route
through the village, encamped in the open ground, about three miles from the bay of St. Cas,
which was this day reconnoitred for re-embarkation; for he now received undoubted intelligence,
that the duke d'Aiguillon had advanced from Brest to Lambale, within six miles of the English
camp, at the head of twelve regular battalions, six squadrons, two regiments of militia, eight
mortars, and ten pieces of cannon. The bay of St. Cas was covered by an intrenchment which
the enemy had thrown up, to prevent or oppose any disembarkation; and on the outside of this
work there was a range of sand hills extending along shore, which could have served as a cover
to the enemy, from whence they might have annoyed the troops in re-embarking; for this reason
a proposal was made to the general, that the forces should be re-embarked from a fair open
beach on the left, between St. Cas and Guildo; but this advice was rejected, and, indeed, the
subsequent operations of the army savoured strongly of blind security and rash presumption.
Had the troops decamped in the night without noise, in all probability they would have arrived
at the beach before the French had received the least intelligence of their motion; and in
that case, the whole army, consisting of about six thousand men, might have been re-embarked
without the least interruption; but instead of this cautious manner of proceeding, the drums
were beaten at two o'clock in the morning, as if with intention to give notice to the enemy,
who forthwith repeated the same signal. The troops were in motion before three, and though
the length of the march did not exceed three miles, the halts and interruptions were so numerous
and frequent, that they did not arrive on the beach of St. Cas till nine. Then the embarkation
was begun, and might have been happily finished, had the transports lain near the shore and
received the men as fast as the boats could have conveyed them on board, without distinction;
but many ships rode at a considerable distance, and every boat carried the men on board the
respective transports to which they belonged; a punctilio of disposition by which a great deal
of time was unnecessarily consumed. The small ships and bomb-ketches were brought near the
shore, to cover the embarkation; and a considerable number of sea-officers were stationed on
the beach, to superintend the boats' crews, and regulate the service; but notwithstanding all
their attention and authority, some of the boats were otherwise employed than in conveying
the unhappy soldiers. Had all the cutters and small craft belonging to the fleet been properly
occupied in this service, the disgrace and disaster of the day would scarce have happened.
The British forces had skirmished a little on the march, but no considerable body of the enemy
appeared until the embarkation was begun; then they took possession of an eminence by a windmill,
and forthwith opened a battery of ten cannon and eight mortars, from whence they fired with
considerable effect upon the soldiers on the beach, and on the boats in their passage. They
afterwards began to march down the hill, partly covered by a hollow way on their left, with
a design to gain a wood, where they might form and extend themselves along the front of the
English, and advance against them under shelter of the sand-hills: but in their descent they
suffered extremely from the cannon and mortars of the shipping, which made great havock and
threw them into confusion. Their line of march down the hill was staggered, and for some time
continued in suspense; then they turned off to one side, extended themselves along a hill to
their left, and advanced in a hollow way, from whence they suddenly rushed out to the attack.
Though the greater part of the British troops were already embarked, the rear-guard, consisting
of all the grenadiers and half of the first regiment of guards, remained on the shore, to the
number of fifteen hundred, under the command of major-general Dury. This officer, seeing the
French advance, ordered his troops to form in grand divisions, and march from behind the bank
that covered them, in order to charge the enemy before they could be formed on the plain. Had
this step been taken when it was first suggested to Mr. Dury, before the French were disengaged
from the hollow way, perhaps it might have so far succeeded as to disconcert and throw them
into confusion; but by this time they had extended themselves into a very formidable front,
and no hope remained of being able to withstand such a superior number. Instead of attempting
to fight against such odds in an open field of battle, they might have retreated along the
beach to a rock on the left, in which progress their right flank would have been secured by
the in-trenchment; and the enemy could not have pursued them along the shore, without being
exposed to such a fire from the shipping, as in all probability they could not have sustained.
This scheme was likewise proposed to Mr. Dury; but he seemed to be actuated by a spirit of
infatuation. The English line being drawn up in uneven ground, began the action with an irregular
fire from right to left, which the enemy returned; but their usual fortitude and resolution
seemed to forsake them on this occasion. They saw themselves in danger of being surrounded
and cut in pieces; their officers dropped on every side; and all hope of retreat was now intercepted.
In this cruel dilemma, their spirits failed; they were seized with a panic; they faultered,
they broke; and in less than five minutes after the engagement began, they fled in the utmost
confusion, pursued by the enemy, who no sooner saw them give way than they fell in among them
with their bayonets fixed, and made a great carnage. General Dury being dangerously wounded,
ran into the sea, where he perished; and this was the fate of a great number, officers as well
as soldiers. Many swam towards the boats and vessels, which were ordered to give them all manner
of assistance; but by far the greater number were either butchered on the beach, or drowned
in the water: a small body, however, instead of throwing themselves into the sea, retired to
the rock on the left, where they made a stand, until they had exhausted their ammunition, and
then surrendered at discretion The havock was moreover increased by the shot and shells discharged
from the battery which the enemy had raised on the hill. The slaughter would not have been
so great, had not the French soldiers been exasperated by the fire from the frigates, which
was still maintained even after the English troops were routed; but this was no sooner silenced
by a signal from the commodore, than the enemy exhibited a noble example of moderation and
humanity, in granting immediate quarter and protection to the vanquished. About one thousand
chosen men of the English army were killed and taken prisoners on this occasion: nor was the
advantage cheaply purchased by the French troops, among whom the shot and shells from the frigates
and ketches had done great execution. The clemency of the victors was the more remarkable,
as the British troops in this expedition had been shamefully guilty of marauding, pillaging,
burning, and other excesses. War is so dreadful in itself, and so severe in its consequences,
that the exercise of generosity and compassion, by which its horrors are mitigated, ought ever
to be applauded, encouraged, and imitated. We ought also to use our best endeavours to deserve
this treatment at the hands of a civilised enemy. Let us be humane in our turn to those whom
the fate of war has subjected to our power: let us, in prosecuting our military operations,
maintain the most rigid discipline among the troops, and religiously abstain from all acts
of violence and oppression. Thus a laudable emulation will undoubtedly ensue, and the powers
at war vie with each other in humanity and politeness. In other respects the commander of an
invading armament will always find his account in being well with the common people of the
country in which the descent is made. By civil treatment and seasonable gratifications, they
will be encouraged to bring into the camp regular supplies of provision and refreshment; they
will mingle with the soldiers, and even form friendships among them; serve as guides, messengers,
and interpreters; let out their cattle for hire as draft-horses; work with their own persons
as day-labourers; discover proper fords, bridges, roads, passes, and defiles; and, if artfully
managed, communicate many useful hints of intelligence. If great care and circumspection be
not exerted in maintaining discipline, and bridling the licentious dispositions of the soldiers,
such invasions will be productive of nothing but miscarriage and disgrace: for this at best
is but a piratical way of carrying on war; and the troops engaged in it are, in some measure,
debauched by the nature of the service. They are crowded together in transports, where the
minute particulars of military order cannot be observed, even though the good of the service
greatly depends upon a due observance of these forms. The soldiers grow negligent, and inattentive
to cleanness and the exterior ornaments of dress: they become slovenly, slothful, and altogether
unfit for a return of duty: they are tumbled about occasionally in ships and boats, landed
and re-embarked in a tumultuous manner, under a divided and disorderly command: they are accustomed
to retire at the first report of an approaching enemy, and to take shelter on another element;
nay, their small pillaging parties are often obliged to fly before unarmed peasants. Their
duty on such occasions is the most unmanly part of a soldier's office; namely, to ruin, ravage,
and destroy. They soon yield to the temptation of pillage, and are habituated to rapine: they
give loose to intemperance, riot, and intoxication; commit a thousand excesses; and, when the
enemy appears, run on board the ships with their booty. Thus the dignity of the service is
debased; they lose all sense of honour and of shame; they are no longer restricted by military
laws, nor overawed by the authority of officers; in a word, they degenerate into a species
of lawless buccaneers. From such a total relaxation of morals and discipline, what can ensue
but riot, confusion, dishonour, and defeat? All the advantage that can be expected from these
sudden starts of invasion, will scarce overbalance the evils we have mentioned, together with
the extraordinary expense of equipping armaments of this nature. True it is, these descents
oblige the French king to employ a considerable number of his troops for the defence of his
maritime places: they serve to ruin the trade of his subjects, protect the navigation of Great
Britain, and secure its coast from invasion; but these purposes might be as effectually answered,
at a much smaller expense, by the shipping alone. Should it be judged expedient, however, to
prosecute this desultory kind of war, the commanders employed in it will do well to consider,
that a descent ought never to be hazarded in an enemy's country, without having taken proper
precautions to secure a retreat; that the severest discipline ought to be preserved during
all the operations of the campaign; that a general ought never to disembark but upon a well-concerted
plan, nor commence his military transactions without some immediate point or object in view;
that a re-embarkation ought never to be attempted, except from a clear open beach, where the
approaches of an enemy may be seen, and the troops covered by the fire of their shipping. Those
who presume to reflect upon the particulars of this last expedition, owned themselves at a
loss to account for the conduct of the general, in remaining on shore after the design upon
St. Maloes was laid aside; in penetrating so far into the country without any visible object;
neglecting the repeated intelligence which he received; communicating, by beat of drum, his
midnight motions to an enemy of double his force; loitering near seven hours in a march of
three miles; and, lastly, attempting the re-embarkation of the troops at a place where no proper
measures had been taken for their cover and defence. After the action of St. Cas, some civilities,
by message, passed between the duke d'Aiguillon and the English commanders, who were favoured
with a list of the prisoners, including four sea captains; and assured that the wounded should
receive all possible comfort and assistance. These matters being adjusted, commodore Howe returned
with the fleet to Spithead, and the soldiers were disembarked.

The success of the attempt upon Cherbourg had elevated the people to a degree of childish triumph;
and the government thought proper to indulge this petulant spirit of exultation, by exposing
twenty-one pieces of French cannon in Hyde-park, from whence they were drawn in procession
to the Tower, amidst the acclamations of the populace. From this pinnacle of elation and pride
they were precipitated to the abyss of despondence or dejection, by the account of the miscarriage
at St. Cas, which buoyed up the spirits of the French in the same proportion. The people of
that nation began to stand in need of some such cordial after the losses they had sustained,
and the ministry of Versailles did not fail to make the most of this advantage: they published
a pompous narrative of the battle of St. Cas, and magnified into a mighty victory the puny
check which they had given to the rear-guard of an inconsiderable detachment. The people received
it with implicit belief, because it was agreeable to their passions, and congratulated themselves
upon their success in hyperboles, dictated by that vivacity so peculiar to the French nation.
Indeed, these are artifices which the ministers of every nation find it necessary to use at
certain conjunctures, in governing the turbulent and capricious multitude. After the misfortune
at St. Cas, nothing further was attempted by that armament; nor was any enterprise of importance
achieved by the British ships in Europe during the course of this summer. The cruisers, however,
still continued active and alert. Captain Hervey, in the ship Monmouth, destroyed a French
ship of forty guns in the island of Malta; an exploit of which the Maltese loudly complained,
as a violation of their neutrality. About twenty sail of small French vessels were driven ashore
on the rocks of Bretagne, by some cruisers belonging to the fleet commanded by lord Anson,
after a smart engagement with two frigates, under whose convoy they sailed. In the month of
November, the Belliqueux, a French ship of war mounted with sixty-four guns, having by mistake
run up St. George's channel, and anchored in Lundy-road, captain Saumarez of the Antelope,
then lying in King-road, immediately weighed and went in quest of her, according to the advice
he had received. When he appeared, the French captain heaved up his anchor, and made a show
of preparing for an engagement; but soon hauled down his colours, and, without firing a shot,
surrendered, with a complement of four hundred and seventeen men, to a ship of inferior force
both in number of hands and weight of metal. By this time the English privateers swarmed to
such a degree in the channel, that scarce a French vessel durst quit the harbour, and consequently
there was little or no booty to be obtained. In this dearth of legal prizes, some of the adventurers
were tempted to commit acts of piracy, and actually rifled the ships of neutral nations. A
Dutch vessel, having on board the baggage and domestics belonging to the marquis de Pignatelli,
ambassador from the court of Spain to the king of Denmark, was boarded three times successively
by the crews of three different privateers, who forced the hatches, rummaged the hold, broke
open and rifled the trunks and boxes of the ambassador, insulted and even cruelly bruised his
officers, stripped his domestics, and carried off his effects, together with letters of credit,
and a bill of exchange. Complaints of these outrages being made to the court of London, the
lords of the admiralty promised, in the gazette, a reward of five hundred pounds, without deduction,
to any person who should discover the offenders concerned in these acts of piracy. Some of
them were detected accordingly, and brought to condign punishment.

CLAMOURS OF THE DUTCH MERCHANTS, &c.

The Dutch had for some time carried on a very considerable traffic, not only in taking the
fair advantages of their neutrality, but also in supplying the French with naval stores, and
transporting the produce of the French sugar-colonies to Europe, as carriers hired by the proprietors.
The English government, incensed at this unfair commerce, prosecuted with such flagrant partiality
for their enemies, issued orders for the cruisers to arrest all ships of neutral powers that
should have French property on board; and these orders were executed with rigour and severity.
A great number of Dutch ships were taken and condemned as legal prizes, both in England and
Jamaica: sometimes the owners met with hard measures, and some crews were treated with insolence
and barbarity. The subjects of the United Provinces raised a loud clamour against the English,
for having, by these captures, violated the law of nations and the particular treaty of commerce
subsisting between Great Britain and the republic. Remonstrances were made to the English ministry,
who expostulated, in their turn, with the deputies of the states-general; and the two nations
were inflamed against each other with the most bitter animosity. The British resident at the
Hague, in a conference with the states, represented that the king his master could not hope
to see peace speedily re-established, if the neutral princes should assume a right of carrying
on the trade of his enemies; that he expected, from their known justice, and the alliance by
which they were so nearly connected with his subjects, they would honestly abandon this fraudulent
commerce, and agree that naval stores should be comprehended in the class of contraband commodities.
He answered some articles of the complaints they had made with an appearance of candour and
moderation; declared his majesty's abhorrence of the violences which had been committed upon
the subjects of the United Provinces; explained the steps which had been taken by the English
government to bring the offenders to justice, as well as to prevent such outrages for the future;
and assured them that his Britannic majesty had nothing more at heart, than to renew and maintain,
in full force, the mutual confidence and friendship by which the maritime powers of England
and Holland had been so long united.

These professions of esteem and affection were not sufficient to quiet the minds and appease
the resentment of the Dutch merchants; and the French party, which was both numerous and powerful,
employed all their art and influence to exasperate their passions, and widen the breach between
the two nations. The court of Versailles did not fail to seize this opportunity of insinuation:
while, on one hand, their ministers and emissaries in Holland exaggerated the indignities and
injuries which the states had sustained from the insolence and rapacity of the English; they,
on the other hand, flattered and cajoled them with little advantages in trade, and formal professions
of respect.--Such was the memorial delivered by the count d'Affry, intimating that the empress-queen
being under an absolute necessity of employing all her forces to defend her hereditary dominions
in Germany, she had been obliged to withdraw her troops from Ostend and Nieuport, and applied
to the French king, as her ally nearest at hand, to garrison these two places; which, however,
should be restored at the peace, or sooner, should her imperial majesty think proper. The spirit
of the Dutch merchants, at this juncture, and their sentiments with respect to England, appeared
with very high colouring in a memorial to the states-general, subscribed by two hundred and
sixty-nine traders, composed and presented with equal secrecy and circumspection. In this famous
remonstrance they complained, that the violences and unjust depredations committed by the English
ships of war and privateers, on the vessels and effects of them and their fellow-subjects,
were not only continued, but daily multiplied; and cruelty and excess carried to such a pitch
of wanton barbarity, that the petitioners were forced to implore the assistance of their high
mightinesses to protect, in the most efficacious manner, the commerce and navigation, which
were the two sinews of the republic. For this necessary purpose they offered to contribute
each his contingent, and to arm at their own charge; and other propositions were made for an
immediate augmentation of the marine. While this party industriously exerted all their power
and credit to effect a rupture with England, the princess-gouvernante employed all her interest
and address to divert them from this object, and alarm them with respect to the power and designs
of France; against which she earnestly exhorted them to augment their military forces by land,
that they might be prepared to defend themselves against all invasion. At the same time she
spared no pains to adjust the differences between her husband's country and her father's kingdom;
and without doubt, her healing councils were of great efficacy in preventing matters from coming
to a very dangerous extremity.

CHAPTER XV.

     Expedition against Senegal..... Fort Louis and Senegal
     taken..... Unsuccessful attempt upon Goree..... Expedition
     to Cape Breton..... Louisbourg taken..... and  St.
     John's..... Unsuccessful  attempt   upon   Ticonderoga.....
     Fort Frontenac taken and destroyed by the English.....
     Brigadier Forbes takes Fort du Quesne..... Goree taken.....
     Shipwreck of Captain Barton..... Gallant Exploit of Captain
     Tyrrell..... Transactions in the East Indies..... Admiral
     Pococke engages the French Fleet..... Fort St. David's taken
     by the French..... Second Engagement between Admiral Pococke
     and M. d'Apehé..... Progress of M. Lally..... Transactions
     on the Continent of Europe..... King of Prussia raises
     Contributions in Saxony and the Dominions of the Duke of
     Wirtemberg..... State of the Armies on the Continent.....
     The French King changes the Administration of Hanover.....
     Plan of a Treaty between the French King and the Landgrave
     of Hesse-Cassel..... Treaty between the French King and the
     Duke of Brunswick..... Decree of the Aulic Council against
     the Elector of Hanover and others..... Bremen taken by the
     Duke de Broglio, and retaken by Prince Ferdinand..... Duke
     de Richelieu recalled..... Generous Conduct of the Duke de
     Randan..... The French abandon Hanover..... Prince of
     Brunswick reduces Hoya and Minden..... Prince Ferdinand
     defeats the French at Creveldt, and takes Dusseldorp.....
     Prince of Ysembourg defeated by the Duke de Broglio.....
     General Imhoff defeats M. de Chevert..... General Oberg
     defeated by the French at Landwernhagen..... Death of the
     Duke of Marlborough..... Operations of the King of Prussia at
     the  beginning of the  Campaign..... He enters Moravia,  and
     invests Olmutz..... He is obliged to raise the Siege, and
     retires into Bohemia, where he takes Koningsgratz.....
     Progress of the Russians..... King of Prussia defeats the
     Russians at Zorndorf..... and is defeated by the Austrians at
     Hoch-kirchin..... He retires to Silesia..... Suburbs of
     Dresden burned by the Prussian Governor..... The King of
     Prussia raises the Siege of Neiss, and relieves Dresden.....
     Inhabitants of Saxony grievously oppressed..... Progress of
     the Swedes in Pomerania..... Prince Charles of Saxony
     elected Duke of Courland..... The King of England's Memorial
     to the Diet of the Empire..... Death of Pope Benedict.....
     The King of Portugal assassinated..... Proceedings of the
     French Ministry..... Conduct of the King of Denmark.....
     Answers to the Charges brought by the Dutch against the
     English Cruisers..... Conferences between the British
     Ambassador and the States-general..... Further Proceedings

EXPEDITION AGAINST SENEGAL.

The whole strength of Great Britain, during this campaign, was not exhausted in petty descents
upon the coast of France. The continent of America was the great theatre on which her chief
vigour was displayed; nor did she fail to exert herself in successful efforts against the French
settlements on the coast of Africa. The whole gum trade, from Cape Blanco to the river Gambia,
an extent of five hundred miles, had been engrossed by the French, who built Fort Louis within
the mouth of the Senegal, extending their factories near three hundred leagues up that river,
and on the same coast had fortified the island of Goree, in which they maintained a considerable
garrison. The gum senega, of which a great quantity is used by the manufacturers of England,
being wholly in the hands of the enemy, the English dealers were obliged to buy it at second-hand
from the Dutch, who purchased it of the French, and exacted an exorbitant price for that commodity.
This consideration forwarded the plan for annexing the country to the possession of Great Britain.
The project was first conceived by Mr. Thomas Gumming, a sensible quaker, who, as a private
merchant, had made a voyage to Portenderrick, an adjoining part of the coast, and contracted
a personal acquaintance with Amir, the moorish king of Legibelli.*

     * The name the natives give to that part of South Barbary,
     known to merchants and navigators by that of the Gum Coast,
     and called in maps, the Sandy Desert of Sara, and sometimes
     Zaia.

He found this African prince extremely well disposed towards the subjects of Great Britain,
whom he publicly preferred to all other Europeans, and so exasperated against the French, that
he declared he should never be easy till they were exterminated from the river Senegal. At
that very time he had commenced hostilities against them, and earnestly desired that the king
of England would send out an armament to reduce Fort Louis and Goree, with some ships of force
to protect the traders. In that case, he promised to join his Britannic majesty's forces, and
grant an exclusive trade to his subjects. Mr. Gumming not only perceived the advantages that
would result from such an exclusive privilege with regard to the gum, but foresaw many other
important consequences of an extensive trade in a country, which, over and above the gum senega,
contains many valuable articles, such as gold dust, elephants' teeth, hides, cotton, bees'
wax, slaves, ostrich feathers, indigo, ambergris, and civet. Elevated with a prospect of an
acquisition so valuable to his country, this honest quaker was equally minute and indefatigable
in his inquiries touching the commerce of the coast, as well as the strength and situation
of the French settlements on the river Senegal; and, at his return to England, actually formed
the plan of an expedition for the conquest of Fort Louis. This was presented to the board of
trade, by whom it was approved, after a severe examination; but it required the patriotic zeal,
and invincible perseverance of Cumming, to surmount a variety of obstacles before it was adopted
by the ministry; and even then it was not executed in its full extent. He was abridged of one
large ship, and in lieu of six hundred land-forces, to be drafted from different regiments,
which he in vain demanded, first from the duke of Cumberland, and afterwards from lord Ligonier,
the lords of the admiralty allotted two hundred marines only for this service. After repeated
solicitation, he, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven, obtained an order,
that the two annual ships bound to the coast of Guinea should be joined by a sloop and two
busses, and make an attempt upon the French settlement in the river Senegal. These ships, however,
were detained by contrary winds until the season was too far advanced to admit a probability
of success, and therefore the design was postponed. In the beginning of the present year, Mr.
Cumming being reinforced with the interest of a considerable merchant in the city, to whom
he had communicated the plan, renewed his application to the ministry, and they resolved to
hazard the enterprise. A small squadron was equipped for this expedition, under the command
of captain Marsh, having on board a body of marines, commanded by major Mason, with a detachment
of artillery, ten pieces of cannon, eight mortars, and a considerable quantity of warlike stores
and ammunition. Captain Walker was appointed engineer; and Mr. Cumming was concerned as a principal
director and promoter of the expedition.*

     * On this occasion Mr. Cumming may seem to have acted
     directly-contrary to the tenets of his religious profession;
     hut he ever declared to the ministry, that he was fully
     persuaded his schemes might be accomplished without the
     effusion of human blood; and that if he thought otherwise,
     he would by no means have concerned himself about them. He
     also desired, let the consequence be what it might, his
     brethren should not be chargeable with what was his own
     single act.

This little armament sailed in the beginning of March; and in their passage touched at the
island of Teneriffe, where, while the ships supplied themselves with wine and water, Mr. Cumming
proceeded in the Swan sloop to Portenderrick, being charged with a letter of credence to his
old friend the king of that country, who had favoured him in his last visit with an exclusive
trade on that coast, by a former charter, written in the Arabic language. This prince was now
up the country, engaged in a war with his neighbours, called the Diable Moors;* and the queen-dowager,
who remained at Portenderrick, gave Mr. Cumming to understand, that she could not at present
spare any troops to join the English in their expedition against Senegal; but she assured him,
that, should the French be exterminated, she and their subjects would go thither and settle.

     * This is the name by which the subjects of Legibelli
     distinguish those of Brackna, who inhabit the country
     farther up the river Senegal, and are in constant alliance
     with tha French.

In the meantime, one of the chiefs, called prince Amir, despatched a messenger to the king,
with advice of their arrival and design. He declared that he would, with all possible diligence,
assemble three hundred warriors to join the English troops, and that, in his opinion, the king
would reinforce them with a detachment from his army. By this time, captain Marsh, with the
rest of the armament, had arrived at Portenderrick, and fearing that the enemy might receive
intimation of his design, resolved to proceed on the expedition without waiting for the promised
auxiliaries. On the twenty-second clay of April he weighed anchor, and next day, at four o'clock,
discovered the French flag flying upon Fort Louis, situated in the midst of a pretty considerable
town, which exhibited a very agreeable appearance. The commodore having made prize of a Dutch
ship, richly laden with gum, which lay at anchor without the bar, came to anchor in Senegal-road
at the mouth of the river; and here he perceived several armed sloops which the enemy had detached
to defend the passage of the bar, which is extremely dangerous. All the boats were employed
in conveying the stores into the small craft, while three of the sloops continued exchanging
fire over a narrow tongue of land with the vessels of the enemy, consisting of one brig and
six armed sloops, mounted with great guns and swivels. At length the channel being discovered,
and the wind, which generally blows down the river, chopping about, captain Millar, of the
London buss, seized that opportunity; and, passing the bar with a flowing sheet, dropped anchor
on the inside, where he lay till night exposed to the whole fire of the enemy. Next day he
was joined by the other small vessels, and a regular engagement ensued. This was warmly maintained
on both sides, until the busses and one dogger running aground, immediately bulged, and were
filled with water. Then the troops they contained took to their boats, and with some difficulty
reached the shore; when they formed in a body, and were soon joined by their companions from
the other vessels; so that now the whole amounted to three hundred and ninety marines, besides
the detachment of artillery. As they laid their account with being attacked by the natives
who lined the shore at some distance, seemingly determined to oppose the descent, they forthwith
threw up an intrench-ment, and began to disembark the stores, great part of which lay under
water. While they were employed in raising this occasional defence, the negroes came in great
numbers and submitted; and on the succeeding day they were reinforced by three hundred and
fifty seamen, who passed the bar in sloops, with their ensigns and colours flying.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

FORT LOUIS AND SENEGAL TAKEN.

They had made no further progress in their operations, when two French deputies arrived at
the intrench-ment, with proposals for a capitulation from the governor of Fort Louis. After
some hesitation, captain Marsh and major Mason agreed, that all the white people belonging
to the French company at Senegal should be safely conducted to France in an English vessel,
without being deprived of their private effects, provided all the merchandise and uncoined
treasure should be delivered up to the victors; and that all the forts, store-houses, vessels,
arms, provisions, and every article belonging to the company in that river, should be put into
the hands of the English immediately after the capitulation could be signed. They promised
that the free natives living at Fort Louis should remain in quiet possession of their effects,
and in the free exercise of their religion; and that all negroes, mulattoes, and others, who
could prove themselves free, should have it in their option either to remain in the place,
or remove to any other part of the country.*

     * The victors, however, committed a very great mistake in
     allowing them to carry off their books and accounts, the
     perusal of which would have been of infinite service to the
     English merchants, by informing them of the commodities,
     their value, the proper seasons, and methods of prosecuting
     the trade.

The captains Campbell and Walker were immediately sent up the river with a flag of truce, to
see the articles signed and executed; but they were so retarded by the rapidity of the stream,
that they did not approach the fort till three in the morning. As soon as the day broke they
hoisted their flag, and rowed up towards a battery on a point of the island, where they lay
upon their oars very near a full hour, beating the chamade; but no notice was taken of their
approach. This reserve appearing mysterious, they retired down the river to their in-trenchment,
where they understood that the negroes on the island were in arms, and had blocked up the French
in Fort Louis, resolving to defend the place to the last extremity, unless they should be included
in the capitulation. This intelligence was communicated in a second letter from the governor,
who likewise informed the English commander, that unless the French director-general should
be permitted to remain with the natives, as a surety for that article of the capitulation in
which they were concerned, they would allow themselves to be cut in pieces rather than submit.
This request being granted, the English forces began their march to Fort Louis, accompanied
by a number of long boats, in which the artillery and stores had been embarked. The French
seeing them advance, immediately struck their flag; and major Mason took possession of the
castle, where he found ninety-two pieces of cannon, with treasure and merchandise to a considerable
value. The corporation and burghers of the town of Senegal submitted, and swore allegiance
to his Britannic majesty: the neighbouring princes, attended by numerous retinues, visited
the commander, and concluded treaties with the English nation; and the king of Portenderrick,
or Legibelli, sent an ambassador from his camp to major Mason, with presents, compliments of
congratulation, and assurances of friendship. The number of free independent negroes and mulattoes,
settled at Senegal, amounted to three thousand; and many of these enjoyed slaves and possessions
of their own. The two French factories of Podore and Galam, the latter situated nine hundred
miles farther up the river, were included in the capitulation; so that Great Britain, almost
without striking a blow, found herself possessed of a conquest, from which, with proper management,
she may derive inconceivable riches. This important acquisition was in a great measure, if
not entirely, owing to the sagacity, zeal, and indefatigable efforts of Mr. Cumming, who not
only formed the plan, and solicited the armament, but also attended the execution of it in
person, at the hazard of his life, and to the interruption of his private concerns.

Fort Louis being secured with an English garrison, and some armed vessels left to guard the
passage of the bar, at the mouth of the river, the great ships proceeded to make an attempt
upon the island of Goree, which lies at the distance of thirty leagues from Senegal. There
the French company had considerable magazines and warehouses, and lodged the negro slaves until
they could be shipped for the West Indies. If the additional force which Mr. Cumming proposed
for the conquest of this island had been added to the armament, in all probability the island
would have been reduced, and in that case the nation would have saved the considerable expense
of a subsequent expedition against it, under the conduct of commodore Keppel. At present, the
ships by which Goree was attacked were found unequal to the attempt, and the expedition miscarried
accordingly, though the miscarriage was attended with little or no damage to the assailants.

EXPEDITION TO CAPE-BRETON.

Scenes of still greater importance were acted in North America, where, exclusive of the fleet
and marines, the government had assembled about fifty thousand men, including two-and-twenty
thousand regular troops. The earl of Loudoun having returned to England, the chief command
in America devolved on major-general Abercrombie; but as the objects of operation were various,
the forces were divided into three detached bodies, under as many different commanders. About
twelve thousand were destined to undertake the siege of Louisbourg, on the island of Cape-Breton.
The general himself reserved near sixteen thousand for the reduction of Crown-Point, a fort
situated on lake Champlain; eight thousand under the conduct of brigadier-general Forbes, were
allotted for the conquest of Fort du Quesne, which stood a great way to the southward, near
the river Ohio; and a considerable garrison was left at Annapolis, in Nova-Scotia. The reduction
of Louisbourg and the island of Cape-Breton being an object of immediate consideration, was
undertaken with all possible despatch. Major-general Amherst being joined by admiral Boscawen
with the fleet and forces from England, the whole armament, consisting of one hundred and fifty-seven
sail, took their departure from the harbour of Halifax, in Nova-Scotia, on the twenty-eighth
of May; and on the second of June part of the transports anchored in the bay of Gabarus, about
seven miles to the westward of Louisbourg. The garrison of this place, commanded by the chevalier
Dru-cour, consisted of two thousand five hundred regular troops, three hundred militia, formed
of the burghers, and towards the end of the siege they were reinforced by three hundred and
fifty Canadians, including threescore Indians. The harbour was secured by six ships of the
line, and five frigates,* three of which the enemy sunk across the harbour's mouth, in order
to render it inaccessible to the English shipping.

     * The Prudent, of seventy-four guns; the Entreprenant, of
     seventy-four guns; the Capricieux, Célèbre, and Bienfaisant,
     of sixty-four guns each; the Apollo, of fifty guns; the
     Cheyre, Riche, Fidelle, Diana, and Echo, frigates.

The fortifications were in bad repair, many parts of them crumbling down the covered way, and
several bastions exposed in such a manner as to be enfiladed by the besiegers, and no part
of the town secure from the effects of cannonading and bombardment. The governor had taken
all the precautions in his power to prevent a landing, by establishing a chain of posts, that
extended two leagues and a half along the most inaccessible part of the beach; intrench-ments
were thrown up, and batteries erected; but there were some intermediate places, which could
not be properly secured, and in one of these the English troops were disembarked. The disposition
being made for landing, a detachment, in several sloops under convoy, passed by the mouth of
the harbour towards Lorembec, in order to draw the enemy's attention that way, while the landing
should really be effected on the other side of the town. On the eighth day of June, the troops
being assembled in the boats before day-break, in three divisions, several sloops and frigates,
that were stationed along shore in the bay of Gabarus, began to scour the beach with their
shot; and after the fire had continued about a quarter of an hour, the boats, containing the
division on the left, were rowed toward the shore, under the command of brigadier-general Wolfe,
an accomplished officer, who, in the sequel, displayed very extraordinary proofs of military
genius. At the same time the two other divisions, on the right and in the centre, commanded
by the brigadiers Whitmore and Laurence, made a show of landing, in order to divide and distract
the enemy. Notwithstanding an impetuous surf, by which many boats were overset, and a very
severe fire of cannon and musketry from the enemy's batteries, which did considerable execution,
brigadier Wolfe pursued his point with admirable courage and deliberation. The soldiers leaped
into the water with the most eager alacrity, and, gaining the shore, attacked the enemy in
such a manner, that in a few minutes they abandoned their works and artillery, and fled in
the utmost confusion. The other divisions landed also, but not without an obstinate opposition;
and the stores, with the artillery, being brought on shore, the town of Louisbourg was formally
invested. The difficulty of landing stores and implements in boisterous weather, and the nature
of the ground, which being marshy, was unfit for the conveyance of heavy cannon, retarded the
operations of the siege. Mr. Amherst made his approaches with great circumspection, securing
his camp with redoubts and epaulements from any attacks of Canadians, of which he imagined
there was a considerable body behind him on the island, as well as from the fire of the French
shipping in the harbour which would otherwise have annoyed him extremely in his advances.

LOUISBOURG TAKEN.

The governor of Louisbourg having destroyed the grand battery, which was detached from the
body of the place, and recalled his out-posts, prepared for making a vigorous defence. A very
severe fire, well directed, was maintained against the besiegers and their works, from the
town, the island battery, and the ships in the harbour; and divers sallies were made, though
without much effect. In the meantime brigadier Wolfe, with a strong detachment, had marched
round the north-east part of the harbour, and taken possession of the Lighthouse-point, where
he erected several batteries against the ships and the island fortification, which last was
soon silenced. On the nineteenth day of June, the Echo, a French frigate, was taken by the
English cruisers, after having escaped from the harbour. From the officers on board of this
ship the admiral learned that the Bizarre, another frigate, had sailed from thence on the day
of the disembarkation, and the Comète had successfully followed her example. Besides the regular
approaches to the town, conducted by the engineers under the immediate command and inspection
of general Amherst, divers batteries were raised by the detached corps under brigadier Wolfe,
who exerted himself with amazing activity, and grievously incommoded the enemy, both of the
town and shipping. On the twenty-first day of July the three great ships, the Entreprenant,
Capricieux, and Célèbre, were set on fire by a bomb-shell, and burned to ashes, so that none
remained but the Prudent and Bienfaisant, which the admiral undertook to destroy. For this
purpose, in the night between the twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth days of the month, the boats
of the squadron were in two divisions detached into the harbour, under the command of two young
captains, Laforey and Balfour. They accordingly penetrated in the dark through a terrible fire
of cannon and musketry, and boarded the enemy sword in hand. The Prudent, being aground, was
set on fire and destroyed, but the Bienfaisant was towed out of the harbour in triumph. In
the prosecution of the siege, the admiral and general co-operated with remarkable harmony;
the former cheerfully assisting the latter with cannon and other implements; with detachments
of marines to maintain posts on shore, with parties of seamen to act as pioneers, and concur
in working the guns and mortars. The fire of the town was managed with equal skill and activity,
and kept up with great perseverance; until, at length, their shipping being all taken and destroyed,
the caserns ruined in two principal bastions,* forty out of fifty-two pieces of cannon dismounted,
broke, or rendered unserviceable, and divers practicable breaches effected, the governor, in
a letter to Mr. Amherst, proposed a capitulation on the same articles that were granted to
the English at Port-Mahon.

     * It may not be amiss to observe, that a cavalier, which
     admiral Knowles had built at an enormous expense to the
     nation, while Louisbourg remained in the hands of the
     English in the last war, was, in the course of this siege,
     entirely demolished by two or three shots from one of the
     British batteries; so admirably had this piece of
     fortification been contrived and executed, under the eye of
     that profound engineer.

In answer to this proposal he was given to understand, that he and his garrison must surrender
themselves prisoners of war, otherwise he might next morning expect a general assault by the
shipping under admiral Boscawen. The chevalier Dru-cour, piqued at the severity of these terms,
replied, that he would, rather than comply with them, stand an assault; but the commissary-general,
and intendant of the colony, presented a petition from the traders and inhabitants of the place,
in consequence of which he submitted. On the twenty-seventh day of July, three companies of
grenadiers, commanded by major Farquhar, took possession of the western gate; and brigadier
Whitmore was detached into the town, to see the garrison lay down their arms, and deliver up
their colours on the esplanade, and to post the necessary guards on the stores, magazines,
and ramparts. Thus, at the expense of about four hundred men killed and wounded, the English
obtained possession of the important island of Cape-Breton, and the strong town of Louisbourg,
in which the victors found two hundred and twenty-one pieces of cannon, with eighteen mortars,
and a considerable quantity of stores and ammunition. The merchants and inhabitants were sent
to France in English bottoms; but the garrison, together with the sea-officers, marines, and
mariners, amounting in all to five thousand six hundred and thirty-seven prisoners, were transported
to England. The loss of Louisbourg was the more severely felt by the French king, as it had
been attended by the destruction of so many considerable ships and frigates. The particulars
of this transaction were immediately brought to England in a vessel despatched for that purpose,
with captain Amherst, brother to the commander, who was also intrusted with eleven pair of
colours taken at Louisbourg; these were, by his majesty's order, carried in pompous parade,
escorted by detachments of horse and foot-guards, with kettle-drums and trumpets, from the
palace of Kensington to St. Paul's cathedral, where they were deposited as trophies, under
a discharge of cannon, and other noisy expressions of triumph and exultation. Indeed, the public
rejoicings for the conquest of Louisbourg were diffused through every part of the British dominions,
and addresses of congratulation were presented to the king, by a great number of flourishing
towns and corporations.

After the reduction of Cape-Breton, some ships were detached, with a body of troops under the
command of lieutenant-colonel lord Rollo, to take possession of the island of St. John, which
also lies in the gulf of St. Laurence, and by its fertility in corn and cattle, had, since
the beginning of the war, supplied Quebec with considerable quantities of provisions. It was
likewise the asylum to which the French neutrals of Annapolis fled for shelter from the English
government; and the retreat from whence they and the Indians used to make their sudden irruptions
into Nova-Scotia, where they perpetrated the most inhuman barbarities on the defenceless subjects
of Great Britain. The number of inhabitants amounted to four thousand one hundred, who submitted
and brought in their arms; then lord Rollo took possession of the governor's quarters, where
he found several scalps of Englishmen, whom the savages had assassinated, in consequence of
the encouragement they received from their French patrons and allies, who gratified them with
a certain premium for every scalp they produced. The island was stocked with above ten thousand
head of black cattle, and some of the farmers raised each twelve hundred bushels of corn annually
for the market of Quebec.

ATTEMPT UPON TICONDEROGA.

The joy and satisfaction arising from the conquest of Louisbourg and St. John, was not a little
checked by the disaster which befel the main body of the British forces in America, under the
immediate conduct of general Abercrombie, who, as we have already observed, had proposed the
reduction of the French forts on the lakes George and Champlain, as the chief objects of his
enterprise, with a view to secure the frontier of the British colonies, and open a passage
for the future conquest of Canada. In the beginning of July his forces, amounting to near seven
thousand regular troops, and ten thousand provincials, embarked on the lake George, in the
neighbourhood of lake Champlain, on board of nine hundred batteaux, and one hundred and thirty-five
whale-boats, with provisions, artillery, and ammunition; several pieces of cannon being mounted
on rafts to cover the purposed landing, which was next day effected without opposition. The
general's design was to invest: Ticonderoga, a fort situated on a tongue of land, extending
between lake George and a narrow gut that communicates with lake Champlain. This fortification
was on three sides surrounded with water, and in front nature had secured it with a morass.
The English troops being disembarked, were immediately formed into three columns, and began
their march to the enemy's advanced post, consisting of one battalion, encamped behind a breast-work
of logs, which they now abandoned with precipitation, after having set them on fire, and burned
their tents and implements. The British forces continued their march in the same order; but
the route lying through a thick wood that did not admit of any regular progression or passage,
and the guides proving extremely ignorant, the troops were bewildered, and the columns broken
by falling in one upon another. Lord Howe being advanced at the head of the right centre column,
encountered a French detachment who had likewise lost their way in the retreat from the advanced
post, and a warm skirmish ensuing, the enemy were routed with considerable loss, a good number
were killed, and one hundred and forty-eight were taken prisoners, including five officers.
This petty advantage was dearly bought with the loss of lord Howe, who fell in the beginning
of the action, unspeakably regretted as a young nobleman of the most promising talents, who
had distinguished himself in a peculiar manner by his courage, activity, and rigid observation
of military discipline, and had acquired the esteem and affection of the soldiery by his generosity,
sweetness of manners, and engaging address. The general perceiving the troops were greatly
fatigued and disordered, from want of rest and refreshment, thought it advisable to march back
to the landing-place, which they reached about eight in the morning. Then he detached lieutenant-colonel
Bradstreet, with one regular regiment, six companies of the Royal Americans, with the batteaux-men,
and a body of rangers, to take possession of a saw-mill in the neighbourhood of Ticonderoga,
which the enemy had abandoned. This post being secured, the general advanced again towards
Ticonderoga, where, he understood from the prisoners, the enemy had assembled eight battalions,
with a body of Canadians and Indians, amounting in all to six thousand. These, they said, being
encamped before the fort, were employed in making a formidable intrenchment, where they intended
to wait for a reinforcement of three thousand men, who had been detached under the command
of M. de Levi, to make a diversion on the side of the Mohawk river;* but, upon intelligence
of Mr. Abercrombie's approach, were now recalled for the defence of Ticonderoga.

     * This officer intended to have made an irruption through
     the pass of Oneida on the Mohawk river, but was recalled
     before he could execute his design. General Abercrombie
     afterwards sent thither brigadier Stanwix, with a
     considerable body of provincials, and this important pass
     was secured by a fort built at that juncture.

This information determined the English general to strike, if possible, some decisive stroke
before the junction could be effected. He therefore, early next morning, sent his engineer
across the river on the opposite side of the fort, to reconnoitre the enemy's intrenchments;
and he reported that the works being still unfinished, might be attempted with a good prospect
of success. A disposition was made accordingly for the attack, and, after proper guards had
been left at the saw-mill and the landing-place, the whole army was put in motion. They advanced
with great alacrity towards the intrenchment, which, however, they found altogether impracticable.
The breastwork was raised eight feet high, and the ground before it covered with an abbatis,
of felled trees, with their boughs pointing outwards, and projecting in such a manner as to
render the intrenchment almost inaccessible. Notwithstanding these discouraging difficulties,
the British troops marched up to the assault with an undaunted resolution, and sustained a
terrible fire without flinching. They endeavoured to cut their way through these embarrassments
with their swords, and some of them even mounted the parapet; but the enemy were so well covered,
that they could deliberately direct their fire without the least danger to themselves: the
carnage was therefore considerable, and the troops began to fall into confusion, after several
repeated attacks, which lasted above four hours, under the most disadvantageous circumstances.
The general, by this time, saw plainly that no hope of success remained; and, in order to prevent
a total defeat, took measures for the retreat of the army, which retired unmolested to their
former camp, with the loss of about eighteen hundred men killed or wounded, including a great
number of officers. Every corps of regular troops behaved, on this unfortunate occasion, with
remarkable intrepidity; but the greatest loss was sustained by lord John Murray's Highland
regiment, of which above one half of the private men, and twenty-five officers, were either
slain upon the spot, or desperately wounded. Mr. Abercrombie, unwilling to stay in the neighbourhood
of the enemy with forces which had received such a dispiriting check, retired to his batteaux,
and re-embarking the troops, returned to the camp at lake George, from whence he had taken
his departure. Censure, which always attends miscarriage, did not spare the character of this
commander; his attack was condemned as rash, and his retreat as pusillanimous. In such a case
allowances must be made for the peevishness of disappointment, and the clamour of connexion.
How far Mr. Abercrombie acquitted himself in the duty of a general we shall not pretend to
determine; but if he could depend upon the courage and discipline of his forces, he surely
had nothing to fear, after the action, from the attempts of the enemy, to whom he would have
been superior in number, even though they had been joined by the expected reinforcement; he
might therefore have remained on the spot, in order to execute some other enterprise when he
should be reinforced in his turn; for general Amherst no sooner heard of his disaster, than
he returned with the troops from Cape-Breton to New England, after having left a strong garrison
in Louis-bourg. At the head of six regiments he began his march to Albany about the middle
of September, in order to join the forces on the lake, that they might undertake some other
service before the season should be exhausted.

FORT FRONTENAC TAKEN AND DESTROYED BY THE ENGLISH.

In the meantime, general Abercrombie had detached lieutenant-colonel Bradstreet, with a body
of three thousand men, chiefly provincials, to execute a plan which this officer had formed
against Cadaraqui, or fort Frontenac, situated on the north side of the river St. Laurence,
just where it takes its origin from the lake Ontario. To the side of this lake he penetrated
with his detachment, and embarking in some sloops and batteaux, provided for the purpose, landed
within a mile of fort Frontenac, the garrison of which, consisting of one hun dred and ten
men, with a few Indians, immediately surrendered at discretion. Considering the importance
of this post, which in a great measure commanded the mouth of the river St. Laurence, and served
as a magazine to the more southern castles, the French general was inexcusable for leaving
it in such a defenceless condition. The fortification itself was inconsiderable and ill-contrived;
nevertheless, it contained sixty pieces of cannon, sixteen small mortars, with an immense quantity
of merchandise and provisions, deposited for the use of the French forces detached against
brigadier Forbes, their western garrisons, and Indian allies, as well as for the subsistence
of the corps commanded by M. de Levi, on his enterprise against the Mohawk river. Mr. Bradstreet
not only reduced the fort without bloodshed, but also made himself master of all the enemy's
shipping on the lake, amounting to nine armed vessels, some of which carried eighteen guns.
Two of these Mr. Bradstreet conveyed to Oswego, whither he returned with his troops, after
he had destroyed fort Frontenac, with all the artillery, stores, provisions, and merchandise,
which it contained. In consequence of this exploit, the French troops to the southward were
exposed to the hazard of starving; hut it is not easy to conceive the general's reason for
giving orders to abandon and destroy a fort, which, if properly strengthened and sustained,
might have rendered the English masters of the lake Ontario, and grievously harassed the enemy
both in their commerce and expeditions to the westward. Indeed, great part of the Indian trade
centered at Frontenac, to which place the Indians annually repaired from all parts of America,
some of them at the distance of a thousand miles, and here exchanged their furs for European
commodities. So much did the French traders excel the English in the art of conciliating the
affection of those savage tribes, that great part of them, in their yearly progress to this
remote market, actually passed by the British settlement of Albany, in New York, where they
might have been supplied with what articles they wanted, much cheaper than they could purchase
them at Frontenac or Montreal; nay, the French traders used to furnish themselves with those
very commodities from the merchants of New York, and found this traffic much more profitable
than that of procuring the same articles from France, loaded with the expense of a tedious
and dangerous navigation, from the sea to the source of the river St. Laurence.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

BRIGADIER FORBES TAKES FORT DU QUESNE.

In all probability, the destruction of Frontenac facilitated the expedition against Fort du
Quesne, intrusted to the conduct of brigadier Forbes, who, with his little army, began his
march in the beginning of July from Philadelphia for the river Ohio, a prodigious tract of
country very little known, destitute of military roads, incumbered with mountains, morasses,
and woods, that were almost impenetrable. It was not without incredible exertion of industry,
that he procured provisions and carriages for this expedition, formed new roads, extended scouting
parties, secured camps, and surmounted many other difficulties in the course of his tedious
march, during which he was also harassed by small detachments of the enemy's Indians. Having
penetrated with the main body as far as Ray's-Town, at the distance of ninety miles from Fort
du Quesne, and advanced colonel Bouquet with two thousand men, about fifty miles farther, to
a place called Lyal-Henning, this officer detached major Grant at the head of eight hundred
men, to reconnoitre the fort and its out-works. The enemy perceiving him approach, sent a body
of troops against him, sufficient to surround his whole detachment; a very severe action began,
which the English maintained with their usual courage for three hours, against cruel odds;
but at length, being overpowered by numbers, they were obliged to give way, and retired in
disorder to Lyal-Henning, with the loss of about three hundred men killed or taken, including
major Grant, who was carried prisoner to Fort du Quesne, and nineteen officers. Notwithstanding
this mortifying check, brigadier Forbes advanced with the army, resolved to prosecute his operations
with vigour; but the enemy, dreading the prospect of a siege, dismantled and abandoned the
fort, and retired down the river Ohio, to their settlements on the Mississippi. They quitted
the fort on the twenty-fourth day of November, and next clay it was possessed by the British
forces. As for the Indians of this country, they seemed heartily to renounce their connexions
with France, and be perfectly reconciled to the government of his Britannic majesty. Brigadier
Forbes having repaired the fort, changed its name from du Quesne to Pittsburgh, secured it
with a garrison of provincials, and concluded treaties of friendship and alliance with the
Indian tribes. Then he marched back to Philadelphia, and in his retreat built a block-house,
near Lyal-Henning, for the defence of Pennsylvania; but he himself did not long survive these
transactions, his Constitution having been exhausted by the incredible fatigues of the service.--Thus
have we given a particular detail of all the remarkable operations by which this campaign was
distinguished on the continent of America; the reader will be convinced, that, notwithstanding
the defeat of Ticonderoga, and the disaster of the advanced party in the neighbourhood of Fort
du Quesne, the arms of Great Britain acquired many important advantages; and indeed paved the
way for the reduction of Quebec, and the conquest of all Canada. In the meantime, the admirals
Boscawen and Hardy, having left a considerable squadron at Halifax in Nova-Scotia, returned
with four ships of the line to England, where they arrived in the beginning of November, after
having given chase to six large French ships, which they descried to the westward of Scilly,
but could not overtake or bring to an engagement.

The conquest of the French settlement in the river Senegal being deemed imperfect and incomplete,
whilst France still kept possession of the island of Goree, the ministry of Great Britain resolved
to crown the campaign in Africa with the reduction of that fortress. For this purpose commodore
Keppel, brother to the earl of Albemarle, was vested with the command of a squadron, consisting
of four ships of the line, several frigates, two bomb-ketches, and some transports, having
on board seven hundred men of the regular troops, commanded by colonel Worge, and embarked
in the harbour of Cork in Ireland, from whence this whole armament took its departure on the
eleventh day of November. After a tempestuous passage, in which they touched at the isle of
Teneriffe, they arrived at Goree in the latter end of December, and the commodore made a disposition
for attacking this island, which was remarkably strong by nature, but very indifferently fortified.
Goree is a small barren island, extending about three quarters of a mile in length, of a triangular
form; and on the south-west side rising into a rocky hill, on which the paltry fort of St.
Michael is situated. There is another still more inconsiderable, called St. Francis, towards
the other extremity of the island; and several batteries were raised around its sweep, mounted
with about one hundred pieces of cannon, and four mortars. The French governor, M. de St. Jean,
had great plenty of ammunition, and his garrison amounted to about three hundred men, exclusive
of as many negro inhabitants. The flat-bottomed boats, for disembarking the troops, being hoisted
out, and disposed alongside of the different transports, the commodore stationed his ships
on the west side of the island, and the engagement began with a shell from one of the ketches.
This was a signal for the great ships, which poured in their broadsides without intermission,
and the fire was returned with equal vivacity from all the batteries of the island. In the
course of the action the cannonading from the ships became so severe and terrible, that the
French garrison deserted their quarters, in spite of all the efforts of the governor, who acquitted
himself like a man of honour; but he was obliged to strike his colours, and surrender at discretion,
after a short but warm dispute, in which the loss of the British commodore did not exceed one
hundred men killed and wounded. The success of the day was the more extraordinary, as the French
garrison had not lost a man, except one negro killed by the bursting of a bomb-shell, and the
number of their wounded was very inconsiderable. While the attack lasted, the opposite shore
of the continent was lined with a concourse of negroes, assembled to view the combat, who expressed
their sentiments and surprise in loud clamour and tin-couth gesticulations, and seemed to be
impressed with awe and astonishment at the power and execution of the British squadron. The
French colours being struck, as a signal of submission, the commodore sent a detachment of
marines on shore, who disarmed the garrison, and hoisted the British flag upon the castle of
St. Michael. In the meantime, the governor and the rest of the prisoners were secured among
the shipping. Thus the important island of Goree fell into the hands of the English, together
with two trading vessels that chanced to be at anchor in the road; and stores, money, and merchandise,
to the value of twenty thousand pounds. Part of the troops being left in garrison at Goree,
under the command of major Newton, together with three sloops for his service, the squadron,
being watered and refreshed from the continent, that part of which is governed by one of the
Jalof kings, and the prisoners, with their baggage, being dismissed in three cartel ships to
France, the commodore set sail for Senegal, and reinforced fort Louis with the rest of the
troops, under colonel Worge, who was at this juncture favoured with a visit by the king of
Legibelli; but very little pains were taken to dismiss this potentate in good humour, or maintain
the disposition he professed to favour the commerce of Great Britain. True it is, he was desirous
of engaging the English in his quarrels with some neighbouring nations; and such engagements
were cautiously and politically avoided, because it was the interest of Great Britain to be
upon good terms with every African prince who could promote and extend the commerce of her
subjects.

SHIPWRECK OF CAPTAIN BARTON.

Commodore Keppel having reduced Goree, and reinforced the garrison of Senegal, returned to
England, where all his ships arrived, after a very tempestuous voyage, in which the squadron
had been dispersed. This expedition, however successful in the main, was attended with one
misfortune, the loss of the Lichfield ship of war, commanded by captain Barton, which, together
with one transport and a bomb-tender, was wrecked on the coast of Barbary, about nine leagues
to the northward of Saffy, in the dominions of Morocco. One hundred and thirty men, including
several officers, perished on this occasion; but the captain and the rest of the company, to
the number of two hundred and twenty, made shift to reach the shore, where they ran the risk
of starving, and were cruelly used by the natives, although a treaty of peace at that time
subsisted between Great Britain and Morocco; nay, they were even enslaved by the emperor, who
detained them in captivity until they were ransomed by the British government: so little dependence
can be placed on the faith of such barbarian princes, with whom it is even a disgrace for any
civilized nation to be in alliance, whatever commercial advantages may arise from the connexion.

GALLANT EXPLOIT OF CAPTAIN TYRREL.

The incidents of the war that happened in the West Indies, during these occurrences, may be
reduced to a small compass. Nothing extraordinary was achieved in the neighbourhood of Jamaica,
where admiral Coats commanded a small squadron, from which he detached cruisers occasionally
for the protection of the British commerce; and at Antigua the trade was effectually secured
by the vigilance of captain Tyrrel, whose courage and activity were equal to his conduct and
circumspection. In the month of March, this gentleman, with his own ship the Buckingham, and
the Cambridge, another of the line, demolished a fort on the island of Martinique, and destroyed
four privateers riding under its protection; but his valour appeared much more conspicuous
in a subsequent engagement, which happened in the month of November. Being detached on a cruise
in his own ship, the Buckingham, by commodore Moore, who commanded at the Leeward Islands,
he fell in with the Weazle sloop, commanded by captain Boles, between the islands of Montserrat
and Gaudaloupe, and immediately discovered a fleet of nineteen sail, under convoy of a French
ship of war carrying seventy-four cannon, and two large frigates. Captain Tyrrel immediately
gave chase with all the sail he could carry, and the Weazle running close to the enemy, received
a whole broadside from the large ship, which, however, she sustained without much damage; nevertheless,
Mr. Tyrrel ordered her commander to keep aloof, as he could not be supposed able to bear the
shock of large metal, and he himself prepared for the engagement. The enemy's large ship, the
Florissant, though of much greater force than the Buckingham, instead of lying-to for his coming
up, made a running fight with her stern-chase, while the two frigates annoyed him in his course,
sometimes raking him fore and aft, and sometimes lying on his quarter. At length he came alongside
of the Florissant, within pistol shot, and poured in a whole broadside, which did considerable
execution. The salutation was returned with equal vivacity, and a furious engagement ensued.
Captain Tyrrel was wounded in the face, and lost three fingers of his right hand; so that,
being entirely disabled, he was obliged to delegate the command of the ship to his first lieutenant,
Mr. Marshal, who continued the battle with great gallantry until he lost his life; then the
charge devolved to the second lieutenant, who acquitted himself with equal honour, and sustained
a desperate fight against three ships of the enemy. The officers and crew of the Buckingham
exerted themselves with equal vigour and deliberation, and captain Troy, who commanded a detachment
of marines on the poop, plied his small arms so effectually, as to drive the French from their
quarters. At length, confusion, terror, and uproar, prevailing on board the Florissant, her
firing ceased, and her colours were hauled down about twilight; but her commander perceiving
that the Buckingham was too much damaged in her rigging to pursue in any hope of success, ordered
all his sails to be set, and fled in the dark with his two consorts. Nothing but this circumstance
could have prevented a British ship of sixty-five guns, indifferently manned in respect to
numbers, from taking a French ship of the line, mounted with seventy-four pieces of cannon,
provided with seven hundred men, and assisted by two large frigates, one of thirty-eight guns,
and the other wanting two of this number. The loss of the Buckingham, in this action, did not
exceed twenty men killed and wounded; whereas the number of the slain on board the Florissant
did not fall short of one hundred and eighty, and that of her wounded is said to have exceeded
three hundred. She was so disabled in her hull, that she could hardly be kept afloat until
she reached Martinique, where she was repaired; and the largest frigate, together with the
loss of forty men, received such damage as to be for some time quite unserviceable.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST INDIES.

In the East Indies the transactions of the war were chequered with a variety of success; but,
on the whole, the designs of the enemy were entirely defeated. The French commander, M. de
Bussy, had, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six, quarrelled with Salabatzing,
viceroy of Decan, because this last would not put him in possession of the fortress of Golconda.
In the course of the next year, while the English forces were employed in Bengal, M. de Bussy
made himself master of the British factories of Ingeram, Bandermalanka, and Vizagapatam, and
the reduction of this last left the enemy in possession of the whole coast of Coro-mandel,
from Ganjam to Massulapatam. While a body of the English company's forces, under captain Caillaud,
endeavoured to reduce the important fortress and town of Madura, the French, under M. d'Anteuil,
invested Trichinopoly. Caillaud no sooner received intelligence of the danger to which this
place was exposed, than he hastened to its relief, and obliged the enemy to abandon the siege.
Then he returned to Madura, and, after an unsuccessful assault, made himself master of it by
capitulation. During these transactions, colonel Forde made an attempt upon the fort of Nelloure,
a strong place at the distance of twenty-four miles from Madras, but miscarried; and this was
also the fate of an expedition against Wandewash, undertaken by colonel Aldercron. The first
was repulsed in storming the place, the other was anticipated by the French army, which marched
from Pondicherry to the relief of the garrison. The French king had sent a considerable reinforcement
to the East Indies, under the command of general Lally, an officer of Irish extraction, together
with such a number of ships as rendered the squadron of M. d'Apché superior to that of admiral
Pococke, who had succeeded admiral Watson, lately deceased, in the command of the English squadron
stationed on the coast of Coromandel, which, in the beginning of this year, was reinforced
from England with several ships, under the direction of commodore Stevens. Immediately after
this junction, which was effected in the road of Madras on the twenty-fourth day of March,
admiral Pococke, who had already signalized himself by his courage, vigilance, and conduct,
sailed to windward, with a view to intercept the French squadron, of which he had received
intelligence. In two days he descried in the road of fort St. David the enemy's fleet, consisting
of nine ships, which immediately stood out to sea, and formed the line of battle a-head. The
admiral took the same precaution, and bearing down upon M. d'Apché, the engagement began about
three in the afternoon. The French commodore, having sustained a warm action for about two
hours, bore away with his whole fleet, and being joined by two ships, formed a line of battle
again to leeward. Admiral Pococke's own ship, and some others, being greatly damaged in their
masts and rigging, two of his captains having misbehaved in the action, and night coming on,
he did not think it advisable to pursue them with all the sail he could carry; but, nevertheless,
he followed them at a proper distance, standing to the south-west, in order to maintain the
weather-gage, in case he should be able to renew the action in the morning. In this expectation,
however, he was disappointed; the enemy showed no lights, nor made any signals that could be
observed; and in the morning not the least vestige of them appeared. Mr. Pococke, on the supposition
that they had weathered him in the night, endeavoured to work up after them to windward; but
finding he lost ground considerably, he dropped anchor about three leagues to the northward
of Madras, and received intelligence from the chief of that settlement, that one of the largest
French ships, having been disabled in the engagement, was run ashore to the southward of Alem-parve,
where their whole squadron lay at anchor. Such was the issue of the first action between the
English and French squadrons in the East Indies, which, over and above the loss of a capital
ship, is said to have cost the enemy about five hundred men, whereas the British admiral did
not lose one-fifth part of that number. Being dissatisfied with the behaviour of three captains,
he, on his return to Madras, appointed a court-martial to inquire into their conduct; two were
dismissed from the service, and the third was sentenced to lose one year's rank as a post-captain.

In the meantime, Mr. Lally had disembarked his troops at Pondicherry, and, taking the field,
immediately invested the fort of St. David, while the squadron blocked it up by sea, Two English
ships being at anchor in the road when the enemy arrived, their captains seeing no possibility
of escaping, ran them on shore, set them on fire, and retired with their men into the fortress,
which, however, was in a few days surrendered. A much more resolute defence was expected from
the courage and conduct of major Polier, who commanded the garrison. When he arrived at Madras
he was subjected to a court of inquiry, which acquitted him of cowardice, but were of opinion
that the place might have held out much longer, and that the terms on which it surrendered
were shameful, as the enemy were not even masters of the outward covered way, as they had made
no breach, and had a wet ditch to fill up and pass, before the town could have been properly
assaulted. Polier, in order to wipe off this disgrace, desired to serve as a volunteer with
colonel Draper, and was mortally wounded in a sally at the siege of Madras. Admiral Pococke
having, to the best of his power, repaired his shattered ships, set sail again on the tenth
of May, in order to attempt the relief of fort St. David's; but, notwithstanding his utmost
endeavours, he could not reach it in time to be of any service. On the thirtieth day of the
month, he came in sight of Pondicherry, from whence the French squadron stood away early next
morning, nor was it in his power to come up with them, though he made all possible efforts
for that purpose. Then receiving intelligence that fort St. David's was surrendered to the
enemy, he returned again to Madras, in order to refresh his squadron. On the twenty-fifth day
of July, he sailed a third time in quest of M. d'Apché, and in two days perceived his squadron,
consisting of eight ships of the line and a frigate, at anchor in the road of Pondicherry.
They no sooner descried him advancing than they stood out to sea as before, and he continued
to chase, in hopes of bringing them to an engagement; but all his endeavours proved fruitless
till the third day of August, when, having obtained the weather-gage, he bore down upon them
in order of battle. The engagement began with great impetuosity on both sides; but in little
more than ten minutes, M. d'Apché set his foresail, and bore away, his whole squadron following
his example, and maintaining a running fight in a very irregular line. The British admiral
then hoisted the signal for a general chase, which the enemy perceiving, thought proper to
cut away their boats, and crowd with all the sail they could carry. They escaped, by favour
of the night, into the road of Pondicherry, and Mr. Pococke anchored with his squadron off
Cari-cal, a French settlement, having thus obtained an undisputed victory, with the loss of
thirty men killed, and one hundred and sixteen wounded, including commodore Stevens and captain
Martin, though their wounds were not dangerous. The number of killed and wounded on board the
French squadron amounted, according to report, to five hundred and forty; and their fleet was
so much damaged, that in the beginning of September their commodore sailed for the island of
Bourbon, in the same latitude with Madagascar, in order to refit; thus leaving the command
and sovereignty of the Indian seas to the English admiral, whose fleet, from the beginning
of this campaign, had been much inferior to the French squadron in number of ships and men,
as well as in weight of metal.

Mr. Lally having reduced Cuddalore and fort St. David's,* resolved to extort a sum of money
from the king of Tanjour, on pretence that, in the last war, he had granted an obligation to
the French governor for a certain sum, which had never been paid.

     * Cuddalore was in such a defenceless condition, that it
     could make no resistance; and there being no place in fort
     St. David's bomb-proof, nor any provisions or fresh water,
     the garrison surrendered in twelve days, on capitulation,
     after having sustained a severe bombardment.

Lally accordingly marched with a body of three thousand men into the dominions of Tanjour,
and demanded seventy-two lacs of rupees. This extravagant demand being rejected, he plundered
Negare, a trading town on the sea-coast, and afterwards invested the capital; but after he
had prosecuted the siege until a breach was made, his provisions and ammunition beginning to
fail, several vigorous sallies being made by the forces of the king of Tanjour, and the place
well defended by European gunners, sent from the English garrison at Trichinopoly, he found
himself obliged to raise the siege, and retreat with precipitation, leaving his cannon behind.
He arrived at Carical about the middle of August, and from thence retired to Pondicherry towards
the end of September. He afterwards cantoned his troops in the pre vince of Arcot, entered
the city without opposition, and began to make preparations for the siege of Madras, which
shall be recorded among the incidents of the succeeding year. In the meantime, the land-forces
belonging to the East India company were so much out-numbered by the reinforcements which arrived
with Mr. Lally, that they could not pretend to keep the field, out were obliged to remain on
the defensive, and provide as well as they could for the security of fort St. George, and the
other settlements in that part of India.

TRANSACTIONS on the CONTINENT of EUROPE.

Having particularized the events of the war which distinguished this year in America, Africa,
and Asia--those remote scenes in which the interest of Great Britain was immediately and intimately
concerned--it now remains to record the incidents of the military operations in Germany, supported
by British subsidies, and enforced by British troops, to favour the abominable designs of an
ally, from whose solitary friendship the British nation can never reap any solid benefit; and
to defend a foreign elector, in whose behalf she had already lavished an immensity of treasure.
Notwithstanding the bloodshed and lavages which had signalized the former campaign, the mutual
losses of the belligerent powers, the incredible expense of money, the difficulty of recruiting
armies thinned by sword and distemper, the scarcity of forage and provisions, the distresses
of Saxony in particular, and the calamities of war, which desolated the greatest part of the
empire--no proposition of peace was hinted by either of the parties concerned; but the powers
at variance seemed to be exasperated against each other with the most implacable resentment.
Jarring interests were harmonized, old prejudices rooted up, inveterate jealousies assuaged,
and even inconsistencies reconciled, in connecting the confederacy which was now formed and
established against the king of Prussia; and, on the other hand, the king of Great Britain
seemed determined to employ the whole power and influence of his crown in supporting this monarch.
Yet the members of the grand confederacy were differently actuated by disagreeing motives,
which, in the sequel, operated for the preservation of his Prussian majesty, by preventing
the full exertion of their united strength. The empress-queen, over and above her desire of
retrieving Silesia, which was her primary aim, gave way to the suggestions of personal hatred
and revenge, to the gratification of which she may be said to have sacrificed, in some measure,
the interests of her family, as well as the repose of the empire, by admitting the natural
enemies of her house into the Austrian Netherlands, and inviting them to invade the dominions
of her co-states with a formidable army. France, true to her old political maxims, wished to
see the house of Austria weakened by the divisions in the empire, which she accordingly fomented:
for this reason it could not be her interest to effect the ruin of the house of Brandenburgh;
and therefore she had, no doubt, set bounds to the prosecution of her schemes in concert with
the court of Vienna. But her designs against Hanover amounted to absolute conquest. In pursuance
of these, she sent an army of one hundred and twenty thousand men across the Rhine, instead
of four and twenty thousand, which she had engaged to furnish by the original treaty with the
empress-queen of Hungary, who is said to have shared in the spoils of the electorate. The czarina,
by co-operating with the houses of Bourbon and Austria, gratified her personal disgust towards
the Prussian monarch, augmented her finances by considerable subsidies from both, and perhaps
amused herself with the hope of obtaining an establishment in the German empire; but whether
she waivered in her own sentiments, or her ministry fluctuated between the promises of France
and the presents of Great Britain, certain it is, her forces had not acted with vigour in Pomerania;
and her general Apraxin, instead of prosecuting his advantage, had retreated immediately after
the Prussians miscarried in their attack. He was indeed disgraced, and tried for having thus
retired without orders; but in all probability, this trial was no other than a farce, acted
to amuse the other confederates while the empress of Russia gained time to deliberate upon
the offers that were made, and determine with regard to the advantages or disadvantages that
might accrue to her from persevering in the engagements which she had contracted. As for the
Swedes, although they had been instigated to hostilities against Prussia by the intrigues of
France, and flattered with hopes of retrieving Pomerania, they prosecuted the war in such a
dispirited and ineffectual manner, as plainly proved that either the ancient valour of that
people was extinct, or that the nation was not heartily engaged in the quarrel.

When the Russian general Apraxin retreated from Pomerania, mareschal Lehwald, who commanded
the Prussians in that country, was left at liberty to turn his arms against the Swedes, and
accordingly drove them before him almost without opposition. By the beginning of January they
had evacuated all Prussian Pomerania, and Lehwald invaded their dominions in his turn. He,
in a little time, made himself master of all Swedish Pomerania, except Stralsund and the isle
of Rugen, and possessed himself of several magazines which the enemy had erected. The Austrian
army, after their defeat at Breslau, had retired into Bohemia, where they were cantoned, the
head-quarters being fixed at Koningsgratz. The king of Prussia having cleared all his part
of Silesia, except the town of Schweidnitz, which he circumscribed with a blockade, sent detachments
from his army cantoned in the neighbourhood of Breslau, to penetrate into the Austrian or southern
part of Silesia, where they surprised Troppau and Jaggernsdorf, while he himself remained at
Breslau, entertaining his officers with concerts of music. Not that he suffered these amusements
to divert his attention from subjects of greater importance. He laid Swedish Pomerania under
contribution, and made a fresh demand of five hundred thousand crowns from the electorate of
Saxony. Having received intimation that the duke of Mecklenburgh was employed in providing
magazines for the French army, he detached a body of troops into that country, who not only
secured the magazines, but levied considerable contributions; and the duke retired to Lubeck,
attended by the French minister. The states of Saxony having proved a little dilatory in obeying
his Prussian majesty's injunction, received a second intimation, importing that they should
levy and deliver, within a certain time, eighteen thousand recruits for his army, pay into
the hands of his commissary one year's revenue of the electorate in advance; and Leipsic was
taxed with an extraordinary subsidy of eight hundred thousand crowns, on pain of military execution.
The states were immediately convoked at Leipsic in order to deliberate on these demands; and
the city being unable to pay such a considerable sum, the Prussian troops began to put their
monarch's threats in execution. He justified these proceedings, by declaring that the enemy
had practised the same violence and oppression on the territories of his allies; but how the
practice of his declared enemies, in the countries which they had invaded and subdued in common
course of war, should justify him in pillaging and oppressing a people with whom neither he
nor his allies were at war, it is not easy to conceive. As little can we reconcile this conduct
to the character of a prince, assuming the title of protector of the protestant religion, which
is the established faith among those very Saxons who were subjected to such grievous impositions;
impositions the more grievous and unmerited, as they had never taken any share in the present
war, but cautiously avoided every step that might be construed into provocation, since the
king of Prussia declared they might depend upon his protection.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

STATE of the ARMIES on the CONTINENT.

Before we proceed to enumerate the events of the campaign, it may be necessary to inform the
reader, that the forces brought into the field by the empress-queen of Hungary, and the states
of the empire, the czarina, the kings of France and Sweden, fell very little short of three
hundred thousand men; and all these were destined to act against the king of Prussia and the
elector of Hanover. In opposition to this formidable confederacy, his Prussian majesty was,
by tha subsidy from England, the spoils of Saxony, and the revenues of Brandenbourg, enabled
to maintain an army of one hundred and forty thousand men: while the elector of Hanover assembled
a body of sixty thousand men, composed of his own electoral troops, with the auxiliary mercenaries
of Hesse-Cassel, Buckebourg, Saxe-Gotha, and Brunswick Wolfenbuttel, all of them maintained
by the pay of Great Britain. At this juncture, indeed, there was no other fund for their subsistence,
as the countries of Hanover and Hesse were possessed by the enemy, and in the former the government
was entirely changed.

THE FRENCH KING CHANGES THE ADMINISTRATION OF HANOVER.

In the month of December in the preceding year, a fanner of the revenues from Paris arrived
at Hanover, where he established his office, in order to act by virtue of powers from one John
Faidy, to whom the French king granted the direction, receipt, and administration of all the
duties and revenues of the electorate. This director was, by a decree of the council of state,
empowered to receive the reveiraes, not only of Hanover, but also of all other countries that
should be subjected to his most christian majesty in the course of the campaign; to remove
the receivers who had been employed in any part of the direction, receipt, and administration
of the duties and revenues of Hanover, and appoint others in their room. The French king, by
the same decree, ordained, that all persons who had been intrusted under the preceding government,
with titles, papers, accounts, registers, or estimates, relating to the administration of the
revenues, should communicate them to John Faidy, or his attorneys; that the magistrates of
the towns, districts, and commonalties, as well as those who directed the administration of
particular states and provinces, should deliver to the said John Faidy, or his attorneys, the
produce of six years of the duties and revenues belonging to the said towns, districts, and
provinces, reckoning from the first of January in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-one,
together with an authentic account of the sums they had paid during that term to the preceding
sovereign, and of the charges necessarily incurred. It appears from the nature of this decree,
which was dated on the eighteenth day of October, that immediately after the conventions of
Closter-Seven and Bremenworden,* the court of Versailles had determined to change the government
and system of the electorate, contrary to an express article of the capitulation granted to
the city of Hanover, when it surrendered on the ninth day of August; and that the crown of
France intended to take advantage of the cessation of arms, in seizing places and provinces
which were not yet subdued; for, by the decree above-mentioned, the administration of John
Faidy extended to the countries which might hereafter be conquered.

     * Six days after the convention was signed at Closter-Seven,
     another act of accommodation was concluded at Bremenworden,
     between the generals Sporcken and Villemur, relating to the
     release of prisoners, and some other points omitted in the
     convention.

With what regard to justice, then, could the French government charge the elector of Hanover
with the infraction of articles? or what respect to good faith and humanity did the duke de
Richelieu observe, in the order issued from Zell, towards the end of the year, importing, that
as the treaty made with the country of Hanover had been rendered void by the violation of the
articles signed at Closter-Seven, all the effects belonging to the officers, or others, employed
in the Hanoverian army, should be confiscated for the use of his most christian majesty?

The landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, being desirous of averting a like storm from his dominions,
not only promised to renounce all connexion with the kings of Great Britain and Prussia, but
even solicited the court of France to receive him among the number of its dependents; for,
on the eighteenth day of October, the minister of the duke de Deuxponts, delivered at Versailles,
in the name of the landgrave, the plan of a treaty founded on the following conditions: The
landgrave, after having expressed an ardent desire of attaching himself wholly to France, proposed
these articles--That he should enter into no engagement against the king and his allies; and
give no assistance, directly or indirectly, to the enemies of his majesty and his allies: that
he should never give his vote, in the general or particular assemblies of the empire, against
his majesty's interest; but, on the contrary, employ his interest, jointly with France, to
quiet the troubles of the empire: that, for this end, his troops, which had served in the Hanoverian
army, should engage in the service of France, on condition that they should not act in the
present war against his Britannic majesty: that, immediately after the ratification of the
treaty, his most christian majesty should restore the dominions of the landgrave in the same
condition they were in when subdued by the French forces: that these dominions should be exempted
from all further contributions, either in money, corn, forage, wood, or cattle, though already
imposed on the subjects of Hesse; and the French troops pay for all the provisions with which
they might be supplied; in which case the landgrave should exact no toll for warlike stores,
provisions, or other articles of that nature, which might pass through his dominions: that
the king of France should guarantee all his estates, all the rights of the house of Hesse-Cassel,
particularly the act of assurance signed by his son, the hereditary prince, with regard to
religion; use his interest with the emperor and the empress-queen, that, in consideration of
the immense losses and damages his most serene highness had suffered since the French invaded
his country, and of the great sums he should lose with England in arrears and subsidies by
this accommodation, he might be excused from furnishing his contingent to the army of the empire,
as well as from paying the Roman months granted by the diet of the empire; and if, in resentment
of this convention, the states of his serene highness should be attacked, his most christian
majesty should afford the most speedy and effectual succours.--These proposals will speak for
themselves to the reader's apprehension; and if he is not blinded by the darkest mists of prejudice,
exhibit a clear and distinct idea of a genuine German ally. The landgrave of Hesse-Cassel had
been fed with the good things of England, even in time of peace, when his friendship could
not avail, nor his aversion prejudice, the interests of Great Britain; but he was retained
in that season of tranquillity as a friend, on whose services the most implicit dependence
might be placed in any future storm or commotion. How far he merited this confidence and favour
might have been determined by reflecting on his conduct during the former war: in the course
of which his troops were hired to the king of Great Britain and his enemies alternately, as
the scale of convenience happened to preponderate. Since the commencement of the present troubles,
he had acted as a mercenary to Great Britain, although he was a principal in the dispute, and
stood connected with her designs by solemn treaty, as well as by all the ties of gratitude
and honour; but now that the cause of Hanover seemed to be on the decline, and his own dominions
had suffered by the fate of the war, he not only appeared willing to abandon his benefactor
and ally, but even sued to be enlisted in the service of his adversary. This intended defection
was, however, prevented by a sudden turn of fortune, which he could not possibly foresee; and
his troops continued to act in conjunction with the Hanoverians.

TREATY BETWEEN THE FRENCH KING AND THE DUKE OF BRUNSWICK.

The landgrave of Hesse-Cassel was not singular in making such advances to the French monarch.
The duke of Brunswick, still more nearly connected with the king of Great Britain, used such
uncommon expedition in detaching himself from the tottering fortune of Hanover, that in ten
days after the convention of Closter-Seven, he had concluded a treaty with the courts of Vienna
and Versailles; so that the negotiation must have been begun before that convention took place.
On the twentieth day of September, his minister at Vienna, by virtue of full powers from the
duke of Brunswick, accepted and signed the conditions which the French king and his Austrian
ally thought proper to impose. These imported, that his most christian majesty should keep
possession of the cities of Brunswick and Wolfenbuttel during the war, and make use of the
artillery, arms, and military stores deposited in their arsenals: that the duke's forces, on
their return from the camp of the duke of Cumberland, should be disbanded and disarmed; and
take an oath that they should not, during the present war, serve against the king or his allies:
that the duke should be permitted to maintain a battalion of foot, and two squadrons of horse,
for the guard of his person and castles; but the regulations made by mareschal Richelieu and
the intendant of his army, should subsist on their present footing: that the duke should furnish
his contingent in money and troops, agreeably to the laws of the empire: that his forces should
immediately join those which the Germanic body had assembled; and that he should order his
minister at Ratisbon to vote conformably to the resolutions of the diet, approved and confirmed
by the emperor. In consideration of all these concessions, the duke was restored to the favour
of the French king, who graciously promised that neither his revenues nor his treasure should
be touched, nor the administration of justice invaded; and that nothing further should be demanded,
but winter-quarters for the regiments which should pass that season in the country of Brunswick.
How scrupulously soever the duke might have intended to observe the articles of this treaty,
his intentions were frustrated by the conduct of his brother prince Ferdinand, who, being invested
with the command of the Hanoverian army, and ordered to resume the operations of war against
the enemy, detained the troops of Brunswick, as well as his nephew the hereditary prince, notwithstanding
the treaty which his brother had signed, and the injunctions which he had laid upon his son
to quit the army, and make a tour to Holland, The duke wrote an expostulatory letter to prince
Ferdinand, pathetically complaining that he had seduced his troops, decoyed his son, and disgraced
his family; insisting upon the prince's pursuing his journey, as well as upon the return of
the troops; and threatening, in case of non-compliance, to use other means that should be more
effectual. [461] [See note 3 O, at the end of this Vol.] Notwithstanding this warm remonstrance,
prince Ferdinand adhered to his plan. He detained the troops and the hereditary prince, who,
being fond of the service, in a little time signalized himself by very extraordinary acts of
bravery and conduct; and means were found to reconcile his father to measures that expressly
contradicted his engagements with the courts of Vienna and Versailles.

DECREE OF THE AULIC COUNCIL.

The defeat of the French army at Rosbach, and the retreat of the Russians from Pomerania, had
entirely changed the face of affairs in the empire. The French king was soon obliged to abandon
his conquests on that sida of the Rhine, and his threats sounded no longer terrible in the
ears of the Hanoverian and Prussian allies. As little formidable were the denunciations of
the emperor, who had, by a decree of the Aulic council, communicated to the diet certain mandates,
issued in the month of August in the preceding year, on pain of the ban of the empire, with
avocatory letters annexed against the king of Great Britain, elector of Hanover, and the other
princes acting in concert with the king of Prussia. The French court likewise published a virulent
memorial, after the convention of Closter-Seven had been violated and set aside, drawing an
invidious parallel between the conduct of the French king and the proceedings of his Britannic
majesty; in which the latter is taxed with breach of faith, and almost every meanness that
could stain the character of a monarch. In answer to the emperor's decree and this virulent
charge, baron Gimmengen, the electoral minister of Brunswick-Lunenbourg, presented to the diet,
in November, a long memorial, recapitulating the important services his sovereign had done
the house of Austria, and the ungrateful returns he had reaped, in the queen's refusing to
assist him, when his dominions were threatened with an invasion. He enumerated many instances
in which she had assisted, encouraged, and even joined the enemies of the electorate, in contempt
of her former engagements, and directly contrary to the constitution of the empire. He refuted
every article of the charge which the French court had brought against him in their virulent
libel, retorted the imputations of perfidy and ambition, and, with respect to France, justified
every particular of his own conduct.

BREMEN TAKEN AND RETAKEN.

While the French and Hanoverian armies remained in their winter-quarters, the former at Zell,
and the latter at Lemenbourg, divers petty enterprises were executed by detachments with various
success. The Hanoverian general Juncheim, having taken post at Halberstadt and Quedlimbourg,
from whence he made excursions even to the gates of Brunswick, and kept the French army in
continual alarm, was visited by a large body of the enemy, who compelled him to retire to Achersleben,
committed great excesses in the town of Halberstadt and its neighbourhood, and carried off
hostages for the payment of contributions. General Hardenberg, another Hanoverian officer,
having dislodged the French detachments that occupied Burgh, Vogelsack, and Ritterhude, and
cleared the whole territory of Bremen, in the month of January the duke de Broglio assembled
a considerable corps of troops that were cantoned at Ottersburg, Rothenburg, and the adjacent
country, and advancing to Bremen, demanded admittance, threatening that, in case of a refusal,
he would have recourse to extremities, and punish the inhabitants severely, should they make
the least opposition. When their deputies waited upon him, to desire a short time for deliberation,
he answered, "Not a moment--the duke de Richelieu's orders are peremptory, and admit of no
delay." He accordingly ordered the cannon to advance; the wall was scaled, and the gates would
have been forced open, had not the magistrates, at the earnest importunity of the people, resolved
to comply with his demand. A second deputation was immediately despatched to the duke de Broglio,
signifying their compliance; and the gates being opened, he marched into the city at midnight,
after having promised upon his honour that no attempt should be made to the prejudice of its
rights and prerogatives, and no outrage offered to the privileges of the regency, to the liberty,
religion, and commerce of the inhabitants. This conquest, however, was of short duration. Prince
Ferdinand of Brunswick being joined by a body of Prussian horse, under the command of prince
George of Holstein-Gottorp, the whole army was put in motion, and advanced to the country of
Bremen about the middle of February. The enemy were dislodged from Rothenburg, Ottersburg,
and Verden, and they abandoned the city of Bremen at the approach of the Hanoverian general,
who took possession of it without opposition.

By this time the court of Versailles, being dissatisfied with the conduct of the duke de Richelieu,
had recalled that general from Germany, where his place was supplied by the count de Clermont,
to the general satisfaction of the army, as well as the joy of the Hanoverian subjects, among
whom Richelieu had committed many flagrant and inhuman acts of rapine and oppression. The new
commander found his master's forces reduced to a deplorable condition, by the accidents of
war, and distempers arising from hard duty, severe weather, and the want of necessaries. As
he could not pretend, with such a wretched remnant, to oppose the designs of prince Ferdinand
in the field, or even maintain the footing which his predecessor had gained, he found himself
under the necessity of retiring with all possible expedition towards the Rhine. As the allies
advanced, his troops retreated from their distant quarters with such precipitation, as to leave
behind all their sick, together with a great part of their baggage and artillery, besides a
great number of officers and soldiers, that fell into the hands of those parties by whom they
were pursued. The inhabitants of Hanover, perceiving the French intended to abandon that city,
were overwhelmed with the fear of being subjected to every species of violence and abuse; but
their apprehensions were happily disappointed by the honour and integrity of the duke de Randan,
the French governor, who not only took effectual measures for restraining the soldiers within
the bounds of the most rigid discipline and moderation, but likewise exhibited a noble proof
of generosity, almost without example. Instead of destroying his magazine of provisions, according
to the usual practice of war, he ordered the whole to be either sold at a low price, or distributed
among the poor of the city, who had been long exposed to the horrors of famine: an act of godlike
humanity, which ought to dignify the character of that worthy nobleman above all the titles
that military fame can deserve, or arbitrary monarchs bestow. The regency of Hanover were so
deeply impressed with a sense of his heroic behaviour on this occasion, that they gratefully
acknowledged it, in a letter of thanks to him and the count de Clermont; and on the day of
solemn thanksgiving to heaven for their being delivered from their enemies, the clergy, in
their sermons, did not fail to celebrate and extol the charity and benevolence of the duke
de Randan. Such glorious testimonies, even from enemies, must have afforded the most exquisite
pleasure to a mind endued with sensibility; and this, no doubt, may be termed one of the fairest
triumphs of humanity.

THE FRENCH ABANDON HANOVER.

The two grand divisions of the French army, quartered at Zell and Hanover, retired in good
order to Hamelen, where they collected all their troops, except those that were left in Hoya,
and about four thousand men placed in garrison at Minden, to retard the operations of the combined
army. Towards the latter end of February, prince Ferdinand of Brunswick, having received intelligence
that the count de Chabot was posted with a considerable body of troops at Hoya, upon the Weser,
detached the hereditary prince of Brunswick, with four battalions, and some light troops and
dragoons, to dislodge them from that neighbourhood. This enterprise was executed with the utmost
intrepidity. The hereditary prince passed the Weser at Bremen with part of his detachment,
while the rest advanced on this side of the river: and the enemy, being attacked in front and
rear, were in a little time forced, and thrown into confusion. The bridge being abandoned,
and near seven hundred men taken prisoners, the count de Chabot threw himself, with two battalions,
into the castle, where he resolved to support himself, in hope of being relieved. The regiment
of Bretagne, and some detachments of dragoons, were actually on the march to his assistance.
The hereditary prince being made acquainted with this circumstance, being also destitute of
heavy artillery to besiege the place in form, and taking it for granted he should not be able
to maintain the post after it might be taken, he listened to the terms of capitulation proposed
by the French general, whose garrison was suffered to march out with the honours of war; but
their cannon, stores, and ammunition were surrendered to the victor. This was the first exploit
of the hereditary prince, whose valour and activity on many subsequent occasions shone with
distinguished lustre. He had no sooner reduced Hoya, than he marched to the attack of Minden,
which he invested on the fifth day of March, and on the fourteenth the garrison surrendered
at discretion. After the reduction of this city, the combined army advanced towards Hamelen,
where the French general had established his head-quarters; but he abandoned them at the approach
of the allies, and leaving behind all his sick and wounded, with part of his magazines, retired
without halting to Paderborn, and from thence to the Rhine, recalling in his march the troops
that were in Embden, Cassel, and the land-graviate of Hesse, all which places were now evacuated.
They were terribly harassed in their retreat by the Prussian hussars, and a body of light horse,
distinguished by the name of Hanoverian hunters, who took a great number of prisoners, together
with many baggage-waggons, and some artillery. Such was the precipitation of the enemy's retreat,
that they could not find time to destroy all their magazines of provision and forage; and even
forgot to call in the garrison of Vecht, a small fortress in the neighbourhood of Diepholt,
who were made prisoners of war, and here was found a complete train of battering cannon and
mortars. The count de Clermont, having reached the banks of the Rhine, distributed his forces
into quarters of cantonment in Wesel and the adjoining country, while prince Ferdinand cantoned
the allied army in the bishopric of Munster; here, however, he did not long remain inactive.
In the latter end of May he ordered a detachment to pass the Rhine at Duysbourg, under the
command of colonel Scheither, who executed his order without loss, defeated three battalions
of the enemy, and took five pieces of cannon. In the beginning of June the whole army passed
the Rhine on a bridge constructed for the occasion, defeated a body of French cavalry, and
obtained divers other advantages in their march towards Wesel. Keiserwaert was surprised, the
greater part of the garrison either killed or taken; and prince Ferdinand began to make preparations
for the siege of Dusseldorp. In the meantime, the count de Clermont, being unable to stop the
rapidity of his progress, was obliged to secure his troops with strong intrenchments, until
he should be properly reinforced.

PRINCE FERDINAND DEFEATS THE FRENCH, &c.

The court of Versailles, though equally mortified and confounded at the turn of their affairs
in Germany, did not sit tamely and behold this reverse; but exerted their usual spirit and
expedition in retrieving the losses they had sustained. They assembled a body of troops at
Hanau, under the direction of the prince de Soubise, who, it was said, had received orders
to penetrate, by the way of Donawert, Ingoldstadt, and Arnberg, into Bohemia. In the meantime,
reinforcements daily arrived in the camp of the count de Clermont; and, as repeated complaints
had been made of the want of discipline and subordination in that army, measures were taken
for reforming the troops by severity and example. The mareschal duke de Belleisle, who now
acted as secretary at war with uncommon ability, wrote a letter, directed to all the colonels
of infantry, threatening them, in the king's name, with the loss of their regiments, should
they connive any longer at the scandalous practice of buying commissions; an abuse which had
crept into the service under various pretexts, to the discouragement of merit, the relaxation
of discipline, and the total extinction of laudable emulation. The prince of Clermont having
quitted his strong camp at Rhinefeldt, retired to Nuys, a little higher up the river, and detached
a considerable corps, under the command of the count de St. Germain, to take post at Creveldt,
situated in a plain between his army and the camp of the allies, which fronted the town of
Meurs. After several motions on both sides, prince Ferdinand resolved to attack the enemy,
and forthwith made a disposition for this purpose. He assigned the command of the whole left
wing, consisting of eighteen battalions and twenty-eight squadrons, to lieutenant-general Sporcken;
the conduct of the right wing, composed of sixteen battalions and fourteen squadrons, was intrusted
to the hereditary prince and major-general Wangenheim; the squadrons, with the addition of
two regiments of Prussian dragoons, were under the immediate direction of the prince of Holstein,
while the hereditary prince commanded the infantry. The light troops, consisting of five squadrons
of hussars, were divided between the prince of Holstein and lieutenant-general Sporcken. Major
Luckner's squadron, together with Scheither's corps, were ordered to observe the flank of the
enemy's right, and with this view were posted in the village of Papendeick; and a battalion
of the troops of Wolfenbuttel were left in the town of Hulste, to cover the rear of the army.
Prince Ferdinand's design was to attack the enemy on their left flank; but the execution was
rendered extremely difficult by the woods and ditches that embarrassed the route, and the numerous
ditches that intersected this part of the country. On the twenty-third day of June, at four
in the morning, the army began to move; the right advancing in two columns as far as St. Anthony,
and the left marching up within half a league of Crevelt. The prince having viewed the position
of the enemy from the steeple of St. Anthony, procured guides, and having received all the
necessary hints of information, proceeded to the right, in order to charge the enemy's left
flank by the villages of Worst and Anrath; but, in order to divide their attention, and keep
them in suspense with respect to the nature of his principal attack, he directed the generals
Sporcken and Oberg to advance against them by the way of Crevelt and St. Anthony, and, in particular,
to make the most of their artillery, that, being employed in three different places at once,
they might be prevented from sending any reinforcement to the left, where the chief attack
was intended. These precautions being taken, prince Ferdinand, putting himself at the head
of the grenadiers of the right wing, continued his march in two columns to the village of Anrath,
where he fell in with an advanced party of the French, which, after a few discharges of musketry,
retired to their camp and gave the alarm. In the meantime, both armies were drawn up in order
of battle; the troops of the allies in the plain between the villages of Anrath and Willich,
opposite to the French forces, whose left was covered with a wood. The action began about one
in the afternoon, with a severe cannonading on the part of prince Ferdinand, which, though
well supported, proved ineffectual in drawing the enemy from their cover; he therefore determined
to dislodge them from the wood by dint of small arms. The hereditary prince immediately advanced
with the whole front, and a very obstinate action ensued. Meanwhile, the cavalry on the right
in vain attempted to penetrate the wood on the other side, where the enemy had raised two batteries,
which were sustained by forty squadrons of horse. After a terrible fire had been maintained
on both sides till five in the afternoon, the grenadiers forced the intrenchments in the wood,
which were lined by the French infantry. These giving way, abandoned the wood in the utmost
disorder; but the pursuit was checked by the conduct and resolution of the enemy's cavalry,
which, notwithstanding a dreadful fire from the artillery of the allies, maintained their ground,
and covered the foot in their retreat to Nuys. The success of the day was in a good measure
owing to the artillery on the left and in the centre, with which the generals Sporcken and
Oberg had done great execution, and employed the attention of the enemy on that side, while
prince Ferdinand prosecuted his attack on the other quarter. It must be owned, however, that
their right wing and centre retired in great order to Nuys, though the left was defeated, with
the loss of some standards, colours, and pieces of cannon, and six thousand men killed, wounded,
or taken prisoners.*

     * Among the French officers who lost their lives in this
     engagement, was the count de Gisors, only son of the
     mareschal duke de Belleisle, and last hope of that
     illustrious family, a young nobleman of extraordinary
     accomplishments, who finished a short life of honour in the
     embrace of military glory, and fell gallantly fighting at
     the head of his own regiment, to the inexpressible grief of
     his aged father, and the universal regret of his country.

This victory, however, which cost the allies about fifteen hundred men, was not at all decisive
in its consequences; and, indeed, the plan seemed only calculated to display the enterprising
genius of the Hanoverian general. True it is, the French army took refuge under the cannon
of Cologn, where they remained without hazarding any step for the relief of Dusseldorp, which
prince Ferdinand immediately invested, and in a few days reduced, the garrison being allowed
to march out with the honours of war, on condition that they should not, for the space of one
year, carry arms against the allies.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

PRINCE OF YSEMBOURG DEFEATED.

It was at this period that count de Clermont resigned his command, which was conferred upon
M. de Contades, and the French army was considerably reinforced. He even threatened to attack
prince Ferdinand in his turn, and made some motions with that design, but was prevented by
the little river Erff, behind which the prince resolved to lie quiet, until he should be joined
by the body of the British troops under the command of the duke of Marlborough, the first division
of which had just landed at Embden. He flattered himself that the prince of Ysembourg, at the
head of the Hessian troops, would find employment for the prince de Soubise, who had marched
from Hanau, with a design to penetrate into the landgraviate of Hesse-Cassel: his vanguard
had been already surprised and defeated by the militia of the country; and the prince Ysembourg
was at the head of a considerable body of regular forces, assembled to oppose his further progress.
Prince Ferdinand therefore hoped that the operations of the French general would be effectually
impeded, until he himself, being joined by the British troops, should be in a condition to
pass the Maese, transfer the seat of war into the enemy's country, thus make a diversion from
the Rhine, and perhaps oblige the prince de Soubise to come to the assistance of the principal
French army commanded by M. de Contades. He had formed a plan which would have answered these
purposes effectually, and, in execution of it, marched to Ruremond on the Maese, when his measures
were totally disconcerted by a variety of incidents which he could not foresee. The prince
of Ysembourg was, on the twenty-third day of July, defeated at San-garshausen by the duke de
Broglio, whom the prince de Soubise had detached against him with a number of troops greatly
superior to that which the Hessian general commanded. The duke de Broglio, who commanded the
corps that formed the vanguard of Soubise's army, having learned at Cassel that the Hessian
troops, under the prince of Ysembourg, were retiring towards Munden, he advanced, on the twenty-third
of July, with a body of eight thousand men, to the village of Sangarshausen, where he found
them drawn up in order of battle, and forthwith made a disposition for the attack. At first
his cavalry were repulsed by the Hessian horse, which charged the French infantry, and were
broke in their turn. The Hessians, though greatly inferior in number to the enemy, made a very
obstinate resistance, by favour of a rock in the Fulde that covered their right, and a wood
by which their left was secured. The dispute was so obstinate, that the enemy's left was obliged
to give ground; but the duke de Broglio, ordering a fresh corps to advance, changed the fortune
of the day. The Hessians, overpowered by numbers, gave way; part plunged into the river, where
many perished, and part threw themselves into the wood, through which they escaped from the
pursuit of the hussars, who took above two hundred soldiers and fifty officers, including the
count de Canitz, who was second in command. They likewise found on the field of battle seven
pieces of cannon, and eight at Munden; but the carnage was pretty considerable, and nearly
equal on both sides. The number of the killed and wounded, on the side of the French, exceeded
two thousand; the loss of the Hessians was not so great. The prince of Ysembourg, having collected
the remains of his little army, took post at Eimbeck, where he soon was reinforced, and found
himself at the head of twelve thousand men; but, in consequence of this advantage, the enemy
became masters of the Weser, and opened to themselves a free passage into Westphalia.

GENERAL IMHOFF DEFEATS M. DE CHEVERT.

The progress of prince Ferdinand upon the Maese, had been retarded by a long succession of
heavy rains, which broke up the roads, and rendered the country impassable; and now the certain
information of this unlucky check left him no alternative but a battle or a retreat across
the Rhine: the first was carefully avoided by the enemy; the latter resolution, therefore,
he found himself under a necessity to embrace. In his present position he was hampered by the
French army on one wing, on the other by the fortress of Gueldres, the garrison of which had
been lately reinforced, as well as by divers other posts, capable of obstructing the convoys
and subsistence of the combined army; besides, he had reason to apprehend, that the prince
de Soubise would endeavour to intercept the British troops in their march from Embden. Induced
by these considerations, he determined to repass the Rhine, after having offered battle to
the enemy, and made several motions for that purpose. Finding them averse to an engagement,
he made his dispositions for forcing the strong pass of Waehtendonck, an island surrounded
by Niers, of very difficult approach, and situated exactly in his route to the Rhine. This
service was performed by the hereditary prince of Brunswick, who, perceiving the enemy had
drawn up the bridge, rushed into the river at the head of his grenadiers, who drove them away
with their bayonets, and cleared the bridges for the passage of the army towards Rhinebergen.
At this place prince Ferdinand received intelligence that M. de Chevert, reputed one of the
best officers in the French service, had passed the Lippe with fourteen battalions and several
squadrons, to join the garrison of Wesel, and fall upon lieutenant-general Imhoff, who commanded
a detached corps of the combined army at Meer, that he might be at hand to guard the bridge
which the prince had thrown over the Rhine at Rees. His serene highness was extremely desirous
of sending succours to general Imhoff; but the troops were too much fatigued to begin another
march before morning; and the Rhine had overflowed its banks in such a manner as to render
the bridge at Rees impassable, so that M. Imhoff was left to the resources of his own conduct
and the bravery of his troops, consisting of six battalions and four squadrons, already weakened
by the absence of different detachments. This general having received advice, on the fourth
of August, that the enemy intended to pass the Lippe the same evening with a considerable train
of artillery, in order to burn the bridge at Rees, decamped with a view to cover this place,
and join two battalions which; had passed the Rhine in boats, under the command of general
Zastrow, who reinforced him accordingly; but the enemy not appearing, he concluded the information
was false, and resolved to resume his advantageous post at Meer. Of this he had no sooner repossessed
himself, than his advanced guards were engaged with the enemy, who marched to the attack from
Wesel, under the command of lieutenant-general de Chevert, consisting of the whole corps intended
for the siege of Dusseldorp. Imhoffs front was covered by coppices and ditches, there being
a rising ground on his right, from whence he could plainly discern the whole force that advanced
against him, together with the manner of their approach. Perceiving them engaged in that difficult
ground, he posted one regiment in a coppice, with orders to fall upon the left flank of the
enemy, which appeared quite uncovered; and as soon as their fire began, advanced with the rest
of his forces to attack them in front. The bayonet was used on this occasion, and the charge
given with such impetuosity and resolution, that after a short resistance, the enemy fell into
confusion, and fled towards Wesel, leaving on the spot eleven pieces of cannon, with a great
number of waggons and other carriages; besides the killed and wounded, who amounted to a pretty
considerable number, the victor took three hundred and fifty-four prisoners, including eleven
officers; whereas, on his part the victory was purchased at a very small expense.

GENERAL OBERG DEFEATED by the FRENCH.

Immediately after this action, general Wangenheim passed the Rhine with several squadrons and
battalions, to reinforce general Imhoff, and enable him to prosecute the advantage he had gained,
while prince Ferdinand marched with the rest of the army to Santen: from whence he proceeded
to Rhinebergen, where he intended to pass; but the river had overflowed to such a degree, that
here, as well as at Rees, the shore was inaccessible; so that he found it necessary to march
farther down the river, and lay a bridge at Griethuyzen. The enemy had contrived four vessels
for the destruction of this bridge; but they were all taken before they could put the design
in execution, and the whole army passed on the tenth day of August, without any loss or further
interruption. At the same time the prince withdrew his garrison from Dusseldorp, of which the
French immediately took possession. Immediately after his passage he received a letter from
the duke of Marlborough, acquainting him that the British troops had arrived at Lingen, in
their route to Coesfeldt: to which place general Imhoff was sent to receive them, with a strong
detachment. Notwithstanding this junction, the two armies on the Rhine were so equally matched,
that no stroke of importance was struck on either side during the remaining part of the campaign.
M. de Contades, seeing no prospect of obtaining the least advantage over prince Ferdinand,
detached prince Xaverius of Saxony with a strong reinforcement to the prince de Soubise, who
had taken possession of Gottengen, and seemed determined to attack the prince of Ysembourg
at Eimbeck. That this officer might be able to give him a proper reception, prince Ferdinand
detached general Oberg with ten thousand men to Lipstadt, from whence, should occasion require,
they might continue their march, and join the Hessians. The whole body, when thus reinforced,
did not exceed twenty thousand men, of whom general Oberg now assumed the command: whereas
the troops of Soubise were increased to the number of thirty thousand. The allies had taken
post upon the river Fulde at Sangarshausen, where they hoped the French would attack them;
but the design of Soubise was first to dislodge them from that advantageous situation. With
this view, he made a motion, as if he had intended to turn the camp of the allies by the road
of Munden. In order to prevent the execution of this supposed design, general Oberg decamped
on the tenth of October, and, passing by the village of Landwernhagen, advanced towards Lutten-berg,
where, understanding the enemy were at his heels, he forthwith formed his troops in order of
battle, his right to the Fulde, and his left extending to a thicket upon an eminence, where
he planted five field-pieces. The cavalry supported the wings in a third line, the village
of Luttenberg was in the rear, and four pieces of cannon were mounted on a rising ground that
flanked this village. The French having likewise passed Landwernhagen, posted their left towards
the Fulde, their right extending far beyond the left of the allies, and their front being strengthened
with above thirty pieces of cannon. At four in the afternoon the enemy began the battle with
a severe cannonading, and at the same time the first line of their infantry attacked major-general
Zastrow, who was posted on the left wing of the allies. This body of the French was repulsed;
but in the same moment, a considerable line of cavalry advancing, charged the allies in front
and flank. These were supported by a fresh body of infantry with cannon, which, after a warm
dispute, obliged the confederates to give way; and general Oberg, in order to prevent a total
defeat, made a disposition for a retreat, which was performed in tolerable order; not but that
he suffered greatly, in passing through a defile, from the fire of the enemy's cannon, which
was brought up and managed under the direction of the duke de Broglio. Having marched through
Munden by midnight, the retiring army lay till morning under arms in the little plain near
Grupen, on the other side of the Weser; but at day-break prosecuted their march, after having
withdrawn the garrison from Munden, until they arrived in the neighbourhood of Guntersheim,
where they encamped. In this engagement general Oberg lost about fifteen hundred men, his artillery,
baggage, and ammunition. He was obliged to abandon a magazine of hay and straw at Munden, and
leave part of his wounded men in that place to the humanity of the victor. But, after all,
the French general reaped very little advantage from his victory.

DEATH OF THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH.

By this time prince Ferdinand had retired into Westphalia, and fixed his head-quarters at Munster,
while M. de Contades encamped near Ham upon the Lippe; so that, although he had obliged the
French army to evacuate Hanover and Hesse in the beginning of the year, when they were weakened
by death and distemper, and even driven them beyond the Rhine, where they sustained a defeat;
yet they were soon put in a condition to baffle all his future endeavours, and penetrate again
into Westphalia, where they established their winter-quarters, extending themselves in such
a manner as to command the whole course of the Rhine on both sides, while the allies were disposed
in the landgraviate of Hesse-Cassel, and in the bishoprics of Munster, Paderborn, and Hildesheim.
The British troops had joined them so late in the season that they had no opportunity to signalize
themselves in the field; yet the fatigues of the campaign, which they had severely felt, proved
fatal to their commander, the duke of Marlborough, who died of a dysentery at Munster, universally
lamented.

OPERATIONS OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

Having thus particularized the operations of the allied army since the commencement of the
campaign, we shall now endeavour to trace the steps of the king of Prussia, from the period
to which his army was assembled for action. Having collected his force as soon as the season
would permit, he undertook the siege of Schweidnitz in form on the twenty-first day of March;
and carried on his operations with such vigour, that in thirteen days the garrison surrendered
themselves prisoners of war, after having lost one half of their number in the defence of the
place. While one part of Lis troops were engaged in this service, he himself, at the head of
another, advanced to the eastern frontier of Bohemia, and sent a detachment as far as Trautenaw,
garrisoned by a body of Austrians, who, after an obstinate resistance, abandoned the place,
and retreated towards their grand army. By this success he opened to himself a way into Bohemia,
by which he poured in detachments of light troops, to raise contributions and harass the out-posts
of the enemy. At the same time the baron de la Mothe Fouquet marched with another body against
the Austrian general Jahnus, posted in the county of Glatz, whom he obliged to abandon all
the posts he occupied in that country, and pursued as far as Nashod, within twenty miles of
Koningsgratz, where the grand Austrian army was encamped, under the command of mareschal Daun,
who had lately arrived from Vienna. Over and above these excursions, the king ordered a body
of thirty thousand men to be assembled, to act under the command of his brother prince Henry,*
an accomplished warrior, against the army of the empire, which the prince de Deux-ponts, with
great difficulty, made a shift to form again near Bamberg, in Franconia.

     * At this juncture the Prussian commandant of Dresden being
     admitted into the Japan palace, to see the curious
     porcelaine with which it is adorned, perceived a door built
     up; and ordering the passage to be opened, entered a large
     apartment, where he found three thousand tents, and other
     field utensils. These had been concealed here when the
     Prussians first took possession of the city; they were
     immediately seized by the commandant, and distributed among
     the troops of prince Henry's army.

The king of Prussia, whose designs were perhaps even greater than he cared to own, resolved
to shift the theatre of the war, and penetrate into Moravia, a fertile country, which had hitherto
been kept sacred from ravage and contribution. Having formed an army of fifty thousand choice
troops, near Neiss, in Silesia, he divided them into three columns; the first commanded by
mareschal Keith, the second by himself in person, and the third conducted by prince Maurice
of Anhault-Dessau. In the latter end of April they began their march towards Moravia; and general
De la Ville, who commanded a body of troops in that country, retired as they advanced, after
having thrown a strong reinforcement into Olmutz, which the king was determined to besiege.
Had he passed by this fortress, which was strongly fortified and well provided for a vigorous
defence, he might have advanced to the gates of Vienna, and reduced the emperor to the necessity
of suing for peace on his own terms; but it seems he was unwilling to deviate so far from the
common maxims of war as to leave a fortified place in the rear; and, therefore, he determined
to make himself master of it before he should proceed. For this purpose it was immediately
invested: orders were issued to hasten up the heavy artillery, and mareschal Keith was appointed
to superintend and direct the operations of the siege. Meanwhile the Austrian commander, count
Daun, being informed of his Prussian majesty's motions and designs, quitted his camp at Leutomyssel
in Bohemia, and entered Moravia by the way of Billa. Being still too weak to encounter the
Prussians in the field, he extended his troops in the neighbourhood of the king's army, between
Gewitz and Littau, in a mountainous situation, where he ran little or no risk of being attacked.
Here he remained for some time in quiet, with the fertile country of Bohemia in his rear, from
whence he drew plentiful supplies, and received daily reinforcements. His scheme was to relieve
the besieged occasionally, to harass the besiegers, and to intercept their convoys from Silesia;
and this scheme succeeded to his wish. Olmutz is so extensive in its works, and so peculiarly
situated on the river Morava, that it could not be completely invested without weakening the
posts of the besieging army, by extending them to a prodigious circuit; so that, in some parts,
they were easily forced by detachments in the night, who fell upon them suddenly, and seldom
failed to introduce into the place supplies of men, provisions, and ammunition. The forage
in the neighbourhood of the city having been previously destroyed, the Prussian horse were
obliged to make excursions at a great distance, consequently exposed to fatigue, and liable
to surprise; and, in a word, the Prussians were not very expert in the art of town-taking.

Count Daun knew how to take advantage of these circumstances without hazarding a battle, to
which the king provoked him in vain. While the garrison made repeated sallies to retard the
operations of the besiegers, the' Austrian general harassed their foraging parties, fell upon
different quarters of their army in the night, and kept them in continual alarm. Nevertheless,
the king finished his first parallel; and proceeded with such vigour as seemed to promise a
speedy reduction of the place, when his design was entirely frustrated by an untoward incident.
Mareschal Daun, having received intelligence that a large convoy had set out from Silesia for
the Prussian camp, resolved to seize this opportunity of compelling the king to desist from
his enterprise. He sent general Jahnus, with a strong body of troops, towards Bahrn, and another
detachment to Stadtoliebe, with instructions to attack the convoy on different sides; while
he himself advanced towards the besiegers, as if he intended to give them battle. The king
of Prussia, far from being deceived by this feint, began, from the motions of the Austrian
general, to suspect his real scheme, and immediately despatched general Ziethen, with a strong
reinforcement, to protect the convoy, which was escorted by eight battalions, and about four
thousand men, who had been sick, and were just recovered. Before this officer joined them,
the convoy had been attacked on the twenty-eighth day of June; but the assailants were repulsed
with considerable loss. Mareschal Daun, however, took care that they should be immediately
reinforced; and next day the attack was renewed with much greater effect. Four hundred waggons,
guarded by four battalions, and about one thousand troopers, had just passed the defiles of
Domstadt, when the Austrians charged them furiously on every side; the communication between
the head and the rest of the convoy was cut off; and general Ziethen, after having exerted
all his efforts for its preservation, being obliged to abandon the waggons, retired to Troppau.
Thus the whole convoy fell into the hands of the enemy, who took above six hundred prisoners,
together with general Putkammer; and the king of Prussia was obliged to relinquish his enterprise.
This was a mortifying necessity to a prince of his high spirit, at a time when he saw himself
on the eve of reducing the place, notwithstanding the gallant defence which had been made by
general Marshal the governor. Nothing now remained but to raise the siege, and retire without
loss in the face of a vigilant enemy, prepared to seize every opportunity of advantage: a task
which, how hard soever it may appear, he performed with equal dexterity and success. Instead
of retiring into Silesia, he resolved to avert the war from his own dominions, and take the
route to Bohemia, the frontiers of which were left uncovered by mareschal Daun's last motion,
when he advanced his quarters to Posnitz, in order to succour Olmutz the more effectually.
After the king had taken his measures, he carefully concealed his design from the enemy, and,
notwithstanding the loss of his convoy, prosecuted the operations of the siege with redoubled
vigour till the first day of July, when he decamped in the night, and began his march to Bohemia.
He himself, with one division, took the road to Konitz; and mareschal Keith having brought
away all the artillery, except four mortars and one disabled cannon, pursued his march by the
way of Littau to Muglitz and Tribau. Although his Prussian majesty had gained an entire march
upon the Austrians, their light troops, commanded by the generals Buccow and Laudohn, did not
fail to attend and harass his army in their retreat; but their endeavours were in a great measure
frustrated by the conduct and circumspection of the Prussian commanders. After the rear of
the army had passed the defiles of Krenau, general Lasci, who was posted at Gibau with a large
body of Austrian troops, occupied the village of Krenau with a detachment of grenadiers, who
were soon dislodged; and the Prussians pursued their march by Zwittau to Leutomyssel, where
they seized a magazine of meal and forage. In the meantime general de Ratzow, who conducted
the provisions and artillery, found the hills of Hollitz possessed by the enemy, who cannonaded
him as he advanced; but mareschal Keith coming up, ordered them to be attacked in the rear,
and they fled into a wood with precipitation, with the loss of six officers and three hundred
men, who were taken prisoners. While' the mareschal was thus employed, the king proceeded from
Leutomyssel to Koningsgratz, where general Buccow, who had got the start of him, was posted
with seven thousand men behind the Elbe, and in the intrenchments which they had thrown up
all around the city. The Prussian troops as they arrived passed over the little river Adler,
and as the enemy had broken down the bridges over the Elbe, the king ordered them to be repaired
with all expedition, being determined to attack the Austrian intrenchments; but general Buccow
did not wait for his approach: he abandoned his intrenchments, and retired with his troops
to Clumetz; so that the king took possession of the most important post of Koningsgratz without
further opposition. An Austrian corps having taken post between him and Hollitz, in order to
obstruct the march of the artillery, he advanced against them in person, and having driven
them from the place, all his cannon, military stores, provisions, with fifteen hundred sick
and wounded men, arrived in safety at Koningsgratz, where the whole army encamped. His intention
was to transfer the seat of war from Moravia to Bohemia, where he should be able to maintain
a more easy communication with his own dominions; but a more powerful motive soon obliged him
to change his resolution.

PROGRESS OF THE RUSSIANS.

After the Russian troops under Apraxin had retreated from Pomerania in the course of the preceding
year, and the czarina seemed ready to change her system, the courts of Vienna and Versailles
had, by dint of subsidies, promises, presents, and intrigues, attached her, in all appearance,
more firmly than ever to the confederacy, and even induced her to augment the number of troops
destined to act against the Prussian monarch. She not only signed her accession in form to
the quadruple alliance with the empress-queen and the kings of France and Sweden; but, in order
to manifest her zeal to the common cause, she disgraced her chancellor, count Bestuchef, who
was supposed averse to the war: she divided her forces into separate bodies, under the command
of the generals Fermer and Browne, and ordered them to put their troops in motion in the middle
of winter. Fermer accordingly began his march in the beginning of January, and on the twenty-second
his light troops took possession of Koningsberg, the capital of Prussia, without opposition:
for the king's forces had quitted that country in order to prosecute the war in the western
parts of Pomerania. They did not, however, maintain themselves in this part of the country;
but, after having ravaged some districts, returned to the main body, which halted on the Vistula,
to the no small disturbance of the city of Dantzic. The resident of the czarina actually demanded
that the magistrates should receive a Russian garrison; a demand which they not only peremptorily
refused, but ordered all the citizens to arms, and took every other method to provide for their
defence. At length, after some negotiation with general Fermer, the affair was compromised:
he desisted from the demand, and part of his troops passed the Vistula, seemingly to invade
Pomerania, in the eastern part of which count Dohna had assembled an army of Prussians to oppose
their progress. But after they had pillaged the open country, they rejoined their main body;
and general Fermer, turning to the left, advanced to Silesia in order to co-operate with the
other Russian army commanded by Browne, who had taken his route through Poland, and already
passed the Posna. By the first of July both bodies had reached the frontiers of Silesia, and
some of their cossacks, penetrating into that province, had committed dreadful ravages, and
overwhelmed the inhabitants with consternation. Count Bohna, with the Prussian army under his
command, had attended their motions, and even passed the Oder at Frankfort, as if he had intended
to give them battle; but he was too much inferior in number to hazard such a step, which became
an object of his sovereign's own personal attention. Mareschal Daun had followed the king into
Bohemia, and, on the twenty-second day of July, encamped on the hills of Libischau, a situation
almost inaccessible, where he resolved to remain and watch the motions of the Prussian monarch,
until some opportunity should offer of acting to advantage. Nature seems to have expressly
formed this commander with talents to penetrate the designs, embarrass the genius, and check
the impetuosity, of the Prussian monarch. He was justly compared to Fabius Maximus, distinguished
by the epithet of Cunctator. He possessed all ihe vigilance, caution, and sagacity of that
celebrated Roman. Like him, he hovered on the skirts of the enemy, harassing their parties,
accustoming the soldiers to strict discipline, hard service, and the face of a formidable foe,
and watching for opportunities, which he knew how to seize with equal courage and celerity.

THE PRUSSIANS DEFEAT THE RUSSIANS.

The king of Prussia, being induced by a concurrence of motives to stop the progress of the
Russians in Silesia, made his dispositions for retreating from Bohemia, and on the twenty-fifth
day of July quitted the camp at Koningsgratz. He was attended in his march by three thousand
Austrian light troops, who did not fail to incommode his rear; but, notwithstanding these impediments,
he passed the Mittau, proceeded on his route, and on the ninth day of August arrived at Landshut.
From thence he hastened with a detachment towards Frankfort on the Oder, and joined the army
commanded by lieutenant-general Dohna at Gorgas. Then the whole army passed the Oder by a bridge
thrown over at Gatavise, and having rested one day, advanced to Dert-mitzel, where he encamped.
The Russians, under general Fermer, were posted on the other side of the little river Mitzel,
their right extending to the village of Zicker, and their left to Quertchem. The king being
determined to hazard a battle, passed the Mitzel on the twenty-fifth in the morning, and turning
the flank of the enemy, drew up his army in order of battle in the plain between the little
river and the town of Zorndorf. The Russians, by whom he was outnumbered, did not decline the
dispute; but as the ground did not permit them to extend themselves, they appeared in four
lines, forming a front on every side, defended by cannon and a chevaux-de-frise, their right
flank covered by the village of Zwicker. After a warm cannonade, the Prussian infantry were
ordered to attack the village, and a body of grenadiers advanced to the assault; but this brigade
unexpectedly giving way, occasioned a considerable opening in the line, and left the whole
left flank of the infantry uncovered. Before the enemy could take advantage of this incident,
the interval was filled up by the cavalry under the command of general Seydlitz; and the king,
with his usual presence of mind, substituted another choice body of troops to carry on the
attack. This began about noon, and continued for some time, during which both sides fought
with equal courage and perseverance: at length general Seydlitz, having routed the Russian
cavalry, fell upon the flank of the infantry with great fury, which being also dreadfully annoyed
by the Prussian artillery, they abandoned the village, together with their military chest,
and great part of their baggage. Notwithstanding this loss, which had greatly disordered their
right wing, they continued to stand their ground, and terrible havoc was made among them, not
only with the sword and bayonet, but also by the cannon, which were loaded with grape shot,
and, being excellently served, did great execution. Towards evening the confusion among them
increased to such a degree, that in all probability they would have been entirely routed, had
they not been favoured by the approaching darkness, as well as by a particular operation which
was very gallantly performed. One of the Russian generals perceiving the fortune of the day
turned against him, rallied a select body of troops, and made a vigorous impression on the
right wing of the Prussians. This effort diverted their attention so strongly to that quarter,
that the right of the Russians enjoyed a respite, during which they retired in tolerable order,
and occupied a new post on the right, where the rest of their forces were the more easily assembled.
In this battle they are said to have lost above fifteen thousand men, thirty-seven colours,
five standards, twelve mortars, the greater part of their baggage, and above one hundred pieces
of cannon. Among the prisoners that fell into the hands of the victor, were several general
officers, and a good number lost their lives on the field of battle. The victory cost the king
above two thousand men, including some officers of distinction, particularly two aide-de-camps,
who attended his own person, which he exposed without scruple to all the perils of the day.
It would have redounded still more to his glory, had he put a stop to the carnage; for, after
all resistance was at an end, the wretched Russians were hewn down without mercy. It must be
owned, indeed, that the Prussian soldiers were, in a peculiar manner, exasperated against this
enemy, because they had laid waste the country, burned the villages, ruined the peasants, and
committed many horrid acts of barbarity, which the practice of war could not authorize. [467]
[See note 3 P, at the end of this Vol.] The Prussian army passed the night under arms, and
next morning the cannonade was renewed against the enemy, who, nevertheless, maintained their
position without flinching. On the twenty-seventh, they seemed determined to hazard another
action, and even attack the conquerors; instead of advancing, however, they took the route
of Lands-berg; but afterwards turned off towards Vietzel, and posted themselves between the
rivers Warta and that village. Immediately after the battle, general Fermer,* who had received
a slight wound in the action, sent a trumpet with a letter to lieutenant-general Dohna, desiring
a suspension of arms for two or three days to bury the dead, and take care of the wounded;
and presenting to his Prussian majesty the humble request of general Browne, who was much weakened
with the loss of blood, that he might have a passport, by virtue of which he could be removed
to a place where he should find such accommodation as his situation required.

     * General Fermer was of Scottish extract, and general Browne
     actually a native of North Britain.

In answer to this message, count Dohna gave the Russian general to understand, that as his
Prussian majesty remained master of the field, he would give the necessary orders for interring
the dead, and taking care of the wounded on both sides: he refused a suspension of arms, but
granted the request of general Browne; and concluded his letter by complaining of the outrages
which the Russian troops still continued to commit, in pillaging and burning the king's villages.

The king of Prussia had no sooner repulsed the enemy in one quarter, than his presence was
required in another. When he quitted Bohemia, mareschal Daun, at the head of the Austrian army,
and the prince de Deuxponts, who commanded the forces of the empire, advanced to the Elbe,
in order to surround the king's brother, prince Henry, who, without immediate succour, would
not have been able to preserve his footing in Saxony. The Prussian monarch, therefore, determined
to support him with all possible expedition. In a few days after the battle he began his march
from Custrin, with a reinforcement of twenty-four battalions and great part of his cavalry,
and pursued his route with such unwearied diligence, that by the fifth day of September lie
reached Torgau, and on the eleventh joined his brother. Mareschal Daun had posted himself at
Stolpen, to the eastward of the Elbe, in order to preserve an easy communication with the army
of the empire encamped in the neighbourhood of Koningstein, to favour the operations of general
Laudohn, who had advanced through the Lower Lusatia to the frontiers of Brandenburgh; to make
a diversion from the southern parts of Silesia, where a body of Austrian troops acted under
the command of the generals Harsche and de Ville; and to interrupt the communication between
prince Henry and the capital of Saxony. On the fifth day of September, the garrison in the
strong fortress of Koningstein surrendered themselves prisoners of war, after a very feeble
resistance, to the prince de Detixponts, who forthwith took possession of the strong camp at
Pima. When the king of Prussia therefore arrived at Dresden, he found the army of the empire
in this position, and mareschal Daun in a still stronger situation at Stolpen, with bridges
of communication thrown over the Elbe, so that he could not attack them with any prospect of
advantage. He had no other resolution to take but that of endeavouring to cut them off from
supplies of provisions, and with this view he marched to Bautzen, which he occupied. This motion
obliged the Austrian general to quit his camp at Stolpen, but he chose another of equal strength
at Libau; yet he afterwards advanced to Rittlitz, that he might be at hand to seize the first
favourable occasion of executing the resolution he had formed to attack the Prussians. The
king having detached general Ratzow on his left, to take possession of Weissenberg, marched
forwards with the body of his army, and posted himself in the neighbourhood of Hochkirchen,
after having dislodged the Austrians from that village. Matters were now brought to such a
delicate crisis, that a battle seemed inevitable, and equally desired by both parties, as an
event that would determine whether the Austrians should be obliged to retreat for winter-quarters
into Bohemia, or be enabled to maintain their ground in Saxony. In this situation mareschal
Daun resolved to act offensively; and formed a scheme for attacking the right flank of the
Prussians by surprise. This measure was suggested to him by an oversight of the Prussians,
who had neglected to occupy the heights that commanded the village of Hochkirchen, which was
only guarded by a few free companies. He determined to take the advantage of a very dark night,
and to employ the flower of his whole army on this important service, well knowing, that should
they penetrate through the flank of the enemy, the whole Prussian army would be disconcerted,
and in all probability entirely ruined. Having taken his measures with wonderful secrecy and
circumspection, the troops began to move in the night between the thirteenth and fourteenth
of October, favoured by a thick fog, which greatly increased the darkness of the night. Their
first care was to take possession of the hill that commanded Hochkirchen, from whence they
poured down upon the village, of which they took possession, after having cut in pieces the
free companies posted there. The action began in this quarter about four in the morning, and
continued several hours with great fury, for, notwithstanding the impetuous efforts of the
Austrian troops, and the confusion occasioned among the Prussians by the surprise, a vigorous
stand was made by some general officers, who, with admirable expedition and presence of mind,
assembled and arranged the troops as they could take to their arms, and led them up to the
attack without distinction of regiment, place, or precedence. While the action was obstinately
and desperately maintained in this place, amidst all the horrors of darkness, carnage, and
confusion, the king being alarmed, exerted all his personal activity, address, and recollection,
in drawing regularity from disorder, arranging the different corps, altering positions, reinforcing
weak posts, encouraging the soldiery, and opposing the efforts of the enemy; for although they
made their chief impression upon the right, by the village of Hochkirchen, mareschal Daun,
in order to divide the attention of the king, made another attack upon the left, which was
with difficulty sustained, and effectually prevented him from sending reinforcements to the
right, where mareschal Keith, under the greatest disadvantages, bore the brunt of the enemy's
chief endeavours. Thus the battle raged till nine in the morning, when this gallant officer
was shot through the heart. Prince Francis of Brunswick had met with the same fate; prince
Maurice of Anhault was wounded and taken prisoner, and many others were either slain or disabled.
As the right wing had been surprised, the tents continued standing, and greatly embarrassed
them in their defence. The soldiers had never been properly drawn up in order; the enemy still
persevered in their attack with successive reinforcements and redoubled resolution; and a considerable
slaughter was made by their artillery, which they had brought up to the heights of Hochkirchen.
All these circumstances concurring, could not fail to increase the confusion and disaster of
the Prussians; so that about ten the king was obliged to retire to Dobreschutz, with the loss
of seven thousand men, of all his tents, and part of his baggage. Nor had the Austrian general
much cause to boast of his victory. His loss of men was pretty nearly equal to that of the
Prussian monarch; and, whatever reputation he might have acquired in foiling that enterprising
prince, certainly his design did not take effect in its full extent, for the Prussians were
next day in a condition to hazared another engagement. The king of Prussia had sustained no
damage which he could not easily repair, except the death of mareschal Keith, which was doubtless
an irreparable misfortune. [468] [See note 3 Q, at the end of this Vol.]

His Prussian majesty remained with his army ten days at Dobreschutz, during which he endeavoured
to bring the Austrians to a second engagement; but count Daun declined the invitation, and
kept his forces advantageously posted on eminences planted with artillery. His aim having been
frustrated at Hochkirchen, where he fought with many advantages on his side, he would not hazard
another battle upon equal terms, with such an enterprising enemy, rendered more vigilant by
the check he had received, already reinforced from the army of prince Henry, and eager for
an opportunity to retrieve the laurel which had been snatched from him by the wiles of stratagem,
rather than by the hand of valour. Count Daun, having nothing more to hope from the active
operations of his own army, contented himself with amusing the Prussian monarch in Lusatia,
while the Austrian generals, Harsche and De Ville, should prosecute the reduction of Neiss
and Cosel in Silesia, which they now actually invested. As the Prussian monarch could not spare
detachments to oppose every different corps of his enemies that acted against him in different
parts of his dominions, he resolved to make up in activity what he wanted in number, and, if
possible, to raise the siege of Neiss in person. With this view he decamped from Dobreschutz,
and, in sight of the enemy, marched to Goerlitz without the least interruption. From thence
he proceeded towards Silesia with his usual expedition, notwithstanding all the endeavours
and activity of general Laudohn, who harassed the rear of the Prussians, and gained some petty
advantages over them.. Count Daun not only sent this detached corps to retard them in their
march; but at the same time, by another route, detached a strong reinforcement to the army
of the besiegers. In the meantime, having received intelligence that the army of prince Henry
in Saxony was considerably weakened, he himself marched thither, in hopes of expelling the
prince from that country, and reducing the capital in the king's absence. Indeed, his designs
were still more extensive, for he proposed to reduce Dresden, Leipsic, and Torgau, at the same
time; the first with the main body under his own direction, the second by the army of the empire
under the prince de Deuxponts, and the third by a corps under general Haddick, while the forces
directed by Laudohn should exclude the king from Lusatia. In execution of this plan he marched
directly to the Elbe, which he passed at Pima, and advanced to Dresden, which he hoped would
surrender without putting him to the trouble of a formal siege. The army of prince Henry had
already retired to the westward of this capital before the prince de Deuxponts, who had found
means to cut off his communication with Leipsic, and even invested that city. During these
transactions general Haddick advanced against Torgau.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

SUBURBS OF DRESDEN BURNT.

The field-mareschal count Daun appearing on the sixth day of November within sight of Dresden,
at the head of sixty thousand men, encamped next day at Lockowitz, and on the eighth his advanced
troops attacked the Prussian hussars and independent battalions, which were posted at Striessen
and Gruenewiese. Count Schmettau, who commanded the garrison, amounting to ten thousand men,
apprehensive that, in the course of skirmishing, the Austrian troops might enter the suburbs
pell-mell, posted colonel Itzenplitz, with seven hundred men, in the redoubts that surrounded
the suburbs, that in case of emergency they might support the irregulars; at the same time,
as the houses that constituted the suburbs were generally so high as to overlook the ramparts
and command the city, he prepared combustibles, and gave notice to the magistrates that they
would be set on fire as soon as an Austrian should appear within the place. This must have
been a dreadful declaration to the inhabitants of these suburbs, which compose one of the most
elegant towns in Europe. In these houses, which were generally lofty and magnificent, the fashionable
and wealthy class of people resided, and here a number of artists carried on a variety of curious
manufactures. In vain the magistrates implored the mercy and forbearance of the Prussian governor,
and represented, in the most submissive strain, that as they were unconcerned in the war, they
hoped they should be exempted from the horrors of devastation. In vain the royal family, who
remained at Dresden, conjured him to spare that last refuge of distressed royalty, and allow
them at least a secure residence, since they were deprived of every other comfort. He continued
inflexible, or rather determined to execute the orders of his master, which indeed he could
not disobey with any regard to his own safety. On the ninth day of November, about noon, the
Austrian vanguard attacked the advanced post of the garrison, repelled the hussars, drove the
independent battalions into the suburbs, and forced three of the redoubts, while their cannon
played upon the town. The governor, expecting a vigorous attack next day, recalled his troops
within the city after they had set fire to the suburbs. At three in the morning the signal
was made for this terrible conflagration, which in a little time reduced to ashes the beautiful
suburbs of Pirna, which had so lately flourished as the seat of gaity, pleasure, and the ingenious
arts. Every bosom warmed with benevolence must be affected at the recital of such calamities.
It excites not only our compassion for the unhappy sufferers, but also our resentment against
the perpetrators of such enormity. Next day mareschal Daun sent an officer to count Schmettau,
with a message, expressing his surprise at the destruction of the suburbs in a royal residence,
an act of inhumanity unheard of among christians. He desired to know if it was by the governor's
order this measure was taken; and assured him, that he should be responsible in his person
for whatever outrages had been or might be committed against a place in which a royal family
resided. Schmettau gave him to understand, that he had orders to defend the town to the last
extremity, and that the preservation of what remained depended entirely on the conduct of his
excellency; for, should he think proper to attack the place, he (the governor) would defend
himself from house to house, and from street to street, and even make his last effort in the
royal palace, rather than abandon the city. He excused the destruction of the suburbs as a
necessary measure, authorized by the practice of war; but he would have found it a difficult
task to reconcile this step to the laws of eternal justice, and far less to the dictates of
common humanity. Indeed, if the scene had happened in an enemy's country, or if no other step
could have saved the lives and liberties of himself and his garrison, such a desperate remedy
might have stood excused by the law of nature and of nations; but on this occasion he occupied
a neutral city, over which he could exercise no other power and authority but that which he
derived from illegal force and violence; nor was he at all reduced to the necessity of sacrificing
the place to his own safety, inasmuch as he might have retired unmolested, by virtue of an
honourable capitulation, which, however, he did not demand. Whether the peremptory order of
a superior will, in foro conscientio, justify an officer who hath committed an illegal or inhuman
action, is a question that an English reader will scarce leave to the determination of a German
casuist with one hundred and fifty thousand armed men in his retinue. Be this as it will, Mr.
Ponickau, the Saxon minister, immediately after this tragedy was acted, without waiting for
his master's orders, presented a memorial to the diet of the empire, complaining of it as an
action reserved for the history of the war which the king of Prussia had kindled in Germany,
to be transmitted to future ages. He affirmed that, in execution of Schmettau's orders, the
soldiers had dispersed themselves in the streets of the Pirna and Witchen suburbs, broke open
the houses and shops, set fire to the combustibles, added fresh fuel, and then shut the doors;
that the violence of the flames was kept up by red-hot balls fired into the houses, and along
the streets; that the wretched inhabitants, who forsook their burning houses, were slain by
the fire of the cannon and small arms; that those who endeavoured to save their persons and
effects were pushed down and destroyed by the bayonets of the Prussian soldiers posted in the
streets for that purpose: he enumerated particular instances of inhuman barbarity, and declared
that a great number of people perished, either amidst the flames, or under the ruins of the
houses. The destruction of two hundred and fifty elegant houses, and the total ruin of the
inhabitants, were circumstances in themselves so deplorable, as to need no aggravation; but
the account of the Saxon minister was shamefully exaggerated, and all the particular instances
of cruelty false in every circumstance. Baron Plotho, the minister of Brandenburgh, did not
fail to answer every article of the Saxon memorial, and refute the particulars therein alleged,
in a fair detail, authenticated by certificates under the hands of the magistrates, judges,
and principal inhabitants of Dresden. The most extraordinary part of this defence or vindication
was the conclusion, in which the baron solemnly assured the diet, that the king of Prussia,
from his great love to mankind, always felt the greatest emotion of soul, and the most exquisite
concern, at the effusion of blood, the devastation of cities and countries, and the horrors
of war, by which so many thousand fellow-creatures were overwhelmed; and that if his sincere
and honest inclination to procure peace to Germany, his dear country, had met with the least
regard, the present war, attended with such bloodshed and desolation, would have been prevented
and avoided. He, therefore, declared that those who excited the present troubles, who, instead
of extinguishing, threw oil upon the flames, must answer to God for the seas of blood that
had been and would be shed, for the devastation of so many countries, and the entire ruin of
so many innocent individuals. Such declarations cost nothing to those hardened politicians,
who, feeling no internal check, are determined to sacrifice every consideration to the motives
of rapacity and ambition. It would be happy, however, for mankind, were princes taught to believe
that there is really an omnipotent and all-judging power, that will exact a severe account
of their conduct, and punish them for their guilt, with out any respect to their persons; that
pillaging a whole people is more cruel than robbing a single person; and that the massacre
of thousands is, at least, as criminal as a private murder.

THE PRUSSIANS RAISE THE SIEGE OF NEISS, AND RELIEVE DRESDEN.

While count Daun was employed in making a fruitless attempt upon the capital of Saxony, the
king of Prussia proceeded in his march to Neiss, which was completely invested on the third
day of October. The operations of the siege were carried on with great vigour by the Austrian
general De Harsche, and the place was as vigorously defended by the Prussian governor, Theskau,
till the first day of November, when the Prussian monarch approached, and obliged the besiegers
to abandon their enterprise. M. de Harsche having raised the siege, the king detached general
Pouquet with a body of troops across the river Neiss, and immediately the blockade of Cosel
was likewise abandoned. De Harsche retired to Bohemia, and De Ville hovered about Jagernsdorf.
The fortress of Neiss was no sooner relieved, than the king of Prussia began his march on his
return to Saxony, where his immediate presence was required. At the same time, the two bodies
under the generals Dohna and Wedel penetrated by different routes into that country. The former
had been left at Custrin, to watch the motions of the Russians, who had by this time retreated
to the Vistula, and even crossed that river at Thorn; and the other had, during the campaign,
observed the Swedes, who had now entirely evacuated the Prussian territories, so that Wedel
was at liberty to co-operate with the king in Saxony. He accordingly marched to Torgau, the
siege of which had been undertaken by the Austrian general Haddick, who was repulsed by Wedel,
and even pursued to the neighbourhood of Eulenbourg. Wedel, being afterwards joined by Dohna,
drove him from thence with considerable loss, and then raised the siege of Leipsic. Meanwhile,
the king prosecuted his march towards the capital of Saxony, driving before him the body of
Austrian troops under Laudohn, who retreated to Zittau. On the tenth day of November count
Daun retired from Dresden, and with the army of the empire fell back towards Bohemia; and on
the twentieth the king arrived in that city, where he approved of the governor's conduct. The
Russian general foreseeing that he should not be able to maintain his ground during the winter
in Poinerania, unless he could secure some sea-port on the Baltic, by which he might be supplied
with provisions, detached general Palmbach, with fifteen thousand men, to besiege the town
of Colberg, an inconsiderable place, very meanly fortified. It was accordingly invested on
the third day of October; but the besiegers were either so ill provided with proper implements,
or so little acquainted with operations of this nature, that the garrison, though feeble, maintained
the place against all their attacks for six-and-twenty days; at the expiration of which they
abandoned their enterprise, and cruelly ravaged the open country in their retreat. Thus, by
the activity and valour of the Prussian monarch, his generals and officers, six sieges were
raised almost at the same period, namely, those of Colberg, Neiss, Cosel, Torgau, Leipsic,
and Dresden.

INHABITANTS OF SAXONY OPPRESSED.

The variety of fortune which the king of Prussia experienced in the course of this campaign
was very remarkable; but the spirit of his conduct, and the rapidity of his motions, were altogether
without example. In the former campaign we were dazzled with the lustre of his victories; in
this we admire his fortitude and skill in stemming the different torrents of adversity, and
rising superior to his evil fortune. One can hardly without astonishment recollect, that in
the course of a few months he invaded Moravia, invested Olmutz, and was obliged to relinquish
that design, that he marched through an enemy's country, in the face of a great army, which,
though it harassed him in his retreat, could not, in a route of an hundred miles, obtain any
advantage over him; that in spite of his disaster at Olmutz, and the difficulties of such a
march, he penetrated into Bohemia, drove the enemy from Koningsgratz, executed another dangerous
and fatiguing march to the Oder, defeated a great army of Russians, and returned by the way
of Saxony, from whence he drove the Austrian and Imperial armies; that after his defeat at
Hochkirchen, where he lost two of his best generals, and was obliged to leave his tents standing,
he baffled the vigilance and superior number of the victorious army, rushed like a whirlwind
to the relief of Silesia, invaded by an Austrian army, which he compelled to retire with precipitation
from that province; that, with the same rapidity of motion, he wheeled about to Saxony, and
once more rescued it from the hands of his adversaries; that in one campaign he made twice
the circuit of his dominions, relieved them all in their turns, and kept all his possessions
entire against the united efforts of numerous armies, conducted by generals of consummate skill
and undaunted resolution. His character would have been still more complete, if his moderation
had been equal to his courage; but in this particular we cannot applaud his conduct. Incensed
by the persecuting spirit of his enemies, he wrecked his vengeance on those who had done him
no injury; and the cruelties which the Russians had committed in his dominions were retaliated
upon the unfortunate inhabitants of Saxony. In the latter end of September, the president of
the Prussian military directory sent a letter to the magistrates of Leipsic, requiring them,
in the king's name, to pay a new contribution of six hundred thousand crowns, and to begin
immediately with the payment of one-third part, on pain of military execution. In answer to
this demand, the magistrates represented that the city having been exhausted by the enormous
contributions already raised, was absolutely incapable of furnishing further supplies; that
the trade was stagnated and ruined, and the inhabitants so impoverished, that they could no
longer pay the ordinary taxes. This remonstrance made no impression. At five in the morning
the Prussian soldiers assembled, and were posted in all the streets, squares, market-places,
cemeteries, towers, and steeples; then the gates being shut, in order to exclude the populace
of the suburbs from the city, the senators were brought into the town-hall, and accosted by
general Hauss, who told them, the king his master would have money; and, if they refused to
part with it, the city should be plundered. To this peremptory address they replied to this
effect:--"We have no more money,--we have nothing left but life; and we recommend ourselves
to the king's mercy." In consequence of this declaration, dispositions were made for giving
up the city to be plundered. Cannon were planted in all the streets, the inhabitants were ordered
to remain within doors, and every house resounded with dismal cries and lamentations. The dreaded
pillage, however, was converted into a regular exaction. A party of soldiers, commanded by
a subaltern, went from house to house, signifying to every burgher, that he should produce
all his specie, on pain of immediate pillage and massacre; and every inhabitant delivered up
his all without further hesitation. About six in the evening, the soldiers returned to their
quarters; but the magistrates were detained in confinement, and all the citizens were overwhelmed
with grief and consternation. Happy Britain, who knowest such grievances only by report! When
the king of Prussia first entered Saxony, at the beginning of the war, he declared he had no
design to make a conquest of that electorate, but only to keep it as a depositum for the security
of his own dominions, until he could oblige his enemies to acquiesce in reasonable terms of
peace; but upon his last arrival at Dresden he adopted a new resolution. In the beginning of
December, the Prussian directory of war issued a decree to the deputies of the states of the
electorate, demanding a certain quantity of flour and forage, according to the convention formerly
settled; at the same time signifying, that though the king of Prussia had hitherto treated
the electorate as a country taken under his special protection, the face of affairs was now
changed in such a manner, that for the future he would consider it in no other light than that
of a conquered country. The Russians had seized in Prussia all the estates and effects belonging
to the king's officers: a retaliation was now made upon the effects of the Saxon officers,
who served in the Russian army. Seals were put on all the cabinets containing papers belonging
to the privy-counsellors of his Polish majesty, and they themselves ordered to depart for Warsaw
at a very short warning. Though the city had been impoverished by former exactions, and very
lately subjected to military execution, the king of Prussia demanded fresh contributions, and
even extorted them by dint of severities that shock humanity. He surrounded the exchange with
soldiers, and confining the merchants to straw beds and naked apartments, obliged them to draw
bills for very large sums on their foreign correspondents: a method of proceeding much more
suitable to the despotism of a Persian sophi towards a conquered people who professed a different
faith, than reconcileable to the character of a protestant prince towards a peaceable nation
of brethren, with whom he was connected by the common ties of neighbourhood and religion. Even
if they had acted as declared enemies, and been subdued with arms in their hands, the excesses
of war on the side of the conqueror ought to have ceased with the hostilities of the conquered,
who, by submitting to his sway, would have become his subjects, and in that capacity had a
claim to his protection. To retaliate upon the Saxons, who had espoused no quarrel, the barbarities
committed by the Russians, with whom he was actually at war; and to treat as a conquered province
a neutral country, which his enemies had entered by violence, and been obliged to evacuate
by force of arms, was a species of conduct founded on pretences which overturn all right, and
confound all reason.

PROGRESS OF THE SWEDES IN POMERANIA.

Having recorded all the transactions of the campaign, except those in which the Swedes were
concerned, it now remains that we should particularize the progress which was made in Pomerania
by the troops of that nation, under the command of count Hamilton. We have already observed,
that in the beginning of the year the Prussian general, Lehwald, had compelled them to evacuate
the whole province, except Stralsund, which was likewise invested. This, in all probability,
would have been besieged in form, had not Lehwald resigned the command of the Prussians, on
account of his great age and infirmities; and his successor, count Dohna, been obliged to withdraw
his troops in order to oppose the Russian army on the other side of Pomerania. The blockade
of Stralsund being consequently raised, and that part of the country being entirely evacuated
by the Prussians, the Swedish troops advanced again from the isle of Rugen, to which, they
had retired; but the supplies and reinforcements they expected from Stockholm were delayed
in such a manner, either from a deficiency in the subsidies promised by France, or from the
management of those who were averse to the war, that great part of the season was elapsed before
they undertook any important enterprise. Indeed, while they lay encamped under the cannon of
Stralsund, waiting for these supplies, their operations were retarded by the explosion of a
whole ship-load of gunpowder intended for their use; an event imputed to the practices of the
Prussian party in Sweden, which at this period seemed to gain ground, and even threatened a
change in the ministry. At length the reinforcement arrived about the latter end of June, and
their general seemed determined to act with vigour. In the beginning of July, his army being
put in motion, he sent a detachment to dislodge the few Prussian troops that were left at Anclam,
Demmin, and other places, to guard that frontier; and they retreated accordingly. Count Hamilton
having nothing further to oppose him in the field, in a very little time recovered all Swedish
Pomerania, and even made hot incursions into the Prussian territories. Meanwhile, a combined
fleet of thirty-three Russian and seven Swedish ships of war appeared in the Baltic, and anchored
between the isles of Dragoe and Amagh; but they neither landed troops nor committed hostilities.
The Swedish general advanced as far as Fehrbellin, sent out parties that raised contributions
within five and twenty miles of Berlin, and threw the inhabitants of that capital into the
utmost consternation. The king of Prussia, alarmed at their progress, despatched general Wedel
from Dresden, with a body of troops that were augmented on their march; so that, on the twentieth
of September, he found himself at Berlin with eleven thousand effective men, at the head of
whom he proceeded against count Hamilton, while the prince of Bevern, with five thousand, advanced
on the other side from Stetin. At their approach, the Swedish commander retired, after having
left a garrison of fourteen hundred men at Fehrbellin in order to retard the Prussians, and
secure the retreat of his army. The place was immediately attacked by general Wedel; and though
the Swedes disputed the ground from house to house with uncommon obstinacy, he at last drove
them out of the town, with the loss of one half of their number either killed or taken prisoners.
The body of the Swedish army, without hazarding any other action, immediately evacuated the
Prussian territories, and returned to the neighbourhood of Stralsund, intending to take winter-quarters
in the isle of Rugen. Count Hamilton, either disgusted at the restrictions he had been laid
under, or finding himself unable to act in such a manner as might redound to the advantage
of his reputation, threw up his command, retired from the army, and resigned all his other
employments.

PRINCE CHARLES OF SAXONY ELECTED DUKE OF COURLAND.

The king of Prussia was not only favoured by a considerable party in Sweden, but he had also
raised a strong interest in Poland, among such Palatines as had always opposed the measures
of the reigning family. These were now reinforced by many patriots, who dreaded the vicinity
and suspected the designs of the Russian army. The diet of the republic was opened on the second
day of November; and, after warm debates, M. Malachowski was unanimously elected mareschal;
but no sooner had the chambers of nuncios begun their deliberations, than a number of voices
were raised against the encroachments of the Russian troops, who had taken up their residence
in Poland; and heavy complaints were made of the damages sustained from their cruelty and rapine.
Great pains were taken to appease these clamours; and many were prevailed upon to refer these
grievances to the king in senate; but when this difficulty seemed almost surmounted, Padhorski,
the nuncio of Volhinia, stood up, and declared that he would not permit any other point to
be discussed in the diet while the Russians maintained the least footing within the territories
of the republic. Vain were all the attempts of the courtiers to persuade and mollify this inflexible
patriot, he solemnly protested against their proceedings, and hastily withdrew; so that the
mareschal was obliged to dissolve the assembly, and recourse was had to a senatus consilium,
to concert proper measures to be taken in the present conjuncture. The king of Poland was on
this occasion likewise disappointed in his views of providing for his son, prince Charles,
in the duchy of Courland. He had been recommended by the court of Russia, and even approved
by the states of that country; but two difficulties occurred. The states declared, they could
not proceed to a new election during the life of their former duke, count Biron, who was still
alive, though a prisoner in Siberia, unless their duchy should be declared vacant by the king
and republic of Poland; and, according to the laws of that country, no prince could be elected
until he should have declared himself of the Augsburgh confession. His Polish majesty, however,
being determined to surmount all obstacles to his son's interest, ordered count Malachowski,
high chancellor of Poland, to deliver to prince Charles a diploma, by which the king granted
permission to the states of Courland to elect that prince for their duke, and appointed the
day for his election and instalment; which accordingly took place in the month of January,
notwithstanding the clamour of many Polish grandees, who persisted in affirming that the king
had no power to grant such permission without the consent of the diet. The vicissitudes of
the campaign had produced no revolutions in the several systems adopted by the different powers
in Europe. The czarina, who in the month of June had signified her sentiments and designs against
the king of Prussia, in a declaration delivered to all the foreign ministers at Petersburgh,
seemed now, more than ever, determined to act vigorously in behalf of the empress-queen of
Hungary, and the unfortunate king of Poland, who still resided at Warsaw. The court of Vienna
distributed among the imperial ministers at the several courts of the empire, copies of a rescript
explaining the conduct of her generals since the beginning of the campaign, and concluded with
expressions of self-approbation to this effect: "Though the issue of the campaign be not as
yet entirely satisfactory, and such as might be desired, the imperial court enjoys, at least,
the sincere satisfaction of reflecting, that, according to the change of circumstances, it
instantly took the most vigorous resolutions; that it was never deficient in any thing that
might contribute to the good of the common cause, and is now employed in making preparations,
from which the most happy consequences may be expected."

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

THE KING OF ENGLAND'S MEMORIAL.

We have already hinted at a decree of the Aulic council of the empire, published in the month
of August, enjoining all directors of circles, all imperial towns, and the noblesse of the
empire, to transmit to Vienna an exact list of all those who had disobeyed the avocatoria of
the empire, and adhered to the rebellion raised by the elector of Brandenburgh; that their
revenues might be sequestered, and themselves punished in their honours, persons, and effects.
As the elector of Hanover was plainly pointed out, and, indeed, expressly mentioned in this
decree, the king of Great Britain, by the hands of baron Gemmegen, his electoral minister,
presented a memorial to the diet of the empire in the month of November, enumerating the instances
in which he exerted himself, and even exposed his life, for the preservation and aggrandizement
of the house of Austria. In return for these important services, he observed, that the empress-queen
had refused him the assistance stipulated in treaties against an invasion planned by France,
whose hatred he had drawn upon himself by his friendship to that princess; and his imperial
majesty even denied him the dictatorial letters which he solicited; that the court of Vienna
had signed a treaty with the crown of France, in which it was stipulated that the French troops
should pass the Weser, and invade the electorate of Hanover, where they were joined by the
troops of the empress-queen, who ravaged his Britannic majesty's dominions with greater cruelty
than even the French had practised; and the same duke of Cumberland, who had been wounded at
Dettingen in the defence of her imperial majesty, was obliged to fight at Hastenbeck against
the troops of that very princess, in defence of his father's dominions; that she sent commissaries
to Hanover, who shared with the crown of France the contributions extorted from that electorate;
rejected all proposals of peace, and dismissed from her court the minister of Brunswick-Lunenbourg;
that his imperial majesty, who had sworn to protect the empire, and oppose the entrance of
foreign troops destined to oppress any of the states of Germany, afterwards required the king
of England to withdraw his troops from the countries which they occupied, that the French army
might again have free passage into his German dominions; that the emperor had recalled these
troops, released them from their allegiance to their sovereign, enjoined them to abandon their
posts, their colours, and the service in which they were embarked, on pain of being punished
in body, honour, and estate: and that the king of England himself was threatened with the ban
of the empire. He took notice, that, in quality of elector, he had been accused of refusing
to concur with the resolutions of the diet taken in the preceding year; of entering into alliance
with the king of Prussia; joining his troops to the armies of that prince; employing auxiliaries
belonging to the states of the empire; sending English forces into Germany, where they had
taken possession of Embden; and exacting contributions in different parts of Germany. In answer
to these imputations, he alleged that he could not, consistent with his own safety or the dictates
of common sense, concur with a majority in joining his troops, which were immediately necessary
for his own defence, to those which, from the arbitrary views of the court of Vienna, were
led against his friend and ally the king of Prussia, by a prince who did not belong to the
generality of the empire, and on whom the command had been conferred without a previous conclusion
of the Germanic body; that, with respect to his alliance with the king of Prussia, he had a
right, when deserted by his former allies, to seek assistance wheresoever it could be procured;
and surely no just ground of complaint could be offered against that which his Prussian majesty
lent, to deliver the electoral states of Brunswick, as well as those of Brunswick-Wolfenbuttel,
Hesse, and Ruckebourg, from the oppressions of their common enemy. Posterity, he said, would
hardly believe, that at a time when the troops of Austria, the Palatinate, and Wirtemberg,
were engaged to invade the countries of the empire, other members of the Germanic body, who
employed auxiliaries in their defence, should be threatened with outlawry and sequestration.
He owned, that, in quality of king, he had sent over English troops to Germany, and taken possession
of Embden; steps for which he was accountable to no power upon earth, although the constitutions
of the empire permit the co-estates to make use of foreign troops, not indeed for the purpose
of invasion or conquest in Germany, but for their defence and preservation. He also acknowledged
that he had resented the conduct, and chastised the injustice, of those co-estates who had
assisted his enemies, and helped to ravage his dominions; inferring, that if the crown of France
was free to pillage the estates of the duke of Brunswick and the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel,
because they had supplied the king of England with auxiliaries; if the empress-queen had a
right to appropriate to herself half of the contributions raised by the French king in these
countries; surely his Britannic majesty had an equal right to make those feel the burden of
the war who had favoured the unjust enterprises of his enemies. He expressed his hope, that
the diet, after having duly considered these circumstances, would, by way of advice, propose
to his imperial majesty that he should annul his most inconsistent mandates, and not only take
effectual measures to protect the electorate and its allies, but also give orders for commencing
against the empress-queen, as archduchess of Austria, the elector Palatine, and the duke of
Wirtemberg, such proceedings as she wanted to enforce against his Britannic majesty, elector
of Brunswick-Lunenbourg. For this purpose the minister now requested their excellencies to
ask immediately the necessary instructions for their principals. The rest of this long memorial
contained a justification of his Britannic majesty's conduct in deviating from the capitulation
of Closter-Seven; with a refutation of the arguments adduced, and a retortion of the reproaches
levelled against the king of England, in the paper or manifesto composed and published under
the direction of the French ministry, and intituled, "A parallel of the conduct of the king
of France with that of the king of England, relative to the breach of the capitulation of Closter-Seven
by the Hanoverians." But to this invective a more circumstantial answer was published; in which,
among other curious particulars, the letter of expostulation, said to have been written by
the Prussian monarch to the king of Great Britain after the defeat of Kolin is treated as an
infamous piece of forgery, produced by some venal pen employed to impose upon the public. The
author also, in his endeavours to demonstrate his Britannic majesty's aversion to a continental
war, very justly observes, that "none but such as are unacquainted with the maritime force
of England, can believe, that, without a diversion on the continent, to employ part of the
enemy's force, she is not in a condition to hope for success, and maintain her superiority
at sea. England, therefore, had no interest to foment quarrels or wars in Europe; but, for
the same reason, there was room to fear that France would embrace a different system; accordingly,
she took no pains to conceal her views, and her envoys declared publicly that a war upon the
continent was inevitable, and that the king's dominions in Germany would be its principal object."
He afterwards, in the course of his argumentation, adds, "That they must be very ignorant indeed,
who imagine that the forces of England are not able to resist those of France, unless the latter
be hindered from turning all her efforts to the sea. In case of a war upon the continent, the
two powers must pay subsidies; only with this difference, that France can employ her own land-forces,
and aspire at conquests." Such were the professed sentiments of the British ministry, founded
upon eternal truth and demonstration, and openly avowed, when the business was to prove that
it was not the interest of Great Britain to maintain a war upon the continent; but afterwards,
when this continental war was eagerly espoused, fostered, and cherished by the blood and treasure
of the English nation, then the partisans of that very ministry, which had thus declared that
England, without any diversion on the continent of Europe, was an overmatch for France by sea,
which maybe termed the British element; then their partisans, their champions, declaimers,
and dependents, were taught to rise in rebellion against their former doctrine, and, in defiance
of common sense and reflection, affirm that a diversion in Germany was absolutely necessary
to the successful issue of England's operations in Asia, Africa, and America. Notwithstanding
all the facts and arguments assembled in this elaborate memorial, to expose the ingratitude
of the empress-queen, and demonstrate the oppressive measures adopted by the imperial power,
it remains to be proved, that the member of a community is not obliged to yield obedience to
the resolutions taken, and the decrees published, by the majority of those who compose this
community; especially when reinforced with the authority of the supreme magistrate, and not
repugnant to the fundamental constitution on which that community was established.

DEATH OF POPE BENEDICT.

If the empress-queen was not gratified to the extent of her wishes in the fortune of the campaign,
at least her self-importance was nattered in another point, which could not fail of being interesting
to a princess famed for a glowing zeal and inviolable attachment to the religion of Rome. In
the month of August the pope conferred upon her the title of apostolical queen of Hungary,
conveyed by a brief, in which he extolled her piety, and launched out into retrospective eulogiums
of her predecessors, the princes of Hungary, who had been always accustomed to fight and overcome
for the catholic faith under his holy banner. This compliment, however, she did not derive
from the regard of Prosper Lambertini, who exercised the papal sway under the assumed name
of Benedict XIV. That pontiff, universally esteemed for his good sense, moderation, and humanity,
had breathed his last in the month of April, in the eighty-fourth year of his age; and in July
was succeeded in the papacy by cardinal Charles Bezzonico, bishop of Padua, by birth a Venetian.
He was formerly auditor of the Rota; afterwards promoted to the purple by pope Clement XII.
at the nomination of the republic of Venice; was distinguished by the title of St. Maria d'Ara
Coeli, the principal convent of the Cordeliers, and nominated protector of the Pandours, or
Illyrians. When he ascended the papal chair, he assumed the name of Clement XIII. in gratitude
to the last of that name, who was his benefactor. Though of a disagreeable person, and even
deformed in his body, he enjoyed good health, and a vigorous constitution. As an ecclesiastic,
his life was exemplary; his morals were pure and unimpeached; in his character he is said to
have been learned, diligent, steady, devout; and, in every respect, worthy to succeed such
a predecessor as Benedict.

KING OF PORTUGAL ASSASSINATED.

The king of Spain wisely persisted in reaping the advantages of a neutrality, notwithstanding
the intrigues of the French partisans at the court of Madrid, who endeavoured to alarm his
jealousy by the conquests which the English had projected in America. The king of Sardina sagaciously
kept aloof, resolving, in imitation of his predecessors, to maintain his power on a respectable
footing, and be ready to seize all opportunities to extend and promote the interest of his
crown, and the advantage of his country. As for the king of Portugal, he had prudently embraced
the same system of forbearance; but in the latter end of the season, his attention was engrossed
by a domestic incident of a very extraordinary nature. Whether he had, by particular instances
of severity, exasperated the minds of certain individuals, and exercised his dominion in such
acts of arbitrary power as excited a general spirit of disaffection among his nobility; or,
lastly, by the vigorous measures pursued against the encroaching Jesuits in Paraguay, and their
correspondents in Portugal, had incurred the resentment of that society, we shall not pretend
to determine: perhaps all these motives concurred in giving birth to a conspiracy against his
life, which was actually executed at this juncture with the most desperate resolution. On the
third day of September, the king, according to custom, going out in a carriage to take the
air, accompanied by one domestic, was, in the night, at a solitary place near Belem, attacked
by three men on horseback, armed with musquetoons, one of whom fired his piece at the coachman
without effect. The man, however, terrified both on his own account and that of his sovereign,
drove the mules at full speed; a circumstance which, in some measure, disconcerted the other
two conspirators, who pursued him at full gallop, and having no leisure to take aim, discharged
their pieces at random through the back of the carriage. The slugs with which they were loaded
happened to pass between the king's right arm and his breast, dilacerating the parts from the
shoulder to the elbow, but without damaging the bone, or penetrating into the cavity of the
body. Finding himself grievously wounded, and the blood flowing apace, he, with such presence
of mind as cannot be sufficiently admired, instead of proceeding to the palace, which was at
some distance, ordered the coachman to return to Junqueria, where his principal surgeon resided,
and there his wounds were immediately dressed. By this resolution he not only prevented the
irreparable mischief that might have arisen from an excessive effusion of blood; but, without
all doubt, saved his life from the bands of other assassins, posted on the road to accomplish
the regicide, in case he should escape alive from the first attack. This instance of the king's
recollection was magnified into a miracle, on a supposition that it must have been the effect
of divine inspiration; and, indeed, among a people addicted to superstition, might well pass
for a favourable interposition of Providence. The king being thus disabled in his right arm,
issued a decree, investing the queen with the absolute power of government. In the meantime,
no person had access to his presence but herself, the first minister, the cardinal de Saldanha,
the physicians, and surgeons. An embargo was immediately laid on all the shipping in the port
of Lisbon. Rewards were publicly offered, together with the promise of pardon to the accomplices,
for detecting any of the assassins; and such other measures used, that in a little time the
whole conspiracy was discovered: a conspiracy the more dangerous, as it appeared to have been
formed by persons of the first quality and influence. The duke de Weiro, of the family of Mascarenhas;
the marquis de Tavora, who had been viceroy of Goa, and now actually enjoyed the commission
of general of the horse; the count de Attougui, the marquis de Alloria, together with their
wives, children, and whole families, were arrested immediately after the assassination, as
principals in the design; and many other accomplices, including some Jesuits, were apprehended
in the sequel. The further proceedings on this mysterious affair, with the fate of the conspirators,
will be particularized among the transactions of the following year. At present it will be
sufficient to observe, that the king's wounds were attended with no bad consequences; nor did
the imprisonment of those noblemen produce any disturbance in the kingdom.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE FRENCH MINISTRY.

The domestic occurrences of France were tissued with a continuation of the disputes between
the parliaments and clergy, touching the bull Unigenitus. In vain the king had interposed his
authority: first proposing an accommodation; then commanding the parliament to forbear taking
cognizance of a religious contest, which did not fall under their jurisdiction; and, thirdly,
banishing their persons, and abrogating their power. He afterwards found it necessary to the
peace of his dominions to recall and reinstate those venerable patriots; and being convinced
of the intolerable insolence and turbulent spirit of the archbishop of Paris, had exiled that
prelate in his turn. He was no sooner re-admitted to his function, than he resumed his former
conduct, touching the denial of the sacraments to those who refused to acknowledge the bull
Unigenitus: he even acted with redoubled zeal; intrigued with the other prelates; caballed
among the inferior clergy; and not only revived, but augmented, the troubles throughout the
whole kingdom. Bishops, curates, and monks, presumed to withhold spiritual consolation from
persons in extremity, and were punished by the civil power. Other parliaments of the kingdom
followed the example exhibited by that of Paris, in asserting their authority and privileges.
The king commanded them to desist, on pain of incurring his indignation; they remonstrated,
and persevered; while the archbishop repeated his injunctions and censures, and continued to
inflame the dispute to such a dangerous degree, that he was given to understand he should be
again obliged to quit the capital, if he did not proceed with more moderation. But the chief
care of the French ministry was employed in regulating the finances, and establishing funds
of credit for raising money to pay subsidies, and maintain the war in Europe and America. In
the course of this year they had not only considerably reinforced their armies in Germany,
but made surprising efforts to supply the colony of Canada with troops, artillery, stores,
and ammunition, for its defence against the operations of the British forces, which greatly
outnumbered the French upon the continent. The court of Versailles practised every stratagem
to elude the vigilance of the English cruisers. The ships destined for America they detached,
both single and in convoys, sometimes from the Mediterranean, sometimes from their harbours
in the channel. They assembled transports in one port, in order to withdraw the attention of
their enemies from another, where their convoys lay ready for sailing; and in boisterous weather,
when the English could no longer block up their harbours, their store-ships came forth, and
hazarded the voyage for the relief of their American settlements. Those that had the good fortune
to arrive on the coast of that continent, were obliged to have recourse to different expedients
for escaping the British squadrons stationed at Halifax, or cruising in the bay of St. Laurence.
They either ventured to navigate the river before it was clear of the ice, so early in the
spring, that the enemy had not yet quitted the harbour of Nova-Scotia; or they waited on the
coast of Newfoundland for such thick fogs as might screen them from the notice of the English
cruisers, in sailing up the gulf; lastly, they penetrated through the straits of Belleisle,
a dangerous passage, which, however, led them directly into the river St. Laurence, at a considerable
distance above the station of the British squadron. Though the French navy was by this time
so reduced, that it could neither face the English at sea nor furnish proper convoys for commerce,
her ministry nevertheless attempted to alarm the subjects of Great Britain with the project
of an invasion. Flat-bottomed boats were built, transports collected, large ships of the line
equipped, and troops ordered to assemble on the coast for embarkation; but this was no more
than a feint to arouse the apprehension of the English, disconcert the administration, prejudice
the national credit, and deter the government from sending forces to keep alive the war in
Germany. A much more effectual method they took to distress the trade of England, by laying
up their useless ships of war, and encouraging the equipment of stout privateers, which did
considerable damage to the commerce of Great Britain and Ireland, by cruising in the seas of
Europe and America. Some of them lay close in the harbours of the channel, fronting the coast
of England, and darted out occasionally on the trading ships of this nation, as they received
intelligence from boats employed for that purpose. Some chose their station in the North sea,
where a great number of captures were made upon the coast of Scotland; others cruised in the
chops of the channel, and even to the westward of Ireland; but the far greater number scoured
the seas in the neighbourhood of the Leeward Islands in the West Indies, where they took a
prodigious number of British ships, sailing to and from the sugar colonies, and conveyed them
to their own settlements in Martinique, Guadeloupe, or St. Domingo.

CONDUCT OF THE KING OF DENMARK.

With respect to the war that raged in Germany, the king of Denmark wisely pursued that course,
which happily preserved him from being involved in those troubles by which great part of Europe
was agitated, and terminated in that point of national advantage which a king ought ever to
have in view for the benefit of his people. By observing a scrupulous neutrality, he enhanced
his importance among his neighbours: he saw himself courted by all the belligerent powers:
he saved the blood and treasure of his subjects: he received large subsidies, in consideration
of his forbearance; and enjoyed, unmolested, a much more considerable share of commerce than
he could expect to carry on, even in times of universal tranquillity. He could not perceive
that the protestant religion had anything to apprehend from the confederacy which was formed
against the Prussian monarch; nor was he misled into all the expense, the perils, and disquiets
of a sanguinary war, by that ignis fatuus which hath seduced and impoverished other opulent
nations, under the specious title of the balance of power in Germany. Howsoever he might be
swayed by private inclination, he did not think it was a point of consequence to his kingdom,
whether Pomeranians possessed by Sweden or Prussia; whether the French army was driven back
beyond the Rhine, or penetrated once more into the electorate of Hanover: whether the empress-queen
was stripped of her remaining possessions in Silesia, or the king of Prussia circumscribed
within the original bounds of his dominion. He took it for granted that France, for her own
sake, would prevent the ruin of that enterprising monarch; and that the house of Austria would
not be so impolitic and blind to its own interest, as to permit the empress of Russia to make
and retain conquests in the empire; but even if these powers should be weak enough to sacrifice
all the maxims of sound policy to caprice or resentment, he did not think himself so deeply
concerned in the event, as for the distant, prospect of what might possibly happen, to plunge
headlong into a war that must be attended with certain and immediate disadvantages. True it
is, he had no hereditary electorate in Germany that was threatened with invasion; nor, if he
had, is it to be supposed that a prince of his sagacity and patriotism would have impoverished
his kingdom of Denmark, for the precarious defence of a distant territory. It was reserved
for another nation to adopt the pernicious absurdity of wasting its blood and treasure, exhausting
its revenues, loading its own back with the most grievous impositions, incurring an enormous
debt, big with bankruptcy and ruin; in a word, of expending above an hundred and fifty millions
sterling in fruitless efforts to defend a distant country, the entire property of which was
never valued at one twentieth part of that sum; a country with which it had no natural connexion,
but a common alliance arising from accident. The king of Denmark, though himself a prince of
the empire, and possessed of dominions in Germany almost contiguous to the scenes of the present
war, did not yet think himself so nearly concerned in the issue, as to declare himself either
principal or auxiliary in the quarrel; yet he took care to maintain his forces by sea and land
upon a respectable footing; and by this conduct, he not only provided for the security of his
own country, but overawed the belligerent powers, who considered him as a prince capable of
making either scale preponderate, just as he might choose to trim the balance. Thus he preserved
his wealth, commerce, and consequence undiminished; and instead of being harassed as a party,
was honoured as an umpire.

The United Provinces, though as adverse as his Danish majesty to any participation in the war,
did not, however, so scrupulously observe the neutrality they professed; at least, the traders
of that republic, either from an inordinate thirst of lucre, or a secret bias in favour of
the enemies of Great Britain, assisted the French commerce with all the appearance of the most
flagrant partiality. We have, in the beginning of this year's transactions, observed, that
a great number of their ships were taken by the English cruisers, and condemned as legal prizes
for having French property on board: that the Dutch merchants, exasperated by their losses,
exclaimed against the English as pirates and robbers, petitioned the states for redress in
very high terms, and even loudly clamoured for a war against Great Britain. The charge of violence
and injustice, which they brought against the English for taking and confiscating the ships
that transported to Europe the produce of the French islands in the West Indies, they founded
on the tenth article of the treaty of commerce between Great Britain and the states-general
of the United Provinces, concluded in the year one thousand six hundred and sixty-eight, stipulating,
"That whatever shall be found on board the ships of the subjects of the United Provinces, though
the lading, or part thereof, may belong to the enemies of Great Britain, shall be free and
unmolested, except these be prohibited goods, which are to be served in the manner described
by the foregoing articles." From this article the Dutch merchants argued, that, if there be
no prohibited goods on board, the English had no right to stop or molest any of their ships,
or make the least inquiry to whom the merchandise belonged, whence it was brought, or whither
bound. This plea the English casuists would by no means admit, for the following reasons,--a
general and perpetual license to carry on the whole trade of their enemy would be such a glaring
absurdity, as no convention could authorize: common sense has dictated, and Grotius declared,
that no man can be supposed to have consented to an absurdity; therefore, the interpretation
given by the Dutch to this article, could not be supposed to be its true and genuine meaning;
which, indeed, relates to nothing more than the common course of trade, as it was usually carried
on in time of peace. But even should this interpretation be accepted, the article, and the
treaty itself, would be superseded and annulled by a subsequent treaty, concluded between the
two nations in the year one thousand six hundred and seventy-five, and often confirmed since
that period, stipulating, in a secret article, that neither of the contracting parties should
give, nor consent, that any of their subjects and inhabitants should give any aid, favour,
or counsel, directly or indirectly, by land or sea, or on the fresh waters; nor should furnish,
or permit the subjects or inhabitants of their respective territories to furnish, any ships,
soldiers, seamen, victuals, monies, instruments of war, gunpowder, or any other necessaries
for making war, to the enemies of either party, of any rank or condition soever. Now, the Dutch
have infringed this article in many instances during the present war, both in Europe and America;
and, as they have so openly contravened one treaty, the English are not obliged to observe
another. They, moreover, forfeited all right to the observance of the treaty in question, by
refusing the succours with which they were bound, in the most solemn manner, to furnish the
king of Great Britain, in case any of his territories in Europe should be attacked: for nothing
could be more weak and frivolous than the allegation upon which this refusal was founded, namely,
that the hostilities in Europe were commenced by the English, when they seized and confiscated
the vessels of France; and they, being the aggressors, had no right to insist upon the succours
stipulated in a treaty which was purely defensive. If this argument has any weight, the treaty
itself can have no signification. The French, as in the present case, will always commence
the war in America; and when their ships, containing reinforcements and stores for the maintenance
of that war, shall be taken on the European seas, perhaps in consequence of their being exposed
for that purpose, they will exclaim that the English were the aggressors in Europe, consequently
deprived of all benefit accruing from the defensive treaty subsisting between them and the
states-general of the United Provinces. It being impossible for the English to terminate the
war, while their enemies derive the sinews of it from their commerce carried on in neutral
bottoms, they are obliged to suppress such collusions, by that necessity which Grotius himself
hath allowed to be a sufficient excuse for deviating from the letter of any treaty whatsoever.
In time of peace no Dutch ships were permitted to carry the produce of any French sugar island,
or even to trade in any of the French ports in America or the West Indies; consequently, the
treaty which they quote can never justify them in carrying on a commerce, which, as it did
not exist, and was not foreseen, could not possibly be guarded against when that convention
was ratified. Grotius, whose authority is held in such veneration among the Dutch, has determined
that every nation has a right to seize and confiscate the goods of any neutral power, which
shall attempt to carry them into any place which is blocked up by that nation, either by land
or sea. The French islands in the West Indies were so blocked up by the English cruisers, that
they could receive no relief from their own government, consequently no neutral power could
attempt to supply them without falling under this predicament.*

     * In the reign of king William, when the English and Dutch
     were engaged in a war against France, the northern powers of
     Sweden and Denmark attempted to carry on the French
     commerce, under the shade of neutrality; but the Dutch and
     English joined in seizing the vessels that were thus
     employed. Complaints of these captures were made at London
     and the Hague, and the complainants were given to understand
     at both places, that they should not be allowed to carry on
     any trade with France, but what was usual in time of peace.
     In consequence of this declaration, Mr. Groning formed the
     design of writing a treatise on the freedom of navigation,
     and communicated the plan of his work to the celebrated
     Puffendorff, who signified his sentiments in a letter, which
     is preserved by the learned Barbeyrac in his notes upon
     that author's treatise on the Law of Nature and Nations.

It was for these reasons that the king of England declared, by the mouth of Mr. Yorke, his
minister plenipotentiary at the Hague, in a conference held in the mouth of August with the
deputies of the states-general, that though he was ready to concur in every measure that should
be proposed for giving satisfaction to their high mightinesses, with whom he had always studied
to live in the most perfect union, he was nevertheless determined not to suffer the trade of
the French colonies in America to be carried on by the subjects of other powers, under the
specious pretext of neutrality: nor to permit words to be interpreted as a license to drive
a trade with his enemies, which, though not particularly specified in the articles of contraband,
was nevertheless rendered such in all respects, and in every sense, by the nature of the circumstances.
It is not at all more surprising that the Dutch merchants should complain, than that the English
government should persist in confiscating the ships that were found to contain the merchandise
of their enemies. The individual traders of every mercantile nation will run considerable risks
in extending their particular commerce, even when they know it must be detrimental to the general
interest of their country. In the war maintained by the confederates against Louis XIV. of
France, the merchant ships of the Dutch carried on an uninterrupted trade to the French ports;
and, notwithstanding the repeated solicitations of England, the states-general could never
be prevailed upon to prohibit this commerce, which undoubtedly enabled France to protract the
war. The truth is, they gave the British ministry to understand, that unless they connived
at this traffic, their subjects could not possibly defray their proportion of the expense at
which the war was maintained. It is well known through all Europe, that the subjects of the
United Provinces reaped considerable advantage, not only from this branch of illicit trade,
but also by providing for both armies in Flanders, and by the practice of stock-jobbing in
England; consequently, it was not the interest, either of the states-general, or the English
general, between whom there was a very good understanding, to bring that war to a speedy conclusion:
nor indeed ought we to fix the imputation of partiality upon a whole nation, for the private
conduct of individuals, influenced by motives of self-interest, which co-operate with the same
energy in Holland, and among the subjects of Great Britain. In the course of the former war,
such a scandalous appetite for gain prevailed in different parts of the British dominions,
that the French islands were actually supplied with provisions, slaves, and lumber, from Ireland
and the British colonies in North America; and Martinique, in particular, must have surrendered
to the commander of the English squadron stationed in those seas, had it not been thus supported
by English subjects. Certain it is, the Dutch had some reason to complain that they were decoyed
into this species of traffic by the article of a treaty, which, in their opinion, admitted
of no limitation; and that the government of Great Britain, without any previous warning, or
explaining its sentiments on this subject, swept the sea at once of all their vessels employed
in this commerce, and condemned them, without mitigation, to the entire ruin of many thousand
families. Considering the intimate connexion of mutual interest subsisting between Great Britain
and the states of the United Provinces, they seem to have had some right to an intimation of
this nature, which, in all probability, would have induced them to resign all prospect of advantage
from the prosecution of such traffic.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

CONFERENCES AT THE HAGUE.

Besides the universal clamour excited in Holland, and the famous memorial presented to the
states-general, which we have already mentioned in another place, a deputation of merchants
waited four times successively on the princess regent to explain their grievances, and demand
her concurrence in augmenting the navy for the preservation of their commerce. She promised
to interpose her best offices with the court of Great Britain; and these co-operating with
representations made by the states-general, the English minister was empowered to open conferences
at the Hague, in order to bring all matters in dispute to an amicable accommodation. These
endeavours, however, proved ineffectual. The British cruisers continued to take, and the British
courts to condemn, all Dutch vessels containing the produce of the French sugar islands. The
merchants of Holland and Zealand renewed their complaints with redoubled clamour, and all the
trading part of the nation, reinforced by the whole party that opposed the house of Orange,
cried aloud for an immediate augmentation of the marine, and reprisals upon the pirates of
England. The princess, in order to avoid extremities, was obliged not only to employ all her
personal influence with the states-general, but also to play off one faction against another,
in the way of remonstrance and exclamation As far back as the month of June, she presented
a memorial to the states-general, reminding them, that in the beginning of the war between
France and England, she had advised an augmentation should be made in their land-forces, to
strengthen the garrisons of the frontier towns, and cover the territories of the republic from
invasion. She gave them to understand, that the provinces of Gueldres and Overyssel, intimidated
by the proximity of two formidable armies, had resolved to demand that the augmentation of
their land-forces should be taken into consideration by the other provinces; and requested
her to reinforce their solicitations that this measure might immediately take place. This request,
she said, she the more readily granted, as she could not but be sensible of the imminent danger
that threatened the republic, especially since the Hanoverian army had passed the Rhine; and
as it behoved the state to put itself in a condition to hinder either army from retiring into
the territories of the republic, if it should be defeated; for in that case the conqueror,
being authorized to pursue his enemy wherever he can find him, would bring the war into the
heart of their country. This representation had no other effect than that of suspending the
measure which each party proposed. The princess, in her answer to the fourth deputation of
the merchants, declared that she beheld the present state of their trade with the most anxious
concern; that its want of protection was not her fault, but that of the towns of Dort, Haerlem,
Amsterdam, Torgau, Rotterdam, and the Brille, to whose conduct it was owing, that the forces
of the state, by sea and land, were not now on a better footing. The deputies were afterwards
referred to her minister, M. de la Larrey, to whom they represented, that the augmentation
of the land-forces, and the equipment of a fleet, were matters as distinct from each other
as light from darkness; that there was no pressing motive for an augmentation of the army,
whereas, innumerable reasons rendered the equipment of a fleet a matter of the most urgent
necessity. In a few days after this representation was made, the princess, in an assembly of
the states-general, requested their high mightinesses, that, seeing their earnest and repeated
efforts to induce the provinces of Holland, Zealand, Friesland, and West Friesland, to acquiesce
in the proposed augmentation of forces by sea and land, had not hitherto met with success,
they would now consider and deliberate upon some expedient for terminating this affair, and
the sooner the better, in order on one hand to satisfy the strong and well-grounded instances
made by the provinces of Gueldres, Utrecht, Overyssel, and Groningen; and, on the other, to
comply with the ardent and just desires expressed by the commercial inhabitants of the country.
She told them, that the deputation which waited on her consisted of forty merchants, a number
that merited attention, no less than the speech they pronounced, of which a great number of
printed copies were distributed through all parts of the country. Without making any particular
remarks on the harangue, she only observed, that the drift of it did not tend to facilitate
the negotiation begun with Great Britain, nor to induce the nation to prefer a convention to
a rupture with that crown. From this circumstance she inferred, it was more than time to finish
the deliberations on the proposal for augmenting the forces both by sea and land; a measure,
without which, she was convinced in her conscience, the state was, and would always remain,
exposed to all sorts of misfortune and danger both now and hereafter.

In consequence of this interposition, the states-general that same day sent a letter to the
states of Holland and West Friesland, communicating the sentiments of the princess-regent,
and insisting upon the necessity of complying with her proposal of the double augmentation.
They observed, that an augmentation of the land-forces, for the defence of the frontiers, was
unavoidable, as well as an equipment by sea for the security of commerce: that the states of
the provinces of Gueldres, Utrecht, Overyssel, and Groningen, joined with them in the same
opinion; and accordingly had insisted, by divers letters and propositions, on those two points
so essential to the public interest. They represented the danger of delay, and the fatal effects
of discord; they proposed, that by a reciprocal indulgence one party should comply with the
sentiments of the other, in order to avoid a schism and dangerous division among the confederates,
the consequences of which would be very deplorable; while the republic, in the meantime, would
remain in a defenceless condition, both by sea and land, and depend upon the arbitrary power
of its neighbours. They conjured them, therefore, as they valued the safety of their country,
and all that was dear to them; as they regarded the protection of the good inhabitants, the
concord and harmony which at all times but especially at the present critical juncture, was
of the last necessity, that they would seriously reflect upon the exhortations of her royal
highness, as well as on the repeated instances of the majority of the confederates, and take
a wise and salutary resolution with regard to the proposed augmentation of the land-forces,
so that this addition, together with an equipment at sea, might, the sooner the better, be
unanimously brought to a conclusion. It was undoubtedly the duty of all who wished well to
their country, to moderate the heat and precipitation of those, who, provoked by their losses,
and stimulated by resentment, endeavoured at this period to involve their nation in a war with
Great Britain. Had matters been pushed to this extremity, in a few months the republic would,
in all probability, have been brought to the brink of ruin. The Dutch were distracted by internal
divisions; they were altogether unprovided for hostilities by sea; the ocean was covered with
their trading vessels; and the naval armaments of Great Britain were so numerous and powerful,
as to render all resistance on that element equally vain and pernicious. The English could
not only have scoured the seas, and made prize of their shipping, but were also in a condition
to reduce or demolish all their towns in Zealand, where they would hardly have met with any
opposition.

CHAPTER XVI.

     Domestic Occurrences in Great Britain..... Trials of Dr.
     Hensey and Shebbeare..... Institution of the Magdalen
     Asylum..... Society for the encouragement of Arts.....
     Session opened..... New Treaty with the King of Prussia.....
     Supplies granted..... The King's Message to the Commons.....
     Bill relating to ihe Distillery, and the Exportation of
     Corn..... Petition from the Justices of Norfolk---Bill for
     the Importation of salted Beef from Treland continued.....
     Regulations with respect to Privateers..... New Militia
     Laws..... Act for the Relief of Debtors revived..... Bills
     for the Importation of Irish Beef and Tallow..... Act
     relative to Milford-Haven..... Bill relative to the Duty on
     Pensions..... Act relative to the Duty on Plate..... Cambric
     Act..... Unsuccessful Bills..... Case of the Insolvent
     Debtors..... Case of Cant. Walker..... Remarks on the
     Bankrupt Laws..... Inquiry into the State of the Poor.....
     Regulations of Weights and Measures..... Resolutions
     concerning the Foundling   Hospital..... Messages from  the
     King to the   Parliament..... Session closed.....
     Preparations for War..... Death of the Princess of Orange
     and Princess Elizabeth Caroline..... Examples made of
     Pirates..... Accounts of some remarkable Murders..... Murder
     of Daniel Clarke..... Majority of the Prince of Wales.....
     Resolutions concerning a new Bridge at Blackfriars..... Pire
     in Cornhill..... Method contrived to find out the
     Longitude..... Installation at Oxford..... Deplorable
     Incident at Sea..... Captures made by separate Cruisers.....
     Captain Hood takes the Bellona..... and Captain Barrington
     the  Count do St. Florentin..... Captain Falkner takes a
     French East Indiaman..... Prize taken in the West
     Indies..... Engagement between the Hercules and the
     Florissant..... Havre-de-Grace   bombarded by Admiral
     Rodney..... Admiral Boscawen defeats M. de la Clue.....
     Preparations made by the French for invading England.....
     Account of Thurot..... French Fleet sails from  Brest.....
     Admiral Hawke defeats M. de Conflans..... Proceedings of the
     Irish Parliament..... Loyalty of the Irish-Catholics.....
     Dangerous Insurrection in Dublin..... Alarm of a Descent in
     Scotland

While the operations of the war were prosecuted through the four quarters of the globe, the
island of Great Britain, which may be termed the centre that gave motion to this vast machine,
enjoyed all the tranquillity of the most profound peace, and saw nothing of war but the preparations
and trophies, which served only to animate the nation to a desire of further conquest; for
the dejection occasioned by the misfortune at St. Cas soon vanished before the prospect of
victory and success. Considering the agitation naturally produced among the common people,
by the practice of pressing men into the service of the navy, which, in the beginning of the
year, had been carried on with unusual violence, the levy of so many new corps of soldiers,
and the endeavours used in forming the national militia, very few disturbances happened to
interrupt the internal repose of the nation. From private acts of malice, fraud, violence,
and rapine, no community whatsoever is exempted. In the month of April, the temporary wooden
bridge over the Thames, built for the conveniency of carriages and passengers, while the workmen
should be employed in widening and repairing London bridge, was maliciously set on fire in
the night, and continued burning till noon next day, when the ruins of it fell into the river.
The destruction of this conveniency proved very detrimental to the commerce of the city, notwithstanding
the vigilancy and discretion of the magistrates, in applying remedies for this misfortune.
A promise of the king's pardon was offered in a public advertisement, by the secretary of state,
and a reward of two hundred pounds by the city of London, to any person who should discover
the perpetrator of such wicked outrage; but nevertheless he escaped detection. No individual,
nor any society of men, could have the least interest in the execution of such a scheme, except
the body of London watermen; but as no discovery was made to the prejudice of any person belonging
to that society, the deed was imputed to the malice of some secret enemy to the public. Even
after a new temporary bridge was erected, another attempt was made (in all probability by the
same incendiary) to reduce the whole to ashes, but happily miscarried, and a guard was appointed
to prevent any such atrocious efforts in the sequel. Dangerous tumults were raised in and about
Manchester, by a prodigious number of manufacturers who had left off working, and entered into
a combination to raise, by force, the price of their labour. They had formed a regular plan,
and collected large sums for the maintenance of the poorer sort, while they refused to work
for their families. They insulted and abused all those who would not join in this defection,
dispersed incendiary letters; and denounced terrible threats against all such as should presume
to oppose their proceedings. But these menaces had no effect upon the magistrates and justices,
who did their duty with such discretion and courage, that the ringleaders being singled out
and punished by law, the rest were soon reduced to order.

TRIALS OF DRS. HENSEY AND SHEBBEARE

In the month of June, Florence Hensey, an obscure physician, and native of Ireland, who had
been apprehended for treasonable practices, was tried in the court of king's-bench, on an indictment
for high treason. In the course of the trial it appeared that he had been employed as a spy
for the French ministry; to which, in consideration of a paltry pension, he sent intelligence
of every material occurrence in Great Britain. The correspondence was managed by his brother,
a Jesuit, who acted as chaplain and secretary to the Spanish ambassador at the Hague. The British
resident at that court having learned from the Spanish minister some secrets relating to England,
even before they were communicated to him from the English ministry, was induced to set on
foot an inquiry touching the source of this information, and soon received an assurance, that
the secretary of the Spanish ambassador had a brother, a physician in London. The suspicion
naturally arising from this circumstance being imparted to the ministry of England, Hensey
was narrowly watched, and twenty-nine of his letters were intercepted. From the contents of
these he was convicted of having given the French court the first notice of the expedition
to North America, the capture of the two ships, the Alcide and Lys, the sailing and destination
of every squadron and armament, and the difficulties that occurred in raising money for the
service of the public. He had even informed them, that the secret expedition of the foregoing
year was intended against Eochefort, and advised a descent upon Great Britain, at a certain
time and place, as the most effectual method of distressing the government, and affecting the
public credit. After a long trial he was found guilty of treason, and received the sentence
of death usually pronounced on such occasions; but whether he earned forgiveness by some material
discovery, or the minister found him so insensible and insignificant that he was ashamed to
take his life, he escaped execution, and was pardoned, on condition of going into perpetual
exile. The severity of the government was much about the same period exercised on Dr. Shebbeare,
a public writer, who, in a series of printed letters to the people of England, had animadverted
on the conduct of the ministry in the most acrimonious terms, stigmatized some great names
with all the virulence of censure, and even assaulted the throne itself with oblique insinuation
and ironical satire. The ministry, incensed at the boldness, and still more enraged at the
success of this author, whose writings were bought with avidity by the public, determined to
punish him severely for his arrogance and abuse, and he was apprehended by a warrant from the
secretary's office. His sixth letter to the people of England was pitched upon as the foundation
of a prosecution. After a short trial in the court of king's bench, he was found guilty of
having written the sixth letter to the people of England, adjudged a libellous pamphlet, sentenced
to stand in the pillory, to pay a small fine, to be imprisoned three years, and give security
for his future good behaviour; so that, in effect, this good man suffered more for having given
vent to the unguarded effusions of mistaken zeal, couched in the language of passion and scurrility,
than was inflicted upon Hensey, a convicted traitor, who had acted as spy for France, and betrayed
his own country for hire.

INSTITUTION OF THE MAGDALEN AND OTHER ASYLUMS.

Amidst a variety of crimes and disorders, arising from impetuosity of temper, unreined passions,
luxury, extravagance, and an almost total want of police and subordination, the virtues of
benevolence are always springing up to an extraordinary growth in the British soil; and here
charities are often established by the humanity of individuals, which in any other country
would be honoured as national institutions: witness the great number of hospitals and infirmaries
in London and Westminster, erected and maintained by voluntary contributions, or raised by
the princely donations of private founders. In the course of this year the public began to
enjoy the benefit of several admirable institutions. Mr. Henry Baine, a private gentleman of
Middlesex, had, in his lifetime, built and endowed an hospital for the maintenance of forty
poor maidens. By his will he bequeathed a certain sum of money to accumulate at interest, under
the management of trustees, until the yearly produce should amount to two hundred and ten pounds,
to be given in marriage portions to two of the maidens educated in his hospital, at the age
of twenty-two, who should be the best recommended for piety and industry by the masters or
mistresses whom they had served. In the month of March, the sum destined for this laudable
purpose was completed: when the trustees, by public advertisement, summoned the maidens educated
in the hospital to appear on a certain day, with proper certificates of their behaviour and
circumstances, that six of the most deserving might be selected to draw lots for the prize
of one hundred pounds, to be paid as her marriage portion, provided she married a man of an
unblemished character, a member of the church of England, residing within certain specified
parishes, and approved by the trustees. Accordingly, on the first of May the candidates appeared,
and the prize being gained by one young woman, in presence of a numerous assembly of all ranks,
attracted by curiosity, the other five maidens, with a sixth, added in lieu of her who had
been successsful, were marked for a second chance on the same day of the following year, when
a second prize of the same value would be presented: thus a new candidate will be added every
year, that every maiden who has been educated in this hospital, and preserved her character
without reproach, may have a chance for the noble donation, which is also accompanied with
the sum of five pounds to defray the expense of the wedding entertainment. One scarce knows
whether most to admire the plan, or commend the humanity of this excellent institution.--Of
equal and perhaps superior merit was another charitable establishment, which also took effect
about this period. A small number of humane individuals, chiefly citizens of London, deeply
affected with the situation of common prostitutes, who are certainly the most forlorn of all
human creatures, formed a generous resolution in their favour, such as even the best men of
the kingdom had never before the courage to avow. They considered that many of these unhappy
creatures, so wretched in themselves, and so productive of mischief to society, had been seduced
to vice in their tender years by the perfidious artifice of the other sex, or the violence
of unruly passion, before they had acquired experience to guard against the one, or foresight
to perceive the fatal consequences of the other; that the jewel, reputation, being thus irretrievably
lost, perhaps in one unguarded moment, they were covered with shame and disgrace, abandoned
by their families, excluded from all pity, regard, and assistance; that, stung by self-conviction,
insulted with reproach, denied the privilege of penitence and contrition, cut off from all
hope, impelled by indigence, and maddened by despair, they had plunged into a life of infamy,
in which they were exposed to deplorable vicissitudes of misery, and the most excruciating
pangs of reflection that any human being could sustain; that whatever remorse they might feel,
howsoever they might detest their own vice, or long for an opportunity of amendment, they were
entirely destitute of all means of reformation. They were not only deprived of all possibility
of profiting by those precious moments of repentance, and becoming again useful members of
society; but, in order to earn a miserable subsistence, were obliged to persevere in the paths
of prostitution, and act as the instruments of heaven's vengeance in propagating distemper
and profligacy, in ruining the bodies and debauching the minds of their fellow-creatures. Moved
to sympathy and compassion by these considerations, this virtuous band of associates determined
to provide a comfortable asylum for female penitents, to which they might fly for shelter from
the receptacles of vice, the miseries of life, and the scorn of mankind; where they might indulge
the salutary sentiments of remorse, make their peace with heaven, accustom themselves to industry
and temperance, and be profitably reunited to society, from which they had been so unhappily
dissevered. The plan of this excellent institution being formed, was put in execution by means
of voluntary subscription, and the house opened in Goodman 's-fields, under the name of the
Magdalen-hospital, in the month of August, when fifty petitions were presented by penitent
prostitutes, soliciting admittance. Another asylum was also opened by the hand of private charity,
on the Surrey-side of Westminster-bridge, for the reception and education of female orphans,
and children abandoned by their parents.

SOCIETY FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF ARTS.

Nor was encouragement refused to those who distinguished themselves by extraordinary talents
in any branch of the liberal and useful arts and sciences, though no Maecenas appeared among
the ministers, and not the least ray of patronage glimmered from the throne. The protection,
countenance, and gratification secured in other countries by the institution of academies,
and the liberalities of princes, the ingenious in England derived from the generosity of a
public, endued with taste and sensibility, eager for improvement, and proud of patronising
extraordinary merit. Several years had already elapsed since a society of private persons was
instituted at London, for the encouragement of arts, manufactures, and commerce. It consisted
of a president, vice-president, secretary, register, collector, and other officers, elected
from a very considerable number of members, who pay a certain yearly contribution for the purposes
of the institution. In the course of every year they held eight general meetings in a large
assembly-room, built and furnished at the common expense; besides the ordinary meetings of
the society, held every week, from the second Wednesday in November to the last Wednesday in
May; and in the intermediate time, on the first and third Wednesday of every month. At these
ordinary meetings, provided the number then present exceeded ten, the members had a right to
proceed on business, and power to appoint such committees as they should think necessary. The
money contributed by this association, after the necessary expense of the society had been
deducted, was expended in premiums for planting and husbandry; for discoveries and improvements
in chemistry, dying, and mineralogy; for promoting the ingenious arts of drawing, engraving,
casting, painting, statuary, and sculpture; for the improvement of manufactures and machines,
in the various articles of hats, crapes, druggets, mills, marbled-paper, ship-blocks, spinning-wheels,
toys, yarn, knitting, and weaving. They likewise allotted sums for the advantage of the British
colonies in America, and bestowed premiums on those settlers who should excel in curing cochineal,
planting logwood-trees, cultivating olive-trees, producing myrtle-wax, making potash, preserving
raisins, curing saffiour, making silk and wines, importing sturgeon, preparing isinglass, planting
hemp and cinnamon, extracting opium and the gum of the persimon-tree, collecting stones of
the mango, which should be found to vegetate in the West Indies; raising silk-grass, and laying
out provincial gardens. They moreover allowed a gold medal in honour of him who should compose
the best treatise on the arts of peace, containing an historical account of the progressive
improvements of agriculture, manufactures, and commerce in the kingdom of England, with the
effects of those improvements on the morals and manners of the people, and pointing out the
most proper means for their future advancement. In a word, the society is so numerous, the
contributions so considerable, the plan so judiciously laid, and executed with such discretion
and spirit, as to promise much more effectual and extensive advantage to the public than ever
accrued from all the boasted academies of Christendom. The artists of London had long maintained
a private academy for improvement in the art of drawing from living figures; but in order to
extend this advantage, which was not attained without difficulty and expense, the duke of Richmond,
a young nobleman of the most amiable character, provided a large apartment at Whitehall, for
the use of those who studied the arts of painting, sculpture, and engraving; and furnished
it with a collection of original plaster casts from the best antique statues and busts at Rome
and Florence. Here any learner had liberty to draw, or make models, under the eye and instructions
of two eminent artists and twice a year the munificent founder bestowed premiums of silver
medals on the four pupils who excelled the rest in drawing from a certain figure, and making
the best model of it in basso-relievo. [479] [See note 3 R, at the end of this Vol.]

On the twenty-third day of November both houses of parliament met at Westminster, when his
majesty being indisposed, the session was opened by commission, and the lord-keeper harangued
them to this effect. He told them, his majesty had directed the lords of the commission to
assure his parliament that he always received the highest satisfaction in being able to lay
before them any event that might promote the honour and interests of his kingdoms; that in
consequence of their advice, and enabled by the assistance which they unanimously gave, his
majesty had exerted his endeavours to carry on the war in the most vigorous manner, in order
to attain that desirable end, always to be wished, a safe and honourable peace:* that it had
pleased the Divine Providence to bless his measures and arms with success in several parts,
and to make the enemies of the nation feel, that the strength of Great Britain is not to be
provoked with impunity: that the conquest of the strong fortress of Louisbourg, with the islands
of Cape-Breton and St. John; the demolition of Frontenac, of the highest importance to his
operations in America, and the reduction of Senegal, could not fail to bring great distress
on the French commerce and colonies, and, in proportion, to procure great advantages to those
of Great Britain.

     * In the month of August, the king, in quality of elector of
     Hanover, having occasion for two hundred thousand pounds, a
     loan by subscription for that sum was opened at the bank,
     and filled immediately by seven or eight money-dealers of
     London.

He observed, that France had also been made sensible, that whilst her forces are sent forth
to invade and ravage the dominions of her neighbours, her own coasts are not inaccessible to
his majesty's fleets and armies--a truth which she had experienced in the demolition of the
works at Cherbourg, erected at a great expense, with a particular view to annoy England, as
well as in the loss of a great number of ships and vessels; but no treatment, however injurious
to his majesty, could tempt him to make retaliation on the innocent subjects of that crown.
He told them, that in Germany his majesty's good brother the king of Prussia, and prince Ferdinand
of Brunswick, had found full employment for the enemies of France and her confederates, from
which the English operations, both by sea and in America, had derived the most evident advantage:
their successes owing, under God, to their able conduct, and the bravery of his majesty's troops,
and those of his allies, having been signal and glorious. The king, moreover, commanded them
to declare, that the common cause of liberty and independency was still making noble and glorious
efforts against the unnatural union formed to oppress it: that the commerce of his subjects,
the source of national riches, had, by the vigilant protection received from his majesty's
fleet, flourished in a manner not to be paralleled during such troubles. In this state of things,
he said, the king in his wisdom thought it unnecessary to use many words to persuade them to
bear up against all difficulties, effectually to stand by and defend his majesty, vigorously
to support the king of Prussia and the rest of his majesty's allies, and to exert themselves
to reduce their enemies to equitable terms of accommodation. He observed to the house of commons,
that the uncommon extent of this war, in different parts, occasioned it to be uncommonly expensive:
that the king had ordered them to declare to the commons, that he sincerely lamented, and deeply
felt, for the burdens of his people: that the several estimates were ordered to be laid before
them: and that he desired only such supplies as should be requisite to push the war with advantage,
and be adequate to the necessary services. In the last place, he assured them the king took
so much satisfaction in that good harmony which subsisted among his faithful subjects, that
it was more proper for him now to thank them for it, than to repeat his exhortation to it:
that this union, necessary at all times, was more especially so in such critical conjunctures;
and his majesty doubted not but the good effects the nation had found from it would be the
strongest motives to them to pursue it.--The reader will, no doubt, be surprised to find this
harangue abound with harshness of period and inelegancy of expression; he will wonder that,
in particularizing the successes of the year in America, no mention is made of the reduction
of fort Du Quesne on the river Ohio; a place of great importance, both from its strength and
situation, the erection of which had been one great motive to the war between the two nations;
but he will be still more surprised to hear it declared from the throne, that the operations,
both by sea and in America, had derived the most evident advantage from the war in Germany.
It is very remarkable that the British ministry should declare that the war in Germany was
favourable to the English operations by sea and in America, and almost in the same breath accuse
the French king of having fomented that war. Let us suppose that France had no war to maintain
in Europe; and ask in what manner she, in that case, would have opposed the progress of the
British arms by sea and in America? Her navy was reduced to such a condition that it durst
not quit her harbours; her merchant ships were all taken, her mariners confined in England,
and the sea was covered with British cruisers: in these circumstances, what expedients could
she have contrived for sending supplies and reinforcements to America, or for opposing the
naval armaments of Great Britain in any other part of the world?--None. Without ships and mariners,
her troops, ammunition, and stores were, in this respect, as useless as money to a man shipwrecked
on a desolate island. But granting that the war in Germany had, in some measure, diverted the
attention of the French ministry from the prosecution of their operations in America, (and
this is granting more than ought to be allowed,) the question is not, Whether the hostilities
upon the continent of Europe prevented France from sending a greater number of troops to Canada;
but whether the war in Germany was either necessary or expedient for distressing the French
more effectually in other parts of the world? Surely every intelligent man of candour must
answer in the negative. The expense incurred by England for subsidies and armies in the empire
exceeded three millions sterling annually; and this enormous expense, without being able to
protect Hanover, only served to keep the war alive in different parts of Germany. Had one half
of this sum been employed in augmenting and extending the naval armaments of Great Britain,
and in reinforcing her troops in America and the West Indies, France would have been, at this
day, deprived of all her sugar colonies, as well as of her settlements on the continent of
America; and being absolutely cut off from these sources of wealth, would have found it impracticable
either to gratify her subsidiaries, or to maintain such formidable armies to annoy her neighbours.
These are truths, which will appear to the conviction of the public, when the illusive spells
of unsubstantial victory are dissolved, and time shall have dispersed the thick mists of prejudice
which now seem to darken and perplex the understanding of the people.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

NEW TREATY WITH THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

The conduct of the administration was so agreeable to both houses of parliament, that in their
address to the throne they expressed their unshaken zeal and loyalty to his majesty's person,
congratulated him on the success of his arms, and promised to support his measures and allies
with steadiness and alacrity. *

     * That the charge of disaffection to the king's person,
     which was so loudly trumpeted by former ministers and their
     adherents against those who had honesty and courage to
     oppose the measures of a weak and corrupt administration,
     was entirely false and without foundation, appeared at this
     juncture, when in the midst of a cruel, oppressive, and
     continental war, maintained by the blood and treasure of
     Great Britain, all opposition ceased in both houses of
     parliament. The addresses of thanks to his majesty, which
     are always dictated by the immediate servants of the crown,
     were unanimously adopted in both houses, and not only
     couched in terms of applause, but even inflated with
     expressions of rapture and admiration. They declared
     themselves sensible, that the operations of Great Britain,
     both by sea and in America, had received the most evident
     and important advantages from the maintenance of the war in
     Germany, and seemed eager to espouse any measure that might
     gratify the inclination of the sovereign.

It was probably in consequence of this assurance that a new treaty between Great Britain and
Prussia was concluded at London on the seventh day of December, importing, That as the burdensome
war in which the king of Prussia is engaged, lays him under the necessity of making fresh efforts
to defend himself against the multitude of enemies who attack his dominions, he is obliged
to take new measures with the king of England, for their reciprocal defence and safety; and
his Britannic majesty hath at the same time signified his earnest desire to strengthen the
friendship subsisting between the two courts; and, in consequence thereof, to conclude a formal
convention, for granting to his Prussian majesty speedy and powerful assistance, their majesties
have nominated and authorized their ministers to concert and settle the following articles:--All
formal treaties between the two crowns, particularly that signed at Westminster on the sixteenth
day of January in the year 1756, and the convention of the eleventh of April in the year 1758,
are confirmed by the present convention of the eleventh of April in the year 1758, in their
whole tenor, as if they were herein inserted word for word. The king of Great Britain shall
cause to be paid at London, to such person or persons as shall be authorized by the king of
Prussia for that end, the sum of four millions of rix-dollars, making six hundred and seventy
thousand pounds sterling, at one payment, immediately on the exchange of the ratification,
if the king of Prussia should so require. His Prussian majesty shall employ the said sum in
supporting and augmenting his forces, which shall act in such manner as shall be of the greatest
service to the common cause, and contribute most to the mutual defence and safety of their
said majesties. The king of Great Britain, both as king and elector, and the king of Prussia,
reciprocally bind themselves not to conclude with the powers that have taken part in the present
war, any treaty of peace, truce, or other such like convention, but by common advice and consent,
each expressly including therein the other. The ratification of the present convention shall
be exchanged within six weeks, or sooner, if possible. In effect, this treaty was no other
than a renewal of the subsidy from year to year, because it was not thought proper to stipulate
in the first subsidiary convention an annual supply of such importance until the war should
be terminated, lest the people of England should be alarmed at the prospect of such successive
burdens, and the complaisance of the commons be in some future session exhausted. On the whole,
this was perhaps the most extraordinary treaty that ever was concluded; for it contains no
specification of articles, except the payment of the subsidy; every other article was left
to the interpretation of his Prussian majesty.

{1759}

SUPPLIES GRANTED.

The parliament, having performed the ceremony of addresses to the throne, immediately proceeded
to the great work of the supply. The two committees in the house of commons were immediately
established, and continued by adjournments to the month of May, by the twenty-third day of
which all their resolutions were taken. For the maintenance of the sixty thousand men employed
in the sea-service, they granted three millions one hundred and twenty thousand pounds; for
the land-forces, one million two hundred and fifty-six thousand one hundred and thirty pounds,
fifteen shillings and two-pence; for the charge of the additional five battalions, forty thousand
eight hundred and seventy-nine pounds, thirteen shillings and nine-pence; for the pay of the
general and staff-officers, and hospitals of the land-forces, fifty-two thousand four hundred
and eighty-four pounds one shilling and eight-pence; for maintaining the garrisons in the Plantations,
Gibraltar, Nova-Scotia, Newfoundland, Providence, Cape-Breton, and Senegal, the sum of seven
hundred and forty-two thousand five hundred and thirty-one pounds, five shillings and seven-pence;
for the charge of ordnance for land-service, two hundred and twenty thousand seven hundred
and eighty-nine pounds, eleven shillings and nine-pence; for extraordinary service performed
by the same office, and not provided for by parliament in the course of the preceding year,
three hundred and twenty-three thousand nine hundred and eighty-seven pounds, thirteen shillings
and three-ponce; for the ordinary of the navy, including half-pay to sea-officers, two hundred
and thirty-eight thousand four hundred and ninety-one pounds, nine shillings and eight-pence;
towards the support of Greenwich-hospital, and for the out-pensioners of Chelsea-college, the
sum of thirty-six thousand pounds. They allotted for one year's expense, incurred by the foreign
troops in the pay of Great Britain, one million two hundred thirty-eight thousand one hundred
and seventy-seven pounds, nineteen shillings and ten-pence, over and above sixty thousand pounds
for enabling his majesty to fulfil his engagements with the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, pursuant
to the separate article of a new treaty concluded between them in the month of January of this
current year, stipulating, that this sum should be paid to his serene highness in order to
facilitate the means by which he might again fix his residence in his own dominions, and by
his presence give fresh courage to his faithful subjects. The sum of two hundred thousand pounds
was voted towards the building and repairing ships of war for the ensuing year. Fifteen thousand
pounds were allowed for improving London bridge; and forty thousand on account, for the Foundling-hospital.
For the charge of transports to be employed in the course of the year they assigned six hundred
sixty seven thousand seven hundred and twenty-one pounds nineteen shillings and seven-pence:
for maintaining the colonies of Nova-Scotia and Georgia they bestowed twenty-five thousand
two hundred and thirty-eight pounds thirteen shillings and five-pence. To replace sums taken
from the sinking fund, thirty-three thousand two hundred and fifty-two pounds eighteen shillings
and ten-pence halfpenny; for maintaining the British forts and settlements en the coast of
Africa, ten thousand pounds, and for paying off the mortgage on an estate devised for the endowment
of a professorship in the university of Cambridge, the sum of twelve hundred and eighty pounds.
For the expence of the militia they voted ninety thousand pounds: for extraordinary expenses
relating to the land-forces, incurred in the course of last year, and unprovided for by parliament,
the sum of four hundred fifty-six thousand seven hundred and eighty-five pounds ten shillings
and five-pence three farthings. For the purchase of certain lands and hereditaments, in order
to secure the king's docks at Portsmouth, Chatham, and Plymouth, they granted thirty-six thousand
nine hundred and sixty-six pounds two shillings and ten-pence. They granted twenty thousand
pounds to the East-India company, towards enabling them to defray the expense of a military
force in their settlements: and the same sum was granted for carrying on the fortification
to secure the harbour of Milford. To make good several sums issued by his majesty, for indemnifying
the inn-holders and victuallers of Hampshire for the expenses they had incurred in quartering
the Hessian auxiliaries in England; for an addition to the salaries of judges, and other less
considerable purposes, they allowed the sum of twenty-six thousand one hundred and seventy-eight
pounds sixteen shillings and six-pence.

KING'S MESSAGE TO THE COMMONS. This message being read, a motion was made, and agreed to nem.
con. that it should be referred to the committee, who forthwith formed upon it the resolution,
whereby one million was granted, to be raised by loans or exchequer bills, chargeable on the
first aids that should be given in the next session. This produced a bill enabling his majesty
to raise the sum of one million, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned, comprehending
a clause, allowing the Bank of England to advance on the credit of the loan therein mentioned
any sum not exceeding a million, notwithstanding the act of the fifth and sixth year in the
reign of William and Mary, by which the bank was established.

BILLS RELATING TO THE DISTILLERY, &c.

The bills relating solely to the supply being discussed and expedited, the house proceeded,
as usual, to an act other laws for the advantage of the community. Petitions having been presented
by the cities of Bristol and New-Sarum, alleging, that since the laws prohibiting the making
of low wines and spirits from grain, meal, and flour, had been in force, the commonalty appeared
more sober, healthy, and industrious: representing the ill consequences which they apprehended
would attend the repeal of these laws, and therefore praying their continuance. Before the
bill was formed on these resolutions, petitions arrived from Liverpool and Bath, to the same
purport as those of Bristol and Sarum: while on the other hand, a remonstrance was presented
by a great number of the malt-distillers of the city and suburbs of London, alleging, that
it having been deemed expedient to prohibit the distilling of spirits from any sort of grain,
to the twenty-fourth day of December then instant, some of the petitioners had entirely ceased
to carry on the business of distilling, while others, merely with a view to preserve their
customers, the compound distillers, and employ some of their servants, horses, and utensils,
had submitted to carry on the distillation of spirits from molasses and sugars under great
disadvantages, in full hope that the restraint would cease at the expiration of the limited
time, or at least when the necessity which occasioned that restraint should be removed; that
it was with great concern they observed a bill would be brought in for protracting the said
prohibition, at a time when the price of all manner of grain, and particularly of wheat and
barley, was considerably reduced, and, as they humbly conceived, at a reasonable medium. They
expatiated on the great loss they, as well as many traders and artificers dependent upon them,
must sustain in case the said bill should be passed into a law. They prayed the house to take
these circumstances into consideration, and either permit them to carry on the distillation
from wheat, malt, and other grain, under such restrictions as should be judged necessary; or
to grant them such other relief, in respect of their several losses and incumbrances, as to
the house shall seem reasonable and expedient. This petition, though strenuously urged by a
powerful and clamorous body without doors, did not meet great encouragement within. It was
ordered to lie upon the table, and an instruction was given to the committee, empowering them
to receive a clause or clauses to allow the transportation of certain quantities of meal, flour,
bread, and biscuit, to the islands of Guernsey and Jersey, for the sole use of the inhabitants;
and another to prohibit the making of low wines and spirits from bran. Much more attention
was paid to a petition of several farmers in the county of Norfolk, representing, that their
farms consisted chiefly of arable land, which produced much greater quantities of corn than
could be consumed within that county; that in the last harvest there was a great and plentiful
crop of all sorts of grain, the greatest part of which had by unfavourable weather been rendered
unfit for sale at London, or other markets for home consumption; that large quantities of malt
were then lying at London, arising chiefly from the crops of barley growing in the year one
thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven, the sale of which was stagnated; that the petitioners
being informed the house had ordered in a bill to continue the prohibition of corn exported,
they begged leave to observe, that, should it pass into a law, it would be extremely prejudicial
to all, and ruin many farmers of that county, as they had offered their corn for sale at divers
ports and markets of the said county: but the merchants refused to buy it at any price, alleging,
its being unfit for the London market, the great quantity of corn with which that market was
already overstocked, and their not being allowed either to export it or make it into malt for
exportation. They therefore prayed this prohibition might be removed, or they the petitioners
indulged with some other kind of relief. Although this remonstrance was duly considered, the
bill passed with the amendments because of the proviso, by which his majesty in council was
empowered to shorten the date of the prohibition with respect to the exportation of corn during
the recess of parliament; but the temporary restraint laid upon distillation was made absolute,
without any such condition, to the no small disappointment and mortification of the distillers,
who had spared no pains and expense by private solicitation, and strenuous dispute in the public
papers, to recommend their cause to the favour of the community. They urged that malt-spirits,
when used in moderation, far from being prejudicial to the health of individuals, were in many
damp and marshy parts of the kingdom absolutely necessary for preserving the field labourers
from agues and other distempers produced by the cold and moisture of the climate; that if they
were debarred the use of malt-spirits, they would have recourse to French brandy, with which,
as they generally reside near the sea-coast, the smugglers would provide them almost as cheap
as the malt-spirits could be afforded: thus the increased consumption of French spirit would
drain the nation of ready money to a considerable amount, and prejudice the king's revenue
in the same proportion. They observed, that many distillers had already quitted that branch
of trade and disposed of their materials; that all of them would probably take the same resolutions
should the bill pass into a law, as no man could foresee when the prohibition would cease,
should it be continued at a time when all sorts of grain abounded in such plenty, that the
very waste of materials by disuse, over and above the lying out of the money, would be of great
prejudice to the proprietor: thus the business of distilling, by which so many families were
supported, would be banished from the kingdom entirely; especially, as the expense of establishing
a large distillery was so great, that no man would choose to employ his money for this purpose,
judging from experience that some future accidental scarcity of corn might induce the legislature
to interpose a ruinous delay in this branch of business. They affirmed, that from the excessive
use of malt-spirits no good argument could be drawn against this branch of traffic, no more
than against any other conveniency of life; that the excessive use of common beer and ale was
prejudicial to the health and morals of the people, yet no person ever thought of putting an
end to the practice of brewing, in order to prevent the abuse of brewed liquors. They urged
that in all parts of Great Britain there are some parcels of land that produce nothing to advantage
but a coarse kind of barley called big, which, though neither fit for brewing nor for baking,
may nevertheless be used in the distillery, and is accordingly purchased by those concerned
in this branch at such an encouraging price, as enables many farmers to pay a higher rent to
their landlords than they could otherwise afford; that there are every year some parcels of
all sorts of grain so damaged by unseasonable weather, or other accidents, as to be rendered
altogether unfit for bread or brewery, and would prove a very great misfortune to the farmer,
if there was no distillery, for the use of which he could sell his damaged commodity. They
asserted, that malt-spirits were absolutely necessary for prosecuting some branches of foreign
commerce, particularly the trade to the coast of Africa, for which traffic no assortment could
be made up without a large quantity of geneva, of which the natives are so fond, that they
will not traffic with any merchant who has not a considerable quantity, not only for sale,
but also for presents to their chiefs and rulers; that the merchants of Great Britain must
either have this commodity of their own produce, or import it at a great national expense from
Holland; that the charge of this importation, together with the duties payable upon it, some
part of which is not to be drawn back on exportation, will render it impossible for the traders
to sell it so cheap on the coast of Africa as it might be sold by the Dutch, who are the great
rivals of Great Britain in this branch of commerce. To these arguments, all of which were plausible,
and some of them unanswerable, it was replied, that malt-spirits might be considered as a fatal
and bewitching poison which had actually debauched the minds, and enervated the bodies, of
the common people to a very deplorable degree; that, without entering further into a comparison
between the use and abuse of the two liquors, beer and geneva, it would be sufficient to observe,
that the use of beer and ale had produced none of those dreadful effects which were the consequences
of drinking geneva; and since the prohibition of the distilling of malt-spirits had taken place,
the common people were become apparently more sober, decent, healthy, and industrious: a circumstance
sufficient to induce the legislature not only to intermit, but even totally to abolish the
practice of distillation, which has ever been productive of such intoxication, riot, disorder,
and distemper, among the lower class of the people, as might be deemed the greatest evils incident
to a well-regulated commonwealth. Their assertion with respect to the coarse kind of barley,
called big, was contradicted as a deviation from truth, inasmuch as it was used in making malt,
as well as in making bread: and with respect to damaged corn, those who understood the nature
of grain affirmed, that it was spoiled to such a degree as to be altogether unfit for either
of these purposes, the distillers would not purchase it at such a price as would indemnify
the farmer for the charge of threshing and carriage; for the distillers are very sensible,
that their great profit is derived from their distilling the malt made from the best barley,
so that the increase of the produce far exceeded in proportion the advance of the price. It
was not, however, an easy matter to prove that the distillation of malt-spirits was not necessary
to an advantageous prosecution of the commerce on the coast of Guinea, as well as among the
Indians in some parts of North America. Certain it is, that, in these branches of traffic,
the want of geneva may be supplied by spirits distilled from sugars and molasses. After all,
it must be owned, that the good and salutary effects of the prohibition were visible in every
part of the kingdom, and no evil consequence ensued, except a diminution of the revenue in
this article: a consideration which, at all times, ought to be sacrificed to the health and
morals of the people: nor will this consideration be found of any great weight, when we reflect
that the less the malt-spirit is drunk, the greater quantity of beer and ale will be consumed,
and the produce of the duties and excise upon the brewery be augmented accordingly.

In the meantime, all sorts of grain continuing to fall in price, and great plenty appearing
in every part of the kingdom, the justices of the peace, and of the grand juries, assembled
at the general quarter sessions of the peace held for the county of Norfolk, composed and presented
to the house of commons, in the beginning of February, a petition, representing, that the weather
proving unfavourable in the harvest, great part of the barley raised in that county was much
damaged, and rendered unfit for any other use than that of being made into malt for exportation;
that unless it should be speedily manufactured for that purpose, it would be entirely spoiled,
and perish in the hands of the growers; a loss that must be very sensibly felt by the land
owners: they, therefore, entreated that leave might be given for the exportation of malt; and
that they might be favoured with such further relief, as to the house should seem just and
reasonable. In consequence of this petition, the house resolved itself into a committee to
deliberate upon the subject; and as it appeared, upon examination, that the price of grain
was reduced very low, and great abundance diffused through the kingdom, they resolved, that
the continuance of that part of the act, prohibiting the exportation of grain, ought to be
abridged and shortened, and the exportation of these commodities allowed under proper regulations,
with respect to the time of such exportation and the allowance of bounties thereupon. A bill
being founded on these resolutions, was discussed, and underwent several amendments: at length
it was sent with a new title to the lords, who passed it without further alteration, and then
it obtained the royal sanction. While this affair was under the deliberation of the committee,
the commons unanimously issued an order for leave to bring in a bill to continue, for a limited
time, the act of last session, permitting the importation of salted beef from Ireland into
Great Britain, with an instruction to receive a clause extending this permission to all sorts
of salted pork, or hog-meat, as the officers of the customhouse had refused to admit hams from
Ireland to an entry. The bill likewise received another considerable alteration, importing,
That, instead of the duty of ona shilling and three-pence, charged by the former act on every
hundred weight of salted beef or pork imported from Ireland, which was found not adequate to
the duty payable for such a quantity of salt as is requisite to be used in curing and salting
thereof; and to prevent as well the expense to the revenue, as the detriment and loss which
would accrue to the owner and importer from opening the casks in which the provision is generally
deposited, with the pickle or brine proper for preserving the same, in order to ascertain the
net weight of the provision liable to the said duties: for these reasons it was enacted, That
from and after the twenty-fourth day of last December, and during the continuance of this act,
a duty of three shillings and four-pence should be paid upon importation for every barrel or
cask of salted beef or pork containing thirty-two gallons; and one shilling and three-pence
for every hundred weight of salted beef called dried beef, dried neats-tongues, or dried hog-meat,
and so in proportion for any greater or lesser quantity.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

REGULATIONS with RESPECT to PRIVATEERS.

Repeated complaints having been made to the government by neutral nations, especially the Dutch,
that their ships had been plundered, and their crews maltreated by some of the English privateers,
the legislature resolved to provide effectually against any such outrageous practices for the
future: and with this view the commons ordered a bill to be brought in for amending and explaining
an act of the twenty-ninth year of his late majesty's reign, intituled, "An act for the encouragement
of seamen, and more speedy and effectual manning of his majesty's navy." While the committee
was employed in perusing commissions and papers relating to private ships of war, that they
might be fully acquainted with the nature of the subject, a considerable number of merchants
and others, inhabiting the islands of Guernsey and Jersey, presented a petition to the house,
alleging, that the inhabitants of those islands which lie in the British channel within sight
of the French coast, had now, as well as in former wars, embarked their fortunes in equipping
small privateers, which used to run in close with the French shore, and being disguised like
fishing boats, had not only taken a considerable number of prizes, to the great annoyance of
the enemy, but also obtained material intelligence of their designs on many important occasions;
that these services could not be performed by large vessels, which durst not approach so near
the coast, and indeed could not appear without giving the alarm, which was communicated from
place to place by appointed signals. Being informed that a bill was depending, in order to
prohibit privateers of small burden, they declared that such a law, if extended to privateers
equipped in those islands, would ruin such as had invested their fortunes in small privateers,
and not only deprive the kingdom of the before-mentioned advantages, but expose Great Britain
to infinite prejudice from the small armed vessels of France, which the enemy, in that case,
could pour abroad over the whole channel to the great annoyance of navigation and commerce.
They prayed, therefore, that such privateers as belonged to the islands of Guernsey and Jersey
might be wholly excepted from the penalties contained in the bill, or that they, the petitioners,
might be heard by their counsel, and be indulged with such relief as the house should judge
expedient. This representation being referred to the consideration of the committee, produced
divers amendments to the hill, which at length obtained the royal assent, and contained these
regulations: That, after the first day of January in the present year, no commission should
be granted to a privateer in Europe under the burden of one hundred tons, the force of ten
carriage guns, being three-pounders or above, with forty men at the least, unless the lords
of the admiralty, or persons authorized by them, should think fit to grant the same to any
ship of inferior force or burden, the owners thereof giving such bail or security as should
be prescribed: that the lords of the admiralty might at any time revoke, by an order in writing
under their hands, any commission granted to a privateer; this revocation being subject to
an appeal to his majesty in council, whose determination should be final: that, previous to
the granting any commission, the persons proposing to be bound, and give security, should severally
make oath of their being respectively worth more money than the sum for which they were then
to be bound, over and above the payment of all their just debts: that persons applying for
such commissions should make application in writing, and therein set forth a particular and
exact description of the vessel, specifying the burden, and the number and nature of the guns
on board, to what place belonging, as well as the name or names of the principal owner or owners,
and the number of men: these particulars to be inserted in the commission; and every commander
to produce such commission to the custom-house officer who should examine the vessel, and,
finding her answer the description, give a certificate thereof gratis, to be deemed a necessary
clearance, without which the commander should not depart: that if, after the first day of July,
any captain of a privateer should agree for the ransom of any neutral vessel, or the cargo,
or any part thereof, after it should have been taken as prize, and in pursuance of such agreement
should actually discharge such prize, he should be deemed guilty of piracy; but that with respect
to contraband merchandise, he might take it on board his own ship, with the consent of the
commander of the neutral vessel, and then set her at liberty; and that no person should purloin
or embezzle the said merchandise before condemnation: that no judge, or other person belonging
to any court of admiralty, should be concerned in any privateer: that owners of vessels, not
being under fifty, or above one hundred tons, whose commissions are declared void, should be
indemnified for their loss by the public: that a court of oyer and terminer, and gaol delivery,
for the trial of offences committed within the jurisdiction of the admiralty, should be held
twice a-year in the Old Bailey at London, or in such other place within England as the board
of admiralty should appoint: that the judge of any court of admiralty, after an appeal interposed,
as well as before, should, at the request of the captor or claimant, issue an order for appraising
the capture, when the parties do not agree upon the value, and an inventory to be taken; then
exact security for the full value, and cause the capture to be delivered to the person giving
such security; but, should objection be made to the taking such security, the judge should,
at the request of either party, order such merchandise to be entered, landed, and sold at public
auction, and the produce to be deposited at the bank, or in some public securities: and in
case of security being given, the judge should grant a pass in favour of the capture. Finally,
the force of this act was limited to the duration of the then war with France only. This regulation
very clearly demonstrated, that whatever violences might have been committed on the ships of
neutral nations, they were by no means countenanced by the legislature, or the body of the people.

NEW MILITIA LAWS.

Every circumstance relating to the reformation of the marine, must be an important object to
a nation whose wealth and power depend upon navigation and commerce; but a consideration of
equal weight was the establishment of the militia, which, notwithstanding the repeated endeavours
of the parliament, was found still incomplete, and in want of further assistance from the legislature.
His majesty having, by the chancellor of the exchequer, recommended to the house the making
suitable provision for defraying the charges of the militia during the current year, the accounts
of the expense already incurred by this establishment were referred to the committee of supply,
who, after having duly perused them, resolved, that ninety thousand pounds should be granted
on account, towards defraying the charges of pay and clothing for the militia, from the last
day of the last year, to the twenty-fifth day of March in the year one thousand seven hundred
and sixty, and for repaying a sum advanced by the king for this service. Leave was given to
bring in one bill pursuant to this resolution, and another to enforce the execution of the
laws relating to the militia, remove certain difficulties, and prevent the incenveniencies
by which it might be attended. So intent were the majority on both sides upon this national
measure, that they not only carried both bills to the throne, where they received the royal
assent, but they presented an address to the king, desiring that his majesty would give directions
to his lieutenants of the several counties, ridings, and places in England, to use their utmost
diligence and attention for carrying into execution the several acts of parliament relating
to the militia. By this time all the individuals that constituted the representatives of the
people, except such as actually served in the army, were become very well disposed towards
this institution. Those who really wished well to their country had always exerted themselves
in its favour; and it was now likewise espoused by those who foresaw that the establishment
of a national militia would enable the administration to send the greater number of regular
troops to fight the battles of Germany. Yet how zealous soever the legislature might be in
promoting this institution, and notwithstanding the success with which many patriots exerted
their endeavours through different parts of the kingdom, in raising and disciplining the militia,
it was found not only difficult, but almost impracticable, to execute the intention of the
parliament in some particular counties, where the gentlemen were indolent and enervated, or
in those places where they looked upon their commander with contempt. Even Middlesex itself,
where the king resides, was one of the last counties in which the militia could be arrayed.
In allusion to this backwardness, the preamble or first clause in one of the present acts imported,
that certain counties, ridings, and places in England had made some progress in establishing
the militia, without completing the same, and that, in certain other counties, little progress
had been made therein, his majesty's lieutenants and the deputy-lieutenants, and all others
within such counties or districts, were therefore strictly required speedily and diligently
to put these acts in execution. The truth is, some of these unwarlike commanders failed through
ignorance and inactivity; others gave, or offered commissions to such people as threw a ridicule
and contempt upon the whole establishment, and consequently hindered many gentlemen of worth,
spirit, and capacity, from engaging in the service. The mutiny-bill, and that for the regulation
of the marine-forces while on shore, passed through the usual forms, as annual measures, without
any dispute or alteration. [485] [See note 3 S, at the end of this Vol.]

ACT FOR THE RELIEF OF DEBTORS REVIVED.

A committee having been appointed to inquire what laws were expired, or near expiring, and
to report their opinion to the house touching the revival or continuation of these laws, they
agreed to several resolutions; in consequence of which the following bills were brought in,
and enacted into laws; namely, an act for regulating the lastage and ballastage of the river
Thames; an act for continuing the law relating to the punishment of persons going armed or
disguised; an act for continuing several laws near expiring; an act concerning the admeasurement
of coals; an act for the relief of debtors, with respect to the imprisonment of their persons.
This last was almost totally metamorphosed by alterations, amendments, and additions, among
which the most remarkable were these: that where more creditors than one shall charge any prisoner
in execution, and desired to have him detained in prison, they shall only respectively pay
him each such weekly sum, not exceeding one shilling and sixpence per week, as the court, at
the time of his being remanded, shall direct; that if any prisoner, described by the act, shall
remain in prison three months after being committed, any creditor may compel him to give into
court, upon oath, an account of his real and personal estate, to be disposed of for the benefit
of his creditors, they consenting to his being discharged. Why the humanity of this law was
confined to those prisoners only who are not charged in execution with any debt exceeding one
hundred pounds, cannot easily be conceived. A man who, through unavoidable misfortunes, hath
sunk from affluence to misery and indigence, is generally a greater object of compassion than
he who never knew the delicacies of life, nor ever enjoyed credit sufficient to contract debts
to any considerable amount; yet the latter is by this law entitled to his discharge, or at
least to a maintenance in prison; while the former is left to starve in gaol, or undergo perpetual
imprisonment amidst all the horrors of misery, if he owes above one hundred pounds to a revengeful
and unrelenting creditor. Wherefore, in a country, the people of which justly pique themselves
upon charity and benevolence, an unhappy fellow-citizen, reduced to a state of bankruptcy by
unforeseen losses in trade, should be subjected to a punishment, which of all others must be
the most grievous to a freeborn Briton, namely, the entire loss of liberty; a punishment which
the most flagrant crime can hardly deserve in a nation that disclaims the torture; for, doubtless,
perpetual imprisonment must be a torture infinitely more severe than death, because protracted
through a series of years spent in misery and despair, without one glimmering ray of hope,
without the most distant prospect of deliverance? Wherefore the legislature should extend its
humanity to those only who are the least sensible of the benefit, because the most able to
struggle under misfortune? and wherefore many valuable individuals should, for no guilt of
their own, be not only ruined to themselves, but lost to the community? are questions which
we cannot resolve to the satisfaction of the reader. Of all imprisoned debtors, those who are
confined for large sums may be deemed the most wretched and forlorn, because they have generally
fallen from a sphere of life where they had little acquaintance with necessity, and were altogether
ignorant of the arts by which the severities of indigence are alleviated. On the other hand,
those of the lower class of mankind, whose debts are small in proportion to the narrowness
of their former credit, have not the same delicate feelings of calamity: they are inured to
hardship, and accustomed to the labour of their hands, by which, even in a prison, they can
earn a subsistence: their reverse of fortune is not so great, nor the transition so affecting:
their sensations are not delicate; nor are they, like their betters in misfortune, cut off
from hope, which is the wretch's last comfort. It is the man of sentiment and sensibility,
who, in this situation, is overwhelmed with a complication of misery and ineffable distress:
the mortification of his pride, his ambition blasted, his family undone, himself deprived of
liberty, reduced from opulence to extreme want, from the elegancies of life to the most squalid
and frightful scenes of poverty and affliction; divested of comfort, destitute of hope, and
doomed to linger out a wretched being in the midst of insult, violence, riot, and uproar; these
are reflections so replete with horror, as to render him, in all respects, the most miserable
object on the face of the earth. He, alas! though possessed of talents that might have essentially
served and even adorned society, while thus restrained in prison, and affected in mind, can
exert no faculty, nor stoop to any condescension, by which the horrors of his fate might be
assuaged: he scorns to execute the lowest offices of menial services, particularly in attending
those who are the objects of contempt or abhorrence; he is incapable of exercising any mechanic
art, which might afford a happy though a scanty independence: shrunk within his dismal cell,
surrounded by haggard poverty, and her gaunt attendants, hollow-eyed famine, shivering cold,
and wan disease, he wildly casts his eyes around; he sees the tender partner of his heart weeping
in silent woe; he hears his helpless babes clamorous for sustenance; he feels himself the importunate
cravings of human nature, which he cannot satisfy; and groans with all the complicated pangs
of internal anguish, horror, and despair. These are not the fictions of idle fancy, but real
pictures, drawn from nature, of which almost every prison in England will afford but too many
originals.

BILLS FOR THE IMPORTATION OF IRISH BEEF AND TALLOW.

Among other new measures, a successful attempt was made in favour of Ireland, by a bill, permitting
the free importation of cattle from that kingdom for a limited time. This, however, was not
carried through both houses without considerable opposition, arising from the particular interests
of certain counties and districts in several parts of Great Britain, from whence petitions
against the bill were transmitted to the commons. Divers artifices were also used within doors
to saddle the bill with such clauses as might overcharge the scheme, and render it odious or
alarming to the public; but the promoters of it being aware of the design, conducted it in
such a manner as to frustrate all their views, and convey it safely to the throne, where it
was enacted into a law. The like success attended another effort in behalf of our fellow-subjects
of Ireland. The bill for the importation of Irish cattle was no sooner ordered to be brought
in, than the house proceeded to take into consideration the duties then payable on the importation
of tallow from the same kingdom; and several witnesses being examined, the committee agreed
to a resolution, that these duties should cease and determine for a limited time. A bill being
formed accordingly, passed through both houses without opposition, though in the preceding
session a bill to the same purpose had miscarried among the peers: a miscarriage probably owing
to their being unacquainted with the sentiments of his majesty, as some of the duties upon
tallow constituted part of one of the branches appropriated for the civil list revenue. This
objection, however, was obviated in the case of the present bill, by the king's message to
the house of commons, signifying his majesty's consent, as far as his interest was concerned
in the affair. By this new act the free importation of Irish tallow was permitted for the term
of five years.

In the month of February the commons presented an address to his majesty, requesting that he
would give directions for laying before the house an account of what had been done, since the
beginning of last year, towards securing the harbour of Milford, in pursuance of any directions
from his majesty. These accounts being perused, and the king having, by the chancellor of the
exchequer, exhorted them to make provision for fortifying the said harbour, a bill was brought
in to explain, amend, and render more effectual, the act of the last session relating to this
subject; and, passing through both houses, received the royal assent without opposition. By
this act several engineers were added to the commissioners formerly appointed; and it was ordained
that fortifications should be erected at Peter-church-point, Westlanyon-point, and Neyland-point,
as being the most proper and best situated places for fortifying the interior parts of the
harbour. It was also enacted, that the commissioners should appoint proper secretaries, clerks,
assistants, and other officers, for carrying the two acts into execution, and that an account
of the application of the money should be laid before parliament, within twenty days of the
opening of every session. What next attracted the attention of the house was an affair of the
utmost importance to the commerce of the kingdom, which equally affected the interest of the
nation, and the character of the natives. In the latter end of February complaint was made
to the house, that, since the commencement of the war, an infamous traffic had been set on
foot by some merchants of London, of importing French cloths into several ports of the Levant,
on account of British subjects. Five persons were summoned to attend the house, and the fact
was fully proved, not only by their evidence, but also by some papers submitted to the house
by the Turkey company. A bill was immediately contrived for putting a stop to this scandalous
practice, reciting in the preamble, that such traffic was not only a manifest discouragement
and prejudice to the woollen manufactures of Great Britain, but also a relief to the enemy,
in consequence of which they were enabled to maintain the war against these kingdoms.

The next object that employed the attention of the commons, was to explain and amend a law
made in the last session for granting to his majesty several rates and duties upon offices
and pensions. The directions specified in the former act for levying this imposition having
been found inconvenient in many respects, new regulations were now established, importing,
that those deductions should be paid into the hands of receivers appointed by the king for
that purpose; that all sums deducted under this act should be accounted for to such receivers,
and the accounts audited and passed by them, and not by the auditors of the impress, or of
the exchequer: that all disputes relating to the collection of this duty should be finally,
and in a summary way, determined by the barons of the exchequer in England and Scotland respectively:
that the commissioners of the land-tax should fix and ascertain the sum total or amount of
the perquisites of every office and employment within their respective districts, distinct
from the salary thereunto belonging, to be deducted under the said act, independently of any
former valuation or assessment of the same to the land-tax; and should rate or assess all offices
and employments, the perquisites whereof should be found to exceed the sum of one hundred pounds
per annum, at one shilling for every twenty thence arising; that the receivers should transmit
to the commissioners in every district where any office or employment is to be assessed, an
account of such officers and employments, that, upon being certified of the truth of their
amount, they might be rated and assessed accordingly; that in all future assessments of the
land-tax, the said offices and employments should not be valued at higher rates than those
at which they were assessed towards the land-tax of the thirty-first year of the present reign;
that the word perquisite should be understood to mean such profits of offices and employments
as arise from fees established by custom or authority, and payable either by the crown or the
subjects, in consideration of business done in the course of executing such offices and employments;
and that a commissioner possessed of any office or employment, might not interfere in the execution
of the said act, except in what might relate to his own employment. By the four last clauses,
several salaries were exempted from the payment of this duty. The objections made without doors
to this new law, were the accession of pecuniary influence to the crown by the creation of
a new office and officers, whereas this duty might have been easily collected and received
by the commissioners of the land-tax already appointed, and the inconsistency that appeared
between the fifth and seventh clause: in the former of these the commissioners of the land-tax
were vested with the power of assessing the perquisites of every office within their respective
districts, independent of any former valuation or assessment of the same to the land-tax; and
by the latter, they are restricted from assessing any office at a higher rate than that of
the thirty-first year of the reign of George II.

In the beginning of March, petitions were offered to the house by the merchants of Birmingham
in Warwickshire, and Sheffield in Yorkshire, specifying that the toy trade of these and many
other towns consisted generally of articles in which gold and silver might be said to be manufactured,
though in a small proportion, inasmuch as the sale of them depended upon slight ornaments of
gold and silver: that by a clause passed in the last session of parliament, obliging every
person who should sell goods or wares in which any gold or silver was manufactured to take
out an annual license of forty shillings, they the petitioners were laid under great difficulties
and disadvantages; that not only the first seller, but every person through whose hands the
goods or wares passed to the consumer, was required to take out the said license: they therefore
requested that the house should take these hardships and inequalities into consideration, and
indulge them with reasonable relief. The committee, to which this affair was referred, having
resolved that this imposition was found detrimental to the toy and cutlery trade of the kingdom,
the house agreed to the resolution, and a bill being prepared, under the title of "An act to
amend the act made in the last session, for repealing the duty granted by an act of the sixth
year of the reign of his late majesty, on silver plate, and for granting a duty on licenses
to be taken out by all persons dealing in gold and silver plate," was enacted into a law by
the royal sanction. By this new regulation, small quantities of gold and silver plate were
allowed to be sold without license. Instead of the duty before payable upon licenses, another
was granted, to be taken out by certain dealers in gold and silver plate, pawnbrokers, and
refiners. This affair being discussed, the house took into consideration the claims of the
proprietors of lands purchased for the better securing of his majesty's docks, ships, and stores
at Chatham, Portsmouth, and Plymouth; and for better fortifying the town of Portsmouth, and
citadel of Plymouth, in pursuance of an act passed in the last session. We have already specified
the sum granted for this purpose, in consequence of a resolution of the house, upon which a
bill being founded, soon passed into a law without opposition.*

     * The next bill which was brought into the house related to
     the summons issued by the commissioners of the excise, and
     justices of the peace, for the appearance of persons
     offending against, or for forfeitures incurred by, the laws
     of excise. As some doubts had arisen with respect to the
     method of summoning in such cases, this bill, which obtained
     the royal assent in due course, enacted, that the summons
     left at the houses, or usual place of residence, or with the
     wife, child, or menial servants of the person so summoned,
     should be held as legal notice, as well as the leaving such
     notice at the house, workhouse, warehouse, shop, cellar,
     vault, or usual place of residence, of such person, directed
     to him by his right or assumed name; and all dealers in
     coffee, tea, or chocolate, were subjected to the penalty of
     twenty pounds, as often as they should neglect to attend the
     commissioners of excise, when summoned in this manner.

In the month of April, a bill was brought in for the more effectual preventing the fraudulent
importation of cambrics; and while it was under deliberation, several merchants and wholesale
drapers of the city of London presented a petition, representing the grievances to which they,
and many thousand of other traders, would be subjected, should the bill, as it then stood,
be passed into a law. According to their request, they were heard by their counsel on the merits
of this remonstrance, and some amendments were made to the bill in their favour. At length
it received the royal assent, and became a law to the following effect: It enacted, that no
cambrics, French lawns, or linens of this kind usually entered under the denomination of cambrics,
should be imported after the first day of next August, but in bales, cases, or boxes, covered
with sackcloth or canvas, containing each one hundred whole pieces, or two hundred half pieces,
on penalty of forfeiting the whole; that cambrics and French lawns should be imported for exportation
only, lodged in the king's warehouses, and delivered out under like security, and restrictions
as prohibited East India merchandise, and, on importation, pay only the half subsidy: that
all cambrics and French lawns in the custody of any persons should be deposited, by the first
of August, in the king's warehouses, the bonds thereupon be delivered up, and the drawback
on exportation paid; yet the goods should not be delivered out again but for exportation: that
cambrics and French lawns exposed to sale, or found in the possession of private persons, after
the said day, should be forfeited, and liable to be searched for, and seized, in like manner
as other prohibited and uncustomed goods are; and the offender should forfeit two hundred pounds
over and above all other penalties and forfeitures inflicted by any former act: that if any
doubt should arise concerning the species or quality of the goods, or the place where they
were manufactured, the proof should lie on the owner: finally, that the penalty of five pounds
inflicted by a former act, and payable to the informer, on any person that should wear any
cambric or French lawns, should still remain in force, and be recoverable, on conviction, by
oath of one witness, before one justice of the peace.--The last successful bill which this
session produced, was that relating to the augmentation of the salaries of the judges in his
majesty's superior courts of justice. A motion having been made for an instruction to the committee
of supply, to consider of the said augmentation, the chancellor of the exchequer acquainted
the house, that this augmentation was recommended to them by his majesty. Nevertheless, the
motion was opposed, and a warm debate ensued. At length, however, being carried in the affirmative,
the committee agreed to certain resolutions, on which a bill was founded. While it remained
under discussion, a motion was made for an instruction to the committee, that they should have
power to receive a clause or clauses for restraining the judges, comprehended within the provisions
of the bill, from receiving any fee, gift, present, or entertainment, from any city, town,
borough, or corporation, or from any sheriff, gaoler, or other officer, upon their several
respective circuits, and from taking any gratuity from any officer or officers of any of the
courts of law. Another motion was made, for a clause restraining such judges, barons, and justices,
as were comprehended within the provisions of the bill, from interfering, otherwise than by
giving their own votes, in any election of members to serve in parliament; but both these proposals,
being put to the vote, were carried in the negative. These two motions being over-ruled by
the majority, the bill underwent some amendments; and having passed through both houses in
the ordinary course, was enacted into a law by the royal sanction. With respect to the import
of this act, it is no other than the establishment of the several stamp-duties, applied to
the augmentation, and the appropriation of their produce in such a manner, that the crown cannot
alter the application of the sums thus granted in parliament. But on this occasion, no attempt
was made in favour of the independency of the judges, which seems to have been invaded by a
late interpretation of, or rather by a deviation from, the act of settlement; in which it is
expressly ordained, that the commissions of the judge? should continue in force quamdiu se
bene gesserint; that their salaries should be fixed, and none of them remove-able but by an
address of both houses of parliament. It was then, without all doubt, the intention of the
legislature that every judge should enjoy his office during life, unless convicted, by legal
trial, of some misbehaviour, or unless both houses of parliament should concur in desiring
his removal: but the doctrine now adopted imports, that no commission can continue in force
longer than the life of the king by whom it was granted; that therefore the commissions of
the judges must be renewed by a new king at his accession, who should have it in his power
to employ either those whom he finds acting as judges at his accession, or confer their offices
on others, with no other restraint than that the condition of new commissions, should be quamdiu
se bene gesserint. Thus the office of a judge is more precarious, and the influence of the
crown receives a considerable reinforcement.

Among the bills that miscarried in the course of the session, we may number a second attempt
to carry into execution the scheme which was offered last year for the more effectual manning
the navy, preventing desertion, and relieving and encouraging the seamen of Great Britain.
A bill was accordingly brought in, couched in nearly the same terms which had been rejected
in the last session; and it was supported by a considerable number of members, animated with
a true spirit of patriotism: but to the trading part of the nation it appeared one of those
plausible projects, which, though agreeable in speculation, can never be reduced into practice,
without a concomitancy of greater evils than those they were intended to remove. While the
bill remained under the consideration of the house, petitions were presented against it by
the merchants of Bristol, Scarborough, Whitby, Ivingston-upon-Hull, and Lancaster, representing,
that by such a law, the trade of the kingdom, which is the nursery and support of seamen at
all times, and that spirit of equipping private ships of war, which had been of distinguished
service to the nation, would be laid under such difficulties as might cause a great stagnation
in the former, and a total suppression of the latter; the bill, therefore, would be highly
prejudicial to the marine of the kingdom, and altogether ineffectual for the purposes intended.
A great number of books and papers, relating to trading ships and vessels, as well as to seamen
and other persons protected or pressed into the navy, and to expenses occasioned by pressing
men into the navy, were examined in a committee of the whole house, and the bill was improved
with many amendments: nay, after it was printed and engrossed, several clauses were added by
way of rider; yet still the experiment seemed dangerous. The motion for its being past was
violently opposed; warm debates ensued; they were adjourned, and resumed; and the arguments
against the bill appeared at length in such a striking light, that, when the question was put,
the majority declared for the negative. The regulations which had been made in parliament during
the twenty-sixth, the twenty-eighth, and thirtieth years of the present reign, for the preservation
of the public roads, being attended with some inconveniencies in certain parts of the kingdom,
petitions were brought from some counties in Wales, as well as from the freeholders of Hertfordshire,
the farmers of Middlesex, and others, enumerating the difficulties attending the use of broad
wheels, in one case, and the limitation of horses used in drawing carriages with narrow wheels,
in the other. The matter of these remonstrances was considered in a committee of the whole
house, which resolved, that the weight to be carried by all waggons and carts, travelling on
the turnpike roads, should be limited. On this resolution a bill was framed, for amending and
reducing into one act of parliament the three acts before mentioned for the preservation of
the public highways; but some objections being started, and a petition interposed by the land-holders
of Suffolk and Norfolk, alleging that the bill, if passed into a law, would render it impossible
to bring fresh provisions from those counties to London, as the supply depended absolutely
upon the quickness of conveyance, the further consideration of it was postponed to a longer
day, and never resumed in the sequel: so that the attempt miscarried.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

CASE OF THE INSOLVENT DEBTORS.

Of all the subjects, which, in the course of this session, fell under the cognizance of parliament,
there was none that more interested the humanity, or challenged the redress, of the legislature,
than did the case of the poor insolvent debtors, who languished under all the miseries of indigence
and imprisonment. In the month of February a petition was offered to the commons in behalf
of bankrupts, who represented, that having scrupulously conformed to the laws made concerning
bankruptcy, by surrendering their all upon oath, for the benefit of their creditors, they had
nevertheless been refused their certificates, without any probability of relief; that by this
cruel refusal, many bankrupts have been obliged to abscond, while others were immured in prison,
and these unhappy sufferers groaned under the particular hardship of being excluded from the
benefit of laws occasionally made for the relief of insolvent debtors; that the power vested
in creditors of refusing certificates to their bankrupts, was, as the petitioners conceived,
founded upon a presumption that such power would be tenderly exercised, and never but in notorious
cases; but the great increase in the number of bankrupts within two years past, and in the
small proportion of those who had been able to obtain their certificates, seemed to demonstrate
that the power had been used for cruel and unjust purposes, contrary to the intention of the
legislature: that as the greater part of the petitioners, and their fellow-sufferers, must
inevitably and speedily perish, with their distressed families, unless seasonably relieved
by the interposition of parliament, they implored the compassion of the house, from which they
hoped immediate favour and relief. This petition was accompanied with a printed case, explaining
the nature of the laws relating to bankrupts, and pointing out their defects in point of policy
as well as humanity; but little regard was seemingly paid to either remonstrance. Other petitions,
however, being presented by insolvent debtors, imprisoned in different gaols within the kingdom,
leave was given to bring in a bill for their relief, and a committee appointed to examine the
laws relating to bankruptcy.

CASE OF CAPTAIN WALKER.

Among other petitionary remonstrances on this subject, the members were separately presented
with the printed case of captain George Walker, a prisoner in the gaol of the king's bench,
who had been declared a bankrupt, and complained, that he had been subjected to some flagrant
acts of injustice and oppression. The case contained such extraordinary allegations, and the
captain's character was so remarkably fair and interesting, that the committee, which were
empowered to send for persons, papers, and records, resolved to inquire into the particulars
of his misfortune. A motion was made and agreed to, that the marshal of the prison should bring
the captain before the committee; and the speaker's warrant was issued accordingly. The prisoner
was produced, and examined at several sittings, and some of the members expressed a laudable
eagerness to do him justice; but his antagonists were very powerful, and left no stone unturned
to frustrate the purpose of the inquiry, which was dropped of course at the end of the session.
Thus the unfortunate captain Walker, who had, in the late war, remarkably distinguished himself
at sea by his courage and conduct, repeatedly signalizing himself against the enemies of his
country, was sent back without redress to the gloomy mansions of a gaol, where he had already
pined for several years, useless to himself, and lost to the community, while he might have
been profitably employed in retrieving his own fortune, and exerting his talents for the general
advantage of the nation. While this affair was in agitation, the bill for the relief of insolvent
debtors was prepared, printed, and read a second time; but, when the motion was made for its
being committed, a debate arose, and this was adjourned from time to time till the end of the
session. In the meantime, the committee continued to deliberate upon the laws relating to bankruptcy;
and in the beginning of June reported their resolution to the house, that, in their opinion,
some amendments might be made to the laws concerning bankruptcy; to the advantage of creditors,
and relief of insolvents. Such was the notice vouchsafed to the cries of many British subjects,
deprived of liberty, and destitute of the common necessaries of life.

REMARKS ON THE BANKRUPT-LAWS.

It would engage us in a long digressive discussion were we to inquire how the spirit of the
laws in England, so famed for lenity, has been exasperated into such severity against insolvent
debtors; and why, among a people so distinguished for generosity and compassion, the gaols
should be more filled with prisoners than they are in any other part of Christendom. Perhaps
both these deviations from a general character are violent efforts of a wary legislature made
in behalf of trade, which cannot bo too much cherished in a nation that principally depends
upon commerce. The question is, whether this laudable aim may not be more effectually accomplished,
without subjecting individuals to oppression, arising from the cruelty and revenge of one another.
As the laws are modelled at present, it cannot be denied that the debtor, in some cases, lies
in a peculiar manner at the mercy of his creditor. By the original and common law of England,
no man could be imprisoned for debt. The plaintiff in any civil action could have no execution
upon his judgment, against either the body or the lands of the defendant: even with respect
to his goods and chattels, which were subject to execution, he was obliged to leave him such
articles as were necessary for agriculture. But, in process of time, this indulgence being
found prejudicial to commerce, a law was enacted, in the reign of Edward I. allowing execution
on the person of the debtor, provided his goods and chattels were not sufficient to pay the
debt which he had contracted. This law was still attended with a very obvious inconvenience:
the debtor, who possessed an estate in lands, was tempted to secrete his moveable effects,
and live in concealment on the produce of his lands, while the sheriff connived at his retirement.
To remove this evil, a second statute was enacted in the same reign, granting immediate execution
against the body, lands, and goods of the debtor; yet his effects could not be sold for the
benefit of his creditors till the expiration of three months, during which he himself could
dispose of them for ready money, in order to discharge his incumbrances. If the creditor was
not satisfied in this manner, he continued in possession of the debtor's lands, and detained
the debtor himself in prison, where he was obliged to supply him with bread and water for his
support, until the debt was discharged. Other severe regulations were made in the sequel, particularly
in the reign of Edward III. which gave rise to the writ of capias ad satisfaciendum. This indeed
rendered the preceding laws, called statute-merchant, and statute-staple, altogether unnecessary.
Though the liberty of the subject, and the security of the landholder, were thus in some measure
sacrificed to the advantage of commerce, an imprisoned debtor was not left entirely at the
mercy of an inexorable creditor. If he made all the satisfaction in his power, and could show
that his insolvency was owing to real misfortunes, the court of chancery interposed on his
petition, and actually ordered him to be discharged from prison, when no good reason for detaining
him could be assigned. This interposition, which seems naturally to belong to a court of equity,
constituted with a view to mitigate the rigour of the common law, ceased, in all probability
after the restoration of Charles the Second, and of consequence the prisons were filled with
debtors. Then the legislature charged themselves with the extension of a power, which perhaps
a chancellor no longer thought himself safe in exercising; and in the year one thousand six
hundred and seventy, passed the first act for the relief of insolvent debtors, granting a release
to all prisoners for debt, without distinction or inquiry. By this general indulgence, which
has even in a great measure continued in all subsequent acts of the same kind, the lenity of
the parliament may be sometimes misapplied, inasmuch as insolvency is often criminal, arising
from profligacy and extravagance, which deserve to be severely punished. Yet, even for this
species of insolvency, perpetual imprisonment, aggravated by the miseries of extreme indigence,
and the danger of perishing through famine, may be deemed a punishment too severe. How cruel
then must it be to leave the most innocent bankrupt exposed to this punishment, from the revenge
or sinister design of a merciless creditor; a creditor, by whose fraud the prisoner became
a bankrupt, and by whoso craft he is detained in gaol, lest by his discharge from prison, he
should be enabled to seek that redress in chancery to which he is entitled on a fair account!
The severity of the law was certainly intended against fraudulent bankrupts only; and the statute
of bankruptcy is, doubtless, favourable to insolvents, as it discharges from all former debts
those who obtained their certificates. As British subjects, they are surely entitled to the
same indulgence which is granted to other insolvents. They were always included in every act
passed for the relief of insolvent debtors, till the sixth year of George I. when they were
first excepted from this benefit. By a law enacted in the reign of queen Anne, relating to
bankruptcy, any creditor was at liberty to object to the confirmation of the bankrupt's certificate;
but the chancellor had power to judge whether the objection was frivolous or well-founded:
yet, by a latter act, the chancellor is obliged to confirm the certificate, if it is agreeable
to four-fifths in number and value of the creditors; whereas he cannot confirm it, should he
be opposed, even without any reason assigned, by one creditor to whom the greatest part of
the debt is owing. It might, therefore, deserve the consideration of parliament, whether, in
extending their clemency to the poor, it should not be equally diffused to bankrupts and other
insolvents; whether proper distinction ought not to be made between the innocent bankrupt who
fails through misfortune in trade, and him who becomes insolvent from fraud or profligacy:
and finally, whether the inquiry and trial of all such cases would not properly fall within
the province of chancery, a tribunal instituted for the mitigation of common law.

INQUIRY INTO THE STATE OF THE POOR.

The house of commons seems to have been determined on another measure, which, however, does
not admit of explanation. An order was made in the month of February, that leave should be
given to bring in a bill to explain, amend, and render effectual, so much of an act passed
in the thirteenth year of George II. against the excessive increase of horse-races, and deceitful
gaming, as related to that increase. The bill was accordingly presented, read, printed, and
ordered to be committed to a committee of the whole house; but the order was delayed from time
to time till the end of the session. Some progress was likewise made in another affair of greater
consequence to the community. A committee was appointed in the month of March, to take into
consideration the state of the poor in England, as well as the laws enacted for their maintenance.
The clerks of the peace belonging to all the counties, cities, and towns in England and Wales,
were ordered to transmit, for the perusal of the house, an account of the annual expense of
passing vagrants through their respective divisions and districts for four years: and the committee
began to deliberate on this important subject. In the latter end of May the house was made
acquainted with their resolutions, importing, that the present methods of relieving the poor
in the respective parishes, where no workhouses have been provided for their reception and
employment, are, in general, very burdensome to the inhabitants, and tend to render the poor
miserable to themselves, and useless to the community: that the present method of giving money
out of the parochial rates to persons capable of labour, in order to prevent them from claiming
an entire subsistence for themselves and their families, is contrary to the spirit and intention
of the laws for the relief of the poor, is a dangerous power in the hands of parochial officers,
a misapplication of the public money, and a great encouragement to idleness and intemperance;
that the employment of the poor, under proper direction and management, in such works and manufactures
as are suited to their respective capacities, would be of great utility to the public: that
settling the poor in Workhouses, to be provided in the several counties and ridings in England
and Wales, under the direction and management of governors and trustees to be appointed for
that purpose, would be the most effectual method of relieving such poor persons, as, by age,
infirmities, or diseases, are rendered incapable of supporting themselves by their labour:
of employing the able and industrious, reforming the idle and profligate, and of educating
poor children in religion and industry: and that the poor in such workhouses would be better
regulated and maintained, and managed with more advantage to the public, by guardians, governors,
or trustees, to be especially appointed, or chosen for that purpose, and incorporated with
such powers, and under such restrictions, as the legislature should deem proper, than by the
annual parochial officers: that erecting workhouses upon the waste lands, and appropriating
a certain quantity of such lands to be cultivated, in order to produce provisions for the poor
in the said houses, would not only be the means of instructing and employing many of the said
poor in agriculture, but lessen the expense of the public: that controversies and law-suits
concerning the settlements of poor persons, occasioned a very great, and in general an useless
expense to the public, amounting to many thousand pounds per annum; and that often more money
is expended in ascertaining such settlements by each of the contending parishes than would
be sufficient to maintain the paupers: that should workhouses be established for the general
reception of the poor, in the respective counties and ridings of England, the laws relating
to the settlements of the poor, and the passing of vagrants, might be repealed: that while
the present laws relating to the poor subsist, the compelling parish-officers to grant certificates
to the poor, would in all probability prevent the hardships they now suffer, in being debarred
gaining their livelihood, where they can do it most usefully to themselves and the public.
From these sensible resolutions, the reader may conceive some idea of the misconduct that attends
the management of the poor in England, as well as of the grievous burdens entailed upon the
people by the present laws which constitute this branch of the legislature. The committee's
resolves being read at the table, an order was made that they should be taken into consideration
on a certain day, when the order was again put off, and in the interim the parliament was prorogued.
While the committee deliberated upon this affair, leave was given to prepare a bill for preventing
tenants, under a certain yearly rent, from gaining settlements in any particular parish, by
being there rated in any land-tax assessment, and paying for the landlord the money so charged.
This order was afterwards discharged; and another bill brought in to prevent any person from
gaining a settlement, by being rated by virtue of an act of parliament for granting an aid
to his majesty by a land-tax, and paying the same. The bill was accordingly presented, read,
committed, and passed the lower house; but among the lords it miscarried. It can never be expected
that the poor will be managed with economy and integrity, while the execution of the laws relating
to their maintenance is left in the hands of low tradesmen, who derive private advantage from
supplying them with necessaries, and often favour the imposition of one another with the most
scandalous collusion. This is an evil which will never be remedied, until persons of independent
fortune, and unblemished integrity, actuated by a spirit of true patriotism, shall rescue their
fellow-citizens from the power of such interested miscreants, by taking the poor into their
own management and protection. Instead of multiplying laws with respect to the settlement and
management of the poor, which serve only to puzzle and perplex the parish and peace officers,
it would become the sagacity of the legislature to take some effectual precautions to prevent
the increase of paupers and vagrants, which is become an intolerable nuisance to the commonwealth.
Towards this salutary end, surely nothing would more contribute than a reformation of the police,
that would abolish those infamous places of entertainment, which swarm in every corner of the
metropolis, seducing people of all ranks to extravagance, profligacy, and ruin; and would restrict
within due bounds the number of public-houses, which are augmented to an enormous degree, affording
so many asylums for riot and debauchery, and corrupting the morals of the common people to
such a pitch of licentious indecency, as must be a reproach to every civilized nation. Let
it not be affirmed, to the disgrace of Great Britain, that such receptacles of vice and impurity
subsist under the connivance of the government, according to the narrow views and confined
speculation of those shallow politicians, who imagine that the revenue is increased in proportion
to the quantity of strong liquors consumed in such infamous recesses of intemperance. Were
this in reality the case, that administration would deserve to be branded with eternal infamy,
which could sacrifice to such abase consideration the health, the lives, and the morals of
their fellow-creatures: but nothing can be more fallacious than the supposition, that the revenue
of any government can be increased by the augmented intemperance of the people; for intemperance
is the bane of industry, as well as of population; and what the government gains in the articles
of the duty on malt, and the excise upon liquors, will always be greatly overbalanced by the
loss in other articles, arising from the diminution of hands, and the neglect of labour.

REGULATION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

Exclusive of the bills that were actually prepared, though they did not pass in the course
of the session, the commons deliberated on other important subjects, which, however, were not
finally discussed. In the beginning of the session, a committee being appointed to resume the
inquiry touching the regulation of weights and measures, a subject we have mentioned in the
history of the preceding session, the box which contained a troy pound weight, locked up by
order of the house, was again produced by the clerk in whose custody it had been deposited.
This affair being carefully investigated, the committee agreed to fourteen resolutions. [490]
[See note 3 T, at the end of this Vol.] In the meantime, it was ordered that all the weights
referred to in the report, should be delivered to the clerk of the house, to be locked up and
brought forth occasionally.

THE FOUNDLING HOSPITAL.

The house of commons, among other articles of domestic economy, bestowed some attention on
the hospital for foundlings, which was now, more than ever, become a matter of national consideration.
The accounts relating to this charity having been demanded, and subjected to the inspection
of the members, were, together with the king's recommendation, referred to the committee of
supply, where they produced the resolutions which we have already specified among the other
grants of the year. The house afterwards resolved itself into a committee to deliberate on
the state of the hospital, and examine its accounts. On the third day of May, their resolutions
were reported to the following effect: that the appointing, by the governors and guardians
of the said hospital, places in the several counties, ridings, or divisions in this kingdom,
for the first reception of exposed and deserted young children, would be attended with many
evil consequences; and that the conveying of children from the country to the said hospital
is attended with many evil consequences, and ought to be prevented. A bill was ordered to be
brought in, founded upon this last resolution, but never presented; therefore the inquiry produced
no effect. Notwithstanding the institution of this charity, for the support of which great
sums are yearly levied on the public, it does not appear that the bills of mortality, respecting
new-born children, are decreased, nor the shocking crime of infant-murder rendered less frequent
than heretofore. It may, therefore, not be improperly styled a heavy additional tax for the
propagation of bastardy, and the encouragement of idleness among the common people; besides
the tendency it has to extinguish the feelings of the heart, and dissolve those family ties
of blood by which the charities are connected. In the month of March, leave was given to bring
in a bill for the more effectual preventing of the melting down and exporting the gold and
silver coin of the kingdom, and the persons were nominated to prepare it; but the bill never
appeared, and no further inquiry was made about the matter. Perhaps it was supposed that such
a measure might be thought an encroachment on the prerogative of the crown, which hath always
exercised the power of fixing the standard, and regulating the currency of the coin. Perhaps
such a step was deferred on account of the war, during which a great quantity of gold and silver
was necessarily exported to the continent, for the support of the allies and armies in the
pay of Great Britain. The legislature, however, would do well to consider this eternal maxim
in computation, that when a greater quantity of bullion is exported, in waste, than can be
replaced by commerce, the nation must be hastening to a state of insolvency. Over and above
these proceedings in this session of parliament, it may not be unnecessary to mention several
messages which were sent by the king to the house of commons. That relating to the vote of
credit we have already specified in our account of the supply. Both these messages were referred
to the committee of supply, and produced the resolutions upon each subject which we have already
explained. The message relating to a projected invasion by the enemies of Great Britain, we
shall particularize in its proper place, when we come to record the circumstances and miscarriage
of that design. In the meantime, it may not be improper to observe, that the thanks of the
house of commons were voted and given to admiral Boscawen and major-general Amherst, for the
services they had done their king and country in North America; and the same compliment was
paid to admiral Osborne, for the success of his cruise in the Mediterranean.

The session was closed on the second day of June, with a speech to both houses from the commissioners
appointed by his majesty for that purpose. In this harangue the parliament was given to understand,
that the king approved of their conduct, and returned them his thanks for their condescension;
that the hopes he had conceived of their surmounting the difficulties which lay in the way,
were founded on the wisdom, zeal, and affection of so good a parliament, and that his expectations
were fully answered; that they had considered the war in all its parts, and notwithstanding
its long continuance, through the obstinacy of the enemy, had made such provision for the many
different operations as ought to convince the adversaries of Great Britain, that it would be
for their interest, as well as for the ease and relief of all Europe, to embrace equitable
and honourable terms of accommodation. They were told that, by their assistance, the combined
army in Germany had been completed; powerful squadrons, as well as numerous bodies of land-forces,
were employed in America, in order to maintain the British rights and possessions, and annoy
the enemy in the most sensible maimer in that country: that, as France was making considerable
preparations in her different ports, he had taken care to put his fleet at home in the best
condition, both of strength and situation, to guard against and repel any attempts that might
be meditated against his kingdoms: that all his measures had been directed to assert the honour
of his crown; to preserve the essential interests of his faithful subjects; to support the
cause of the protestant religion, and public liberty: he therefore trusted that the uprightness
of his intentions would draw down the blessing of heaven upon his endeavours. He expressed
his hope, that the precautions they had taken to prevent and correct the excesses of the privateers
would produce the desired effect: a consideration which the king had much at heart; for, though
sensible of the utility of that service, when under proper regulations, he was determined to
do his utmost to prevent any injuries or hardships which might be sustained by the subjects
of neutral powers, as far as might be practicable and consistent with his majesty's just right
to hinder the trade of his enemies from being collusively and fraudulently covered. He not
only thanked the commons, but applauded the firmness and vigour with which they had acted,
as well as their prudence in judging, that notwithstanding the present burdens, the making
ample provision for carrying on the war was the most probable means to bring it to an honourable
and happy conclusion. He assured them that no attention should be wanting, on his part, for
the faithful application of what had been granted. They were informed he had nothing further
to desire, but that they would carry down the same good dispositions, and propagate them in
their several counties, which they had shown in their proceedings during the session. These
declarations being pronounced, the parliament was prorogued.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

PREPARATIONS FOR WAR.

The people of England, provoked on one hand by the intrigues, the hostilities and menaces of
France, and animated on the other by the pride and triumph of success, which never fails to
reconcile them to difficulties, howsoever great, and expense, however enormous, at this period
breathed nothing but war, and discoursed about nothing but new plans of conquest. We have seen
how liberally the parliament bestowed the nation's money; and the acquiescence of the subjects
in general under the additional burdens which had been imposed, appeared in the remarkable
eagerness with which they embarked in the subscription planned by the legislature; in the vigorous
assistance they contributed towards manning the navy, recruiting the army, and levying additional
forces; and the warlike spirit which began to diffuse itself through all ranks of the people,
This was a spirit which the ministry carefully cherished and cultivated, for the support of
the war, which, it must bo owned, was prosecuted with an ardour and efficacy peculiar to the
present administration. True it is, the German war had been for some time adopted as an object
of importance by the British councils, and a resolution was taken to maintain it without flinching:
at the same time, it must be allowed, that this consideration had not hitherto weakened the
attention of the ministry to the operations in America, where alone the war may be said to
have been carried on and prosecuted on British principles, so as to distress the enemy in their
most tender part, and at the same time, acquire the most substantial advantages to the subjects
of Britain. For these two purposes, every preparation was made that sagacity could suggest,
or vigour execute. The navy was repaired and augmented; and, in order to man the different
squadrons, the expedient of pressing, that disgrace to a British administration, was practised
both by land and water with extraordinary rigour and vivacity. A proclamation was issued, offering
a considerable bounty for every seaman and every landman that should by a certain day enter
voluntarily into the service. As an additional encouragement to this class of people, the king
promised his pardon to all seamen who had deserted from their respective ships to which they
belonged, provided they should return to their duty by the third day of July; but at the same
time he declared, that those who should neglect this opportunity, at a time when their country
so much required their service, would, upon being apprehended, incur the penalty of a court-martial,
and if convicted, be deemed unfit objects of the royal mercy. All justices of the peace, mayors,
and magistrates of corporations throughout Great Britain, were commanded to make particular
search for straggling seamen fit for the service, and to send all that should be found to the
nearest sea-port, that they might be sent on board by the sea-officer there commanding. Other
methods, more gentle and effectual, were taken to levy and recruit the land-forces. New regiments
were raised, on his majesty's promise that every man should be entitled to his discharge at
the end of three years, and the premiums for enlisting were increased. Over and above these
indulgences, considerable bounties were offered and given by cities, towns, corporations, and
even by individuals, so universally were the people possessed with a spirit of chivalry and
adventure. The example was set by the metropolis, where the common-council resolved, that voluntary
subscriptions should be received in the chamber of London, to be appropriated as bounty-money
to such persons as should engage in his majesty's service. The city subscribed a considerable
sum for that purpose; and a committee of aldermen and commoners was appointed to attend at
Guildhall, to receive and apply the subscriptions. Asa further encouragement to volunteers,
they moreover resolved, that every person so entering should be entitled to the freedom of
the city, at the expiration of three years, or sooner if the war should be brought to a conclusion.
These resolutions being communicated to the king, he was pleased to signify his approbation,
and return his thanks to the city, in a letter from the secretary of state to the lord-mayor.
Large sums were immediately subscribed by different companies, and some private persons; and,
in imitation of the capital, bounties were offered by many different communities in every quarter
of the United Kingdom. At the same time, such care and diligence were used in disciplining
the militia, that, before the close of the year, the greater part of those truly constitutional
battalions rivalled the regular troops in the perfection of their exercise, and seemed to be,
in all respects, as fit for actual service.

DEATH OF THE PRINCESS OF ORANGE, &c.

Before we proceed to record the transactions of the campaign that succeeded these preparations,
we shall take notice of some domestic events, which, though not very important in themselves,
may nevertheless claim a place in the History of England. In the beginning of the year, the
court of London was overwhelmed with affliction at the death of the princess dowager of Orange
and Nassau, governante of the United Provinces in the minority of her son, the present stadtholder.
She was the eldest daughter of his Britannic majesty, possessed of many personal accomplishments
and exemplary virtues; pious, moderate, sensible, and circumspect. She had exercised her authority
with equal sagacity and resolution, respected even by those who were no friends to the house
of Orange, and died with great fortitude and resignation.*

     * Feeling her end approaching, she delivered a key to one of
     her attendants, directing him to fetch two papers, which she
     signed with her own hand. One was a contract of marriage
     between her daughter and the prince of Nassau Weilburgh; the
     other was a letter to the states-general, beseeching them to
     consent to this marriage, and preserve inviolate the
     regulations she had made touching the education and tutelage
     of the young stadtholder. These two papers being signed and
     sealed, she sent for her children, exhorted them to make
     proper improvements on the education they had received, and
     to live in harmony with each other. Then she implored Heaven
     to shower its blessings on them both, and embraced them with
     the most affecting marks of maternal tenderness. She
     afterwards continued to converse calmly and deliberately
     with her friends, and in a few hours expired.

In her will she appointed the king her father, and the princess dowager of Orange her mother-in-law,
honorary tutors, and prince Louis of Brunswick acting tutor to her children. In the morning
after her decease, the states-general and the states of Holland were extraordinarily assembled,
and having received notice of this event, proceeded to confirm the regulations which had been
made for the minority of the stadtholder. Prince Louis of Brunswick was invited to assist in
the assembly of Holland, where he took the oaths, as representing the captain-general of the
union. Then he communicated to the assembly the act by which the princess had appointed him
guardian of her children. He was afterwards invited to the assembly of the states-general,
who agreed to the resolution of Holland, with respect to his guardianship; and in the evening
the different colleges of the government sent formal deputations to the young stadtholder,
and the princess Caroline, his sister, in whose names and presence they were received, and
answered by their guardian and representative. A formal intimation of the death of the princess
was communicated to the king her father, in a pathetic letter, by the states-general; who condoled
with him on the irreparable loss which he as well as they had sustained by this melancholy
event, and assured him they would employ all their care and attention in securing and defending
the rights and interest of the young stadtholder and the princess his sister, whom they considered
as the children of the republic. The royal family of England suffered another disaster in the
course of this year, by the decease of the princess Elizabeth-Caroline, second daughter of
his late royal highness Frederick prince of Wales, a lady of the most amiable character, who
died at Kew in the month of September, before she had attained the eighteenth year of her age.

EXAMPLES MADE OF PIRATES.

Certain privateers continuing their excesses at sea, and rifling neutral ships without distinction
or authority, the government resolved to vindicate the honour of the nation, by making examples
of those pirates, who, as fast as they could be detected and secured, were brought to trial,
and upon conviction sacrificed to justice. While these steps were taken to rescue the nation
from the reproach of violence and rapacity, which her neighbours had urged with such eagerness,
equal spirit was exerted in convincing neutral powers that they should not with impunity contravene
the law of nations, in favouring the enemies of Great Britain. A great number of causes were
tried relating to disputed captures, and many Dutch vessels, with their cargoes, were condemned,
after a fair hearing, notwithstanding the loud clamours of that people, and the repeated remonstrances
of the states-general.

The reputation of the English was not so much affected by the irregularities of her privateers,
armed for rapine, as by the neglect of internal police, and an ingredient of savage ferocity
mingled in the national character; an ingredient that appeared but too conspicuous in the particulars
of several shocking murders brought to light about this period.--One Halsey, who commanded
a merchant ship in the voyage from Jamaica to England, having conceived some personal dislike
to a poor sailor, insulted him with such abuse, exposed him to such hardships, and punished
him with such wantonness of barbarity, that the poor wretch leaped overboard in despair. His
inhuman tyrant envying him that death, which would have rescued a miserable object from his
brutality, plunged into the sea after him, and brought him on board, declaring, he should not
escape so while there were any torments left to inflict. Accordingly, he exercised his tyranny
upon him with redoubled rigour, until the poor creature expired, in consequence of the inhuman
treatment he had sustained. This savage ruffian was likewise indicted for the murder of another
mariner, but being convicted on the first trial, the second was found unnecessary, and the
criminal suffered death according to the law, which is perhaps too mild to malefactors convicted
of such aggravated cruelty.--Another barbarous murder was perpetrated in the country, near
Birmingham, upon a sheriff's officer, by the sons of one Darby, whose effects the bailiff had
seized, on a distress for rent. The two young assassins, encouraged by the father, attacked
the unhappy wretch with clubs, and mangled him in a terrible manner, so that he hardly retained
any signs of life. Not contented with this cruel execution, they stripped him naked, and dragging
him out of the house, scourged him with a waggoner's whip, until the flesh was cut from the
bones. In this miserable condition he was found weltering in his blood, and conveyed to a neighbouring
house, where he immediately expired. The three barbarians were apprehended, after having made
a desperate resistance. They were tried, convicted, and executed; the sons were hung in chains,
and the body of the father dissected.--The widow of a timber-merchant in Rotherhithe being
cruelly murdered in her own house, Mary Edmonson, a young woman, her niece, ran out into the
street with her arms cut across, and gave the alarm, declaring her aunt had been assassinated
by four men, who forced their way into the house, and that she (the niece) had received those
wounds in attempting to defend her relation. According to the circumstances that appeared,
this unnatural wretch had cut the throat of her aunt and benefactress with a case-knife, then
dragged the body from the wash-house to the parlour; that she had stolen a watch and some silver
spoons, and concealed them, together with the knife and her own apron, which was soaked with
the blood of her parent. After having acted this horrid tragedy, the bare recital of which
the humane reader will not peruse without horror, she put on another apron, and wounded her
own flesh, the better to conceal her guilt. Notwithstanding these precautions she was suspected,
and committed to prison. Being brought to trial, she was convicted and condemned upon circumstantial
evidence, and finally executed on Kennington-common, though she denied the fact to the last
moment of her life. At the place of execution she behaved with great composure, and, after
having spent some minutes in devotion, protested she was innocent of the crime laid to her
charge. What seemed to corroborate this protestation, was the condition and character of the
young woman, who had been educated in a sphere above the vulgar, and maintained a reputation
without reproach in the country, where she was actually betrothed to a clergyman. On the other
hand, the circumstances that appeared against her almost amounted to a certainty; though nothing
weaker than proof positive ought to determine a jury in capital cases to give a verdict against
the person accused. After all, this is one of those problematic events which elude the force
of all evidence, and serve to confound the pride of Iranian reason.--A miscreant, whose name
was Haines, having espoused the daughter of a farmer in the neighbourhood of Gloucester, who
possessed a small estate, which he intended to divide among seven children, was so abandoned
as to form the design of poisoning the whole family, that by virtue of his wife he might enjoy
the whole inheritance. For the execution of this infernal scheme, he employed his own father
to purchase a quantity of arsenic; part of which he administered to three of the children,
who were immediately seized with the dreadful symptoms produced by this mineral, and the eldest
expired. He afterwards mixed it with three apple-cakes, which he bought for the purpose, and
presented to the three other children, who underwent the same violence of operation which had
proved fatal to the eldest brother. The instantaneous effects of the poison created a suspicion
of Haines, who, being examined, the whole scene of villany stood disclosed. Nevertheless, the
villain found means to escape.--The uncommon spirit of assassination which raged at this period,
seemed to communicate itself even to foreigners who breathed English air. Five French prisoners
confined on board the king's ship the Royal Oak, were convicted of having murdered one Jean
de Manaux, their countryman and fellow-prisoner, in revenge for his having discovered that
they had forged passes to facilitate their escape. Exasperated at this detection, they seized
this unfortunate informer in the place of their confinement, gagged his mouth, stripped him
naked, tied him with a strong cord to a ring-bolt, and scourged his body with the most brutal
perseverance. By dint of struggling, the poor wretch disengaged himself from the cord with
which he had been tied: then they finished the tragedy, by leaping and stamping on his breast,
till the chest was broke, and he expired. They afterwards severed the body into small pieces,
and these they conveyed at different times into the sea, through the funnel of a convenience
to which they had access: but one of the other prisoners gave information of the murder; in
consequence of which they were secured, brought to trial, condemned, and punished with death.--Nor
were the instances of cruel assassination which prevailed at this juncture confined to Great
Britain. At the latter end of the foregoing year, an atrocious massacre was perpetrated by
two Genoese mariners upon the master and crew of an English vessel, among whom they were enrolled.
These monsters of cruelty were in different watches, a circumstance that favoured the execution
of the horrid plan they had concerted. When one of them retired to rest with his fellows of
the watch, consisting of the mate and two seamen, he waited till they were fast asleep, and
then butchered them all with a knife. Having so far succeeded without discovery, he returned
to the deck, and communicated the exploit to his associate: then they suddenly attacked the
master of the vessel, and cleft his head with a hatchet, which they likewise used in murdering
the man that stood at the helm; a third was likewise despatched, and no Englishman remained
alive but the master's son, a boy, who lamented his father's death with incessant tears and
cries for three days, at the expiration of which he was likewise sacrificed, because the assassins
were disturbed by his clamour. This barbarous scene was acted within sixty leagues of the rock
of Lisbon; but the vessel was taken within the capes Ortugal and Finisterre, by the captain
of the French privateer called La Favourite, who seeing the deck stained with blood, and finding
all the papers of the ship destroyed, began to suspect that the master and crew had been murdered.
He accordingly taxed them with the murder, and they confessed the particulars. The privateer
touched at Vigo, where the captain imparted this detail to the English consul; but the prize,
with the two villains on board, was sent to Bayonne in France, where they were brought to condign
punishment.

MURDER OF DANIEL CLARKE.

We shall close this register of blood with the account of a murder remarkable in all its circumstances,
for which a person, called Eugene Aram, suffered at York, in the course of this year. This
man, who exercised the profession of a schoolmaster at Knaresborough, had, as far back as the
year one thousand seven hundred and forty-five, been concerned with one Houseman, in robbing
and murdering Daniel Clarke, whom they had previously persuaded to borrow a considerable quantity
of valuable effects from different persons in the neighbourhood, on false pretences, that he
might retire with the booty. He had accordingly filled a sack with these particulars, and began
his retreat with his two perfidious associates, who suddenly fell upon him, deprived him of
life, and, having buried the body in a cave, took possession of the plunder. Though Clarke
disappeared at once in such a mysterious manner, no suspicion fell on the assassins; and Aram,
who was the chief contriver and agent in the murder, moved his habitation to another part of
the country. In the summer of the present year, Houseman being employed, among other labourers,
in repairing the public highway, they, in digging for gravel by the road side, discovered the
skeleton of a human creature, which the majority supposed to be the bones of Daniel Clarke.
This opinion was no sooner broached, than Houseman, as it were by some supernatural impulse
which he could not resist, declared that it was not the skeleton of Clarke, inasmuch as his
body had been interred at a place called St. Robert's Cave, where they would find it, with
the head turned to a certain corner. He was immediately apprehended, examined, admitted as
evidence for the crown, and discovered the particulars of the murder. The skeleton of Clarke
being found exactly in the place and manner he had described, Eugene Aram, who now acted as
usher to a grammar-school in the county of Norfolk, was secured, and brought to trial at the
York assizes. There, his own wife corroborating the testimony of Houseman, he was found guilty,
and received sentence of death; notwithstanding a very artful and learned defence, in which
he proved, from argument and example, the danger of convicting a man upon circumstantial evidence.
Finding all his remonstrances ineffectual, he recommended himself in pathetic terms to the
king's mercy; and if ever murder was entitled to indulgence, perhaps it might have been extended
not improperly to this man, whose genius, in itself prodigious, might have exerted itself in
works of general utility. He had, in spite of all the disadvantages attending low birth and
straitened circumstances, by the dint of his own capacity and inclination, made considerable
progress in mathematics and philosophy, acquired all the languages ancient and modern, and
executed part of a Celtic dictionary, which, had he lived to finish it, might have thrown some
essential light upon the origin and obscurities of the European history. Convinced, at last,
that he had nothing to hope from the clemency of the government, he wrote a short poem in defence
of suicide; and, on the day fixed for his execution, opened the veins of his left arm with
a razor, which he had concealed for that purpose. Though he was much weakened by the effusion
of blood, before this attempt was discovered, yet, as the instrument had missed the artery,
he did not expire until he was carried to the gibbet, and underwent the sentence of the law.
His body was conveyed to Knaresborough-forest, and hung in chains, near the place where the
murder was perpetrated.--These are some of the most remarkable that appeared amongst many other
instances of homicide: a crime that prevails to a degree alike deplorable and surprising, even
in a nation renowned for compassion and placability. But this will generally be the case among
people whose passions, naturally impetuous, are ill restrained by laws, and the regulations
of civil society; which the licentious do not fear, and the wicked hope to evade.

MAJORITY OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.

The prince of Wales having, in the beginning of June, entered the two-and-twentieth year of
his age, the anniversary of his birth was celebrated with great rejoicings at court, and the
king received compliments of congratulation on the majority of a prince, who seemed born to
fulfil the hopes, and complete the happiness, of Great Britain. The city of London presented
an address to the king on this occasion, replete with expressions of loyalty and affection,
assuring his majesty, that no hostile threats could intimidate a people animated by the love
of liberty, who, confiding in the Divine Providence, and in his majesty's experienced wisdom
and vigorous councils, were resolved to exert their utmost efforts towards enabling their sovereign
to repel the insults and defeat the attempts made by the ancient enemies of his crown and kingdom.
Congratulations of the same kind were offered by other cities, towns, corporations, and communities,
who vied with each other in professions of attachment; and, indeed, there was not the least
trace of disaffection perceivable at this juncture in any part of the island.

A NEW BRIDGE AT BLACKFRIARS.

So little were the citizens of London distressed by the expense, or incommoded by the operations
of the war, that they found leisure to plan, and funds to execute, magnificent works of art,
for the ornament of the metropolis, and the convenience of commerce. They had obtained an act
of parliament, empowering them to build a new bridge over the Thames, from Blackfriars to the
opposite shore, about midway between those of London and Westminster. Commissioners were appointed
to put this act in execution; and, at a court of common-council, it was resolved that a sum
not exceeding one hundred and forty-four thousand pounds should be forthwith raised, within
the space of eight years, by instalments, not exceeding thirty thousand pounds in one year,
to be paid into the chamber of London; that the persons advancing the money should have an
interest at the rate of four pounds per cent, per annum, to be paid half-yearly by the chamberlain,
yet redeemable at the expiration of the first ten years; and that the chamberlain should affix
the city's seal to such instruments as the committee might think fit to give for securing the
payment of the said annuities. Such were the first effectual steps taken towards the execution
of a laudable measure, which met with the most obstinate opposition in the sequel, from the
narrow views of particular people, as well as from the prejudice of party.

FIRE IN CORNHILL.

The spirit that now animated the citizens of London was such as small difficulties did not
retard, and even considerable losses could not discourage. In the month of November the city
was exposed to a dangerous conflagration, kindled in the night by accident in the neighbourhood
of the Royal Exchange, which burned with great fury, and, notwithstanding the assistance of
the firemen and engines, employed under the personal direction of the magistracy, consumed
a great number of houses, and damaged many more. That whole quarter of the town was filled
with consternation: some individuals were beggared; one or two perished in the flames, and
some were buried in the ruins of the houses that sunk under the disaster.

METHOD CONTRIVED TO FIND OUT THE LONGITUDE.

The ferment of mind so peculiar to the natives of Great Britain, excited by a strange mixture
of genius and caprice, passion and philosophy, study and conjecture, produced at this period
some flowers of improvement, in different arts and sciences, that seemed to promise fruit of
public utility. Several persons invented methods for discovering the longitude at sea, that
great desideratum in navigation, for the ascertainment of which so many nations have offered
a public recompense, and in the investigation of which so many mathematical heads have been
disordered. Some of those who now appeared candidates for the prize deserved encouragement
for the ingenuity of their several systems; but he who seemed to enjoy' the pre-eminence in
the opinion and favour of the public was Mr. Irwin, a native of Ireland, who contrived a chair
so artfully poised, that a person sitting in it on board a ship, even in a rough sea, can,
through a telescope, observe the immersion and emersion of Jupiter's satellites, without being
interrupted or incommoded by the motion of the vessel. This gentleman was favoured with the
assistance and protection of commodore lord Howe, in whose presence the experiment was tried
in several ships at sea with such success, that he granted a certificate, signifying his approbation;
and in consequence of this, Mr. Irwin is said to have obtained a considerable reward from the
board of admiralty.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

INSTALLATION AT OXFORD.

The people of England, happy in their situation, felt none of the storms of war and desolation
which ravaged the neighbouring countries; but, enriched by a surprising augmentation of commerce,
enjoyed all the security of peace, and all the pleasures of taste and affluence. The university
of Oxford having conferred the office of their chancellor, vacant by the death of the earl
of Arran, upon another nobleman of equal honour and integrity, namely, the earl of Westmoreland,
he made a public entrance into that celebrated seat of learning with great magnificence, and
was installed amidst the Encaenia, which were celebrated with such classical elegance of pomp,
as might have rivalled the chief Roman festival of the Augustan age. The chancellor elect was
attended by a splendid train of the nobility and persons of distinction. The city of Oxford
was filled with a vast concourse of strangers. The processions were contrived with taste, and
conducted with decorum. The installation was performed with the most striking solemnity. The
congratulatory verses and public speeches breathed the spirit of old Rome; and the ceremony
was closed by Dr. King, that venerable sage of St. Mary Hall, who pronounced an oration in
praise of the new chancellor with all the flow of Tully, animated by the fire of Demosthenes.

We shall conclude the remarkable incidents of this year:*

     * In the spring of the year the liberal arts sustained a
     lamentable loss in the death of George Frederick Handel, the
     most celebrated master in music which this age had produced.
     He was by birth a German; but had studied in Italy, and
     afterwards settled in England, where he met with the most
     favourable reception, and resided above half a century,
     universally admired for his stupendous genius in the sublime
     parts of musical composition.

     One would be apt to imagine, that there was something in the
     constitution of the air at this period, which was
     particularly unfavourable to old age; inasmuch as, in the
     compass of a few months, the following persons, remarkable
     for their longevity, died in the kingdom of Scotland.
     William Barnes, who had been above seventy years a servant
     in the family of Brodie, died there, at the age of one
     hundred and nine. Catherine Mackenzie died in Ross-shire, at
     the age of one hundred and eighteen. Janet Blair, deceased
     at Monemusk, in the shire of Aberdeen, turned of one
     hundred and twelve. Alexander Stephens, in Banffshire, at
     the age of one hundred and eight. Janet Harper, of
     Bainsholes, at the age of one hundred and seven. Daniel
     Cameron, in Rannaeh, married when he was turned of one
     hundred, and survived his marriage thirty years.

These are detached from the prosecution of the war, with the detail of an event equally surprising
and deplorable:--A sloop called the Dolphin, bound from the Canaries to New York, met with
such unfavourable weather, that she was detained one hundred and sixty-five days in the passage,
and the provision of the ship was altogether expended before the first fifty days were elapsed.
The wretched crew had devoured their dog, cat, and all their shoes on board: at length, being
reduced to the utmost extremity, they agreed to cast lots for their lives, that the body of
him upon whom the lot should fall might serve for some time to support the survivors. The wretched
victim was one Antoni Ga-latia, a Spanish gentleman and passenger. Him they shot with a musket;
and having cut off his head, threw it overboard; but the entrails and the rest of the carcase
they greedily devoured. This horrid banquet having, as it were, fleshed the famished crew,
they began to talk of another sacrifice, from which, however, they were diverted by the influence
and remonstrances of their captain, who prevailed upon them to be satisfied with a miserable
allowance to each per diem, cut from a pair of leather breeches found in the cabin. Upon this
calamitous pittance, reinforced with the grass which grew plentifully upon the deck, these
poor objects made shift to subsist for twenty days, at the expiration of which they were relieved,
and taken on board by one captain Bradshaw, who chanced to fall in with them at sea. By this
time the whole crew, consisting of seven men, were so squalid and emaciated, as to exhibit
an appearance at once piteous and terrible; and so reduced in point of strength, that it was
found necessary to use ropes and tackle for hoisting them from one ship to the other. The circumstance
of the lot falling upon the Spaniard, who was the only foreigner on board, encourages a suspicion
that foul play was offered to this unfortunate stranger; but the most remarkable part of this
whole incident is, that the master and crew could not contrive some sort of tackle to catch
fish, with which the sea every where abounds, and which, no doubt, might be caught with the
help of a little ingenuity. If implements of this kind were provided in every ship, they would
probably prevent all those tragical events at sea that are occasioned by famine.

CAPTURES MADE BY CRUISERS.

Previous to the more capital operations in war, we shall particularize the most remarkable
captures that were made upon the enemy by single ships of war, during the course of this summer
and autumn. In the month of February, a French privateer belonging to Granville, called the
Marquis de Marigny, having on board near two hundred men, and mounted with twenty cannon, was
taken by captain Parker, commander of his majesty's ship the Montague; who likewise made prize
of a smaller armed vessel, from Dunkirk, of eight cannon and sixty men. About the same period,
captain Graves, of the Unicorn, brought in the Moras privateer, of St. Maloes, carrying two
hundred men, and two-and-twenty cannon. Two large merchant-ships, laden on the French king's
account for Martinique, with provisions, clothing, and arms, for the troops on that island,
were taken by captain Lendrick, commander of the Brilliant; and an English transport from St.
John's, having four hundred French prisoners on board, perished near the Western islands. Within
the circle of the same month, a large French ship from St. Domingo, richly laden, fell in with
the Favourite ship of war, and was carried into Gibraltar.

In the month of February, captain Hood, of his majesty's frigate the Vestal, belonging to a
small squadron commanded by admiral Holmes, who had sailed for the West Indies in January,
being advanced a considerable way ahead of the fleet, descried and gave chase to a sail, which
proved to be a French frigate called the Bellona, of two hundred and twenty men, and two-and-thirty
great guns, commanded by the count de Beauhonoire. Captain Hood, having made a signal to the
admiral, continued the chase until he advanced within half musket-shot of the enemy, and then
poured in a broadside, which was immediately retorted. The engagement thus begun was maintained
with great vigour on both sides for the space of four hours; at the expiration of which the
Bellona struck, after having lost all her masts and rigging, together with about forty men
killed in the action. Nor was the victor in a much better condition. Thirty men were killed
and wounded on board the Vestal. Immediately after the enemy submitted, all her rigging being
destroyed by the shot, the topmasts fell overboard; and she was otherwise so much damaged,
that she could not proceed on her voyage. Captain Hood, therefore, returned with his prize
to Spithead; and afterwards met with a gracious reception from his majesty, on account of the
valour and conduct he had displayed on this occasion. The Bellona had sailed in January from
the island of Martinique, along with the Florissant, and another French frigate, from which
she had been separated in the passage. Immediately after this exploit, captain Elliot, of the
AEolus frigate, accompanied by the Isis, made prize of a French ship, the Mignonne, of twenty
guns, and one hundred and forty men, one of four frigates employed as convoy to a large fleet
of merchant-ships, near the island of Rhé.

In the month of March, the English frigates the Southampton and Melampe, commanded by the captains
Gilchrist and Hotham, being at sea to the northward on a cruise, fell in with the Danaë, a
French ship of forty cannon, and three hundred and thirty men, which was engaged by captain
Hotham in a ship of half the force, who maintained the battle a considerable time with admirable
gallantry, before his consort could come to his assistance. As they fought in the dark, captain
Gilchrist was obliged to lie by for some time, because he could not distinguish the one from
the other; but no sooner did the day appear, than he bore down upon the Danaë with his usual
impetuosity, and soon compelled her to surrender: she did not strike, however, until thirty
or forty of her men were slain; and the gallant captain Gilchrist received a grape-shot in
his shoulder, which, though it did not deprive him of life, yet rendered him incapable of future
service: a misfortune the more to be lamented, as it happened to a brave officer in the vigour
of his age, and in the midst of a sanguinary war, which might have afforded him many other
opportunities of signalizing his courage for the honour and advantage of his country. Another
remarkable exploit was achieved about the same juncture by captain Barrington, commander of
the ship Achilles, mounted with sixty cannon; who, to the westward of Cape Finisterre, encountered
a French ship of equal force, called the Count de Saint Florintin, bound from Cape François,
on the island of Hispaniola, to Rochefort, under the command of the sieur de Montay, who was
obliged to strike, after a close and obstinate engagement, in which he himself was mortally
wounded, a great number of his men slain, and his ship so damaged, that she was with difficulty
brought into Falmouth. Captain Barrington obtained the victory at the expense of about five-and-twenty
men killed and wounded, and all his rigging, which the enemy's shot rendered useless. Two small
privateers from Dunkirk were also taken: one called the Marquis de Bareil, by the Brilliant,
which carried her into Kin-sale in Ireland; the other called the Carrilloneur, which struck
to the Grace cutter, assisted by the boats of the ship Rochester, commanded by captain Duff,
who sent her into the Downs.

About the latter end of March, captain Samuel Falkner, in the ship Windsor, of sixty guns,
cruising to the westward, discovered four large ships to leeward, which, when he approached
them, formed the line of battle ahead, in order to give him a warm reception. He accordingly
closed with the sternmost ship, which sustained his fire about an hour: then the other three
bearing away with all the sail they could carry, she struck her colours, and was conducted
to Lisbon. She proved to be the Duc de Chartres, pierced for sixty cannon, though at that time
carrying no more than four-and-twenty, with a complement of three hundred men, about thirty
of whom were killed in the action. She belonged, with the other three that escaped, to the
French East India company, was laden with gunpowder and naval stores, and bound for Pondicherry.
Two privateers, called Le Chasseur and Le Conquérant, the one from Dunkirk, and the other from
Cherbourg, were taken and carried into Plymouth by captain Hughes, of his majesty's frigate
the Tamer. A third, called the Despatch, from Morlaix, was brought into Penzance by the Diligence
sloop, under the command of captain Eastwood. A fourth, called the Basque, from Bayonne, furnished
with two-and-twenty guns, and above two hundred men, fell into the hands of captain Parker
of the Brilliant, who conveyed her into Plymouth. Captain Antrobus of the Surprise, took the
Vieux, a privateer of Bourdeaux; and a fifth, from Dunkirk, struck to captain Knight of the
Liverpool, off Yarmouth. In the month of May, a French frigate called the Arethusa, mounted
with two-and-thirty cannon, manned with a large complement of hands under the command of the
marquis de Vaudreuil, submitted to two British frigates, the Venus and the Thames, commanded
by the captains Harrison and Colby, after a warm engagement, in which sixty men were killed
and wounded on the side of the enemy. In the beginning of June, an armed ship belonging to
Dunkirk was brought into the Downs by captain Angel, of the Stag; and a privateer of force,
called the Countess de la Serre, was subdued and taken, after an obstinate action, by captain
Moore, of his majesty's ship the Adventure.

PRIZES TAKEN IN THE WEST INDIES.

Several armed ships of the enemy, and rich prizes, were taken in the West Indies, particularly
two French frigates, and two Dutch ships with French commodities, all richly laden, by some
of the ships of the squadron which vice-admiral Coats commanded on the Jamaica station. A fifth,
called the Velour, from St. Domingo, with a valuable cargo on board, being fortified with twenty
cannon, and above one hundred men, fell in with the Favourite sloop of war, under the command
of captain Edwards, who, after' art obstinate dispute, carried her in triumph to Gibraltar.
At St. Christopher's, in the West Indies, captain Collingwood, commander of the king's ship
the Crescent, attacked two French frigates, the Améthyste and Berkeley; the former of which
escaped, after a warm engagement, in which the Crescent's rigging was so much damaged that
she could not pursue; but the other was taken, and conveyed into the harbour of Basseterre.
Notwithstanding the vigilance and courage of the English cruisers in those seas, the French
privateers swarmed to such a degree, that in the course of this year they took above two hundred
sail of British ships, valued at six hundred thousand pounds sterling. This their success is
the more remarkable, as by this time the island of Guadaloupe was in possession of the English,
and commodore Moore commanded a numerous squadron in those very latitudes.

ENGAGEMENT BETWEEN THE HERCULES AND THE FLORISSANT.

In the beginning of October, the Hercules ship of war, mounted with seventy-four guns, under
the command of captain Porter, cruising in the chops of the channel, descried to windward a
large ship, which proved to be the Florissant, of the same force with the Hercules. Her commander,
perceiving the English ship giving chase, did not seem to decline the action, but bore down
upon her in a slanting direction, and the engagement began with great fury. In a little time,
the Hercules having lost her top-mast, and all her rigging being shot away, the enemy took
advantage of this disaster, made the best of his way, and was pursued till eight o'clock next
morning, when he escaped behind the isle of Oleron. Captain Porter was wounded in the head
with a grape-shot, and lost the use of one leg in the engagement.

HAVRE-DE-GRACE BOMBARDED.

Having taken notice of all the remarkable captures and exploits that were made and achieved
by single ships since the commencement of the present year, we shall now proceed to describe
the actions that were performed in this period by the different squadrons that constituted
the naval power of Great Britain. Intelligence having been received that the enemy meditated
an invasion upon some of the British territories, and that a number of flat-bottomed boats
were prepared at Havre-de-Grace, for the purpose of disembarking troops, rear-admiral Rodney
was, in the beginning of July, detached with a small squadron of ships and bombs to annoy and
overawe that part of the coast of France. He accordingly anchored in the road of Havre, and
made a disposition to execute the instructions he had received. The bomb vessels, being placed
in the narrow channel of the river leading to Ronfleur, began to throw their shells, and continued
the bombardment for two-and-fifty hours, without intermission, during which a numerous body
of French troops were employed in throwing up intrenchments, erecting new batteries, and firing
both with shot and shells upon the assailants. The town was set on fire in several places,
and burned with great fury; some of the boats were overturned, and a few of them reduced to
ashes, while the inhabitants forsook the place in the utmost consternation: nevertheless, the
damage done to the enemy was too inconsiderable to make amends for the expense of the armament,
and the loss of nineteen hundred shells and eleven hundred carcasses, which were expended in
this expedition. Bombardments of this kind are at best but expensive and unprofitable operations,
and may be deemed a barbarous method of prosecuting war, inasmuch as the damage falls upon
the wretched inhabitants, who have given no cause of offence, and who are generally spared
by a humane enemy, unless they have committed some particular act of provocation.

BOSCAWEN DEFEATS M. DE LA CLUE.

