"I beg your pardon, sir, but I do not agree with you in that--and for this reason," rejoined
the other.  "Just one man is responsible for most of our trouble.  He caused us to resign from
the Conference, he tried to steal our agents and our business when we were out and succeeded
in some pretty important cases, he got our branch manager away from us, and alienated some
of our best local brokers, and--I have no proof of this last and perhaps I should not discredit
my predecessor--but I can't help feeling that he induced some mutual friends of yours and his
to suggest Mr. Gunterson's name to you."

"No," said the President, shaking his head.  "The man who mentioned Gunterson to me is a real
friend of mine--it was merely his judgment that was at fault."

"Well, I'm glad to hear it," the other responded.  "But the point is this: is O'Connor likely
to stop now?  That's what we've got to consider."

"It is no particular concern of mine what Mr. O'Connor does or where he stops," said the President,
with magnificent but impractical dignity.

"Well, it is of mine," Smith retorted, "because I want to know what he's going to do next.
O'Connor has played several very shabby tricks on you and on the Guardian--things that must,
even in his own eyes, seem discreditable.  The fact that we know what a rascal he is doesn't
help us much if we just sit here with our hands folded.  And the fact that at last we have
begun to defend ourselves will not endear us to him the more--on the contrary it will make
him even more vicious toward us.  No, he won't stop where he is; we shall hear from him again."

Smith was possibly correct in his conclusion; but for the moment all was very quiet along the
Salamander battle front--if battle front it were.  So he went off to interview the vigilant
and ambitious Ferguson; and for four days the home office saw him no more.

In the many years during which the Guardian had conducted its sane and conservative business
life, it had gathered into its grasp a great many desirable adjuncts and aids to the smooth
and proper operation of a first-class fire insurance company.  Its agency plant, while not
one of the largest, was second to none in the character and ability of the agents themselves;
its force of office and field men was adequate; even its stationery was simple and dignified
and well adapted to the ordinary uses of the management.

Perhaps at no time had Mr. Wintermuth's good fortune served him better than when he secured
the Guardian's principal reinsurance treaty. Nearly every large company has contracts with
one or more reinsurance companies, usually foreign, and whenever an agent writes a policy for
a greater amount than his company thinks it prudent to hazard on the risk in question, it cedes
to one or more of these reinsurers such a proportion of the risk as it feels disinclined to
retain, paying to the reinsurers an equal proportion of the original premium.  The larger the
policies a company is willing to write, the higher the esteem in which it is held by its agents,
as a rule; and the Guardian had always, thanks to the excellent reinsurance facilities it enjoyed,
been able to take care of very liberal lines on all acceptable classes of business. Moreover,
since the treaty company paid the Guardian for its proportion of the premium a higher rate
of commission than the Guardian paid the agent who wrote the risk, the transaction was profitable
to the Guardian.  The reinsurance company could afford to pay the higher commission, because
it had no expensive agency plant to maintain, it did not need conspicuous offices, it employed
no field men or inspectors, and in fact, except for the inevitable losses, this commission
paid for the business was its only important expense.

Mr. Wintermuth had, in the mist of years past, discovered on one of his trips abroad a reinsurance
company rejoicing in the name of the Karlsruhe Feuer Rückversicherungs Gesellschaft, or more
briefly, the Karlsruhe Reinsurance Company.  With the managing director of this worthy institution
he had taken the unspeakable waters at an almost obsolete German spa, and although the waters
did him no good, the reinsurance treaty that he incidentally arranged with Mr. August Schroeder
made a very satisfactory termination of the treatment.  It was a masterly contract--for Mr.
Wintermuth--and its acceptance by Mr. Schroeder only showed that his experience with American
business was very limited or that the waters had sapped his vitality to a degree more than
was perceptible.  It allowed the Guardian to do almost everything it pleased, restricted it
not at all, never protested any action however unexpected, waived every possible right and
privilege, paid a liberal commission and a share of the profits besides--in short, it was an
ideal treaty and one which was the admiration of those few privileged characters who knew its
merits.  Nevertheless it had also proved to be a good contract for the Karlsruhe, for such
business as the Guardian ceded had paid a modest but unfailing return to its Teutonic connection
year after peaceful year.

One can therefore only faintly conjecture Mr. Wintermuth's surprise and genuine anguish upon
receiving, one bright April morning, a communication in German, which, being translated by
Mr. Otto Bartels with something more than his customary stolidity, proved to read, stripped
of all superfluous verbiage, substantially as follows:

"The managing director of the Karlsruhe, in accordance with the conditions of the contract,
hereby gives six months' notice of the termination of the reinsurance arrangements now existing
between the Karlsruhe and the Guardian."

When, the following day, Smith returned, Mr. Wintermuth's first greeting was silently to hand
him this letter.  The younger man, with a little assistance from the President's recollection
of Bartels's translation, managed to decipher the tangled German, and sat for a long minute
without speaking.

"Why do you suppose they're canceling?  And why didn't we get this through their London managers,
I wonder?--they're the people we've done business with for the last ten years," he said at length.

"What difference does it make?"

"None, perhaps.  Still, it strikes me as rather odd.  Almost as though some one had planned
that this should look as though it emanated from a point less in touch with William Street
than London is."

"Then you think--?"

"Who else could it be but O'Connor?  And these German underwriters are perfect babes in the
wood--they're just idiotic enough to cancel a profitable contract merely to take on an experimental
one with a bigger premium income in its place.  Now, nobody outside the office knew the conditions
of our contract with the Karlsruhe--except O'Connor.  No, there's no question about it.  He
probably offered them a little better commission arrangement and a bigger business--and they
fell for it."

"Very likely that is so," agreed Mr. Wintermuth.

"The only question now is: what can we do?" Smith continued.

"Schroeder has been dead six years.  And I don't know the present managing director at all;
I've never even seen this man that signed the letter."

"It would have done us no good if you had known him," said the younger man, slowly.  "This
is a cut and dried affair.  All we can do now is to look for another treaty.  We must try to
get a contract as good as the one we have with the Karlsruhe."

"I'm afraid we can never do it," the President responded.

"Perhaps not--and again, perhaps we can.  Still, I admit it won't be easy."  He fell thoughtfully
silent.

"Cuyler tells me he's lost another broker--Spencer and Carrick have begun to drop their expirations
with us," remarked Mr. Wintermuth, with an irrelevance that was more apparent than real.

"Does he think the Salamander's getting them?" Smith inquired, his eyes narrowing.

The older man nodded.

The other rose from his chair.

"I think," he said deliberately, "that I will go and see Mr. F. Mills O'Connor.  I will give
him just one chance to let up in this campaign of his and restrict his energies to ordinary
business competition; and then, if he refuses, I will ask you and the other directors of the
Guardian to let me open things up and fight him on his own ground, if it costs us every dollar
of prospective profit for the next three years."

Mr. Wintermuth's face assumed an expression of manifest concern.

"Don't be hasty, Richard," he said quickly; "the fault with all you younger men is that you're
apt to go too fast.  I myself have confidence in you, you understand, but I don't know that
I could promise the support of the directors for any campaign of reprisals. I'm afraid the
idea of spending three years' prospective profit wouldn't strike them with any degree of favor."

His perturbation was so sincere that Smith turned back in the doorway to reassure him.

"Well, don't worry," he said lightly.  "Probably my remarks will so abash Mr. O'Connor that
he will immediately promise to be good.  I guess I'll try it on, anyway."

Fresh in his determination, he went straight to the Salamander office, and it was but a moment
later that he found himself confronting the man he had come to see.

"Mr. Smith, I believe," said O'Connor, neutrally.  "Won't you sit down?"

"Mr. O'Connor, I feel quite sure," said the other, taking the proffered seat.

"Yes.  And to what do I owe the pleasure of this call?" responded the President of the Salamander,
swinging around in his chair to face his visitor.

"If I can take up a few minutes of your time, there are quite a number of things I'd like to
say, and a few that with your permission I will."

O'Connor waved his hand for the desired assent.

"Go ahead," he said.

"Mr. O'Connor," said Smith, "you owe your position in the fire insurance world to the Guardian
of New York more than to any one other influence, and your recent acts seem to show that you've
forgotten your obligation.  You committed the Guardian to withdrawing from the Eastern Conference,
for one thing, and after the company got out, you took advantage of its position to raid its
agency plant for the benefit of the Salamander."

"That's most of it nonsense--but what if I did?" asked O'Connor, curtly.

"I am merely here to ask your personal assurance that from now on you will discontinue your
active efforts directed especially against my company."

The other man looked at him.

"That's cool enough, I'm sure.  And what'll you do if I don't grant your surprising request?"

"If you do not, the Guardian will be obliged to take such steps to meet you as seem advisable.
So far we've been entirely on the defensive; but we are going to protect our interests, and
if the best way to protect them necessitates a complete change of tactics from the defensive
to the aggressive, we shall make that change.  And if we do, I give you warning that we can
make things unpleasantly interesting for you and your company."

O'Connor laughed, toying with a pencil.

"We don't want to be forced to attack you," Smith continued, "and I admit we would far rather
not; but I warn you that if we are unfairly injured, the man responsible will be held personally
liable.  You understand what 'personally liable' means, don't you?"

The President of the Salamander did not reply for a moment, but Smith saw a flush come into
his face when he answered.

"Pshaw! you're talking of things you know nothing about.  I haven't injured your company--you've
done it yourselves.  If you don't like it, being outside the Conference, why in the devil don't
you go back?  I'll propose the Guardian for membership, myself, and you'll be reinstated within
two weeks.  I haven't done anything that any business man wouldn't have done.  Some agents
have decided that they'd rather represent the Salamander than the Guardian; in my opinion that's
only the exercise of good judgment.  If people prefer to give risks to us rather than you,
they've a right to exercise the privilege of their choice.  My feeling toward the Guardian
is exactly what it has always been.  If Mr. Wintermuth thinks he's been unfairly treated or
that he has a grievance against me, let him come to me with it himself, and I will be glad
to show him that he is wrong.  But I don't care to go into the matter any further with any
one else."

"That is your answer, then?" Smith asked.

"Yes--it is," the other responded shortly.

Smith turned to the door.

"Sure you've nothing further to add?" he asked, his hand on the knob.

"Nothing whatever," said the President of the Salamander, and he turned back to his desk.

"I'm afraid we'll have to fight," Smith reported to his chief. "O'Connor says," he added, with
legitimate malice, "that if you imagine you have a grievance and will come to the office of
the Salamander, he will graciously consent to give you a hearing."

Mr. Wintermuth looked up, and a flash of his pristine shrewdness gleamed in his eye.

"You're saying that--putting it that way to get me into a controversy with the Salamander people,
Richard," he said.

"Yes," admitted Smith, honestly; "but I wouldn't do it if I didn't believe that eventually
we'll have to fight that man on his own ground, and beat him, too, before he'll leave us alone
to conduct our business."

"Perhaps that is so."

"Then you'll let me close in on him when it becomes necessary?" the other persisted.

"Possibly," said Mr. Wintermuth, cautiously; and more he would not say.

During the next few days Smith found himself a very busy man.  There were a thousand and one
matters demanding his attention, for in the three months' regime of his predecessor many things
had come to loose ends.  All through Conference territory agents had to be reassured; there
were certain legal preparations to be made; definite instructions for a new plan of campaign
had to be given to field men and office force.  Smith found very little time to consider the
two questions which most interested him--of which one was the next probable move of O'Connor
and the other the securing of a new reinsurance contract.

To be sure this latter task was officially assumed by Mr. Wintermuth, but Smith felt reasonably
certain that ultimately he himself would have to find the treaty.  And this would not be an
easy task, unless he should resort to the obvious and fashionable method of consulting Mr.
Simeon Belknap and abiding by his selection on his own terms; and since the market was limited
and Mr. Belknap's facilities in these delicate and complicated matters were unique, his services
naturally were not cheaply held.  Smith, with youthful self-confidence, decided that he himself
would make a preliminary canvass of the reinsurance market; and so, when the first rush of
new duties had abated, and his legal affairs were safely in the hands of counsel, and the interrupted
agency machine of the Guardian was beginning to turn normally once more, he undertook this
matter of a new reinsurance contract with all the energy at his command.

The one man in New York, aside from the eminent Mr. Belknap, who was the most powerful figure
in reinsurance affairs and who best understood the situation on both sides of the Atlantic,
was a solid, silent, almost venerable Teuton by the name of Scheidle.  Mr. Scheidle occupied
an anomalous position, but one of absolute authority, since he had been for many years the
United States Manager of no less than three of the largest foreign reinsurance companies. 
He was unsociable, apparently uninterested in anybody save possibly himself, and disinclined
to be lured by any call or beckoning whatsoever from his William Street office.  An outsider
would have said that most of his time was employed in crossing the ocean, for it seemed as
though the Journal of Commerce reported every few days either his arrival or departure. Perhaps
he reserved his loquacity for his native land, but at all events he exchanged in New York no
converse with any one save in the strictest necessities of business; he had no intimates except
a few anonymous Teutons as difficult of access as himself.  He positively declined to make
new friends, and it was evident that he had all the friends he desired to have; and in the
same way he declined to consider any new business proposals, as all his companies were long
established and all were in possession from numerous treaty contracts of premium incomes sufficiently
large to satisfy their conservative manager.

This was the man that Smith, after careful deliberation, set himself to ensnare.  But unfortunately,
the more extended became his researches, the more impregnable appeared the cloudy barriers
which Mr. Scheidle had raised between himself and the English-speaking world.  At the end of
a week of consistent effort Smith found himself precisely where he was when he began.

And then, just as his chances of success seemed faintest, the whole scroll suddenly unrolled
itself before him.  A chance inquiry of Mr. Otto Bartels provoked an answer of gutturals not
especially euphonious in themselves, but which fell with vast and soothing solace on Smith's
troubled sense.

"Sure do I know him," said Mr. Bartels.  "Except when he goes to Germany, with him I play pinochle
on Tuesdays always."

Smith surveyed him, speechless.

"To-day is Tuesday," he said at last.  And for the next half hour he proceeded to explain to
Mr. Bartels exactly what it was that Mr. Scheidle now had a chance to do for his old friend
with whom for so many years he had played his nocturnal pinochle on Tuesdays always.

"You'd have saved me a lot of trouble if you'd ever said you knew Scheidle," Smith remarked
after the explanation was concluded.

"I would have said if any had asked," replied Mr. Bartels, simply. However, the same commendable
reticence being a characteristic of all his human relations, there really was no cause for
Smith's criticism.

Mr. Bartels, moreover, now that he knew what he was expected to do and had his duty set plain
before his methodical feet, advanced along the desired way in a most encouraging manner, and
with considerable celerity.  So successful was he in his negotiations with Mr. Scheidle that
not long afterward he was able to bring Smith the most welcome of tidings.

"He says that one of his companies has a treaty with the Majestic of Cincinnati, and he has
lost money by it.  The Majestic gives him bad business.  He will perhaps cancel this contract,
and that leaves a place for another."

"The next time I want anything, I'll come to you first," said Smith, cheerfully.  "Now I'll
go and see the chief and ease his mind--and also find out what terms he is willing to make
with Scheidle."

Mr. Wintermuth proved to be no stickler for terms; his anxiety to replace the lost treaty was
too great.  And Mr. Scheidle, after analyzing and studying the results of the business which
the Guardian had ceded to the Karlsruhe, made a very fair offer.  And so the Imperial Reinsurance
Company of Stettin, with assets nearly twice as great as the once lamented Karlsruhe, agreed
to pay as much commission to the Guardian as the Karlsruhe paid, on an almost equally liberal
form of agreement.

It was only a short time after this matter had been so satisfactorily arranged that Smith met
one morning at the office door the gloomy face of the once optimistic and combative Cuyler.
The mind of the young Vice-President had been so cheerfully inclined by the events of the last
fortnight that he had almost forgotten there still was depression in the world.

"For heaven's sake!" he said, stopping the disconsolate one, "you don't mean to say that you
start in a pleasant day feeling the way you look?"

"Yes, of course I do, and why shouldn't I?" returned the misanthrope. "Business all shot to
pieces; the only chance of getting back the brokers we've lost is to open up a little and fire
off a few roman candles, and the old man won't let me do that; and no sign of a good branch
manager.  What more do you want?"

He eyed Smith so hostilely that the younger man, for all his regard for the veteran, felt inclined
to laugh.

"Well, that sounds pretty bad," he agreed; "but absolutely nothing warrants a face as sad as
yours.  Those are simply a number of misfortunes that may be overcome, but your face implies
a regular catastrophe.  I don't see how a broker dares to tackle you; I wouldn't, if I were
a broker."

"Oh, it's all very well to be cheerful, if you can," retorted the other, gloomily; "but I've
been a good many years building up this local business, and I admit I can't take much enjoyment
in watching it float out the door and disappear down the street."

"No, one would hardly expect you to," Smith conceded.  "But cheer up, just a little.  I've
been waiting for the directors' meeting to tackle the local situation, and you know they meet
to-day."

This was the first directors' meeting since that at which Smith had been chosen Vice-President.
Had there been in the minds of those who had voted for him any doubt of his dynamic force and
ability to cope with the situation before him, that doubt must have been dispelled by the brief
but satisfactory report upon what had been done, presented to them by Mr. Wintermuth.  Upon
the conclusion of this there was a pause, and Mr. Whitehill spoke.

"That's a good statement, and I think our Vice-president is to be congratulated on taking hold
of things in such an energetic and business-like way.  We shall of course ratify the action
Mr. Smith has taken on these matters; and now I want to ask Mr. Smith what he thinks our prospects
are and what he has in mind for the immediate future."

There were two things Smith wanted, neither of which could he get alone and unaided; and accordingly
he went to the point with the utmost directness.

"I believe that we have passed a kind of crisis and that things are fairly well started, gentlemen,"
he said.  "I see no reason why the Guardian should not go on and continue to be the successful
underwriting institution it has always been, and certainly I shall try my hardest to make it
so.  I am very much obliged to Mr. Whitehill for his expression of confidence in me.  Now,
there are two things which you gentlemen can give me and for which I ask you to-day.  One is
authority to double our liability on Manhattan Island, and the other is an uptown branch manager."

Smith stopped, glancing at Mr. Wintermuth and rather apprehensive of the reply he might receive.
But all that gentleman answered was:--

"We've always tried to keep down our liability in Manhattan--especially in the lower end, between
Chambers and Twenty-third Street."

"Yes," said Smith; "and I believe, sir, we've kept it down too far.  In the last ten years
the construction has been greatly improved, a high pressure water supply has been introduced,
the fire department is bigger and more efficient, and yet our liability is very little greater
in the dry goods district, for example, than it was ten years ago."

"That's true," the President agreed.  He turned to the other directors. "I think perhaps that
in our city business we may have been a little too conservative, but I have always preferred
to err on that side, if I erred at all.  I should not oppose a rather more liberal policy in
New York."

"Thank you," Smith replied.  "Mr. Cuyler and I will take care that the company does not get
involved for dangerous amounts in any well defined district, and I hope that the larger part
of our increased business will be uptown.  And it will, if we can secure the right branch manager."

"But how can we help you there?" another director asked.  "None of us is familiar with insurance
conditions."

"I thought," the other said, "that some of you might have influence with some of the better
uptown agencies.  The competition for that class of business is tremendous.  Mr. Wintermuth,
Mr. Cuyler, and I all know most of these people, but a mere acquaintance is nothing--to get
into a first-rate office and get their best business means that you've got to have a strangle
hold on the agent--nothing less will do."

Mr. Whitehill leaned back in his chair.

"I don't know exactly what constitutes a strangle hold," he said with a smile; "but there's
one firm up town that handles all my trustee business, and I think they would hardly like to
disoblige me.  I fancy the commissions on it must amount to rather a handsome amount, year
in and year out.  And I think they must have an agency, because once or twice I've noticed
their name signed to policies they've sent me."

"Who are they?" another director asked.  "Perhaps Mr. Wintermuth or Mr. Smith may know them."

"Evans and Jones," replied Mr. Whitehill.

The President and his young subordinate looked at one another.  Even Mr. Wintermuth, who for
some years past had given little attention to the details of the local business, knew that
the firm in question was one of high standing.

"Of One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street?" Smith asked.

"Yes.  You know them?  They have an agency, then?"  Mr. Whitehill responded.

"They certainly have," replied the other.  "They are as desirable agents as there are up town,
and they represent the Essex of England, the Austrian National, and," he glanced at his chief,
"the Salamander of New York."

Mr. Wintermuth found no words.

"Now, Mr. Whitehill," said Smith, "they are the people we want as branch managers.  Our interests
would be safe in their hands.  But to take us and do us justice they would probably have to
resign one of the companies they now represent.  Do you think your influence with them is sufficient
to get them to do that?"'

Mr. Whitehill smiled somewhat grimly.

"My boy," he said, "I don't like to extol my personal influence; but if I asked Evans and Jones
anything within the bounds of reason and they declined to do it, I admit that I should be surprised--very
much surprised."

This was the reason why, on a busy corner of the Street, only a week later, two men came to
a stop face to face, the elder regarding the younger with a malignity that was indifferently
concealed.

"Well, how's the boy underwriter?" said a sneering voice.  "You think you turned a pretty trick
when you took my branch manager, eh?"

"I told you we'd have to get back at you," the other replied.  "But," he added, "I should hardly
think it would be a subject you'd care to discuss."

The blood came into the face of the first speaker.

"Well, I do, just the same," he said; "and I want to tell you that you've gone too far.  You've
made a personal matter of ordinary competition.  All right--have it as you like.  But you take
it from me, this fight's just started, and I'm going to see it through, and I'll get you and
your Guardian yet."

"Is that all you wish to say?" Smith queried in a level tone.

"Yes," said O'Connor, shortly; "that's all.  Remember it."

And he turned toward the office of the Salamander.

CHAPTER XVIII

"27 Deerfield Street.

"DEAR MR. SMITH,--You never come to Boston any more, do you?  Or when you come, do you see
some other lady?  Assuming for the sake of argument that you don't come, I can't help feeling
rather relieved, for if you ever thought my mind at all above the deadest dead level of my
sex--a sex that most gentlemen either secretly or openly believe to be vastly inferior mentally
to their own, anyway--you would receive a fearful shock if you should arrive and see me now.
For no girl could more enthusiastically have thrown herself into the combination of things
with which the comic papers most dearly love to associate the conventionally idiotic feminine--clothes
and weddings.  In this case the wedding has not yet occurred, but the clothes are in one way
or another occurring nearly every twenty minutes; and far from being ashamed of my interest
in such petty and ephemeral things, I have actually enjoyed the campaign--in which I have taken
both an active and advisory part--toward completing a trousseau for the prospective bride.

"However, one thing gives me courage to confess this to you, and that is that I have merely
followed out my natural tastes and inclinations, and I think you have a theory that anything
absolutely natural has a right to exist.  I hope I'm not wrong and that you really have such
a theory, for it has cheered me up quite a lot, because I don't believe any one ever took a
more vivid interest in clothes than I have done for the last ten days.

"I suppose by this time you are thinking I have talked so much about it that I must be acquiring
this trousseau for myself, but such is not the case.  The bride-to-be is Isabel, who has finally
decided to marry Charlie Wilkinson at once, and without waiting longer for a change which may
never occur.  Miss Hurd, who inherits some of her father's sagacity, has always acted on the
theory that if you consistently neglect to do things which absolutely have to be done, some
one else will always do them for you,--and in this affair I am the some one else, doing most
of the real work while Isabel placidly speculates on whether her father will or won't relent
at the eleventh hour.

"I could save her the trouble of her speculations, for I know John M. pretty well, and the
number of times he has changed his mind in the course of his life cannot be more than six!
But Isabel argues that he reversed his decision once before on a matter in which the ingenious
Mr. Wilkinson figured, and so he may do again.  But up to now there are no signs of any such
happy conclusion, for Mr. Hurd stands on his promise that if Isabel marries Charlie, her doom
will be on her own head, so to speak.  He has more than once thrown out the fine old conventional
paternal threat--'not one penny, and so forth'--which would give me, I admit, far more concern
than it seems to occasion either of the interested parties.

"Certainly Mr. Hurd has thus far given an excellent imitation of a very fair grade of adamant,
as Charlie puts it.  He concedes nothing that he doesn't have to.  He says Isabel is of age
and can legally marry whom she pleases, but if she pleases to marry Charles Wilkinson, the
Hurds' roof shall not be the scene of the function.  Charlie's obvious retort to this was that
this didn't cause him very much disappointment, as Mr. Hurd's or any one else's roof seemed
a curious and somewhat inappropriate place for a marriage ceremony, anyway, and he didn't think
the prospect of himself and his ushers being obliged to reach the altar by crawling out of
a scuttle would lend to the occasion a dignity strictly in accordance with his well-known reputation
for always doing things in correct form.

"So the pair of them are now trying to decide whether to have a church ceremony or to run away--practically--and
be married without any society annex whatever to the affair.  I myself rather favor the latter,
but Charlie is quite keen for the church.  He is really very proud of Isabel, and so far as
I can make out he would like a big wedding to advertise, as it were, his achievement in getting
her.  And then he adds as usual that his tailor and other similar friends ought to be considered,
and the more important the function the firmer his future credit will be.

"Meanwhile time flies, and poor Mrs. Hurd is torn by conflicting desires.  All her life, you
see, she has subordinated herself to every whim and opinion of her husband and repressed every
natural inclination and desire.  How you would love her!  And now she finds to her surprise
that her natural affection for her daughter is in danger of taking her off her feet.  I really
believe there have been some painful scenes between the poor lady and John M.--and there may
be some more if Mrs. Hurd's newly awakened self-assertiveness grows more positive and Mr. Hurd
remains inflexible.

"Through all of this I keep the comparatively noiseless tenor of my way, and plots, counterplots,
and cabals seethe deliciously round me. I've been having a simply splendid time, and I've discovered
that the actual cause of my enjoyment is the most primitive one imaginable,--I love a romance,
and a real romance ought to end in a wedding, just as this one is presently going to do.  I
can hear your comment on this: 'Good heavens! that Maitland girl is exactly like all the rest!'
Well, perhaps I am; cut my acquaintance if you wish--but I have confessed the truth to you.

"Charlie is much improved, I think.  He is as cheerful and as inconsequent as ever, and his
plans for the future seem to me, although I am not a practical woman of business, more sketchy
than well defined. Sometimes, after listening to him, I have come to the conclusion that even
so attractive a quality as absolute optimism can be overdone, and that the principle of never
crossing a bridge before you come to it can reasonably be modified by observing before you
actually get to the water whether there is any bridge at all or whether you will have to swim
for the opposite bank.  However, one saving grace is the fact that Charlie seems genuinely
in love with Isabel, if I know any of the signs, and in contemplating the future he even talks
of going to work, if the need should ever arise for that radical departure from his whole life
scheme.  Of course, as says, he probably wouldn't do it, but that he should even think of it
he conceives to be a sign of inherent nobility.

"Were it not for this excitement, I am afraid Boston would be a little dull.  I am reluctant
to put such a confession in writing, for some one has quite truly remarked that to say of any
place that it is dull is too often a confession of one's own dullness, but I am going to be
honest about it.  Do you suppose it is because New York, after being denied by me so long,
will have its hour?--or is this a permanent thing?  Somehow I cannot get away from the feeling
that Boston is small and narrow and cold.  Perhaps it is because of the wonderful life that
thrills through almost everything in New York--even through the things one dislikes.  But I
don't expect you to answer that, because I don't believe you dislike anything thoroughly characteristic
of New York; I remember you once took me to a Broadway musical comedy and said you enjoyed it.

"It is a long time since you were in Boston.  Are you likely to come here again within a month
or two?  If not, I wish you would write me all the news of the Guardian and all about the great
legal fight which you and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts are waging against the octopus.
I try to keep in touch with it through Uncle Silas, who of course is intensely interested and
who seems another man of late, but he has not your gift of explaining in words of one syllable.
Have you ever thought of getting out a textbook of 'First Principles' of anything, for juvenile
intellects of all ages?  I am not wholly making fun.

"Yours faithfully,

"HELEN MAITLAND."

"It is," wrote Smith in reply, "one of the most soothing things imaginable for a person who
is about to admit a human weakness to find his confession forestalled.  Just as I had determined
to confess to you my possession of frailties entirely incompatible with the conception of Richard
Smith in the eyes of his ordinary acquaintances, I received your letter.  It was with the delight
of the reprieved client of a painless dentist that I read your admission that when such vital
things as trousseaux and weddings are in question, you are very much like other girls--and
perhaps even a little more so.

"I really breathe a huge sigh of relief.  And with positive cheerfulness I can now proceed
to divulge the secrets I have learned about one Richard Smith, Esquire, in the months which
have elapsed since a certain traveler from the Far East--relatively--returned home from New
York.  As my somewhat cryptic rhetoric may not be clear, and appreciating your fondness for
words of one syllable, permit me to state that this means you.

"Self-satisfaction, self-absorption, self-sufficiency, have had a sobering shock.  For I find
that for the full and perfect enjoyment of my city I myself am no longer enough.  I need company--curiously,
one specific and particular individual whom, having once named, I need not name again.

"Do you suppose all this can be a sort of vanity?  Do you think it was my delight in the sound
of my own voice, booming through the crowded streets I love like the bittern across his lonely
marshes, that makes me wish you would abandon even such thrilling traffic as trousseau planning,
and come back and let me boom some more?  For I have found it truth absolute that New York
with Miss Maitland in it is a better place than the same city peopled only by Richard Smith--and
some millions of others.  Do you object to my telling you this?  If your mood is unusually
Bostonian when you receive this letter, you will very likely hurl the fragments of it into
an ashcan omitted from the map of the brown building on Deerfield Street.  However, I am counting
heavily on the mood and influence of the approaching wedding to help me out.

"For nobody--that is, no real girl--is inflexible when there is a wedding in the air, and your
letter only proves you are a real girl--which I always thought you to be.  And I'm awfully
glad you are! Only think how icily unhuman you would seem if you could hold yourself superior
even to a wedding, and especially to one so romantic as this of Miss Hurd's promises to be,
with all the melodramatic settings of a possible elopement, a distracted mother, and the thunderously
raging paternal parent of the disinherited heiress to add zest to the occasion!  If you remained
unmelted by all this, my next visit to Boston--which I am sorry to say cannot occur as soon
as I would like to have it--would almost certainly see my calls confined to insurance agents
and lawyers--or perhaps to the mythical other person referred to in your letter.

"For the other person is purely mythical, as you must some day know. Only in Deerfield Street
is there the type of brown building that irresistibly attracts me.  So beware of stray rings
at the doorbell, for any moment it may be I.  Do you believe in telepathy?  And if so, do you
believe in it sufficiently to think it can ring a doorbell all the way from New York to Boston?
If you do, listen--and you can hear it now!

"You asked me about the onslaught upon the octopus, and I am happy to say that things are going
as well as the most ardent muck-raker on the most active fifteen-cent reform magazine could
wish.  The suit has been put on the calendar for trial in Massachusetts, and in New York State
the Superintendent of Insurance is causing more trouble than we ourselves could possibly have
created.  There haven't been any actual results yet, but the moral effect for us has been immense.
The Eastern Conference people are no fools, and they can read the Mene-tekel on the wall even
if they don't know Assyrian.

"If you have talked with Mr. Osgood, you doubtless know that we are agreed on our Boston plans.
At the proper time he is to go back into his office, taking the Guardian back with him--and
probably the first thing he will do after taking charge again will be to resign the Salamander.
Meanwhile we sit as tight as a couple of dynamite conspirators--and at present the Guardian
appoints no Boston representative and accepts no Boston business except from a few suburban agents.

"Elsewhere things are looking very much more cheerful than when I saw you; and when the rush
begins to let up a bit, I shall have no difficulty at all in persuading myself that a conference
with Mr. Osgood and our Boston attorneys is necessary.  Until then I must do my best to forget
that New York is less delightful under some conditions than--others.

"I hope you will be good enough to write me all about the wedding of Miss Hurd and Wilkinson.
Somehow I cannot help regarding it as a fundamentally humorous happening--I think the picture
of Wilkinson as a man of responsibilities in any actual sense is probably the cause of my amusement.
But I wish them both the very best of luck, and if you think it a suitable match, I am quite
willing to accept your judgment. Wilkinson always seemed to me to look quite happy and contented,
and it is the popular belief that any young bachelor of such an appearance needs a woman to
take care of him.

"Do you remember the old print of the Madison Cottage that we discovered in the print room
of the Library one afternoon?  I found a copy of it in a second-hand book shop down town a
few days ago.  In case you don't object to having it I am "inclosing it herewith," as we say
in our office correspondence a hundred times a week.  Except that the people to whom we send
the inclosures usually don't want them, and I am hoping that you will care something about this.

"Very sincerely yours,

"RICHARD SMITH."

It was at the close of a pleasant afternoon in the good town of Boston, only a few days after
the arrival of this letter, that two girls and a young man rather hastily descended the front
steps of a certain substantial and dignified dwelling in the Back Bay district.  That something
a little out of the ordinary had occurred might have been guessed from the expression of guilt
on the faces of certainly two and perhaps all three of them, and possibly by the half-embarrassed
alacrity with which the young man escorted his companions down the steps.  No one of them apparently
cared even to glance back at the building they had just left, although its occupancy was as
respectable as its appearance indicated; and each one seemed oddly reluctant to look at either
of the others.  It was not until their feet stood soundly on the flagged sidewalk and the house
was well behind them that the tension snapped and the young man spoke.

"Well, Isabel," said he, "I'm awfully glad I've done it, but that ceremony was certainly terrific.
I believe that to go through such a thing twice in a span of life would unhinge a mind like
mine, whose hinges creak slightly at times, anyway."

"Very well, Charlie," responded the young lady addressed, smiling.  "I think I can arrange
that you shan't have to, for the Hurds are a notoriously long-lived family."

"But what was so terrific about it, Charlie?" inquired the other young lady.  "It didn't seem
to me to differ much from any other marriage ceremony--and you must have heard dozens at one
time or another."

"Oh, I suppose I have," was the reply; "but somehow that man made me feel like a worm--and
a worm that's only by the most extraordinary luck managed to keep out of jail.  I felt like
a cheap political hack accepting the nomination for an important office that I was perfectly
certain I couldn't fill acceptably."

"Well, he did look a trifle severe--not very cheerful," conceded Miss Maitland.

"Cheerful!  He looked about as cheerful as a firm believer in infant damnation during a bad
attack of dyspepsia.  But never mind."  He turned to the other girl.  "Now that it's all over,
how does it feel, Isabel, to be Mrs. Charles Sylvester Wilkinson?"

"I really don't know," said his wife, considering a moment.  "It's the Sylvester part that
seems most unfamiliar.  I had honestly almost forgotten that you had such a decorative middle
name.  And when I was told that some one called Charles Sylvester had endowed me with all his
worldly goods, I admit I felt somewhat surprised."

"You would have been even more so if, at the same time, you had been given a list of them,"
replied the bridegroom.  "I think--to go back to the Archbishop--" he said reflectively, "that
the trouble with that man was that he was too high-church.  Now my leanings have never been
toward high-churchness.  Ordinarily my inclinations toward church at all are discernible with
difficulty.  My enthusiasm regarding it is continually, under normal conditions, at low ebb.
And this, I take it, makes me a low-churchman."

"It's a most encouraging sign, to see you embracing any kind of ritual," said Miss Maitland.
"Isabel, I have hopes of him yet."

"That is very good of you," replied the bride, smiling amiably at her lord and master--to speak
academically.

"Very strange feeling it gives one to be so suddenly married in this way--without any of the
conventional preliminaries," Wilkinson continued.  "I always imagined that when my time was
come, while the grape scissors and sets of Jane Austen and cut glass berry bowls were pouring
in on my happy fiancée, I should have one last, lonely, sentimental hour set apart for maiden
meditations and twilight reflections over my dead life and half-forgotten past.  Also to recover
from the effects of my ushers' dinner.  An ushers'--girls, have either of you ever given or
even attended an ushers' dinner?"

His companions' reply was a laughing negative.

"Well," said the young man, gravely, "to have escaped giving an ushers' dinner is assuredly
worth an almost innumerable number of pairs of grape scissors and several entire editions of
Jane Austen.  Yes, I am certainly to be congratulated, for an ushers' dinner should be shunned
like the Bubonic plague.  To begin with, the cost is simply colossal. The food, of course,
counts for practically nothing, and the drink is only an incidental, though a large one.  But
repairing the broken furniture, and repapering and redecorating the room in which the function
has been held, and purchasing another piano in place of the one which your guests have playfully
torn to pieces--those are a few of the things that count."

"They sound as though they did," agreed Miss Maitland.

"Moreover," Wilkinson continued, "if the dinner is given at the club to which you belong, you
always put the board of governors in an awkward position, for at their next meeting after your
entertainment they can never agree on whether to expel you outright or merely suspend you for
three years, and quite often there is bad feeling created by these dissensions; while if you
hold the affair at a public restaurant, you risk the friendly ultimate intervention of the
police.  And then the favors!  Why should I present several gentlemen with pearl stick pins,
when I have none myself?  To be sure I might give my best man the ticket for mine, and he could
redeem it whenever he had four dollars, but generally speaking, the answer is in the interrogative."

"On the whole, then," said his bride, "you ought to be reconciled for the loss of your twilight
reflections."

"When I look into your eyes I am repaid for everything!  There!" he turned to Helen, "could
any one have said a perfect thing more perfectly?"  And Miss Maitland agreed that, although
his grammar might have been criticized, his sentiment and delivery were flawless.

"Well, it's over now, so I'm glad you accept it gracefully," she said. "You're committed, temporarily
at least--unless you wish to start for Nevada at once."

"Really, Helen, I think it's most indelicate of you to refer to such a possibility," the other
girl remarked.  "I've only been married fifteen minutes, and to be deserted by one's husband
even within a week or two is not considered flattering."

"No, I think I'll stay," Wilkinson replied.  "But if I were to start West at all, I should
say the sooner the better to avert the wrath of your esteemed but irascible parent."

"I think father has said all he has to say; he expressed himself most thoroughly," Isabel rejoined
thoughtfully.

"I should say he did!" her husband agreed.  "With elaborate precision, if I may so express
it.  He told me enough about my family and antecedents to make me wholly ashamed to belong
to them.  His presentation of myself was simply masterful; it would have moved one of his own
trolley cars; I didn't wonder a bit that he objected to me as a son-in-law.  In fact, I told
him that had I known all these things I should have sought a fitting helpmate from the State
Reformatory, but that I could not withdraw--my word was pledged."

"What did he say to that?" Helen asked, with amusement.

"He intimated that, as I seemed susceptible to reason, perhaps his daughter also might be.
But I assured him that he failed to calculate correctly my undeniable personal charm--that
I was an acquired taste, but one for which there was no cure."

"An odd one, but mine own?" suggested Isabel.

"That was not quite the idea I intended to convey, but I am bound to admit it was just about
the way it seemed to strike your respected parent.  That is, he said, 'I suppose if she's been
idiotic enough to decide to marry you, it would be impossible to bring her to her senses now.'
I cordially assented."

"Do you know, I believe I really am married," Isabel said reflectively; "for I certainly object
most decidedly to my father's way of talking to you.  Heavens!  If I have to go through life
resenting the things people say of my husband, I shall certainly lead a checkered career."

"It is the common lot of wives," remarked her husband philosophically. "But here we are, hard
by the gilded food bazaar wherein a head waiter with drawn butterknife guards a table for three,
reserved in my name. We are about fifteen minutes early, but personally I could look with resignation
on the idea of nourishment."

"The voice of returning nature," said Helen, with a laugh.  "Charlie married is the same man,
in one respect at least, that we have always known.  Isabel, you may be disturbed over what
people say about your husband, but you will never need to be disturbed at his lack of appetite."

"The main disturbance will be in providing for it," Wilkinson responded.  "The securities I
own bring me in a revenue of thirty dollars a year.  That is two dollars and a half a month,
or about eight cents a day.  I read only yesterday an article about some ingenious person who
contrived to support life on something like that sum, but my recollection is that his menu
consisted almost entirely of peanut butter--of which I am not particularly fond--and besides
that, there was only one of him, while there are two of us."

"Yes, that's true," Miss Maitland conceded.

"I had begun to think I had gotten financially on my feet, when my father-in-law turned over
that trolley insurance to me, but he says he'll see me considerably below the equator before
he gives me the renewal of it.  Deeply do I regret that I did not succeed in getting him to
take out three-year policies."

"Why wouldn't he?"

"Well, he just wouldn't.  And I was unwilling to force the matter for fear of losing entirely
that coy and canny fish.  I did get him, though, to let me rewrite the line last month, so
as to include some property not at first insured, and that ties it up until next April. And
maybe before next April comes around, the hard-hearted John M. will have relented toward his
gifted son-in-law, and all will be well. Meanwhile we will live on our principal."

"Meanwhile we will do nothing of the sort," said Mrs. Wilkinson, with a smile.  "I may not
have inherited all father's talent for finance, Charlie, but there are one or two things I
know enough not to do, and that is one of them."

"Madam," said her husband, sternly, "there is in your speech a hint of definite purpose which
is at once encouraging and disquieting to me. May I ask if your plan contemplates the labor
of your consort?  Do I make myself clear?  In other words, are you suggesting that I shall
go to work?"

"It may come to that," smiled his wife.

"Well, well!  Charles Wilkinson a wage earner!"  He shook his head silently, and the trio walked
on.

It had been arranged that Helen was to dine with them.  The sudden marriage, which had been
forced by a swift access of hostility on the part of John M. Hurd, had left little time for
preparations, but the dinner was merry enough, and the health of the bride and groom was pledged
with the utmost fidelity to tradition; and after that, Charles and Isabel escorted their guest
home, and left her at the door of the apartment on Deerfield Street.

Mrs. Maitland found her daughter but silent company the rest of that evening, and at a comparatively
early hour the Maitland apartment grew dark.  In Mrs. Maitland's room all was quiet, and in
due course, presumably, sleep; but Helen found that slumber was alien to her eyes. So, opening
her window to the little breeze that came hinting of summer although speaking of spring, she
looked out wide-eyed into the starry night.

It was warm, even for the time of year, and the cool breath of the ocean which Boston knows
so well was not in the air.  Instead the breeze moved slowly in from the westward, bringing
the imagined odor of apple blossoms from unseen orchards.  The city's sounds were dying to
a mere rumor of sound.  Now and again a light went out suddenly in some window of a near-by
building; the reflection of the street lamps on the night became more and more clear.  For
a long time Helen gazed out into the darkness.

Across the water to the northward shone the lights on the Cambridge shore.  Seeing them her
memory went back to the time when first she had really seen New York by night.  Smith had volunteered
to show her the night city as it should be seen, and never was she to free her imagination
from the sight.  They had gone first to the South Ferry, in the gathering dusk, and taking
boat for Brooklyn had witnessed from its rear deck the golden pageant of the thousand lighted
buildings of the lower city--had watched them gleam in a thousand ripples across the dark river,
ripples that lay and moved like silver and golden serpents along the water.  Back presently
they had turned, approaching once more the stately towers that touched the sky, and this time
they had sought a new angle.  Over to the Jersey shore their blunt-nosed ferryboat had taken
them, and thence north along the river to Twenty-third Street, seeing the gold and velvet-black
city slide southward as in a dream.

On all this Helen was now indefinitely reflecting, and of the man with whom she had seen it
first she perhaps thought a little.  But those were oblique thoughts, and hardly worth the
name.  All the experiences and impressions of the day--Isabel's departure from home, the wedding,
the grave face of the old minister, the silence of the dim room in the parsonage, Charlie's
subsequent comments, the dinner à trois--all these mingled in her mind, and somehow seemed
a part of the great night into which she gazed.

Yet there was an undercurrent of vague dissatisfaction in her reflections.  All these things
were true and vital, and she had been only a spectator, a visitor at the fair.  Life had surged
around her, but had touched her not at all, or lightly at best.  Unconsciously her thoughts
toward the sleeping city were as though she offered herself to it and to the life that bound
it and swept through its veins. Presently, across the water, a clock began to strike the hour--midnight--and
softened by the distance, the chimes came gently across the intervening space.

Helen roused herself a moment: midnight!  Yet the blood that flushed her cheeks showed that
sleep for her was still afar off.  And so she sat, unmoving, while in the darkness above her
the myriad stars moved slowly in their majestic courses.

CHAPTER XIX

The bringing of order out of chaos is one of the most interesting and also one of the most
satisfying employments a person can have. Likewise it is usually one of the most exhausting,
if the chaos has been really chaos and the order be really order.  But the satisfaction of
seeing, as the clouds break and the skies clear, the salient outline of the thing appear as
it ought to appear is sufficient compensation for all the effort.  Even if the work be no more
elevated than washing up a trayful of soiled china, a certain thrill is there at the successful
completion of the task; and the greater the Augean stable, the purer is the pleasure of him
who cleans it.

When in the spring of this, his most eventful year, Smith had taken charge of the slipping,
wavering, demoralized Guardian, the stable of Augeas there confronting him would perhaps have
dismayed a less enthusiastic and a less determined man.  Everything was at loose ends; under
the shiftless hand of Gunterson even the fine insurance machine built up by Mr. Wintermuth
in his best constructive days had suddenly grown to creak painfully in its joints.  The heads
of departments, seeing no inspiring or even efficient leadership above them, had become discouraged,
and there had been no one to brace their failing spirits. Mr. Cuyler and Mr. Bartels in particular
had felt the altered fortunes of the company more keenly than they had felt any business crisis
in all their previous experience.

When Mr. Cuyler had witnessed his local business, his pride and his life, the fixed star of
his professional soul, begin slipping away, his gloom, as has been told, was not to be lifted.
But the case of Mr. Bartels was even more sad.  Year after year had that painstaking official
made up the current statement of the company's position, to be presented in silence to Mr.
Wintermuth on the first business day of every month.  Year after year had he carried this balance
sheet to his chief and stolidly waited for the word of satisfaction which was always forthcoming,
save in exceptional cases.  For there had come to be a kind of sacred formula about it, and
if that formula failed to materialize, the world was all awry for Mr. Bartels, until another
month put matters right once more.  And this, so placidly prosperous had the Guardian been,
the succeeding month had seldom failed to do.

"Holding our own, Otto?" the President would inquire.

"Poohty good; losses is bad but premiums is up some, too," Mr. Bartels would usually reply;
and Mr. Wintermuth, appreciating the impossibility of ever reaching a loss ratio low enough
to meet the approval of his Teutonic subordinate, would scan the statement with little fear
of the result.  And then, after another little exchange of courtesies, this monthly playlet
would end.

When the Guardian had first met the rough water, Mr. Bartels had not been able to understand
that anything was amiss--that anything could be amiss--with the company whose inconspicuous
prosperity had been an axiom of the Street.  When, on the first day of February, he had taken
off his first summary of January results, a little cloud of puzzled suspicion had gathered
in his still blue eyes.  After carefully checking his own figures he had rung for Dunham, the
chief accountant, and it had been a querulous and angry summons.

"Here, dese figures is all wrong.  You have January premiums pretty near fifteen per cent behind
last year.  Fix 'em."

But Dunham, chill as the Matterhorn, assured the excited little man that the figures were quite
correct and that he had checked them twice to make certain.

"But--but--" said Bartels in bewilderment, "we cannot be going backwards like that!  We have
never gone back like that in January."

"Until this year," incautiously rejoined the other.

"No; nor this year, neither!" cried Mr. Bartels; and only his own thrice repeated checking
of the premium sheets would convince him. Shaking a puzzled and resentful head, he at last
sought his chief; with a hang-dog air he handed over his statement, and with heavy heart he
waited for the President to speak.

Speech was longer than usual in coming.

"Not quite so good?" the President said at last.

"No," said Mr. Bartels.  "Rates must be off, I guess?"

"No, Otto," returned Mr. Wintermuth, slowly.  "It's not a rate war.  It is that we have had
to give up some of our agencies in the East on account of the Conference separation rule. 
I am afraid we shall have to expect a certain decrease for a little while until things get
readjusted.  But it won't last; you needn't worry about that."

Unfortunately, however, it did last; and not only that, but it became more and more marked
with each succeeding month.  With the third statement, when the greatest inroads had been made
into the Guardian's business, Mr. Bartels became like a living sepulcher.  So heavy and sad
was the heart he carried in his breast that not all the consoling words of his chief could
stir him.

"I have seen agencies whose accounts I have passed for twenty years fall away to almost nothing
or nothing at all.  From Silas Osgood I get no March account; from Jones and Meers I get none.
Every month for fifteen years have I written Jones and Meers to correct their adding; now I
write them not at all."  And there were many more.

Finally, when at last it dawned upon Mr. Bartels's Bavarian mind that the Guardian was really
in peril and that unless something were done quickly, a large part of the remainder of the
agents in the East would follow those already gone, his blind anger and resentment knew no
bounds.  He could not, however, understand the real facts in the case, and no one ever took
the trouble fully to explain them to him.  So his impotent rage, lacking a target whereat to
aim it, became even blinder. He was like a child, being unjustly punished for some wrong which
he had not committed, and which he could in no way comprehend.  The thought of facing his chief
with a semiannual statement made up of a series of months like these, was more than he could
bear.  Fortunately he was not to be called upon to do so, for Mr. Gunterson left the Guardian
when the fat was all but in the fire, and another turn was given to affairs.

And the year now just closing had been a busy year for Mr. Richard Smith.  During the most
of it he had worked nearly twelve hours a day, and spent a liberal share of the balance in
laying his plans.  Now, and only now,--as the year 1913 was drawing to a close,--had he time
to draw a full breath and look about him.

His Augean stable, if not wholly clean, was at least free from the more dangerous impurities.
The Guardian was not yet, it was true, clear of all possibility of disaster; but the tide had
been turned, and with strict care there was no further need to fear shipwreck.  In Pennsylvania,
in Maryland, in New York,--in short, practically everywhere save in Massachusetts, where the
fight was still in the courts,--separation had received its deathblow, while robbed of this
advantage the Conference companies could do little or nothing to harm the Guardian.  And in
justice to them it must be said that none of them apparently manifested any abnormal desire
to do so, excepting always the Salamander, whose hostility increased in geometrical ratio with
the Guardian's recovery of strength and prestige.  Most of the agencies which had been lost
under Mr. Gunterson's management were either restored to the company's lists, or else their
places had been taken by others of equal or superior quality.

Out in the field the special agents had under Smith's aggressive direction recovered their
courage and carried out with striking success the details of his campaign.  At the few points
where the company's loss record had been consistently bad, Smith either kept the Guardian out
altogether or made an appointment on such a basis that the agent's profits would be small unless
the company itself made money through that agency.  Being free and not bound by Conference
restrictions, he was able at many points to improve his company's position.  And when, in the
early days of the coming January, Mr. Bartels should approach his annual statement, it seemed
probable that it would show little diminution in the Guardian's resources.  The statement would
be helped, too, by the fact that the value of some of the securities owned by the company,
chiefly considerable blocks of bank and anthracite railroad stocks, had appreciated very handsomely
during the year.  And Mr. Cuyler, thanks to the increased conflagration line and to the large
business he was securing from his new branch manager, was making a record so good that he could
scarcely believe the figures which he himself had compiled.

All in all, the showing would be by no means a discreditable one.  It had been a remarkable
task; and Smith, now that he came to look back on it, remembering the black days of the reign
of Gunterson the Unready, could himself only wonder mildly at the way all these things had
come about.  In the midst of the satisfaction which he could not help but feel, there was always
a genuine sense of amazement at the facile way in which Fate had played into his hand.  If
he had any doubts, however, no one else confessed to any.  Mr. Wintermuth frankly gave to his
young underwriter the proper share of credit for the results that had been brought about. 
All this was pleasant, but it was also earned.

In these months of activity, activity unusual even for Smith, who was customarily a busy man,
there had been for him only one personal diversion.  This was his growing friendship with Helen
Maitland; and to this relationship Smith had by this time come to turn as a lost Arab turns
to a chance-discovered oasis.  Through the days of Gunterson's administration he had not had
heart to write Helen or even to think of her--to his darkened vision she seemed increasingly
far away.  But this could not last, and when the tide turned, he presently found himself writing
to her almost as to another self, and found himself awaiting her letters as filling one of
the most vital needs of his life.  There was a name for this, but as yet he was not prepared
to use it, and if Helen were prepared, certainly no hint of any such readiness showed through
her diction.

Because men no longer go abroad, as in medieval times, hewing their way to glory and romance
with sword and mace, it is no sure sign that the flower has fallen from romance's tree.  Merely
because that flower now blooms perhaps more quietly, less flamboyantly than it used to bloom
in purple and gold, is no reason to think that it does not bloom at all. The singers of world
songs find voice to-day, just as they always have, and no lack of all the panoply of old-time
chivalry and war can make a friendship slipping into love less than a beautiful and wondrous
thing. It is perhaps in some ways to be regretted that the inspiring bombast of the elder days
is no longer in vogue--the grandiloquent arrogance that led a man to tie a lady's ribband to
his arm and proclaim on fear of sudden death her puissance of beauty throughout the world.
This is perhaps unfortunate; but through added reticence beauty really suffers no wrong.

Smith, although he had not as yet formulated his precise wishes or intentions as regards Helen,
still knew that he desired a house professionally in order before he allowed himself to think
of another kind of house.  The Guardian was his company, and the Guardian must be placed in
a haven where storms could come not, before he would feel that his charge was sufficiently
relaxed to allow of his dreaming dreams.

It was with this idea that, as the old year was drawing to a close, he approached Mr. Wintermuth
with a definite project in view.

"We are not going to have such a bad year, after all," he began.

"I fancy we shall come through pretty well," the President agreed. "Although it didn't look
much like it at the start."

"No," said Smith; "it didn't.  But do you know, sir, that in one way we're not making as much
of a profit as we should?"

"In what way do you mean, Richard?" inquired his chief.

"Not in the underwriting," replied the younger man.  "I'm not going to suggest increasing our
lines or opening up any more than we have.  But I don't think it would hurt us if we opened
up a little financially."

"How so?  In what way?"

"Well, our investments are in high-class securities, but they're not liquid enough.  We've
always bought with the intention of holding what we buy forever.  Now, we've got an exceptionally
good finance committee; Mr. Griswold in particular is regarded as one of the strongest and
shrewdest men in Wall Street."

"Yes; I know he is," Mr. Wintermuth conceded.

"And there's really no good reason why we shouldn't benefit by his judgment.  Now, you know
as well as any one that the money to be made out of underwriting, pure and simple, is comparatively
little.  You know that in the long run, even with the most ably managed companies, expenses
and losses together just about eat up all the premiums received--that less than a dozen first-class
companies doing a national business have an underwriting balance on the right side for the
last ten-year period."

"I admit that unfortunately such is the case."

"Therefore the only chance a company has to make money is from the use of money--from the use
of its premiums between the time they are received and the time they are paid out in losses.
And as this is really our only chance, we ought to take every advantage--and make as much of
an investment profit as we possibly can."

"I trust you do not mean to suggest that we use the Guardian's assets for purposes of speculation,"
Mr. Wintermuth remarked.

"Certainly not--unless it is speculating to take advantage of what foresight and knowledge
of conditions our finance committee possesses. I do not suggest buying on margin or selling
what we haven't got.  But I do suggest that we carry more liquid assets and a bigger cash balance
than we have ever done, so as to be able to take advantage of opportunities that may present
themselves.  Now, take our Ninth National Bank stock, for instance.  The Duane Trust Company
crowd are trying to buy the control, and the stock's higher than it's ever been. In my opinion
the block we hold is worth more to the Duane people than it is to us; I'd let them have it."

"Why, we've had that stock for twenty years!" the President said.

"Well, we've probably had it long enough," said his subordinate, with a smile.  "At least I'd
like to have Mr. Griswold's opinion on the point. And you certainly will never lose much by
getting out of a security at the highest price it's touched in that entire period."

"Perhaps not.  I will speak to Griswold about it," said Mr. Wintermuth.

"I am not a financier, and all this is somewhat outside my province," Smith went on; "but I
think we ought to follow more closely the trend of modern business methods.  We hold far more
than we need of solid railroad bonds that net us four per cent on our investment.  With very
little extra risk I am sure we can secure a good deal larger return."

It was a rather daring speech to make, for four per cent first-mortgage railroad bonds had
been Mr. Wintermuth's idea of finance for almost a generation.  It spoke well for his confidence
in his Vice-President that he did not regard the remark as an impertinence.

"That may be true, Richard," he said mildly, "although I have held to the contrary for twenty
years.  Still, times change, and to-day you may be right."

"I think I am, sir," returned Smith, respectfully.  "At any rate, why shouldn't the question
be laid before the directors?"

"We could do that," agreed Mr. Wintermuth, with, it must be confessed, a covert feeling of
relief.  After all, the assimilation of new ideas is not the most painless of processes, whatever
the age of the assimilator.

"There's no meeting before the January one, is there?"

"No.  January fifth--dividend meeting.  But that's comparatively soon. I'll lay it before the
board at that time."

"Thank you, sir," said his subordinate, rising; "and I think that at least one person present
will approve a little more elastic financial policy for the Guardian."

"Mr. Richard Smith?" inquired the President.

"Oh, yes.  But I was thinking of Mr. Griswold."

"Well, we shall see," rejoined Mr. Wintermuth; and the conversation concluded.

The year 1914 dawned clear and cold.  There had been an almost daily snowfall in New York during
Christmas week; and although the street cleaning squad had labored stoutly, a little dusky
whiteness still persisted in the less frequented corners of the city.  This had come near to
being the undoing of Mr. Jenkins, the main reliance of the Pacific Coast accounts and otherwise
of considerable importance in the period of stress and toil known as "statement time."

At the beginning of every year comes this period to every company--the time when the accounts
department becomes, instead of an active thorn in the company's flesh, the real, essential
hub of the whole wheel; the time when the adding machines are never still and the rooms resound
with the rustle and stir of a thousand sheets of figures, swung ceaselessly over by practiced
and hasty thumbs; when the lights burn late every night for two weeks on end, and the laboring
bookkeepers see their families only by cinematographic glances between newspaper and coffee
cup in the cold gray mornings.

This time was now come; and the Guardian's men, under the silent but none the less strenuous
urging of Mr. Bartels, had begun the grind which could end only when the annual statement of
the company was in the printers' hands with proof initialed and approved by Otto Bartels, Secretary.
And this, taken in conjunction with the cold weather and heavy snowfall, had fairly undone
the honor and the reputation of Mr. Jenkins.  For the unusual cold and the night work together
had betrayed him into potations even beyond his wont, the slippery pavements had proven very
baffling to his dignified tread--and the snowy signet upon the back of his topcoat spoke to
a delighted office all too plainly that at last the alcoholic equilibrist par excellence had
fallen.

This, however, embarrassing as it was to the individual in question, did not seriously delay
the work of the department, which was well under way by the time the directors came together
in their private office, to declare the semiannual dividend which for many years the Guardian
had undeviatingly paid.  A trial balance, from gross figures, had been drawn off, so that the
President was able to report with reasonable exactitude on the condition of the company.  The
dividend was promptly declared, and this was followed by a more or less informal discussion
among the gentlemen around the big table.

"The increase in our surplus seems due mostly to the rise in value of some of our securities,"
Mr. Whitehill commented; "but the underwriting showing is much better for the last six months
than for the first.  I think our friend, Mr. Smith, is to be congratulated; and at the same
time I want to ask what he thinks of our prospects for the coming year."

"Well, from the underwriting viewpoint," Smith answered, "there is no reason why this year
should not be better than last, and several reasons why it should; but if you will pardon the
presumption of my going outside of my own department, I think our chance for an increased profit
lies more along financial than insurance lines."

"Mr. Smith thinks," said Mr. Wintermuth, "that there has not been a sufficient flexibility
in our investments--that we could do better with a larger cash balance and more liquid--or
easily liquidated--assets."

"And so we could," said Mr. Griswold.  He leaned forward with more interest than he had yet
shown.  "I have felt for some time," he continued, "that our management of our resources was
substantial and safe, but--without wishing to reflect on our President, whose conservatism
has been a tower of strength to us--I have also felt we were financially just a little old-fashioned."

"What would you suggest that we do?" inquired the President.  "My mind is entirely open on
the subject."

"Let me see the statement," said Mr. Griswold.  He regarded it carefully through his glasses.
"Well," he said, "there are several items on this, representing securities of which I advised
the purchase. This Schuylkill and Susquehanna Railroad and this Ninth National Bank."

"Ninth National--that's the bank the Duane crowd is trying to buy, isn't it?" asked another
director.

"Yes.  It's higher now than it has been for twenty years," said Mr. Wintermuth.

"And a great sight more than it's worth," Mr. Griswold commented.  "If it were mine, I'd get
out at the present price.  And I'd get out of Schuylkill and Susquehanna, too.  I don't want
to be quoted on this, you understand, but there's no reason for its selling at 160 except the
expectation of an extra dividend, and in my opinion all this talk of an extra dividend is just
rubbish.  I believe if we sold what we have to-morrow, we could get it back within six months,
if we wanted, at 135."

The gentlemen around the table were visibly impressed, as Mr. Griswold's reputation for sagacity
in such matters was more than metropolitan.

"Well, I move that the Finance Committee be empowered to recommend the sale of any of our securities,"
said another well-intentioned director. "And that on their recommendation the securities be
sold," he added somewhat lamely.

"The Finance Committee doesn't need any such resolution passed," said Mr. Griswold, with a
laugh.  "If I'm not greatly mistaken, it's always had such powers.  But I'm glad to learn that
it is now the desire of the directorate that we should use them."

It was only a few days after this that Smith, having stopped on his way home to see a Pittsburgh
man who always put up at the Waldorf, met Mr. Griswold in the lobby of that hotel.

"Well, our Ninth National stock is sold," remarked that gentleman, casually.  "Four ninety-two."

"Good!" said the underwriter.  "I think we're well out."

"So do I," returned the other.  "By the way, did you notice the market to-day?"

"No."

"Closed weak.  Schuylkill and Susquehanna off two points and a half."

"Too bad we didn't get out of that, too," said Smith.  "I remember you said it was too high."

"It still is," returned the financier, dryly.  "But we got out.  We sold every share we had,
at the opening, this morning."

Smith looked at him.

"You mean--?" he asked.

"I mean that a good big cash balance is often a handy thing to have. And just now I'd rather
have cash than stocks.  I don't mean there's going to be a panic, or anything like that, but
everything's very high. They may go some higher, but they'll certainly go a good deal lower.
And I don't think that we'll have to wait very long.  Good-night--glad to have seen you."

"Good-night," replied Smith, thoughtfully.

CHAPTER XX

In the Deerfield Street apartment a young man stood waiting with perhaps less calm than was
strictly Oriental.  This could no doubt be attributed to the fact that he anticipated with
distinct pleasure the coming of somebody, while a true Oriental never really anticipates anything--or
if he does, the thought gives him no delight.

But Smith, as he sat in the straight-backed chair, felt very glad indeed that he was about
to see the somebody for whom he was waiting. The time which had elapsed since his most recent
trip to Boston had somehow gone with unconscionable slowness, and the medium of the mails had
proved an alternative means of communication only measurably compensating.  He had, in short,
discovered that a great deal of his life was concerned with the girl whose footsteps were now
to be heard advancing down the hall.

"I'm awfully glad to see you," said Miss Maitland.

"And I you," returned the visitor; and if the words carried only the conventionalities, each
found a way to make them more significant.

"Mother will be in to welcome you," the girl continued.  "It's a compliment she doesn't pay
everyone," she added, with a smile.  "She doesn't care, as a rule, for young gentlemen visitors.
By the way, we have plenty of time, have we not, before we need to start?"

"Fully twenty minutes," he answered.  "I guess I'm absurdly early, but I thought I ought to
give the young lady an opportunity to get acquainted with me before starting out alone with
me in a taxi."

"Are we ever acquainted with any one?" the girl parried; and a moment later the conversation
shifted to meet the entrance of Mrs. Maitland.

Shortly before eight o'clock they set forth for the theater.  It was the evening of the twenty-first
of February, and the following day, Sunday, was also a holiday in memory of a great man.  It
was of him that they chanced to speak, almost on entering their conveyance.

"I'm glad to-morrow is a holiday," said Smith.  "After a party on the previous night it is
always soothing to think one isn't obliged to get up at any particular hour in the morning.
But I don't suppose that point of view would appeal to you."

"No," said his companion, with a laugh.  "I much prefer having something particular to get
up for.  But as I seldom have, I presume that's merely another way of saying that every one
wants what one hasn't got.  I fancy if I had to appear punctually at breakfast every morning,
I'd appreciate holidays a great deal more than I do now."

"I used to think we had too many.  That was because it tears things up so abominably in an
insurance office to get two or three days' work slammed at you at once.  But I'm reconciled
now.  And if we celebrate for any one, we certainly ought to do so for George."

"Seriously speaking, why?" Helen asked.  "Probably I should be ashamed of myself, but I've
never been able to get up as much enthusiasm for him as I feel I should.  Can you tell me any
way of doing so?"

"I can tell you how I came to, at all events," said her companion. "The story may not be so
romantic, but it made more of a hit with me than the account of the same heroic gentleman nearly
freezing to death at Valley Forge, or standing up in a boat while he crossed the Delaware,
which is a silly thing to do, even for a hero.  Nothing of that sort.  But somewhere--I forget
just where--I ran across the account of a little episode which showed me that the General was
a man of real ability, after all."

"What was it?" asked the girl, with interest.

"Well, it seems that some earnest society of antiquaries had been digging up the back yards
of Rhode Island and making idiots of themselves generally in an effort to prove that the Vikings
came to America."

"But they did come, didn't they?" Helen interrupted.

"Of course they did; but it wasn't known in Washington's time. However, somebody with a vein
of enterprise or malice had salted a Viking mine, so to speak, and under the auspices--and
the pay--of the society had contrived to exhume a stone tablet on which were some extremely
apropos inscriptions, proving exactly what the amiable old gentlemen desired to prove."

"About the Vikings?"

"Yes.  Well, the discovery of this tablet made a deep impression.  The society held meetings
and passed resolutions and went through all kinds of ponderous and absurd conventionalities,
culminating in asking General Washington--at that time I don't believe he was President--to
make a speech.  He came over from Boston, and they showed him the tablet.  And after he had
looked it carefully over, he casually called their attention to the fact that the inscription,
which was supposed to have been cut in the eleventh century, contained script characters which
appeared in no northern alphabet prior to the sixteen hundreds. And what is more, when they
looked it up, they found that he was right."

"That is really very interesting," Helen said.

"It gave me a respect for him that I'd never had before, anyway," rejoined Smith.  "Think of
the old General knowing anything at all about Icelandic sagas--and the offhand way he picked
out the anachronism and smashed it in the eye.  No--so far as I am concerned, he is entitled
to his holiday.  Long may it wave--especially as I hope to see you, if you'll let me, while
if it were an ordinary business day I should probably have to devote myself to certain distinguished
legal gentlemen."

"How is the lawsuit progressing?" asked the girl.

Smith surveyed her doubtfully.

"Have you seen Mr. Osgood recently?" he inquired suspiciously.  "One time, you remember, you
made me tell a long story all of which you knew perfectly well before I began."

"No--honestly," Helen laughingly denied.  "I have hardly seen Uncle Silas for two or three
weeks, and the last time we met, he said nothing about it."

"Well, then, in confidence it is my hope and belief that unless our present expectations fall
through with a sickening thud, another month or two will see the Guardian and your uncle back
in the office that neither of them should ever have left."

"Not really!" said the girl, delighted.

"I have no longer any real doubt of it," Smith said seriously.  "It can hardly fail now.  I
don't mind saying to you that it's about time, too. The Conference has made a good fight; but
they were beaten from the start, and they know it now.  And I'll be very glad to see some Boston
business coming in to us again, I can assure you."

"Haven't you been getting any this last year?"

"Only a little, principally suburban business through a small agent named George Greenwood.
Of course we got a lot through Sternberg, Bloom, and McCoy, but it was so bad that I canceled
nearly every policy they wrote for us.  All the Guardian has left in the down-town district
is some building business--a few lines written by the Osgood office for three or five years,
and which haven't expired yet.  And there aren't many of them, for Cole switched some into
the Salamander, and besides, we always tried to keep our congested district business on an
annual basis.  If Boston burned to-morrow, I don't believe the Guardian would lose more than
a hundred thousand dollars."

"That sounds to me like quite a loss."

"So it is, but it's only a small fraction of what most companies have at risk here.  I'm really
not sure but that a year ago we didn't have more than we should.  I certainly know a lot of
companies that would sit up and take notice with a vengeance if a big fire ever did occur."

"Do you think one likely?" asked Helen.  "It makes one shudder just a little to think of it."

"No--probably not.  Still, there's really no reason why one shouldn't happen here as well as
elsewhere.  And big fires are certain to happen somewhere.  The city's improving right along,
but it's still got its possibilities."

"Yes," said the girl.  "For now that I come to think of it, I remember that the conflagration
hazard in the congested district is not a thing one can precisely calculate, but it would be
difficult to overestimate its gravity.  Isn't that so?"

Smith looked at her, turning in the taxi to do so.  By the flash of a street lamp that they
were passing he could see she was smiling whimsically.

"Where did you get that?" he demanded.

"Don't you recall?" she rejoined.  "Whether it's greatly to his credit or not, I can't judge,
but certainly he himself hath said it."

"That's true," her companion admitted, with a laugh.  "I remember now. But how in the world
did you happen to?"

"Should an humble apprentice--an ignorant pupil--forget the first pearl of wisdom that fell
from the master's lips?  It was the first speech of Mr. Richard Smith that I ever heard repeated--the
first time I ever heard his name mentioned."

"If I'd had any idea it would have lived so long, I certainly would have tried to say something
more eloquent," the other returned. "However, I still stand by the sentiment.  And incidentally,
I don't mind saying that if Boston is going to burn, I hope it does so inside of the next two
or three months--before Mr. Osgood puts the Guardian back with a half a million dollars' liability
scattered about down town."

"Don't talk of so terrible a possibility as the burning of Boston," said the girl.  "There
has been one very great fire here.  Surely there will never be another."

"Surely not," agreed Smith.  "At least for the sake of your fellow citizens and my fellow underwriters
I cordially hope not.  But here we are, apparently."

The taxi was coming to a stop across the street from the Aquitaine, and in front of the theater
where already a crowd was congregating.  The avenue between the theater itself and the Common
was filled with cabs and motor cars moving spasmodically about under the autocracy of a large
mounted policeman whose voice easily defied the whirring motors. In the raw northeast wind
there was the unpleasant smell and oily smoke of burnt-out gasolene.

Smith and Helen, disembarking at the curb, managed to avoid the worst of the mêlée; and presently,
when their coats were checked and out of the way, they reached their seats just as Christopher
Sly began his opening speech.  The prologue soon played itself through, and the house, now
completely filled, burst audibly into speech, as though a long departed sense had been suddenly
and miraculously restored.  From all sides the swelling tide surged forth, and Helen listened
for a moment before she herself spoke.

"You would certainly suppose that no one of them had been allowed to speak for the last five
years, wouldn't you?" she asked.

"Oh, well," Smith answered, "perhaps every one of them has some one he's as glad to talk to
as I am to you.  Although, come to think of it, I hear several voices not possessed by my sex,
and I don't know but that I would really rather listen to you."

"But you won't have the opportunity," the girl rejoined.  "No, this is your party, and you
must be as agreeable and entertaining as you possibly can.  You may begin by telling me all
about the actors to-night.  Why does the star choose to play such a part as old Sly?  It surely
isn't the star part, is it?"

"It is the tradition--or years ago it used to be.  Very few actors do it now; in fact, this
is the first time I've seen the star play it for years.  It's well done, too, and I haven't
seen it well done since old George Clark had his last curtain.  This man is a good man."

"He is indeed.  I noticed in the Transcript he was English.  Is she his wife?  I gathered that
she was."

"Yes.  They've been playing together in London for several years now, and this is their first
trip to America.  I fancy that he is the real brains and ability of the combination, and her
reputation seems mainly to rest on adding obedience and decorative embellishment to his effects.
And she certainly is decorative, don't you think?"

"Yes--in a certain way.  Tell me--do they always play Shakespeare?  I was in London two years
ago, but I don't recall hearing anything about them at that time.  I should think I would if
they'd been there."

"That's odd.  I should surely have thought you'd have heard of them. They've been well known
over there for some years.  I suppose, though, they play the provinces, like every one else.
No, they don't play Shakespeare all the time, by any means; they couldn't do it and live."

"You mean that they couldn't get audiences?  Why, some actors do. Mantell, for instance--and
Sothern and Marlowe.  They seem to go on year after year, and they must be at least moderately
successful, or they wouldn't keep it up."

"Mantell ought to; he is a real actor--of the traditional school, of course--but great, all
the same.  It has always seemed to me that his Lear was one of the fine performances of the
stage to-day.  But even Mantell has to travel halfway across the country every season; he couldn't
stay in New York--no, nor in intellectual and appreciative Boston, either.  And I doubt whether
a man would fare much better trying to play nothing but Shakespeare in London.  No, this man
can play virtually anything; he made his first big hit--in recent years, that is--playing Maldonado
in Pinero's 'Iris.'"

"But go back to Sothern and Marlowe.  They go on Shakespearing, world without end."

"If you can call it Shakespeare.  I have never been able to see much in their way of doing
it.  Marlowe does some things well, but I confess that to see her now as Juliet is too great
a strain on me.  As for Sothern, he's a good romantic actor, but not a Shakespearean one."

"They play this---'The Taming of the Shrew'--do they not?  It seems to me they were here last
spring."

"Quite likely.  I think they try.  One wet and miserable night I went to see.  But remembering,
as I did, the immortal Katherine of Rehan and the hardly less magnificent Petruchio of Skinner,
I never should have gone.  There was only one redeeming feature."

"What was that?"

"When the scene comes, watch how this man carries Katherine off. That's one great test.  See
if he backs her up onto a bench; see if he guides her premeditated fall to the precise center
of equilibrium of his shoulders; see if he staggers painfully off with his knees tottering,
almost flapping beneath him.  By heavens, I have seen Skinner abduct a one hundred and sixty
pound Katherine with as little effort as if she had been a wicker basket full of eggshells!"

"Is this dramatic criticism?" asked Helen, maliciously.

"Perhaps not of the academic brand," admitted Smith, laughingly; "but I believe it's good sound
criticism just the same.  If a man is going to play the swashbuckler, I like to see him able
to swash his buckle.  But seriously, I shouldn't have objected to that one bad piece of business
if it hadn't seemed to me that the whole performance was out of key and wrong.  But here's
the curtain going up."

The curtain rose on Signor Baptista's house, and for the next half hour farce comedy supreme
held the audience in its grasp.

"Katherine is very good, don't you think?" queried Helen, when once more the inane wanderings
of the orchestra began to compete with the conversation.

"Very good indeed; I like her rages."

"I have always been sorry that I never saw Ada Rehan; every one who ever saw her says just
as you do that no one could equal her."

"I'm sure no one could.  I have seen her sit with her hands in her lap and tears--genuine tears--streaming
down her cheeks for very rage when Petruchio harries her in this act.  Heavens! but she was
in a fine fury!  Do you know that the only objection I ever had to this play was that I grew
sorry for Katherine--sorry to see her proud neck bent to any yoke, so to speak."

"She is made finally to like it, though."

"Yes; she is--in the play.  But I never could more than half believe that she actually liked
it, for all that.  Oh, I've no doubt it's wrong to prefer ungoverned wrath to sane and controlled
sobriety; but she was so magnificent in her savagery that it seemed a shame she had to be tamed
at all.  Like the lions and the other animals that they train to jump through hoops, you miss
something, you know; some splendid essence has evaporated, and I for one am sorry to watch it go."

"They tell me," said the girl, demurely, "that under the proper conditions and auspices young
ladies are secretly glad to be subjugated."

"I suppose they have it naturally--cradle of the race, and all that sort of thing.  Just the
same, I still continue to prefer Katherine in her first state."

"You speak of her as though she were an etching."

"She suggests one, in that gown she wore in the last act--or would, except for the color."

"From that rather supercilious remark I should gather that you do not admire colored etchings."

"Hybrid affairs, don't you think?"

But before this subject could be pursued, the play once more resumed the center of the stage.

It is the immortal prototype of farce comedy, this play of the "Taming of the Shrew."  In the
hands of a lesser author it would have lost its comedy and degenerated purely into farce, restricting
itself to more ignoble aims and to a more indulgent public.  For farce, after all, is farcical,
and the mood for its appreciation is not one which is sympathetic to any great or moving thing.
And in the hands of interpreters less than intelligently fine, the play may still descend into
the lower class; but this cannot be done without degrading it beyond any likeness to its real self.

Played rightly, however, Petruchio becomes not a brawler, not a kind of damn-my-eyes bully
and braggart, but a practical idealist, a man who, happening by chance upon a creature of stupendous
undirected power, sets himself to the direction of that power toward nature's, if not humanity's,
ends.  At the first he cares nothing for Katherine save that the rumor of her fire and spirit
has pleased his wild fancy.  And never is there the faintest hint of the sentimentalist about
him; his is never the softness of the lover, but rather the careful prudence of the utilitarian.
Yet he unstintedly admires Katherine; this is somehow felt to be so by his rather pompous implication
that he would hardly be taking all this trouble about the woman were she not the makings of
a royal mate, fit even for his sky-wide vision and heart and humor.

Perhaps in Elizabethan days most of this was lost; possibly during the author's own life the
play assumed rather the wild gayety and license of a farce, and all the comedy had to wait
in abeyance for the years to bring it into its own.  Undoubtedly very few, if any, of the auditors
of Shakespeare's time felt the compunction to which Smith confessed when the pride of a proud
woman was seen dragged at a man's chariot wheel.  What the women of those days thought about
it is not so certain, but probably it was pretty much what they think to-day. Certainly Helen's
expressed view was in approximate accordance with the presumably unexpressed opinion of Elizabethan
ladies; and to this, in the intermission before the last act, Smith called her attention.

"Do you realize that your belief that Katherine was pleased at being conquered is not at all
modern?--it's absolutely medieval."

"Well, we are all medieval--quite largely--are we not?"

"Possibly--in spots.  When the girl of to-day is not overpoweringly advanced, perhaps she is
quite far behind.  But I should hardly have expected so distinctly a medieval opinion from you."

"Heavens! why not?  I sound horribly Bostonian.  Am I so hopelessly advanced that you can credit
me with no human sentiments at all?"

"Well, that," said Smith, "was scarcely my thought."

"It sounded very much like it.  However, I'm glad if I were mistaken."

"You know very well," said her companion, in a lower voice, "what I think of you.  I think--"

"Oh, but I don't--really," Helen quickly parried.  This was getting hazardous; the conversation
must be switched at once.  "No matter what you think of me, you are almost sure to be quite
mistaken.  But some things I am willing to confess.  And one of them, which may be very primitive,
is this--that just because I myself am not a wild, tigress-like creature is no indication that
I cannot realize how she would feel.  Is it, now?"

Smith said nothing for a long moment.

"I'm very glad that you feel that way about it," he said at last, rather to himself, however,
than to her.  And for the rest of the intermission he hardly spoke.

It was by this time about half-past ten.  Here and there in the house a vacated seat showed
that some hopeless and inveterate commuter had felt the call of his homeward street car or
train.  Never in Boston can an entire audience remain to the close of an entertainment; the
lure of the thronging, all-pervading suburb is too strong.  Helen, idly watching the exodus
of these prudent or sleepy citizens, heard outside what might have been the warning bell that
called them forth.  She directed Smith's attention to the coincidence.

"They have to go home, you know; and that sounds like the signal they obey."

"It sounds to me like a fire engine," said her companion.

But further speculation was cut short by the sight of "A Road," where presently was to be seen
the old man who was so oddly mistook for a "young, budding virgin," and on which soon beat
the doubtful rays of the "blessed sun"--or moon, as the case might be.  The intermission between
the last two scenes of the act was a brief one only--the mere moment required for the rising
of a scene curtain upon the banquet hall of Katherine's father.  But during that little interval,
two things came to Smith's notice; the first being the sound of vague noises in the outside
world, and the second the peculiar behavior of a man in evening clothes at the extreme side
of the stage aperture.

The seats which the two occupied were in the lower rows of the parquet, close under the right-hand
stage box; and from where they sat it was thus possible to look into the wings on the opposite
side of the stage. It was in the little opening between the proscenium and the curtain that
the man in evening dress unexpectedly appeared.  His appearance caught Smith's eye, and he
watched curiously to see what was to follow. In his hand this person held a watch at which
he glanced hastily, and then made two steps to come before the footlights.  But just as he
was nearly clear of the scenes, some one out of sight in the wing evidently summoned him, for
he stopped short, and then turned back.  After a brief colloquy, in which the watch was again
consulted, he retired, and a moment later the curtain went up.

It seemed to Smith, watching closely, his curiosity aroused by this half-seen and wholly uncomprehended
episode, that the actors in the last act were playing under the pressure of an odd excitement,
a sort of suppressed anxiety and haste.  It seemed to him they hurried through their lines,
and the messengers to the brides came back with an electric promptness more to be desired in
real life than in the circumstances of the play.

Finally the whole was done--all except Katherine's final address to the ladies, and this took
but a brief moment.  Smith, listening tensely to sounds from without, turned and spoke to Helen;
and as the curtain fell they started quickly up the aisle.  Their seats chanced to be open
to the side aisle of the house, and a moment later Smith was handing his check to the cloakroom
attendant, with a "Hurry up, please"--and a lubricant to celerity.

The applause was still to be heard in the theater, but after one brief bow the actors appeared
no more, and the house began to empty.  By this time Smith had reclaimed the wraps, and he
and Helen, ready for the open air, moved out through the lobby and onto the sidewalk in front
of the theater.

On the sidewalk there was a curious tone of constrained excitement. Evidently something much
out of the ordinary had happened--or was happening.  People stood in groups, staring northward
up Tremont Street; and almost all the passers-by, as though impelled by a nameless, inexplicable
force that could not be controlled, were hurrying in the same direction.  An ambulance with
clattering gong dashed by.  The urgent crowds, pouring out of the big theater, were pressing
Smith and Helen toward the curb.

"Come on," said the New Yorker, "something's up; let's get out of this."  He took the girl's
arm, and they crossed Boylston Street and made their stand on the opposite, less crowded walk
that edged the Common.

On the sidewalk about them knots of people were eagerly talking, all looking northward as though
drawn by the same magnetic force.  And as Smith and his companion raised their eyes, they saw
in the northern sky an ugly crimson glare that seemed to widen and grow brighter even in the
moment as they watched it.  From far up Tremont Street, carried by the wind, came an odd murmur
of confused noises, and nearer by the sharper sounds of clanging bells and the clatter of galloping
horses' feet on the pavement.  The crowds were hurrying up the walk, and out in the street,
where it was less crowded, men were running in the same direction.  The trolley cars seemed
to have been blocked; none were coming from the north.

"Great Scott!  That must be something terrific!" Smith said, and he felt the beat of his heart
perceptibly quicken.

But before he had time to make any further remark, from directly behind them came with the
electric unexpectedness of a sharp thunder clap one loud cry, compelling, exigent, almost barbaric.

"Fire!" it said.  "Fire!"

CHAPTER XXI

In the eastern sky abode only the pale gold reflection of the city's lights.  To the westward,
across the Common, the soft blackness under the stars descended even to the treetops.  But
the attention of Smith and Helen, gazing north on Tremont Street, was fixed on the unsteady
glow of threatening, reddish light thrown up against the absorbing fabric of the air.

"Good heavens!  Just look at that!" Smith said, pointing.

"It must be a very bad fire--don't you think so?" inquired the girl.

"It looks from here like a corker.  It's certainly bad enough to make it well worth seeing,"
he returned.  "Do you want to telephone your mother that you're going?"

"Are we going, then?" asked Helen.

"To the fire?" demanded her companion.  "Of course we are going.  Fires are my business, besides
being the greatest spectacles in the world. Let's go over to the Aquitaine, and we'll telephone."

A few minutes later they came out again; Smith motioned to the driver of a taxi.

"Get in," he said to Helen.  "You shall ride to the fire like a lady, in a cab."

As he spoke he noted how the wind was blowing the girl's hair about her face, and for just
an instant he gave that vision its individual due.

"Take us as near the fire as you can get," he directed the chauffeur.

From Boylston Street up Tremont to its intersection with Beacon is a ride of barely two minutes.
It seemed as though almost no time had elapsed before the taxi came to a stop beside the Palmer
House.  The two occupants descended; Smith paid the man; the vehicle slid off into space beyond
their ken.  And at that very moment their eyes sprang to where, barely a block away, great
tongues of red fire licked above a wide building's roof--and all else but that thing faded
into nothing.

"This way," said the New Yorker, tersely.  They crossed School Street, continuing up Tremont
until they were opposite the old King's Chapel Burial Ground.  From this point, over the top
of the City Hall, they could see the flames riding high in air above a big five- and seven-story
building.

"My God!  That must be Black's Hotel!" said a voice in the crowd behind them.

"Sure, that's what it is," volunteered a policeman who was keeping the fire lines.

"Were any lives lost?" Smith asked.

"No.  Every one got out all right.  It didn't start in the hotel. They're very careful, and
they have a fine fire drill, anyway.  There was plenty of time to warn every one."

Out of the north came a crisp wind.  Not content with blowing, as it had done before, Helen's
hair about her ears, it also whipped her skirts urgently about her.  Smith calculated this
wind, and shook his head dubiously.

"Twenty-five miles an hour, I should think," he said.  "Rather bad night for a big fire.  I
wonder if we can get a little closer."

From where they stood it seemed that the fire was in the heart of the block bounded by Court
Square, Court, School, and Washington Streets. The north half of this block was occupied chiefly
by Black's Hotel, one of the best-known hostelries in New England, and the south half by the
newspaper plant of the Boston News and by several smaller buildings. Between the two sections
of the block ran a narrow lane known as Williams Court; and at the time when Smith and Helen
became spectators, the fire was pouring from every window of the big hotel and proving triumphant
over all efforts to keep it from leaping the almost imperceptible southern barrier.

"How long has this been going?" Smith asked the policeman.

"About an hour and a half, I guess.  I've been here since quarter to ten."

"Do you suppose we could go through the lines?" Smith inquired.  "I've got a New York fire badge."

"All right for you, sir--I'll pass you on it--but not for the lady."

This did not admit of an argument.

"Now, aren't you sorry you brought me?" asked the girl.

"Well, no," said her companion.  "Hardly--yet.  Let's try a little strategy."

In front of them School Street was filled with wild turmoil.  Here were hose carts and gray,
snaky hose lines stretching along the pavement in weird, curves and spurting tiny streams from
imperfect couplings; here were firemen rushing excitedly back and forth, hoarsely calling orders
which no one seemed to hear.  Along the curb were chemicals, hook and ladders, patrols, all
of them now stripped of their apparatus; while at every corner beside a hydrant, each one chugging
steadily away like the regular, vibrant pulse from some giant heart, were the fire engines.
Out of their funnels poured a steady flare of cinders and smoke; on the pavement beneath them
the embers lay crimson; and the scarlet flashes, whenever the fire doors were opened, showed
the glowing furnaces within.

Retracing their steps toward Tremont Street, Smith and Helen skirted the Tremont Temple, then
east along Bosworth until they came to Province Street.  Up this narrow passage, which passes
as such only by a courtesy peculiarly Bostonian, they went, finding themselves presently back
almost where they had started, but at a point of vantage whence they could see the western
face of the fire, which was now beginning to threaten hungrily westward toward the stout old
stone walls of the City Hall.

And now the building of the Boston News, although protected by a system of automatic sprinklers,
was thoroughly ablaze, as was the Miles Block immediately fronting City Hall Avenue.  It was
from this last building that the City Hall stood in jeopardy.

In Province Street, protected from the surge of activities beyond, the onlookers could watch
most of the fight to save the old building.  And a gallant fight it was, for the space between
the fire and the coping of the old stone structure's eastern wall was a scant thirty feet.
Fortunately, however, the wind was blowing almost directly from the north, and this gave the
firemen a chance.  From the movements of the department and the snatches of orders which could
occasionally be heard, Smith gathered that a similar struggle was going on in at least three
directions from the blazing block.  To west, to south, and to east the flames were leaning,
and the narrow streets made the task of holding them additionally hazardous.

Meanwhile the heat, even in Province Street, had become intense. Together with the other onlookers,
Smith and Helen found it necessary to take refuge in the doorways and behind an angle of a
building which projected slightly beyond the rest of the row, from which point they looked
forth in turn, shading their faces and eyes with their hands. All at once, looking upward,
they saw a cloud of smoke suddenly replace the glare directly north.  The next moment a dull
sound from the Miles Block was heard, and Smith saw its western cornice sway.

"We'd better get out of this, quick," he said.  "A wall fell then--the west wall of that building
there.  That ought to save the City Hall, if they handle it right; but it'll make this alley
too hot to hold us. Come on!"

Side by side the two hurried back with the crowd along the narrow way. Their departure was
taken none too soon.  Behind them they could feel a wave of heat radiated from the ruins of
the burning structure; it forced its way even through the little street down which they were
retreating, and they could feel the hot blast upon their backs.

"Something more must have fallen then," said Smith; but he did not turn his head.  Instead
he took the girl's arm with a firmer grip, and they continued swiftly on their way until they
came safely into Bromfield Street and out of the pursuing wave of heat.

"Let's cross over to Washington," Smith said.

On Washington Street, at first, little could be distinguished, and the police were none too
gently forcing the crowds even farther back.  But a block to the north, at School Street, which
only a moment before these two had just quitted, there was to be seen a wild confusion. Fire
engines were here, too, chugging at every hydrant, and the passage was fairly clogged with
hose and apparatus of all sorts, with nervous horses, and shouting, swearing, excited men.
As Smith looked closer he saw that the firemen were no longer entering School Street to the
west from Washington; they were being driven back instead.  And a moment later he saw also
a lieutenant raise his arm in a signal.

"There comes an ambulance," he said gravely,

"What is it?  What do you suppose has happened?" Helen anxiously asked.

"Fireman hurt, undoubtedly.  Unless I miss my guess, somebody was caught when that wall fell.
That must have been what caused the wave that chased us down that alley.  See!--they're bringing
them out!"

Three times the stretcher moved back and forth across Washington Street.  At last the ambulance
drove away.

"All it could carry," commented Smith, grimly.

It was now evident that the department was being forced out of School Street.  The wall which
had fallen had entirely blocked the narrow passage, and the heat from the blazing ruin was
so intense that no man could even obliquely face it.  It was also clear that a hard struggle
would be necessary to prevent the fire from leaping eastward across Washington Street.

Northward along the street from behind them, clanging its gong with insistence, came now a
chief's wagon, its black horses plunging forward, open of nostril, reckless of all.  Standing
erect in his place, this man took an instant survey of the situation, and then began shouting
orders to his subordinates in a way that seemed somehow to make itself felt above the uproar.

"He must have come around from the other side," said Smith.  "Now he's taking charge in front."

However so, the effect of his instructions could be noted almost at once.  Several of the engines
withdrew into Milk Street; others moved northward along Washington; still others southward,
but all away from the now threatened point, which was the southwest corner of Washington and
School Streets.  It was plain that all efforts were to be directed toward preventing the fire
from jumping east of this, and it was with this purpose that the street was being cleared--the
decks cleared for action.  And well might they be, for on the eastern corners, directly across
from this point of highest hazard, were two buildings, each an object of peculiar interest
and even reverence to Bostonians.  One of these was the Old South Church; the other the home
of the Boston Transcript--palladia both.

"Clear the street--get those people out of the way," came the abrupt order, and Smith and Helen
found themselves hastily retreating toward Tremont Street, where for a few moments at least
they might hope to be undisturbed.

Not so.  Tremont Street was now all that Washington had been a few minutes before; and with
a tremendous crowd of onlookers the two found themselves steadily forced back and out into
the Common.  In the space before Tremont Temple the fire fighters seemed thick as bees, and
from their manner Smith knew that they were dealing with a situation very close at hand.

"I bet anything that the Palmer House has caught," he said to Helen.

"You're dead right, Bill," called a voice in answer.  "The whole School Street front's going.
This is a fire, that's what it is--take it from me."  The voice trailed off into the whirlpool
of sounds, but Smith had heard all that he needed to know.

"This is more than a fire," he said gravely, his lips close to the girl's ear.  "It is a conflagration.
With a thirty-mile wind like this, blowing right into the heart of the city, no one can tell
where it will stop.  We had better go home."

"Go home!  Why, what time is it?" asked his companion in surprise. "We've only just gotten here!"

"We have been here," said Smith, consulting his watch, "just about an hour and a half.  It
is now twenty minutes to one."

"Twenty minutes to one?" exclaimed Helen.  "My mother will certainly think we're lost.  But
I hate to go.  It is magnificent, even if it is terrible."

"Yes," said the other.  "Just the same, Deerfield Street is the best place for you.  I wonder
if there's a cab in sight."

As it developed, there was none.

"Let us try the subway, then," the New Yorker went on.  "Perhaps the cars are still running
in there."

It was a silent couple that made its belated way home to Deerfield Street.  Helen's eyes were
bright with excitement and her face was flushed; but Smith was almost too preoccupied to notice
the added brilliance which this gave to the girl's beauty.  He parted from her at the door
of the Maitlands' apartment.

"You had better go to sleep as soon as you can," he said.  "Try to forget all about this business.
To-morrow afternoon, when it's over, I'll come around, if I may, and tell you all I know about it."

"I shall be home to-morrow afternoon," the girl replied.  "But what are you going to do now?"

"Oh, I expect I shall go back to the fire for a while," he said carelessly; "but I don't intend
to stay up all night.  Don't worry. I'll see you to-morrow about four--or earlier, if there's
anything of importance to tell you.  Good-night."

The door closed on him.

Meanwhile, furiously driven by the wind out of the north, the fire had taken a giant's dimensions
for its own.  Shortly after one o'clock the entire block between Tremont and Washington, School
and Bromfield was one vast seething furnace from whose throat the fire burst now southward
and upward with a roar.  The wind was bringing its element of peril to add to the conflagration's
own; it caught the white heat from the blazing mass of buildings and started it sweeping southward
in a devastating wave of superheated fluid air.

As the man on the Common had said, this was a fire--but rather was it Fire, the essence of
the god, the very burning breath of Loki.  The city was in the hand of something greater than
chance and more sinister than circumstance.

But the firemen did not realize this.  When Smith found himself once more approaching the northern
end of the Common, he could see that the fire had changed its humor.  It was no longer a gambler,
dicing with the fire fighters to determine whether it should live or die; it had taken on surety
and become a tyrant, an absolute dictator, a juggernaut--and it would not pause now till all
its grim play was played, or its humor changed, or some breath mightier than its own should
quell it.  But the firemen did not see this.

They were working like madmen now, facing a thousand hazards, unseeing yet noticing all, undirected
save by words which they could hardly hear and even more hardly comprehend.  There was not,
however, even for their stout hearts, any longer the faintest hope of meeting their enemy face
to face.  The heated blast, borne on the wind's wings, entirely prevented that.  All that the
department could endeavor now to do was to restrict the conflagration's lateral spread, to
keep the daemon in the track he had chosen, and not allow him to stray to east or west. But
they reckoned without his whimsy.

There was a stray puff of wind to westward; there was a sudden cry of men mortally hurt, of
horses suddenly tortured.  Out from the windows of the Phipps Building a flood of flame sprang
west; expelled from the tottering structure by some inward impulse, perhaps by an explosion
of smothered air, this sheet of heat and flame, of unburned and burning gases, leaped Tremont
Street as a rabbit leaps a ditch.  Simultaneously the Tremont Street face of the old Park Street
Church burst into flame, and along the rear of the buildings which fringed the ancient burial
ground the fire crept.  Under the eaves of these buildings it ran, and a moment later the line
of brick structures on Park Street was briskly ablaze, and once more the fire fighters' flank
had been turned.

Quickly this westward adventure proceeded.  So unexpected had been this attack that it was
some time before the department could adjust its front.  Tremont Street, moreover, which was
now untenable, held much apparatus, and most of this was burned where it stood.  Straight up
the slope toward Beacon Street and toward the gold dome of the State House the fire errantly
went.  Blank walls between buildings seemed to make little difference to it; what it could
not pierce it ran around.  Only at the extreme end of the burial ground did it pause.  Here
a seven-story fireproof building confronted it, and proved equal to the task.  Against the
solid walls of this barrier the impetuous visitor beat in vain, and then, just as suddenly
as he had begun his foray, he subsided.  The final sputter of his dying, under the hose streams
of his foes, sounded for all the world like a chuckle.  It was as if this wandering creature
had signified that he had accomplished his purpose in giving the department a good scare, and
that he might as well stop. The firemen stood for a moment to catch breath, gazing on the havoc
wrought by this wild half hour; then, coiling up their hose, they went to await new orders.

It was now almost two o'clock.  The fire had been burning for four hours; it had completely
destroyed two entire city squares and part of a third, and its course was manifestly just begun.
To the north and west it had strayed as far as it was to go, for the north wind made it impossible
for it to spread farther in that direction, and its westward swing, as has just been seen,
had been checked.  The unrestrained main line of the conflagration was therefore almost due
south, following the direction of the wind's impulsion, but also it tended toward the east,
since all great fires strive, fanlike, to open out.  This tendency on the west the Common effectually
vitiated, and the firemen's plan of campaign was proportionately simplified.

The obvious course now to be pursued was to mass the opposing forces along the east flank of
the conflagration, restricting so far as possible its spread in that direction, for since the
wind made it impossible to face the fire, no hope lay in direct opposition save perhaps through
the thunderous agency of dynamite.  On these lines the defense set to work anew.

After a thrilling struggle Old South Church had been saved; the concentration of the fire fighters
around its corner had been efficacious.  The stout old structure which had survived so many
years of winters out of the east had survived one peril more.  Its brick walls stood with their
paint cracked and split, its tower tottered, scorched and feeble, but the building itself was
intact.  Score one to Boston, and to the indomitable forces battling for her preservation.

Not without a fearful cost, however, had this victory been gained, for the east side of Washington
Street, from the Transcript down, was now a flowing field of raging flame.  Here there were
no fireproofs to give momentary obstacles; one risk, it is true, had automatic sprinklers inside
and out, but the water from these, while it lasted, only added steam to the confusion and fuel
to the fire, while the great roof tank in its falling tore out the very heart of the stricken
building. Hawley Street, farther on, was no barrier at all to a fire of such fury as this,
and the unprotected windows at the rear of the Franklin Street row added their helpless nakedness
to a situation in which nothing was a buckler.

Very orderly, irresistible without vagary, now became the fire's progress.  Terrible in its
absolute precision, in its measured advance down the wind, this implacable river of flame rolled
down the city. Far ahead of the actual fire itself ran its fatal forerunner, the sheet of gases
and superheated air, sometimes level, sometimes high lifted at the whim of the breeze, but
always fierce, always southward, always with annihilation in its grip.  There was no staying
this deadly force and no facing it; farther than any hose stream could reach sped this outrider
in advance of the devastating thing whose messenger it was.

Men from the United States Navy Yard at Charlestown were dynamiting buildings along Summer
Street now, in the hope of gaining a respite by reducing the amount of fuel in the path of
the main advance.  The air was heavy with smoke, with the odor of charred embers and burning
wood and merchandise, and the shock of the dynamiting added new heaviness to an almost unbreathable
element.  So acrid had the atmosphere become that the men in the front ranks of the struggle
were compelled to breathe through rags and handkerchiefs soaked in water.  Many men dropped
where they stood, to be dragged back by their comrades and revived by the ambulance surgeons.

Franklin Street proved no more of a southern barrier than had the others before it.  On the
corner of Hawley Street stood an eight-story fireproof, sprinklered building, filled principally
with crockery. Upon this the conflagration advanced as relentlessly as fate.  Long before the
flames themselves had reached it, the windows broke under the heat of the advancing gases,
and little fires began to appear on the upper floors.  Soon all the windows were alight, and
this building too shook beneath the force which there was no escaping.  Its frame, to be sure,
stood bravely up, and after the fire was still to be seen, almost intact, a tribute to its
maker and design; but its contents, alas, were not fireproof, and proved pabulum most welcome
to the element which welcomed almost all things.

The firemen along the eastern fringe had been laboring with desperation.  It was the seventh
hour of steady battle, and many of them were almost overcome by exhaustion; but those who faltered
found their places taken by others, and the unequal struggle went on.  At this point Smith,
with his fire-line badge pinned to his coat in case of challenge, was turning his hand to anything
which seemed to need the doing.  A solid wall of fireproofs along Arch Street had held the
fire from spreading eastward there, but as Franklin Street was passed in the southward sweep,
the eastward urging was not wholly to be denied.  At five o'clock in the morning the four faces
of Winthrop Square were all involved, and the buildings along Devonshire Street had begun to
yield. Over at Washington and Tremont Streets the fire had now spread as far south as Bedford--and
the wind was still blowing steadily.

Gradually, for the last half hour, the velvet blackness of the upper sky had been fading; gradually
the sparks, as they mounted unceasingly, had begun to seem less luminous; and the waves of
smoke which had been rising all night into the upper air became for the first time a little
dark against the sky.  All night had this smoke been flung up from the burning city, and always
had it seemed white or reddish or dirty brown, as it rose; all night had the air hung close
in its smoky pall, seeming to shut in the sad theater wherein this drama was being played;
all night had the fire been torch and lantern and moon and stars to those who faced the fire.

Now, dimly across the eastern sky, was spread the first faint hint of a wondering dawn.  Far
out over the harbor a lightening could be seen, a prescience of day, and a ghostly half light,
like that in a dim cathedral, replaced the flame-lit darkness.  There were mists above the
water, and the light gained progress slowly; still, it gained, and presently the salt sea odors
came rolling in from the bay.  The water turned from black to silver-gray, the shadows faded
silently into nothingness, the hush that precedes daybreak seemed trying to steal into the
tortured air.  And men's eyes, turning from the flame and smoke and crashing walls, gave hopeless
welcome to the Day.

CHAPTER XXII

The morning broke upon a sight almost beyond imagination.  Through the darkness none had been
able or had cared to see the city save in fragmentary glimpses, caught by the fierce light
that flared and fell. Now, in the gray dawn, the city as a whole appeared beneath a smoky cowl,
looking mightier and more austere than ever under the shadow of this dreadful visitation. 
All sectional sights aforetime had been of single streets, of squares, of stray purlieus--but
now appeared the wide, sweeping stretch of the myriad roofs, the sturdy strength of brick and
steel, the compelling magnitude and silent, massive power of the whole.

In the north, where all was safe, the sky was fairly clear; but where the fire took its way
the smoke haze hung grim and close.  From the east the scene was a striking one.  Along the
water front of Fort Point Channel were the buildings gray and red; down Summer Street, which
lay like a canyon between walls of brick and stone, white steam and smoke rode in a seething
mist, lighted at odd times and places by keen flashes of crude red fire; over the roofs wavered
more steam and smoke, floating in some places like level banners which flapped in the wind,
while in others it seemed to wrap itself in dirty folds about some skeleton of what had yesterday
been a building.  At various points, and suggested by the premonitory roar of dynamite, rose
black, sinister columns of the densest smoke mingled with the dust of shattered buildings,
like the pictured outburst of some volcanic crater; and through and behind and implicitly within
all this the Fire moved upon its way.

It was about half-past seven in the morning when it was seen that all efforts to check the
flames at Summer Street had failed.  Along the north side of that thoroughfare lay the tumbled
ruins of the dynamited buildings, destroyed in a hopeless hope, for the remedy had been too
homeopathic and the disease too swift.  Indeed, it almost seemed as though the razing of these
structures had merely made more easy the progress of that river of unconsumed gases and air
which the steady wind drove undeviatingly forward upon the windows and the roofs which the
conflagration had not yet reached.  It was very much as though this flood of invisible heat
and destruction contained the sharp-shooters before an army's van; it was like the cavalcade
that rode before a Roman Emperor's triumph two thousand years ago; like the flight of arrows
which preceded the thunderous charge of English heavy soldiery on Continental battle grounds.

In the little triangle between three streets just west of Dewey Square stood a solidly built,
compact group of five- and six-story structures, one of them of fire-proof construction.  This
triangle, by a vagary, now proved to be a crucial point.  If this could be saved, probably
so also could the whole block to the south of Summer Street; but if it could not, then that
block too was doomed, and there was grave danger beside lest the district east of Federal Street
be also involved.  So on this precious spot the combined forces of defense concentrated.  In
Fort Point Channel four fireboats gave their powerful pumps to aid the engines; the firemen,
hanging close to their work, sent stream after stream of water against the attacking flame.

It was in vain.  After the most desperate endeavors, this little group went to join the rest,
the only fruit of victory being that Federal Street found itself the eastern barrier, the fire
north of Summer Street having been checked at that point.  Small triumph that! for the buildings
west of Dewey Square were now thoroughly ablaze--and the South Station was in danger.

In the open space known as Dewey Square, which is really nothing but the momentary widening
of Atlantic Avenue at its intersection with Summer, the elevated railroad has its tracks. 
These, raised some twenty feet above the street, extend north and south along the western face
of the South Station; there is a station at Essex Street, with stairways leading into the great
depot itself.  It was this elevated structure which now proved to be the compelling menace.

Suddenly, in what manner it could not be said, there was seen to be a serpent of flame swiftly
stealing along the Elevated's track.  A tiny frill of fire, under a feathery cloud of smoke,
ran down the wooden ties; sharp crackling sounds were heard; and a moment later the frame roof
of the raised depot burst into light.  One would hardly have thought that there was here sufficient
fuel to jeopardize greatly the stout stone walls of the South Station itself; even to the firemen,
skilled in such matters, risking their heads to drench those walls with water from a dozen
lines of hose, the hazard, while grave, seemed far from hopeless.  But this was not a day of
reason nor of precedents.  As the clock in the great facade showed five minutes before nine,
the western eaves of the South Station caught.

In this building, which is one of the busiest of the world's terminals, was little inflammable
material save that which was movable.  The structure was built almost entirely of brick and
stone and steel.  Much of the steel work, to be sure, was not so protected as to render it
fireproof; yet in the building there would ordinarily have been scant fuel for an ordinary
fire.  But this was not an ordinary fire.  Along the western side of the structure, where were
baggage rooms, offices, and the like, this irreverent intruder found congenial occupation.
In not more than twenty minutes this entire side of the Station was ablaze, and the flames
had begun to eat their way upward to the vast iron roof of the train shed, which hung in a
tremendous arch some eighty feet above the base of rail.  Stretching north and south down the
full length of this mighty shed stood at the summit of the arch a raised lantern, or texas.
Supporting the weight of this roof, wide spans of steel branched, curving upward from the walls
at east and west--and it was one of these walls whose integrity was now so bitterly beset.

A great fire makes its own fuel; it finds food where no food seems to be; stone walls crumble
like sugar before it; it devours iron like dry wood, and plays wild pranks with steel.  To
its grisly power and its reckless humor the Station was now to bear witness.

The west wall had begun to crumble, and cracked and spalled by the intense heat, not alone
of the direct fire, but also by radiation from the burning risks to westward, the stone was
giving way.  Down part of its length, where the cross walls came, it stood stoutly; but elsewhere
it began gradually to weaken.  Here and there a doorway broke into what might have been a solid
section; in one or two cases arches crumbled; in many others inside walls or beams or stairways,
falling, carried down with them another modicum of the long wall's resistive power.

Atlantic Avenue near the station was now untenable, and the fire fighters were divided.  Part
of them were north, but most of them were south of this latest scene in the play.  The disaster
here had done more than any other single occurrence in the progress of the conflagration to
demoralize the department and spread dismay in its ranks.  It may have been the fact that this
great building had been held to be safe beyond a doubt; it may have been merely that these
men had for nearly twelve hours been achieving and repeating the impossible, the heroic, and
that this last blow had been more than they could bear.  Their faces were gray beneath the
smoke and grime, their eyes stung and smarted almost unendurably from the heat and smoke and
their long vigil; and now for the first time since this whirling maelstrom had engulfed them,
they were finding the opportunity to realize that human endurance is not supernal.

There was another reason why they realized this now, and that was that the bitterness of this
last defeat had, for the moment, broken their hearts.  So long as they had fought with a gambler's
chance, with the barest hope of success, it was easy to forget they were hungry, were weary
unto death, were human at all.  But under the numbing stroke of this last setback, they suddenly
felt all these things.

The most heart-breaking thing, perhaps, in human experience is impotence in the face of trying
need.  A man can stand well enough the ordinary vicissitudes of life; but to be confronted
with an exigency that finds and leaves him utterly helpless is enough to crush the bravest
spirit.  The Irish soldiery that four times tried to scale Marye's Heights, which were not
for scaling by any mortal men, felt this bitterness, and the mere memory of them preserves
the image for the world.  It is this same feeling that makes the injured football player cry
like a child after he is recalled to the sidelines, and that makes a man in the grip of an
undertow give up and sink.  It is because they are called upon to combat forces against which
their mightiest muscular efforts are as futile as the flirting of a fan in jeweled fingers.

Nowhere is this more terribly felt than by men facing a great fire; for here not only have
they to deal with a power out of all proportion to humanity, but they confront a power perverse,
saturnine, malignant, diabolic.  A conflagration is wantonly cruel; not content with the simple
panoply of its might, it summons to its aid the evil whims of an enraged elephant.  It plays,
like a kitten, with hope before it crushes and kills it.  The spectacle of a building soaked
and saturated in water from the nozzles of a score of hose lines, with the flames driven back
from it by the sustained heroisms of a hundred men--and then the spectacle of that building
leaping suddenly into light in not one but a dozen places--this is a thing no man can endure,
if many times repeated, and this is what these men had been enduring for ten hours. They had
done all that men could do--more than men could do--and it was not enough.  At that moment
all they wanted in the world was the privilege of lying down, never to rise.

Long hours before, shortly after midnight, when it had become certain that help would be needed,
the wires had carried to the nearby cities Boston's appeal for aid.  As far as Portland and
Worcester and Providence the call had then gone forth; and later on the urgent word had been
flashed to Springfield, Hartford, New Haven, Bridgeport, and New York.  The New England cities
had loyally responded; their engines and their men were even now scattered along the battle
line and doing brave service.  But these weary men by the South Station had not seen them;
they found it almost impossible to believe that they were not alone and without aid in this
titanic but hopeless task.  Help might have come, their aching brains reflected--but not to
them.  For them there had been no help in sea or sky.  Gathered together in the yards below
the station, they silently watched it burn.

Of a sudden there came a lurch, a swift sagging of the arch supports at the western face of
the arches; the roof quivered a little, then was still.  It could now, from the open end, be
seen that the supports in several places were wrenched loose from the wall; the steel spans
hung free in air, while white smoke lifted unceasingly toward the summit of the vast shed.
On the tracks the cars were burning briskly.  Presently it could also be seen that the south
end of the roof was bending of its own weight.  It bent first just a little--then more.  Then
for a long moment it hung motionless, or with but the faintest quiver of vibration.  Then,
out of the sightless cavern came the screeching sound of metal scraping upon metal--a wild
sound, like the torture of some inarticulate thing; a dull, grinding noise followed, and at
last, out of the steaming furnace which the lower part of the train shed was now become, came
the dull roar of some great weight falling.

With a crack like that of a gigantic express rifle the western end of the great roof arches
pitched down to earth; weakened at the angle, loosened from their laterals, the big roof spans
lurched heavily downward.  A thrill seemed to run through the whole structure; the roof, strained
now to an impossible angle, hung breathless above the abyss.  Then slowly, almost in majesty,
but with a sound like the crashing fall of a giant tree, the great arch tottered and fell.

On the tracks beneath the shed the cars which there had been no time to remove continued to
burn cheerfully, in no wise dismayed by this terrible descent.  And far out in the yards, blocked
by a mass of salvaged rolling stock, stood a panting Mogul locomotive which had traveled the
last fifty miles in something less than fifty minutes, and behind it lay the special train
of the New York City Fire Department.

Were it not for the preponderance of the trivial in the affairs of life, all women and nearly
all men would believe in Fate.  This is borne out by the evidence of great men, who are fatalists
one and all--or who were so until these modern, ultrapsychologic days in which overthinking
is held to be so dangerously near a vice.  Those persons now whose ears are close laid to the
breathing of the world all believe in Fate.  Not negatively, not foolishly, not in the manner
which sets forth that what will be, will be, and any opposing effort is therefore futile; but
in the way of the true philosopher, of the man who can look upon the ruin or the loss of all
that he held dear, and realize that what is to him a tragedy must, in some light cruelly hidden
from him, be conserving some higher, some more inscrutable end.

This is the better fatalism; and the closer one approaches the primitive realities, the nearer
this kind of fatalism he comes. Looking on the naked face of life or the crude fact of death,
it is obvious to all save the most frivolous that these things were meant to be so.  As the
Aryan saying has it, looking forward there are a dozen ways, looking backward on the way each
man has traveled, there is but one.  Crude tragedy carries with it its own conviction of predestination.
It would be absurd to suggest that Togral Beg killed thirteen million people by accident or
by an extraordinary succession of chances.  Admit there is such an element as chance, and between
it and Fate is room for a thousand doubts.  It is natural enough for men who deal with the
tiny, circling ball of a roulette wheel or with the turn of playing cards to deny any power
higher than chance; but how of Napoleon, dicing for empires without end?--and how of Columbus,
sailing indomitably westward into the wheel of the sun?--how of Shan Tung, surveying the rotting
corpses of seven times seven cities of Chinamen slain by the Tartar sword?--and how of Boston,
on this February morning, looking white-faced on its own ruin, a ruin which, furthermore, seemed
scarcely begun?  Whether Fate be Fate or not, Boston believed in it that day.

Only one thing now tended to lift the gloom from the outlook, and this was the fact that the
fire seemed to have spread as far from east to west as it was possible for it to do.  The Common
on the west, and on the east side the Fort Point Channel, held its destructive sweep apparently
safe.  To be sure, there was just the possibility that where the Common ended, the corner of
Tremont and Boylston might be turned and the flames swing west once more; but this, in view
of the lower heights of buildings and the fact that the wind had now shifted and was blowing
toward the east rather than the west of south, seemed unlikely. Moreover, the combined departments
of Charlestown, Cambridge, Lynn, and a dozen other places were massed along Tremont Street
to prevent this very thing.  It was, however, a significant commentary on the hopelessness
of the situation when men could find comfort in the reflection that a strip of city a half
mile wide was alone exposed to the direct path of destruction.

Smith had been in the lower yards of the South Station at the time the train shed fell; he
had waited only a short time after that, working for a hot quarter hour to save some of the
cars not yet exposed to the shed fire.  The method adopted was one suggested by a lieutenant
of militia from Braintree; his plan, since no locomotives were for the moment available, was
to fix bayonets, stick them in the woodwork of the car sides, and then, forty men pushing at
once, the car would be rolled out of danger.  Dozens of passenger coaches were saved in this
way.  When the bulk of the close work here was done, the New Yorker turned westward, taking
care to keep well south of the burning zone.

"How far south on Tremont has it got?" he asked a passing stranger on Kneeland Street.

"About to the end of the Common," the man replied, without slackening his pace.

"By Jove! the Aquitaine'll be going next," reflected Smith.  "I might as well retrieve my suitcase.
It's the only one I own."

On his way back to the fire from Deerfield Street, the night before, he had stopped at the
hotel, changed his evening clothes for a business suit, and left his suitcase in his room.
It had not occurred to him that the fire might spread as far as that.  Now, his interest quickened
by a touch of amused fear lest he might already be too late, he turned toward the hotel with
faster tread.

The scene at the Aquitaine was one of the utmost panic and confusion. Only a little way to
the north the firemen had been blowing up buildings in another futile effort to check the fire
which would not be checked, and the dynamiting, coupled with the close approach of the fire
itself, had demoralized most of the hotel attendants.  Almost all the guests had long since
taken their belongings and departed. Porters, waiters, and clerks alike were engaged in collecting
whatever in the building could be moved and carrying it to trucks which were backed along the
curb to receive the property and bear it to a place of safety.

No one was at the desk; Smith found his own key.  The elevator was piled full of salvaged furniture
and curtains, and he walked up to his room on the fifth floor.  There he collected his belongings
and returned to the office.  Thinking to himself that he would defer paying his bill until
there was some one in a mental condition capable of receipting it, he went forth into the street,
suitcase in hand.

"Where now?" he thought.  The answer was not difficult.  There was only one place where he
wanted to go, and he had promised to go there.

To Deerfield Street, then, he went.  There he found two anxious women whose questions he answered
as best he could, and whom, after an hour's rest, he left, having promised that he would warn
them if by any chance the conflagration turned in their direction.  Warmed at heart, and much
refreshed by the luncheon they had insisted on his taking, he left the Maitlands, and turned
once again toward the path of the fire.

It had been nearly thirty hours since he had slept; and he found his eyes hot and dry and heavy
in his head.  Whether it was the smoke he had breathed, or the steady strain of the long night,
or the lack of sleep and sheer fatigue, he did not know; but he found developing in his brain
a strange, numb sense of remoteness, a want of coordination and identity between it and his
body.  In remembering this day, he was always afterwards to associate it with a smell of stale
smoke in his nostrils and a vague dimness of sight.  Even the thousand vivid incidents of the
great conflagration were always to come back to him with this haunting sense of unreality,
the feeling that it was not actually he but some one else who had witnessed and shared and
lived through them--some one not alien, yet not wholly kin to himself.  The gray and ochre
smoke haze, and the diffused heat, and the sense of intimate danger long faced and hence grown
hardly noted, clouded and filmed the facts, the colors, and the emotions of this day in the
dim light of a dream.

They were wild facts, too; great deeds; and glorious colors, which would have been worth a
clearer recollection.  The color of the midnight sky, its velvet blackness shot with crimson
gleams.  The waves of smoke, now like densest ink pouring up from some unseen funereal funnel--now
blindingly white, flung like the plume of Navarre above the tumult of the fray.  The tall,
cold buildings standing almost defiantly in the winter air, lifting their immobile fronts to
face the onrush--and the same buildings a little later, when the flames had passed, leaving
only gnawed skeletons and heaped and smoldering ruins in their wake.  The grim and terrible
anguish of twisted steel girders that lay writhen like petrified snakes among the ashes, or
lifted their tortured length to reach some last hold on sanity at the wall which they had once
helped maintain.  Great heaps and piles of ashes, and half-consumed beams and crushed and broken
brick, lying in smoldering humility, punctuated by stray relics and remnants of an unburned
world--pieces of furniture, by some miracle left unharmed, or bric-a-brac of some more than
usual inanity.  Fireproof buildings through which the flood of destruction had passed, burning
all that was burnable, and leaving the gaunt frames naked in the air, their exteriors perhaps
scorched and defaced, but with their vast strength unshaken and undismayed.  The thousand sounds
and odors of the fearful night and of the slow dawn; the fire whistles shrilling through the
wintry air, the gongs on truck and cart adding their clangor to the mad mellay, the shouts
of men, the bawling of orders, the screams of frightened women, the uncanny sound of the mewing
of an imprisoned cat in a window, whose instinct told it what its sense could not.  The hammer
of horses' hoofs on the stones of the street, with the sparks flung out to left and right beneath
the flying feet; the steady chug-chug of the tireless engines with their fireboxes seething
white-hot in the effort to hold the steam to its figure on the gauge. The far shock and the
dull boom of dynamiting that was like the rumor of a distant heavy cannonade.  Then the men,
the leagued enemies against this arch conspirator--the thousand heroisms of these men who contended
without fear against unbeatable odds; the stark, cold bravery that is a thing outside of human
experience save in some sublimated essence such as this--men who spanned impossible gaps, bore
impossible weights, scaled unscalable heights, died incredibly heroic and unutterably tragic
deaths, and who did these preposterous things as simply and unquestioningly as a child falling
to sleep.  The bitter humors of this prank of fate--the things shattered which should have
been whole, the things preserved which no hand but that of error had ever created.  The ruthless
mixture of the farcical and the pathetic; the fire horse struck to earth by a falling wall,
screaming in anguish--and the coal heaver, carrying hurriedly toward safety a gilt and white
ormolu clock.  And behind all this the swaying, eddying, swirling, but inexorably onward movement
of the Fire, and the muffled drum beat that served it for a pulse; behind all this the Fire's
voice, the low, purring, sinister roar which never ceased and which was deeper than the sound
of any surges on any shore; behind all this the valley of the shadow, with its grim processional
of life and fear and death, a processional spurred and driven to a speed which never slackened,
under the wind which for twenty hours had hardly tired, but had blown so steadfastly that to
the people of the city it seemed to be what in reality it must have been--the breath of God
out of the north.

CHAPTER XXIII

It was nearly nine o'clock in the evening when there came a ring at the Maitlands' doorbell.
It had not been the easiest waiting in the world, that of the two women in the half-deserted
apartment building through the long night and longer day.  Helen would have preferred to go
out of doors, feeling that there she could see and follow, at a distance at least, the progress
of the conflagration; but Mrs. Maitland in a strange and unlooked-for obstinacy absolutely
declined to leave the apartment or to permit her daughter to do so.

"I don't know anything about fires, but if this one starts in this direction I want to be here,
and not away somewhere," she repeated to her daughter's urging; nor could she be induced to
take any other viewpoint.  So in their rooms they remained, and their only news from without
was transmitted to them from the servants and visitors to the building.  The telephone was
out of commission, and Helen felt as though she were marooned in full sight of a civilization
with which she could not communicate and which afforded her no benefits.

It had been past one o'clock in the morning when Smith had brought her home from the fire.
Long after that the excitement had kept her awake; but she had fallen asleep at last, and wakened
again only when it was broad day.  It was, however, to be one of the longest days in her calendar,
and by noon she felt as though she had been waiting for years in expectation of she did not
know what.  She tried to read, but found it impossible to fix her attention on the book.  She
began to run over some operatic scores on the piano, but the sound seemed to ring so oddly
that she gave up this also.  Between her mother and herself conversation languished--and thus
the slow hours wore on.  She could not but think how infinitely more desirable it was to be
out in the streets, even though that might mean a certain amount of physical danger, than to
remain in unsatisfactory helplessness thus.  If it be woman's heritage to wait, that heritage
certainly did not appeal to Helen on this occasion.  It is doubtful if it ever appeals to any one.

Only two incidents of relief had marked the passage of the dragging hours.  The first was when
Smith had called, in the morning, to leave his suitcase and to promise to return in case the
fire should come dangerously near; the second was a visit from Mr. Silas Osgood.  This latter
call occurred in the middle of the afternoon, when the suspense of doing nothing at all had
become almost intolerable and the nerves of both women had come almost to the snapping point,
and they both consequently greeted him with even more than their usual affection.

"I'm so glad you've come, Uncle Silas, I can hardly speak!" Helen said; and her mother's welcome,
while somewhat less extreme in expression, was equally sincere.

"I tried to get you on the telephone, but I couldn't, so I thought I'd better come and see
how you were getting on," Mr. Osgood explained. "I'm glad you're all right.  This is a fearful
thing, a terrible business!  Nobody knows where it may end."

"Tell us about it--everything," the girl demanded.  "We have really heard nothing all day.
What we have heard has been chiefly what we could learn from the servants, and they understand
so little of what is actually happening."

"I have been out near the Public Gardens," said her uncle; "and though I couldn't see much,
I probably could see almost as much as though I had been a good deal nearer.  On the whole,
things seem very favorable. I would not go so far as to say that the end is in sight; but in
a certain sense the fire is under control, and I believe that the worst is over at last."

"How far does it extend now?"

"Well, they have managed to prevent its getting across Tremont Street; in fact, they have held
it on both east and west.  You see, most of the railroad yards below the South Station were
cleared in time, and that left little or no fuel on the east side.  The fire now, instead of
having a clean sweep from the Common to the Channel, has a path barely half that width.  It
is now as far south as Oak Street, and Hollis Street west of that."

"Dear me!  Has the good old Hollis Theater gone, then?"

"I don't see how it could very well have escaped.  But it wasn't a very attractive theater,
though, anyway.  Why do you ask about it?  They have needed a new building there for a long time."

"Yes--but some of the happiest evenings I have ever had were there.  It isn't the upholstery
of the seats or the mural decorations or what the theater looks like, but what you hear there.
Don't you think that a theater gets to retain some of its traditions and its greatest associations?
It sounds as though I were an old woman; but every time I go there, I seem to feel that the
theater remembers, just as I do, the thrills that its walls have known."

"Would you rather it had been left to be torn down, then?" inquired her uncle, with a smile.

"Well, possibly not.  That would be worse than this.  Perhaps it is better to 'give her to
the God of Storms,' after all."

"Perhaps," agreed Mr. Osgood, gently.

For a half an hour longer they talked, and he told them as much as he knew of what already
had been destroyed, and what the final reckoning would unclose.  He spoke as cheerfully as
he could, but Helen, watching him closely, saw that back of this there was a profound sadness.

"Is it so very terrible, Uncle Silas?" she asked at last, laying her hand affectionately on
his sleeve.

"Very.  It is as bad as it could be, my child," he answered.  "Bad for Boston--bad for us all.
I have been through this sort of calamity before; but that was many years ago.  I did not mind
it so much when I was a young man.  It is different now."

"But surely the city can survive it, can it not?"

"Yes--the property loss, no doubt; and I am glad to say that very few lives have been lost.
But it is a fearful catastrophe.  The city is crippled--shaken to its very heart!  Think of
the hundreds of families driven into the streets, the businesses wrecked, the uncountable number
of men left without employment, even if the fire cease at once!"

A new idea had come to Helen.

"What difference will it make to Silas Osgood and Company?" she asked, with some hesitation.
"It won't injure your firm, will it?"

"Oh, to a certain extent, temporarily, but nothing to be troubled about.  Of course the local
agent does not have to pay any part of his companies' losses.  But--" he paused.

"But what?" asked the girl.

"Well, I have been in the business so long, my dear, that I have come to look at this sort
of thing more from the standpoint of my companies than my own.  I am ashamed--yes, sorry and
ashamed--to have my city hurt my companies so sorely."

"But you couldn't have helped it--it isn't your fault," said Mrs. Maitland, somewhat mystified,
but guessing a little of what he felt.

"No," said Mr. Osgood, slowly; "I couldn't have helped it.  But if it had to happen in Boston,
I'm sorry it didn't wait until I was through."

"Then I hope it would be never!" Helen said, a little incoherently; but the point was plain.

"On the business side there is only one feature that cheers me," continued Mr. Osgood, "and
that is the fact that my old friend James Wintermuth and his company, the Guardian of New York,
are practically out of it all."

"How do you mean--out of it?" Helen's mother asked.

"You see, the Guardian, when it had to leave my office, lost all its local business.  A good
deal of it was naturally in this very part of the city which is burning.  They undoubtedly
have some term lines still in force,--policies written for three or five years,--but not many.
They will escape with a very light loss indeed--whereas two years ago this conflagration would
have involved them for an amount such as not many companies would care to meet."

"Then there must be other companies now who will lose more in this fire than they can pay?"

"Without a doubt.  There has never been a fire of this magnitude that has not absolutely ruined
many of the smaller companies.  It takes either a very strong or a very conservative insurance
company to weather a great conflagration.  After each of our big city fires in this country
many and many a company has found that after it paid its losses there would be nothing left
to carry it to further existence--capital and surplus were both wiped out.  And it must be
said to their credit that most of them, at a time like this, pay every cent they owe, even
if they have to go out of business directly afterwards."

"But if they haven't enough money to pay their losses?  Suppose their capital and surplus isn't
sufficient?"

"Then they either fail, and the receiver pays what he can to each claimant, or else they call
upon their stockholders--assess them.  Once in a while you will find a company refusing to
pay, on the ground that so great a calamity is an act of God, which no indemnity was ever designed
or intended to cover.  Quite a few foreign companies took this stand after the San Francisco
earthquake-fire; but the leading companies, American and foreign, paid dollar for dollar. 
The smaller fry tried to compromise a bit; but most of them eventually made pretty fair settlements,
in the main.  We'll see what they'll do in Boston."

"After the fire is out."

"Yes; and I really must go now, for I'm very anxious to see how they're handling it."

"It was very good of you to come."

"I'll come again, if there is anything of consequence to report.  I'm certain you'll be all
right here.  You haven't worried too much, have you?"

"Well, the waiting has been pretty bad," the girl confessed.

"Then don't worry any more, either of you, for if there should be the slightest danger, I'll
come back at once."

Helen hesitated a moment.

"Mr. Smith promised to come and 'save us,' if we needed saving," she said, with the merest
trace of a flush.

"Ah," replied her uncle, slowly.  "Then I think we may safely leave your rescue to him.  I
will come as a reporter only.  Good-by."

From the time of his departure there had been no visitor from the outside world until Smith's
ring came as the clock made ready to strike nine.  Helen herself opened the door, as the maid
had gone downstairs for further enlightenment from the authorities below; and Miss Maitland
found herself confronted by a man whom at first she hardly recognized, so hollow-eyed, so weary,
and withal so grimy did he look.  Her little start at seeing him was noted by Smith, and he
guessed the reason for it.

"Don't be alarmed," he said, with a shadow of his old smile.  "Under all the disguises it's
really I.  I know that I must look like a dissipated coal heaver, but I flatter myself that
you'll be glad to see me, just the same, for I came to tell you that the danger is over--the
fire is practically out."

"Then you must come in and let me get you something to eat," said the girl.

"Thank you very much, but I don't think I will.  Somehow I don't seem to feel very hungry.
But I'm horribly sleepy.  I don't believe I was ever so sleepy in my life.  So good-night."

But she stood with her back to the door.

"Where did you intend to go?" she demanded.  "The hotels that are not burned are probably filled
to the brim.  Besides, your clothes are here.  You can't go away.  You must stay here."

"That's awfully kind of you, to offer to take me in," the other rejoined; "but you cannot house
a disreputable chimney sweep. Besides--"

But she did not give him any opportunity to complete the sentence.

"Don't be absurd; you're usually quite sensible.  Mother and I had it all decided hours ago.
You're to stay with us.  Your room is all ready for you--and your bath," she added.

He acknowledged the touch with an appreciative but weary smile.

"Well, then, if you really don't mind, I'll take you up," he said.

"Will you have supper first?"

"Thanks, no--nothing but sleep.  I'm ashamed of being so fearfully tired--you must excuse me.
But I don't believe any man can stay awake indefinitely."

"No, I don't believe any man can," Helen agreed.

It was ten o'clock the next day when Smith opened his eyes once more upon a normal world. 
The sun was shining brightly, but it was some moments before he could assure himself that he
was actually awake again.  The twelve hours' sleep, during which apparently not one muscle
had he stirred, had gone far to repair the ravages of thirty-six hours' steady wakefulness,
and a cold bath did the rest.  The two ladies were found to be in the dining room, still absorbed
in the morning edition of a newspaper whose building had escaped the sweep of the conflagration.

"Why, it's only half-past ten!" was Helen's greeting.  "I didn't expect you so early.  Mother
suggested that we wait breakfast for you; but I said it would be much closer your wishes if
we waited lunch instead."

"Well, I think I must have condensed an enormous amount of sleep into the last twelve hours,"
said Smith; "for I feel as well as ever.  Tell me what has happened--I see you have the papers."

"What is going to happen is also important--your breakfast," the girl responded.  "Go over
there, where you see that napkin sitting expectantly on its haunches, and Marie will be in
directly."

"Thank you.  I hope you won't be scandalized at my appetite.  Is the fire entirely out?"

"Yes--practically.  Here's the paper."

"That's very good of you.  You'll pardon me if I just look at the headlines?"

"Of course."  And for a few moments there was little conversation in the sunny dining room.

"And now will you do me a favor?" said Miss Maitland.

Smith looked at her; a long moment.

"I will do anything in the world for you," he said, "except one thing."

The girl flushed a little.

"I want you to take me out to the fire," she responded.

The other looked at her in surprise.

"Why, of course," he said.  "I never thought of doing anything else. If my calculations are
correct, it will take me exactly as long to finish those three pieces of toast as for you to
get ready.  Better wear old clothes--it may be pretty dirty."

Five minutes later they descended to the street.

"Why, it's been snowing!" said Smith, in surprise.

A light fall of snow covered sidewalk and lawns; there were few men this day with sufficient
leisure to sweep away snow.  As the two went northward through the bright morning, they walked
for the most part in silence.  All seemed very still, for there were no street cars moving,
and most of the customary confusion of a city's streets was oddly hushed.  Few people were
abroad, at least along where their path lay; it was almost as though they were passing through
a deserted city.

"Look at that," Smith said once.  "I don't believe you were ever on this corner when you couldn't
see a single person."

"Where do you suppose every one is?" asked Helen, curiously.

"At the ruins.  Do you know, this reminds me of one of the strangest things I ever saw."

"What was that?" the girl inquired, turning toward him.

"The only absolutely deserted town in America--at least I think it must be the only one.  I
never heard any one speak of another.  But I know this one exists, for I saw it myself."

"Where is it?  I never heard of such a thing.  It sounds like Herculaneum or some of those
Assyrian cities where they are always digging up statues and tablets and things."

"But this isn't a buried town.  It's a real town, built perhaps twenty or thirty years ago;
and it's located out in northern Indiana.  And a perfectly nice little town, with brick stores
and a couple of paved streets and other advantages.  Everything--except inhabitants.  No one
lives there."

"Why not?  Is this really true?"

"True as gospel.  I saw it myself.  I walked through the deserted streets.  And a rather uncanny
feeling it gave me, too."

"Was it unhealthy?  Why did the people leave?"

"I haven't the vaguest idea," said Smith; and as he answered he raised his arm to point eastward
along the street they had that moment reached.  Following the direction in which he was pointing,
Helen saw a thin line of smoke rising feebly from a pile of débris upon the ground. Near by
were similar piles, sullenly smoldering.

"There's where they stopped it," said Smith.

They walked quickly along until they came to the very corner on which the last ebbing wave
of the sea of fire had turned.  This corner was at the intersection of Shawmut Avenue with
the railroad's right of way. Over the tracks at this point was a raised steel bridge, and to
this they now directed their steps.  At the end of the bridge they stopped. The bridge was
elevated sufficiently so that they could see a considerable distance northward, and for some
moments they stood and looked in silence at the sight which lay beyond them.

It was something which is only to be seen once in the course of an ordinary lifetime--the complete
ruin of the integral part of a great city.  With something too remote yet too bitterly real
for any words gripping at her heart, Helen stood looking out over a scene such as she never
could have imagined.  Here was ruin incarnate, desolation supreme; this was the bitter tragedy
of that which once was great turned suddenly into pitiful nothingness before her very eyes.

In the foreground, at their feet, lay the heaped débris of the bricks, timbers, and contents
of a whole row of dynamited buildings--the sacrificed buildings which by their own destruction
had checked the conflagration at the last.  There they lay, still smoldering or blazing in
some places, utterly still and lifeless in others, with stray beams and bits of cornice or
of tin roofing, twisted into weird shapes, sticking out at odd angles.  Here and there unconsumed
and hardly damaged articles that had been contained in these buildings lay unheeded; for here
where the flames had died, they had not destroyed everything combustible, as they had seemed
to do almost everywhere else.  On the west side of Shawmut Avenue, where the houses still stood
intact, a few men were to be seen; these were the state militiamen in their fatigue uniforms,
patrolling the ruins.  Smith called Helen's attention to them.

"Why are they there?" she asked.

"To watch the vultures gathering for the feast.  See!  There goes one of them now--over there
to the left."

Helen looked; skulking along in the shadow of a ruined wall was a shabby, rough-looking man
who stole swiftly out of sight behind a pile of rubbish.

"One of the scavengers.  They come almost automatically after every great disaster--fire, flood,
battle, or pestilence.  Ghouls, you understand, from heaven knows where.  That man's great-grandfather
probably robbed the dead grenadiers of the Legion of Honor at Waterloo."

"Thieves?" said the girl, in horror.

"Worse than thieves.  Vandals, body-snatchers, murderers, if it came to that.  The kind of
man who'd cut the finger off a dying woman to get her wedding ring.  Unpleasant, isn't it?
Well, the militia are under orders to shoot them on sight, if caught in the act.  But let's
go a little farther on; I think we can get a better view from farther north."

"Wait," said his companion.  "I am not ready to go--yet."

Smith heeded her voice, and for another unnoted interval they stood agaze upon their little
eminence.

Far to the northward the scene of ruin stretched away.  Almost as far as the eye could reach
was only the shadow, the terrible and disfigured skeleton of what had been the city.  Everywhere
were smoldering piles with occasional tongues of sullen, orange flame and their myriad threads
of smoke trailing upward in the still air like Indians' signal fires.  Here was a brick building,
apparently hardly touched or harmed, lifting its lonely height over its prostrate neighbors.
Here a partly burned structure, gutted but still erect, stood like a grim, articulated skeleton,
a gaunt scarecrow against the skyline. Everywhere were mounds and hollows, hills and valleys,
so that the natural contour of the earth, unseen now these hundred years, once more appeared.
And over it all, everywhere that the fire had wholly burned out, lay the heart-breaking beauty
and whiteness of the snow, and of the ashes under the snow.

"How terribly white it is!" said Helen, in a low voice.

Smith only nodded.  Feeling her mood, he left her to speak when she was ready, and presently
she did so.

"Shall we go now?" she asked.

"Suppose we do.  I want to show you, if I can--and to see myself--what is left of the shopping
and hotel and theater district.  There can't be much left."

They turned back in the way they had come, for Tremont Street above this point was no thoroughfare.
By a somewhat circuitous route at last they reached the corner of the Common; and here, at
the edge of the great throng of curious onlookers, they paused.

"There's where I didn't sleep last night," said Smith.

The Hotel Aquitaine, such as it was, stood gauntly staring at them from its dozens of empty
windows.  The building itself was intact, but every piece of inflammable material in its contents
seemed to have been wiped out of existence as utterly as though made of tissue paper.  With
a little shudder Helen turned away, and they moved onward.

For all Smith's fire-line badge, they were not permitted to enter the patrolled district, and
they could only join the throng which was circling about the outskirts.  This was not a very
inspiring nor even a very interesting thing, although the people for the most part were oddly
silent, seeming to have been numbed by the extent of the disaster.  Helen found before very
long that she had seen enough.

"What a fearful crowd!  I think I'd rather go where there aren't quite so many people," she
told Smith.

"All right--wait until I see what happened to Jordan's store; then we'll go."

Five minutes later they were heading back southward in the direction of their bridge.

"It is beyond words, isn't it?" observed Smith.  "There is nothing at all adequate that a man
can say when he is confronted by such a thing as this, and almost nothing that he can do."

"Isn't there something, though?" the girl asked.  "There must be hundreds of people homeless,
without food or money or anything!  Cannot we do anything to help them?"

"No doubt," said the man.  "Individually we could scarcely be of much assistance; but I fancy
that the local charity organizations or the Red Cross would see that any contribution went
where it would do the most good."

Only a few minutes later they found where one of these institutions had opened temporary headquarters
in an old church.

"Let us go in," said Miss Maitland.

As they entered they saw that the church was filled with refugees, come in to escape the cold.
They were most of them sitting in groups, talking eagerly to one another.  Some were lying
asleep, stretched out full length on the pews.  A woman was going about, serving hot coffee
and soup and bread.  The refugees ate hungrily, but on the faces of almost all of them rested
the same dispirited look of dazed wonder. Apparently they were chiefly foreigners, the majority
Italians, and it was evident that they had lost everything they had possessed.  Helen stood
watching them with a sad heart from the back of the church, and Smith, looking at her, saw
that her eyes were full of tears.  He laid his hand gently on her arm.  "Please don't," he
said gravely.  But he understood.

"But it seems so unfair for them to have lost everything," the girl said.  "They had so little
to lose."

She turned her face to his.

"There is no answer to that," he said; "but we can help them a little."

To the woman in charge they gave what they could afford to give, and turned toward home.  It
was nearly four o'clock, and Mrs. Maitland might be growing anxious about their safety.  They
walked forward in a silence which neither wished to break.

It was soon broken, however, by a chance occurrence.  They were passing by an open street on
the edge of the burned district.  Across the street, under a none too steady wall, a woman
whose distress had evidently touched the good nature of the militiaman patrolling the other
end of the block was hunting about among heaps of débris, searching for things which might
perhaps have been spared by the flames.  On top of the house wall was a battered stone coping,
which, as Smith and Helen paused, gave a sudden lurch and seemed about to fall.  The woman,
her head bent, saw nothing; but Smith, with a startled exclamation, started quickly forward.

"Look out there!" he called sharply.  "Come away from that wall!"

The woman, with her back turned, paid no attention to the warning--probably did not even hear
him.  The coping, poised on the wall's edge, swayed perilously.  If it fell, there would be
one less of the indigent and helpless for the relief committees to support.  With a half angry
exclamation Smith sprang forward.

On his sleeve he felt the quick pressure of a hand.  At the same moment the crouching woman,
having finished her search, or perhaps moved by an instinct of danger, walked slowly on, and
out from under the wall.  The coping did not fall.

Smith turned to find the girl's fingers closed tight upon his arm, and in her eyes something
he had never seen before.  She stood still a moment, and when at last she withdrew her hand,
she spoke in a voice so low that he could barely catch the words.

"Why did you do that?"

"She didn't see the coping," he said, as naturally as he could.

"It might have fallen--on you!"

"Yes," he said; "I suppose it might.  But you see, it didn't."

"It might have killed you," she said, still in a low voice.

Smith turned abruptly, and looked at her.

"How much would you have cared, Helen?" he asked.

Even at this moment the trammels of her ancestry were on her; she made no answer.

"How much would you have cared, dear?" he asked again, gently.

Then at last she raised her eyes, and met his fairly.

"More than anything--more than everything in the world," she said.

The early gray February twilight was closing in upon them when they left the lifted bridge.
They had been there long, yet as they turned to go, Helen gave one backward look.  There, spread
away across the stricken plain, she saw for the last time the prostrate thing which yesterday
had been the living city; and over it, like the winding linen of a shroud, lay the white ashes
in the snow.

CHAPTER XXIV

On the top floor of the Salamander office in William Street a man stood silent before a map
desk on which was laid an open map of the city of Boston.  It was late in the afternoon, and
the level rays of the declining sun came in redly at the window.  The man standing at the desk
did not notice them; he was looking stolidly from map to newspaper, from newspaper to map,
as from the hysterical and conflicting accounts of the conflagration he tried to measure the
extent of the calamity.

The morning papers had told but little, since they had gone to press when the fire was only
a few hours old; and as the day was Sunday, and a holiday, there had been available only a
few of the usual flock of evening sheets which begin to appear in New York shortly after breakfast.
With one of these by his elbow, in the fading light of the late February day, F. Mills O'Connor
stood, stonily and with hard eyes, gazing at ruin.

He was alone in the office, since the one other person who had been with him had, under instructions,
departed.  This was George McGee, the Salamander's map clerk for New England.  There was no
reason whatever why George should have visited William Street on a Sunday; nevertheless Mr.
O'Connor, on arriving, had found him standing aimlessly and undecided in front of the door.

"What do you want here?" he had said to George, coldly.

"Nothing.  That is, I came over from Brooklyn to see if any one wanted anything.  I thought
maybe somebody would be down, and they'd need some one to help take off the lines, sir."

"Well, I don't need any help.  You can go," said the other.

"I didn't know.  We've got a lot of business in that part of Boston, sir.  I know where all
the dailies are filed.  You'll need me if you're going to go over the lines, sir."

O'Connor considered.

"Well, come up, then," he said ungraciously.  "We'll have to walk up; there's no steam on."

It was then three o'clock.  At not later than a quarter to four Mr. O'Connor had definitely
determined that unless the report of the conflagration's extent had been exaggerated beyond
all human connection with the facts, the Salamander had sustained a loss in Boston which was
considerably greater than its resources would permit it to pay.  In other words, if the printed
account were even remotely true, the Salamander was, as the phrase has it, insolvent.  To put
it even more shortly, the company was ruined.  Facing this fact and its string of entailed
consequences, the man most directly interested was silent so long that his youthful assistant
became nervous.

"Pretty bad loss, ain't it?" he asked sympathetically.

O'Connor looked at him unseeingly.  In his busy mind he was running through an imaginary calculation.
It was somewhat as follows: Salamander's net liability in the section of Boston presumably
destroyed, $600,000--Salamander's net surplus available for payment of losses, $400,000.  Inevitably
the problem ended: Salamander's impairment of capital, $200,000.  And the fire was still burning.
Boston could be rebuilt, but could the Salamander?

He turned on the clerk beside him with the savage and melodramatic gesture of an irritated
musical comedy star, and the boy recoiled before him.

"That's all.  You can go home," he said curtly.

Two minutes later he was left alone in the silent office.

At the best of times there was in the nature of Mr. Edward Eggleston Murch not overmuch genuine
urbanity.  Urbanity of the surface he had, of course; he called on it at need in very much
the same way that he called on his stenographer.  But of true courtesy or consideration Mr.
Murch's makeup was singularly and flawlessly free.  On the contrary he could, on occasion,
summon to his face a congealment and to his eye a steely gleam which nobody admired but which
all respected.  Ordinarily this was either for his inferiors, or for those unfortunates who
had come to cross purposes with him, or for those who had made blunders costly to him that
his most glacial manner was reserved; but every one about the Salamander office knew of it,
either by hearsay or by actual experience.  Mr. O'Connor was removed from all danger of running
counter to the Salamander's leading stockholder, so long as the company continued to make money.
But what might now happen, Mr. O'Connor did not care to consider--and yet the topic engrossed
his attention so deeply that darkness surprised him still adrift on the waters of this sea
of doubt.

Not until the swift winter nightfall recalled him to himself did he remember the world around
him; and when at last he groped his way down the long flights of dusky stairs to the street,
his was the slow and inelastic step of a beaten man.

Mr. Murch had spent the holiday and the week-end at the country place of a fellow financier.
To this retired spot news penetrated with decorum and conservatism.  One was in no danger,
at Holmdale, of acting on premature information, for all information which reached this sequestered
Westchester chateau did so in the most leisurely and placid manner.  For this very reason Mr.
Murch shunned Holmdale and resorted to many a subterfuge to avoid the acceptance of divers
invitations to sojourn beneath the medieval roof of its host, who happened to be a man whom
even Mr. Murch hesitated to offend.  In the present case, when on returning to New York early
Monday morning he learned that one of the most terrible losses in fire insurance annals had
occurred without his knowledge, it did not tend to sweeten his temper.

He did not go to his own office, but with a grim face started directly for the building of
the Salamander.  Once within its portals he immediately entered Mr. O'Connor's room.  Mr. O'Connor
was seated at his desk, with a pile of daily reports before him.

"How much do we lose in Boston?" the visitor demanded.

The President of the Salamander had been in the building during most of the past twenty-four
hours, taking off the lines in the burned district on a special bordereau.  Neither the Osgood
office nor his special agent could be reached on the long distance telephone; and the newspaper
accounts, even thus long after the fire, were still painfully vague and somewhat rhetorically
hysterical.  They talked much of the "devouring element," and the word "lurid" frequently occurred;
but no reporter had been sufficiently practical to bound the burned district or to state specifically
what buildings had or had not been spared. Still, they told enough.  To the meanest intelligence
it was patent that a tremendous catastrophe had taken place, that most of the section from
School Street south to the railroad was leveled, and virtually everything therein was totally
destroyed--except the fireproof buildings, which were still standing, scorched and shaken,
stripped clean of combustible contents, but not fatally damaged.

O'Connor had the list in his hand.  In his heart now was the calm absence of feeling which
marks the man who has abandoned hope.

"I should estimate our net liability in the burned district at about $700,000," he said unemotionally.

Mr. Murch leaned forward in his chair.

"And the net surplus of the company is--?" he asked menacingly.

"You know what it is.  It's half a million, roughly."

"Well, will you tell me what in the devil you mean by putting this company in a position to
lose more money than it has clear?"

O'Connor, beyond caring now, actually smiled.

"Fortunes of war, Mr. Murch.  You wanted a leading position in Boston, if you'll remember.
I gave it to you."

"I didn't want any such position as my present one," rejoined Mr. Murch, in frigid tones.

"I didn't either, if you come to that," retorted O'Connor, promptly.

The financier's irritation was increased by this unexpectedly reckless attitude on the part
of the man who should, he felt, be abased in sackcloth before him.  He regarded the other with
surprise, through his indignation.

"You take this remarkably coolly, I should say," he remarked.

"There's no use in getting excited--the eggs are smashed now.  But just the same," returned
O'Connor, with a flash of spirit, "I'm just as sore about this as if I owned every dollar of
Salamander stock there is on the books."

The mention of the unit of currency reminded his companion of something else.

"What do you suppose the market is doing?" he said.

"I haven't the slightest idea," replied the other.

Murch lifted the receiver from the telephone at his elbow.

"Hello: give me Broad nine nine seven six.  Is this Atwater and Jenkins?  Give me Mr. Atwater--this
is Mr. Murch speaking.  That you, Billy?  How's the market?"

He replaced the receiver with a snap.

"Everything off at the opening.  Bad slump in Maryland Traction and P. N. T."

"It ought to go off some more when the fire companies in general start liquidating.  There
will have to be a big unloading to raise the amount of cash necessary to pay those Boston losses.
I suppose, though, the British companies will send the money across--they usually do, and that'll
help a little.  That's the worst of these fires--they hit you going and coming.  Suppose we
lose seven hundred thousand; well, before we get through we'll have to sell eight or nine hundred
thousand dollars' worth of securities, at present prices, to pay it."

"How much cash have we on deposit?" Mr. Murch inquired.

O'Connor handed him the last weekly statement in silence.  The fact that the other man had
expressed no definite intention was to him encouraging.  It might be that all was not over yet.

"Roughly, our surplus," commented the financier.  "Now, how about our other assets?  Stocks
and miscellaneous securities, $1,500,000.  Only it won't be a million and a half by the time
we get rid of them. Probably a couple of hundred thousand less.  Encouraging, isn't it?  In
other words, this fire is going to cost us $900,000 before we're through.  And the present
question is, how are we to get through?"

O'Connor looked him over with an appraising glance.

"Well, the Salamander has paid good dividends for years," he said. "Probably more than most
companies would have thought it prudent to pay--they'd have put a larger amount into surplus
to take care of such a smash as this.  And I've made the company a better money-maker on the
underwriting side than it's ever been before--you'll admit that, I think.  There's no reason
why we shouldn't go on.  My suggestion would be to assess the stock."

He awaited the answer nervously, toying with a penholder, not daring to glance at the other
man.  He did not have to wait long.

"Not much!" said Mr. Murch, coldly.  "I'm going to get out of this as fast as I can, and I'm
going to stay out, you understand.  No more fire insurance business for me.  It's the only
business I ever made a complete mess of.  The Salamander would have done better if they had
never issued a policy--if they had merely let me invest their money for them.  Now the next
question is, how to get out.  You are an insurance man and supposed to be a competent one--possibly
you can tell me how to set about it."

"Do you mean to liquidate the Salamander--close up the company?"

"Whatever one does to extricate himself from this kind of a hole. What's the usual method?"

"The usual method," replied O'Connor, his face somewhat flushed at the other man's tone, "is
for the stockholders to authorize an assessment on their stock, and continue.  That apparently
does not appeal to you; and if I understand you correctly, you wish to terminate operations
and wind up the company."

"Exactly so.  You catch my meaning perfectly."

"There are two ways, then," the other said.  "One is to let the risks in force expire, paying
the losses as they occur; that will take about five years.  The other, which is the usual way,
is to pay some other company to assume the liability on all our outstanding policies--to reinsure
us.  We pay a lump sum, and the other company pays the losses as the risks expire, instead
of our doing so."

"I see the idea.  But what company would do that?  And wouldn't it cost a small fortune to
get any one to?  And isn't this a bad time to approach any company with such a proposition?"

"No, I don't think so.  Some company might be glad to get hold of a large amount of cash which
it could use to pay its own Boston losses, and then it could pay the losses on our outstanding
business, which would come along gradually for several years, out of its own normal profits
in that time."

Mr. Murch looked at O'Connor with more respect.

"That sounds plausible.  How much would it cost--in round numbers?"

"Our reinsurance reserve is about $1,500,000.  I should think a company might be found to take
it over for about two thirds of that sum.  You see, we have a valuable agency plant and a good
business, and although you want to get rid of it, it would be considered by most companies
as well worth having.  The company that took over our risks wouldn't let them expire; that
company would hold on to them and secure them on renewal."

"How can this be arranged?" Mr. Murch inquired.

It was like cutting off his right hand to reply, O'Connor reflected, but he did so.

"Mr. Simeon Belknap usually manages such matters," he said.  "Naturally he doesn't manage them
for nothing; but he does the trick, and he's much the best man for it.  He has probably engineered
four fifths of the important reinsurance deals that have gone through in this country. No one
has ever discovered why these things gravitate so unerringly to him--but they do.  He will
undoubtedly be pleased to find you a reinsurer for the Salamander."

He rose from his seat.  It was perfectly evident that the game was over, and only the tumult
and shouting remained to die away.  But Mr. Murch was not entirely through.

"Suppose we ask Mr. Belknap to come and talk it over," he proposed.

O'Connor shook his head.

"Don't do it.  It would hurt your market.  If he were seen coming in here at this time, the
whole Street would know we were in trouble and getting ready to quit.  It would be better to
make an appointment with him somewhere else."

"As you say," agreed Murch.  "Please arrange one for us as soon as possible."

"All right," said the man whom this operation would leave bare of position and prestige alike.
"I'll get him on the phone at once."

It was late that afternoon when a three-cornered interview took place in a down-town office
somewhat outside the customary espionage of William Street.  Most of the talking was done by
Mr. Simeon Belknap, who talked crisply and to the point.

"The figures you have given me, Mr. Murch," he said, "indicate that the Salamander's capital
is impaired to the probable extent of several hundred thousand dollars.  I assume from your
coming to me in this way, that you have decided that it is not worth while trying to put the
company on its feet.  Is that correct?"

"How much would it cost to keep going?" asked the financier, bluntly.

"I should think you would have to assess your stock one hundred and fifty dollars a share.
Yes, it would take $750,000 to put the Salamander in a position to continue in business with
proper resources."

"Eliminate that possibility from the discussion," said Mr. Murch, tersely; and O'Connor's last
faint hope died.

"There remains, then, to find some company willing to take over your outstanding business.
Your present reinsurance reserve is about $1,500,000.  Your available assets over capital,
including your real estate and everything, will bring approximately $1,800,000.  Mr. O'Connor
tells me you will pay in Boston about $700,000.  This leaves you $1,100,000.  For this sum,
or perhaps a little less, you can probably reinsure all your business now in force, leaving
you, let us say, with your capital stock intact and perhaps $100,000 over."

"In other words," said Mr. Murch, "we'll get for our liquidated stock about 120;--stock which
sold last week at 210!"

"Precisely.  If I can get you a reinsurer on the terms I mentioned. And I think you'll be getting
out pretty well.  You're impaired right now, you know."

Mr. Murch's financial vanity was touched.

"After all," he said, with an effort, "I probably averaged only 150 for mine.  I've got pretty
fair dividends on it for some time.  That'll get me out pretty nearly even.  Well, Mr. Belknap,
if you can arrange to reinsure the Salamander on those terms, go ahead."

"The directors of the company--?" said Belknap, suggestively.

"I either own or control a majority of the stock," replied Mr. Murch.

There was no more to be said.  The President and the majority stockholder of a corporation
whose days were numbered walked back to the office with hardly a word spoken between them.

These were troublous times in William Street.  The Salamander was not the only company which
had been hard hit in Boston.  Many of the smaller underwriting institutions were tottering
very close to the wall.  Already two failures were known; a dozen others were suspected. But
in Boston, where the stricken city lay impatiently waiting, most of the companies already had
men on the ground, adjusting and paying claims.  The Boston insurance district had fortunately
been left untouched, so that the local records were intact, making the work of the adjusters
much simpler than it would otherwise have been.

Whence was the money to come--this golden flood which now began to pour from a hundred coffers
into the empty pockets of the sufferers?  The large companies, for the most part, were paying
without discount or delay, and the line of claimants at the Boston offices and adjustment bureaus
never ceased.  In New York, in London, in Hartford, wherever insurance companies had their
home offices, securities were being converted into cash to meet this tremendous demand.  And
the golden stream that flowed toward Boston knew no stop.

Of all the companies doing a general business in the East, the Guardian had come through least
scathed, its withers unwrung.  Thanks to the raiding of its Boston business by the Salamander,
the Guardian's loss, which was confined wholly to three-year and five-year lines unexpired,
would not much exceed, according to Smith's computation, $100,000, even if all its claims were
adjusted as total.

Smith's first work on reaching the home office had been to compute the actual liability of
the Guardian; his second was a similar calculation for a corporation in which he had no financial
interest whatever.  He was engaged in this task when Mr. Wintermuth entered the office.

"Ah, Richard," said his chief, "I'm glad to see you safe.  An insurance man in a fire is like
a duck in a pond; but I'm glad to see you here, just the same.  A terrible calamity!--a really
terrible calamity!  How much did we get?  Wagstaff estimated it at one hundred and forty thousand,
but of course we can't tell how far the fire actually went."

"He was pretty close to my figures," said Smith, with a smile.  "It was a terrible calamity,
sir, but not so terrible as if the Guardian had a half a million loss--instead of $107,500
at the outside limit."

"Are those the figures you have there?" inquired the President, glancing at the list on his
subordinate's desk.

"No.  I sent that list with the daily reports to the loss department. This is another one--even
more interesting on some accounts.  This is a list of the lines we didn't get."

"Ah!  You mean--?" said Mr. Wintermuth.

"These are the lines that we have lost since we went out of the Osgood office."

"Indeed!  What is the total?" asked the other man, with interest.

"I haven't quite finished, but I should say it would come close to $350,000."

"Which I suppose the Salamander got.  I don't like to rejoice in other men's misfortunes, Richard,
but there is a certain element of justice in that," said the older man, gravely.

"What interests me is, how much more than that they got," Smith returned.  "Don't forget that
Cole is clever, but not the careful underwriter Mr. Osgood is, and that O'Connor was out to
make a record for premium income.  If the Salamander's loss up there is less than $600,000,
I shall be surprised."

"Their surplus isn't as much as that, is it?  That will impair them."

"On the first of January their surplus was a little less than half a million."

"Oh, well," Mr. Wintermuth returned, "I suppose they'll assess their stockholders.  That man
Murch will probably get up an underwriting syndicate to handle it."

"But suppose he doesn't.  Suppose they decide to reinsure and quit. Murch has the reputation
of being a bad loser," said Smith, slowly.

His chief looked at him.

"Let them reinsure, then.  But how does that affect us?" he said.

"Why shouldn't we reinsure them?" said the Vice-President.

"What!" exclaimed Mr. Wintermuth.  "What's that you say?"

"I say," returned Smith, "that the Salamander is far more likely to reinsure than to stand
a heavy assessment.  And we want that business of theirs.  We have a little score to settle
with the Salamander, sir."

"Yes, yes," admitted the President.  "O'Connor has treated us very badly; still, it has worked
out very fortunately for us.  And at any rate," he added, "I do not believe in allowing personal
animus to govern one's business acts or policy."

It was a sounding phrase, although not quite new.

"Neither do I," said Smith, promptly; "but this is more than an act of poetic justice.  Of
course there's a certain satisfaction in finding that one of the packages stolen from us contained
a bomb which blew up the burglar--but how much more appropriate it would be if the same explosion
hurled the rest of the stolen property into the hands of the original and rightful owners.
And besides that, the Salamander business is well worth putting on our books--and there's a
lot of it."

"Yes.  Too much, in fact," said his chief.  "Our resources are not sufficient to permit our
taking on such a load."

"I admit that," replied the younger man.  "We will have to increase our capital a half a million.
And now's the time to get it.  We can issue it at 200, which is rather less than the present
stock is selling for, and the premium will take care of our surplus when we take on this new
business.  I believe our stockholders will back us up.  While other companies are asking their
stockholders for more money to pay their Boston losses, we are asking ours to put us in the
first rank of underwriting institutions in the United States."

Mr. Wintermuth looked at the young man before him, a long, grave look.

"Richard," he said at last, "I am fond of you, and I suppose that having no son of my own to
be proud of, I am proud of you, too.  But sometimes you make me feel a hundred years old."

"You needn't," answered Smith, affectionately, "for you've taught me almost all I know.  If
I am a little more aggressive than I might be, perhaps you were too, at my age.  The question
is, what is to the best interest of the Guardian?"

"That is a question," said Mr. Wintermuth, "for the directors to decide."

"Of course," returned the other.  "But I should be surprised if our directorate didn't take
a broad and liberal view of it.  Immediately following this conflagration, when so much insurance
capital has been wiped out, there will be a need for more.  We will need our share, for we're
going to do a bigger business.  Even if we don't take over the Salamander or some other company,
we're going to swing a much heavier premium income this year than last."

"Well," said the President, "since you have brought up the question, I should fail in my duty
to the company if I should let an opportunity for extending our business pass by without submitting
the matter to the directors.  If you find that the Salamander business is for sale, and they
want us to make a bid for it, I will call a special meeting of the board and lay the facts
before our friends."

It was not for some little time that there was any palpable result of the meeting, when secured,
for neither Smith nor Mr. Simeon Belknap was a man to hurry a matter to the prejudice of his
interests.  Following his conference with O'Connor and Mr. Murch, Mr. Belknap spent parts of
several days moving quietly and almost imperceptibly about on investigations of his own.  It
was not every company which had facilities for extending its premiums some three million dollars
a year; and besides that, most of them were being kept so busy in Boston that they had no leisure
to consider so large a proposition.

Both Smith and Mr. Wintermuth were by this time aware that Mr. Belknap was handling the Salamander's
affairs, and the Vice-President kept on that gifted gentleman as close an espionage as he could
contrive to keep.  After observing him casually engage in conversation three prominent underwriting
executives, any one of whom might be supposed to be in a position to take over the Salamander,
Smith determined to take the bull by the horns.  On the third day after the directors' meeting
he took pains to meet Mr. Belknap and similarly to engage him in casual conversation.

When, a little later, they adjourned from the Club to Mr. Belknap's office, the matter was
practically settled, subject to the ratification of the directorates of both companies.

The Boston conflagration was not quite two weeks a thing of the past when Mr. Belknap signified
that he had succeeded in his task of securing on satisfactory terms a purchaser for the Salamander,
and if the necessary executives of that company would be in Mr. Murch's office at two-thirty
that afternoon, he would bring the contracts for signature.

Over the telephone Mr. Murch said: "All right.  Bring them."  To his secretary he said: "Ask
Mr. O'Connor to be here at two-thirty this afternoon."

At two-thirty Mr. O'Connor appeared.

"Hello--glad to see you," said Mr. Murch, urbanely.  Now that the matter was coming out with
such a comparatively favorable color, he saw no reason to abandon the amenities.  In the first
flush of anger they had suffered somewhat, but that was all over.

"Good-day," returned O'Connor, shortly.  He had been out on the Street for three days, trying
to catch the scent of some foreign reinsurance company ignorant of his impending change, so
that his fall might not seem too humiliatingly flat, when the news should be wired every agent
of the Salamander to cease writing.  He had met, however, with no success, so he cannot be
blamed if his response to Mr. Murch was a trifle lacking in enthusiasm.

"You're prompt," proceeded that gentleman, ignoring his visitor's lack of cordiality.  "I'm
glad you're on time, for Mr. Belknap just telephoned that he was on his way here with the contracts
and the representative of the company that's taking us over."

"Did he say what company it was?" inquired O'Connor, with the first gleam of interest he had shown.

"I don't believe I asked him.  There seems to be a lot of secrecy about these deals, and I
didn't care a hang, myself, anyway.  He said it was a thoroughly responsible company, and our
policyholders would be fully protected.  They'll be here in a minute."

"I wonder what company it is," the other man said, reflectively, half to himself.

"You'll know in a moment, because, unless I'm wrong, the boy is bringing Belknap's card now."

The boy entered with the card in question.

"Ask them to come in," said Mr. Murch.

O'Connor stood looking out the window.  His gaze wandered over the well-known roofs of the
buildings along William Street, and a momentary pang shot through him to think that under those
roofs to-morrow there would be no place for him, and that his venture was all to begin again.
He no longer felt any sense of grievance, any animosity against Murch. He was merely wondering
vaguely at Fate, and at this latest whim of hers.  So deep was he in his reverie that he scarcely
noticed the entrance of the expected callers until he heard a voice that recalled him to actualities.

"Mr. Murch, let me make you acquainted with Mr. Smith," Belknap was saying; and O'Connor turned
sharply back from the window.

To Mr. Belknap's courteous greeting he gave little heed, but like a charmed canary before a
cobra his look rested on the second man of the pair.  This was a young man with level, gray
eyes, who nodded slightly and cheerfully said:--

"How do you do, Mr. O'Connor."

No word said O'Connor; his eyes neither lowered nor turned aside their fascinated gaze.  Each
of the four men stood still, waiting for the little drama to end: a long minute.

"Here are the papers, Mr. Murch," said the intermediary, at last, turning to the financier.

"All right; let me look over them," said the other.

Five minutes later the Salamander had ceased to exist.

CHAPTER XXV

The March winds blustered over Boston, and the cold salt smell of the ocean was borne tempestuously
in upon the shivering city.  Chill and keen out of the northeast came the air that hinted not
at all of spring, but urgently of winter.  The people in the streets walked briskly, with no
laggard steps; they were accustomed to this sort of untimely treatment from the New England
climate, and they had no intention of being betrayed thereby into pondering over southern lands
or sunny vineclad hillsides where summer always lingered.  Boston might not be climatically
Utopian, but there was at all events something virile, something manly and admirable about
a sort of weather for which no other good word could be used.

Between the tall buildings in Kilby Street, where now for three weeks the current of the insurance
world had been flowing with quickened, almost feverish pulse, the activity on this blustering
day in middle March was undiminished.  Of the hastily arranged adjustment offices which the
magnitude of the conflagration had made necessary, nearly all had been given up, and the comparatively
few uncompleted adjustments of losses were now being handled through the regular offices.

It had been a titanic task, that of adjusting fire losses extending in the aggregate to between
one and two hundred millions of dollars--for there were some indications that the Boston property
damage would reach the latter figure.  But after three weeks of steady work, when the lines
of claimants before the adjusters' doors had hardly slackened a moment, the worst was over.
Three fourths of the claims had been settled; satisfactorily to all concerned by the larger
and more responsible companies; on a basis of offered compromise by those institutions tottering
on the brink of insolvency; dubiously, or with craven and flagrant unfairness by the stricken
"wildcats," the irresponsible undergrounders of America and Europe.  For every great fire unearths
the fact that there are always companies who will gladly accept premiums,--often at surprisingly
low rates,--although they are only mildly addicted to the payment of losses.  And every conflagration
also uncovers the fact that there are many penny-wise citizens who purchase this class of indemnity.
A great fire cleans, as nothing else does, the fire insurance stage of all but the fittest.

From this calamity, the greatest which had ever visited the city, Boston had, after a timeless
period of uncomprehending and demoralized helplessness, leaped anew into activity and life.
From all over the country, almost from all over the world, the need of the stricken city was
met by a magnificent and human response.  A vast catastrophe becomes nearly worth while by
virtue of the humanity it discovers. Food, clothing, money--all were donated with lavish hands,
and aid was rushed to Boston by a hundred trains.  In comparison with the area burned over,
the number of people made homeless was not great; and in three weeks the city had somehow managed
to drink up and absorb this surplus without leaving a sign.

Life had now begun to move more normally again; and already the city's gaze went forward toward
what was to be, rather than backward at what had been.  But in a certain Kilby Street office
two men were talking, one of whom still looked somewhat gloomily back, while the other, with
a smile of transcendent optimism, was engaged in the cosmic process of turning Boston's holocaust
into a fiery but triumphant feather for his own cap.

"Has that draft come in yet, Benny?" he was demanding.

"Came this morning," answered Cole, a trifle sourly.  "Here it is."

"Would you mind letting me have it?  Thanks.  This is the last one, isn't it?  They're all
here now?"

"Yes," said Cole, curtly; "this is the last."

"If you'll give me a large envelope, I'll take them with me, then," returned the first speaker.
"With a golden touch like Midas of old will I go forth into the presence of my distinguished
relation.  Benny, you are a base soul with no instincts above the commercial.  You do not appreciate
the situation.  We are rapidly approaching what is vulgarly termed the psychological moment.
If you had any more feeling than a dying invertebrate, you would want to come along and witness
the ceremony, which is entirely private and visitors admitted by card only."

"Thanks, but I don't care to," said Cole, shortly.

Since the change which came over the complexion of matters in his world, Cole was much less
assured and less assertive than before.  The receipt this morning of the Salamander's final
and largest loss draft marked the last public connection between that company and the Osgood
office.  The Salamander had reinsured, and the news of its fall was abroad on the streets of
Boston as in New York, the insurance talk of all the towns.  O'Connor, temporarily at least,
had disappeared, and no man knew what chasm had swallowed him up.  So far as Osgood and Company
were concerned, he and his company were both dead issues; and once more in the old office in
the corner Mr. Osgood could be seen in his wonted place.

Immediately following the conflagration Mr. Osgood had quietly resumed his authority as active
head of the firm; and the Guardian, having taken over the Salamander's unburned business, which
was in reality its own, once more acknowledged as its Boston representatives Messrs. Silas
Osgood and Company.  Of course the separation rule of the Boston Board was still nominally
in force; but with the legal decision pending there was no disposition on the part of any agency
or of any company to force an action of any sort.  In the face of a matter so great as the
conflagration had been, the smaller things, the lesser animosities, were allowed to slip peacefully
into forgotten limbo.  In due time the separation rule, its chief protagonist discredited and
gone none knew where, would be repealed, either under legal compulsion or without. When that
day came, the Guardian would be back in the position it had always enjoyed until Mr. O'Connor
played--and lost--his meteoric game.

In Mr. Cole's office, meanwhile, the small pile of checks and drafts was being counted over
with scrupulous care by Mr. Wilkinson.

"They seem to be in order," he said.  "Three hundred and fifty-five thousand, six hundred and
eighty-seven dollars and fifty-two cents. Benny, a thought strikes me!  Why should not an insurance
broker get a commission on losses as well as premiums?  It seems to me that that is a very
reasonable idea--I wonder it has never occurred to anybody before."

"You get your commission when the line is rewritten, of course," Cole responded.  "What more
do you want?"

"Why, that's so; I hadn't thought of that.  I presume that such an operation will be more or
less lucrative--unless my sagacious though unwilling father-in-law executes his sometime threat."

"Oh, I don't believe even John M. Hurd would be such a jackal without benefit of clergy as
to do that."

"Well, perhaps not.  Do you think of anything else, Benny, before I depart?"

"Absolutely nothing.  And for heaven's sake get out!--I'm busy, and you lend an atmosphere
of inertia to the whole place."

"And yet," returned Mr. Wilkinson, suavely, rising, nevertheless,--"and yet this is, in the
plebeian phrase of the world of trade, my busy day. To be sure I have other occasional days
when I handle transactions that run into the hundreds of thousands of dollars; but I don't
mind admitting to you that these usually take place in the last ineffable hour of slumber preceding
the dawn.  But to-day--to-day it is true! Benny, I will go to the length of buying you a drink,
a short and frugal drink."

"At eleven A.M.?  Not for me," responded Cole.  "Run along."

"I go," rejoined the other, gracefully, and the door swung shut behind his debonaire retreat.

A few minutes later to the youth from South Framingham he spoke nonchalantly:--

"Mr. Hurd?"

The calm presumption of that rising inflection seemed to indicate the absence of all doubt
as to whether Mr. Hurd would receive him.  The South Framingham scion regarded him with bovine
gaze.

"Yes, I guess he's in," he said dubiously.

"Then tell him, if you please, that Mr. Charles Wilkinson wishes to see him on a matter of
important business."  The sentence ended so incisively that South Framingham blinked.  Any
display of emotion more significant was not, perhaps, to be expected.  The messenger and his
message started vaguely toward the door of Mr. Hurd's private office, and for an awkward moment
no sound came forth.

"He says to come in," said South Framingham, reappearing.

"With alacrity but dignity," said Charles to himself; and found himself in another moment in
the presence of Mr. Hurd.  The traction magnate did not rise.  He laid the paper which he had
been reading on the desk before him, and looked fixedly across it at the intruder.

"Good-morning, sir," said Mr. Wilkinson, cheerfully.

Mr. Hurd's response to this greeting could only be denominated a grunt, but his visitor had
no desire to force an issue of cordiality, so, waiving the doubtful courtesy of this reply,
he continued:--

"Mrs. Hurd is well, I trust?"

"Mrs. Hurd is quite well, thank you.  Did you come here through any apprehension about her
health?" inquired the gentleman at the desk, with some degree of asperity to be detected in
his tone by one as well acquainted with him as was Charlie.  "I understood from my clerk that
you came on business."

"And so I did," said the unruffled Wilkinson, "although I always endeavor that business and
courtesy shall not necessarily exclude one another."

The financier looked sharply at the young man; but he felt that he was scarcely in a position
to take offense at such a commendable statement.

"My business," continued the visitor, "deals with one of the best single pieces of business
you ever did for the Massachusetts Light, Heat, and Traction Company."

"Is the loss finally closed up?" said Mr. Hurd, curtly.

His son-in-law stood dramatically before him; he slipped his left hand into the inner breast
pocket where reposed the documents with which his coup was to be made.

"Mr. Hurd," he said impressively, "you permitted me to place the insurance on your trolley
system because I convinced you that it ought to be insured.  Do you recall what I said about
the conflagration hazard in the congested district of Boston?  Well, I won't repeat it, but
until I called it to your notice you had never given it serious consideration.  And even after
the schedule was placed, you said that another year you would not carry insurance.  You may
also recall that you withheld your consent to a certain marriage, which I proposed to contract
with a member of your family, and which--"

"Stick to the matter in hand," suggested the traction magnate, tartly.

"I am doing so, because the point I want to make is this.  On both these matters, if you'll
pardon my saying so, you were equally wrong. You were afraid that as a son-in-law all my entries
would be on the wrong side of your ledger. Here they are, and, to use a colloquialism, I want
to rub them in.  Not to glorify my own acumen or to minimize yours,--you showed good judgment
to insure your property,--but to prove to you that you made a mistake about me."

"A mistake?" said the other man.

"A colossal mistake.  Your only objection to me as a son-in-law was on financial grounds. 
Show me, if you can, any young man you could have picked out as a husband for your daughter,
who within a few months could have saved your company three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
No, Mr. Hurd, you've done me a very great injustice.  And now, I'm going to ask two things of you."

"And what are they?" inquired Mr. Hurd.

"The first is your order for rewriting the schedule on the traction properties.  We'll take
up the second when we've finished that."

John M. Hurd gave a half hitch in his chair, and turned his face toward the window, the very
casement out of which he had gazed on the day when the fate of Mr. Wilkinson's scheme was first
decided.  Thoughtfully he looked out and down the busy street.  His visitor, by way of gently
stimulating his reverie, laid the companies' loss drafts within an inch of his unmoving fingers.
Unconsciously those fingers, which had through the long years acquired an inalienable tendency
toward the acquisition of legal tender in whatever form proffered--those fingers slowly, almost
automatically, but irrevocably, closed upon the little packet.

It seemed as though, from the contact, a soothing hint of balsam-laden pines, of comfort and
satisfaction for the soul, must have proceeded from those oblong papers.  Charlie, keenly watching,
beheld the stony countenance in front of him, as if permeated by some ineffable warmth, stir
and become human.  The miracle of Galatea was worked in this face before the very gaze of him
who had dispensed the beneficent influence. The grim lines around the mouth lost their inflexible
rigor; and slowly, unwillingly, almost shamefacedly there stole into the hard old visage the
hint, the wraith, the shadow of a smile.

Wise in his generation, Wilkinson left the work to the magic and sovereign forces now at play;
he did not risk marring the alchemy by a single word.  After a moment which seemed an hour
he found himself once more confronted by the direct observation of his step-uncle.

"You can have your trolley schedule," said John M. Hurd.  "You are certainly entitled to it.
What else you want I dare say I can guess. . . .  Suppose you bring Isabel up to Beacon Street
this afternoon to take tea with her mother--and me."

If Mr. Wilkinson cut a pigeon wing in the outer office, it was only the scion of South Framingham
whose amazement is recorded.  John M. Hurd, still smiling faintly, sat reflectively eyeing
the little pile of checks which his visitor had left, until at last he rang for his cashier.

"Endorse these and have them deposited immediately, Mr. Walsh," he said.

Meanwhile the telephone wires were buzzing under Mr. Wilkinson's energetic advertisement of
the latest society note.

"Extry!  Extry!" he announced to Isabel.  "All about the reconciliation of trust magnate with
beautiful though erring daughter!  Extry!  All about the soothing and emollient influence of
a little packet of stamped paper!  No, I've not gone suddenly insane, and I'll come home about
four, for we are due for tea at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. John M. Hurd."

To Deerfield Street, also, the glad word presently went, to meet there the sincere congratulations
of Miss Helen Maitland, who held the other end of the jubilant telephone.

"You'd better come, too, Helen.  We'll stop for you.  I really think it would be much smoother
if you were along.  And besides, Charlie says we ought to get father on record before a witness
in case a conservative turn takes him again."

"I was rather expecting to have tea here," Miss Maitland confessed, after a moment's hesitancy.
"Yes, Mr. Smith said he would probably come.  Very well--I will bring him along, if you'd really
like to have him, with great pleasure.  You'll call for us, Isabel?  Au revoir, then."

