"The whole guard burst out into a furious shout of enthusiastic exultation the SEA! the SEA!
was echoed along the whole army, below in the passes; Xenophon, from the uproar, thinking they
were attacked, galloped forward with the cavalry;[1] but seeing the cause, joined in the shout!
The feeling was too powerful to be resisted--men, women, and children, the veteran, the youth,
the officer, the private, beasts of burden, cattle, and horses, broke up like a torrent that
had burst a mountain rock, and rushed, headlong to the summit!

"As each, in succession, lifted his head up above the rocks, and really saw the SEA, nothing
could exceed the affecting display of gratitude and enthusiastic rapture!--some embraced, some
cried like children, some stamped like madmen, some fell on their knees and thanked the gods,
others were mute with gratitude, and stared as if bewildered!

"Never was such a scene seen! as soon as the soldiers recovered something like reason, a trophy
on a heap of stones and shields, was erected. The army descended the Colchian Mountains, and
reached Trapezus, the modern Trebizon, after a march of 1,155 leagues, during two hundred and
fifteen days, where they embarked for their native country.

"The moment I have taken is when Xenophon seeing the sea has rode forward to shout it to the
army. He is waving his helmet with one hand, and pointing to the sea with the other, mounted
on a skew-bald charger.

"Below the army are rushing up--in the centre is an officer, on a blood Arab, carrying his
wife. A veteran soldier on his left is supporting an exhausted youth who has sunk on his shield,
and pointing out the path to the army. On the right, is a young man carrying up on his back
his aged father who has lost his helmet--the trumpeter lower down, is blowing a blast to collect
the rear guard which are mounting behind him, while near the mare's head is the Greek band
with trumpets and cymbals encouraging the men. The army is rushing up under an opening of the
rock to the left, while the advanced guard of cavalry are trotting down the shelving top of
a precipice, the horses excited and snuffing up the sea air with ecstasy."

It would, however, be difficult to convey, by description, the overpowering energy and mighty
struggle of the scene before us, or the masterly skill with which the painter has brought within
a few square feet of canvass, one of the most astounding events in the history of man. Its
moral tendency should be a lasting lesson of the secret spring of honourable success in life--decision
of character and well-directed energies to accomplish great ends--though applicable to every
station of life, however humble.

Xenophon is a distant figure in this effective picture: his action, as well as that of the
cavalry, about him is admirably expressed: he appears on the pinnacle of triumph; his charger
snuffs the very gale of glory, and the uncurbed energy of exultation seems to animate those
immediately around him. The eye descends to the checkered toil beneath: the brawny soldier
bearing the delicate form of his lovely wife, which is well contrasted with the bold, muscular
figure of the former: the exhausted youth, and the veteran directing the army, but especially
the former, are finely drawn and painted: the bare head of the aged man, with his few last
locks fluttering in the wind, contrasts with the burly-headed trumpeter, whose thick throat
and outblown cheeks denote the energy which he is throwing into this last inspiring call to
victory over difficulty. The head of the soldier's blood Arab is one of the finest studies
of the group: you almost see the breath of his nostrils; the hinder parts and tail of the horse
are not quite of equal merit. These are but a few of the points of excellence in the picture:
its colouring is censurable for its roughness, especially by those who enjoy the smoothly-finished
productions of certain British artists; but we may look to such in vain for the powerful drawing
and forcible expression which characterize this, the finest of Mr. Haydon's pictures.

In the same room, vis a vis the Xenophon, is the Mock Election picture described at some length
in No. 304, of The Mirror. About the walls are thirteen finished sketches and studies also
by Mr. Haydon. We may notice them anon.

    [1] Recently formed.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAINTING ON GLASS.

An exhibition of paintings in enamel colours on glass has been opened at No. 357, Strand, which
is likely to prove attractive to the patrons of art as well as to the sight-seeing public.
It consists of faithful copies of Harlow's Kemble Family; Martin's Belshazzar, Joshua, and
Love among the Roses; Sir Joshua Reynolds's celebrated group of Charity, and a tasteful composition
of a Vase of Flowers with fruit, &c. The whole are ably executed, and calculated to advance
the art of painting on glass to its olden eminence. The copies from Martin are of the size
of his prints, and are perhaps the most successful: that of Joshua commanding the Sun to stand
still is powerfully striking: the supernal light breaking from the dense panoply of clouds
is admirably executed, and the minuteness of the architectural details and the fighting myriads
is indescribable. In the Hall of Belshazzar, the perspective is ably preserved throughout,
though the interest of the picture is not of that intense character that we recognise in Joshua.
The painting of the Trial of Queen Katherine is of the size of Clint's masterly print: it required
greater delicacy in copying than did either of its companion pictures, since it has few of
the strong lights and vivid contrasts so requisite for complete success on glass. The costumes
are well managed, as the red of Wolsey's robes, and the massy velvet dress of Katherine. Of
this print, by the way, there are appended to the Catalogue a few particulars which may be
new and pleasant to the reader. Thus:--

"The Picture is on mahogany panel, 1-1/2 inch in thickness, and in size, about 7 feet by 5
feet. It originated with Mr. T. Welsh, the meritorious professor of music, in whose possession
the picture remains. This gentleman commissioned Harlow to paint for him a kit-cat size portrait
of Mrs. Siddons, in the character of Queen Katherine in Shakspeare's Play of Henry VIII., introducing
a few of the scenic accessories in the distance. For this portrait Harlow was to receive twenty-five
guineas; but the idea of representing the whole scene occurred to the artist, who, with Mr.
Welsh, prevailed upon most of the actors to sit for their portraits: in addition to these,
are introduced portraits of the friends of both parties, including the artist himself. The
sum ultimately paid by Mr. Welsh was one hundred guineas; and a like sum was paid by Mr. Cribb,
for Harlow's permission to engrave the well-known print, to which we have already adverted.
The panel upon which the picture is painted, is stated to have cost the artist 15l.

"Concerning this picture we find the following notice by Knowles, in his Life of Fuseli. Harlow
profited by these remarks; and the next time we saw the picture, the whole arrangement in the
fore-ground was changed. Fuseli then said, 'so far you have done well: but now you have not
introduced a back figure, to throw the eye of the spectator into the picture;' and then pointed
out by what means he might improve it in this particular. Accordingly, Harlow introduced the
two boys who are taking up the cushion."[2]

"It has been stated that the majority of the actors in the scene sat for their portraits in
this picture. Mr. Kemble, however, refused, when asked to do so by Mr. Welsh, strengthening
his refusal with emphasis profane. Harlow was not to be defeated, and he actually drew Mr.
Kemble's portrait in one of the stage-boxes of Covent Garden Theatre, while the great actor
was playing his part on the stage. The vexation of such a ruse to a man of Mr. Kemble's temperament,
can better be imagined than described: how it succeeded, must be left to the judgment of the
reader. Egerton, Pope, and Stephen Kemble, were successively painted for Henry VIII., the artist
retaining the latter. The head of Mr. Charles Kemble was likewise twice painted: the first,
which cost Mr. C. Kemble many sittings, was considered by himself and others, very successful.
The artist thought otherwise; and, contrary to Mr. Kemble's wish and remonstrance, he one morning
painted out the approved head: in a day or two, however, entirely from recollection, Harlow
re-painted the portrait with increased fidelity. Mr. Cunningham, we may here notice, has erroneously
stated, that Harlow required but one sitting of Mrs. Siddons. The fact is, the accomplished
actress held her up-lifted arm frequently till she could hold it raised no longer, and the
majestic limb was finished from another original."

The lights of Love among the Roses are vivid and beautiful: the whole composition will be recollected
as of a charming character.

By the way, persons unpractised in the art of painting on glass, or in transparent enamel,
have but a slender idea of its difficulties. Crown-glass is preferred for its greater purity.
The artist has not only to paint the picture, but to fire it in a kiln, with the most scrupulous
attention to produce the requisite effects, and the uncertainty of this branch of the art is
frequently a sad trial of patience. Hence, the firing or vitrification of the colours is of
paramount importance, and the art thus becomes a two-fold trial of skill. Its cost is, however,
only consistent with its brilliant effect.

    [2] Quoted in Cunningham's Life of Harlow.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

TEA.

What can we do with this pamphlet?--British Relations with the Chinese Empire--Comparative
Statement of the English and American Trade with India and Canton. What a book for a tea-drinking
old lady, or Dr. Johnson, of tea-loving notoriety, with his thirteen cups to the dozen.

"The writer has passed the last eleven years of his life in visiting every quarter of the globe,
and the colonial possessions of Great Britain, in order to acquire an intimate knowledge of
her commercial affairs, for political purposes." The reader will, perhaps, say this pamphlet
is purely political, and what have you to do with it? But it is not so: there are facts in
these pages which interest every one and come home to every man's mouth: the political purpose
is to us like chaff; and these facts like grains of wheat, so we will even pick a few. Meanwhile,
the whole pamphlet must be important to all, as to ourselves parts are interesting: it represents
the literature of the tea trade, and, best of all, the profitable literature of L.s.d. It is
written in a patriotic spirit; witness this extract from the preface: "To a commercial union
of wealth, and a co-operation of talent and patriotism, a small island in the Western Atlantic
is indebted for the acquisition of one of the most splendid empires that ever was subjected
to the dominion of man, and also for the rise and progress of an extraordinary commerce with
a people inhabiting a distant hemisphere, and heretofore shut out from all intercourse with
the majority of the human race;--a commerce equal in extent to 10,000,000l. annually, and involving
property to the amount of ten times that sum."

Our facts must stand isolated, since to weave them into an argument would be altogether foreign
to our purpose.

