"It was a very wrong thing to make a vow so sinful," said Rochecliffe; "but it would have been
greatly worse had you endeavoured to keep it. Therefore, I bid you cheer up," said the good
divine; "for in this unhappy case, I could not have wished, after what I have heard from Phoebe
and yourself, that you should have kept your hand still, though I may regret that the blow
has proved fatal. Nevertheless, thou hast done even that which was done by the great and inspired
legislator, when he beheld an Egyptian tyrannizing over a Hebrew, saving that, in the case
present, it was a female, when, says the Septuagint, Percussum Egyptium abscondit sabulo; the
meaning whereof I will explain to you another time. Wherefore, I exhort you not to grieve beyond
measure; for although this circumstance is unhappy in time and place, yet, from what Phoebe
hath informed me of yonder wretch's opinions, it is much to be regretted that his brains had
not been beaten out in his cradle, rather than that he had grown up to be one of those Grindlestonians,
or Muggletonians, in whom is the perfection of every foul and blasphemous heresy, united with
such an universal practice of hypocritical assentation as would deceive their master, even
Satan himself."

"Nevertheless, sir," said the forester, "I hope you will bestow some of the service of the
Church on this poor man, as it was his last wish, naming you, sir, at the same time; and unless
this were done, I should scarce dare to walk out in the dark again for my whole life."

"Thou art a silly fellow; but if," continued the Doctor, "he named me as he departed, and desired
the last rites of the Church, there was, it may be, a turning from evil and a seeking to good
even in his last moments; and if Heaven granted him grace to form a prayer so fitting, wherefore
should man refuse it? All I fear is the briefness of time."

"Nay, your reverence may cut the service somewhat short," said Joceline; "assuredly he does
not deserve the whole of it; only if something were not to be done, I believe I should flee
the country. They were his last words; and methinks he sent Bevis with his glove to put me
in mind of them."

"Out, fool! Do you think," said the Doctor, "dead men send gauntlets to the living, like knights
in a romance; or, if so, would they choose dogs to carry their challenges? I tell thee, fool,
the cause was natural enough. Bevis, questing about, found the body, and brought the glove
to you to intimate where it was lying, and to require assistance; for such is the high instinct
of these animals towards one in peril."

"Nay, if you think so, Doctor," said Joceline--"and, doubtless, I must say, Bevis took an interest
in the man--if indeed it was not something worse in the shape of Bevis, for methought his eyes
looked wild and fiery, as if he would have spoken."

As he talked thus, Joceline rather hung back, and, in doing so, displeased the Doctor, who
exclaimed, "Come along, thou lazy laggard! Art thou a soldier, and a brave one, and so much
afraid of a dead man? Thou hast killed men in battle and in chase, I warrant thee."

"Ay, but their backs were to me," said Joceline. "I never saw one of them cast back his head,
and glare at me as yonder fellow did, his eye retaining a glance of hatred, mixed with terror
and reproach, till it became fixed like a jelly. And were you not with me, and my master's
concerns, and something else, very deeply at stake, I promise you I would not again look at
him for all Woodstock."

"You must, though," said the Doctor, suddenly pausing, "for here is the place where he lies.
Come hither deep into the copse; take care of stumbling--Here is a place just fitting, and
we will draw the briars over the grave afterwards."

As the Doctor thus issued his directions, he assisted also in the execution of them; and while
his attendant laboured to dig a shallow and mishapen grave, a task which the state of the soil,
perplexed with roots, and hardened by the influence of the frost, rendered very difficult,
the divine read a few passages out of the funeral service, partly in order to appease the superstitious
terrors of Joceline, and partly because he held it matter of conscience not to deny the Church's
rites to one who had requested their aid in extremity.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRTY SECOND.

  Case ye, case ye,--on with your vizards.
             HENRY IV.

The company whom we had left in Victor Lee's parlour were about to separate for the night,
and had risen to take a formal leave of each other, when a tap was heard at the hall-door.
Albert, the vidette of the party, hastened to open it, enjoining, as he left the room, the
rest to remain quiet, until he had ascertained the cause of the knocking. When he gained the
portal, he called to know who was there, and what they wanted at so late an hour.

"It is only me," answered a treble voice.

"And what is your name, my little fellow?" said Albert.

"Spitfire, sir," replied the voice without.

"Spitfire?" said Albert.

"Yes, sir," replied the voice; "all the world calls me so, and Colonel Everard himself. But
my name is Spittal for all that."

"Colonel Everard? arrive you from him?" demanded young Lee.

"No, sir; I come, sir, from Roger Wildrake, esquire, of Squattlesea-mere, if it like you,"
said the boy; "and I have brought a token to Mistress Lee, which I am to give into her own
hands, if you would but open the door, sir, and let me in--but I can do nothing with a three-inch
board between us."

"It is some freak of that drunken rakehell," said Albert, in a low voice, to his sister, who
had crept out after him on tiptoe.

"Yet, let us not be hasty in concluding so," said the young lady; "at this moment the least
trifle may be of consequence.--What tokens has Master Wildrake sent me, my little boy?"

"Nay, nothing very valuable neither," replied the boy; "but he was so anxious you should get
it, that he put me out of window as one would chuck out a kitten, that I might not be stopped
by the soldiers."

"Hear you?" said Alice to her brother; "undo the gate, for God's sake." Her brother, to whom
her feelings of suspicion were now sufficiently communicated, opened the gate in haste, and
admitted the boy, whose appearance, not much dissimilar to that of a skinned rabbit in a livery,
or a monkey at a fair, would at another time have furnished them with amusement. The urchin
messenger entered the hall, making several odd bows, and delivered the woodcock's feather with
much ceremony to the young lady, assuring her it was the prize she had won upon a wager about
hawking.

"I prithee, my little man," said Albert, "was your master drunk or sober, when he sent thee
all this way with a feather at this time of night?"

"With reverence, sir," said the boy, "he was what he calls sober, and what I would call concerned
in liquor for any other person."

"Curse on the drunken coxcomb!" said Albert,--"There is a tester for thee, boy, and tell thy
master to break his jests on suitable persons, and at fitting times."

"Stay yet a minute," exclaimed Alice; "we must not go too fast--this craves wary walking."

"A feather," said Albert; "all this work about a feather! Why, Doctor Rochecliffe, who can
suck intelligence out of every trifle as a magpie would suck an egg, could make nothing of this."

"Let us try what we can do without him then," said Alice. Then addressing herself to the boy,--"So
there are strangers at your master's?"

"At Colonel Everard's, madam, which is the same thing," said Spitfire.

"And what manner of strangers," said Alice; "guests, I suppose?"

