I have recently been introduced to many very interesting Germans, both diplomats and officers,
and have obtained many valuable ideas. The reply I receive whenever I ask Germans what they
want and expect to gain in this war, and what terms of peace they, at present, hope to secure,
is almost invariably the same. They all say: "we will never give up Belgium; we mean to keep
Poland; we would like to have Calais and hope eventually to get it, but...." They point out
that they have so far constantly taken the offensive rôle, which must often fail in modern
war, being by far the more difficult part to play. They declare with conviction that when once
they take the defensive they can never be beaten back. They cite the fact that for the last
three months they have on the Aisne in temporary positions maintained an unbroken front, despite
the persistent efforts of the Allies to drive them back. They add that except Calais and Warsaw
they now hold virtually everything they want, and to keep it permanently they need only to
stand on the defensive.

A few weeks of victory or defeat will naturally modify their present ambitions. From a material
standpoint it is difficult to refute their argument, but moral and sentimental reasons have
before now turned the tide against the "strongest battalions," despite Napoleon's verdict.
Germany herself begins to suspect that her brutal invasion of Belgium has turned the moral
sentiment of the world against her, and that her defeat would grieve few people not of German
birth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Berlin, Sunday, December 6th. About the atrocities in Belgium there is, apparently, no question,
but considering the way the Germans controlled themselves in France, some explanation of their
brutality farther north in Belgian Flanders is necessary. The Germans say that the cruelties
were not all on one side; that the Belgians practised sniping, impeded the German army, and
mutilated German wounded. The only one of these charges that seems to have been proved is that
of sniping, but even if other cruelties were committed it must be remembered that the moral
status of the Belgians was entirely different from that of the Germans. The Belgians were aroused
to blind fury by the disregard of their neutrality rights and the unwarranted invasion of their
peaceful country. Even from Germans I have heard no excuses for the violation of Belgium which
might not have been equally well put forward by a needy burglar who breaks into an unprotected
house and plunders it after bludgeoning its helpless inmates. Is it remarkable that the liberty-loving
Belgian peasant who saw his home destroyed or his family abused, knew no sufficient reason
why he should stand supinely by and welcome the destroyer? More brave than wise, too furious
to reason calmly, he did what he could to retaliate, which is against the rules of war. Consequently
a merciless foe inflicted the uttermost penalty upon him, his family, and the whole region
in which he lived. The world has never witnessed more frightful and disproportionate punishments.

The Germans on the other hand were morally in quite a different case. They were the aggressors,
the treaty breakers, and the invaders of a peaceful country of neighbors and friends. Their
part was to be tolerant and to make allowance for individual violations of the rules of war.
The world at large will never concede that occasional instances of sniping can justify the
destruction of whole villages, the execution of thousands of men, and the violation of thousands
of women. When our American marines occupied Vera Cruz similar instances of sniping were frequent.
Our men did not, however, burn, kill, rape, and pillage. They were forced to fire at the custom-house
because it was occupied by snipers and in so doing they incidentally damaged the tower of the
building. After the fighting was over, the Americans felt such regret for even this necessary
bit of destruction that they rebuilt what their shells had damaged. Their only retaliatory
action was to shoot snipers when they were caught red-handed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Monday, December 7th. The German infantry, after spending a certain length of time at the front,
are given a vacation and sent home. I could not ascertain the exact length of their stay in
the trenches although it seems to be about a month. The artillery stay continuously on the
battle-line as their work is less arduous and nerve-racking, since they are always somewhat
toward the rear and usually well housed. Moreover, they fire only occasionally and have long
periods of inactivity. The cavalry spends one week in action and then one week in the rear,
some ten or fifteen miles behind the firing-line.

Recently I had a long conversation with a German statesman of ambassadorial rank, who spoke
with intense feeling of the plight of the thousands of German subjects, men, women, and children,
who had been caught in France at the opening of the war and interned in detention camps. He
said: "It is ridiculous for the French to suspect any of these people of being spies, for German
spies are not weak or unprotected, but strong, picked men and women, highly trained to make
technical observations. In the present scientific age untechnical observations are valueless.
When I was Minister Plenipotentiary at ---- there were many thousands of German subjects in
that city and not one of them could have given me information of any possible value to our
great General Staff. German spies in France are neutral or French in nationality, or pretend
to be such, and they all carry unimpeachable papers. For a man to admit frankly and openly
that he is a German is proof enough that he is not a spy. We in Germany recognize this and
do not shut up alien enemies who frankly announce their nationality."

It was not fitting that I should enter into diplomatic discussion with a high German official,
but if I had been talking as man to man, I could have reminded him that the spy panic which
seized Paris at the outbreak of the war was entirely the fault of Germany herself, for it is
an open secret that her spy system is her pet weapon of offense; her enemies therefore, naturally,
see a spy in every Teuton. It is also well understood that, spy or no spy, every German man,
woman, and child is admonished, when traveling in foreign countries, to "watch, record, and
report anything of interest to the German Government."

All the accusations that have been brought against France, that she did not properly provide
for her interned prisoners, that she did not adequately care for her own wounded or the wounded
of her enemy, that she did not give efficient support to her English allies on the retreat
from Mons to Compiègne, resolve themselves into one conclusion, that she did not want or expect
instant war and was not prepared for all the emergencies which the German attack precipitated.
But all the world knows that she speedily supplied deficiencies and remedied defects with great
ability and indomitable courage.

In saying that alien civilians in Germany were not interned in prison camps the German diplomat
evidently thought I knew nothing about the vile detention camps at Ruhleben and of the English
men and women who are there incarcerated to suffer beyond anything that the Germans ever endured
in France.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tuesday, December 8th. I went to the American Embassy this morning to obtain the necessary
paper for my departure tomorrow for Vienna. Mr. Grew called me into his private office and
said that Ambassador Gerard was particularly anxious that I should go to London instead as
he had dispatches of the utmost importance to send and would feel indebted to me if I could
take them. He warned me that the undertaking would not be pleasant or altogether safe. I promptly
accepted the mission,--indeed such requests are, in the Army, the Navy, and the Diplomatic
Service, made only to be accepted. I am to leave Berlin Thursday morning at 8:59 and go through
Germany and Holland to Flushing, where I shall take a boat across the North Sea to Folkestone
and thence to our Embassy in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

This evening I looked over the casualty lists posted on the walls of an official building.
These lists are published on numerous very large sheets of white paper. Each sheet has three
columns in fine print. The names are grouped by regiments and companies, so that all the casualties
of one company appear together; each name is given in full, is prefixed by the rank, and followed
by the nature of the casualty, which is one of five things: Gefallen (fallen, killed); schwer
verwundet (badly wounded); verwundet (wounded); leicht verwundet (lightly wounded); vermisst
(missing). A casualty list is published every day, comprising from forty to fifty of the above-mentioned
sheets, each sheet containing nearly three hundred names.

The last seven sheets were as follows:

     No. 90 published    Dec. 1--40 sheets
         91    "          "   2--50   "
         92    "          "   3--52   "
         93    "          "   4--44   "
         94    "          "   5--52   "
         95    "          "   6--48   "
         96    "          "   8--48   "

This gives a rate of more than 12,000 casualties a day. The lists are complete up to October
30th. Only the last ten lists are kept posted and thus tonight there were numbers 87-96. The
sheets of these ten lists were posted in a double row on the outside wall of the building along
the sidewalk. They extended the length of a block and then around the corner another block.
As the columns of one regiment finished, those of the next commenced. I copied the record of
a battalion chosen at random.

     Eighty-second Bavarian Casualty List
     11th Infantry Regiment of Regensburg
                Third Battalion

(Here followed a list of places and dates of actions in which the Regiment had taken part):

    Faxe, August 20th; Manhouè, August 23d; Maize and Drouville,
    August 25th; Tourbeffeaus, Sept. 7th to 9th; Spada, Sept.
    24th; St. Mihiel, Sept. 28th and Oct. 7th to 24th; Ailly,
    Oct. 1st and 2d; Han-sur-Meuse (date illegible).

(Then followed a detailed list of casualties suffered by the four companies of the battalion):

    Company 9 had a list of 148 casualties, of which 18 were
    killed, 35 missing, 42 wounded, and badly wounded, and 43
    slightly wounded;

    Company 10 followed with a list of 146 names, of which 19
    were killed, 51 missing, 66 wounded and badly wounded, and 46
    slightly wounded;

    The Eleventh Company with a list of 188 names.

    The Twelfth Company with a list of 143 names;

A German battalion is composed of four companies of 250 men each. Thus among one thousand men
there were more than six hundred casualties in the first three months of the war, and this
seemed to be about an average list. These lists take no account of those who "died of wounds,"
and "missing" is usually a polite way of saying "dead." It means that the man was too badly
hurt to escape, to be helped by his comrades, or to crawl back, and probably was left "between
the lines" to die. This explains what at first appears to be a singularly small percentage
of killed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Berlin, Wednesday, December 9th. This afternoon I made my final arrangements for the trip to
London. Whenever a special messenger departs with dispatches from the Embassy a Jäger accompanies
him to the train, carries the mail-bags and pouch, and sees him safely settled in his compartment.
When he arrives at his final destination another Jäger from the Embassy to which he is going
meets him at the station.

CHAPTER IX

CARRYING DISPATCHES FROM BERLIN TO LONDON

Thursday, December 10th. Soon after the train left Berlin this morning I judged that I was
being shadowed. When it pulled out of the station there were four people, including myself,
in the six-place compartment, the two middle seats being vacant, one on my left as I sat next
the window and the other diagonally facing me. Soon after the train was well started two men
came in and occupied these seats. This in itself was suspicious, since people do not seek seats
while a train is in motion. Both moreover had the air of being detectives. I, by this time,
know the type well, for I have been constantly shadowed ever since my arrival in Germany and
am perfectly certain that my rooms have several times been searched while I was absent. I simply
continued to behave with the greatest possible circumspection, the two detectives meanwhile
staring at me constantly with fixed intensity.

It was a bit unpleasant because I did not certainly know the nature of the dispatches I carried,
but realized that they were extremely important. They were in a small leather mail pouch, padlocked
and sealed, which I had set on the floor between my feet and knees. Everything went quietly
for some two hours. I could not look out of the window in towns and yards because I might have
seen troop-trains, factories, etc., and that would have been "indiscreet." The part of Germany
from Berlin to Holland is utterly flat and uninteresting, so that there was no pleasure in
looking at the countryside between stations. I pretended to doze, or read three German weeklies
which I had bought. One of these finally precipitated matters. It was the Fliegende Blätter,
a comic paper of about the class of Life or Punch. There was in it a joke in German argot which
had been too much for my scant knowledge of the language and the courier who had escorted me
from the Embassy had by the merest hazard translated it for me. In my desperate efforts to
amuse myself I was looking through this sheet again and encountering this joke thought, "If
I don't write down the English I shall forget it." Whereupon I took out a pencil and wrote
the translation interlinearly.

Soon afterwards one of the detectives got up, went out into the corridor, and came back with
three conductors who, in Germany, of course, are military officials. The three civilians who
had shared the compartment left us as if they had been rehearsed. One of the detectives then
suddenly burst into a perfect berserker rage, getting quite purple in the face, and snatching
up the Fliegende Blätter proceeded carefully to turn over the pages again and again, holding
each page against the light. It was altogether melodramatically ridiculous. Taking the paper
from me in this way, although offensive, was perhaps within his rights since it concerned me
only in a personal and not in an official way, and so I sat quite calmly in my seat and, biding
my time, made no move of any kind. I paid no attention to the conductors, judging the detective
to be the kingpin and the conductors merely dragged in as a matter of routine. None of them
could read English and they chose to regard the interlineation (one line of about ten words)
as extraordinarily suspicious.

