"[56]

              [Footnote 56: The best references for the history of
              Josephine de Beauharnais are Masson: Joséphine de
              Beauharnais, 1763-1796, and Joséphine, impératrice et
              reine; Hall: Napoleon's letters to Josephine; Lévy:
              Napoléon intime; together with the memoirs of Joseph,
              Bourrienne, Ducrest, Dufort de Cheverney, and Rémusat.]

And thus it was in the matter of his courtship: there were elements in it of romantic, abandoned
passion, but likewise of shrewd, calculating selfishness. In his callow youth his relations
to the other sex had been either childish, morbid, or immoral. During his earliest manhood
he had appeared like one who desired the training rather than the substance of gallantry. As
a Jacobin he sought such support as he could find in the good will of the women related to
men in power; as a French patriot he put forth strenuous efforts to secure an influential alliance
through matrimony. He appears to have addressed Mme. Permon, whose fortune, despite her advanced
age, would have been a great relief to his destitution. Refused by her, he was in a disordered
and desperate emotional state until military and political success gave him sufficient self-confidence
to try once more. With his feet firmly planted on the ladder of ambition, he was not indifferent
to securing social props for a further rise, but was nevertheless in such a tumult of feeling
as to make him particularly receptive to real passion. He had made advances for the hand of
the rich and beautiful Désirée Clary;[57] the first evidence in his correspondence of a serious
intention to marry her is contained in the letter of June eighteenth, 1795, to Joseph; and
for a few weeks afterward he wrote at intervals with some impatience, as if she were coy. In
explanation it is claimed that Napoleon, visiting her long before at the request of Joseph,
who was then enamoured of her, had himself become interested, and persuading his brother to
marry her sister, had entered into an understanding with her which was equivalent to a betrothal.
Time and distance had cooled his ardor. He now virtually threw her over for Mme. Beauharnais,
who dazzled and infatuated him. This claim is probably founded on fact, but there is no evidence
sufficient to sustain a charge of positive bad faith on the part of Napoleon. Neither he nor
Mlle. Clary appears to have been ardent when Joseph as intermediary began, according to French
custom, to arrange the preliminaries of marriage; and when General Buonaparte fell madly in
love with Mme. Beauharnais the matter was dropped.

              [Footnote 57: See Hochschild: Désirée, reine de Suède.]

CHAPTER XXIV.

A Marriage of Inclination and Interest[58].

              [Footnote 58: The authorities for this chapter are as
              for the last.]

     The Taschers and Beauharnais -- Execution of Alexandre
     Beauharnais -- Adventures of His Widow -- Meeting of
     Napoleon and Josephine -- The Latter's Uncertainties -- Her
     Character and Station -- Passion and Convenience -- The
     Bride's Dowry -- Buonaparte's Philosophy of Life -- The
     Ladder to Glory.

[Sidenote: 1796.]

In 1779, while the boys at Brienne were still tormenting the little untamed Corsican nobleman,
and driving him to his garden fortalice to seek lonely refuge from their taunts in company
with his Plutarch, there had arrived in Paris from Martinique a successful planter of that
island, a French gentleman of good family, M. Tascher de la Pagerie, bringing back to that
city for the second time his daughter Josephine. She was then a girl of sixteen, without either
beauty or education, but thoroughly matured, and with a quick Creole intelligence and a graceful
litheness of figure which made her a most attractive woman. She had spent the years of her
life from ten to fourteen in the convent of Port Royal. Having passed the interval in her native
isle, she was about to contract a marriage which her relatives in France had arranged. Her
betrothed was the younger son of a family friend, the Marquis de Beauharnais. The bride landed
on October twentieth, and the ceremony took place on December thirteenth. The young vicomte
brought his wife home to a suitable establishment in the capital. Two children were born to
them--Eugène and Hortense; but before the birth of the latter the husband quarreled with his
wife, for reasons that have never been known. The court granted a separation, with alimony,
to Mme. de Beauharnais, who some years later withdrew to her father's home in Martinique. Her
husband sailed to America with the forces of Bouillé, and remained there until the outbreak
of the Revolution, when he returned, and was elected a deputy to the States-General.

Becoming an ardent republican, he was several times president of the National Assembly, and
his house was an important center of influence. In 1790 M. Tascher died, and his daughter,
with her children, returned to France. It was probably at her husband's instance, for she at
once joined him at his country-seat, where they continued to live, as "brother and sister,"
until Citizen Beauharnais was made commander of the Army of the Rhine. As the days of the Terror
approached, every man of noble blood was more and more in danger. At last Beauharnais's turn
came; he too was denounced to the Commune, and imprisoned. Before long his wife was behind
the same bars. Their children were in the care of an aunt, Mme. Églé, who had been, and was
again to be, a woman of distinction in the social world, but had temporarily sought the protection
of an old acquaintance, a former abbé, who had become a member of the Commune. The gallant
young general was not one of the four acquitted out of the batch of forty-nine among whom he
was finally summoned to the bar of the revolutionary tribunal. He died on June twenty-third,
1794, true to his convictions, acknowledging in his farewell letter to his wife a fraternal
affection for her, and committing solemnly to her charge his own good name, which she was to
restore by proving his devotion to France. The children were to be her consolation; they were
to wipe out the disgrace of his punishment by the practice of virtue and--civism!

During her sojourn in prison Mme. Beauharnais had made a most useful friend. This was a fellow-sufferer
of similar character, but far greater gifts, whose maiden name was Cabarrus, who was later
Mme. de Fontenay, who was afterward divorced and, having married Tallien, the Convention deputy
at Bordeaux, became renowned as his wife, and who, divorced a second and married a third time,
died as the Princesse de Chimay. The ninth of Thermidor saved them both from the guillotine.
In the days immediately subsequent they had abundant opportunity to display their light but
clever natures. Mme. Beauharnais, as well as her friend, unfolded her wings like a butterfly
as she escaped from the bars of her cell. Being a Creole, and having matured early, her physical
charms were already fading. Her spirit, too, had reached and passed its zenith; for in her
letters of that time she describes herself as listless. Nevertheless, in those very letters
there is some sprightliness, and considerable ability of a certain kind. A few weeks after
her liberation, having apprenticed Eugène and Hortense to an upholsterer and a dressmaker respectively,[59]
she was on terms of intimacy with Barras so close as to be considered suspicious, while her
daily intercourse was with those who had brought her husband to a terrible end. In a luxurious
and licentious society, she was a successful intriguer in matters both of politics and of pleasure;
versed in the arts of coquetry and dress, she became for the needy and ambitious a successful
intermediary with those in power. Preferring, as she rather ostentatiously asserted, to be
guided by another's will, she gave little thought to her children, or to the sad legacy of
her husband's good name. She emulated, outwardly at least, the unprincipled worldliness of
those about her, although her friends believed her kind-hearted and virtuous. Whatever her
true nature was, she had influence among the foremost men of that gay set which was imitating
the court circles of old, and an influence which had become not altogether agreeable to the
immoral Provençal noble who entertained and supported the giddy coterie. Perhaps the extravagance
of the languid Creole was as trying to Barras as it became afterward to her second husband.

              [Footnote 59: See Pulitzer: Une idylle sous Napoléon I.]

The meeting of Napoleon and Josephine was an event of the first importance.[60] His own account
twice relates that a beautiful and tearful boy presented himself, soon after the disarmament
of the sections, to the commander of the city, and asked for the sword of his father. The request
was granted, and next day the boy's mother, Mme. Beauharnais, came to thank the general for
his kindly act of restitution. Captivated by her grace, Buonaparte was thenceforward her slave.
A cold critic must remember that in the first place there was no disarmament of anybody after
the events of October fifth, the only action of the Convention which might even be construed
into hostility being a decree making emigrants ineligible for election to the legislature under
the new constitution; that in the second place this story attributes to destiny what was really
due to the friendship of Barras, a fact which his beneficiary would have liked to forget or
conceal; and finally, that the beneficiary left another account in which he confessed that
he had first met his wife at Barras's house, this being confirmed by Lucien in his memoirs.
Of the passion there is no doubt; it was a composite emotion, made up in part of sentiment,
in part of self-interest. Those who are born to rude and simple conditions in life are often
dazzled by the charmed etiquette and mysterious forms of artificial society. Napoleon never
affected to have been born to the manner, nor did he ever pretend to have adopted its exacting
self-control, for he could not; although after the winter of 1795 he frequently displayed a
weak and exaggerated regard for social conventions. It was not that he had need to assume a
false and superficial polish, or that he particularly cared to show his equality with those
accustomed to polite society; but that he probably conceived the splendid display and significant
formality of that ancient nobility which had so cruelly snubbed him from the outset as being,
nevertheless, the best conceivable prop to a throne.

              [Footnote 60: Mémorial, II, 258; III, 402.]

Lucien looked on with interest, and thought that during the whole winter his brother was rather
courted than a suitor. In his memoirs he naïvely wonders what Napoleon would have done in Asia,--either
in the Indian service of England, or against her in that of Russia, for in his early youth
he had also thought of that,--in fact, what he would have done at all, without the protection
of women, in which he so firmly believed, if he had not, after the manner of Mohammed, found
a Kadijah at least ten years older than himself, by whose favor he was set at the opening of
a great career. There are hints, too, in various contemporary documents and in the circumstances
themselves that Barras was an adroit match-maker. In a letter attributed to Josephine, but
without address, a bright light seems to be thrown on the facts. She asks a female friend for
advice on the question of the match. After a jocular introduction of her suitor as anxious
to become a father to the children of Alexandre de Beauharnais and the husband of his widow,
she gives a sportive but merciless dissection of her own character, and declares that while
she does not love Buonaparte, she feels no repugnance. But can she meet his wishes or fulfil
his desires? "I admire the general's courage; the extent of his information about all manner
of things, concerning which he talks equally well; the quickness of his intelligence, which
makes him catch the thought of another even before it is expressed: but I confess I am afraid
of the power he seems anxious to wield over all about him. His piercing scrutiny has in it
something strange and inexplicable, that awes even our directors; think, then, how it frightens
a woman."[61] The writer is also terrified by the very ardor of her suitor's passion. Past
her first youth, how can she hope to keep for herself that "violent tenderness" which is almost
a frenzy? Would he not soon cease to love her, and regret the marriage? If so, her only resource
would be tears--a sorry one, indeed, but still the only one. "Barras declares that if I marry
the general, he will secure for him the chief command of the Army of Italy. Yesterday Buonaparte,
speaking of this favor, which, although not yet granted, already has set his colleagues in
arms to murmuring, said: 'Do they think I need protection to succeed? Some day they will be
only too happy if I give them mine. My sword is at my side, and with it I shall go far.' What
do you think of this assurance of success? Is it not a proof of confidence arising from excessive
self-esteem? A general of brigade protecting the heads of the government! I don't know; but
sometimes this ridiculous self-reliance leads me to the point of believing everything possible
which this strange man would have me do; and with his imagination, who can reckon what he would
undertake?" This letter, though often quoted, is so remarkable that, as some think, it may
be a later invention. If written later, it was probably the invention of Josephine herself.[62]

              [Footnote 61: Given in Aubenas: Histoire de
              l'impératrice Joséphine, I, 293. This writer is frankly
              not an historian but an apologist.]

              [Footnote 62: Coston: Premières années de Napoléon
              Bonaparte.]

The divinity who could awaken such ardor in a Napoleon was in reality six years older than
her suitor, and Lucien proves by his exaggeration of four years that she certainly looked more
than her real age. She had no fortune, though by the subterfuges of which a clever woman could
make use she led Buonaparte to think her in affluent circumstances. She had no social station;
for her drawing-room, though frequented by men of ancient name and exalted position, was not
graced by the presence of their wives. The very house she occupied had a doubtful reputation,
having been a gift to the wife of Talma the actor from one of her lovers, and being a loan
to Mme. Beauharnais from Barras. She had thin brown hair, a complexion neither fresh nor faded,
expressive eyes, a small retroussé nose, a pretty mouth, and a voice that charmed all listeners.
She was rather undersized, but her figure was so perfectly proportioned as to give the impression
of height and suppleness. Its charms were scarcely concealed by the clothing she wore, made
as it was in the suggestive fashion of the day, with no support to the form but a belt, and
as scanty about her shoulders as it was about her shapely feet. It appears to have been her
elegance and her manners, as well as her sensuality, which overpowered Buonaparte; for he described
her as having "the calm and dignified demeanor which belongs to the old régime."

