On Aug. 10 I went to Aerschot, my native town, to get my certificate of good conduct. Then
I went to Louvain to have same signed by the commander of the place. This gentleman sent me
to St. Nicholas and thence to Hemixem, where I was rejected as too young. I then decided to
return to Brussels, passing through Aerschot. Here my aunt asked me to stay with her, saying
that she was afraid of the Germans.

I remained at Aerschot. This was Aug. 15. Suddenly, on the 19th, at 9 o'clock in the morning,
after a terrible bombardment, the Germans made their entry into Aerschot. In the first street
which they passed through they broke into the houses. They brought out six men whom I knew
very well and immediately shot them. Learning of this, I fled to Louvain, where I arrived on
Aug. 19 at 1 o'clock.

At 1:30 P.M. the Germans entered Louvain. They did not do anything to the people in the beginning.
On the following Saturday, Aug. 22, I started to return to Aerschot, as I had no money. (All
my money was still in Brussels.) The whole distance from Louvain to Aerschot I saw nothing
but German armies, always Germans. They did not say a word to me until I suddenly found myself
alone with three of the "Todeshusaren," (Death's Head Hussars,) the vanguard of their regiment.
They arrested me at the point of the revolver, demanded where I was going, and why I had run
away from Aerschot. They said that the whole of Aerschot was now on fire, because the son of
the Burgomaster had killed a General. Finally they searched me from head to foot, and I heard
them discuss the question of my fate.

Finally the non-commissioned officer told me that I could continue on my way; that they would
certainly take care of me in Aerschot, as I had been firing at Germans, and they would shoot
me when I arrived. I would have liked better to return to Louvain, but with an imperious gesture
he pointed out my road to Aerschot, and I continued. On arriving within a few hundred meters
of the town I was arrested once more.

I forgot to tell you that of all the houses which I passed between Louvain and Aerschot, there
were only a few left intact. Upon these the Germans had written in chalk in the German language:
"Please spare. Good people. Do not burn." Lying along the road I saw many dead horses putrefying.
There were also to be seen pigs, goats, and cows which had nothing to eat, and which were howling
like wild beasts. Not a soul was to be seen in the houses or in the streets. Everything was empty.

I was then arrested when a short distance from Aerschot. There were with me two or three families
from Sichem, a village between Diest and Aerschot. We remained in the fields alongside the
road, while the Prussian regiments with their artillery continued to pass by. When the artillery
had passed we were marched at the point of the bayonet to the church in Aerschot. On arrival
at the church the families of Sichem (there were at least twenty small children) were permitted
to continue on their way, and the non-commissioned officer, delighted that I could speak German,
permitted me to go to my aunt's house.

The aspect of the town was terrible. Not more than half the houses were standing. In the first
three streets which the Germans traversed there was not a single house left. There was not
a house in the town but had been pillaged. All doors had been burst open. There was nothing,
nothing left. The stench in the streets was insupportable.

I then went home, or, rather, I should say, I went to the house where my father had always
been boarding. You know, perhaps, that my mother died twelve years ago. I did not find my father,
but according to what the people told me he had been arrested, and, with five other Aerschot
men, taken to Germany--I do not know for what purpose.

I got into this house without any difficulty, because the door was smashed in. I stayed there
from Saturday, Aug. 22, up to Wednesday, the 26th, a little more comfortable. There was nothing
to eat left in the house. I lived on what a few women who remained in Aerschot could give me.
I was forced to go with the soldiers into the cellars of M.X., director of a large factory,
to hunt for wine. As recompense I got a loaf. It was not much, but at this moment it meant
very much for me.

On Wednesday, Aug. 26, we were all once more locked up in the church. It was then half-past
four in the afternoon. We could not get out, even for our necessities. On Thursday, about 9
o'clock, each of us was given a piece of bread and a glass of water. This was to last the whole
day. At 10 o'clock a Lieutenant came in, accompanied by fifteen soldiers. He placed all the
men who were left in a square, selected seventy of us and ordered us out to bury the corpses
of Germans and Belgians around the town, which had been lying there since the battle of the
19th. That was a week that these bodies had remained there, and it is no use to ask if there
was a stench. Afterward we had to clean the streets, and then it was evening.

They just got ready to shoot us. There were then ten of us. The guns had already been leveled
at us, when suddenly a German soldier ran out shouting that we had not fired on them. A few
minutes before we had heard rifle firing and the Germans said it was the Aerschot people who
were shooting, though all these had been locked up in the church and we were the only inhabitants
then in the streets, cleaning them, under surveillance of Germans. It was this German who saved
our lives.

Picture to yourself what we have suffered! It is impossible to describe. On Aug. 28 we were
brought to Louvain, always guarded by German soldiers. There were with us about twenty old
men, over eighty years of age. These were placed in two carts, tied to one another in pairs.
I and about twenty of my unfortunate compatriots had then to pull the carts all the way to
Louvain. It was hard, but that could be supported all the same.

On arriving at Louvain I saw with my own eyes a German who shot at us. The Germans who were
at the station shouted "The civilians have been shooting," and commenced a fusillade against
us. Many of us fell dead, others wounded, but I had the chance to run away.

I now took the road to Tirlemont, marching all the time among German camps. Once I was arrested.
Again they wanted to shoot me, insisting that I was a student of the University of Louvain.
The Germans pretend it was the student who had caused the population in Louvain to shoot at
them. However, my youth saved me, and I was set at liberty.

I arrived in this way, making small marches, sleeping under the stars, at a small village,
St. Pierre Rhode, six miles from Aerschot. This village had not been occupied by the Germans.
A benevolent farmer took me in, and I lived there peacefully until Wednesday, Sept. 9. On that
day the Germans arrived. They took us all with them and we had to march in front of them to
prevent the Belgians from shooting. After one hour they gave us our liberty.

The Belgians had now retaken Aerschot. I returned there as quickly as I could. Only a few houses
were still burning. It was Sept. 10. I left again in the afternoon at 4 o'clock, taking a train,
together with the railway officials, and arrived at 6 P.M. in Antwerp, where I now stay without
any resources.

All my money, the 20 francs which you presented me and my salary for five weeks, as well as
my little savings, are lying in Brussels, and I cannot get at them. I cannot work, because
there is no work to be got. I cannot cross over to England, as, to do this, it is necessary
that there should be a whole family. In these horrible circumstances, I respectfully take the
liberty of addressing you, and I hope you will aid me as best you can. I swear to you that
I shall pay you back all that you give me. I have here in Antwerp no place, no family. The
town will not give me any aid, because I have no papers to prove my identity. I threw all my
papers away for fear of the Germans. I count then on you with a firm hope to pay you back later.

Please accept, dear Sir, my respectful greetings.

---- ----.

       *       *       *       *       *

Special to The New York Times.

PITTSBURGH, Penn., Oct. 17.--The Pittsburgh civil engineer mentioned as the former partner
of the writer of the letter to THE TIMES citing acts of the Germans in Belgium, is well known
here. He was informed by THE TIMES correspondent tonight that he had been named by the writer
of the letter as likely to testify to his trustworthiness and was asked if he cared to say
anything regarding this. He replied:

"While I have no idea what my former partner has written to THE TIMES, I would credit his statements,
whatever they might be."

THE NEUTRALS.

By BEATRICE BARRY.

    Ours is the "neutral nation"
      In this war that the white men wage,
    And we on the Reservation
      Care naught how the white men rage.

    Where are the forest spaces
      That the red man was free to roam?
    And what of the woodland places
      Where the red man made his home?

    Gone! There's a paleface house
      Where the brave had his strong tepee,
    And the white man's cattle browse
      Where the wild herds used to be.

    For our power sites he reaches
      While both smoothly he speaks and well
    Of the God whose love he teaches
      And whose justice he would tell.

    O Great White Spirit who rideth
      On the wings of the Winter gale,
    Though thy children's faith abideth,
      Alas! they have lost the trail.

Fifteen Minutes on the Yser

[Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES.]

IN BELGIUM, Dec. 12, (Dispatch to The London Daily News.)--Fighting of an exceedingly desperate
character has been taking place during the latter portion of the week along the line which
extends between the Yser and the Lys. Success has attended the efforts of both Germans and
French in turn; but the losses of the enemy have been by far the greater, and the French have
in places gained a slight advantage. This is particularly noteworthy when it is considered
that the Germans on Thursday especially attacked in overwhelming force time after time. Their
movement was concentrated on a zigzag line of trenches not far from the village of Dichebusch,
which, as it happened, was not particularly strongly held by the French.

A terrific prelude to the attack was made by the German artillery, which concentrated a furious
shrapnel fire upon the French position. At this point the trenches of the Germans were only
seventy yards from the French, and for fear of hitting their own men the German guns were aimed
fairly high, so that the Frenchmen in the rear trenches suffered most heavily. Those in the
front trench huddled against its sides while the storm of shot and shell raged over them. There
was nothing else for them to do at the moment, and, as it proved, it was extremely fortunate
for the Allies that the German guns spared these men.

The French seventy-fives raked the German batteries in answer, and things were going hot and
strong when the German infantrymen suddenly became active. From their trenches seventy yards
away a shower of hand grenades came bowling over toward the first French trench. Many of them
fell short, and few did any damage; but hardly had this second plague come to an end when out
from the trenches climbed a swarm of Germans rushing furiously toward the Frenchmen. At last
the men in that first trench had something to do. They jumped to their loopholes and blazed
magazine fire into this raging, tearing attack. Every bullet seemed to find its mark; it could
hardly have done otherwise at such a range.

The advance line wavered, stumbled over prostrate parts of itself, and then swept onward again.
There was no time for the Frenchmen to reload their rifles; besides they did not want to do
so. They simply climbed out of the trenches and met the Germans with the bayonet. The German
guns were still roaring to prevent the arrival of French reinforcements; but the reinforcements
came quickly, suffering heavily in coming.

The few Frenchmen still struggled sturdily with their enemies, who outnumbered them three to
one, and eventually the Germans who survived the attack turned and bolted back to their trenches,
with the Frenchmen, seeing red, at their heels.

It was as furious a fifteen minutes as could be conceived. The No Man's Land between the trenches
was heaped with men tangled and twisted in death or writhing with wounds which unmercifully
let them live. Neither side dared venture across to aid these sufferers, so they were left
in their agony.

But this one desperate charge did not end the day's work. The French mortars thumped away incessantly,
and showers of hand grenades were exchanged. One more attack was made by the Germans in daylight,
with a like result. The ground was piled high in places with bodies. Then, when night had fallen,
yet another attack was made. One mighty mass of Germans came charging over the narrow space.
By sheer weight of numbers they overwhelmed the French and took the trench for which they had
paid such a ghastly price. They held it only for a few hours. By converging on it from three
points at once the French retook it soon after midnight.

On Friday morning a wonderful French bayonet charge at length drove out the Germans, who had
fought most gallantly and stubbornly throughout the day and during the night, and the terrible
morning which followed. The Red Cross workers were busy without ceasing; but many men had bled
to death, lacking surgical aid, in that strip of ground between the trenches.

This is the kind of warfare which is going to be waged in this seemingly inevitable battle
between the two rivers. It may last as long as the battle of the Yser or the Aisne, and we
may wait day after day again for the verdict. If the Allies can press forward just three or
four miles before the year is out they will have done extraordinarily well. Hereabout the German
artillery is in greater strength than anywhere else along the whole line of battle.

Progress will undoubtedly be slow because the Germans have taken such tremendous pains to pave
(in a literal sense) with concrete trenches the way of retreat. British airmen report line
upon line of intrenchments where the Germans have defensively furrowed the land behind them
for miles. As the Allies advance--and they indubitably will advance--these trenches will in
turn be stubbornly defended. It is going to be, I am afraid, a long, weary, and bloody business.
Those in England who sometimes complain at the absence of decisive victories may have to wait
a long time yet before it can be said that the Germans are in full retreat; for full retreat
is the very thing they have guarded against most carefully.

In the semi-circle of slaughter around Ypres the trenches of the Allies and the Germans are
at nearly all points extraordinarily close together. This means an immense strain on the men.
They remain for hours together in cramped, unnatural positions, knowing from experience that
an unwise move will bring a bullet from crack marksmen told off to snipe them.

This close proximity of the rival forces confounds all the theories of the military writers
of the past. According to the army textbooks this war is being conducted in a grossly unprofessional
manner. For bringing his men so close to the enemy many a young company commander has received
a severe dressing down on manoeuvres.

Of course under such circumstances abuse and badinage is continually being bandied across the
intervening spaces between the trenches, and the quick-witted Frenchmen generally get the better
of it in the war of words.

One of them, who came back from the Ypres neighborhood a few days ago, told me a delightful
story of a practical joke played upon the Germans, who were entrenched only about thirty or
forty yards away from his platoon. One bright spirit was lecturing the enemy and making dialectical
rings round them.

"Hola, bosches," he cried, "your Kaiser is very brave, isn't he? He wears the Iron Cross, but
he doesn't come into your trenches. Tomorrow M. Poincaré, our President, will visit us. He
does not wear an Iron Cross, but he isn't afraid."

On the morrow the Germans saw a top hat come bobbing and bowing along the French trench and
heard loud cries of "Vive le President!" Time after time they riddled that top hat with bullets,
and still it went bobbing along until the French took it off the spade handle, threw it into
the air and howled in derision.

Seeing Nieuport Under Shell Fire

[Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES.]

FURNES, Dec. 21, (Dispatch to The London Daily News.)--For several days I have been in possession
of an authorization from the French commandant permitting me to penetrate to Nieuport. This
town has been under bombardment by the Germans since Oct. 20. There were days, however, when
no shells fell in the town and a walk in the streets presented no danger, though this was by
no means the case last week, when, after a period of calm, an event of considerable importance
occurred. The Allies took up the offensive in an effort to drive the Germans from the coast
and recapture Ostend and Zeebrugge.

Along the whole front from the Yser to the sea there were important movements of troops. These
I am not at liberty to describe, but they have for the most part only a small significance
in relation to the events described in this letter. For eight days the struggle has been very
severe on the Yser, and night and day hundreds of guns have been sending shells across the
space dividing the two armies. Since the end of October the Germans had been established at
St. Georges and Lombartzyde, close to Nieuport, and their trenches between Nieuport and Nieuport-les-Bains
were separated from those of the French and Belgians only by a canal twenty yards wide running
from Furnes through Nieuport to the sea.

I left Furnes on a French motor truck carrying bread and meat to the troops at Nieuport. For
about three miles the truck followed the canal, passing the village of Wulpen, and then came
to a stop. We had arrived near the bridge over which we must pass to reach Nieuport. As we
slowly approached the bridge I asked the chauffeur: "What is delaying us?" "It is a little
too warm for the moment," he replied.

When a soldier admits that things are warm it is certain that there is serious fighting afoot.
To the right and left over the fields we could see the inundations. On the roads our soldiers
were moving and the guns of the Allies were filling the air with thunder. In the intervals
one could hear the spitting of quick-firers and the lesser chorus of rifle fire. Just ahead
on a little bridge were a few soldiers of the engineer corps busily at work under the direction
of a Lieutenant.

Suddenly I saw them fall flat on the ground. At the same moment a shell whistled over their
heads and buried itself in the canal bank only forty yards from us.

"Shelter your machine behind the house," shouted the Lieutenant, and the chauffeur did not
want a second telling. He backed the truck a few yards to place it against a house opposite
the bridge at the corner of the road from Ramscapelle.

I left the truck and stood with some soldiers close against the wall. In five minutes fifteen
shells fell within a radius of 100 yards of the bridge, but not one struck the bridge itself.
We could hear them come shrieking toward us, and the only comment of the soldiers each time
was "Here comes another."

We passed over the bridge and advanced along the canal bank in the direction of the Germans.
As we approached the trenches near the Dixmude railway bridge we were able to survey the plain
of St. Georges, which is now completely under water. For a moment the firing between the trenches
had ceased, and we were able to take a leisurely view of the scene from the height of the bridge
over an area half a mile square. The water is three feet deep, and in the centre of the lake
stands a farmhouse surrounded by trees. French and Belgian soldiers had crossed the water,
advancing under the protection of artillery fire, and had captured the houses standing on the
far side.

Returning to our motor, we quickly reached Nieuport. The aspect of the place was strange. The
houses, as in all ancient fortified towns, press closely one against another. The streets,
however, are wide and regular. They were as empty as the streets of a dead city. In the roofs
of the houses were large holes. Windows and doors had been destroyed, and blinds and curtains
were floating out on the wind.

To my great surprise I learned that four or five houses were still occupied. About twenty inhabitants,
I was told, were still living in their cellars after the two months' bombardment. The soldiers
did what they could to feed these people, who said that rather than leave their homes they
would perish in the ruins. The rest of the inhabitants, about 4,000, had fled, taking with
them only what they could carry in their hands. In every house one could see broken furniture
covered with dust. In many of them gaping holes had been torn by shells, while some of the
front walls had been carried clean away. Bedsteads and wardrobes were seen standing awry on
the upper floors, ready to fall into the street. Of other houses, reduced, one may say, to
powder, only heaps of rubbish remain, in which one can distinguish among pieces of tiles and
bricks and plaster chests of drawers, pianos, sideboards, sewing machines, and so forth, broken
and mixed with what is left of household linen and crockery. Family portraits, as if in mockery,
remain hanging in places and contemplate the scene of ruin. The contents of the shops have
been scattered over the floors, and whatever has not been destroyed by shells, shrapnel, and
bombs, has been left to rot under the rain which comes through the roofs and ceilings. All
sorts of merchandise was lying about in confusion on the pavements.

The church, one of the oldest Gothic monuments in the country, has been completely demolished.
The belfry tower is torn open, and one broken bell is lying on the ground at the edge of a
pit some thirty feet in width, made by the explosion of an enormous German shell. A large wooden
crucifix by the side of the church has been torn from the ground and lies in a ditch.

There is a layer three feet deep of pieces of wood covering the floor of the church. This was
once the roof and furniture of the old Gothic temple.

The cemetery, furrowed by shells, contains fresh graves covered with flowers. These are graves
of officers and soldiers. On one of them are a soldier's coat and cap; on another a small Belgian
flag. The second grave was dug only this morning, the young soldier, I was told by a Sergeant,
having arrived at 8 o'clock and having been killed by a German shell at 10.

Only one structure in Nieuport remained intact, the Templars' Tower, a very solid piece of
masonry, five centuries old.

