PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 158

MAY 5, 1920

CHARIVARIA.

We understand that Lord FISHER, who is reported to have taken a week off to say what he thought
about the Budget, has asked for an extension of time.

       * * *

Germany has decided to abolish gradually all titles of nobility. They will disappear Von by Von.

       * * *

Six hundred Irish emigrants left for New York last Wednesday on board the Celtic. All, we understand,
were advised before leaving that the price of a man's votes, after the first five or six, isn't
what it was in former Presidential elections.

       * * *

"I hope I will not come back until the basis of a real peace with Russia is secured," said
Mr. SNOWDEN on the eve of his departure. There are other people who don't much mind what cause
detains him.

       * * *

An earthquake is reported in California, and a volume of poems by the POET LAUREATE is announced.
What a breathless week!

       * * *

"What is wanted in our prisons," says a well-known preacher, "is more humanity; in the Irish
prisons in particular the right kind of humanity." Even in the rare cases where we get hold
of it we don't seem able to keep it.

       * * *

The Liverpool and District Federation of Brotherhoods and Sisterhoods, protesting against Sunday
cricket, declare their anxiety to maintain in every way the traditional sacredness of the English
Sabbath. With roast beef at its present price this seems scarcely possible.

       * * *

A "uniform evening dress for women" was advocated at a discussion on "Fashions" by members
of the Lyceum Club. Smart Society, it is observed, by a gradual process of elimination is working
down to something of the kind.

       * * *

"Increased party bitterness," says a Berlin correspondent, "is becoming a feature of German
life." A sharp cleavage of opinion is detected between the party that refuses to comply with
the terms of the Peace Treaty and the section that merely intends to evade them.

       * * *

It appears that a man has been fined five pounds for using bad language about Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL.
Latest reports from the district are to the effect that his remarks were rather good value
for the money.

       * * *

A weekly paper advocates the sterilizing of all foodstuffs. This is a decided advance on the
old custom of sifting soup through a set of whiskers.

       * * *

Germany, says Mr. JAMES DOUGLAS, lost the War. It is said that even the ex-Kaiser now admits
that everything seems to point that way.

       * * *

A Madras tiger cub, we are informed, has been born at Pontypridd. We can only suppose that
the animal did not know it was Pontypridd.

       * * *

Futurist painters, says a contemporary, are becoming scarce in America. The wave of crime that
followed the War seems to be falling off.

       * * *

The Department Committee of the Falkland Islands suggest that whales should be marked by a
small projectile. This is much better than screwing the monster into a vice and carving its
name and address on it with a chisel.

       * * *

A Beachy Head correspondent writes to a daily paper to say that he has seen a peculiarly bright
light in the sky. Quite a number of people are asking, Can it be the sun?

       * * *

A morning paper reports that the Government is now offering for sale all machinery, fixtures
and fittings installed in a certain large aerodrome in Hampshire. It is rumoured that they
will be willing to buy them back from the purchasers at an enhanced price in order to equip
a new aerodrome in the same locality.

       * * *

According to a witness at Willesden Police Court a carter charged with insulting behaviour
swore for twenty minutes without repeating himself. We understand that the Bargees' Union take
a very serious view of the matter.

       * * *

"The cost of cremation is now exceptionally low," announces a Sunday paper. Inexpensive luxuries
are so rare in these days that one is tempted to give it a trial.

       * * *

Replying to Sir K. FRASER, Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN stated that he was not prepared to levy an
equalizing tax on total abstainers. The belief that they are already sufficiently punished
is widely held.

       * * *

"Man, naturally funny, desires to be trained for stage funny-man" (Times Advertisement). The
initial handicap is bound to tell against him. He should try the House of Commons.

       * * *

Twenty-one pigs have died at Woking as the result of eating phosphorus. The owner was apparently
unaware that it has taken years to accustom the American pig to a phosphorus diet.

       * * *

Hythe Council is offering sixpence a dozen for dead wasps. Hunters may bring their captures
in on the hoof but must slaughter them before they can touch the money.

       * * *

A South Wales miner charged with trapping birds was found to be wearing three coats. As this
might have been due to an oversight on the part of his valet it was not included in the charge.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Our Tireless Terpsichoreans.

     "Miss ----'s dance will take place on the 22nd and terminate on the
     29th for this season."--Advt. in Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "That fine sporting neighbourhood, Epsom, is represented by a big
     cheque from the town cub."--Evening Paper.

Good dog!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HEALING WATERS OF SPA.

     [It is feared that the Treaty with the Turk will not be signed in time
     for him to receive an invitation to join the Allies and their late
     enemies, towards the end of May, at the Conference to be held at Spa,
     where it is proposed to discuss a common scheme for the regeneration
     of the world.]

  Sweet after hopes deferred that make
    The stomach feel so queer,
  To think the Peace for which we ache
    May very soon be here;
  That, though but scarce two years have passed
    Since we contrived to win it,
  The War, if things go on so fast,
    May end at any minute.

  Yet must the pace be hotter still
    With less of "hum!" and "ha!"
  If we would have our pleasure's fill
    And meet the Turk at Spa;
  How nice if he could only come,
    Fresh from Armenian slaughter,
  And join our Mixed Symposium
    Over a mineral water!

  His ripe experience would show
    Just how (by Allah's grace)
  To make this world of sin and woe
    Into a better place;
  And, though we failed to cure at sight
    All ills that want allaying,
  At least (between the Acts) we might
    Together go a-Maying.

  O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

LE MONDE OÙ L'ON TRAVAILLE.

There had been a long silence between us. We sat lunching comfortably at the Ritz, and the
Spring air came pleasantly in at the open window beside us. I watched the people passing by
and commented on some of them to Tony, but he seemed completely wrapped in meditation.

Really it was a little aggravating. Spring always thrills me to the tips of my fingers; I had
put on my very nicest clothes; we were eating the very last word in lunches, and there was
a glorious atmosphere of holiday in the air; but it was all lost on Tony.

Suddenly he roused himself. "It's a queer thing," he began à propos of nothing, abstractedly
toying with his pêche Melba and lapsing into thoughtful silence again.

"Shouldn't be surprised," I retorted sharply.

Then I looked across at him and my heart smote me. He is extraordinarily good to look upon--fair
crinkled hair, Saxon colouring and blue eyes that can warm up so delightfully at moments.

"What is queer, Tony?" I went on more gently, conscious that in spite of his abstraction his
gaze was wandering appreciatively in my direction, so that I felt my new blouse was not entirely
wasted after all.

"Well, the fact is," he roused himself to start, "I've been making some very interestin' experiments."

"Oh!" I said, a trifle disappointed.

"Yes, very interestin' indeed. You know, of course, that I've only been demobbed about six
months, so there's no ghastly hurry or anythin', but I rather feel that I ought to begin to
think of doin' somethin'--some business, profession sort of affair, I mean. Havin' made up
my mind more or less, I thought I'd come up to town yesterday and have a talk with one or two
of the fellows I know who have got jobs--get a few tips and so on."

"That sounds an awfully good idea," I encouraged him.

"Well, it was rather," he agreed modestly, "but on my life, Betty, you'd never believe----Well,
I'll tell you.

"I dropped in first of all on Dixon. Not a bad chap at all, one of those--you know--solicitors.
Partner in an A1 firm an' all that. They're fairly rakin' in money at present with this boom
in Divorce Court stunts.

"Anyway we began talkin' about old times and so on, as I hadn't seen him for ages. We got laughin'
over some of his funny stories about their stuff--no names or anythin' like that, of course--and
then bit by bit I started tellin' him what was really at the back of my mind about takin' up
the work. I don't think he grasped it quite at first, but when he did he just leant back in
his chair and looked at me with a kind of pityin' expression. 'My dear old boy,' he said, 'take
it from a friend, one who has been through it--don't! It's a dog's life; years of training;
work all day and night. No peace. Responsibility all the time. You know, dear old fellow, what
you want is a soft job. Why don't you start stock-brokin' or somethin'?'

"Well, of course that was a bit of a set-back; still I thought, 'Are we down-hearted?' So I
trotted on round to old Simkins--remember that stockbroker chap we ran into at the Gaiety the
other evenin'? He's a decent sort of fellow; clever an' all that too--but not by way of overworkin'
himself.

"Well, I got to his office and asked him out to lunch at the Club, but he wouldn't hear of
it. 'My dear old man,' he said, 'you're comin' right along with me to the Carlton, and we're
goin' to have the best lunch they can turn out. I tell you I've struck lucky this morning;
absolutely had a haul!'

"Well, I thought that sounded pretty cheery, so we toddled off, and I must say they did us
jolly well. It seemed just the chance to get him to talk in a pally sort of way, so I simply
put it to him straight and told him what I was thinkin' of doin'. He listened to me a bit doubtfully
for a few minutes and then leaned across the table and put his hand on my arm, interruptin'
me. 'Don't you do it, my son,' he said. 'As a pal I warn you. The work! the worry! the carking
anxiety! Take my word for it the life of a stockbroker isn't fit for a dog.'

"Seemed funny, didn't it? Only he was so insistent that I began to get the hump about it myself
too and after a little while I managed to leave him and rolled off to get cheered up by Bird.
Teddy Bird's one of the best of fellows--always merry an' bright. They manufacture ladies'
jumpers or somethin' of the sort; they were on Army clothin' durin' the War; pots of money,
of course; not doin' too badly now either.

"I just blew in an' told him to come on the binge or somethin' to cheer me up. He wanted to
know what I had got the hump about, so I told him about these other two chaps, and really I
was beginnin' to think what a let-off I had had. Then a bright idea flashed into my mind. Why
shouldn't I manufacture somethin'? It seemed such a toppin' good scheme that I asked him straight
out what he thought about it.

"'My poor innocent lad,' he said, 'don't you yet realise the sort of existence fellows like
me have to lead? Labour troubles, money troubles, taxation on profits. Why, good heavens, it's
little better than a dog's life!'

"I kind of felt crumpled and left him."

Tony looked across at me gloomily.

There was a heavy silence. I couldn't think of anything comforting to say. He paid the bill
and we started threading our way towards Piccadilly.

"But, Tony," I finally suggested rather desperately, "you said just now there isn't such a
ghastly hurry. Why don't you just stay round and amuse yourself for a bit till something crops up?"

He turned and gazed at me reproachfully.

"My dear Betty," he said, "I thought you understood me better than that. For a fellow of real
ambition and keenness for gettin' on, it's absolutely feedin', an existence like this, just
messin' about. It's the limit. Why, it's nothin' better than a dog's----"

I glanced at him quickly and he flushed crimson to the ears.

"What I mean to say--oh, hang it!" he stuttered, waving his cane. "Hi, taxi! That's right.
Hop in, Betty. We've just about time to get a look in at the Palladium. You know one wants
cheerin' up these days. Thinkin' seriously about things is so beastly worryin'."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ALL FOR JANE.

(With the British Army in France.)

How Jane contrived to inspire affection and bitter rivalry in the hearts of Sergeant Bulter
and Chippo Munks is hard to imagine. She was not beautiful or agreeable or even intelligent.
And she was certainly fickle and greedy. If Sergeant Bulter persuaded her to accompany him
for a walk she was quite likely to return with Chippo; and if Chippo invited her to dine the
end of the dinner was usually the signal for her to leave in search of the further hospitality
of Sergeant Bulter.

Nevertheless both soldiers wooed her with an intensity that nearly brought them into deadly
conflict. The climax was precipitated by an announcement in Battalion Orders that ran:--

"All ownerless dogs straying about the Camp will be secured by the Camp police for destruction.
Owners of dogs will therefore ensure that their dogs are provided with collars showing names
of owners, and such dogs are not permitted to stray about the lines unattended."

On reading this Chippo laboriously inscribed an old identity disc--

JANE MUNKS, "B" COY.,

and sought out Jane in her usual corner near the cook-house. He was threading the disc with
a piece of string when Sergeant Bulter appeared.

"What are you doin' to that dawg?" demanded the Sergeant.

"Fittin' 'er with a necklace," replied Chippo.

"Well, you can keep it to hang yourself with," said Bulter triumphantly; "she's already provided."

Chippo perceived, what he had previously overlooked, that Jane's neck was encircled with a
collar marked--

JANE BULTER, SERGEANTS' MESS.

A sick feeling of disappointment came over him, but he dissembled.

"I reckernize the family likeness, Sergeant," he remarked and walked away, whilst Jane, with
callous disregard for his sufferings, meditated whether to dine with the Ration Corporal or
the Sergeant Cook, or both.

Chippo walked gloomily in the direction of the town. As he approached the place the blaring
of cornets and sounds of hilarity reminded him that Quelquepart was holding its annual foire.
Merry-go-rounds and swing-boats were not in harmony with Chippo's mood, and the performance
at the gaudily-painted Guignol struck him as particularly dreary, but the sight of Ferdinand
Delauney's Grande Loterie, with its huge red wheel and tempting array of prizes, roused him
to animation. Ferdinand was attracting investors by methods of persuasion which Chippo, as
an acknowledged "Crown-and-anchor" expert, recognised as masterly.

"Reckon I'll try a franc's-worth of Ferdy's prize bonds," he said. "But I expect it'll just
be my luck to win a dog-collar or a muzzle."

In due course the wheel began to revolve, and it had scarcely stopped before Ferdinand jumped
from the platform and embraced Chippo with emotion.

"Mon ami," he said, "mes félicitations! Vous avez gagné le premier prix!"

Opening a crate he extracted an athletic young cockerel, which he thrust under Chippo's arm,
and the latter walked away with a prize for which he had not the slightest use.

Presently the cockerel began to struggle, and Chippo, after considering all methods of transport,
took the string intended for Jane from his pocket, attached it to the rooster's leg and marched
it before him. He had not proceeded far before he was confronted by the scandalised Sergeant
Bulter, with Jane trailing miserably at his heels.

"Hi!" shouted the Sergeant, "what do you mean parading the town like a blamed poultry show?"

"A chap must 'ave a bit o' company when he goes out. I ain't got no dawg now," replied Chippo
pathetically.

"Dawgs is one thing," said the Sergeant, "and a mangy wry-necked rooster wot's probably missing
from some-one's back-yard is another. It ain't regimental."

"It's as regimental as a yellow flap-eared mongrel wot's bin enticed away from its rightful
owner," said the insubordinate Chippo. "There ain't nothink in King's Regs. against it."

"P'r'aps there ain't," said Bulter; "but it ain't soldierlike."

"One minit, Sergeant. Wot's our regimental mascot? It's a goat. An' what's the Dampshires'?
A chattering monkey. If monkeys an' goats is soldierlike so's poultry."

The Sergeant was silenced, and Chippo and his rooster proceeded on their way, giving a finished
exhibition of the goose-step.

Thereafter Chippo and his pet ostentatiously paraded the lines, selecting the occasions when
the Sergeant was starting out for a constitutional. Though Bulter's feelings were sorely outraged
he preserved an air of icy aloofness, which Jane imitated as long as she was on the lead. This
apparent indifference should have been a warning to the cockerel, but he did not know Jane's
peculiar temperament. The full revelation came one morning when they met in the lines unattended
by their respective masters. The rooster quickly fell a victim to feminine duplicity, and Jane
carried the mangled bundle of claws and feathers and dropped it at Chippo's feet.

Chippo took the remains to Sergeant Bulter.

"See what your dawg's done," he said with indignation.

"An' a good job too," answered Bulter.

"You 'ear that?" appealed Chippo to another N.C.O. who was standing by. "He was allus jealous
of me 'avin' a pet, so 'e deliberately set 'is dawg on it, an' now 'e's gloatin'."

"See 'ere, my lad," spluttered Bulter, "you'll be for orderly-room to-morrow if you ain't careful."

"Very well, Sergeant," said Chippo meekly; "it'll give me a chawnce to make my complaint to
the orficer."

"'Ow do you mean?"

"Why, against you for flat disobedience of Battalion horders. If you 'adn't let your dawg run
about the lines unattended this wouldn't 'ave 'appened."

The Sergeant's face bore the expression of a quack compelled to swallow his own pills. Chippo
continued relentlessly and untruthfully--

"I 'ear she's bit the Colonel's groom an' pinched the joint from the Warrant Orficers' Mess.
She never oughtn't to be at large, she didn't."

Rarely in his career had Bulter shown such visible discomfiture.

"Of course," added Chippo casually, "if Jane was my dawg I'd 'ave no grounds for complaint."

When your strong man is compelled to submit to the inevitable he usually does it ungracefully.
Bulter took the collar from Jane's neck and pushed her over with his foot.

"Take the brute," he said, "an' if ever I see 'er round this Mess again I'll shoot 'er!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

