The Delights of Wisdom

Pertaining To

Conjugial Love

To Which is Added

The Pleasures of Insanity

Pertaining To

Scortatory Love

By

Emanuel Swedenborg

A Swede

Being a translation of his work

"Delitiæ Sapientiæ de Amore Conjugiali; post quas sequuntur Voluptates Insaniæ de Amore Scortatorio"
(Amstelodami 1768)

1892

Published A.D. 1850

PRELIMINARY RELATIONS RESPECTING THE JOYS OF HEAVEN AND NUPTIALS THERE.

1. "I am aware that many who read the following pages and the Memorable Relations annexed to
the chapters, will believe that they are fictions of the imagination; but I solemnly declare
they are not fictions, but were truly done and seen; and that I saw them, not in any state
of the mind asleep, but in a state of perfect wakefulness: for it has pleased the Lord to manifest
himself to me, and to send me to teach the things relating to the New Church, which is meant
by the New Jerusalem in the Revelation: for which purpose he has opened the interiors of my
mind and spirit; by virtue of which privilege it has been granted me to be in the spiritual
world with angels, and at the same time in the natural world with men, and this now (1768)
for twenty-five years."

2. On a certain time there appeared to me an angel flying beneath the eastern heaven, with
a trumpet in his hand, which he held to his mouth, and sounded towards the north, the west,
and the south. He was clothed in a robe, which waved behind him as he flew along, and was girt
about the waist with a band that shone like fire and glittered with carbuncles, and sapphires:
he flew with his face downwards, and alighted gently on the ground, near where I was standing.
As soon as he touched the ground with his feet, he stood erect, and walked to and fro: and
on seeing me he directed his steps towards me. I was in the spirit, and was standing in that
state on a little eminence in the southern quarter of the spiritual world. When he came near,
I addressed him and asked him his errand, telling him that I had heard the sound of his trumpet,
and had observed his descent through the air. He replied, "My commission is to call together
such of the inhabitants of this part of the spiritual world, as have come hither from the various
kingdoms of Christendom, and have been most distinguished for their learning, their ingenuity,
and their wisdom, to assemble on this little eminence where you are now standing, and to declare
their real sentiments, as to what they had thought, understood, and inwardly perceived, while
in the natural world, respecting Heavenly Joy and Eternal Happiness. The occasion of my commission
is this: several who have lately come from the natural world, and have been admitted into our
heavenly society, which is in the east, have informed us, that there is not a single person
throughout the whole Christian world that is acquainted with the true nature of heavenly joy
and eternal happiness; consequently that not a single person is acquainted with the nature
of heaven. This information greatly surprised my brethren and companions; and they said to
me, 'Go down, call together and assemble those who are most eminent for wisdom in the world
of spirits, (where all men are first collected after their departure out of the natural world,)
so that we may know of a certainty, from the testimony of many, whether it be true that such
thick darkness, or dense ignorance, respecting a future life, prevails among Christians.'"
The angel then said to me, "Wait awhile, and you will see several companies of the wise ones
flocking together to this place, and the Lord will prepare them a house of assembly." I waited,
and lo! in the space of half an hour, I saw two companies from the north, two from the west,
and two from the south; and as they came near, they were introduced by the angel that blew
the trumpet into the house of assembly prepared for them, where they took their places in the
order of the quarters from which they came. There were six groups or companies, and a seventh
from the east, which, from its superior light, was not visible to the rest. When they were
all assembled, the angel explained to them the reason of their meeting, and desired that each
company in order would declare their sentiments respecting Heavenly Joy and Eternal Happiness.
Then each company formed themselves into a ring, with their faces turned one towards another,
that they might recall the ideas they had entertained upon the subject in the natural world,
and after examination and deliberation might declare their sentiments.

3. After some deliberation, the First Company, which was from the north, declared their opinion,
that heavenly joy and eternal happiness constitute the very life of heaven; so much so that
whoever enters heaven, enters, in regard to his life, into its festivities, just as a person
admitted to a marriage enters into all the festivities of a marriage. "Is not heaven," they
argued, "before our eyes in a particular place above us? and is there not there and nowhere
else a constant succession of satisfactions and pleasures? When a man therefore is admitted
into heaven, he is also admitted into the full enjoyment of all these satisfactions and pleasures,
both as to mental perception and bodily sensation. Of course heavenly happiness, which is also
eternal happiness, consists solely in admission into heaven, and that depends purely on the
divine mercy and favor." They having concluded, the Second Company from the north, according
to the measure of the wisdom with which they were endowed, next declared their sentiments as
follows: "Heavenly joy and eternal happiness consist solely in the enjoyment of the company
of angels, and in holding sweet communications with them, so that the countenance is kept continually
expanded with joy; while the smiles of mirth and pleasure, arising from cheerful and entertaining
conversation, continually enliven the faces of the company. What else can constitute heavenly
joys, but the variations of such pleasures to eternity?" The Third Company, which was the first
of the wise ones from the western quarter, next declared their sentiments according to the
ideas which flowed from their affections: "In what else," said they, "do heavenly joy and eternal
happiness consist but in feasting with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; at whose tables there will
be an abundance of rich and delicate food, with the finest and most generous wines, which will
be succeeded by sports and dances of virgins and young men, to the tunes of various musical
instruments, enlivened by the most melodious singing of sweet songs; the evening to conclude
with dramatic exhibitions, and this again to be followed by feasting, and so on to eternity?"
When they had ended, the Fourth Company, which was the second from the western quarter, declared
their sentiments to the following purpose: "We have entertained," said they, "many ideas respecting
heavenly joy and eternal happiness; and we have examined a variety of joys, and compared them
one with another, and have at length come to the conclusion, that heavenly joys are paradisiacal
joys: for what is heaven but a paradise extended from the east to the west, and from the south
to the north, wherein are trees laden with fruit, and all kinds of beautiful flowers, and in
the midst the magnificent tree of life, around which the blessed will take their seats, and
feed on fruits most delicious to the taste, being adorned with garlands of the sweetest smelling
flowers? In this paradise there will be a perpetual spring; so that the fruits and flowers
will be renewed every day with an infinite variety, and by their continual growth and freshness,
added to the vernal temperature of the atmosphere, the souls of the blessed will be daily fitted
to receive and taste new joys, till they shall be restored to the flower of their age, and
finally to their primitive state, in which Adam and his wife were created, and thus recover
their paradise, which has been transplanted from earth to heaven." The Fifth Company, which
was the first of the ingenious spirits from the southern quarter, next delivered their opinion:
"Heavenly joys and eternal happiness," said they, "consist solely in exalted power and dignity,
and in abundance of wealth, joined with more than princely magnificence and splendor. That
the joys of heaven, and their continual fruition, which is eternal happiness, consist in these
things, is plain to us from the examples of such persons as enjoyed them in the former world;
and also from this circumstance, that the blessed in heaven are to reign with the Lord, and
to become kings and princes; for they are the sons of him who is King of kings and Lord of
lords, and they are to sit on thrones and be ministered to by angels. Moreover, the magnificence
of heaven is plainly made known to us by the description given of the New Jerusalem, wherein
is represented the glory of heaven; that it is to have gates, each of which shall consist of
a single pearl, and streets of pure gold, and a wall with foundations of precious stones; consequently,
every one that is received into heaven will have a palace of his own, glittering with gold
and other costly materials, and will enjoy dignity and dominion, each according to his quality
and station: and since we find by experience, that the joys and happiness arising from such
things are natural, and as it were, innate in us, and since the promises of God cannot fail,
we therefore conclude that the most happy state of heavenly life can be derived from no other
source than this." After this, the Sixth Company, which was the second from the southern quarter,
with a loud voice spoke as follows: "The joy of heaven and its eternal happiness consist solely
in the perpetual glorification of God, in a never-ceasing festival of praise and thanksgiving,
and in the blessedness of divine worship, heightened with singing and melody, whereby the heart
is kept in a constant state of elevation towards God, under a full persuasion that he accepts
such prayers and praises, on account of the divine bounty in imparting blessedness." Some of
the company added further, that this glorification would be attended with magnificent illuminations,
with most fragrant incense, and with stately processions, preceded by the chief priest with
a grand trumpet, who would be followed by primates and officers of various orders, by men carrying
palms, and by women with golden images in their hand.

4. The Seventh Company, which, from its superior light, was invisible to the rest, came from
the east of heaven, and consisted of angels of the same society as the angel that had sounded
the trumpet. Then those angels said to the one that had the trumpet, "You know that every one
that has desired heaven, and has formed any definite conception in his mind respecting its
joys, is introduced after death into those particular joys which he had imagined; and after
he experiences that such joys are only the offspring of the vain delusions of his own fancy,
he is led out of his error, and instructed in the truth. This is the case with most of those
in the world of spirits, who in their former life have thought about heaven, and from their
notions of its joys have desired to possess them." On hearing this, the angel that had the
trumpet said to the six companies of the assembled wise ones, "Follow me; and I will introduce
you into your respective joys, and thereby into heaven."

5. When the angel had thus spoken, he went before them; and he was first attended by the company
who were of opinion that the joys of heaven consisted solely in pleasant associations and entertaining
conversation. These the angel introduced to an assembly of spirits in the northern quarter,
who, during their abode in the former world, had entertained the same ideas of the joys of
heaven. There was in the place a large and spacious house, wherein all these spirits were assembled.
In the house there were more than fifty different apartments, allotted to different kinds and
subjects of conversation: in some of these apartments they conversed about such matters as
they had seen or heard in the public places of resort and the streets of the city; in others
the conversation turned upon the various charms of the fair sex, with a mixture of wit and
humor, producing cheerful smiles on the countenances of all present; in others they talked
about the news relating to courts, to public ministers, and state policy, and to various matters
which had transpired from privy councils, interspersing many conjectures and reasonings of
their own respecting the issues of such councils; in others again they conversed about trade
and merchandise; in others upon subjects of literature; in others upon points of civil prudence
and morals; and in others about affairs relating to the Church, its sects, &c. Permission was
granted me to enter and look about the house; and I saw people running from one apartment to
another, seeking such company as was most suited to their own tempers and inclinations; and
in the different parties I could distinguish three kinds of persons; some as it were panting
to converse, some eager to ask questions, and others greedily devouring what was said. The
house had four doors, one towards each quarter; and I observed several leaving their respective
companies with a great desire to get out of the house. I followed some of them to the east
door, where I saw several sitting with great marks of dejection on their faces; and on my inquiring
into the cause of their trouble, they replied, "The doors of this house are kept shut against
all persons who wish to go out; and this is the third day since we entered, to be entertained
according to our desire with company and conversation; and now we are grown so weary with continual
discoursing, that we can scarcely bear to hear the sound of a human voice; wherefore, from
mere irksomeness, we have betaken ourselves to this door; but on our knocking to have it opened,
we were told, that the doors of this house are never opened to let any persons out, but only
to let them in, and that we must stay here and enjoy the delights of heaven; from which information
we conclude, that we are to remain here to eternity; and this is the cause of our sorrow and
lowness of spirits; now too we begin to feel an oppression in the breast, and to be overwhelmed
with anxiety." The angel then addressing them said: "These things in which you imagined the
true joys of heaven to consist, prove, you find, the destruction of all happiness; since they
do not of themselves constitute true heavenly joys, but only contribute thereto." "In what
then," said they to the angel, "does heavenly joy consist?" The angel replied briefly, "In
the delight of doing something that is useful to ourselves and others; which delight derives
its essence from love and its existence from wisdom. The delight of being useful, originating
in love, and operating by wisdom, is the very soul and life of all heavenly joys. In the heavens
there are frequent occasions of cheerful intercourse and conversation, whereby the minds (mentes)
of the angels are exhilarated, their minds (animi) entertained, their bosoms delighted, and
their bodies refreshed; but such occasions do not occur, till they have fulfilled their appointed
uses in the discharge of their respective business and duties. It is this fulfilling of uses
that gives soul and life to all their delights and entertainments; and if this soul and life
be taken away, the contributory joys gradually cease, first exciting indifference, then disgust,
and lastly sorrow and anxiety." As the angel ended, the door was thrown open, and those who
were sitting near it burst out in haste, and went home to their respective labors and employments,
and so found relief and refreshment to their spirits.

6. After this the angel addressed those who fancied the joys of heaven and eternal happiness
consisted of partaking of feasts with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, succeeded by sports and public
exhibitions, and these by other feasts, and so on to eternity. He said, "Follow me; and I will
introduce you into the possession of your enjoyments:" and immediately he led them through
a grove into a plain floored with planks, on which were set tables, fifteen on one side and
fifteen on the other. They then asked, "What is the meaning of so many tables?" and the angel
replied, "The first table is for Abraham, the second for Isaac, the third for Jacob, and the
rest in order for the twelve apostles: on the other side are the same number of tables for
their wives; the first three are for Sarah, Abraham's wife, for Rebecca, the wife of Isaac,
and for Leah and Rachel, the wives of Jacob; and the other twelve are for the wives of the
twelve apostles." They had not waited long before the tables were covered with dishes; between
which, at stated distances, were ornaments of small pyramids holding sweetmeats. The guests
stood around the tables waiting to see their respective presidents: these soon entered according
to their order of precedency, beginning with Abraham, and ending with the last of the apostles;
and then each president, taking his place at the head of his own table, reclined on a couch,
and invited the bystanders to take their places, each on his couch: accordingly the men reclined
with the patriarchs and apostles, and the women with their wives: and they ate and drank with
much festivity, but with due decorum. When the repast was ended, the patriarchs and apostles
retired; and then were introduced various sports and dances of virgins and young men; and these
were succeeded by exhibitions. At the conclusion of these entertainments, they were again invited
to feasting; but with this particular restriction, that on the first day they should eat with
Abraham, on the second with Isaac, on the third with Jacob, on the fourth with Peter, on the
fifth with James, on the sixth with John, on the seventh with Paul, and with the rest in order
till the fifteenth day, when their festivity should be renewed again in like order, only changing
their seats, and so on to eternity. After this the angel called together the company that had
attended him, and said to them, "All those whom you have observed at the several tables, had
entertained the same imaginary ideas as yourselves, respecting the joys of heaven and eternal
happiness; and it is with the intent that they may see the vanity of such ideas, and be withdrawn
from them, that those festive representations were appointed and permitted by the Lord. Those
who with so much dignity presided at the tables, were merely old people and feigned characters,
many of them husbandmen and peasants, who, wearing long beards, and from their wealth being
exceedingly proud and arrogant, were easily induced to imagine that they were those patriarchs
and apostles. But follow me to the ways that lead from this place of festivity." They accordingly
followed, and observed groups of fifty or more, here and there, surfeited with the load of
meat which lay on their stomachs, and wishing above all things to return to their domestic
employments, their professions, trades, and handicraft works; but many of them were detained
by the keepers of the grove, who questioned them concerning the days they had feasted, and
whether they had as yet taken their turns with Peter and Paul; representing to them the shame
and indecency of departing till they had paid equal respect to the apostles. But the general
reply was, "We are surfeited with our entertainment; our food has become insipid to us, we
have lost all relish for it, and the very sight of it is loathsome to us; we have spent many
days and nights in such repasts of luxury, and can endure it no longer: we therefore earnestly
request leave to depart." Then the keepers dismissed them, and they made all possible haste
to their respective homes.

After this the angel called the company that attended him, and as they went along he gave them
the following information respecting heaven:--"There are in heaven," says he, "as in the world,
both meats and drinks, both feasts and repasts; and at the tables of the great there is a variety
of the most exquisite food, and all kinds of rich dainties and delicacies, wherewith their
minds are exhilarated and refreshed. There are likewise sports and exhibitions, concerts of
music, vocal and instrumental, and all these things in the highest perfection. Such things
are a source of joy to them, but not of happiness; for happiness ought to be within external
joys, and to flow from them. This inward happiness abiding in external joys, is necessary to
give them their proper relish, and make them joys; it enriches them, and prevents their becoming
loathsome and disgusting; and this happiness is derived to every angel from the use he performs
in his duty or employment. There is a certain vein latent in the affection of the will of every
angel, which attracts his mind to the execution of some purpose or other, wherein his mind
finds itself in tranquillity, and is satisfied. This tranquillity and satisfaction form a state
of mind capable of receiving from the Lord the love of uses; and from the reception of this
love springs heavenly happiness, which is the life of the above-mentioned joys. Heavenly food
in its essence is nothing but love, wisdom, and use united together; that is, use effected
by wisdom and derived from love; wherefore food for the body is given to every one in heaven
according to the use which he performs; sumptuous food to those who perform eminent uses; moderate,
but of an exquisite relish, to those who perform less eminent uses; and ordinary to such as
live in the performance of ordinary uses; but none at all to the slothful."

7. After this the angel called to him the company of the so-called wise ones, who supposed
heavenly joys, and the eternal happiness thence derived, to consist in exalted power and dominion,
with the possession of abundant treasures, attended with more than princely splendor and magnificence,
and who had been betrayed into this supposition by what is written in the Word,--that they
should be kings and princes, and should reign for ever with Christ, and should be ministered
unto by angels; with many other similar expressions. "Follow me," said the angel to them, "and
I will introduce you to your joys." So he led them into a portico constructed of pillars and
pyramids: in the front there was a low porch, through which lay the entrance to the portico;
through this porch he introduced them, and lo! there appeared to be about twenty people assembled.
After waiting some time, they were accosted by a certain person, having the garb and appearance
of an angel, and who said to them, "The way to heaven is through this portico; wait awhile
and prepare yourselves; for the elder among you are to be kings, and the younger princes."
As he said this, they saw near each pillar a throne, and on each throne a silken robe, and
on each robe a sceptre and crown; and near each pyramid a seat raised three feet from the ground,
and on each seat a massive gold chain, and the ensigns of an order of knighthood, fastened
at each end with diamond clasps. After this they heard a voice, saying, "Go now and put on
your robes; be seated, and wait awhile:" and instantly the elder ones ran to the thrones, and
the younger to the seats; and they put on their robes and seated themselves. When lo! there
arose a mist from below, which, communicating its influence to those on the thrones and the
seats, caused them instantly to assume airs of authority, and to swell with their new greatness,
and to be persuaded in good earnest that they were kings and princes. That mist was an aura
of phantasy or imagination with which their minds were possessed. Then on a sudden, several
young pages presented themselves, as if they came on wings from heaven; and two of them stood
in waiting behind every throne, and one behind every seat. Afterwards at intervals a herald
proclaimed:--"Ye kings and princes, wait a little longer; your palaces in heaven are making
ready for you; your courtiers and guards will soon attend to introduce you." Then they waited
and waited in anxious expectation, till their spirits were exhausted, and they grew weary with
desire.

After about three hours, the heavens above them were seen to open, and the angels looked down
in pity upon them, and said, "Why sit ye in this state of infatuation, assuming characters
which do not belong to you? They have made a mockery of you, and have changed you from men
into mere images, because of the imagination which has possessed you, that you should reign
with Christ as kings and princes, and that angels should minister unto you. Have you forgotten
the Lord's words, that whosoever would be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven must be the
least of all, and the servant of all? Learn then what is meant by kings and princes, and by
reigning with Christ; that it is to be wise and perform uses. The kingdom of Christ, which
is heaven, is a kingdom of uses; for the Lord loves every one, and is desirous to do good to
every one; and good is the same thing as use: and as the Lord promotes good or use by the mediation
of angels in heaven, and of men on earth, therefore to such as faithfully perform uses, he
communicates the love thereof, and its reward, which is internal blessedness; and this is true
eternal happiness. There are in the heavens, as on earth, distinctions of dignity and eminence,
with abundance of the richest treasures; for there are governments and forms of government,
and consequently a variety of ranks and orders of power and authority. Those of the highest
rank have courts and palaces to live in, which for splendor and magnificence exceed every thing
that the kings and princes of the earth can boast of; and they derive honor and glory from
the number and magnificence of their courtiers, ministers, and attendants; but then these persons
of high rank are chosen from those whose heartfelt delight consists in promoting the public
good, and who are only externally pleased with the distinctions of dignity for the sake of
order and obedience; and as the public good requires that every individual, being a member
of the common body, should be an instrument of use in the society to which he belongs, which
use is from the Lord and is effected by angels and men as of themselves, it is plain that this
is meant by reigning with the Lord." As soon as the angels had concluded, the kings and princes
descended from their thrones and seats, and cast away their sceptres, crowns, and robes; and
the mist which contained the aura of phantasy was dispersed, and a bright cloud, containing
the aura of wisdom encompassed them, and thus they were presently restored to their sober senses.

8. After this the angel returned to the house of assembly, and called to him those who had
conceived the joys of heaven and eternal happiness to consist in paradisiacal delights; to
whom he said, "Follow me, and I will introduce you into your paradisiacal heaven, that you
may enter upon the beatitudes of your eternal happiness." Immediately he introduced them through
a lofty portal, formed of the boughs and shoots of the finest trees interwoven with each other.
After their admission, he led them through a variety of winding paths in different directions.
The place was a real paradise, on the confines of heaven, intended for the reception of such
as, during their abode on earth, had fancied the whole heaven to be a single paradise, because
it is so called, and had been led to conceive that after death there would be a perfect rest
from all kinds of labor; which rest would consist in a continual feast of pleasures, such as
walking among roses, being exhilarated with the most exquisite wines, and participating in
continual mirth and festivity; and that this kind of life could only be enjoyed in a heavenly
paradise. As they followed the angel, they saw a great number of old and young, of both sexes,
sitting by threes and tens in a company on banks of roses; some of whom were wreathing garlands
to adorn the heads of the seniors, the arms of the young, and the bosoms of the children; others
were pressing the juice out of grapes, cherries, and mulberries, which they collected in cups,
and then drank with much festivity; some were delighting themselves with the fragrant smells
that exhaled far and wide from the flowers, fruits, and odoriferous leaves of a variety of
plants; others were singing most melodious songs, to the great entertainment of the hearers;
some were sitting by the sides of fountains, and directing the bubbling streams into various
forms and channels; others were walking, and amusing one another with cheerful and pleasant
conversation; others were retiring into shady arbors to repose on couches; besides a variety
of other paradisiacal entertainment. After observing these things, the angel led his companions
through various winding paths, till he brought them at length to a most beautiful grove of
roses, surrounded by olive, orange, and citron trees. Here they found many persons sitting
in a disconsolate posture, with their heads reclined on their hands, and exhibiting all the
signs of sorrow and discontent. The companions of the angel accosted them, and inquired into
the cause of their grief. They replied, "This is the seventh day since we came into this paradise:
on our first admission we seemed to ourselves to be elevated into heaven, and introduced into
a participation of its inmost joys; but after three days our pleasures began to pall on the
appetite, and our relish was lost, till at length we became insensible to their taste, and
found that they had lost the power of pleasing. Our imaginary joys being thus annihilated we
were afraid of losing with them all the satisfaction of life, and we began to doubt whether
any such thing as eternal happiness exists. We then wandered through a variety of paths and
passages, in search of the gate at which we were admitted; but our wandering was in vain: for
on inquiring the way of some persons we met, they informed us, that it was impossible to find
the gate, as this paradisiacal garden is a spacious labyrinth of such a nature, that whoever
wishes to go out, enters further and further into it; 'wherefore,' said they, 'you must of
necessity remain here to eternity; you are now in the middle of the garden, where all delights
are centred.'" They further said to the angel's companions, "We have now been in this place
for a day and a half, and as we despair of ever finding our way out, we have sat down to repose
on this bank of roses, where we view around us olive-trees, vines, orange and citron-trees,
in great abundance; but the longer we look at them, the more our eyes are wearied with seeing,
our noses with smelling, and our palates with tasting: and this is the cause of the sadness,
sorrow, and weeping, in which you now behold us." On hearing this relation, the attendant angel
said to them, "This paradisiacal labyrinth is truly an entrance into heaven; I know the way
that leads out of it; and if you will follow me, I will shew it you." No sooner had he uttered
those words than they arose from the ground, and, embracing the angel, attended him with his
companions. The angel as they went along, instructed them in the true nature of heavenly joy
and eternal happiness thence derived. "They do not," said he, "consist in external paradisiacal
delights, unless they are also attended with internal. External paradisiacal delights reach
only the senses of the body; but internal paradisiacal delights reach the affections of the
soul; and the former without the latter are devoid of all heavenly life, because they are devoid
of soul; and every delight without its corresponding soul, continually grows more and more
languid and dull, and fatigues the mind more than labor. There are in every part of heaven
paradisiacal gardens, in which the angels find much joy; and so far as it is attended with
a delight of the soul, the joy is real and true." Hereupon they all asked, "What is the delight
of the soul, and whence is it derived?" The angel replied, "The delight of the soul is derived
from love and wisdom proceeding from the Lord; and as love is operative, and that by means
of wisdom, therefore they are both fixed together in the effect of such operation; which effect
is use. This delight enters into the soul by influx from the Lord, and descends through the
superior and inferior regions of the mind into all the senses of the body, and in them is full
and complete; becoming hereby a true joy, and partaking of an eternal nature from the eternal
fountain whence it proceeds. You have just now seen a paradisiacal garden; and I can assure
you that there is not a single thing therein, even the smallest leaf, which does not exist
from the marriage of love and wisdom in use: wherefore if a man be in this marriage, he is
in a celestial paradise, and therefore in heaven."

9. After this, the conducting angel returned to the house of assembly, and addressed those
who had persuaded themselves that heavenly joy and eternal happiness consist in a perpetual
glorification of God, and a continued festival of prayer and praise to eternity; in consequence
of a belief they had entertained in the world that they should then see God, and because the
life of heaven, originating in the worship of God, is called a perpetual sabbath. "Follow me,"
said the angel to them, "and I will introduce you to your joy." So he led them into a little
city, in the middle of which was a temple, and where all the houses were said to be consecrated
chapels. In that city they observed a great concourse of people flocking together from all
parts of the neighboring country; and among them a number of priests, who received and saluted
them on their arrival, and led them by the hand to the gates of the temple, and from thence
into some of the chapels around it, where they initiated them into the perpetual worship of
God; telling them that the city was one of the courts leading to heaven, and that the temple
was an entrance to a most spacious and magnificent temple in heaven, where the angels glorify
God by prayers and praises to eternity. "It is ordained," said they, "both here and in heaven,
that you are first to enter into the temple, and remain there for three days and three nights
and after this initiation you are to enter the houses of the city, which are so many chapels
consecrated by us to divine worship, and in every house join the congregation in a communion
of prayers, praises, and repetitions of holy things; you are to take heed also that nothing
but pious, holy, and religious subjects enter into your thoughts, or make a part of your conversation."
After this the angel introduced his companions into the temple, which they found filled and
crowded with many persons, who on earth had lived in exalted stations, and also with many of
an inferior class: guards were stationed at the doors to prevent any one from departing until
he had completed his stay of three days. Then said the angel, "This is the second day since
the present congregation entered the temple: examine them, and you will see their manner of
glorifying God." On their examining them, they observed that most of them were fast asleep,
and that those who were awake were listless and yawning; many of them, in consequence of the
continual elevation of their thoughts to God, without any attention to the inferior concerns
of the body, seemed to themselves, and thence also to others, as if their faces were unconnected
with their bodies; several again had a wild and raving look with their eyes, because of their
long abstraction from visible objects; in short, every one, being quite tired out, seemed to
feel an oppression at the chest, and great weariness of spirits, which showed itself in a violent
aversion to what they heard from the pulpit, so that they cried out to the preacher to put
an end to his discourse, for their ears were stunned, they could not understand a single word
he said, and the very sound of his voice was become painful to them. They then all left their
seats, and, crowding in a body to the doors, broke them open, and by mere violence made their
way through the guards. The priests hereupon followed, and walked close beside them, teaching,
praying, sighing, and encouraging them to celebrate the solemn festival, and to glorify God,
and sanctify themselves; "and then," said they, "we will initiate you into the eternal glorification
of God in that most magnificent and spacious temple which is in heaven, and so will introduce
you to the enjoyment of eternal happiness." These words, however, made but little impression
upon them, on account of the listlessness of their minds, arising from the long elevation of
their thoughts above their ordinary labors and employments. But when they attempted to disengage
themselves from them, the priests caught hold of their hands and garments, in order to force
them back again into the temple to a repetition of their prayers and praises; but in vain:
they insisted on being left to themselves to recruit their spirits; "we shall else die," they
said, "through mere faintness and weariness." At that instant, lo! there appeared four men
in white garments, with mitres on their heads; one of them while on earth had been an archbishop,
and the other three bishops, all of whom had now become angels. As they approached, they addressed
themselves to the priests, and said, "We have observed from heaven how you feed these sheep.
Your instruction tends to their infatuation. Do you not know that to glorify God means to bring
forth the fruits of love; that is, to discharge all the duties of our callings with faithfulness,
sincerity, and diligence? for this is the nature of love towards God and our neighbor; and
this is the bond and blessing of society. Hereby God is glorified, as well as by acts of worship
at stated times after these duties. Have you never read these words of the Lord, Herein is
my Father glorified, that ye bring forth much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples, John xv.
8. Ye priests indeed may glorify God by your attendance on his worship, since this is your
office, and from the discharge of it you derive honor, glory, and recompense; but it would
be as impossible for you as for others thus to glorify God, unless honor, glory, and recompense
were annexed to your office." Having said this, the bishops ordered the doorkeepers to give
free ingress and egress to all, there being so great a number of people, who, from their ignorance
of the state and nature of heaven, can form no other idea of heavenly joy than that it consists
in the perpetual worship of God.

10. After this the angel returned with his companions to the place of assembly, where the several
companions of the wise ones were still waiting; and next he addressed those who fancied that
heavenly joy and eternal happiness depend only on admittance into heaven, which is obtained
merely by divine grace and favor; and that in such case the persons introduced would enter
into the enjoyments of heaven, just as those introduced to a court-festival or a marriage,
enter into the enjoyment of such scenes. "Wait here awhile," said the angel, "until I sound
my trumpet, and call together those who have been most distinguished for their wisdom in regard
to the spiritual things of the Church." After some hours, there appeared nine men, each having
a wreath of laurel on his head as a mark of distinction: these the angel introduced into the
house of assembly, where all the companies before collected were still waiting; and then in
their presence he addressed the nine strangers, and said, "I am informed, that in compliance
with your desire, you have been permitted to ascend into heaven, according to your ideas thereof,
and that you have returned to this inferior or sub-celestial earth, perfectly well informed
as to the nature and state of heaven: tell us therefore what you have seen, and how heaven
appeared to you." Then they replied in order; and the First thus began: "My idea of heaven
from my earliest infancy to the end of my life on earth was, that it was a place abounding
with all sorts of blessings, satisfactions, enjoyments, gratifications, and delights; and that
if I were introduced there, I should be encompassed as by an atmosphere of such felicities,
and should receive it with the highest relish, like a bridegroom at the celebration of his
nuptials, and when he enters the chamber with his bride. Full of this idea, I ascended into
heaven, and passed the first guard and also the second; but when I came to the third, the captain
of the guard accosted me and said, 'Who are you, friend?' I replied, 'Is not this heaven? My
longing desire to ascend into heaven has brought me hither; I pray you therefore permit me
to enter.' Then he permitted me; and I saw angels in white garments, who came about me and
examined me, and whispered to each other, 'What new guest is this, who is not clothed in heavenly
raiment?' I heard what they said, and thought within myself, This is a similar case to that
which the Lord describes, of the person who came to the wedding, and had not on a wedding garment:
and I said, 'Give me such garments;' at which they smiled: and instantly one came from the
judgment-hall with this command: 'Strip him naked, cast him out, and throw his clothes after
him;' and so I was cast out." The Second in order then began as follows: "I also supposed that
if I were but admitted into heaven, which was over my head, I should there be encompassed with
joys, which I should partake of to eternity. I likewise wished to be there, and my wish was
granted; but the angels on seeing me fled away, and said one to another, 'What prodigy is this!
how came this bird of night here?' On hearing which, I really felt as if I had undergone some
change, and was no longer a man: this however was merely imaginary, and arose from my breathing
the heavenly atmosphere. Presently, however, there came one running from the judgment-hall,
with an order that two servants should lead me out, and conduct me back by the way I had ascended,
till I had reached my own home; and when I arrived there, I again appeared to others and also
to myself as a man." The Third said, "I always conceived heaven to be some place of blessedness
independent of the state of the affections; wherefore as soon as I came into this world, I
felt a most ardent desire to go to heaven. Accordingly I followed some whom I saw ascending
thither, and was admitted along with them; but I did not proceed far; for when I was desirous
to delight my mind (animus) according to my idea of heavenly blessedness, a sudden stupor,
occasioned by the light of heaven, which is as white as snow, and whose essence is said to
be wisdom, seized my mind (mens) and darkness my eyes, and I was reduced to a state of insanity:
and presently, from the heat of heaven, which corresponds with the brightness of its light,
and whose essence is said to be love, there arose in my heart a violent palpitation, a general
uneasiness seized my whole frame, and I was inwardly excruciated to such a degree that I threw
myself flat on the ground. While I was in this situation, one of the attendants came from the
judgment-hall with an order to carry me gently to my own light and heat; and when I came there
my spirit and my heart presently returned to me." The Fourth said that he also had conceived
heaven to be some place of blessedness independent of the state of the affections. "As soon
therefore," said he, "as I came into the spiritual world, I inquired of certain wise ones whether
I might be permitted to ascend into heaven, and was informed that this liberty was granted
to all, but that there was need of caution how they used it, lest they should be cast down
again. I made light of this caution, and ascended in full confidence that all were alike qualified
for the reception of heavenly bliss in all its fulness: but alas! I was no sooner within the
confines of heaven, than my life seemed to be departing from me, and from the violent pains
and anguish which seized my head and body, I threw myself prostrate on the ground, where I
writhed about like a snake when it is brought near the fire. In this state I crawled to the
brink of a precipice, from which I threw myself down, and being taken up by some people who
were standing near the place where I fell, by proper care I was soon brought to myself again."
The other Five then gave a wonderful relation of what befell them in their ascents into heaven,
and compared the changes they experienced as to their states of life, with the state of fish
when raised out of water into air, and with that of birds when raised out of air into ether;
and they declared that, after having suffered so much pain, they had no longer any desire to
ascend into heaven, and only wished to live a life agreeable to the state of their own affections,
among their like in any place whatever. "We are well informed," they added, "that in the world
of spirits, where we now are, all persons undergo a previous preparation, the good for heaven,
and the wicked for hell; and that after such preparation they discover ways open for them to
societies of their like, with whom they are to live eternally; and that they enter such ways
with the utmost delight, because they are suitable to their love." When those of the first
assembly had heard these relations, they all likewise acknowledged, that they had never entertained
any other notion of heaven than as of a place where they should enter upon the fruition of
never-ceasing delights. Then the angel who had the trumpet thus addressed them: "You see now
that the joys of heaven and eternal happiness arise not from the place, but from the state
of the man's life; and a state of heavenly life is derived from love and wisdom; and since
it is use which contains love and wisdom, and in which they are fixed and subsist, therefore
a state of heavenly life is derived from the conjunction of love and wisdom in use. It amounts
to the same if we call them charity, faith, and good works; for charity is love, faith is truth
whence wisdom is derived, and good works are uses. Moreover in our spiritual world there are
places as in the natural world; otherwise there could be no habitations and distinct abodes;
nevertheless place with us is not place, but an appearance of place according to the state
of love and wisdom, or of charity and faith. Every one who becomes an angel, carries his own
heaven within himself, because he carries in himself the love of his own heaven; for a man
from creation is the smallest effigy, image, and type of the great heaven, and the human form
is nothing else; wherefore every one after death comes into that society of heaven of whose
general form he is an individual effigy; consequently, when he enters into that society he
enters into a form corresponding to his own; thus he passes as it were from himself into that
form as into another self, and again from that other self into the same form in himself, and
enjoys his own life in that of the society, and that of the society in his own; for every society
in heaven may be considered as one common body, and the constituent angels as the similar parts
thereof, from which the common body exists. Hence it follows, that those who are in evils,
and thence in falses, have formed in themselves an effigy of hell, which suffers torment in
heaven from the influx and violent activity of one opposite upon another; for infernal love
is opposite to heavenly love, and consequently the delights of those two loves are in a state
of discord and enmity, and whenever they meet they endeavor to destroy each other."

11. After this a voice was heard from heaven, saying to the angel that had the trumpet, "Select
ten out of the whole assembly, and introduce them to us. We have heard from the Lord that He
will prepare them so as to prevent the heat and light, or the love and wisdom, of our heaven,
from doing them any injury during the space of three days." Ten were then selected and followed
the angel. They ascended by a steep path up a certain hill, and from thence up a mountain,
on the summit of which was situated the heaven of those angels, which had before appeared to
them at a distance like an expanse in the clouds. The gates were opened for them; and after
they had passed the third gate, the introducing angel hastened to the prince of the society,
or of that heaven, and announced their arrival. The prince said, "Take some of my attendants,
and carry them word that their arrival is agreeable to me, and introduce them into my reception-room,
and provide for each a separate apartment with a chamber, and appoint some of my attendants
and servants to wait upon them and attend to their wishes:" all which was done. On being introduced
by the angel, they asked whether they might go and see the prince; and the angel replied, "It
is now morning, and it is not allowable before noon; till that time every one is engaged in
his particular duty and employment: but you are invited to dinner, and then you will sit at
table with our prince; in the meantime I will introduce you into his palace, and show you its
splendid and magnificent contents."

12. When they were come to the palace, they first viewed it from without. It was large and
spacious, built of porphyry, with a foundation of jasper; and before the gates were six lofty
columns of lapis lazuli; the roof was of plates of gold, the lofty windows, of the most transparent
crystal, had frames also of gold. After viewing the outside they were introduced within, and
were conducted from one apartment to another; in each of which they saw ornaments of inexpressible
elegance and beauty; and beneath the roof were sculptured decorations of inimitable workmanship.
Near the walls were set silver tables overlaid with gold, on which were placed various implements
made of precious stones, and of entire gems in heavenly forms, with several other things, such
as no eye had ever seen on earth, and consequently such as could never be supposed to exist
in heaven. While they were struck with astonishment at these magnificent sights, the angel
said, "Be not surprised; the things which you now behold are not the production and workmanship
of any angelic hand, but are framed by the Builder of the universe, and presented as a gift
to our prince; wherefore the architectonic art is here in its essential perfection, and hence
are derived all the rules of that art which are known and practised in the world." The angel
further said, "You may possibly conceive that such objects charm our eyes, and infatuate us
by their grandeur, so that we consider them as constituting the joys of our heaven: this however
is not the case; for our affections not being set on such things, they are only contributory
to the joys of our hearts; and therefore, so far as we contemplate them as such, and as the
workmanship of God, so far we contemplate in them the divine omnipotence and mercy."

13. After this the angel said to them, "It is not yet noon: come with me into our prince's
garden, which is near the palace." So they went with him; and as they were entering, he said,
"Behold here the most magnificent of all the gardens in our heavenly society!" But they replied,
"How! there is no garden here. We see only one tree, and on its branches and at its top as
it were golden fruit and silver leaves, with their edges adorned with emeralds, and beneath
the tree little children with their nurses." Hereupon the angel, with an inspired voice said,
"This tree is in the midst of the garden; some of us call it the tree of our heaven, and some,
the tree of life. But advance nearer, and your eyes will be opened, and you will see the garden."
They did so, and their eyes were opened, and they saw numerous trees bearing an abundance of
fine flavored fruit, entwined about with young vines, whose tops with their fruit inclined
towards the tree of life in the midst. These trees were planted in a continuous series, which,
proceeding from a point, and being continued into endless circles, or gyrations, as of a perpetual
spiral, formed a perfect spiral of trees, wherein one species continually succeeded another,
according to the worth and excellence of their fruit. The circumgyration began at a considerable
distance from the tree in the midst, and the intervening space was radiant with a beam of light,
which caused the trees in the circle to shine with a graduated splendor that was continued
from the first to the last. The first trees were the most excellent of all, abounding with
the choicest fruits, and were called paradisiacal trees, being such as are never seen in any
country of the natural world, because none such ever grew or could grow there. These were succeeded
by olive-trees, the olives by vines, these by sweet-scented shrubs, and these again by timber
trees, whose wood was useful for building. At stated intervals in this spiral or gyre of trees,
were interspersed seats, formed of the young shoots of the trees behind, brought forward and
entwined in each other, while the fruit of the trees hanging over at the same time enriched
and adorned them. At this perpetually winding circle of trees, there were passages which opened
into flower-gardens, and from them into shrubberies, laid out into areas and beds. At the sight
of all these things the companions of the angels exclaimed, "Behold heaven in form! wherever
we turn our eyes we feel an influx of somewhat celestially-paradisiacal, which is not to be
expressed." At this the angel rejoicing said, "All the gardens of our heaven are representative
forms or types of heavenly beatitudes in their origins; and because the influx of these beatitudes
elevated your minds, therefore you exclaimed, 'Behold heaven in form!' but those who do not
receive that influx, regard these paradisiacal gardens only as common woods or forests. All
those who are under the influence of the love of use receive the influx; but those who are
under the influence of the love of glory not originating in use, do not receive it." Afterwards
he explained to them what every particular thing in the garden represented and signified.

14. While they were thus employed, there came a messenger from the prince, with an invitation
to them to dine with him; and at the same time two attendants brought garments of fine linen,
and said, "Put on these; for no one is admitted to the prince's table unless he be clothed
in the garments of heaven." So they put them on, and accompanied their angel, and were shewn
into a drawing-room belonging to the palace, where they waited for the prince; and there the
angel introduced them to the company and conversation of the grandees and nobles, who were
also waiting for the prince's appearing. And lo! in about an hour the doors were opened, and
through one larger than the rest, on the western side, he was seen to enter in stately procession.
His inferior counsellors went before him, after them his privy-counsellors, and next the chief
officers belonging to the court; in the middle of these was the prince; after him followed
courtiers of various ranks, and lastly the guards; in all they amounted to a hundred and twenty.
Then the angel, advancing before the ten strangers, who by their dress now appeared like inmates
of the place, approached with them towards the prince, and reverently introduced them to his
notice; and the prince, without stopping the procession, said to them, "Come and dine with
me." So they followed him into the dining-hall, where they saw a table magnificently set out,
having in the middle a tall golden pyramid with a hundred branches in three rows, each branch
having a small dish, or basket, containing a variety of sweetmeats and preserves, with other
delicacies made of bread and wine; and through the middle of the pyramid there issued as it
were a bubbling fountain of nectareous wine, the stream of which, falling from the summit of
the pyramid separated into different channels and filled the cups. At the sides of this pyramid
were various heavenly golden forms, on which were dishes and plates covered with all kinds
of food. The heavenly forms supporting the dishes and plates were forms of art, derived from
wisdom, such as cannot be devised by any human art, or expressed by any human words: the dishes
and plates were of silver, on which were engraved forms similar to those that supported them;
the cups were transparent gems. Such was the splendid furniture of the table.

15. As regards the dress of the prince and his ministers, the prince wore a long purple robe,
set with silver stars wrought in needle-work; under this robe he had a tunic of bright silk
of a blue or hyacinthine color; this was open about the breast, where there appeared the forepart
of a kind of zone or ribbon, with the ensign of his society; the badge was an eagle sitting
on her young at the top of a tree; this was wrought in polished gold set with diamonds. The
counsellors were dressed nearly after the same manner, but without the badge; instead of which
they wore sapphires curiously cut, hanging from their necks by a golden chain. The courtiers
wore brownish cloaks, wrought with flowers encompassing young eagles; their tunics were of
an opal-colored silk, so were also their lower garments; thus were they dressed.

16. The privy-counsellors, with those of inferior order, and the grandees stood around the
table, and by command of the prince folded their hands, and at the same time in a low voice
said a prayer of thanksgiving to the Lord; and after this, at a sign from the prince, they
reclined on couches at the table. The prince then said to the ten strangers, "Do ye also recline
with me; behold, there are your couches:" so they reclined; and the attendants, who were before
sent by the prince to wait upon them, stood behind them. Then said the prince to them, "Take
each of you a plate from its supporting form, and afterwards a dish from the pyramid;" and
they did so; and lo! instantly new plates and dishes appeared in the place of those that were
taken away; and their cups were filled with wine that streamed from the fountain out of the
tall pyramid: and they ate and drank. When dinner was about half ended, the prince addressed
the ten new guests, and said, "I have been informed that you were convened in the country which
is immediately under this heaven, in order to declare your thoughts respecting the joys of
heaven and eternal happiness thence derived, and that you professed different opinions each
according to his peculiar ideas of delight originating in the bodily senses. But what are the
delights of the bodily senses without those of the soul? The former are animated by the latter.
The delights of the soul in themselves are imperceptible beatitudes; but, as they descend into
the thoughts of the mind, and thence into the sensations of the body, they become more and
more perceptible: in the thoughts of the mind they are perceived as satisfactions, in the sensations
of the body as delights, and in the body itself as pleasures. Eternal happiness is derived
from the latter and the former taken together; but from the latter alone there results a happiness
not eternal but temporary, which quickly comes to an end and passes away, and in some cases
becomes unhappiness. You have now seen that all your joys are also joys of heaven, and that
these are far more excellent than you could have conceived; yet such joys do not inwardly affect
our minds. There are three things which enter by influx from the Lord as a one into our souls;
these three as a one, or this trine, are love, wisdom, and use. Love and wisdom of themselves
exist only ideally, being confined to the affections and thoughts of the mind; but in use they
exist really, because they are together in act and bodily employment; and where they exist
really, there they also subsist. And as love and wisdom exist and subsist in use, it is by
use we are affected; and use consists in a faithful, sincere, and diligent discharge of the
duties of our calling. The love of use, and a consequent application to it, preserve the powers
of the mind, and prevent their dispersion; so that the mind is guarded against wandering and
dissipation, and the imbibing of false lusts, which with their enchanting delusions flow in
from the body and the world through the senses, whereby the truths of religion and morality,
with all that is good in either, become the sport of every wind; but the application of the
mind to use binds and unites those truths, and disposes the mind to become a form receptible
of the wisdom thence derived; and in this case it extirpates the idle sports and pastimes of
falsity and vanity, banishing them from its centre towards the circumference. But you will
hear more on this subject from the wise ones of our society, when I will send to you in the
afternoon." So saying, the prince arose, and the new guests along with him, and bidding them
farewell, he charged the conducting angel to lead them back to their private apartments, and
there to show them every token of civility and respect, and also to invite some courteous and
agreeable company to entertain them with conversation respecting the various joys of this society.

17. The angel executed the prince's charge; and when they were turned to their private apartments,
the company, invited from the city to inform them respecting the various joys of the society,
arrived, and after the usual compliments entered into conversation with them as they walked
along in a strain at once entertaining and elegant. But the conducting angel said, "These ten
men were invited into this heaven to see its joys, and to receive thereby a new idea concerning
eternal happiness. Acquaint us therefore with some of its joys which affect the bodily senses;
and afterwards, some wise ones will arrive, who will acquaint us with what renders those joys
satisfactory and happy." Then the company who were invited from the city related the following
particulars:--"1. There are here days of festivity appointed by the prince, that the mind,
by due relaxation, may recover from the weariness which an emulative desire may occasion in
particular cases. On such days we have concerts of music and singing in the public places,
and out of the city are exhibited games and shows: in the public places at such times are raised
orchestras surrounded with balusters formed of vines wreathed together, from which hang bunches
of ripe grapes; within these balusters in three rows, one above another, sit the musicians,
with their wind and stringed instruments of various tones, both high and low, loud and soft;
and near them are singers of both sexes who entertain the citizens with the sweetest music
and singing, both in concert and solo, varied at times as to its particular kind: these concerts
continue on those days of festivity from morning till noon, and afterwards till evening. 2.
Moreover, every morning from the houses around the public places we hear the sweetest songs
of virgins and young girls, which resound though the whole city. It is an affection of spiritual
love, which is sung every morning; that is, it is rendered sonorous by modifications of the
voice in singing, or by modulations. The affection in the song is perceived as the real affection,
flowing into the minds of the hearers, and exciting them to a correspondence with it: such
is the nature of heavenly singing. The virgin-singers say, that the sound of their song is
as it were self-inspired and self-animated from within, and exalted with delight according
to the reception it meets with from the hearers. When this is ended, the windows of the houses
around the public places, and likewise of those in the streets, are shut, and so also are the
doors; and then the whole city is silent, and no noise heard in any part of it, nor is any
person seen loitering in the streets, but all are intent on their work and the duties of their
calling. 3. At noon, however, the doors are opened, and in the afternoon also the windows in
some houses, and boys and girls are seen playing in the streets, while their masters and mistresses
sit in the porches of their houses, watching over them, and keeping them in order. 4. At the
extreme parts of the city there are various sports of boys and young men, as running, hand-ball,
tennis, &c.; there are besides trials of skill among the boys, in order to discover the readiness
of their wit in speaking, acting, and perceiving; and such as excel receive some leaves of
laurel as a reward; not to mention other things of a like nature, designed to call forth and
exercise the latent talents of the young people. 5. Moreover out of the city are exhibited
stage-entertainments, in which the actors represent the various graces and virtues of moral
life, among whom are inferior characters for the sake of relatives." And one of the ten asked,
"How for the sake of relatives?" And they replied, "No virtue with its graces and beauties,
can be suitably represented except by means of relatives, in which are comprised and represented
all its graces and beauties, from the greatest to the least; and the inferior characters represent
the least, even till they become extinct; but it is provided by law, that nothing of the opposite,
which is indecorous and dishonorable, should be exhibited, except figuratively, and as it were
remotely. The reason of which provision is, because nothing that is honorable and good in any
virtue can by successive progressions pass over to what is dishonorable and evil: it only proceeds
to its least, when it perishes; and when that is the case, the opposite commences; wherefore
heaven, where all things are honorable and good, has nothing in common with hell, where all
things are dishonorable and evil."

18. During this conversation, a servant came in and brought word, that the eight wise ones,
invited by the prince's order, were arrived, and wished to be admitted; whereupon the angel
went out to receive and introduce them: and presently the wise ones, after the customary ceremonies
of introduction, began to converse with them on the beginnings and increments of wisdom, with
which they intermixed various remarks respecting its progression, shewing, that with the angels
it never ceases or comes to a period, but advances and increases to eternity. Hereupon the
attendant angel said to them, "Our prince at table while talking with these strangers respecting
the seat or abode of wisdom, showed that it consists in use: if agreeable to you, be pleased
to acquaint them further on the same subject." They therefore said, "Man, at his first creation,
was endued with wisdom and its love, not for the sake of himself, but that he might communicate
it to others from himself. Hence it is a maxim inscribed on the wisdom of the wise, that no
one is wise for himself alone, or lives for himself, but for others at the same time: this
is the origin of society, which otherwise could not exist. To live for others is to perform
uses. Uses are the bonds of society, which are as many in number as there are good uses; and
the number of uses is infinite. There are spiritual uses, such as regard love to God and love
towards our neighbour; there are moral and civil uses, such as regard the love of the society
and state to which a man belongs, and of his fellow-citizens among whom he lives; there are
natural uses, which regard the love of the world and its necessities; and there are corporeal
uses, such as regard the love of self-preservation with a view to superior uses. All these
uses are inscribed on man, and follow in order one after another; and when they are together,
one is in the other. Those who are in the first uses, which are spiritual, are in all the succeeding
ones, and such persons are wise; but those who are not in the first, and yet are in the second,
and thereby in the succeeding ones, are not so highly principled in wisdom, but only appear
to be so by virtue of an external morality and civility; those who are neither in the first
nor second, but only in the third and fourth, have not the least pretensions to wisdom; for
they are satans, loving only the world and themselves for the sake of the world; but those
who are only in the fourth, are least wise of all; for they are devils, because they live to
themselves alone, and only to others for the sake of themselves. Moreover, every love has its
particular delight; for it is by delight that love is kept alive; and the delight of the love
of uses is a heavenly delight, which enters into succeeding delights in their order, and according
to the order of succession, exalts them and makes them eternal." After this they enumerated
the heavenly delights proceeding from the love of uses, and said, that they are a thousand
times ten thousand; and that all who enter heaven enter into those delights. With further wise
conversation on the love of use, they passed the day with them until evening.

19. Towards evening there came a messenger clothed in linen to the ten strangers who attended
the angel, and invited them to a marriage-ceremony which was to be celebrated the next day,
and the strangers were much rejoiced to think that they were also to be present at a marriage-ceremony
in heaven. After this they were conducted to the house of one of the counsellors, and supped
with him; and after supper they returned to the palace, and each retired to his own chamber,
where they slept till morning. When they awoke, they heard the singing of the virgins and young
girls from the houses around the public places of resort, which we mentioned above. They sung
that morning the affection of conjugial love; the sweetness of which so affected and moved
the hearers, that they perceived sensibly a blessed serenity instilled into their joys, which
at the some time exalted and renewed them. At the hour appointed the angel said, "Make yourselves
ready, and put on the heavenly garments which our prince sent you;" and they did so, and lo!
the garments were resplendent as with a flaming light; and on their asking the angel, "Whence
is this?" he replied, "Because you are going to a marriage-ceremony; and when that is the case,
our garments always assume a shining appearance, and become marriage garments."

20. After this the angel conducted them to the house where the nuptials were to be celebrated,
and the porter opened the door; and presently being admitted within the house, they were received
and welcomed by an angel sent from the bridegroom, and were introduced and shewn to the seats
intended for them: and soon after they were invited into an ante-chamber, in the middle of
which they saw a table, and on it a magnificent candlestick with seven branches and sconces
of gold: against the walls there were hung silver lamps, which being lighted made the atmosphere
appear of a golden hue: and they observed on each side of the candlestick two tables, on which
were set loaves in three rows; there were tables also at the four corners of the room, on which
were placed crystal cups. While they were viewing these things, lo! a door opened from a closet
near the marriage-chamber, and six virgins came out, and after them the bridegroom and the
bride, holding each other by the hand, and advancing towards a seat placed opposite to the
candlestick, on which they seated themselves, the bridegroom on the left hand, and the bride
on the right, while the six virgins stood by the seat near the bride. The bridegroom was dressed
in a robe of bright purple, and a tunic of fine shining linen, with an ephod, on which was
a golden plate set round with diamonds, and on the plate was engraved a young eagle, the marriage-ensign
of that heavenly society; on his head he wore a mitre: the bride was dressed in a scarlet mantle,
under which was a gown, ornamented with fine needle-work, that reached from her neck to her
feet, and beneath her bosom she wore a golden girdle, and on her head a golden crown set with
rubies. When they were thus seated, the bridegroom turning himself towards the bride, put a
golden ring on her finger; he then took bracelets and a pearl necklace, and clasped the bracelets
about her wrists, and the necklace about her neck, and said, "Accept these pledges;" and as
she accepted them he kissed her, and said, "Now thou art mine;" and he called her his wife.
On this all the company cried out, "May the divine blessing be upon you!" These words were
first pronounced by each separately, and afterwards by all together. They were pronounced also
in turn by a certain person sent from the prince as his representative; and at that instant
the ante-chamber was filled with an aromatic smoke, which was a token of blessing from heaven.
Then the servants in waiting took loaves from the two tables near the candlestick, and cups,
now filled with wine, from the tables at the corners of the room, and gave to each of the guests
his own loaf and his own cup, and they ate and drank. After this the husband and his wife arose,
and the six virgins attended them with the silver lamps, now lighted, in their hands to the
threshold; and the married pair entered their chamber; and the door was shut.

21. Afterwards the conducting angel talked with the guests about his ten companions, acquainting
them how he was commissioned to introduce them, and shew them the magnificent things contained
in the prince's palace, and other wonderful sights; and how they had dined at table with him,
and afterwards had conversed with the wise ones of the society; and he said, "May I be permitted
to introduce them also to you, in order that they may enjoy the pleasure of your conversation?"
So he introduced them, and they entered into discourse together. Then a certain wise personage,
one of the marriage-guests, said, "Do you understand the meaning of what you have seen?" They
replied, "But little;" and then they asked him, "Why was the bridegroom, who is now a husband,
dressed in that particular manner?" He answered, "Because the bridegroom, now a husband, represented
the Lord, and the bride, who is now a wife, represented the church; for marriages in heaven
represent the marriage of the Lord with the church. This is the reason why he wore a mitre
on his head, and was dressed in a robe, a tunic, and an ephod, like Aaron; and why the bride
had a crown on her head, and wore a mantle like a queen; but to-morrow they will be dressed
differently, because this representation lasts no longer than to-day." They further asked,
"Since he represented the Lord, and she the church, why did she sit at his right hand?" The
wise one replied, "Because there are two things which constitute the marriage of the Lord with
the church--love and wisdom; the Lord is love, and the church is wisdom; and wisdom is at the
right hand of love; for every member of the church is wise as of himself, and in proportion
as he is wise he receives love from the Lord. The right hand also signifies power; and love
has power by means of wisdom; but, as we have just observed, after the marriage-ceremony the
representation is changed; for then the husband represents wisdom, and the wife the love of
his wisdom. This love however is not primary, but secondary love; being derived from the Lord
to the wife through the wisdom of the husband: the love of the Lord, which is the primary love,
is the husband's love of being wise; therefore after marriage, both together, the husband and
his wife, represent the church." They asked again, "Why did not you men stand by the bridegroom,
now the husband, as the six virgins stood by the bride, now the wife?" The wise one answered,
"Because we to-day are numbered among the virgins; and the number six signifies all and what
is complete." But they said, "Explain your meaning." He replied, "Virgins signify the church;
and the church consists of both sexes: therefore also we, with respect to the church, are virgins.
That this is the case, is evident from these words in the Revelation: 'These are those who
were not defiled with women; for they are Virgins: and they follow the Lamb whithersoever he
goeth,' chap. xiv. 4. And as virgins signify the church, therefore the Lord likened it to ten
Virgins invited to a marriage, Mat. xxv. And as Israel, Zion, and Jerusalem, signify the church,
therefore mention is so often made in the Word, of the Virgin and Daughter of Israel, of Zion,
and of Jerusalem. 9-16." Lastly they asked, "Is it not expedient that a priest be present and
minister at the marriage ceremony?" The wise one answered, "This is expedient on the earth,
but not in the heavens, by reason of the representation of the Lord himself and the church.
On the earth they are not aware of this; but even with us a priest ministers in whatever relates
to betrothings, or marriage contracts, and hears, receives, confirms, and consecrates the consent
of the parties. Consent is the essential of marriage; all succeeding ceremonies are its formalities."

22. After this the conducting angel went to the six virgins, and gave them an account of his
companions, and requested that they would vouchsafe to join company with them. Accordingly
they came; but when they drew near, they suddenly retired, and went into the ladies' apartment
to the virgins their companions. On seeing this, the conducting angel followed them, and asked
why they retired so suddenly without entering into conversation? They replied. "We cannot approach:"
and he said, "Why not?" They answered, "We do not know; but we perceived something which repelled
us and drove us back again. We hope they will excuse us." The angel then returned to his companions,
and told them what the virgins had said, and added, "I conjecture that your love of the sex
is not chaste. In heaven we love virgins for their beauty and the elegance of their manners;
and we love them intensely, but chastely." Hereupon his companions smiled and said, "You conjecture
right: who can behold such beauties near and not feel some excitement?"

23. After much entertaining conversation the marriage-guests departed, and also the ten strangers
with their attendant angel; and the evening being far advanced, they retired to rest. In the
morning they heard a proclamation, TO-DAY IS THE SABBATH. They then arose and asked the angel
what it meant: he replied, "It is for the worship of God, which returns at stated periods,
and is proclaimed by the priests. The worship is performed in our temples and lasts about two
hours; wherefore if it please you, come along with me, and I will introduce you." So they made
themselves ready, and attended the angel, and entered the temple. It was a large building capable
of containing about three thousand persons, of a semicircular form, with benches or seats carried
round in a continued sweep according to the figure of the temple; the hinder ones being more
elevated than those in front. The pulpit in front of the seats was drawn a little from the
centre; the door was behind the pulpit on the left hand. The ten strangers entered with their
conducting angel, who pointed out to them the places where they were to sit; telling them,
"Every one that enters the temple knows his own place by a kind of innate perception; nor can
he sit in any place but his own: in case he takes another place, he neither hears nor perceives
anything, and he also disturbs the order; the consequence of which is, that the priest is not
inspired."

24. When the congregation had assembled, the priest ascended the pulpit, and preached a sermon
full of the spirit of wisdom. The discourse was concerning the sanctity of the Holy Scriptures,
and the conjunction of the Lord with both worlds, the spiritual and the natural, by means thereof.
In the illustration in which he then was, he fully proved, that that holy book was dictated
by Jehovah the Lord, and that consequently He is in it, so as to be the wisdom it contains;
but that the wisdom which is Himself therein, lies concealed under the sense of the letter,
and is opened only to those who are in the truths of doctrine, and at the same time in goodness
of life, and thus who are in the Lord, and the Lord in them. To his discourse he added a votive
prayer and descended. As the audience were going out, the angel requested the priest to speak
a few words of peace with his ten companions; so he came to them, and they conversed together
for about half an hour. He discoursed concerning the divine trinity--that it is in Jesus Christ,
in whom all the fulness of the Godhead dwells bodily, according to the declaration of the apostle
Paul; and afterwards concerning the union of charity and faith; but he said, "the union of
charity and truth;" because faith is truth.

25. After expressing their thanks they returned home; and then the angel said to them, "This
is the third day since you came into the society of this heaven, and you were prepared by the
Lord to stay here three days; it is time therefore that we separate; put off therefore the
garments sent you by the prince, and put on your own." When they had done so, they were inspired
with a desire to be gone; so they departed and descended, the angel attending them to the place
of assembly; and there they gave thanks to the Lord for vouchsafing to bless them with knowledge,
and thereby with intelligence, concerning heavenly joys and eternal happiness.

26. "I again solemnly declare, that these things were done and said as they are related; the
former in the world of spirits, which is intermediate between heaven and hell, and the latter
in the society of heaven to which the angel with the trumpet and the conductor belonged. Who
in the Christian world would have known anything concerning heaven, and the joys and happiness
there experienced, the knowledge of which is the knowledge of salvation, unless it had pleased
the Lord to open to some person the sight of his spirit, in order to shew and teach them? That
similar things exist in the spiritual world is very manifest from what were seen and heard
by the apostle John, as described in the Revelation; as that he saw the Son of Man in the midst
of seven candlesticks; also a tabernacle, temple, ark, and altar in heaven; a book sealed with
seven seals; the book opened, and horses going forth thence; four animals around the throne;
twelve thousand chosen out of every tribe; locusts ascending out of the bottomless pit; a dragon,
and his combat with Michael; a woman bringing forth a male child, and flying into a wilderness
on account of the dragon; two beasts, one ascending out of the sea, the other out of the earth;
a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast; the dragon cast out into a lake of fire and brimstone;
a white horse and a great supper; a new heaven and a new earth, and the holy Jerusalem descending
described as to its gates, wall, and foundation; also a river of the water of life, and trees
of life bearing fruits every month; besides several other particulars; all which things were
seen by John, while as to his spirit he was in the spiritual world and in heaven: not to mention
the things seen by the apostles after the Lord's resurrection; and what were afterwards seen
and heard by Peter, Acts xi.; also by Paul; moreover by the prophets; as by Ezekiel, who saw
four animals which were cherubs, chap i. and chap x.; a new temple and a new earth, and an
angel measuring them, chap. xl.-xlviii.; and was led away to Jerusalem, and saw there abominations:
and also into Chaldea into captivity, chap. viii. and chap. xi. The case was similar with Zechariah,
who saw a man riding among myrtles; also four horns, chap. i. 8, and following verses; and
afterwards a man with a measuring-line in his hand, chap. ii. 1, and following verses; likewise
a candlestick and two olive trees, chap. iv. 2, and following verses; also a flying roll and
an ephah, chap. v. 1, 6; also four chariots going forth between two mountains, and horses,
chap. vi. 1, and following verses. So likewise with Daniel, who saw four beasts coming up out
of the sea, chap. vii. 1, and following verses; also combats of a ram and he-goat, chap. viii.
1, and following verses; who also saw the angel Gabriel, and had much discourse with him, chap.
ix.: the youth of Elisha saw chariots and horses of fire round about Elisha, and saw them when
his eyes were opened, 2 Kings vi. 15, and following verses. From these and several other instances
in the Word, it is evident, that the things which exist in the spiritual world, appeared to
many both before and after the Lord's coming: is it any wonder then, that the same things should
now also appear when the church is commencing, or when the New Jerusalem is coming down from
the Lord out of heaven?"

ON MARRIAGES IN HEAVEN.

27. That there are marriages in heaven cannot be admitted as an article of faith by those who
imagine that a man after death is a soul or spirit, and who conceive of a soul or spirit as
of a rarefied ether or vapor; who imagine also, that a man will not live as a man till after
the day of the last judgment; and in general who know nothing respecting the spiritual world,
in which angels and spirits dwell, consequently in which there are heavens and hells: and as
that world has been heretofore unknown, and mankind have been in total ignorance that the angels
of heaven are men, in a perfect form, and in like manner infernal spirits, but in an imperfect
form, therefore it was impossible for anything to be revealed concerning marriages in that
world; for if it had it would have been objected, "How can a soul be joined with a soul, or
a vapor with a vapor, as one married partner with another here on earth?" not to mention other
similar objections, which, the instant they were made, would take away and dissipate all faith
respecting marriages in another life. But now, since several particulars have been revealed
concerning that world, and a description has also been given of its nature and quality, in
the treatise on HEAVEN AND HELL, and also in the APOCALYPSE REVEALED, the assertion, that marriages
take place in that world, may be so far confirmed as even to convince the reason by the following
propositions: I. A man (homo) lives a man after death. II. In this case a male is a male, and
a female a female. III. Every one's peculiar love remains with him after death. IV. The love
of the sex especially remains; and with those who go to heaven, which is the case with all
who become spiritual here on earth, conjugial love remains. V. These things fully confirmed
by ocular demonstration. VI. Consequently that there are marriages in the heavens. VII. Spiritual
nuptials are to be understood by the Lord's words, where he says, that after the resurrection
they are not given in marriage. We will now give an explanation of these propositions in their
order.

28. I. A MAN LIVES A MAN AFTER DEATH. That a man lives a man after death has been heretofore
unknown in the world, for the reasons just now mentioned; and, what is surprising, it has been
unknown even in the Christian world, where they have the Word, and illustration thence concerning
eternal life, and where the Lord himself teaches, That all the dead rise again; and that God
is not the God of the dead but of the living, Matt. xxii. 31, 32. Luke xx. 37, 38. Moreover,
a man, as to the affections and thoughts of his mind, is in the midst of angels and spirits,
and is so consociated with them that were he to be separated from them he would instantly die.
It is still more surprising that this is unknown, when yet every man that has departed this
life since the beginning of creation, after his decease has come and does still come to his
own, or, as it is said in the Word, has been gathered and is gathered to his own: besides every
one has a common perception, which is the same thing as the influx of heaven into the interiors
of his mind, by virtue of which he inwardly perceives truths, and as it were sees them, and
especially this truth, that he lives a man after death; a happy man if he has lived well, and
an unhappy one if he has lived ill. For who does not think thus, while he elevates his mind
in any degree above the body, and above the thought which is nearest to the senses; as is the
case when he is interiorly engaged in divine worship, and when he lies on his death-bed expecting
his dissolution; also when he hears of those who are deceased, and their lot? I have related
a thousand particulars respecting departed spirits, informing certain persons that are now
alive concerning the state of their deceased brethren, their married partners, and their friends.
I have written also concerning the state of the English, the Dutch, the Papists, the Jews,
the Gentiles, and likewise concerning the state of Luther, Calvin, and Melancthon; and hitherto
I never heard any one object, "How can such be their lot, when they are not yet risen from
their tombs, the last judgement not being yet accomplished? Are they not in the meantime mere
vaporous and unsubstantial souls residing, in some place of confinement (in quodam pu seu ubi)?"
Such objections I have never yet heard from any quarter; whence I have been led to conclude,
that every one perceives in himself that he lives a man after death. Who that has loved his
married partner and his children when they are dying or are dead, will not say within himself
(if his thought be elevated above the sensual principles of the body) that they are in the
hand of God, and that he shall see them again after his own death, and again be joined with
them in a life of love and joy?

29. Who, that is willing, cannot see from reason, that a man after death is not a mere vapor,
of which no idea can be formed but as of a breath of wind, or of air and ether, and that such
vapor constitutes or contains in it the human soul, which desires and expects conjunction with
its body, in order that it may enjoy the bodily senses and their delights, as previously in
the world? We cannot see, that if this were the case with a man after death, his state would
be more deplorable than that of fishes, birds, and terrestrial animals, whose souls are not
alive, and consequently are not in such anxiety of desire and expectation? Supposing a man
after death to be such a vapor, and thus a breath of wind, he would either fly about in the
universe, or according to certain traditions, would be reserved in a place of confinement,
or in the limbo of the ancient fathers, until the last judgement. Who cannot hence from reason
conclude, that those who have lived since the beginning of creation, which is computed to be
about six thousand years ago, must be still in a similar anxious state, and progressively more
anxious, because all expectation arising from desire produces anxiety, and being continued
from time to time increases it; consequently, that they must still be either floating about
in the universe, or be kept shut up in confinement, and thereby in extreme misery; and that
must be the case with Adam and his wife, with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and with all who have
lived since that time? All this being supposed true, it must needs follow, that nothing would
be more deplorable than to be born a man. But the reverse of this is provided by the Lord,
who is Jehovah from eternity and the Creator of the universe; for the state of the man that
conjoins himself with him by a life according to his precepts, becomes more blessed and happy
after death than before it in the world; and it is more blessed and happy from this circumstance,
that the man then is spiritual, and a spiritual man is sensible of and perceives spiritual
delight, which is a thousand times superior to natural delight.

30. That angels and spirits are men, may plainly appear from those seen by Abraham, Gideon,
Daniel, and the prophets, and especially by John when he wrote the Revelation, and also by
the women in the Lord's sepulchre, yea, from the Lord himself as seen by the disciples after
his resurrection. The reason of their being seen was, because the eyes of the spirits of those
who saw them were opened; and when the eyes of the spirit are opened, angels appear in their
proper form, which is the human; but when the eyes of the spirit are closed, that is, when
they are veiled by the vision of the bodily eyes, which derive all their impressions from the
material world, then they do not appear.

31. It is however to be observed, that a man after death is not a natural, but a spiritual
man; nevertheless he still appears in all respects like himself; and so much so, that he knows
not but, that he is still in the natural world: for he has a similar body, countenance, speech,
and senses; for he has a similar affection and thought, or will and understanding. He is indeed
actually not similar, because he is a spiritual, and consequently an interior man; but the
difference does not appear to him, because he cannot compare his spiritual state with his former
natural state, having put off the latter, and being in the former; therefore I have often heard
such persons say, that they know not but that they are in the former world, with this difference,
however, that they no longer see those whom they had left in that world; but that they see
those who had departed out of it, or were deceased. The reason why they now see the latter
and not the former, is, because they are no longer natural men, but spiritual or substantial;
and a spiritual or substantial man sees a spiritual or substantial man, as a natural or material
man sees a natural or material man, but not vice versa, on account of the difference between
what is substantial and what is material, which is like the difference between what is prior
and what is posterior; and what is prior, being in itself purer, cannot appear to what is posterior,
which in itself is grosser; nor can what is posterior, being grosser, appear to what is prior,
which in itself is purer; consequently an angel cannot appear to a man of this world, nor a
man of this world to an angel. The reason why a man after death is a spiritual or substantial
man, is, because this spiritual or substantial man lay inwardly concealed in the natural or
material man; which natural or material man was to it as a covering, or as a skin about to
be cast off; and when the covering or skin is cast off, the spiritual or substantial man comes
forth, a purer, interior, and more perfect man. That the spiritual man is still a perfect man,
notwithstanding his being invisible to the natural man, is evident from the Lord's being seen
by the apostles after his resurrection, when he appeared, and presently he did not appear;
and yet he was a man like to himself both when seen and when not seen: it is also said, that
when they saw him, their eyes were opened.

32. II. IN THIS CASE A MALE IS A MALE, AND A FEMALE A FEMALE. Since a man (homo) lives a man
after death, and man is male and female, and there is such a distinction between the male principle
and the female principle, that the one cannot be changed into the other, it follows, that after
death the male lives a male, and the female a female, each being a spiritual man. It is said
that the male principle cannot be changed into the female principle, nor the female into the
male, and that therefore after death the male is a male, and the female a female; but as it
is not known in what the masculine principle essentially consists, and in what the feminine,
it may be expedient briefly to explain it. The essential distinction between the two is this:
in the masculine principle, love is inmost, and its covering is wisdom; or, what is the same,
the masculine principle is love covered (or veiled) by wisdom; whereas in the feminine principle,
the wisdom of the male is inmost, and its covering is love thence derived; but this latter
love is feminine, and is given by the Lord to the wife through the wisdom of the husband; whereas
the former love is masculine, which is the love of growing wise, and is given by the Lord to
the husband according to the reception of wisdom. It is from this circumstance, that the male
is the wisdom of love, and the female is the love of that wisdom; therefore from creation there
is implanted in each a love of conjunction so as to become a one; but on this subject more
will be said in the following pages. 21-23: the signification of a rib and of flesh will be
shewn elsewhere.

33. From this primitive formation it follows, that by birth the character of the male is intellectual,
and that the female character partakes more of the will principle; or, what amounts to the
same, that the male is born into the affection of knowing, understanding, and growing wise,
and the female into the love of conjoining herself with that affection in the male. And as
the interiors form the exteriors to their own likeness, and the masculine form is the form
of intellect, and the feminine is the form of the love of that intellect, therefore the male
and the female differ as to the features of the face, the tone of the voice, and the form of
the body; the male having harder features, a harsher tone of voice, a stronger body, and also
a bearded chin, and in general a form less beautiful than that of the female; they differ also
in their gestures and manners; in a word, they are not exactly similar in a single respect;
but still, in every particular of each, there is a tendency to conjunction; yea, the male principle
in the male, is male in every part of his body, even the most minute, and also in every idea
of his thought, and every spark of his affection; the same is true of the female principle
in the female; and since of consequence the one cannot be changed into the other, it follows,
that after death a male is a male, and a female a female.

34. III. EVERY ONE'S PECULIAR LOVE REMAINS WITH HIM AFTER DEATH. Man knows that there is such
a thing as love; but he does not know what love is. He knows that there is such a thing from
common discourse; as when it is said, that such a one loves me, that a king loves his subjects,
and subjects love their king; that a husband loves his wife, and a mother her children, and
vice versa; also when it is said, that any one loves his country, his fellow citizens, and
his neighbour; in like manner of things abstracted from persons; as when it is said that a
man loves this or that. But although the term love is thus universally applied in conversation,
still there is scarcely any one that knows what love is: even while meditating on the subject,
as he is not then able to form any distinct idea concerning it, and thus not to fix it as present
in the light of the understanding, because of its having relation not to light but to heat,
he either denies its reality, or he calls it merely an influent effect arising from the sight,
the hearing, and the conversation, and thus accounts for the motions to which it gives birth;
not being at all aware, that love is his very life, not only the common life of his whole body
and of all his thoughts, but also the life of all their particulars. A wise man may perceive
this from the consideration, that if the affection of love be removed, he is incapable both
of thinking and acting; for in proportion as that affection grows cold, do not thought, speech,
and action grow cold also? and in proportion as that affection grows warm, do not they also
grow warm in the same degree? Love therefore is the heat of the life of man (hominis), or his
vital heat. The heat of the blood, and also its redness, are from this source alone. The fire
of the angelic sun, which is pure love, produces this effect.

35. That every one has his own peculiar love, or a love distinct from that of another; that
is, that no two men have exactly the same love, may appear from the infinite variety of human
countenances, the countenance being a type of the love; for it is well known that the countenance
is changed and varied according to the affection of love; a man's desires also, which are of
love, and likewise his joys and sorrows, are manifested in the countenance. From this consideration
it is evident, that every man is his own peculiar love; yea, that he is the form of his love.
It is however to be observed, that the interior man, which is the same with his spirit which
lives after death, is the form of his love, and not so the exterior man which lives in this
world, because the latter has learnt from infancy to conceal the desires of his love; yea,
to make a pretence and show of desires which are different from his own.

36. The reason why every one's peculiar love remains with him after death, is, because, as
was said just above, n. 34, love is a man's (hominis) life; and hence it is the man himself.
A man also is his own peculiar thought, thus his own peculiar intelligence and wisdom; but
these make a one with his love; for a man thinks from this love and according to it; yea, if
he be in freedom, he speaks and acts in like manner; from which it may appear, that love is
the esse or essence of a man's life, and that thought is the existere or existence of his life
thence derived; therefore speech and action, which are said to flow from the thought, do not
flow from the thought, but from the love through the thought. From much experience I have learned
that a man after death is not his own peculiar thought, but that he is his own peculiar affection
and derivative thought; or that he is his own peculiar love and derivative intelligence; also
that a man after death puts off everything which does not agree with his love; yea, that he
successively puts on the countenance, the tone of voice, the speech, the gestures, and the
manners of the love proper to his life: hence it is, that the whole heaven is arranged in order
according to all the varieties of the affections of the love of good, and the whole hell according
to all the affections of the love of evil.

37. The reason why the love of the sex remains with man (homo) after death, is, because after
death a male is a male and a female a female; and the male principle in the male is male (or
masculine) in the whole and in every part thereof; and so is the female principle in the female;
and there is a tendency to conjunction in all their parts, even the most singular; and as this
conjunctive tendency was implanted from creation, and thence perpetually influences, it follows,
that the one desires and seeks conjunction with the other. Love, considered itself, is a desire
and consequent tendency to conjunction; and conjugial love to conjunction into a one; for the
male-man and the female-man were so created, that from two they may become as it were one man,
or one flesh; and when they become a one, then, taken together they are a man (homo) in his
fulness; but without such conjunction, they are two, and each is a divided or half-man. Now
as the above conjunctive tendency lies concealed in the inmost of every part of the male, and
of every part of the female, and the same is true of the faculty and desire to be conjoined
together into a one, it follows, that the mutual and reciprocal love of the sex remains with
men (homines) after death.

38. We speak distinctively of the love of the sex and of conjugial love, because the one differs
from the other. The love of the sex exists with the natural man; conjugial love with the spiritual
man. The natural man loves and desires only external conjunctions, and the bodily pleasures
thence derived; whereas the spiritual man loves and desires internal conjunctions and the spiritual
satisfactions thence derived; and these satisfactions he perceives are granted with one wife,
with whom he can perpetually be more and more joined together into a one: and the more he enters
into such conjunction the more he perceives his satisfactions ascending in a similar degree,
and enduring to eternity; but respecting anything like this the natural man has no idea. This
then is the reason why it is said, that after death conjugial love remains with those who go
to heaven, which is the case with all those who become spiritual here on earth.

39. V. THESE THINGS FULLY CONFIRMED BY OCULAR DEMONSTRATION. That a man (homo) lives as a man
after death, and that in this case a male is a male, and a female a female; and that every
one's peculiar love remains with him after death, especially the love of the sex and conjugial
love, are positions which I have wished hitherto to confirm by such arguments as respect the
understanding, and are called rational; but since man (homo) from his infancy, in consequence
of what has been taught him by his parents and masters, and afterwards by the learned and the
clergy, has been induced to believe, that he shall not live a man after death until the day
of the last judgement, which has now been expected for six thousand years; and several have
regarded this article of faith as one which ought to be believed, but not intellectually conceived,
it was therefore necessary that the above positions should be confirmed also by ocular proofs;
otherwise a man who believes only the evidence of his senses, in consequence of the faith previously
implanted, would object thus: "If men lived men after death, I should certainly see and hear
them: who has ever descended from heaven, or ascended from hell, and given such information?"
In reply to such objections it is to be observed, that it never was possible, nor can it ever
be, that any angel of heaven should descend, or any spirit of hell ascend, and speak with any
man, except with those who have the interiors of the mind or spirit opened by the Lord; and
this opening of the interiors cannot be fully effected except with those who have been prepared
by the Lord to receive the things which are of spiritual wisdom: on which accounts it has pleased
the Lord thus to prepare me, that the state of heaven and hell, and of the life of men after
death, might not remain unknown, and be laid asleep in ignorance, and at length buried in denial.
Nevertheless, ocular proofs on the subjects above mentioned, by reason of their copiousness,
cannot here be adduced; but they have been already adduced in the treatise on HEAVEN and HELL,
and in the CONTINUATION RESPECTING THE SPIRITUAL WORLD, and afterwards in the APOCALYPSE REVEALED;
but especially, in regard to the present subject of marriages, in the MEMORABLE RELATIONS which
are annexed to the several paragraphs or chapters of this work.

40. VI. CONSEQUENTLY THERE ARE MARRIAGES IN HEAVEN. This position having been confirmed by
reason, and at the same time by experience, needs no further demonstration.

41. In the Evangelists are these words, Certain of the Sadducees, who say that there is no
resurrection, asked Jesus, saying, Master, Moses wrote, If a man die, having no children, his
brother shall take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. 27-38, Matt. xxii. 22-32;
Mark xii. 18-27. By these words the Lord taught two things; first, that a man (homo) rises
again after death; and secondly, that in heaven they are not given in marriage. That a man
rises again after death, he taught by these words, God is not the God of the dead, but of the
living, and when he said that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, are alive: he taught the same also
in the parable concerning the rich man in hell, and Lazarus in heaven, Luke xvi. 22-31. Secondly,
that in heaven they are not given in marriage, he taught by these words, "Those who shall be
accounted worthy to attain to another generation, neither marry nor are given in marriage."
That none other than spiritual nuptials are here meant, is very evident from the words which
immediately follow--"neither can they die any more; because they are like unto the angels,
and are the sons of God, being sons of the resurrection." Spiritual nuptials mean conjunction
with the Lord, which is effected on earth; and when it is effected on earth, it is also effected
in the heavens; therefore in the heavens there is no repetition of nuptials, nor are they again
given in marriage: this is also meant by these words, "The sons of this generation marry and
are given in marriage; but those who are accounted worthy to attain to another generation,
neither marry nor are given in marriage". The latter are also called by the Lord "sons of nuptials"
Matt, ix. 15; Mark ii. 19; and in this place, angels, sons of God, and sons of the resurrection.
That to celebrate nuptials, signifies to be joined with the Lord, and that to enter into nuptials
is to be received into heaven by the Lord, is manifest from the following passages: The kingdom
of heaven is like unto a man, a king, who made a marriage (nuptials) his son, and sent out
servants and invited to the marriage. Matt. xxii. 2-14. The kingdom of heaven is like unto
ten virgins, who went forth to meet the bridegroom: of whom five being prepared entered into
the marriage (nuptials), Matt. xxv. 1, and the following verses. 7, 9. That there is a spiritual
meaning in everything which the Lord spake, has been fully shewn in the DOCTRINE OF THE NEW
JERUSALEM CONCERNING THE SACRED SCRIPTURE, published at Amsterdam in the year 1763.

       *       *       *       *       *

42. To the above I shall add two MEMORABLE RELATIONS RESPECTING THE SPIRITUAL WORLD. The first
is as follows: One morning I was looking upwards into heaven and saw over me three expanses
one above another; I saw that the first expanse, which was nearest, opened, and presently the
second which was above it, and lastly the third which was highest; and by virtue of illustration
thence, I perceived, that above the first expanse were the angels who compose the first or
lowest heaven; above the second expanse were the angels who compose the second or middle heaven;
and above the third expanse were the angels who compose the third or highest heaven. I wondered
at first what all this meant: and presently I heard from heaven a voice as of a trumpet, saying,
"We have perceived, and now see, that you are meditating on CONJUGIAL LOVE; and we are aware
that no one on earth as yet knows what true conjugial love is in its origin and in its essence;
and yet it is of importance that it should be known: therefore it has pleased the Lord to open
the heavens to you in order that illustrating light and consequent perception may flow into
the interiors of your mind. With us in the heavens, especially in the third heaven, our heavenly
delights are principally derived from conjugial love; therefore, in consequence of leave granted
us, we will send down to you a conjugial pair for your inspection and observation;" and lo!
instantly there appeared a chariot descending from the highest or third heaven, in which I
saw one angel; but as it approached I saw therein two. The chariot at a distance glittered
before my eyes like a diamond, and to it were harnessed young horses white as snow; and those
who sat in the chariot held in their hands two turtle-doves, and called to me, saying, "Do
you wish us to come nearer to you? but in this case take heed, lest the radiance, which is
from the heaven whence we have descended, and is of a flaming quality, penetrate too interiorly;
by its influence the superior ideas of your understanding, which are in themselves heavenly,
may indeed be illustrated; but these ideas are ineffable in the world in which you dwell: therefore
what you are about to hear, receive rationally, that you may explain it so that it may be understood."
I replied, "I will observe your caution; come nearer:" so they came nearer; and lo! it was
a husband and his wife; who said, "We are a conjugial pair: we have lived happy in heaven from
the earliest period, which you call the golden age, and have continued during that time in
the same bloom of youth in which you now see us." I viewed each of them attentively, because
I perceived they represented conjugial love in its life and in its decoration; in its life
in their faces, and in its decoration in their raiment; for all the angels are affections of
love in a human form. The ruling affection itself shines forth from their faces; and from the
affection, and according to it, the kind and quality of their raiment is derived and determined:
therefore it is said in heaven, that every one is clothed by his own affection. The husband
appeared of a middle age, between manhood and youth: from his eyes darted forth sparkling light
derived from the wisdom of love; by virtue of which light his face was radiant from its inmost
ground; and in consequence of such radiance the surface of his skin had a kind of refulgence,
whereby his whole face was one resplendent comeliness. He was dressed in an upper robe which
reached down to his feet and underneath it was a vesture of hyacinthine blue, girded about
with a golden band, upon which were three precious stones, two sapphires on the sides, and
a carbuncle in the middle; his stockings were of bright shining linen, with threads of silver
interwoven, and his shoes were of velvet: such was the representative form of conjugial love
with the husband. With the wife it was this; I saw her face, and I did not see it; I saw it
as essential beauty, and I did not see it because this beauty was inexpressible; for in her
face there was a splendor of flaming light, such as the angels in the third heaven enjoy, and
this light made my sight dim; so that I was lost in astonishment: she observing this addressed
me, saying, "What do you see?" I replied, "I see nothing but conjugial love and the form thereof;
but I see, and I do not see." Hereupon she turned herself sideways from her husband; and then
I was enabled to view her more attentively. Her eyes were bright and sparkling from the light
of her own heaven, which light, as was said, is of a flaming quality, which it derives from
the love of wisdom; for in that heaven wives love their husbands from their wisdom, and in
it, and husbands love their wives from that love of wisdom and in it, as directed towards themselves;
and thus they are united. This was the origin of her beauty; which was such that it would be
impossible for any painter to imitate and exhibit it in its form, for he has no colors bright
and vivid enough to express its lustre; nor is it in the power of his art to depict such beauty:
her hair was arranged in becoming order so as to correspond with her beauty; and in it were
inserted diadems of flowers; she had a necklace of carbuncles, from which hung a rosary of
chrysolites; and she wore pearl bracelets: her upper robe was scarlet, and underneath it she
had a purple stomacher, fastened in front with clasps of rubies; but what surprised me was,
that the colors varied according to her aspect in regard to her husband, being sometimes more
glittering, sometimes less; if she were looking towards him, more, if sideways, less. When
I had made these observations, they again talked with me; and when the husband was speaking,
he spoke at the same time as from his wife; and when the wife was speaking, she spoke at the
same time as from her husband; such was the union of their minds from whence speech flows;
and on this occasion I also heard the tone of voice of conjugial love; inwardly it was simultaneous,
and it proceeded from the delights of a state of peace and innocence. At length they said,
"We are recalled; we must depart;" and instantly they again appeared to be conveyed in a chariot
as before. They went by a paved way through flowering shrubberies, from the beds of which arose
olive and orange-trees laden with fruit: and when they approached their own heaven, they were
met by several virgins, who welcomed and introduced them.

43. After this I saw an angel from that heaven holding in his hand a roll of parchment, which
he unfolded, saying, "I see that you are meditating on conjugial love; in this parchment are
contained arcana of wisdom respecting that love, which have never yet been disclosed in the
world. They are now to be disclosed, because it is of importance that they should be: those
arcana abound more in our heaven than in the rest, because we are in the marriage of love and
wisdom; but I prophesy that none will appropriate to themselves that love, but those who are
received by the Lord into the New Church, which is the New Jerusalem." Having said this, the
angel let down the unfolded parchment, which a certain angelic spirit received from him, and
laid on a table in a certain closet, which he instantly locked, and holding out the key to
me, said, "Write."

44. THE SECOND MEMORABLE RELATION. I once saw three spirits recently deceased, who were wandering
about in the world of spirits, examining whatever came in their way, and inquiring concerning
it. They were all amazement to find that men lived altogether as before, and that the objects
they saw were similar to those they had seen before: for they knew that they were departed
out of the former or natural world, and that in that world they believed that they should not
live as men until after the day of the last judgement, when they should be again clothed with
the flesh and bones that had been laid in the tomb; therefore, in order to remove all doubt
of their being really and truly men, they by turns viewed and touched themselves and others,
and felt the surrounding objects and by a thousand proofs convinced themselves that they now
were men as in the former world; besides which they saw each other in a brighter light, and
the surrounding objects in superior splendor, and thus their vision was more perfect. At that
instant two angelic spirits happening to meet them, accosted them, saying, "Whence are you?"
They replied, "We have departed out of a world, and again we live in a world; thus we have
removed from one world to another; and this surprises us." Hereupon the three novitiate spirits
questioned the two angelic spirits concerning heaven; and as two of the three novitiates were
youths, and there darted from their eyes as it were a sparkling fire of lust for the sex, the
angelic spirit said, "Possibly you have seen some females;" and they replied in the affirmative;
and as they made inquiry respecting heaven, the angelic spirits gave them the following information:
"In heaven there is every variety of magnificent and splendid objects, and such things as the
eye had never seen; there are also virgins and young men; virgins of such beauty that they
may be called personifications of beauty, and young men of such morality that they may be called
personifications of morality; moreover the beauty of the virgins and the morality of the young
men correspond to each other, as forms mutually suited to each other." Hereupon the two novitiates
asked, "Are there in heaven human forms altogether similar to those in the natural world?"
And it was replied, "They are altogether similar; nothing is wanting in the male, and nothing
in the female; in a word, the male is a male, and the female a female, in all the perfection
of form in which they were created: retire, if you please, and examine if you are deficient
in anything, and whether you are not a complete man as before." Again, the novitiates said,
"We have been told in the world we have left, that in heaven they are not given in marriage,
because they are angels:--is there then the love of the sex there?" And the angelic spirits
replied, "In heaven your love of the sex does not exist; but we have the angelic love of the
sex, which is chaste, and devoid all libidinous allurement." Hereupon the novitiates observed,
"If there be a love of the sex devoid of all allurement, what in such cases is the love of
the sex?" And while they were thinking about this love they sighed, and said, "Oh, how dry
and insipid is the joy of heaven! What young man, if this be the case, can possibly wish for
heaven? Is not such love barren and devoid of life?" To this the angelic spirits replied, with
a smile, "The angelic love of the sex, such as exists in heaven, is nevertheless full of the
inmost delights: it is the most agreeable expansion of all the principles of the mind, and
thence of all the parts of the breast, existing inwardly in the breast, and sporting therein
as the heart sports with the lungs, giving birth thereby to respiration, tone of voice, and
speech; so that the intercourse between the sexes, or between youths and virgins, is an intercourse
of essential celestial sweets, which are pure. All novitiates, on ascending into heaven, are
examined as to the quality of their chastity, being let into the company of virgins, the beauties
of heaven, who from their tone of voice, their speech, their face, their eyes, their gesture,
and their exhaling sphere, perceive what is their quality in regard to the love of the sex;
and if their love be unchaste, they instantly quit them, and tell their fellow angels that
they have seen satyrs or priapuses. The new comers also undergo a change, and in the eyes of
the angels appear rough and hairy, and with feet like calves' or leopards', and presently they
are cast down again, lest by their lust they should defile the heavenly atmosphere." On receiving
this information, the two novitiates again said, "According to this, there is no love of the
sex in heaven; for what is a chaste love of the sex, but a love deprived of the essence of
its life? And must not all the intercourse of youths and virgins, in such case, consist of
dry insipid joys? We are not stocks and stones, but perceptions and affections of life." To
this the angelic spirits indignantly replied, "You are altogether ignorant what a chaste love
of the sex is; because as yet you are not chaste. This love is the very essential delight of
the mind, and thence of the heart; and not at the same time of the flesh beneath the heart.
Angelic chastity, which is common to each sex, prevents the passage of that love beyond the
enclosure of the heart; but within that and above it, the morality of a youth is delighted
with the beauty of a virgin in the delights of the chaste love of the sex: which delights are
of too interior a nature, and too abundantly pleasant, to admit of any description in words.
The angels have this love of the sex, because they have conjugial love only; which love cannot
exist together with the unchaste love of the sex. Love truly conjugial is chaste, and has nothing
in common with unchaste love, being confined to one of the sex, and separate from all others;
for it is a love of the spirit and thence of the body, and not a love of the body and thence
of the spirit; that is, it is not a love infesting the spirit." On hearing this, the two young
novitiates rejoiced, and said, "There still exists in heaven a love of the sex; what else is
conjugial love?" But the angelic spirits replied, "Think more profoundly, weigh the matter
well in your minds, and you will perceive, that your love of the sex is a love extra-conjugial,
and quite different from conjugial love; the latter being as distinct from the former, as wheat
is from chaff, or rather as the human principle is from the bestial. If you should ask the
females in heaven, 'What is love extra-conjugial?' I take upon me to say, their reply will
be, 'What do you mean? What do you say? How can you utter a question which so wounds our ears?
How can a love that is not created be implanted in any one?' If you should then ask them, 'What
is love truly conjugial?' I know they will reply, 'It is not the love of the sex, but the love
of one of the sex; and it has no other ground of existence than this, that when a youth sees
a virgin provided by the Lord, and a virgin sees a youth, they are each made sensible of a
conjugial principle kindling in their hearts, and perceive that each is the other's, he hers,
and she his; for love meets love and causes them to know each other, and instantly conjoins
their souls, and afterwards their minds, and thence enters their bosoms, and after the nuptials
penetrates further, and thus becomes love in its fulness, which grows every day into conjunction,
till they are no longer two, but as it were one.' I know also that they will be ready to affirm
in the most solemn manner, that they are not acquainted with any other love of the sex; for
they say, 'How can there be a love of the sex, unless it be tending mutually to meet, and reciprocal,
so as to seek an eternal union, which consists in two becoming one flesh?'" To this the angelic
spirits added, "In heaven they are in total ignorance what whoredom is; nor do they know that
it exists, or that its existence is even possible. The angels feel a chill all over the body
at the idea of unchaste or extra-conjugial love; and on the other hand, they feel a genial
warmth throughout the body arising from chaste or conjugial love. With the males, all the nerves
lose their proper tension at the sight of a harlot, and recover it again at the sight of a
wife." The three novitiates, on hearing this, asked, "Does a similar love exist between married
partners in the heavens as in the earths?" The two angelic spirits replied, that it was altogether
similar; and as they perceived in the novitiates an inclination to know, whether in heaven
there were similar ultimate delights, they said, that they were exactly similar, but much more
blessed, because angelic perception and sensation is much more exquisite than human: "and what,"
added they, "is the life of that love unless derived from a flow of vigor? When this vigor
fails, must not the love itself also fail and grow cold? Is not this vigor the very measure,
degree, and basis of that love? Is it not its beginning, its support, and its fulfilment? It
is a universal law, that things primary exist, subsist, and persist from things ultimate: this
is true also of that love; therefore unless there were ultimate delights, there would be no
delights of conjugial love." The novitiates then asked, whether from the ultimate delights
of that love in heaven any offspring were produced; and if not, to what use did those delights
serve? The angelic spirit answered, that natural offspring were not produced, but spiritual
offspring: and the novitiates said, "What are spiritual offspring?" They replied, "Two conjugial
partners by ultimate delights are more and more united in the marriage of good and truth, which
is the marriage of love and wisdom; and love and wisdom are the offspring produced therefrom:
in heaven the husband is wisdom, and the wife is the love thereof, and both are spiritual;
therefore, no other than spiritual offspring can be there conceived and born: hence it is that
the angels, after such delights, do not experience sadness, as some do on earth, but are cheerful;
and this in consequence of a continual influx of fresh powers succeeding the former, which
serve for their renovation, and at the same time illustration: for all who come into heaven,
return into their vernal youth, and into the vigor of that age, and thus continue to eternity."
The three novitiates, on hearing this, said, "Is it not written in the Word, that in heaven
they are not given in marriage, because they are angels?" To which the angelic spirits replied,
"Look up into heaven and you will receive an answer:" and they asked, "Why are we to look up
into heaven?" They said, "Because thence we receive all interpretations of the Word. The Word
is altogether spiritual and the angels being spiritual, will teach the spiritual understanding
of it." They did not wait long before heaven was opened over their heads, and two angels appeared
in view, and said, "There are nuptials in the heavens, as on earth; but only with those in
the heavens who are in the marriage of good and truth; nor are any other angels: therefore
it is spiritual nuptials, which relate to the marriage of good and truth, that are there understood.
These (viz. spiritual nuptials) take place on earth, but not after departure thence, thus not
in the heavens; as it is said of the live foolish virgins, who were also invited to the nuptials,
that they could not enter, because they were not in the marriage of good and truth; for they
had no oil, but only lamps. Oil signifies good, and lamps truth; and to be given in marriage
denotes to enter heaven, where the marriage of good and truth takes place." The three novitiates
were made glad by this intelligence; and being filled with a desire of heaven, and with the
hope of heavenly nuptials, they said, "We will apply ourselves with all diligence to the practice
of morality and a becoming conduct of life, that we may enjoy our wishes."

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE STATE OF MARRIED PARTNERS AFTER DEATH.

45. That there are marriages in the heavens, has been shewn just above; it remains now to be
considered, whether the marriage-covenant ratified in the world will remain and be in force
after death, or not. As this is a question not of judgement but of experience, and as experience
herein has been granted me by consociation with angels and spirits, I will here adduce it;
but yet so that reason may assent thereto. To have this question determined, is also an object
of the wishes and desires of all married persons; for husbands who have loved their wives,
in case they die, are desirous to know whether it be well with them, and whether they shall
ever meet again; and the same is true of wives in regard to their husbands. Many married pairs
also wish to know beforehand whether they are to be separated after death, or to live together:
those who have disagreed in their tempers, wish to know whether they are to be separated; and
those who have agreed, whether they are to live together. Information on this subject then
being much wished for, we will now proceed to give it in the following order: I. The love of
the sex remains with every man (homo) after death, according to its interior quality; that
is, such as it had been in his interior will and thought in the world. II. The same is true
of conjugial love. III. Married partners most commonly meet after death, know each other, again
associate and for a time live together: this is the case in the first state, thus while they
are in externals as in the world. IV. But successively, as they put off their externals, and
enter into their internals, they perceive what had been the quality of their love and inclination
for each other, and consequently whether they can live together or not. V. If they can live
together, they remain married partners; but if they cannot they separate; sometimes the husband
from the wife, sometimes the wife from the husband, and sometimes each from the other. VI.
In this case there is given to the man a suitable wife, and to the woman a suitable husband.
VII. Married partners enjoy similar communications with each other as in the world, but more
delightful and blessed, yet without prolification; in the place of which they experience spiritual
prolification, which is that of love and wisdom. VIII. This is the case with those who go to
heaven; but it is otherwise with those who go to hell. We now proceed to an explanation of
these propositions, by which they may be illustrated and confirmed.

46. I. THE LOVE OF THE SEX REMAINS WITH EVERY MAN AFTER DEATH, ACCORDING TO ITS INTERIOR QUALITY;
THAT IS, SUCH AS IT HAD BEEN IN HIS INTERIOR WILL AND THEREBY IN THE WOMAN. Every love follows
a man after death, because it is the esse of his life; and the ruling love, which is the head
of the rest, remains with him to eternity, and together with it the subordinate loves. The
reason why they remain, is, because love properly appertains to the spirit of man, and to the
body by derivation from the spirit; and a man after death becomes a spirit and thereby carries
his love along with him; as love is the esse of a man's life, it is evident, that such as a
man's life has been in the world, such is his lot after death. The love of the sex is the most
universal of all loves, being implanted from creation in the very soul of man, from which the
essence of the whole man is derived, and this for the sake of the propagation of the human
race. The reason why this love chiefly remains is, because after death a male is a male, and
a female a female, and because there is nothing in the soul, the mind, and the body, which
is not male (or masculine) in the male, and female (or feminine) in the female; and these two
(the male and female) are so created, that they have a continual tendency to conjunction, yea,
to such a conjunction as to become a one. This tendency is the love of the sex, which precedes
conjugial love. Now, since a conjunctive inclination is inscribed on every part and principle
of the male and of the female, it follows, that this inclination cannot be destroyed and die
with the body.

47. The reason why the love of the sex remains such as it was interiorly in the world, is,
because every man has an internal and an external, which are also called the internal and external
man; and hence there is an internal and an external will and thought. A man when he dies, quits
his external, and retains his internal; for externals properly belong to his body, and internals
to his spirit. Now since every man is his own love, and love resides in the spirit, it follows,
that the love of the sex remains with him after death, such as it was interiorly with him;
as for example, if the love interiorly had been conjugial and chaste, it remains such after
death; but if it had been interiorly adulterous (anti-conjugial), it remains such also after
death. It is however to be observed that the love of the sex is not the same with one person
as with another; its differences are infinite: nevertheless, such as it is in any one's spirit,
such it remains.

48. II. CONJUGIAL LOVE IN LIKE MANNER REMAINS SUCH AS IT HAD BEEN INTERIORLY; THAT IS, SUCH
AS IT HAD BEEN IN THE MAN'S INTERIOR WILL AND THOUGHT IN THE WORLD. As the love of the sex
is one thing, and conjugial love another, therefore mention is made of each; and it is said,
that the latter also remains after death such as it has been internally with a man, during
his abode in the world: but as few know the distinction between the love of the sex and conjugial
love, therefore, before we proceed further in the subject of this treatise, it may be expedient
briefly to point it out. The love of the sex is directed to several, and contracted with several
of the sex; but conjugial love is directed to only one, and contracted with one of the sex;
moreover, love directed to and contracted with several is a natural love; for it is common
to man with beasts and birds, which are natural: but conjugial love is a spiritual love, and
peculiar and proper to men; because men were created, and are therefore born to become spiritual;
therefore, so far as a man becomes spiritual, so far he puts off the love of the sex, and puts
on conjugial love. In the beginning of marriage the love of the sex appears as if conjoined
with conjugial love; but in the progress of marriage they are separated; and in this case,
with such as are spiritual, the love of the sex is removed, and conjugial love is imparted;
but with such as are natural, the contrary happens. From these observations it is evident,
that the love of the sex, being directed to and contracted with several and being in itself
natural, yea, animal, is impure and unchaste, and being vague and indeterminate in its object,
is adulterous; but the case is altogether different with conjugial love. That conjugial love
is spiritual, and truly human, will manifestly appear from what follows. There are two states
in which a man (homo) enters after death, an external and an internal state. He comes first
into his external state, and afterwards into his internal; and during the external state, married
partners meet each other, (supposing they are both deceased,) know each other, and if they
have lived together in the world, associate again, and for some time live together; and while
they are in this state they do not know the inclination of each to the other, this being concealed
in the internals of each; but afterwards, when they come into their internal state, the inclination
manifests itself; and if it be in mutual agreement and sympathy, they continue to live together
a conjugial life; but if it be in disagreement and antipathy, their marriage is dissolved.
In case a man had had several wives, he successively joins himself with them, while he is in
his external state; but when he enters into his internal state, in which lie perceives the
inclinations of his love, and of what quality they are, he then either adopts one or leaves
them all; for in the spiritual world, as well as in the natural, it is not allowable for any
Christian to have more than one wife, as it infests and profanes religion. The case is the
same with a woman that had had several husbands: nevertheless the women in this case do not
join themselves to their husbands; they only present themselves, and the husbands join them
to themselves. It is to be observed that husbands rarely know their wives, but that wives well
know their husbands, women having an interior perception of love, and men only an exterior.
There is no occasion to explain this further, as it follows from what is shewn in the previous
section; suffice it here to shew how a man (homo) after death puts off his externals and puts
on his internals. Every one after death is first introduced into the world which is called
the world of spirits, and which is intermediate between heaven and hell; and in that world
he is prepared, for heaven if he is good, and for hell if he is evil. The end or design of
this preparation is, that the internal and external may agree together and make a one, and
not disagree and make two: in the natural world they frequently make two, and only make a one
with those who are sincere in heart. That they make two is evident from the deceitful and the
cunning; especially from hypocrites, flatterers, dissemblers, and liars: but in the spiritual
world it is not allowable thus to have a divided mind; for whoever has been internally wicked
must also be externally wicked; in like manner, whoever has been good, must be good in each
principle: for every man after death becomes of such a quality as he had been interiorly, and
not such as he had been exteriorly. For this end, after his decease, he is let alternately
into his external and his internal; and every one, while he is in his external, is wise, that
is, he wishes to appear wise, even though he be wicked; but a wicked person internally is insane.
By those changes he is enabled to see his follies, and to repent of them: but if he had not
repented in the world, he cannot afterwards; for he loves his follies, and wishes to remain
in them: therefore he forces his external also to be equally insane: thus his internal and
his external become a one; and when this is effected, he is prepared for hell. But it is otherwise
with a good spirit: such a one, as in the world he had looked unto God and had repented, was
more wise in his internal than in his external: in his external also, through the allurements
and vanities of the world, he was sometimes led astray; therefore his external is likewise
reduced to agreement with his internal, which, as was said, is wise; and when this is effected
he is prepared for heaven. From these considerations it may plainly appear, how the case is
in regard to putting off the external and putting on the internal after death.

49. The reason why separations take place after death is, because the conjunctions which are
made on earth are seldom made from any internal perception of love, but from an external perception,
which hides the internal. The external perception of love originates in such things as regard
the love of the world and of the body. Wealth and large possessions are peculiarly the objects
of worldly love, while dignities and honors are those of the love of the body: besides these
objects, there are also various enticing allurements, such as beauty and an external polish
of manners, and sometimes even an unchasteness of character. Moreover, matrimonial engagements
are frequently contracted within the particular district, city, or village, in which the parties
were born, and where they live; in which case the choice is confined and limited to families
that are known, and to such as are in similar circumstances in life: hence matrimonial connections
made in the world are for the most part external, and not at the same time internal; when yet
it is the internal conjunction, or the conjunction of souls, which constitutes a real marriage;
and this conjunction is not perceivable until the man puts off the external and puts on the
internal; as is the case after death. This then is the reason why separations take place, and
afterwards new conjunctions are formed with such as are of a similar nature and disposition;
unless these conjunctions have been provided on earth, as happens with those who from an early
age have loved, have desired, and have asked of the Lord an honorable and lovely connection
with one of the sex, shunning and abominating the impulses of a loose and wandering lust.

50. The reason of this is, because no married partners can be received into heaven, so as to
remain there, but such as have been interiorly united, or as are capable of being so united;
for in heaven two married partners are not called two, but one angel; this is understood by
the Lord's words "They are no longer two, but one flesh." The reason why no other married partners
are there received is, because in heaven no others can live together in one house, and in one
chamber and bed; for all in the heavens are associated according to the affinities and relationships
of love, and have their habitations accordingly. In the spiritual world there are not spaces,
but the appearance of spaces; and these appearances are according to the states of life of
the inhabitants, which are according to their states of love; therefore in that world no one
can dwell but in his own house, which is provided for him and assigned to him according to
the quality of his love: if he dwells in any other, he is straitened and pained in his breast
and breathing; and it is impossible for two to dwell together in the same house unless they
are likenesses; neither can married partners so dwell together, unless they are mutual inclinations;
if they are external inclinations, and not at the same time internal, the very house or place
itself separates, and rejects and expels them. This is the reason why for those who after preparation
are introduced into heaven, there is provided a marriage with a consort whose soul inclines
to mutual union with the soul of another, so that they no longer wish to be two lives, but
one. This is the reason why after separation there is given to the man a suitable wife and
to the woman in like manner a suitable husband.

51. VII. The reason why married pairs enjoy similar communications as in the world, is, because
after death a male is a male, and a female a female, and there is implanted in each at creation
an inclination to conjunction; and this inclination with man is the inclination of his spirit
and thence of his body; therefore after death, when a man becomes a spirit, the same mutual
inclination remains, and this cannot exist without similar communications; for after death
a man is a man as before; neither is there any thing wanting either in the male or in the female:
as to form they are like themselves, and also as to affections and thoughts; and what must
be the necessary consequence, but that they must enjoy like communications? And as conjugial
love is chaste, pure, and holy, therefore their communications are ample and complete; but
on this subject see what was said in the MEMORABLE RELATION, n. 44. The reason why such communications
are more delightful and blessed than in the world, is, because conjugial love, as it is the
love of the spirit, becomes interior and purer, and thereby more perceivable; and every delight
increases according to perception, and to such a degree that its blessedness is discernible
in its delight.

52. The reason why marriages in the heavens are without prolification, and that in place thereof
there is experienced spiritual prolification, which is that of love and wisdom, is, because
with the inhabitants of the spiritual world, the third principle--the natural, is wanting;
and it is this which contains the spiritual principles; and these without that which contains
them have no consistence, like the productions of the natural world: moreover spiritual principles,
considered in themselves, have relation to love and wisdom; therefore love and wisdom are the
births produced from marriages in the heavens. These are called births, because conjugial love
perfects an angel, uniting him with his consort, in consequence whereof he becomes more and
more a man (homo) for, as was said above, two married partners in heaven are not two but one
angel; wherefore by conjugial unition they fill themselves with the human principle, which
consists in desiring to grow wise, and in loving whatever relates to wisdom.

53. VIII. THIS IS THE CASE WITH THOSE WHO GO TO HEAVEN; BUT IT IS OTHERWISE WITH THOSE WHO
GO TO HELL. That after death a suitable wife is given to a husband, and a suitable husband
to a wife, and that they enjoy delightful and blessed communications, but without prolification,
except of a spiritual kind, is to be understood of those who are received into heaven and become
angels; because such are spiritual, and marriages in themselves are spiritual and thence holy:
but with respect to those who go to hell, they are all natural; and marriages merely natural
are not marriages, but conjunctions which originate in unchaste lust. The nature and quality
of such conjunctions will be shewn in the following pages, when we come to treat of the chaste
and the unchaste principles, and further when we come to treat of adulterous love.

54. To what has been above related concerning the state of married partners after death, it
may be expedient to add the following circumstances. I. That all those married partners who
are merely natural, are separated after death; because with them the love of marriage grows
cold, and the love of adultery grows warm: nevertheless after separation, they sometimes associate
as married partners with others; but after a short time they withdraw from each other: and
this in many cases is done repeatedly; till at length the man is made over to some harlot,
and the woman to some adulterer; which is effected in an infernal prison: concerning which
prison, see the APOCALYPSE REVEALED, n. 153, § x., where promiscuous whoredom is forbidden
each party under certain pains and penalties. II. Married partners, of whom one is spiritual
and the other natural, are also separated after death; and to the spiritual is given a suitable
married partner: whereas the natural one is sent to the resorts of the lascivious among his
like. III. But those, who in the world have lived a single life, and have altogether alienated
their minds from marriage, in case they be spiritual, remain single; but if natural, they become
whoremongers. It is otherwise with those, who in their single state have desired marriage,
and especially if they have solicited it without success; for such, if they are spiritual,
blessed marriages are provided, but not until they come into heaven. IV. Those who in the world
have been shut up in monasteries, both men and women, at the conclusion of the monastic life,
which continues some time after death, are let loose and discharged, and enjoy the free indulgence
of their desires, whether they are disposed to live in a married state or not: if they are
disposed to live in a married state, this is granted them; but if otherwise, they are conveyed
to those who live in celibacy on the side of heaven; such, however, as have indulged the fires
of prohibited lust, are cast down. V. The reason why those who live in celibacy are on the
side of heaven, is, because the sphere of perpetual celibacy infests the sphere of conjugial
love, which is the very essential sphere of heaven; and the reason why the sphere of conjugial
love is the very essential sphere of heaven, is, because it descends from the heavenly marriage
of the Lord and the church.

       *        *        *        *        *

55. To the above, I shall add two MEMORABLE RELATIONS: the FIRST is this. On a certain time
I heard from heaven the sweetest melody, arising from a song that was sung by wives and virgins
in heaven. The sweetness of their singing was like the affection of some kind of love flowing
forth harmoniously. Heavenly songs are in reality sonorous affections, or affections expressed
and modified by sounds; for as the thoughts are expressed by speech, so the affections are
expressed by songs; and from the measure and flow of the modulation, the angels perceive the
object of the affection. On this occasion there were many spirits about me; and some of them
informed me that they heard this delightful melody, and that it was the melody of some lovely
affection, the object of which they did not know: they therefore made various conjectures about
it, but in vain. Some conjectured that the singing expressed the affection of a bridegroom
and bride when they sign the marriage-articles; some that it expressed the affection of a bridegroom
and a bride at the solemnizing of the nuptials; and some that it expressed the primitive love
of a husband and a wife. But at that instant there appeared in the midst of them an angel from
heaven, who said, that they were singing the chaste love of the sex. Hereupon some of the bystanders
asked, "What is the chaste love of the sex?" And the angel answered, "It is the love which
a man bears towards a beautiful and elegant virgin or wife, free from every lascivious idea,
and the same love experienced by a virgin or a wife towards a man." As he said this, he disappeared.
The singing continued; and as the bystanders then knew the subject of the affection which it
expressed, they heard it very variously, every one according to the state of his love. Those
who looked upon women chastely, heard it as a song of symphony and sweetness; those who looked
upon them unchastely, heard it as a discordant and mournful song; and those who looked upon
them disdainfully, heard it as a song that was harsh and grating. At that instant the place
on which they stood was suddenly changed into a theatre, and a voice was heard, saying, "INVESTIGATE
THIS LOVE:" and immediately spirits from various societies presented themselves, and in the
midst of them some angels in white. The latter then said, "We in this spiritual world have
inquired into every species of love, not only into the love which a man has for a man, and
a woman for a woman; and into the reciprocal love of a husband and a wife; but also into the
love which a man has for woman, and which a woman has for men; and we have been permitted to
pass through societies and examine them, and we have never yet found the common love of the
sex chaste, except with those who from true conjugial love are in continual potency, and these
are in the highest heavens. We have also been permitted to perceive the influx of this love
into the affections of our hearts, and have been made sensible that it surpasses in sweetness
every other love, except the love of two conjugial partners whose hearts are as one: but we
have besought you to investigate this love, because it is new and unknown to you; and since
it is essential pleasantness, we in heaven call it heavenly sweetness." They then began the
investigation; and those spoke first who were unable to think chastely of marriages. They said,
"What man when he beholds a beautiful and lovely virgin or wife, can so correct or purify the
ideas of his thought from concupiscence, as to love the beauty and yet have no inclination
to taste it, if it be allowable? Who can convert concupiscence, which is innate in every man,
into such chastity, thus into somewhat not itself, and yet love? Can the love of the sex, when
it enters by the eyes into the thoughts, stop at the face of a woman? Does it not descend instantly
into the breast, and beyond it? The angels talk idly in saying that this love is chaste, and
yet is the sweetest of all loves, and that it can only exist with husbands who are in true
conjugial love, and thence in an extreme degree of potency with their wives. Do such husbands
possess any peculiar power more than other men, when they see a beautiful woman, of keeping
the ideas of their thought in a state of elevation, and as it were of suspending them, so that
they cannot descend and proceed to what constitutes that love?" The argument was next taken
up by those who were in cold and in heat; in cold towards their wives, and in heat towards
the sex; and they said, "What is the chaste love of the sex? Is it not a contradiction in terms
to talk of such a love? If chastity be predicated of the love of the sex, is not this destroying
the very thing of which it is predicated? How can the chaste love of the sex be the sweetest
of all loves, when chastity deprives it of its sweetness? You all know where the sweetness
of that love resides; when therefore the idea connected therewith is banished from the mind,
where and whence is the sweetness?" At that instant certain spirits interrupted them, and said,
"We have been in company with the most beautiful females and have had no lust; therefore we
know what the chaste love of the sex is." But their companions, who were acquainted with their
lasciviousness, replied, "You were at those times in a state of loathing towards the sex, arising
from impotence; and this is not the chaste love of the sex, but the ultimate of unchaste love."
On hearing what had been said, the angels were indignant and requested those who stood on the
right, or to the south, to deliver their sentiments. They said, "There is a love of one man
to another, and also of one woman to another; and there is a love of a man to a woman, and
of a woman to a man; and these three pairs of loves totally differ from each other. The love
of one man to another is as the love of understanding and understanding; for the man was created
and consequently born to become understanding; the love of one woman to another is as the love
of affection and affection of the understanding of men; for the woman was created and born
to become a love of the understanding of a man. These loves, viz., of one man to another, and
of one woman to another, do not enter deeply into the bosom, but remain without, and only touch
each other; thus they do not interiorly conjoin the two parties: wherefore also two men, by
their mutual reasonings, sometimes engage in combat together like two wrestlers; and two women,
by their mutual concupiscences, are at war with each other like two prize-fighters. But the
love of a man and a woman is the love of the understanding and of its affection; and this love
enters deeply and effects conjunction, which is that love; but the conjunction of minds, and
not at the same time of bodies, or the endeavour towards that conjunction alone, is spiritual
love, and consequently chaste love; and this love exists only with those who are in true conjugial
love, and thence in an eminent degree of potency; because such, from their chastity, do not
admit an influx of love from the body of any other woman than of their own wives; and as they
are in an extreme degree of potency, they cannot do otherwise than love the sex, and at the
same time hold in aversion whatever is unchaste. Hence they are principled in a chaste love
of the sex, which, considered in itself, is interior spiritual friendship, deriving its sweetness
from an eminent degree of potency, but still being chaste. This eminent degree of potency they
possess in consequence of a total renunciation of whoredom; and as each loves his own wife
alone, the potency is chaste. Now, since this love with such partakes not of the flesh, but
only of the spirit, therefore it is chaste; and as the beauty of the woman, from innate inclination,
enters at the same time into the mind, therefore the love is sweet." On hearing this, many
of the bystanders put their hands to their ears, saying, "What has been said offends our ears;
and what you have spoken is of no account with us." These spirits were unchaste. Then again
was heard the singing from heaven, and sweeter now than before; but to the unchaste it was
so grating and discordant that they hurried out of the theatre and fled, leaving behind them
only the few who from wisdom loved conjugial chastity.

56. THE SECOND MEMORABLE RELATION. As I was conversing with angels some time ago in the spiritual
world, I was inspired with a desire, attended with a pleasing satisfaction, to see the TEMPLE
OF WISDOM, which I had seen once before; and accordingly I asked them the way to it. They said,
"Follow the light and you will find it." I said, "What do you mean by following the light?"
They replied, "Our light grows brighter and brighter as we approach that temple; wherefore,
follow the light according to the increase of its brightness; for our light proceeds from the
Lord as a sun, and thence considered in itself is wisdom." I immediately directed my course,
in company with two angels, according to the increase of the brightness of the light, and ascending
by a steep path to the summit of a hill in the southern quarter. There we found a magnificent
gate, which the keeper, on seeing the angels with me, opened; and lo! we saw an avenue of palm-trees
and laurels, according to which we directed our course. It was a winding avenue, and terminated
in a garden, in the middle of which was the TEMPLE OF WISDOM. On arriving there, and looking
about me, I saw several small sacred buildings, resembling the temple, inhabited by the WISE.
We went towards one of them, and coming to the door accosted the person who dwelt there, and
told him the occasion and manner of our coming. He said, "You are welcome; enter and be seated,
and we will improve our acquaintance by discourses respecting wisdom." I viewed the building
within, and observed that it was divided into two, and still was but one; it was divided into
two by a transparent wall; but it appeared as one from its translucence, which was like that
of the purest crystal. I inquired the reason of this? He said, "I am not alone; my wife is
with me, and we are two; yet still we are not two, but one flesh." But I replied, "I know that
you are a wise one; and what has a wise one or a wisdom to do with a woman?" Hereupon our host,
becoming somewhat indignant, changed countenance, and beckoned his hand, and lo! instantly
other wise ones presented themselves from the neighboring buildings, to whom he said humorously,
"Our stranger here asks, 'What has a wise one or a wisdom to do with a woman?'" At this they
smiled and said, "What is a wise one or a wisdom without a woman, or without love, a wife being
the love of a wise man's wisdom?" Our host then said, "Let us now endeavor to improve our acquaintance
by some discourse respecting wisdom; and let it be concerning causes, and at present concerning
the cause of beauty in the female sex." Then they spoke in order; and the first assigned as
a cause, that women were created by the Lord's affections of the wisdom of men, and the affection
of wisdom is essential beauty. A second said, that the woman was created by the Lord through
the wisdom of the man, because from the man; and that hence she is a form of wisdom inspired
with love-affection; and since love-affection is essential life, a female is the life of wisdom,
whereas a male is wisdom; and the life of wisdom is essential beauty. A third said, that women
have a perception of the delights of conjugial love; and as their whole body is an organ of
that perception, it must needs be that the habitation of the delights of conjugial love, with
its perception, be beauty. A fourth assigned this cause; that the Lord took away from the man
beauty and elegance of life, and transferred it to the woman; and that hence the man, unless
he be re-united with his beauty and elegance in the woman, is stern, austere, joyless, and
unlovely; so one man is wise only for himself, and another is foolish; whereas, when a man
is united with his beauty and elegance of life in a wife, he becomes engaging, pleasant, active,
and lovely, and thereby wise. A fifth said, that women were created beauties, not for the sake
of themselves, but for the sake of the men; that men, who of themselves are hard, might be
made soft; that their minds, of themselves grave and severe, might become gentle and cheerful;
and that their hearts, of themselves cold, might be made warm; which effects take place when
they become one flesh with their wives. A sixth assigned as a cause, that the universe was
created by the Lord a most perfect work; but that nothing was created in it more perfect than
a beautiful and elegant woman, in order that man may give thanks to the Lord for his bounty
herein, and may repay it by the reception of wisdom from him. These and many other similar
observations having been made, the wife of our host appeared beyond the crystal wall, and said
to her husband, "Speak if you please;" and then when he spoke, the life of wisdom from the
wife was perceived in his discourse; for in the tone of his speech was her love: thus experience
testified to the truth. After this we took a view of the temple of wisdom, and also of the
paradisiacal scenes which encompassed it, and being thereby filled with joy, we departed, and
passed through the avenue to the gate, and descended by the way we had ascended.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON LOVE TRULY CONJUGIAL.

57. There are infinite varieties of conjugial love, it being in no two persons exactly similar.
It appears indeed as if it were similar with many; but this appearance arises from corporeal
judgement, which, being gross and dull, is little qualified to discern aright respecting it.
By corporeal judgement we mean the judgement of the mind from the evidence of the external
senses; but to those whose eyes are opened to see from the judgment of the spirit, the differences
are manifest; and more distinctly to those who are enabled to elevate the sight arising from
such judgement to a higher degree, which is effected by withdrawing it from the senses, and
exalting it into a superior light; these can at length confirm themselves in their understanding,
and thereby see that conjugial love is never exactly similar in any two persons. Nevertheless
no one can see the infinite varieties of this love in any light of the understanding however
elevated, unless he first know what is the nature and quality of that love in its very essence
and integrity, thus what was its nature and quality when, together with life, it was implanted
in man from God. Unless this its state, which was most perfect, be known, it is in vain to
attempt the discovery of its differences by any investigation; for there is no other fixed
point, from which as a first principle those differences may be deduced, and to which as the
focus of their direction they may be referred, and thus may appear truly and without fallacy.
This is the reason why we here undertake to describe that love in its essence; and as it was
in this essence when, together with life from God, it was infused into man, we undertake to
describe it such as it was in its primeval state; and as in this state it was truly conjugial,
therefore we have entitled this section, ON LOVE TRULY CONJUGIAL. The description of it shall
be given in the following order: I. There exists a love truly conjugial, which at this day
is so rare that it is not known what is its quality, and scarcely that it exists. II. This
love originates in the marriage of good and truth. III. There is a correspondence of this love
with the marriage of the Lord and the church. IV. This love from its origin and correspondence,
is celestial, spiritual, holy, pure, and clean, above every other love imparted by the Lord
to the angels of heaven and the men of the church. V. It is also the foundation love of all
celestial and spiritual loves, and thence of all natural loves. VI. Into this love are collected
all joys and delights from first to last. VII. None however come into this love, and can be
in it, but those who approach the Lord, and love the truths of the church and practise its
goods. VIII. This love was the love of loves with the ancients, who lived in the golden, silver,
and copper ages; but afterwards it successively departed. We now proceed to the explanation
of each article.

58. That there exists such conjugial love as is described in the following pages, may indeed
be acknowledged from the first state of that love, when it insinuates itself, and enters into
the hearts of a youth and a virgin; thus from its influence on those who begin to love one
alone of the sex, and to desire to be joined therewith in marriage; and still more at the time
of courtship and the interval which precedes the marriage-ceremony; and lastly during the marriage-ceremony
and some days after it. At such times who does not acknowledge and consent to the following
positions; that this love is the foundation of all loves, and also that into it are collected
all joys and delights from first to last? And who does not know that, after this season of
pleasure, the satisfactions thereof successively pass away and depart, till at length they
are scarcely sensible? In the latter case, if it be said as before, that this love is the foundation
of all loves, and that into it are collected all joys and delights, the positions are neither
agreed to nor acknowledged, and possibly it is asserted that they are nonsense or incomprehensible
mysteries. From these considerations it is evident, that primitive marriage love bears a resemblance
to love truly conjugial, and presents it to view in a certain image. The reason of which is,
because then the love of the sex, which is unchaste, is put away, and in its place the love
of one of the sex, which is truly conjugial and chaste, remains implanted: in this case, who
does not regard other women with indifference, and the one to whom he is united with love and
affection?

59. The reason why love truly conjugial is notwithstanding so rare, that its quality is not
known, and scarcely its existence, is, because the state of pleasurable gratifications before
and at the time of marriage, is afterwards changed into a state of indifference arising from
an insensibility to such gratifications. The causes of this change of state are too numerous
to be here adduced; but they shall be adduced in a future part of this work, when we come to
explain in their order the causes of coldnesses, separations, and divorces; from which it will
be seen, that with the generality at this day this image of conjugial love is so far abolished,
and with the image the knowledge thereof, that its quality and even its existence are scarcely
known. It is well known, that every man by birth is merely corporeal, and that from corporeal
he becomes natural more and more interiorly, and thus rational, and at length spiritual. The
reason why this is effected progressively is, because the corporeal principle is like ground,
wherein things natural, rational, and spiritual are implanted in their order; thus a man becomes
more and more a man. The case is nearly similar when he enters into marriage; on this occasion
a man becomes a more complete man, because he is joined with a consort, with whom he acts as
one man: but this, in the first state spoken of above, is effected only in a sort of image:
in like manner he then commences from what is corporeal, and proceeds to what is natural as
to conjugial life, and thereby to a conjunction into a one. Those who, in this case, love corporeal
natural things, and rational things only as grounded therein, cannot be conjoined to a consort
as into a one, except as to those externals: and when those externals fail, cold takes possession
of the internals; in consequence whereof the delights of that love are dispersed and driven
away, as from the mind so from the body, and afterwards as from the body so from the mind;
and this until there is nothing left of the remembrance of the primeval state of their marriage,
consequently no knowledge respecting it. Now since this is the case with the generality of
persons at this day, it is evident that love truly conjugial is not known as to its quality,
and scarcely as to its existence. It is otherwise with those who are spiritual. With them the
first state is an initiation into lasting satisfactions, which advance in degree, in proportion
as the spiritual rational principle of the mind, and thence the natural sensual principle of
the body, in each party, conjoin and unite themselves with the same principles in the other
party; but such instances are rare.

60. II. THIS LOVE ORIGINATES IN THE MARRIAGE OF GOOD AND TRUTH. That all things in the universe
have relation to good and truth, is acknowledged by every intelligent man, because it is a
universal truth; that likewise in every thing in the universe good is conjoined with truth,
and truth with good, cannot but be acknowledged, because this also is a universal truth, which
agrees with the former. The reason why all things in the universe have relation to good and
truth, and why good is conjoined with truth, and truth with good, is, because each proceeds
from the Lord, and they proceed from him as a one. The two things which proceed from the Lord,
are love and wisdom, because these are himself, thus from himself; and all things relating
to love are called good, or goods, and all things relating to wisdom are called true, or truths;
and as these two proceed from him as the creator, it follows that they are in the things created.
This may be illustrated by heat and light which proceed from the sun: from them all things
appertaining to the earth are derived, which germinate according to their presence and conjunction;
and natural heat corresponds to spiritual heat, which is love, as natural light corresponds
to spiritual light, which is wisdom.

61. That conjugial love proceeds from the marriage of good and truth, will be shewn in the
following section or paragraph: It is mentioned here only with a view of shewing that this
love is celestial, spiritual, and holy, because it is from a celestial, spiritual, and holy
origin. In order to see that the origin of conjugial love is from the marriage of good and
truth, it may be expedient in this place briefly to premise somewhat on the subject. It was
said just above, that in every created thing there exists a conjunction of good and truth;
and there is no conjunction unless it be reciprocal; for conjunction on one part, and not on
the other in its turn, is dissolved of itself. Now as there is a conjunction of good and truth,
and this is reciprocal, it follows that there is a truth of good, or truth grounded in good,
and that there is a good of truth, or good grounded in truth; that the truth of good, or truth
grounded in good, is in the male, and that it is the very essential male (or masculine) principle,
and that the good of truth, or good grounded in truth, is in the female, and that it is the
very essential female (or feminine) principle; also that there is a conjugial union between
those two, will be seen in the following section: it is here only mentioned in order to give
some preliminary idea on the subject.

62. III. THERE IS A CORRESPONDENCE OF THIS LOVE WITH THE MARRIAGE OF THE LORD AND THE CHURCH;
that is, that as the Lord loves the church, and is desirous that the church should love him,
so a husband and a wife mutually love each other. That there is a correspondence herein, is
well known in the Christian world: but the nature of that correspondence as yet is not known;
therefore we will explain it presently in a particular paragraph. It is here mentioned in order
to shew that conjugial love is celestial, spiritual, and holy, because it corresponds to the
celestial, spiritual, and holy marriage of the Lord and the church. This correspondence also
follows as a consequence of conjugial love's originating in the marriage of good and truth,
spoken of in the preceding article; because the marriage of good and truth constitutes the
church with man: for the marriage of good and truth is the same as the marriage of charity
and faith; since good relates to charity, and truth to faith. That this marriage constitutes
the church must at once be acknowledged, because it is a universal truth; and every universal
truth is acknowledged as soon as it is heard, in consequence of the Lord's influx and at the
same time of the confirmation of heaven. Now since the church is the Lord's, because it is
from him, and since conjugial love corresponds to the marriage of the Lord and the church,
it follows that this love is from the Lord.

63. But in what manner the church from the Lord is formed with two married partners, and how
conjugial love is formed thereby, shall be illustrated in the paragraph spoken of above: we
will at present only observe, that the church from the Lord is formed in the husband, and through
the husband in the wife; and that when it is formed in each, it is a full church; for in this
case is effected a full conjunction of good and truth; and the conjunction of good and truth
constitutes the church. That the uniting inclination, which is conjugial love, is in a similar
degree with the conjunction of good and truth, which is the church, will be proved by convincing
arguments in what follows in the series.

64. That such is the nature and quality of conjugial love from its origin, which is the marriage
of good and truth, was briefly shewn above; but the subject was then barely touched upon: in
like manner that such is the nature and quality of that love, from its correspondence with
the marriage of the Lord and the church. These two marriages, from which conjugial love, as
a slip or shoot, descends, are essentially holy, therefore if it be received from its author,
the Lord, holiness from him follows of consequence, which continually cleanses and purifies
it: in this case, if there be in the man's will a desire and tendency to it, this love becomes
daily and continually cleaner and purer. Conjugial love is called celestial and spiritual because
it is with the angels of heaven; celestial, as with the angels of the highest heaven, these
being called celestial angels; and spiritual, as with the angels beneath that heaven, these
being called spiritual angels. Those angels are so called, because the celestial are loves,
and thence wisdoms, and the spiritual are wisdoms and thence loves; similar thereto is their
conjugial principle. Now as conjugial love is with the angels of both the superior and the
inferior heavens, as was also shewn in the first paragraph concerning marriages in heaven,
it is manifest that it is holy and pure. The reason why this love in its essence, considered
in regard to its origin, is holy and pure above every other love with angels and men, is, because
it is as it were the head of the other loves: concerning its excellence something shall be
said in the following article.

65. V. IT IS ALSO THE FOUNDATION LOVE OF ALL CELESTIAL AND SPIRITUAL LOVES, AND THENCE OF ALL
NATURAL LOVES. The reason why conjugial love considered in its essence is the foundation love
of all the loves of heaven and the church, is, because it originates in the marriage of good
and truth, and from this marriage proceed all the loves which constitute heaven and the church
with man: the good of this marriage constitutes love, and its truth constitutes wisdom; and
when love draws near to wisdom, or joins itself therewith, then love becomes love; and when
wisdom in its turn draws near to love, and joins itself therewith, then wisdom becomes wisdom.
Love truly conjugial is the conjunction of love and wisdom. Two married partners, between or
in whom this love subsists, are an image and form of it: all likewise in the heavens, where
faces are the genuine types of the affections of every one's love, are likenesses of it; for,
as was shewn above, it pervades them in the whole and in every part. Now as two married partners
are an image and form of this love, it follows that every love which proceeds from the form
of essential love itself, is a resemblance thereof; therefore if conjugial love be celestial
and spiritual, the loves proceeding from it are also celestial and spiritual. Conjugial love
therefore is as a parent, and all other loves are as the offspring. Hence it is, that from
the marriages of the angels in the heavens are produced spiritual offspring, which are those
of love and wisdom, or of good and truth; concerning which production, see above, n. 51, 52.

66. The same is evident from man's having been created for this love, and from his formation
afterwards by means of it. The male was created to become wisdom grounded in the love of growing
wise, and the female was created to become the love of the male grounded in his wisdom, and
consequently was formed according thereto; from which consideration it is manifest, that two
married partners are the very forms and images of the marriage of love and wisdom, or of good
and truth. It is well to be observed, that there is not any good or truth which is not in a
substance as in its subject: there are no abstract goods and truths; for, having no abode or
habitation, they no where exist, neither can they appear as airy unfixed principles; therefore
in such case they are mere entities, concerning which reason seems to itself to think abstractedly;
but still it cannot conceive of them except as annexed to subjects: for every human idea, however
elevated, is substantial, that is, affixed to substances. It is moreover to be observed, that
there is no substance without a form; an unformed substance not being any thing, because nothing
can be predicated of it; and a subject without predicates is also an entity which has no existence
in reason. These philosophical considerations are adduced in order to shew still more clearly,
that two married partners who are principled in love truly conjugial, are actually forms of
the marriage of good and truth, or of love and wisdom.

67. Since natural loves flow from spiritual, and spiritual from celestial, therefore it is
said that conjugial love is the foundation love of all celestial and spiritual loves, and thence
of all natural loves. Natural loves relate to the loves of self and of the world; spiritual
loves to love towards the neighbour; and celestial loves to love to the Lord; and such as are
the relations of the loves, it is evident in what order they follow and are present with man.
When they are in this order, then the natural loves live from the spiritual, and the spiritual
from the celestial, and all in this order from the Lord, in whom they originate.

68. VI. INTO THIS LOVE ARE COLLECTED ALL JOYS AND DELIGHTS FROM FIRST TO LAST. All delights
whatever, of which a man (homo) has any perception, are delights of his love; the love manifesting
itself, yea, existing and living thereby. It is well known that the delights are exalted in
proportion as the love is exalted, and also in proportion as the incident affections touch
the ruling love more nearly. Now as conjugial love is the foundation love of all good loves,
and as it is inscribed on all the parts and principles of man, even the most particular, as
was shewn above, it follows that its delights exceed the delights of all other loves, and also
that it gives delight to the other loves, according to its presence and conjunction with them;
for it expands the inmost principles of the mind, and at the same time the inmost principles
of the body, as the delicious current of its fountain flows through and opens them. That delights
follow use, and are also communicated to man according to the love thereof, is manifest from
the delights of the five senses, seeing, hearing, smelling, taste, and touch: each of these
has its delights with variations according to the specific uses of each; what then must be
the delight annexed to the sense of conjugial love, the use of which comprehends all other uses?

69. I am aware that few will acknowledge that all joys and delights from first to last are
collected into conjugial love; because love truly conjugial, into which they are collected,
is at this day so rare that its quality is not known, and scarcely its existence, agreeably
to what was explained and confirmed above, n. 58, 59; for such joys and delights exist only
in genuine conjugial love; and as this is so rare on earth, it is impossible to describe its
super-eminent felicities any otherwise than from the mouth of angels, because they are principled
in it. They have declared, that the inmost delights of this love, which are delights of the
soul, into which the conjugial principle of love and wisdom, or of good and truth from the
Lord, first flows, are imperceptible and thence ineffable, because they are the delights of
peace and innocence conjointly; but that in their descent they become more and more perceptible;
in the superior principles of the mind as beatitudes, in the inferior as satisfactions, in
the breast as delights thence derived; and that from the breast they diffuse themselves into
every part of the body, and at length unite themselves in ultimates and become the delight
of delights. Moreover the angels have related wonderful things respecting these delights; adding
further, that their varieties in the souls of conjugial pairs, and from their souls in their
minds, and from their minds in their breasts, are infinite and also eternal; that they are
exalted according to the prevalence of wisdom with the husband; and this, because they live
to eternity in the bloom of their age, and because they know no greater blessedness than to
grow wiser and wiser. But a fuller account of these delights, as given by the angels, may be
seen in the MEMORABLE RELATIONS, especially in those added to some of the following chapters.

70. VII. NONE HOWEVER COME INTO THIS LOVE, AND CAN REMAIN IN IT, BUT THOSE WHO APPROACH THE
LORD, AND LOVE THE TRUTHS OF THE CHURCH AND PRACTISE ITS GOODS. The reason why none come into
that love but those who approach the Lord, is, because monogamical marriages, which are of
one husband with one wife, correspond to the marriage of the Lord and the church, and because
such marriages originate in the marriage of good and truth; on which subject, see above, n.
60 and 62. That from this origin and correspondence it follows, that love truly conjugial is
from the Lord, and exists only with those who come directly to him, cannot be fully confirmed
unless these two arcana be specifically treated of, as shall be done in the chapters which
immediately follow; one of which will treat on the origin of conjugial love as derived from
the marriage of good and truth, and the other on the marriage of the Lord and the church, and
on its correspondence. That it hence follows, that, conjugial love with man (homo) is according
to the state of the church with him, will also be seen in those chapters.

71. It is not however possible that any love should become perfectly pure either with men or
with angels; consequently neither can this love: nevertheless, since the intention of the will
is what the Lord principally regards, therefore so far as any one is in this intention, and
perseveres in it, so far he is initiated into its purity and sanctity, and successively advances
therein. The reason why none can be principled in spiritual conjugial love, but those who are
of the above description by virtue of conjunction with the Lord, is, because heaven is in this
love; and the natural man, whose conjugial love derives its pleasure only from the flesh, cannot
approach to heaven nor to any angel, no, nor to any man principled in this love, it being the
foundation of all celestial and spiritual loves; which may be seen above, n. 65-67. That this
is the case, has been confirmed to me by experience. I have seen genii in the spiritual world,
who were in a state of preparation for hell, approaching to an angel while he was being entertained
by his consort; and at a distance, as they approached, they became like furies, and sought
out caverns and ditches as asylums, into which they cast themselves. That wicked spirits love
what is similar to their affection, however unclean it is, and hold in aversion the spirits
of heaven, as what is dissimilar, because it is pure, may be concluded from what was said in
the PRELIMINARY MEMORABLE RELATION, n. 10.

72. The reason why those who love the truths of the church and practise its goods, come into
this love and are capable of remaining in it, is, because no others are received by the Lord;
for these are in conjunction with him, and thereby are capable of being kept in that love by
influence from him. The two constituents of the church and heaven in man (homo) are the truth
of faith and the good of life; the truth of faith constitutes the Lord's presence, and the
good of life according to the truths of faith constitutes conjunction with him, and thereby
the church and heaven. The reason why the truth of faith constitutes the Lord's presence, is,
because it relates to light, spiritual light being nothing else; and the reason why the good
of life constitutes conjunction, is, because it relates to heat; and spiritual heat is nothing
but the good of life, for it is love; and the good of life originates in love; and it is well
known, that all light, even that of winter, causes presence, and that heat united to light
causes conjunction; for gardens and shrubberies appear in all degrees of light, but they do
not bear flowers and fruits unless when heat joins itself to light. From these considerations
the conclusion is obvious, that those are not gifted by the Lord with love truly conjugial,
who merely know the truths of the church, but those who know them and practise their good.

73. That conjugial love was the love of loves with the most ancient and the ancient people,
who lived in the ages thus named, cannot be known from historical records, because their writings
are not extant; and there is no account given of them except by writers in succeeding ages,
who mention them, and describe the purity and integrity of their lives, and also the successive
decrease of such purity and integrity, resembling the debasement of gold to iron: but an account
of the last or iron age, which commenced from the time of those writers, may in some measure
be gathered from the historical records of the lives of some of their kings, judges, and wise
men, who were called sophi in Greece and other countries. That this age however should not
endure, as iron endures in itself, but that it should be like iron mixed with clay, which do
not cohere, is foretold by Daniel, chap. ii. 43. Now as the golden, silver, and copper ages
passed away before the time when writing came into use, and thus it is impossible on earth
to acquire any knowledge concerning their marriages, it has pleased the Lord to unfold to me
such knowledge by a spiritual way, by conducting me to the heavens inhabited by those most
ancient people, that I might learn from their own mouths the nature and quality of their marriages
during their abode here on earth in their several ages: for all, who from the beginning of
creation have departed by death out of the natural world, are in the spiritual world, and as
to their loves resemble what they were when alive in the natural world, and continue such to
eternity. As the particulars of this knowledge are worthy to be known and related, and tend
to confirm the sanctity of marriages, I am desirous to make them public as they were shown
me in the spirit when awake, and were afterwards recalled to my remembrance by an angel, and
thus described. And as they are from the spiritual world, like the other accounts annexed to
each chapter, I am desirous to arrange them so as to form six MEMORABLE RELATIONS according
to the progressions of the several periods of time.

       *       *       *       *       *

74. THESE SIX MEMORABLE RELATIONS from the spiritual world, concerning conjugial love, discover
the nature and quality of that love in the earliest times and afterwards, and also at the present
day; whence it appears that that love has successively fallen away from its sanctity and purity,
until it became adulterous; but that nevertheless there is a hope of its being brought back
again to its primeval or ancient sanctity.

75. THE FIRST MEMORABLE RELATION. On a time, while I was meditating on conjugial love, my mind
was seized with a desire of knowing what had been the nature and quality of that love among
those who lived in the GOLDEN AGE, and afterwards among those who lived in the following ages,
which have their names from silver, copper, and iron: and as I knew that all who lived well
in those ages are in the heavens, I prayed to the Lord that I might be allowed to converse
with them and be informed: and lo! an angel presented himself and said, "I am sent by the Lord
to be your guide and companion: I will first lead and attend you to those who lived in the
first age or period of time, which is called golden:" and he said, "The way to them is difficult;
it lies through a shady forest, which none can pass unless he receive a guide from the Lord."
I was in the spirit, and prepared myself for the journey; and we turned our faces towards the
east; and as we advanced I saw a mountain, whose height extended beyond the region of the clouds.
We passed a great wilderness, and came to the forest planted with various kinds of trees and
rendered shady by their thickness, of which the angel had advertised me. The forest was divided
by several narrow paths; and the angel said, that according to the number of those paths are
the windings and intricacies of error: and that unless his eyes were opened by the Lord, so
as to see olives entwined with vine tendrils, and his steps were directed from olive to olive,
the traveller would miss his way, and fall into the abodes of Tartarus, which are round about
at the sides. This forest is of such a nature, to the end that the passage may be guarded;
for none but a primeval nation dwells upon that mountain. After we had entered the forest,
our eyes were opened, and we saw here and there olives entwined with vines, from which hung
bunches of grapes of a blue or azure color, and the olives were ranged in continual wreaths;
we therefore made various circuits as they presented themselves to our view; and at length
we saw a grove of tall cedars and some eagles perched on their branches; on seeing which the
angel said, "We are now on the mountain not far from its summit:" so we went forward, and lo!
behind the grove was a circular plain, where there were feeding he and she-lambs, which were
representative forms of the state of innocence and peace of the inhabitants of the mountain.
We passed over this plain, and lo! we saw tabernacles, to the number of several thousands in
front on each side in every direction as far as the eye could reach. And the angel said, "We
are now in the camp, where are the armies of the Lord Jehovah; for so they call themselves
and their habitations. These most ancient people, while they were in the world, dwelt in tabernacles;
therefore now also they dwell in the same. But let us bend our way to the south, where the
wiser of them live, that we may meet some one to converse with." In going along I saw at a
distance three boys and three girls sitting at a door of a certain tent; but as we approached,
the boys and girls appeared like men and women of a middle stature. The angel then said, "All
the inhabitants of this mountain appear at a distance like infants, because they are in a state
of innocence; and infancy is the appearance of innocence." The men on seeing us hastened towards
us and said, "Whence are you; and how came you here? Your faces are not like those of our mountain."
But the angel in reply told them how, by permission, we had had access through the forest,
and what was the cause of our coming. On hearing this, one of the three men invited and introduced
us into his tabernacle. The man was dressed in a blue robe and a tunic of white wool: and his
wife had on a purple gown, with a stomacher under it of fine linen wrought in needle-work.
And as my thought was influenced by a desire of knowing the state of marriages among the most
ancient people, I looked by turns on the husband and the wife, and observed as it were a unity
of their souls in their faces; and I said, "You are one:" and the man answered, "We are one;
her life is in me, and mine in her; we are two bodies, but one soul: the union between us is
like that of the two viscera in the breast, which are called the heart and the lungs; she is
my heart and I am her lungs; but as by the heart we here mean love, and by the lungs wisdom,
she is the love of my wisdom, and I am the wisdom of her love; therefore her love from without
veils my wisdom, and my wisdom from within enters into her love: hence, as you said, there
is an appearance of the unity of our souls in our faces." I then asked, "If such a union exists,
is it possible for you to look at any other woman than your own?" He replied, "It is possible
but as my wife is united to my soul, we both look together, and in this case nothing of lust
can enter; for while I behold the wives of others, I behold them by my own wife, whom alone
I love: and as my own wife has a perception of all my inclinations, she, as an intermediate,
directs my thoughts and removes every thing discordant, and therewith impresses cold and horror
at every thing unchaste; therefore it is as impossible for us to look unchastely at the wife
of any other of our society, as it is to look from the shades of Tartarus to the light of our
heaven therefore neither have we any idea of thought, and still less any expression of speech,
to denote the allurements of libidinous love." He could not pronounce the word whoredom, because
the chastity of their heaven forbade it. Hereupon my conducting angel said to me, "You hear
now that the speech of the angels of this heaven is the speech of wisdom, because they speak
from causes." After this, as I looked around, I saw their tabernacle as it were overlaid with
gold; and I asked, "Whence is this?" He replied, "It is in consequence of a flaming light,
which, like gold, glitters, irradiates, and glances on the curtains of our tabernacle while
we are conversing about conjugial love; for the heat from our sun, which in its essence is
love, on such occasions bares itself, and tinges the light, which in its essence is wisdom,
with its golden color; and this happens because conjugial love in its origin is the sport of
wisdom and love; for the man was born to be wisdom, and the woman to be the love of the man's
wisdom: hence spring the delights of that sport, in and derived from conjugial love between
us and our wives. We have seen clearly for thousands of years in our heaven, that those delights,
as to quantity, degree, and intensity, are excellent and eminent according to our worship of
the Lord Jehovah, from whom flows that heavenly union or marriage, which is the union and marriage
of love and wisdom." As he said this, I saw a great light upon the hill in the middle of the
tabernacles; and I inquired, "Whence is that light?" And he said, "It is from the sanctuary
of the tabernacle of our worship." I asked whether I might approach it; to which he assented.
I approached therefore, and saw the tabernacle without and within, answering exactly to the
description of the tabernacle which was built for the sons of Israel in the wilderness; the
form of which was shewed to Moses on Mount Sinai, Exod. xxv. 40; chap. xxvi. 30. I then asked,
"What is within in that sanctuary, from which so great a light proceeds?" He replied, "It is
a tablet with this inscription, THE COVENANT BETWEEN JEHOVAH AND THE HEAVENS:" he said no more.
And as by this time we were ready to depart, I asked, "Did any of you, during your abode in
the natural world, live with more than one wife?" He replied, "I know not one; for we could
not think of more. We have been told by those who had thought of more, that instantly the heavenly
blessedness of their souls withdrew from their inmost principles to the extreme parts of their
bodies, even to the nails, and together therewith the honorable badges of manhood; when this
was perceived they were banished the land." On saying this, the man ran to his tabernacle,
and returned with a pomegranate, in which there was abundance of seeds of gold: and he gave
it me, and I brought it away with me, as a sign that we had been with those who had lived in
the golden age. And then, after a salutation of peace, we took our leave, and returned home.

76. THE SECOND MEMORABLE RELATION. The next day the same angel came to me, and said, "Do you
wish me to lead and attend you to the people who lived in the SILVER AGE OR PERIOD, that we
may hear from them concerning the marriages of their time?" And he added, "Access to these
also can only be obtained by the Lord's favor and protection." I was in the spirit as before,
and accompanied my conductor. We first came to a hill on the confines between the east and
the south; and while we were ascending it, he shewed me a great extent of country: we saw at
a distance an eminence like a mountain, between which and the hill on which we stood was a
valley, and behind the valley a plain, and from the plain a rising ground of easy ascent. We
descended the hill intending to pass through the valley, and we saw here and there on each
side pieces of wood and stone, carved into the figures of men, and of various beasts, birds,
and fishes; and I asked the angel what they meant, and whether they were idols? He replied,
"By no means: they are representative forms of various moral virtues and spiritual truths.
The people of that age were acquainted with the science of correspondences; and as every man,
beast, bird, and fish, corresponds to some quality, therefore each particular carved figure
represents partially some virtue or truth, and several together represent virtue itself, or
truth, in a common extended form. These are what in Egypt were called hieroglyphics." We proceeded
through the valley, and as we entered the plain, lo! we saw horses and chariots; horses variously
harnessed and caparisoned, and chariots of different forms; some carved in the shape of eagles,
some like whales, and some like stags with horns, and like unicorns; and likewise beyond them
some carts, and stables round about at the sides; and as we approached, both horses and chariots
disappeared, and instead thereof we saw men (homines), in pairs, walking, talking, and reasoning.
And the angel said to me, "The different species of horses, chariots, and stables, seen at
a distance, are appearances of the rational intelligence of the men of that period; for a horse,
by correspondence, signifies the understanding of truth, a chariot, its doctrine, and stables,
instructions: you know that in this world all things appear according to correspondences."
But we passed by these things, and ascended by a long acclivity, and at length saw a city,
which we entered; and in walking through the streets and places of public resort, we viewed
the houses: they were so many palaces built of marble, having steps of alabaster in front,
and at the sides of the steps pillars of jasper: we saw also temples of precious stone of a
sapphire and lazure color. And the angel said to me, "Their houses are of stone, because stones
signify natural truths, and precious stones spiritual truths; and all those who lived in the
silver age had intelligence grounded in spiritual truths, and thence in natural truths: silver
also has a similar signification." In taking a view of the city, we saw here and there consorts
in pairs: and as they were husbands and wives, we expected that some of them would invite us
to their houses; and while we were in this expectation, as we were passing by, we were invited
by two into their house, and we ascended the steps and entered; and the angel, taking upon
him the part of speaker, explained to them the occasion of our coming to this heaven; informing
them that it was for the sake of instruction concerning marriages among the ancients, "of whom,"
says he, "you in this heaven are a part." They said, "We were from a people in Asia; and the
chief pursuit of our age was the truths whereby we had intelligence. This was the occupation
of our souls and minds; but our bodily senses were engaged in representations of truths in
form; and the science of correspondences conjoined the sensual things of our bodies with the
perceptions of our minds, and procured us intelligence." On hearing this, the angel asked them
to give some account of their marriages: and the husband said, "There is a correspondence between
spiritual marriage, which is that of truth with good, and natural marriage, which is that of
a man with one wife; and as we have studied correspondences, we have seen that the church,
with its truths and goods, cannot at all exist but with those who live in love truly conjugial
with one wife: for the marriage of good and truth constitutes the church with man: therefore
all we in this heaven say, that the husband is truth, and the wife the good thereof; and that
good cannot love any truth but its own, neither can truth in return love any good but its own:
if any other were loved, internal marriage, which constitutes the church, would perish, and
there would remain only external marriage, to which idolatry, and not the church, corresponds;
therefore marriage with one wife we call sacrimony; but if it should have place with more than
one among us, we should call it sacrilege." As he said this, we were introduced into an ante-chamber,
where there were several devices on the walls, and little images as it were of molten silver;
and I inquired, "What are these?" They said, "They are pictures and forms representative of
several qualities, characters, and delights, relating to conjugial love. These represent unity
of souls, these conjunction of minds, these harmony of bosoms, these the delights thence arising."
While we were viewing these things, we saw as it were a rainbow on the wall, consisting of
three colors, purple (or red), blue and white; and we observed how the purple passed the blue,
and tinged the white with an azure color, and that the latter color flowed back through the
blue into the purple, and elevated the purple into a kind of flaming lustre: and the husband
said to me, "Do you understand all this?" I replied, "Instruct me:" and he said, "The purple
color, from its correspondence, signifies the conjugial love of the wife, the white the intelligence
of the husband, the blue the beginning of conjugial love in the husband's perception from the
wife, and the azure, with which the white was tinged, signifies conjugial love in this case
in the husband; and this latter color flowing back through the blue into the purple, and elevating
the purple into a kind of flaming lustre, signifies the conjugial love of the husband flowing
back to the wife. Such things are represented on these walls, while from meditating on conjugial
love, its mutual, successive, and simultaneous union, we view with eager attention the rainbows
which are there painted." Hereupon I observed, "These things are more than mystical at this
day; for they are appearances representative of the arcana of the conjugial love of one man
with one wife." He replied, "They are so; yet to us in our heaven they are not arcana, and
consequently neither are they mystical." As he said this, there appeared at a distance a chariot
drawn by small white horses; on seeing which the angel said, "That chariot is a sign for us
to take our leave;" and then, as we were descending the steps, our host gave us a bunch of
white grapes hanging to the vine leaves: and lo! the leaves became silver; and we brought them
down with us for a sign that we had conversed with the people of the silver age.

77. THE THIRD MEMORABLE RELATION. The next day, my conducting and attendant angel came to me
and said, "Make ready, and let us go to the heavenly inhabitants in the west, who are from
the men that lived in the third period, or in the copper age. Their dwellings are from the
south by the west towards the north; but they do not reach into the north." Having made myself
ready, I attended him, and we entered their heaven on the southern quarter. There was a magnificent
grove of palm trees and laurels. We passed through this, and immediately on the confines of
the west we saw giants, double the size of ordinary men. They asked us, "Who let you in through
the grove?" The angel said, "The God of heaven." They replied, "We are guards to the ancient
western heaven; but pass on." We passed on, and from a rising ground we saw a mountain rising
to the clouds, and between us and the mountain a number of villages, with gardens, groves,
and plains intermixed. We passed through the villages and came to the mountain, which we ascended;
and lo! its summit was not a point but a plain, on which was a spacious and extensive city.
All the houses of the city were built of the wood of the pine-tree, and their roofs consisted
of joists or rafters; and I asked, "Why are the houses here built of wood?" The angel replied,
"Because wood signifies natural good; and the men of the third age of the earth were principled
in this good; and as copper also signifies natural good, therefore the age in which they lived
the ancients named from copper. Here are also sacred buildings constructed of the wood of the
olive, and in the middle of them is the sanctuary, where is deposited in an ark the Word that
was given to the inhabitants of Asia before the Israelitish Word; the historical books of which
are called the WARS OF JEHOVAH, and the prophetic books, ENUNCIATIONS; both mentioned by Moses,
Numb. xxi. verses 14, 15, and 27-30. This Word at this day is lost in the kingdoms of Asia,
and is only preserved in Great Tartary." Then the angel led me to one of the sacred buildings,
which we looked into, and saw in the middle of it the sanctuary, the whole in the brightest
light; and the angel said, "This light is from that ancient Asiatic Word: for all divine truth
in the heavens gives forth light." As we were leaving the sacred building, we were informed
that it had been reported in the city that two strangers had arrived there; and that they were
to be examined as to whence they came, and what was their business; and immediately one of
the public officers came running towards us, and took us for examination before the judges:
and on being asked whence we came, and what was our business, we replied, "We have passed the
grove of palm-trees, and also the abodes of the giants, the guards of your heaven, and afterwards
the region of villages; from which circumstances you may conclude, that we have not come here
of ourselves, but by direction of the God of heaven. The business on which we are come is,
to be instructed concerning your marriages, whether they are monogamical or polygamical." and
they said, "What are polygamical marriages? Are not they adulterous?" And immediately the bench
of judges deputed an intelligent person to instruct us in his own house on this point: and
when we were come to his house, he set his wife by his side, and spoke as follows: "We are
in possession of precepts concerning marriages, which have been handed down to us from the
primeval or most ancient people, who were principled in love truly conjugial, and thereby excelled
all others in the virtue and potency of that love while they were in the world, and who are
now in a most blessed state in their heaven, which is in the east. We are their posterity,
and they, as fathers, have given us, their sons, rules of life, among which is the following
concerning marriages: 'Sons, if you are desirous to love God and your neighbour, and to become
wise and happy to eternity, we counsel you to live married to one wife; if you depart from
this precept, all heavenly love will depart from you, and therewith internal wisdom; and you
will be banished.' This precept of our Fathers we have obeyed as sons, and have perceived its
truth, which is, that so far as any one loves his conjugial partner alone, so far he becomes
celestial and internal, and that so far as any one does not love his married partner alone,
so far he becomes natural and external; and in this case he loves only himself and the images
of his own mind, and is doating and foolish. From these considerations, all of us in this heaven
live married to one wife; and this being the case, all the borders of our heaven are guarded
against polygamists, adulterers, and whoremongers; if polygamists invade us, they are cast
out into the darkness of the north; if adulterers, they are cast out into fires of the west;
and if whoremongers, they are cast out into the delusive lights of the south." On hearing this,
I asked, "What he meant by the darkness of the north, the fires of the west, and the delusive
lights of the south?" He answered, "The darkness of the north is dulness of mind and ignorance
of truths; the fires of the west are the loves of evil; and the delusive lights of the south
are the falsifications of truth, which are spiritual whoredoms." After this, he said, "Follow
me to our repository of curiosities:" so we followed him, and he shewed us the writings of
the most ancient people, which were on the tables of wood and stone, and afterwards on smooth
blocks of wood; the writings of the second age were on sheets of parchment; of these he brought
me a sheet, on which were copied the rules of the people of the first age from their tables
of stone, among which also was the precept concerning marriages. Having seen these and other
ancient curiosities, the angel said, "It is now time for us to take our leave;" and immediately
our host went into the garden, and plucked some twigs off a tree, and bound them into a little
bunch, and gave them to us, saying, "These twigs are from a tree, which is native of or peculiar
to our heaven, and whose juice has a balsamic fragrance." We brought the bunch down with us,
and descended by the eastern way, which was not guarded; and lo! the twigs were changed into
shining brass, and the upper ends of them into gold, as a sign that we had been with the people
of the third age, which is named from copper or brass.

78. THE FOURTH MEMORABLE RELATIONS. After two days the angel again addressed me, saying, "Let
us complete the period of the ages; the last still remains, which is named from IRON. The people
of this age dwell in the north on the side of the west, in the inner parts or breadth-ways:
they are all from the old inhabitants of Asia, who were in possession of the ancient Word,
and thence derived their worship; consequently they were before the time of our Lord's coming
into the world. This is evident from the writings of the ancients, in which those times are
so named. 32, 33." These particulars the angel related to me in the way, which was contracted
and anticipated by changes of state induced in our minds according to the genius or disposition
of the inhabitants whom we passed; for spaces and consequent distances in the spiritual world
are appearances according to the state of their minds. When we raised our eyes, lo! we were
in a forest consisting of beeches, chestnut-trees and oaks: and on looking around us, there
appeared bears to the left, and leopards to the right: and when I wondered at this, the angel
said, "They are neither bears nor leopards, but men, who guard these inhabitants of the north;
by their nostrils they have a scent of the sphere of life of those who pass by, and they rush
violently on all who are spiritual, because the inhabitants are natural. Those who only read
the Word, and imbibe thence nothing of doctrine, appear at a distance like bears; and those
who confirm false principles thence derived, appear like leopards." On seeing us, they turned
away, and we proceeded. Beyond the forest there appeared thickets, and afterwards fields of
grass divided into areas, bordered with box: this was succeeded by a declivity which led to
a valley, wherein were several cities. We passed some of them, and entered into one of a considerable
size: its streets were irregular, and so were the houses, which were built of brick, with beams
between, and plastered. In the places of public resort were consecrated buildings of hewn lime-stone;
the under-structure of which was below the ground, and the super-structure above. We went down
into one of them by three steps, and saw on the walls idols of various forms, and a crowd on
their knees paying adoration to them: in the middle of the building was a company, above whom
might be seen the head of the tutelary god of that city. As we went out, the angel said to
me, "Those idols, with the ancients who lived in the silver age, as above described, were images
representative of spiritual truths and moral virtues; and when the science of correspondence
was forgotten and extinct, they first became objects of worship, and afterwards were adored
as deities: hence came idolatry." When we were come out of the consecrated building, we made
our observations on the men and their dress. Their faces were like steel, of a grayish color,
and they were dressed like comedians, with napkins about their loins hanging from a tunic buttoned
close at the breast; and on their heads they wore curled caps like sailors. But the angel said,
"Enough of this; let us seek some instruction concerning the marriages of the people of this
age." We then entered into the house of one of the grandees, who wore on his head a high cap.
He received us kindly, and said, "Come in and let us converse together." We entered into the
vestibule, and there seated ourselves; and I asked him about the marriages of his city and
country. He said, "We do not here live with one wife, but some with two or three, and some
with more, because we are delighted with variety, obedience, and honor, as marks of dignity;
and these we receive from our wives according to their number. With one wife there would be
no delight arising from variety; but disgust from sameness: neither would there be any flattering
courteousness arising from obedience, but a troublesome disquietude from equality; neither
would there be any satisfaction arising from dominion and the honor thence derived, but vexation
from wrangling about superiority. And what is a woman? Is she not born subject to man's will;
to serve, and not to domineer? Wherefore in this place every husband in his own house enjoys
as it were royal dignity; and as this is suited to our love, it constitutes also the blessedness
of our life." But I asked, "In such case, what becomes of conjugial love, which from two souls
makes one, and joins minds together, and renders a man (homo) blessed? This love cannot be
divided; for if it be it becomes a heat which effervesces and passes away." To this he replied,
"I do not understand what you say; what else renders a man (homo) blessed, but the emulation
of wives contending for the honor of the first place in the husband's favor?" As he said this,
a man entered into the women's apartment and opened the two doors; whence there issued a libidinous
effluvium, which had a stench like mire; this arose from polygamical love, which is connubial,
and at the same time adulterous; so I rose and shut the doors. Afterwards I said, "How can
you subsist upon this earth, when you are void of any love truly conjugial, and also when you
worship idols?" He replied, "As to connubial love, we are so jealous of our wives, that we
do not suffer any one to enter further within our houses than the vestibule; and where there
is jealousy, there must also be love. In respect to idols, we do not worship them; but we are
not able to think of the God of the universe, except by means of such forms presented to our
eyes; for we cannot elevate our thoughts above the sensual things of the body, nor think of
God above the objects of bodily vision." I then asked him again, "Are not your idols of different
forms? How then can they excite the idea of one God?" He replied, "This is a mystery to us;
somewhat of the worship of God lies concealed in each form." I then said, "You are merely sensual
corporeal spirits; you have neither the love of God nor the love of a married partner grounded
in any spiritual principle; and these loves together form a man (homo) and from sensual make
him celestial." As I said this, there appeared through the gate as it were lightning: and on
my asking what it meant, he said, "Such lightning is a sign to us that there will come the
ancient one from the east, who teaches us concerning God, that He is one, the alone omnipotent,
who is the first and the last; he also admonishes us not to worship idols, but only to look
at them as images representative of the virtues proceeding from the one God, which also together
form his worship. This ancient one is our angel, whom we revere and obey. He comes to us, and
raises us, when we are falling into obscure worship of God from mere fancies respecting images."
On hearing this, we left the house and went out of the city; and in the way, from what we had
seen in the heavens, we drew some conclusions respecting the circuit and the progression of
conjugial love; of the circuit that it had passed from the east to the south, from the south
to the west, and from the west to the north; and of the progression, that it had decreased
according to its circulation, namely, that in the east it was celestial, in the south spiritual,
in the west natural, and in the north sensual; and also that it had decreased in a similar
degree with the love and the worship of God: from which considerations we further concluded,
that this love in the first age was like gold, in the second like silver, in the third like
brass, and in the fourth like iron, and that at length it ceased. On this occasion the angel,
my guide and companion, said, "Nevertheless I entertain a hope that this love will be revived
by the God of heaven, who is the Lord, because it is capable of being so revived."

79. THE FIFTH MEMORABLE RELATION, The angel that had been my guide and companion to the ancients
who had lived in the four ages, the golden, the silver, the copper, and the iron, again presented
himself to me, and said, "Are you desirous of seeing the age which succeeded those ancient
ones, and to know what its quality formerly was, and still is? Follow me, and you shall see.
41-43:'" and he said, "By the seed of man, whereby iron shall be mixed with clay, and still
they shall not cohere, is meant the truth of the Word falsified." After he had said this, I
followed him, and in the way, he related to me these particulars. "They dwell in the borders
between the south and the west, but at a great distance beyond those who lived in the four
former ages, and also at a greater depth." We then proceeded through the south to the region
bordering on the west, and passed though a formidable forest; for in it there were lakes, out
of which crocodiles raised their heads, and opened at us their wide jaws beset with teeth;
and between the lakes were terrible dogs, some of which were three-headed like Cerberus, some
two-headed, all looking at us as we passed with a horrible hungry snarl and fierce eyes. We
entered the western tract of this region, and saw dragons and leopards, such as are described
in the Revelation, chap. xii. 3; chap. xiii. 2. Then the angel said to me, "All these wild
beasts which you have seen, are not wild beasts but correspondences, and thereby representative
forms of the lusts of the inhabitants whom we shall visit. The lusts themselves are represented
by those horrible dogs; their deceit and cunning by crocodiles; their falsities and depraved
inclinations to the things which relate to worship, by dragons and leopards: nevertheless the
inhabitants represented do not live close behind the forest, but behind a great wilderness
which lies intermediate, that they may be fully withheld and separated from the inhabitants
of the foregoing ages, being of an entirely different genius and quality from them: they have
indeed heads above their breasts, and breasts above their loins, and loins above their feet,
like the primeval men; but in their heads there is not any thing of gold, nor in their breasts
any thing of silver, nor in their loins any thing of brass, no, nor in their feet any thing
of pure iron; but in their heads is iron mixed with clay, in their breasts is each mixed with
brass, in their loins is also each mixed with silver, and in their feet is each mixed with
gold: by this inversion they are changed from men (homines) into graven images of men, in which
inwardly nothing coheres; for what was highest, is made lowest, thus what was the head is become
the heel, and vice versa. They appear to us from heaven like stage-players, who lie upon their
elbows with the body inverted, and put themselves in a walking motion; or like beasts, which
lie on their backs, and lift the feet upwards, and from the head, which they plunge in the
earth, look towards heaven." We passed through the forest, and entered the wilderness, which
was not less terrible: it consisted of heaps of stones, and ditches between them, out of which
crept hydras and vipers, and there flew forth venomous flying serpents. This whole wilderness
was on a continual declivity: we descended by a long steep descent, and at length came into
the valley inhabited by the people of that region and age. There were here and there cottages,
which appeared at length to meet, and to be joined together in the form of a city: this we
entered, and lo! the houses were built of the scorched branches of trees, cemented together
with mud and covered with black slates. The streets were irregular; all of them at the entrance
narrow, but wider as they extended, and at the end spacious, where there were places of public
resort: here there were as many places of public resort as there were streets. As we entered
the city, it became dark, because the sky did not appear; we therefore looked up and light
was given us, and we saw: and then I asked those we met, "Are you able to see because the sky
does not appear above you?" They replied "What a question is this! we see clearly; we walk
in full light." On hearing this, the angel said to me, "Darkness to them is light, and light
darkness, as is the case with birds of night; as they look downwards and not upwards." We entered
into some of the cottages, and saw in each a man with his woman, and we asked them, "Do all
live here in their respective houses with one wife only?" And they replied with a hissing,
"What do you mean by one wife only? Why do not you ask, whether we live with one harlot? What
is a wife but a harlot? By our laws it is not allowable to commit fornication with more than
one woman; but still we do not hold it dishonorable or unbecoming to do so with more; yet out
of our own houses we glory in the one among another: thus we rejoice in the license we take,
and the pleasure attending it, more than polygamists. Why is a plurality of wives denied us,
when yet it has been granted, and at this day is granted in the whole world about us? What
is life with one woman only, but captivity and imprisonment? We however in this place have
broken the bolt of this prison, and have rescued ourselves from slavery, and made ourselves
free, and who is angry with a prisoner for asserting his freedom when it is in his power?"
to this we replied, "You speak, friend, as if without any sense of religion. What rational
person does not know that adulteries are profane and infernal, and that marriages are holy
and heavenly. Do not adulteries take place with devils in hell, and marriages with angels in
heaven? Did you never read the sixth commandment [Footnote: According to the division of the
commandments adopted by the Church of England, it is the seventh that is here referred to.]
of the decalogue? and in Paul, that adulterers can by no means enter heaven?" Hereupon our
host laughed heartily, and regarded me as a simpleton, and almost as out of my senses. But
just then there came running a messenger from the chief of the city, and said, "Bring the two
strangers into the town-hall; and if they refuse to come, drag them there: we have seen them
in a shade of light; they have entered privately; they are spies." Hereupon the angel said
to me, "The reason why we were seen in a shade, is, because the light of heaven in which we
have been, is to them a shade, and the shade of hell is to them light; and this is because
they regard nothing as sin, not even adultery: hence they see what is false altogether as what
is true; and what is false is lucid in hell before satans, and what is true darkens their eyes
like the shade of night." We said to the messenger, "We will not be pressed, still less will
we be dragged into the town-hall; but we will go with you of our own accord." So we went: and
lo! there was a great crowd assembled, out of which came some lawyers, and whispered to us,
saying, "Take heed to yourselves how you speak any thing against religion, the form of our
government, and good manners:" and we replied, "We will not speak against them, but for them
and from them." Then we asked, "What are your religious notions respecting marriages?" At this
the crowd murmured, and said, "What have you to do here with marriages? Marriages are marriages."
Again we asked, "What are your religious notions respecting whoredoms?" At this also they murmured,
saying, "What have you to do here with whoredoms? Whoredoms are whoredoms: let him that is
guiltless cast the first stone." And we asked thirdly, "Does your religion teach that marriages
are holy and heavenly, and that adulteries are profane and infernal?" Hereupon several in the
crowd laughed aloud, jested, and bantered, saying, "Inquire of our priests, and not of us,
as to what concerns religion. We acquiesce entirely in what they declare; because no point
of religion is an object of decision in the understanding. Have you never heard that the understanding
is without any sense or discernment in mysteries, which constitute the whole of religion? And
what have actions to do with religion? Is not the soul made blessed by the muttering of words
from a devout heart concerning expiation, satisfaction, and imputation, and not by works?"
But at this instant there came some of the wise ones of the city, so called, and said, "Retire
hence; the crowd grows angry; a storm is gathering: let us talk in private on this subject;
there is a retired walk behind the town-hall; come with us there." We followed them; and they
asked us whence we came, and what was our business there? And we said, "to be instructed concerning
marriages, whether they are holy with you, as they were with the ancients who lived in the
golden, silver, and copper ages; or whether they are not holy." And they replied, "What do
you mean by holiness? Are not marriages works of the flesh and of the night?" And we answered,
"Are they not also works of the spirit? and what the flesh does from the spirit, is not that
spiritual? and all that the spirit does, it does from the marriage of good and truth. Is not
this marriage spiritual, which enters the natural marriage of husband and wife?" To this the
wise ones, so called, made answer, "There is too much subtlety and sublimity in what you say
on this subject; you ascend far above rational principles to spiritual: and who, beginning
at such an elevation, can descend thence, and thus form any decision?" To this they added with
a smile of ridicule, "Perhaps you have the wings of an eagle, and can fly in the highest region
of heaven, and make these discoveries: this we cannot do." We then asked them to tell us, from
the altitude or region in which the winged ideas of their minds fly, whether they knew, or
were able to know, that the love of one man with one wife is conjugial love, into which are
collected all the beatitudes, satisfactions, delights, pleasantnesses, and pleasures of heaven;
and that this love is from the Lord according to the reception of good and truth from him;
thus according to the state of the church? On hearing this, they turned away, and said, "These
men are out of their senses; they enter the ether with their judgement, and scatter about vain
conjectures like nuts and almonds." After this they turned to us, saying, "We will give a direct
answer to your windy conjectures and dreams;" and they said, "What has conjugial love in common
with religion and inspiration from God? Is not this love with every one according to the state
of his potency? Is it not the same with those who are out of the church as with those who are
in it, with Gentiles as with Christians, yea, with the impious as with the pious? Has not every
one the strength of this love either hereditarily, or from bodily health, or from temperance
of life, or from warmth of climate? By medicines also it may be strengthened and stimulated.
Is not the case similar with the brute creation, especially with birds which unite in pairs?
Moreover, is not this love carnal? and what has a carnal principle in common with the spiritual
state of the church? Does this love, as to its ultimate effect with a wife, differ at all from
love as to its effect with a harlot? Is not the lust similar, and the delight similar? Wherefore
it is injurious to deduce the origin of conjugial love from the holy things of the church."
On hearing this, we said to them, "You reason from the stimulus of lasciviousness, and not
from conjugial love; you are altogether ignorant what conjugial love is, because it is cold
with you; from what you have said we are convinced that you are of the age which has its name
from and consists of iron and clay, which do not cohere, according to the prophecy in Daniel,
chap. ii. 43; for you make conjugial love and adulterous love the same thing; and do these
two cohere any more than iron and clay? You are believed and called wise, and yet you have
not the smallest pretensions to that character." On hearing this, they were inflamed with rage
and made a loud cry, and called the crowd together to cast us out; but at that instant, by
virtue of power given us by the Lord, we stretched out our hands, and lo! the flying serpents,
vipers, and hydras, and also the dragons from the wilderness, presented themselves, and entered
and filled the city; at which the inhabitants being terrified fled away. The angel then said
to me, "Into this region new comers from the earth daily enter, and the former inhabitants
are by turns separated and cast down into the gulphs of the west, which appear at a distance
like lakes of fire and brimstone. All in those gulphs are spiritual and natural adulterers."

80. THE SIXTH MEMORABLE RELATION. As the angel said this, I looked to the western boundary,
and lo! there appeared as it were lakes of fire and brimstone; and I asked him, why the hells
in that quarter had such an appearance? He replied, "They appear as lakes in consequence of
the falsifications of truth; because water in the spiritual sense signifies truth; and there
is an appearance as it were of fire round about them, and in them, in consequence of the love
of evil, and as it were of brimstone in consequence of the love of what is false. Those three
things, the lake, the fire, and the brimstone, are appearances, because they are correspondences
of the evil loves of the inhabitants. All in that quarter are shut up in eternal work-houses,
where they labor for food, for clothing, and for a bed to lie on; and when they do evil, they
are grievously and miserably punished." I further asked the angel, why he said that in that
quarter are spiritual and natural adulterers, and why he had not rather said, that they were
evil doers and impious? He replied, "Because all those who make light of adulteries, that is,
who commit them from a confirmed persuasion that they are not sins, and thus are in the purpose
of committing them from a belief of their being harmless, are in their hearts evil doers and
impious; for the conjugial human principle ever goes hand in hand with religion; and every
step and movement made under the influence of religion, and leading to it, is also a step and
movement made under the influence of the conjugial principle, and leading to it, which is peculiar
and proper to the Christian." On asking what that conjugial principle was, he said, "It is
the desire of living with one wife; and every Christian has this desire according to his religion."
I was afterwards grieved in spirit to think that marriages, which in the most ancient times
had been most holy, were so wretchedly changed into adulteries. The angel said, "The case is
the same at this day with religion; for the Lord says 'In the consummation of the age there
will be the abomination of desolation foretold by Daniel. And there will be great affliction,
such as there has not been from the beginning of the world,' Matt. xxiv. 15, 21. The abomination
of desolation signifies the falsification and deprivation of all truth; affliction signifies
the state of the church infested by evils and falses; and the consummation of the age, concerning
which those things are spoken, signifies the last time or end of the church. The end is now,
because there does not remain a truth which is not falsified; and the falsification of truth
is spiritual whoredom, which acts in unity with natural whoredom, because they cohere."

81. As we were conversing and lamenting together on this occasion, there suddenly appeared
a beam of light, which, darting powerfully upon my eyes, caused me to look up: and lo! the
whole heaven above us appeared luminous; and from the east to the west in an extended series
we heard a GLORIFICATION: and the angel said to me, "That is a glorification of the Lord on
account of his coming, and is made by the angels of the eastern and western heavens." From
the northern and southern heavens nothing was heard but a soft and pleasing murmur. Nevertheless
in those days the God of the heavens shall cause a kingdom to arise, which shall not perish
for ages. It shall bruise and consume those kingdoms; but itself shall stand for ages.' Dan.
ii. 43, 44." After this, I heard as it were the voice of singing, and further in the east I
saw a glittering of light more resplendent than the former; and I asked the angel what was
the subject of their glorification? He said, "These words in Daniel; 'I saw in the visions
of the night, and lo! with the clouds of heaven there came as it were the SON OF MAN: and to
him was given dominion and a kingdom; and all people and nations shall worship him. His dominion
is the dominion of an age, which shall not pass away; and his kingdom that which shall not
perish,' Dan. vii. 13, 14. They are further celebrating the Lord from these words in the Revelation:
'To JESUS CHRIST be glory and strength: behold he cometh with clouds. He is alpha and omega,
the beginning and the end, the first and the last; who is, who was, and who is to come, the
almighty. I, John, heard this from the SON OF MAN, out of the midst of the seven candlesticks,'
Rev. i. 5-7, 10-13; chap. xxii. 13; Matt. xxiv. 30, 31." I looked again into the eastern heaven:
it was enlightened on the right side, and the light entered the southern expanse. I heard a
sweet sound; and I asked the angel, what was the subject of their glorification in that quarter
respecting the Lord? 1, 2, 9, 10: also these words, 'I JESUS am the bright and morning star;
and the spirit and the bride say, COME; AND HE SAID, EVEN I COME QUICKLY; Amen: even COME,
LORD JESUS,' Rev. xxii. 16, 17, 20." After these and several other subjects of glorification,
there was heard a common glorification from the east to the west of heaven, and also from the
south to the north; and I asked the angel, "What now is the subject?" He said, "These words
from the prophets; 'Let all flesh know that I, JEHOVAH, AM THY SAVIOUR AND THY REDEEMER,' Isaiah
xlix. 26. 'Thus saith JEHOVAH, the King of Israel, and HIS REDEEMER, JEHOVAH ZEBAOTH, I am
the first and the last, and BESIDE ME THERE IS NO GOD,' Isaiah xliv. 6. 'It shall be said in
that day, LO! THIS IS OUR GOD, whom we have expected to deliver us; THIS is JEHOVAH WHOM WE
HAVE EXPECTED.' Isaiah xxv. 9. 'The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare a way
for JEHOVAH. Behold the LORD JEHOVAH cometh in strength. He shall feed his flock like a SHEPHERD,'
Isaiah xl. 3, 10, 11. 'Unto us a child is born; unto us a son is given; whose name is Wonderful
Counsellor, GOD, Hero, FATHER OF ETERNITY, Prince of Peace,' Isaiah ix. 6. 5, 6; chap, xxxiii.
15, 16. 'JEHOVAH ZEBAOTH is his name, and THY REDEEMER the holy one of Israel: THE GOD OF THE
WHOLE EARTH SHALL HE BE CALLED,' Isaiah liv. 5. 'IN THAT DAY THERE SHALL BE ONE JEHOVAH, AND
HIS NAME ONE,' Zech. xiv. 9." On hearing and understanding these words, my heart exulted, and
I went home with joy; and there I returned out of a state of the spirit into a state of the
body; in which latter state I committed to writing what I had seen and heard: to which I now
add the following particular. That conjugial love, such as it was with the ancients, will be
revived again by the Lord after his coming; because this love is from the Lord alone, and is
the portion of those who from him, by means of the Word, are made spiritual.

82. After this, a man from the northern quarter came running in great haste, and looked at
me with a threatening countenance, and addressing me in a passionate tone of voice, said, "Are
you the man that wishes to seduce the world, under the notion of re-establishing a new church,
which you understand by the New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God; and teaching,
that the Lord will endow with love truly conjugial those who embrace the doctrines of that
church; the delights and felicity of which love you exalt to the very heaven? Is not this a
mere fiction? and do you not hold it forth as a bait and enticement to accede to your new opinions?
But tell me briefly, what are the doctrinals of the New Church, and I will see whether they
agree or disagree." I replied, "The doctrines of the church, which is meant by the New Jerusalem,
are as follow: I. That there is one God, in whom there is a divine trinity; and that he is
the LORD JESUS CHRIST. II. That a saving faith is to believe on him. III. That evils are to
be shunned, because they are of the devil and from the devil. IV. That goods are to be done,
because they are of God and from God. V. That these are to be done by a man as from himself;
but that it ought to be believed, that they are done from the Lord with him and by him." On
hearing these doctrines, his fury for some moments abated; but after some deliberation he again
looked at me sternly, and said, "Are these five precepts the doctrines of faith and charity
of the New Church?" I replied, "They are." He then asked sharply, "How can you demonstrate
the FIRST, 'that there is one God in whom there is a divine trinity; and that he is the Lord
Jesus Christ?" I said, "I demonstrate it thus: Is not God one and individual? Is not there
a trinity? If God be one and individual, is not he one person? If he be one person, is not
the trinity in that person? That this God is the LORD JESUS CHRIST, is evident from these considerations,
that he was conceived from God the Father, Luke i. 34, 35; and thus that as to his soul he
is God; and hence, as he himself saith, that the Father and himself are one, John x. 30; that
he is in the Father, and the Father in him, John xix. 10, 11; that he that seeth him and knoweth
him, seeth and knoweth the Father, John xiv. 7, 9; that no one seeth and knoweth the Father,
except he that is in the bosom of the Father, John i. 18; that all things of the Father are
his, John iii. 35; chap. xvi. 15; that he is the Way, the Truth, and the Life; and that no
one cometh to the Father but by him, John xiv. 6; thus of or from him, because the Father is
in him; and, according to Paul, that all the fulness of the Godhead dwelleth bodily in him,
Coloss. ii. 9; and moreover, that he hath power over all flesh, John xvii. 2; and that he hath
all power in heaven and in earth, Matt, xxviii. 18: from which declarations it follows, that
he is God of heaven and earth." He afterwards asked how I proved the SECOND, "that a saving
faith is to believe on him?" 15, 16. 36." He afterwards said, "Demonstrate also the THIRD,
and the next two doctrines:" I replied, "What need is there to demonstrate 'that evils ought
to be shunned, because they are of the devil and from the devil; and that goods ought to be
done, because they are of God and from God;' also 'that the latter are to be done by a man
as from himself; but that he ought to believe that they are from the Lord with him and by him?'
That these three doctrines are true, is confirmed by the whole Sacred Scripture from beginning
to end; for what else is therein principally insisted on, but to shun evils and do goods, and
believe on the Lord God? Moreover, without these three doctrines there can be no religion:
for does not religion relate to life? and what is life but to shun evils and do goods? and
how can a man do the latter and shun the former but as from himself? Therefore if you remove
these doctrines from the church, you remove from it the Sacred Scripture, and also religion;
and these being removed, the church is no longer a church." The man on hearing this retired,
and mused on what he had heard; but still he departed in indignation.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE ORIGIN OF CONJUGIAL LOVE AS GROUNDED IN THE MARRIAGE OF GOOD AND TRUTH.

83. There are both internal and external origins of conjugial love, and several of each; nevertheless
there is but one inmost or universal origin of all. That this origin is the marriage of good
and truth, shall be demonstrated in what now follows. The reason why no one heretofore has
deduced the origin of that love from this ground, is, because it has never yet been discovered
that there is any union between good and truth; and the reason why this discovery has not been
made, is, because good does not appear in the light of the understanding, as truth does, and
hence the knowledge of it conceals itself and evades every inquiry: and as from this circumstance
good is as it were unknown, it was impossible for any one to conjecture that any marriage subsisted
between it and truth: yea, before the rational natural sight, good appears so different from
truth, that no conjunction between them can be supposed. That this is the case, may be seen
from common discourse whenever they are mentioned; as when it is said, "This is good," truth
is not at all thought of; and when it is said, "This is true," neither is good at all thought
of; therefore at this day it is believed by many, that truth is one thing and good another;
and by many also, that a man is intelligent and wise, and thereby a man (homo), according to
the truths which he thinks, speaks, writes, and believes, and not at the same time according
to goods. That nevertheless there is no good without truth, nor any truth without good, consequently
that there is an eternal marriage between them; also that this marriage is the origin of conjugial
love, shall now be shewn and explained in the following order: I. Good and truth are the universals
of creation, and thence are in all created things; but they are in created subjects according
to the form of each. II. There is neither solitary good nor solitary truth, but in all cases
they are conjoined. III. There is the truth of good, and from this the good of truth; or truth
grounded in good, and good grounded in that truth: and in those two principles is implanted
from creation an inclination to join themselves together into a one. IV. In the subjects of
the animal kingdom, the truth of good, or truth grounded in good, is male (or masculine); and
the good of that truth, or good grounded in that truth, is female (or feminine). V. From the
influx of the marriage of good and truth from the Lord, the love of the sex and conjugial love
are derived. VI. The love of the sex belongs to the external or natural man, and hence it is
common to every animal. VII. But conjugial love belongs to the internal or spiritual man; and
hence this love is peculiar to man. VIII. With man conjugial love is in the love of the sex
as a gem in its matrix. IX. The love of the sex with man is not the origin of conjugial love,
but its first rudiment; thus it is like an external natural principle, in which an internal
spiritual principle is implanted. X. During the implantation of conjugial love, the love of
the sex inverts itself and becomes the chaste love of the sex. XI. The male and the female
were created to be the essential form of the marriage of good and truth. XII. They are that
form in their inmost principles, and thence in what is derived from those principles, in proportion
as the interiors of their minds are opened. We will now proceed to the explanation.

84. The reason why good and truth are the universals of creation, is, because these two are
in the Lord God the Creator; yea, they are himself; for he is essential divine good and essential
divine truth. But this enters more clearly into the perception of the understanding, and thereby
into the ideas of thought, if instead of good we say love, and instead of truth we say wisdom:
consequently that in the Lord God the Creator there are divine love and divine wisdom, and
that they are himself; that is, that he is essential love and essential wisdom; for those two
are the same as good and truth. The reason of this is, because good has relation to love, and
truth to wisdom; for love consists of goods, and wisdom truths. As the two latter and the two
former are one and the same, in the following pages we shall sometimes speak of the latter
and sometimes of the former, while by both the same is understood. This preliminary observation
is here made, lest different meanings should be attached to the expressions when they occur
in the following pages.

85. Since therefore the Lord God the Creator is essential love and essential wisdom, and from
him was created the universe, which thence is as a work proceeding from him, it must needs
be, that in all created things there is somewhat of good and of truth from him; for whatever
is done and proceeds from any one, derives from him a certain similarity to him. That this
is the case, reason also may see from the order in which all things in the universe were created;
which order is, that one exists for the sake of another, and that thence one depends upon another,
like the links of a chain: for all things are for the sake of the human race, that from it
the angelic heaven may exist, through which creation returns to the Creator himself, in whom
it originated: hence there is a conjunction of the created universe with its Creator, and by
conjunction everlasting conservation. Hence it is that good and truth are called the universals
of creation. That this is the case, is manifested to every one who takes a rational view of
the subject: he sees in every created thing something which relates to good, and something
which relates to truth.

86. The reason why good and truth in created subjects are according to the form of each, is,
because every subject receives influx according to its form. The conservation of the whole
consists in the perpetual influx of divine good and divine truth into forms created from those
principles; for thereby subsistence or conservation is perpetual existence or creation. That
every subject receives influx according to its form, may be illustrated variously; as by the
influx of heat and light from the sun into vegetables of every kind; each of which receives
influx according to its form; thus every tree and shrub according to its form, every herb and
every blade of grass according to its form: the influx is alike into all; but the reception,
which is according to the form, causes every species to continue a peculiar species. The same
thing may also be illustrated by the influx into animals of every kind according to the form
of each. That the influx is according to the form of every particular thing, may also be seen
by the most unlettered person, if he attends to the various instruments of sound, as pipes,
flutes, trumpets, horns, and organs which give forth a sound from being blown alike, or from
a like influx of air, according to their respective forms.

87. II. THERE IS NEITHER SOLITARY GOOD NOR SOLITARY TRUTH. BUT IN ALL CASES THEY ARE CONJOINED.
Whoever is desirous from any of the senses to acquire an idea respecting good, cannot possibly
find it without the addition of something which exhibits and manifests it: good without this
is a nameless entity; and this something, by which it is exhibited and manifested, has relation
to truth. Pronounce the term good only, and say nothing at the same time of this or that thing
with which it is conjoined; or define it abstractedly, or without the addition of anything
connected with it; and you will see that it is a mere nothing, and that it becomes something
with its addition; and if you examine the subject with discernment, you will perceive that
good, without some addition, is a term of no predication, and thence of no relation, of no
affection, and of no state; in a word, of no quality. The case is similar in regard to truth,
if it be pronounced and heard without what it is joined with: that what it is joined with relates
to good, may be seen by refined reason. But since goods are innumerable, and each ascends to
its greatest, and descends to its least, as by the steps of a ladder, and also, according to
its progression and quality, varies its name, it is difficult for any but the wise to see the
relation of good and truth to their objects, and their conjunction in them. That nevertheless
there is not any good without truth, nor any truth without good, is manifest from common perception,
provided it be first acknowledged that every thing in the universe has relation to good and
truth; as was shewn in the foregoing article, n. 84, 85. That there is neither solitary good
nor solitary truth, may be illustrated and at the same time confirmed by various considerations;
as by the following: that there is no essence without a form, nor any form without an essence;
for good is an essence or esse; and truth is that by which the essence is formed and the esse
exists. Again in a man (homo) there are the will and the understanding. Good is of the will,
and truth is of the understanding; and the will alone does nothing but by the understanding;
nor does the understanding alone do anything but from the will. Again, in a man there are two
fountains of bodily life, the heart and the lungs. The heart cannot produce any sensitive and
moving life without the respiring lungs; neither can the lungs without the heart. The heart
has relation to good, and the respiration of the lungs to truth: there is also a correspondence
between them. The case is similar in all the things of the mind and of the body belonging to
him; but we have not leisure to produce further confirmations in this place; therefore the
reader is referred to the ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE, n. 3-16, where this
subject is more fully confirmed and explained in the following order: I. That the universe
with all its created subjects, is from the divine love by the divine wisdom; or, what is the
same thing, from the divine good by the divine truth. II. That the divine good and the divine
truth proceed as a one from the Lord. III. That this one, in a certain image, is in every created
thing. V. That good is not good, only so far as it is united with truth; and that truth is
not truth, only so far as it is united with good. VII. That the Lord doesn't suffer that any
thing should be divided; wherefore a man must either be in good and at the same time in truth,
or in evil and at the same time in falsehood: not to mention several other considerations.

88. Wisdom cannot exist with a man but by means of the love of growing wise; if this love be
taken away, it is altogether impossible for him to become wise. Wisdom derived from this love
is meant by the truth of good, or by truth grounded in good: but when a man has procured to
himself wisdom from that love, and loves it in himself, or himself for its sake, he then forms
a love which is the love of wisdom, and is meant by the good of truth, or by good grounded
in that truth. There are therefore two loves belonging to a man, whereof one, which is prior,
is the love of growing wise; and the other, which is posterior, is the love of wisdom: but
this latter love if it remains with man, is an evil love, and is called self-conceit, or the
love of his own intelligence. That it was provided from creation, that this love should be
taken out of the man, lest it should destroy him, and should be transferred to the woman, for
the effecting of conjugial love, which restores man to integrity, will be confirmed in the
following pages. Something respecting those two loves, and the transfer of the latter to the
woman, may be seen above, n. 32, 33, and in the preliminary MEMORABLE RELATION, n. 20.

89. The reason why in these two principles there is implanted from creation an inclination
to join themselves together into a one, is because the one was formed from the other; wisdom
being formed from the love of growing wise, or truth being formed from good; and the love of
wisdom being formed from that wisdom, or the good of truth from that truth; from which formation
it may be seen, that there is a mutual inclination to re-unite themselves, and to join themselves
together into a one. This effect takes place with men who are in genuine wisdom, and with women
who are in the love of that wisdom in the husband; thus with those who are in love truly conjugial.
But concerning the wisdom which ought to exist with the man, and which should be loved by the
wife, more will be said in what follows.

90. IV. That from the Lord, the Creator and Supporter of the universe, there flows a perpetual
union of love and wisdom, or a marriage of good and truth, and that created subjects receive
the influx, each according to its form, was shewn above, n. 84-86: but that the male from this
marriage, or from that union, receives the truth of wisdom, and that the good of love from
the Lord is conjoined thereto according to reception, and that this reception takes place in
the intellect, and that hence the male is born to become intellectual, reason, by its own light,
may discover from various particulars respecting him, especially from his affection, application,
manners, and form. It is discoverable from his AFFECTION, which is the affection of knowing,
of understanding, and of growing wise; the affection of knowing takes place in childhood, the
affection of understanding in youth and in the entrance upon manhood, and the affection of
growing wise takes place from the entrance upon manhood even to old age; from which it is evident,
that his nature or peculiar temper is inclinable to form the intellect; consequently that he
is born to become intellectual: but as this cannot be effected except by means of love, therefore
the Lord adjoins love to him according to his reception; that is, according to his intention
in desiring to grow wise. The same is discoverable from his APPLICATION, which is to such things
as respect the intellect, or in which the intellect is predominant; several of which relate
to public offices and regard the public good. The same is discoverable too from his MANNERS,
which are all grounded in the intellect as a ruling principle; in consequence whereof the actions
of his life, which are meant by manners, are rational; and if not, still he is desirous they
should appear so; masculine rationality is also discernible in every one of his virtues. Lastly,
the same is discoverable from his FORM, which is different and totally distinct from the female
form; on which subject see also what was said above, n. 33. Add to this, that the principle
of prolification is in him, which is derived from the intellect alone; for it is from truth
grounded in good in the intellect: that the principle of prolification is from this source
may be seen in the following pages.

91. But that the female is born to be a subject of the will (ut sit voluntaria), yet a subject
of the will as grounded in the intellectual principle of the man, or what is the same, to be
the love of the man's wisdom, because she was formed through his wisdom, (on which subject
see above, n. 88, 89,) may also appear from the female's affection, application, manners, and
form. From her AFFECTION, which is the affection of loving knowledge, intelligence, and wisdom;
nevertheless not in herself but in the man; and thus of loving the man: for the man (vir) cannot
be loved merely on account of his form, in that he appears as a man (homo), but on account
of the talent with which he is gifted, which causes him to be a man. From her APPLICATION;
in that it is to such manual works as knitting, needlework, and the like, serving for ornament,
both to decorate herself and to exalt her beauty: and moreover from her application to various
domestic duties, which connect themselves with the duties of men, which, as was said, relate
to public offices. They are led to these duties from an inclination to marriage, that they
may become wives, and thereby one with their husbands. That the same is also discoverable from
their MANNERS and FORM, needs no explanation.

92. That good and truth are the universals of creation, and thence are in all created subjects;
and that they are in created subjects according to the form of each; and that good and truth
proceed from the Lord not as two but as one, was shewn above, n. 84-87: from these considerations
it follows, that the UNIVERSAL CONJUGIAL SPHERE proceeds from the Lord, and pervades the universe
from its primaries to its ultimates; thus from angels even to worms. The reason why such a
sphere of the marriage of good and truth proceeds from the Lord, is, because it is also the
sphere of propagation, that is, of prolification and fructification; and this sphere is the
same with the divine providence relating to the preservation of the universe by successive
generations. Now since this universal sphere, which is that of the marriage of good and truth,
flows into its subjects according to the form of each, see n. 86, it follows that the male
receives it according to his form, thus in the intellect, because he is in an intellectual
form; and that the female receives it according to her form, thus in the will, because she
is a form of the will grounded in the intellect of the man; and since that sphere is also the
sphere of prolification, it follows that hence is the love of the sex.

93. The reason why conjugial love also is from this same source, is, because that sphere flows
into the form of wisdom with men, and also with angels; for a man may increase in wisdom to
the end of his life in the world, and afterwards to eternity in heaven; and in proportion as
he increases in wisdom, his form is perfected; and this form receives not the love of the sex,
but the love of one of the sex; for with one of the sex it may be united to the inmost principles
in which heaven with its felicities consists, and this union is conjugial love.

94. Every man is born corporeal, and becomes more and more interiorly natural, and in proportion
as he loves intelligence he becomes rational, and afterwards, if he loves wisdom, he becomes
spiritual. What the wisdom is by which a man becomes spiritual, will be shewn in the following
pages, n. 130. Now as a man advances from knowledge into intelligence, and from intelligence
into wisdom, so also his mind changes its form; for it is opened more and more, and conjoins
itself more nearly with heaven, and by heaven with the Lord; hence it becomes more enamored
of truth, and more desirous of the good of life. If therefore he halts at the threshold in
the progression to wisdom, the form of his natural mind remains; and this receives the influx
of the universal sphere, which is that of the marriage of good and truth, in the same manner
as it is received by the inferior subjects of the animal kingdom--beasts and birds; and as
these are merely natural, the man in such case becomes like them, and thereby loves the sex
just as they do.

95. The reason why conjugial love belongs to the internal or spiritual man is, because in proportion
as a man becomes more intelligent and wise, in the same proportion he becomes more internal
and spiritual, and in the same proportion the form of his mind is more perfected; and this
form receives conjugial love: for therein it perceives and is sensible of a spiritual delight,
which is inwardly blessed, and a natural delight thence arising, which derives its soul, life,
and essence from the spiritual delight.

96. The reason why conjugial love is peculiar to man, is because he only can become spiritual,
he being capable of elevating his intellect above his natural loves, and from that state of
elevation of seeing them beneath him, and of judging of their quality, and also of amending,
correcting, and removing them. No other animal can do this; for the loves of other animals
are altogether united with their inborn knowledge; on which account this knowledge cannot be
elevated into intelligence, and still less into wisdom; in consequence of which every other
animal is led by the love implanted in his knowledge, as a blind person is led through the
streets by a dog. This is the reason which conjugial love is peculiar to man; it may also be
called native and near akin to him; because man has the faculty of growing wise, with which
faculty this love is united.

97. As this however is merely a comparison, we will explain it in the article which immediately
follows: this comparison also illustrates what was shown just above, n. 94, 95,--that the love
of the sex belongs to the external or natural man, and conjugial love to the internal or spiritual
man.

98. The subject here treated of is love truly conjugial, and not ordinary love, which also
is called conjugial, and which with some is merely the limited love of the sex. Love truly
conjugial exists only with those who desire wisdom, and who consequently advance more and more
into wisdom. These the Lord foresees, and provides for them conjugial love; which love indeed
commences with them from the love of the sex, or rather by it; but still it does not originate
in it; for it originates in proportion to the advancement in wisdom and the dawning of the
light thereof in man; for wisdom and that love are inseparable companions. The reason why conjugial
love commences by the love of the sex is, because before a suitable consort is found, the sex
in general is loved and regarded with a fond eye, and is treated with civility from a moral
ground: for a young man has to make his choice; and while this is determining, from an innate
inclination to marriage with one, which lies concealed in the interiors of his mind, his external
receives a gentle warmth. A further reason is, because determinations to marriage are delayed
from various causes even to riper years, and in the mean time the beginning of that love is
as lust; which with some actually goes astray into the love of the sex; yet with them it is
indulged no further than may be conducive to health. This, however, is to be understood as
spoken of the male sex, because it has enticements which actually inflame it; but not of the
female sex. From these considerations it is evident that the love of the sex is not the origin
of love truly conjugial; but that it is its first rudiment in respect to time, yet not in respect
to end; for what is first in respect to end, is first in the mind and its intention, because
it is regarded as primary; but to this first there is no approaching unless successively through
mediums, and these are not first in themselves, but only conducive to what is first in itself.

99. It is said that in this case the love of the sex inverts itself; because while conjugial
love is coming to its origin, which is in the interiors of the mind, it sees the love of the
sex not before itself but behind, or not above itself but beneath, and thus as somewhat which
it passes by and leaves. The case herein is similar to that of a person climbing from one office
to another through a great variety, till he reaches one which exceeds the rest in dignity;
when he looks back upon the offices through which he had passed, as behind or beneath him;
or as when a person intends a journey to the palace of some king, after his arrival at his
journey's end, he inverts his view in regard to the objects which he had seen in the way. That
in this case the love of the sex remains and becomes chaste, and yet, to those who are principled
in love truly conjugial, is sweeter than it was before, may be seen from the description given
of it by those in the spiritual world, in the two MEMORABLE RELATIONS, n. 44, and 55.

100. The reason for this is, because the male was created to be the understanding of truth,
thus truth in form; and the female was created to be the will of good, thus good in form; and
there is implanted in each, from their inmost principles, an inclination to conjunction into
a one, as may be seen above, n. 88; thus the two make one form, which emulates the conjugial
form of good and truth. It is said to emulate it, because it is not the same, but is like it;
for the good which joins itself with the truth belonging to the man, is from the Lord immediately;
whereas the good of the wife, which joins itself with the truth belonging to the man, is from
the Lord mediately through the wife; therefore there are two goods, the one internal, the other
external, which join themselves with the truth belonging to the husband, and cause him to be
constantly in the understanding of truth, and thence in wisdom, by love truly conjugial: but
on this subject more will be said in the following pages.

101. XII. There are three things of which every man consists, and which follow in an orderly
connection,--the soul, the mind, and the body: his inmost is the soul, his middle is the mind,
and his ultimate is the body. Every thing which flows from the Lord into a man, flows into
his inmost principle, which is the soul, and descends thence into his middle principle, which
is the mind, and through this into his ultimate principle, which is the body. Such is the nature
of the influx of the marriage of good and truth from the Lord with man: it flows immediately
into his soul, and thence proceeds to the principles next succeeding, and through these to
the extreme or outermost: and thus conjointly all the principles constitute conjugial love.
From an idea of this influx it is manifest, that two married partners are the form of conjugial
love in their inmost principles, and thence in those derived from the inmost.

102. But the reason why married partners become that form in proportion as the interiors of
their minds are opened, is, because the mind is successively opened from infancy even to extreme
old age: for a man is born corporeal: and in proportion as the mind is opened proximately above
the body, he becomes rational; and in proportion as his rational principle is purified, and
as it were drained of the fallacies which flow in from the bodily senses, and of the concupiscences
which flow in from the allurements of the flesh, in the same proportion it is opened; and this
is affected solely by wisdom: and when the interiors of the rational mind are open, the man
becomes a form of wisdom; and this form is the receptacle of love truly conjugial. "The wisdom
which constitutes this form, and receives this love, is rational, and at the same time moral,
wisdom: rational wisdom regards the truths and goods which appear inwardly in man, not as its
own, but as flowing in from the Lord; and moral wisdom shuns evils and falses as leprosies,
especially the evils of lasciviousness, which contaminate its conjugial love."

       *       *       *       *       *

103. To the above I shall add two MEMORABLE RELATIONS: the FIRST is this. One morning before
sun-rise I was looking towards the east in the spiritual world, and I saw four horsemen as
it were issuing from a cloud refulgent with the flame of the dawning day. On their heads they
had crested helmets, on their arms as it were wings, and around their bodies light orange-colored
tunics; thus clad as for expedition, they rose in their seats, and gave their horses the reins,
which thus ran as if they had had wings to their feet. I kept my eye fixed on their course
or flight, desiring to know where they were going; and lo! three of the horsemen took their
direction towards three different quarters, the south, the west, and the north; and the fourth
in a short space of time halted in the east. Wondering at all this, I looked up into heaven,
and inquired where those horsemen were going? I received for answer, "To the wise men in the
kingdoms of Europe, who with clear reasoning and acute discernment discuss the subjects of
their investigation, and are distinguished above the rest for their genius, that they may assemble
together and explain the secret RESPECTING THE ORIGIN OF CONJUGIAL LOVE, AND RESPECTING ITS
VIRTUE OR POTENCY."

It was then said from heaven, "Wait awhile, and you will see twenty-seven chariots; three,
in which are Spaniards; three, in which are Frenchmen; three, in which are Italians; three,
in which are Germans; three, in which are Dutchmen or Hollanders; three, in which are Englishmen;
three, in which are Swedes; three, in which are Danes; and three, in which are Poles." In about
two hours I saw the chariots, drawn by horses of a pale-red color, with remarkable trappings:
they passed rapidly along towards a spacious house in the confines of the east and south, around
which all alighted from their several chariots, and entered in with much confidence. Then it
was said to me, "Go, and do you also enter, and you will hear." I went and entered: and on
examining the house within, I saw that it was square, the sides looking to the four quarters:
in each side there were three high windows of crystalline glass, the frames of which were of
olive-wood; on each side of the frames were projections from the walls, like chambers vaulted
above, in which there were tables. The walls of these chambers were of cedar, the roof of the
noble almug wood, and the floor of poplar boards. Near the eastern wall, where no windows were
seen, there was set a table overlaid with gold, on which was placed a TURBAN set with precious
stones, which was to be given as a prize or reward to him who should by investigation discover
the secret about to be proposed. While my attention was directed to the chamber projections
like closets near the windows, I saw five men in each from every kingdom of Europe, who were
prepared and waiting to know the object for the exercise of their judgements. An angel then
presented himself in the middle of the palace, and said, "The object for the exercise of your
judgements shall be RESPECTING THE ORIGIN OF CONJUGIAL LOVE, AND RESPECTING ITS VIRTUE OR POTENCY.
Investigate this and decide upon it; and write your decision on a piece of paper, and put it
into the silver urn which you see placed near the golden table, and subscribe the initial letter
of the kingdom from which you come; as F for French, B for Batavians or Hollanders, I for Italians,
E for English, P for Poles, G for German, H for Spaniards (Hispani), D for Danes, S for Swedes."
As he said this, the angel departed, saying, "I will return." Then the five men, natives of
the same country, in each closet near the windows, took into consideration the proposed subject,
examined it attentively, and came to a decision according to their respective talents and powers
of judgement, which they wrote on a piece of paper, and placed it in the silver urn, having
first subscribed the initial letter of their kingdom. This business being accomplished in about
three hours, the angel returned and drew the papers in order from the urn, and read them before
the assembly.

104. From the FIRST PAPER which he happened to lay hold of, he read as follows; "We five, natives
of the same country, in one closet have decreed that the origin of conjugial love is from the
most ancient people in the golden age, and that it was derived to them from the creation of
Adam and his wife; hence is the origin of marriages, and with marriages the origin of conjugial
love. The virtue or potency of conjugial love we derive from no other source than climate or
situation in regard to the sun, and the consequent heat of the country; and we are confirmed
in this sentiment, not by vain conjectures of reason, but by evident proofs of experience,
as by the case of the people who live under the line, or the equinoctial, where the heat of
the day is intense, and by the case of those who live nearer to the line, or more distant from
it; and also from the co-operation of the sun's heat with the vital heat in the living creatures
of the earth and the fowls of heaven, in the time of spring during prolification. Moreover,
what is conjugial love but heat, which becomes virtue or potency, if the heat supplied from
the sun be added to it?" To this decision was subscribed the letter H, the initial of the kingdom
from which they were.

105. After this he put his hand into the urn a SECOND TIME, and took out a paper from which
he read as follows: "We, natives of the same country, in our lodge have agreed that the origin
of conjugial love is the same with the origin of marriages, which were sanctioned by laws in
order to restrain man's innate concupiscences prompting him to adultery, which ruins the soul,
defiles the reason, pollutes the morals, and infects the body with disease: for adultery is
not human but bestial, not rational but brutish, and thus not in any respect Christian but
barbarous: with a view to the condemnation of such adultery, marriages originated, and at the
same time conjugial love. The case is the same with the virtue or potency of this love; for
it depends on chastity, which consists in abstaining from the rovings of whoredom: the reason
is, because virtue or potency, with him who loves his married partner alone, is confined to
one, and is thus collected and as it were concentrated; and then it becomes refined like a
quintessence from which all defilement is separated, which would otherwise be dispersed and
cast away in every direction. One of us five, who is a priest, has also added predestination
as a cause of that virtue or potency, saying, 'Are not marriages predestinated? and this being
the case, are not the progeny thence issuing and the means conducive thereto, predestinated
also?' He insisted on adding this cause because he had sworn to it." To this decision was subscribed
the letter B. On hearing it, a certain spirit observed with a smile, "How fair an apology is
predestination for weakness or impotence!"

106. Presently he drew from the urn a THIRD PAPER, from which he read as follows: "We, natives
of the same country, in our department have deliberated concerning the causes of the origin
of conjugial love, and have seen this to be the principal, that it is the same with the origin
of marriage, because conjugial love had no existence before marriage; and the ground of its
existence is, that when any one is desperately in love with a virgin, he desires in heart and
soul to possess her as being lovely above all things; and as soon as she betroths herself to
him he regards her as another self. That this is the origin of conjugial love, is clearly manifest
from the fury of every man against his rivals, and from the jealousy which takes place in case
of violation. We afterwards considered the origin of the virtue or potency of this love; and
the sentiments of three prevailed against the other two, viz., that virtue or potency with
a married partner arises from some degree of licentiousness with the sex. They affirmed that
they knew from experience that the potency of the love of the sex is greater than the potency
of conjugial love." To this decision was subscribed the letter I. On hearing it, there was
a cry from the table, "Remove this paper and take another out of the urn."

107. And instantly he drew out a FOURTH, from which he read as follows: "We, natives of the
same country, under our window have come to this conclusion, that the origin of conjugial love
and of the love of the sex is the same, the former being derived from the latter; only that
the love of the sex is unlimited, indeterminate, loose, promiscuous, and roving; whereas conjugial
love is limited, determinate, fixed, regular, and constant; and that this love therefore has
been sanctioned and established by the prudence of human wisdom as necessary to the existence
of every empire, kingdom, commonwealth, and even society; for without it men would wander like
droves of cattle in fields and forests, with harlots and ravished females, and would fly from
one habitation to another to avoid the bloody murders, violations, and depredations, whereby
the whole human race would be in danger of being extirpated. This is our opinion concerning
the origin of conjugial love. But the virtue or potency of conjugial love we deduce from an
uninterrupted state of bodily health continuing from infancy to old age; for the man who always
retains a sound constitution and enjoys a continual freedom from sickness, feels his vigor
unabated, while his fibres, nerves, muscles, and sinews, are neither torpid, relaxed, nor feeble,
but retain the full strength of their powers: farewell." To this decision was subscribed the
letter E.

108. FIFTHLY, he drew a paper out of the urn, from which he read as follows: "We, natives of
the same country, at our table, from the rationality of our minds, have examined into the origin
of conjugial love and of its virtue or potency; and from all the considerations which have
presented themselves, we have seen and concluded upon no other origin of conjugial love than
this: that every man, from incentives and consequent incitements which are concealed in the
interiors of his mind and body, after indulging in various desires of his eyes, at length fixes
his mind and inclination on one of the female sex, until his passion is determined entirely
to her: from this moment his warmth is enkindled more and more, until at length it becomes
a flame; in this state the inordinate love of the sex is banished, and conjugial love takes
its place. A youthful bridegroom under the influence of this flame, knows no other than that
the virtue or potency of this love will never cease; for he wants experience and therefore
knowledge respecting a state of the failure of his powers, and of the coldness of love which
then succeeds to delights: conjugial love therefore has its origin in this first ardor before
the nuptial ceremony, and from the same source it derives its virtue or potency; but this virtue
or potency changes its aspect after the nuptial ceremony, and decreases and increases; yet
still it continues with regular changes, or with decrease and increase, even to old age, by
means of prudent moderation, and by restraining the libidinous desires which burst forth from
the lurking places of the mind not yet thoroughly purified: for libidinous desire precedes
wisdom. This is our judgement concerning the origin and continuance of conjugial virtue or
potency." To this decision was subscribed the letter P.

109. SIXTHLY, he drew out a paper, from which he read as follows: "We, natives of the same
country, from the fellowship subsisting among us, have attentively considered the causes of
the origin of conjugial love, and have agreed in assigning two; one of which is the right education
of children, and the other the distinct possession of inheritances. We have assigned these
two, because they aim at and regard the same end, which is the public good: and this end is
obtained, because infants conceived and born from conjugial love become proper and true children;
and these in consequence of the natural love of the parents, exalted by the consideration of
their offspring being legitimate, are educated to be heirs of all their parents' possessions
both spiritual and natural. That the public good is founded on a right education of children
and on a distinct possession of inheritances, is obvious to reason. Of the love of the sex
and conjugial love, the latter appears as if it were one with the former, but it is distinctly
different; neither is the one love near to the other, but within it; and what is within is
more excellent than what is without: and we have seen that conjugial love from creation is
within, and lies hid in the love of the sex, just as an almond does in its shell; therefore
when conjugial love comes out of its shell, which is the love of the sex, it glitters before
the angels like a gem, a beryl, and astroites. The reason of this is, because on conjugial
love is inscribed the safety of the whole human race, which we conceive to be understood by
the public good. This is our judgement respecting the origin of this love. With respect to
the origin of its virtue or potency, from a consideration of its causes, we have concluded
it to be the development and separation of conjugial love from the love of the sex, which is
effected by wisdom on the man's part, and by the love of the man's wisdom on the part of the
wife: for the love of the sex is common to man and beast; whereas conjugial love is peculiar
to men: therefore so far as conjugial love is developed and separated from the love of the
sex, so far a man is a man and not a beast; and a man acquires virtue or potency from his love,
as a beast does from his." To this decision was subscribed the letter G.

110. SEVENTHLY, he drew out a paper from which he read as follows: "We, natives of the same
country, in the chamber under the light of our window, have found our thoughts and thence our
judgements exhilarated by meditating on conjugial love; for who is not exhilarated by this
love, which, while it prevails in the mind, prevails also through the whole body? We judge
of the origin of this love from its delights; for who in any case knows or has known the trace
of any love except from its delight and pleasurableness? The delights of conjugial love in
their origins are felt as beatitudes, satisfactions, and happinesses, in their derivations
as pleasantnesses and pleasures, and in their ultimates as superlative delights. The love of
the sex therefore originates when the interiors of the mind, and thence the interiors of the
body, are opened for the influx of those delights; but conjugial love originated at the time
when, from entering into marriage engagements, the primitive sphere of that love ideally promoted
those delights. The virtue or potency of this love arises from its passing, with its inmost
principles, from the mind into the body; for the mind, by derivation from the head, is in the
body, while it feels and acts, especially when it is delighted from this love: hence we judge
of the degrees of its potency and the regularity of its alterations. Moreover we also deduce
the virtue of potency from the stock whence a man is descended: if this be noble on the father's
side, it becomes also by transmission noble with his offspring. That such nobility is generated,
inherited and descends by transmission, is agreeable to the dictates of reason supported by
experience." To this decision was subscribed the letter F.

111. From the paper which came forth the EIGHTH in order, he read as follows: "We, natives
of the same country, in our place of assembly have not discovered the real origin of conjugial
love, because it lies deeply concealed in the sacred repositories of the mind. The most consummate
vision cannot, by any intellectual effort, reach that love in its origin. We have made many
conjectures; but after the vain exertion of subtle inquiry, we have been in doubt whether our
conjectures might not be called rather trifling than judicious; therefore whoever is desirous
to extract the origin of that love from the sacred repositories of his mind, and to exhibit
it clearly before his eyes, let him go to Delphos. We have contemplated that love beneath its
origin, and have seen that in the mind it is spiritual, and as a fountain from which a sweet
stream flows, whence it descends into the breast, where it becomes delightful, and is called
bosom love, which in itself is full of friendship and confidence, from a full inclination to
reciprocality; and that when it has passed the breast, it becomes genial love. These and similar
considerations, which a young man revolves in his mind while he is determining his choice to
one of the sex, kindle in his heart the fire of conjugial love; which fire, as it is the primitive
of that love is its origin. In respect to the origin of its virtue or potency, we acknowledge
no other than that love itself, they being inseparable companions, yet still they are such
that sometimes the one precedes and sometimes the other. When the love precedes and the virtue
or potency follows it, each is noble because in this case potency is the virtue of conjugial
love; but if the potency precedes and the love follows, each is then ignoble; because in this
case the love is subordinate to carnal potency; we therefore judge of the quality of each from
the order in which the love descends or ascends, and thus proceeds from its origin to its proposed
end." To this decision was subscribed the letter D.

112. Lastly, or NINTHLY, he took up a paper, from which he read as follows: "We, natives of
the same country, in our council-chamber have exercised our judgement on the two points proposed,
viz., the origin of conjugial love, and the origin of its virtue or potency. In the subtleties
of inquiry respecting the origin of conjugial love, in order to avoid obscurity in our reasonings,
we have distinguished between the love of the sex as being spiritual, natural, and carnal;
and by the spiritual love of the sex we have understood love truly conjugial, because this
is spiritual; and by the natural love of the sex we have understood polygamical love, because
this is natural; and by the merely carnal love of the sex we have understood adulterous love
because this is merely carnal. In exercising our judgements to examine into love truly conjugial,
we have clearly seen that this love exists only between one male and one female, and that from
creation it is celestial and inmost, the soul and father of all good loves, being inspired
into the first parents, and capable of being inspired into Christians; it is also of such a
conjunctive nature that by it two minds may become one mind, and two men (homines) as it were
one man (homo); which is meant by becoming one flesh. 24. Wherefore they are no longer two
but one flesh,' Matt. xix. 4-6. So far in regard to the origin of conjugial love: but as to
the origin of the virtue or potency of love truly conjugial, we conceive it to proceed from
a similitude of minds and unanimity; for when two minds are conjugially united, their thoughts
spiritually kiss each other, and these inspire into the body their virtue or potency." To this
decision was subscribed the letter S.

113. There were standing behind an oblong stage in the palace, erected before the doors, some
strangers from Africa, who cried out to the natives of Europe, "Permit one of us to deliver
his sentiments respecting the origin of conjugial love, and respecting its virtue or potency."
And immediately all the tables gave signs of assent with their hands. Then one of them entered
and stood at the table on which the turban was placed, and said, "You Christians deduce the
origin of conjugial love from love itself; but we Africans deduce it from the God of heaven
and earth. Is not conjugial love a chaste, pure, and holy love? Are not the angels of heaven
principled therein? Is not the whole human race, and thence the whole angelic heaven, the seed
of that love? And can such super-eminent principle derive its existence from any other source
than from God himself, the Creator and Preserver of the universe? You Christians deduce conjugial
virtue or potency from various causes rational and natural; but we Africans deduce it from
the state of man's conjunction with the God of the universe. This state we call a state of
religion; but you call it a state of the church: for when the love is derived from that state,
and is fixed and permanent, it must needs produce its own virtue, which resembles it, and thus
also is fixed and permanent. Love truly conjugial is known only to those few who live near
to God; consequently the potency of that love is known to none else. This potency is described
by the angels in the heavens as the delight of a perpetual spring."

114. As he said these word, the whole assembly arose, and lo! behind the golden table on which
lay the turban, there appeared a window that had not before been seen; and through it was heard
a voice, saying, "THE AFRICAN IS TO HAVE THE TURBAN." The angel then gave it into his hand,
but did not place it upon his head; and he went home with it. The inhabitants of the kingdoms
of Europe then left the assembly and entered their chariots, in which they returned to their
respective societies.

115. THE SECOND MEMORABLE RELATION. Awaking from sleep at midnight, I saw at some elevation
towards the east an angel holding in his right hand a paper, which appeared extremely bright,
being illuminated by the light flowing from the sun. In the middle of the paper there was written
in golden letters, THE MARRIAGE OF GOOD AND TRUTH. From the writing there darted forth a splendor
which formed a wide circle about the paper. This circle or encompassing splendor appeared like
the early dawn in spring. After this I saw the angel descending with the paper in his hand;
and as he descended the paper became less and less lucid, and the writing, which was THE MARRIAGE
OF GOOD AND TRUTH, changed from a golden into a silver color, afterwards into a copper color,
next into an iron color, and at length into the color of iron and copper rust: finally, I saw
the angel enter an obscure mist, and through the mist descend upon the ground; and here I did
not see the paper, although he still held it in his hand. This happened in the world of spirits,
in which all men first assemble after their decease. The angel then said to me, "Ask those
who come hither whether they see me, or anything in my hand." There came a great number; one
company from the east, another from the south, another from the west, and another from the
north; and I asked those who came from the east and from the south, who in the world had applied
themselves to literary pursuits, "Do you see any one here with me, and anything in his hand?"
They all said, "No." I then put the same question to those who came from the west and from
the north, who in the world had believed in the words of the learned; and these gave the same
answer: nevertheless the last of them, who in the world had been principled in simple faith
grounded in charity, or in some degree of truth grounded in good, when the rest were gone away,
said, that they saw a man with a paper, the man in a graceful dress, and the paper with letters
written upon it: and when they applied their eyes nearer to it, they said that they could read
these words, The marriage of good and truth; and they addressed the angel, intreating him to
explain to them the meaning of the writing. He said, "All things in the whole heaven and in
the whole world, are a marriage of good and truth; for all things whatever, both those which
live and communicate life and those which do not live and do not communicate life, were created
from and into the marriage of good and truth. There does not exist anything which was created
into truth alone, or any thing which was created into good alone: solitary good or solitary
truth is not any thing; but by marriage they exist and become something which derives its nature
and quality from that of the marriage. In the Lord the Creator are divine good and divine truth
in their very substance: the esse of his substance is divine good, and its existere is divine
truth: in him also they are in their very essential union; for in him they infinitely make
a one: and since these two in the Creator himself are a one, therefore also they are a one
in all things created from him; hereby also the Creator is conjoined in an eternal covenant
as of marriage with all things created from himself." Some of the spirits above-mentioned who
did not see the angel and the writing, being still near, and hearing these things, said in
an under tone, "Yes, we also comprehend what has been spoken;" but the angel then said to them,
"Turn aside a little from me and speak in like manner." They turned aside, and then said aloud,
"It is not so." After this the angel spoke concerning the MARRIAGE OF GOOD AND TRUTH with married
pairs, saying, that if their minds were in that marriage, the husband being truth, and the
wife the good thereof, they would both be in the delights of the blessedness and innocence,
and thence in the happiness which the angels of heaven enjoy; and in this state the prolific
principle of the husband would be in a continual spring, and thereby in the endeavour and vigor
of propagating its truth, and the wife would be in a continual reception thereof from a principle
of love. The wisdom which husbands derive from the Lord, is sensible of no greater delight
than to propagate its truths; and the love of wisdom which wives have from the Lord is sensible
of no higher gratification than to receive those truths as it were in the womb, and thus to
conceive them, to carry them in the womb, and to bring them forth. Spiritual prolifications
with the angels of heaven are of this sort; and if you are disposed to believe it, natural
prolifications are also from the same origin. The angel, after a salutation of peace, raised
himself from the ground, and passing through the mist ascended into heaven; and then the paper
shone as before according to the degrees of ascent; and behold! the circle, which before appeared
as the dawn of day, descended and dispelled the mist which caused darkness on the ground, and
a bright sunshine succeeded.

ON THE MARRIAGE OF THE LORD AND THE CHURCH, AND ITS CORRESPONDENCE.

116. The reason why the marriage of the Lord and the church, together with its correspondence,
is here also treated of, is, because without knowledge and intelligence on this subject, scarcely
any one can know, that conjugial love in its origin is holy, spiritual, and celestial, and
that it is from the Lord. It is said indeed by some in the church, that marriages have relation
to the marriage of the Lord with the church; but the nature and quality of this relationship
is unknown, in order therefore that this relationship may be exhibited to the understanding
so as to be seen in some degree of light, it is necessary to treat particularly of that holy
marriage which has place with and in those who are the Lord's church. These also, and no others,
are principled in love truly conjugial. But for the better elucidation of this arcanum, it
may be expedient to consider the subject distinctly, as arranged under the following articles:
I. The Lord in the Word is called the Bridegroom and Husband, and the church the bride and
wife; and the conjunction of the Lord with the church, and the reciprocal conjunction of the
church with the Lord, is called a marriage. II. The Lord is also called a Father, and the church,
a mother. III. The offspring derived from the Lord as a husband and father, and from the church
as a wife and mother, are all spiritual; and in the spiritual sense of the Word are understood
by sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, sons-in-law and daughters-in-law, and by other
names of relations. IV. The spiritual offspring, which are born from the Lord's marriage with
the church are truths and goods; truths, from which are derived understanding, perception,
and all thought; and goods, from which are derived love, charity, and all affection. V. From
the marriage of good and truth, which proceeds from the Lord in the way of influx, man (homo)
receives truth, and the Lord conjoins good thereto; and thus the church is formed by the Lord
with man. VI. The husband does not represent the Lord and the wife the church; because both
together, the husband and the wife, constitute the church. VII. Therefore there is not a correspondence
of the husband with the Lord and of the wife with the church, in the marriages of the angels
in the heavens and of men on earth. VIII. But there is a correspondence with conjugial love,
semination, prolification, the love of infants, and similar things which exist in marriages,
and are derived from them. IX. The Word is the medium of conjunction, because it is from the
Lord, and therefore is the Lord. X. The church is from the Lord, and exists with those who
come to him, and live according to his precepts. XI. Conjugial love is according to the state
of the church, because it is according to the state of wisdom with man (homo). XII. And as
the church is from the Lord, conjugial love is also from him. We proceed to the explanation
of each article.

117. 29: this was spoken by John the Baptist concerning the Lord. "Jesus said, so long as the
BRIDEGROOM is with them, the SONS OF THE NUPTIALS cannot fast: the days will come when the
BRIDEGROOM will be taken away from them, and then will they fast," Matt ix. 15; Mark ii. 19,
20; Luke v. 34, 35. "I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, prepared as a BRIDE adorned for HER
HUSBAND," Rev. xxi. 2. The New Jerusalem signifies the New Church of the Lord, as may be seen
in the APOCALYPSE REVEALED, n. 880, 881. "The angel said to John, Come, and I will shew thee
the BRIDE, THE LAMB'S WIFE: and he shewed him the holy city, New Jerusalem," Rev. xxi. 9, 10.
7, 9. The BRIDEGROOM, whom the five prepared virgins went forth to meet, and with WHOM they
entered in to the MARRIAGE, Matt. xxv. 1-10, denotes the Lord; as is evident from verse 13,
where it is said, "Watch, therefore; because ye know neither the day nor the hour in which
the SON OF MAN will come:" not to mention many passages in the prophets.

118. II. THE LORD IS ALSO CALLED A FATHER, AND THE CHURCH, A MOTHER. The Lord is called a Father,
as appears from the following passages: "Unto us a child is born; unto us a son is given; and
his name shall be called, Wonderful, Counsellor, GOD, THE FATHER OF ETERNITY, the Prince of
Peace," Isaiah ix. 6. "Thou, JEHOVAH, art OUR FATHER, our REDEEMER; thy name is from an age,"
Isaiah lxiii. 16. Again, "Jesus said, He that seeth ME, seeth the FATHER that sent ME," John
xii. 45. "If ye have known ME, ye have known my FATHER also; and henceforth ye have known him,
and have seen him," John xiv. 7. "Philip said, Shew us the FATHER: Jesus said unto him, He
that seeth me, seeth the FATHER; how sayest them then, Shew us the FATHER?" John xiv. 8, 9.
"Jesus said, The FATHER and I are one," John x. 30. "All things that the FATHER hath are MINE,"
John xvi. 15; chap. xvii. 10. "The FATHER is in ME, and I IN THE FATHER," John x. 38; chap,
xiv 10, 11, 20. That the Lord and his Father are one, as the soul and the body are one, and
that God the Father descended from heaven, and assumed the human (nature or principle), to
redeem and save men, and that his human nature is what is called the Son, and is said to be
sent into the world, has been fully shewn in the APOCALYPSE REVEALED.

119. The church is called a mother, as appears from the following passages: "Jehovah said,
Contend with YOUR MOTHER: she is not MY WIFE, and I am not her HUSBAND." Hosea ii. 2, 5. "Thou
art thy MOTHER'S daughter, that loatheth her HUSBAND," Ezek. xvi. 45. "Where is the hill of
thy MOTHER'S divorcement, whom I have put away?" Isaiah l. 1. "Thy MOTHER was like a vine planted
by the waters, bearing fruit," Ezek. xix. 10; speaking of the Jewish church. 49, 50; Mark iii.
33-35: the Lord's disciples means the church. 25-27. This implies, that the Lord did not acknowledge
Mary as a mother, but the church; therefore he calls her Woman, and the disciple's mother.
The reason why the Lord called her the mother of this disciple, or of John, was, because John
represented the church as to the goods of charity, which are the church in real effect; therefore
it is said, He took her unto his own. Peter represented truth and faith, James charity, and
John the works of charity, as may be seen in the APOCALYPSE REVEALED, n. 5, 6, 790, 798, 879;
and the twelve disciples together represented the church as to all its constituent principles,
as may be seen, Ibid, n. 233, 790, 903, 915.

120. That no other than spiritual offspring are born of the Lord by the church, is a proposition
which wants no demonstration, because reason sees it to be self-evident; for it is the Lord
from whom every good and truth proceeds, and it is the church which receives them and brings
them into effect; and all the spiritual things of heaven and the church relate to good and
truth. Hence it is that sons and daughters in the Word, in its spiritual sense, signify truths
and goods: sons, truths conceived in the spiritual man, and born in, the natural; and daughters,
goods in like manner: therefore those who are regenerated by the Lord, are called in the Word
sons of God, sons of the kingdom, born of him; and the Lord called the disciples sons: the
male child, that the woman brought forth, and that was caught up to God, Rev. xii. 5, has a
similar signification; see APOCALYPSE REVEALED, n. 543. Since daughters signify goods of the
church, therefore in the Word mention is so frequently made of the daughter of Zion, the daughter
of Jerusalem, the daughter of Israel, and the daughter of Judah; by whom is signified not any
daughter, but the affection of good, which is an affection of the church; see also APOCALYPSE
REVEALED, n. 612. The Lord also calls those who are of his church, brethren and sisters; see
Matt. xii. 49, 50; chap. xxv. 40; chap, xxviii. 10; Mark iii. 35; Luke viii. 21.

121. The reason why truths and goods are the spiritual offspring, which are born of the Lord
by the church, is, because the Lord is essential good and essential truth, and these in him
are not two but one; also, because nothing can proceed from the Lord but what is in him, and
what he is. That the marriage of truth and good proceeds from the Lord, and flows in with men,
and is received according to the state of the mind and life of those who are of the church,
was shewn in the foregoing section on the MARRIAGE OF GOOD AND TRUTH. The reason why by means
of truths a man has understanding, perception, and all thought, and by means of goods has love,
charity, and all affection, is, because all things of man relate to truth and good; and there
are two constituents of man--the will and the understanding; the will being the receptacle
of good, and the understanding of truth. That love, charity and affection, belong to the will,
and that perception and thought belong to the understanding, may appear without the aid of
light arising from demonstration; for there is a light derived from the understanding itself
by which these propositions are seen to be self-evident.

122. The reason why a man receives truth by virtue of the good and truth which proceed as a
one from the Lord, is, because he receives this as his own, and appropriates it to himself
as his own; for he thinks what is true as from himself, and in like manner speaks from what
is true; and this takes place because truth is in the light of the understanding, and hence
he sees it: and whatever he sees in himself, or in his mind, he knows not whence it is; for
he does not see the influx, as he sees those objects which strike upon the bodily vision; hence
he supposes that it is himself. That it should appear thus, is granted by the Lord to him,
in order that he may be a man (homo), and that he may have a reciprocal principle of conjunction:
add to this, that every man is born a faculty of knowing, understanding, and growing wise;
and this faculty receives truths, whereby it has knowledges, intelligence, and wisdom. And
since the female was created through the truth of the male, and is formed into the love thereof
more and more after marriage, it follows, that she also receives the husband's truth in herself,
and conjoins it with her own good.

123. The Lord adjoins and conjoins good to the truths which a man receives, because he cannot
take good as of himself, it being no object of his sight, as it does not relate to light, but
to heat, which is felt and not seen; therefore when a man sees truth in his thought, he seldom
reflects upon the good which flows into it from the love of the will, and which gives it life:
neither does a wife reflect upon the good belonging to her, but upon the husband's inclination
towards her, which is according to the assent of his understanding to wisdom: the good which
belongs to her from the Lord, she applies, without the husband's knowing any thing respecting
such application. From these considerations then it plainly appears, that a man receives truth
from the Lord, and that the Lord adjoins good to that truth, according to the application of
truth to use; consequently as the man is desirous to think, and thence to live, wisely.

124. The church is thus formed with a man by the Lord, because in such case he is in conjunction
with the Lord, in good from Him, and in truth as from himself; thus he is in the Lord, and
the Lord in him, according to the Lord's words in John xv. 4:, 5. The case is the same, if
instead of good we say charity, and instead of truth faith; because good is of charity, and
truth is of faith.

125. It is a Common saying in the church, that as the Lord is the Head of the church, so the
husband is the head of the wife; whence it should follow, that the husband represents the Lord,
and the wife the church: but the Lord is the Head of the church; and man (homo), the man (vir)
and the woman, are the church; and still more the husband and wife together. With these the
church is first implanted in the man, and through him in the wife; because the man with his
understanding receives the truth of the church, and the wife from the man; but if it be vice
versa, it is not according to order: sometimes, however, this is the case; but then it is with
men, who either are not lovers of wisdom, and consequently are not of the church, or who are
in a servile dependence on the will of their wives. Something on this subject may be seen in
the preliminary RELATIONS, n. 21.

126. This follows as a consequence from what has just been said; to which, nevertheless, it
may be expedient to add, that it appears as if truth was the primary constituent of the church,
because it is first in respect to time: from this appearance, the prelates of the church have
exalted faith, which is of truth, above charity, which is of good; in like manner the learned
have exalted thought, which is of the understanding, above affection, which is of the will;
therefore the knowledge of what the good of charity and the affection of the will are, lies
deeply buried as in a tomb, while some even cast earth upon them, as upon the dead, to prevent
their rising again. That the good of charity, notwithstanding, is the primary constituent of
the church, may be plainly seen by those who have not closed the way from heaven to their understandings,
by confirmations in favor of faith, as the sole constituent of the church, and in favor of
thought, as the sole constituent of man. Now as the good of charity is from the Lord, and the
truth of faith is with a man as from himself, and these two principles cause conjunction of
the Lord with man, and of man with the Lord, such as is understood by the Lord's words, that
He is in them, and they in Him, John xv. 4, 5, it is evident that this conjunction constitutes
the church.

127. These, however, are arcana of too deep a nature to enter the understanding with any degree
of light, unless preceded by knowledge concerning correspondence; nor is it possible, if this
knowledge be wanting, so to explain them as to make them comprehensible. But what correspondence
is, and that it exists between natural things and spiritual, is abundantly shown in the APOCALYPSE
REVEALED, also in the ARCANA COELESTIA, and specifically in the DOCTRINE OF THE NEW JERUSALEM
CONCERNING THE SACRED SCRIPTURE, and particularly in a MEMORABLE RELATION respecting it in
the following pages. Before some knowledge on this subject is acquired, we will only present
to the intellectual view, as in a shade, these few particulars: conjugial love corresponds
to the affection of genuine truth, its chastity, purity, and sanctity; semination corresponds
to the potency of truth; prolification corresponds to the propagation of truth; and the love
of infants corresponds to the defence of truth and good. Now as truth with a man (homo) appears
as his own, and good is adjoined thereto from the Lord, it is evident that these correspondences
are those of the natural or external man with the spiritual or internal man: but some degree
of light will be reflected on this subject from the MEMORABLE RELATIONS which follow.

128. IX. THE WORD IS THE MEDIUM OF CONJUNCTION, BECAUSE IT IS FROM THE LORD, AND THEREFORE
IS THE LORD. The Word is the medium of conjunction of the Lord with man (homo), and of man
with the Lord, because in its essence it is divine truth united to divine good, and divine
good united to divine truth: that this union exists in every part of the Word in its celestial
and spiritual sense, may be seen in the APOCALYPSE REVEALED, n. 373, 483, 689, 881; whence
it follows, that the Word is the perfect marriage of good and truth; and as it is from the
Lord, and what is from him is also himself, it follows, that while a man reads the Word, and
collects truths out of it, the Lord adjoins good. For a man does not see the goods which affect
him in reading; because he reads the Word from the understanding, and the understanding acquires
thence only such things as are of its own nature, that is, truths. That good is adjoined thereto
from the Lord, is made sensible to the understanding from the delight which flows in during
a state of illustration; but this takes place interiorly with those only who read the Word
to the end that they may become wise; and such persons are desirous of learning the genuine
truths contained in the Word, and thereby of forming the church in themselves; whereas those
who read the Word only with a view to gain the reputation of learning, and those also who read
it from an opinion that the mere reading or hearing it inspires faith and conduces to salvation,
do not receive any good from the Lord; for the end proposed by the latter is to save themselves
by the mere expressions contained in the Word, in which there is nothing of truth; and the
end proposed by the former is to be distinguished for their learning; which end has no conjunction
with any spiritual good, but only with the natural delight arising from worldly glory. As the
Word is the medium of conjunction, it is therefore called the old and the new Covenant: a covenant
signifies conjunction.

129. X. THE CHURCH IS FROM THE LORD, AND EXISTS WITH THOSE WHO COME TO HIM AND LIVE ACCORDING
TO HIS PRECEPTS. It is not denied at this day that the church is the Lord's, and consequently
that it is from the Lord. The reason why it exists with those who come to him, is, because
his church in that part of the globe which is called Christian, is derived from the Word; and
the Word is from him, and in such a manner from him, that it is himself, the divine truth being
therein united to the divine good, and this also is the Lord. This is meant by the Word, "which
was with God, and which was God, from which men have life and light, and which was made flesh,"
John i. 1-14. Moreover, the reason why the church exists with those who come to him, is, because
it exists with those who believe in him; and to believe that he is God the Saviour and Redeemer,
that he is Jehovah our justice, that he is the door by which we are to enter into the sheepfold,
that is, into the church, that he is the way, the truth, and the life, and that no one comes
to the Father but by him, that the Father and he are one, besides many other particulars which
he himself teaches; to believe these things, I say, is impossible for any one, except by influence
from him; and the reason why this is impossible unless he be approached, is, because he is
the God of heaven and earth, as he also teaches. Who else is to be approached, and who else
can be? The reason why the church exists with those who live according to his precepts, is,
because there is conjunction with none else; for he says, "He that hath my precepts, and doeth
them, he it is that loveth me; and I will love him, and will make my abode with him: but he
that doth not love me, doth not keep my precepts," John XIV. 21-24. Love is conjunction; and
conjunction with the Lord is the church.

130. That conjugial love is according to the state of wisdom with man, has been often said
above, and will be often repeated in the following pages: at present therefore we will show
what wisdom is, and that it makes one with the church. "There are belonging to man knowledge,
intelligence, and wisdom. Knowledge relates to information; intelligence, to reason; and wisdom
to life. Wisdom considered in its fulness relates at the same time to information, to reason,
and to life: information precedes, reason is formed by it, and wisdom by both; as is the case
when a man lives rationally according to the truths which he knows. Wisdom therefore relates
to both reason and life at once; and it becomes (or is making) wisdom while it is a principle
of reason and thence of life; but it is wisdom when it is made a principle of life and thence
of reason. The most ancient people in this world acknowledged no other wisdom than the wisdom
of life; which was the wisdom of those who were formerly called SOPHI: but the ancient people,
who succeeded the most ancient, acknowledged the wisdom of reason as wisdom; and these were
called PHILOSOPHERS. At this day, however, many call even knowledge, wisdom; for the learned,
the erudite, and the mere sciolists, are called wise; thus wisdom has declined from its mountain-top
to its valley. But it may be expedient briefly to shew what wisdom is in its rise, in its progress,
and thence in its full state. The things relating to the church, which are called spiritual,
reside in the inmost principles with man; those relating to the public weal, which are called
things of a civil nature, hold a place below these; and those relating to science, to experience,
and to art, which are called natural things, constitute their seat or basis. The reason why
the things relating to science, to experience, and to art, which are called natural, constitute
their seat or basis, is, because they conjoin themselves closely with the five bodily senses;
and these senses are the ultimates on which the interior principles of the mind and the inmost
principles of the soul, as it were sit or rest. Now as spiritual things are in the light of
heaven, it is evident that by their light they illustrate the things which succeed in order,
and by their heat, which is love, animate them; and when this is the case the man has wisdom.
As wisdom is a principle of life, and thence of reason, as was said above, it may be asked,
What is wisdom as a principle of life? In a summary view, it is to shun evils, because they
are hurtful to the soul, to the public weal, and to the body; and it is to do goods, because
they are profitable to the soul, to the public weal, and to the body. This is the wisdom which
is meant by the wisdom to which conjugial love binds itself; for it binds itself thereto by
shunning the evil of adultery as the pest of the soul, of the public weal, and of the body:
and as this wisdom originates in spiritual things relating to the church, it follows, that
conjugial love is according to the state of the church; because it is according to the state
of wisdom with men. Hereby also is understood what has been frequently said above, that so
far as a man becomes spiritual, so far he is principled in love truly conjugial; for a man
becomes spiritual by means of the spiritual things of the church." More observations respecting
the wisdom with which conjugial love conjoins itself, may be seen below, n. 163-165.

131. XII. AND AS THE CHURCH IS FROM THE LORD, CONJUGIAL LOVE IS ALSO FROM HIM. As this follows
as a consequence from what has been said above, it is needless to dwell upon the confirmation
of it. Moreover, that love truly conjugial is from the Lord, all the angels of heaven testify;
and also that this love is according to their state of wisdom, and that their state of wisdom
is according to the state of the church with them. That the angels of heaven thus testify,
is evident from the MEMORABLE RELATIONS annexed to the chapters, containing an account of what
was seen and heard in the spiritual world.

       *       *       *       *       *

132. To the above I shall add TWO MEMORABLE RELATIONS. FIRST. I was conversing on a time with
two angels, one from the eastern heaven and the other from the southern; who perceiving me
engaged in meditation on the arcana of wisdom relating to conjugial love, said, "Are you at
all acquainted with the SCHOOLS OF WISDOM in our world?" I replied, "Not as yet." And they
said, "There are several; and those who love truths from spiritual affection, or because they
are truths, and because they are the means of attaining wisdom, meet together on a given signal,
and investigate and decide upon such questions as require deeper consideration than common."
They then took me by the hand, saying, "Follow us; and you shall see and hear: to-day the signal
for meeting is given." I was led across a plain to a hill; and lo! at the foot of the hill
was an avenue of palms continued even to its summit, which we entered and ascended: on the
summit or top of the hill was a grove, the trees of which, on an elevated plot of ground, formed
as it were a theatre, within which was a court paved with various colored stones: around it
in a square form were placed seats, on which the lovers of wisdom were seated; and in the middle
of the theatre was a table, on which was laid a sealed paper. Those who sat on the seats invited
us to sit down where there was room: and I replied, "I was led here by two angels to see and
hear, and not to sit down." Then those two angels went into the middle of the court to the
table, and broke the seal of the paper, and read in the presence of those who were seated the
arcana of wisdom written on the paper, which were now to be investigated and explained. They
were written by angels of the third heaven, and let down upon the table. There were three arcana,
FIRST, What is the image of God, and what the likeness of God, into which man (homo) was created?
SECOND, Why is not a man born into the knowledge of any love, when yet beasts and birds, from
the highest to the lowest, are born into the knowledge of all their loves? THIRD, What is signified
by the tree of life, and what by the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and what by eating
thereof? Underneath was written, Collect your opinions on these three questions into one decision,
and write it on a new piece of paper, and lay it on this table, and we shall see it: if the
decision, on examination, appear just and reasonable, each of you shall receive a prize of
wisdom. Having read the contents of the paper, the two angels withdrew, and were carried up
into their respective heavens.

