By the bye (Vol. ii., p. 424.).--As no one of your correspondents has answered the Query of
J. R. N., as to the etymology and meaning of by the bye and by and by, I send you the following
exposition; which I have collected from Richardson's Dictionary, and the authorities there
referred to.

Spelman informs us, that in Norfolk there were in his time thirteen villages with names ending
in by: this By being a Danish word, signifying "villa." That a bye-law, Dan. by-lage, is a
law peculiar to a villa. And thus we have the general application of bye to any thing; peculiar,
private, indirect, as distinguished from the direct or main: as, bye-ways, bye-talk, &c. &c.
In the trial of Sir Walter Raleigh, State Trials, James I., 1603, are these words:--

    "You are fools; you are on the bye, Raleigh and I are on the main.
    We mean to take away the king and his cubs."

Here the contradistinction is manifest. Lord Bacon and B. Jonson write, on the by; as if, on
the way, in passing, indirectly:--

    "'There is, upon the by, to be noted.'--'Those who have seluted
    poetry on the by'--such being a collateral, and not the main object
    of pursuit."

This I think is clear and satisfactory.

By and by is quite a different matter. Mr. Tyrwhitt, upon the line in Chaucer,--

    "These were his words by and by."--R. R. 4581.

interprets "separately, distinctly;" and there are various other instances in Chaucer admitting
the same interpretation:--

 "Two yonge knightes ligging, by and by."--Kn. T., v. 1016.

 "His doughter had a bed all by hireselve,
  Right in the same chambre by and by."--The Reves T., v. 4441.

So also in the "Floure and the Leafe," stanzas 9 and 24. The latter I will quote, as it is
much to the purpose:--

     "The semes (of the surcote) echon,
  As it were a maner garnishing,
  Was set with emerauds, one and one,
  By and by."

But there are more ancient usages, e.g. in R. Brunne, bearing also the same interpretation.
"The chartre was read ilk poynt bi and bi:" William had taken the homage of barons "bi and
bi." He assayed (i.e. tried) "tham (the horses) bi and bi."

Richardson's conception is, that there is a subaudition in all these expressions; and that
the meaning is, by point and by point; by baron and by baron; by horse and by horse: one and
one, as Chaucer writes; each one separately, by him or it-self. And thus, that by and by may
be explained, by one and by one; distinctly, both in space or time. Our modern usage is restricted
to time, as, "I will do so by and by:" where by and by is equivalent to anon, i.e. in one (moment,
instant, &c.). And so--

GOOD B'YE.

Bloomsbury.

Clement's Inn (Vol. iii., p. 84.).--This inn was neither "a court of law" nor "an inn of court,"
but "an inn of chancery;" according to the distinction drawn by Sir John Fortescue, in his
De Laudibus Legum Angliæ, chap. xlix., written between 1460 and 1470.

The evidence of its antiquity is traced back to an earlier date than 1486; for, according to
Dugdale (Orig., p. 187.), in a Record of Michaelmas, 19 Edward IV., 1479, it is spoken of as
then, and diu ante, an Inn "hominum Curiæ Legis temporalis, necnon hominum Consiliariorum ejusdem
Legis."

The early history of the Inns of Court and Chancery is involved in the greatest obscurity;
and it is difficult to account for the original difference between the two denominations.

Any facts which your correspondents may be able to communicate on this subject, or in reference
to what were the ten Inns of Chancery existing in Fortescue's time, but not named by him, or
relating to the history of either of the Inns, whether of Court or Chancery, will be most gratefully
received by me, and be of important service at the present time, when I am preparing {110}
for the press my two next volumes of The Judges of England.

EDWARD FOSS.

Street-End House, near Canterbury.

Words are men's daughters (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--I take this to be a proverbial sentence. In
the Gnomologia of Fuller we have "Words are for women; actions for men"--but there is a nearer
approach to it in a letter written by Sir Thomas Bodley to his librarian about the year 1604.
He says,

    "Sir John Parker hath promised more than you have signified: but words
    are women, and deeds are men."

It was no doubt an adoption of the worthy knight, and I shall leave it to others to trace out
the true author--hoping it may never be ascribed to an ancestor of

BOLTON CORNEY.

Passage in St. Mark (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--Irenæus is considered the best (if not the only) commentator
among the very early Fathers upon those words in Mark xiii. 32. "[Greek: oude ho huios?]" and
though I cannot refer CALMET further than to the author's works, he can trust the general accuracy
of the following translation:--

    "Our Lord himself," says he, "the Son of God, acknowledged that the
    Father only knew the day and hour of judgment, declaring expressly,
    that of that day and hour knoweth no one, neither the Son, but the
    Father only. Now, if the Son himself was not ashamed to leave the
    knowledge of that day to the Father, but plainly declared the truth;
    neither ought we to be ashamed to leave to God such questions as are
    too high for us. For if any one inquires why the Father, who
    communicates in all things to the Son, is yet by our Lord declared to
    know alone that day and hour, he cannot at present find any better, or
    more decent, or indeed any other safe answer at all, than this, that
    since our Lord is the only teacher of truth, we should learn of him,
    that the Father is above all; for the Son saith, 'He is greater than
    I.' The Father, therefore, is by Our Lord declared to be superior even
    in knowledge also; to this end, that we, while we continue in this
    world, may learn to acknowledge God only to have perfect knowledge, and
    leave such questions to him; and (put a stop to our presumption), lest
    curiously inquiring into the greatness of the Father, we run at last
    into so great a danger, as to ask whether even above God there be not
    another God."

BLOWEN.

"And Coxcombs vanquish Berkeley by a Grin" (Vol. i., p. 384.).--This line is taken from Dr.
Brown's Essay on Satire, part ii. v. 224. The entire couplet is--

 "Truth's sacred fort th' exploded laugh shall win,
  And coxcombs vanquish Berkeley by a grin."

Dr. Brown's Essay is prefixed to Pope's "Essay on Man" in Warburton's edition of Pope's Works.
(See vol. iii. p. 15., edit. 1770, 8vo.)

Dr. Trusler's Memoirs (Vol. iii., p. 61.).--The first part of Dr. Trusler's Memoirs (Bath,
1806), mentioned by your correspondent, but which is not very scarce, is the only one published.
I have the continuation in the Doctor's Autograph, which is exceedingly entertaining and curious,
and full of anecdotes of his contemporaries. It is closely written in two 8vo. volumes, and
comprises 554 pages, and appears to have been finally revised for publication. Why it never
appeared I do not know. He was a very extraordinary and ingenious man, and wrote upon everything,
from farriery to carving. With life in all its varieties he was perfectly acquainted, and had
personally known almost every eminent man of his day. He had experienced every variety of fortune,
but seems to have died in very reduced circumstances. The Sententiæ Variorum referred to by
your correspondent is, I presume, what was published under the title of--

    "Detached Philosophic Thoughts of near 300 of the best Writers, Ancient
    and Modern, on Man, Life, Death, and Immortality, systematically
    arranged under the Authors' Names." 2 vols. 12mo. 1810.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Manchester, Jan. 25. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

