We now come to that absorbing period of Burton's life which is connected principally with The
Arabian Nights. Amazing as the statement may seem, we feel ourselves compelled to say at once,
though regretfully, that Burton's own account of the history of the translation, given in his
Translator's Foreword to the Arabian Nights, and Lady Burton's account, given in her life of
her husband, do not tally with the facts as revealed in his letters. In matters relating to
his own history Burton often spoke with amazing recklessness, [340] and perhaps he considered
he was justified in stating that his translation of The Arabian Nights was well advanced by
November 1881, seeing that it had for thirty years intermittently occupied his thoughts. As
regards Lady Burton, no doubt, of some of the facts presently to be given, she was unaware.
But she was one who easily deceived herself. Whatever she wished, she was apt to believe. The
actual facts compiled from existing documentary evidence--including Burton's own letters--will
now be revealed for the first time; and it will be found, as is generally the case, that the
unembroidered truth is more interesting than the romance. The story is strangely paralleled
by that of the writing of The Kasidah; or in other words it recalls traits that were eminently
characteristic of Burton. As early as 1854, as we have seen, Burton and Steinhauser had planned
a translation of The Arabian Nights, Steinhauser was to furnish the prose, Burton the poetry.
They corresponded on the subject, but made only trifling progress. Steinhauser died in 1866,
his manuscripts were scattered, and Burton never heard of them again. Absolutely nothing more
was done, for Burton was occupied with other matters--travelling all over the world and writing
piles of voluminous books on other subjects. Still, he had hoards of Eastern manuscripts, and
notes of his own on Eastern manners and customs, which had for years been accumulating and
an even greater mass of curious information had been stored in his brain. Again and again he
had promised himself to proceed, but something every time hindered.

In November 1881, Burton, who was then at Trieste, noticed a paragraph in The Athenaeum [341]
to the effect that Mr. John Payne, the well-known author of The Masque of Shadows and of a
famous rendering of The Poems of Francois Villon, was about to issue a Translation of The Book
of the Thousand Nights and one Nights. Burton, who was an enthusiastic admirer of the Villon
and who, moreover, had not relinquished his own scheme, though it had lain so long quiescent,
wrote at once to The Athenaeum a letter which appeared on 26th November 1881. He said: "Many
years ago, in collaboration with my old and lamented friend, Dr. F. Steinhauser, of the Bombay
Army, I began to translate the whole [342] of The Thousand Nights and a Night. The book, mutilated
in Europe to a collection of fairy tales, and miscalled the Arabian Nights, is unique as a
study of anthropology. It is a marvellous picture of Oriental life; its shiftings are those
of the kaleidoscope. Its alternation of pathos and bathos--of the boldest poetry (the diction
of Job) with the baldest prose (the Egyptian of to-day) and finally, its contrast of the highest
and purest morality with the orgies of Apuleius and Petronius Arbiter, take away the reader's
breath. I determined to render every word with the literalism of Urquhart's Rabelais, and to
save the publisher trouble by printing my translation at Brussels.

"Not non omnia possumus. Although a host of friends has been eager to subscribe, my work is
still unfinished, nor could it be finished without a year's hard labour. I rejoice, therefore,
to see that Mr. John Payne, under the Villon Society, has addressed himself to a realistic
translation without 'abridgments or suppressions.' I have only to wish him success, and to
express a hope that he is resolved verbum reddere verbo, without deference to any prejudice
which would prevent his being perfectly truthful to the original. I want to see that the book
has fair play; and if it is not treated as it deserves, I shall still have to print my own
version. [343] 'Villon,' however, makes me hope for the best."

In this letter Burton oddly enough speaks of his own work as "still unfinished." This was quite
true, seeing that it was not even begun, unless two or three pages which he once showed to
Mr. Watts-Dunton, [344] and the pigeon-holing of notes be regarded as a commencement. Still,
the announcement of Mr. Payne's edition--the first volume of which was actually in the press--must
have caused him a pang; and the sincere good wishes for his rival's success testify to the
nobility, unselfishness and magnanimity of his character.

Mr. Payne, supposing from his letter that Burton had made considerable progress with his translation,
wrote on November 28th to Burton, and, using the words Tantus labor non sit cassus, suggested
collaboration. Thus commenced one of the most interesting friendships in the annals of literature.
Before relating the story, however, it will be helpful to set down some particulars of the
career of Mr. Payne. John Payne was born in 1842 of a Devonshire family, descended from that
breezy old sea-dog, Sir John Hawkins. Mr. Payne, indeed, resembles Hawkins in appearance. He
is an Elizabethan transferred bodily into the 19th and 20th centuries, his ruff lost in transit.
Yet he not infrequently has a ruff even--a live one, for it is no uncommon event to see his
favourite Angora leap on to his shoulders and coil himself half round his master's neck, looking
not unlike a lady's boa--and its name, Parthenopaeus, is long enough even for that. For years
Mr. Payne followed the law, and with success, but his heart was with the Muses and the odorous
East. From a boy he had loved and studied the old English, Scotch and Welsh writers, with the
result that all his productions have a mediaeval aroma. The Faerie Queene, Chaucer and his
successors--the Scottish poets of the 15th and 16th Centuries, The Morte d'Arthur, the authorised
version of the Bible and North's Plutarch have always lain at his elbow. Then, too, with Dante,
Shakespeare and Heine's poems he is supersaturated; but the authorised version of the Bible
has had more influence on him than any other book, and he has so loved and studied it from
boyhood that he had assimilated its processes and learned the secrets of the interior mechanism
of its style. It is not surprising that his first publication should have been a book of poetry.
The merits of The Masque of Shadows and other Poems were acknowledged on all sides. It was
seen that the art of ballad writing--which Goethe calls the most difficult of arts--was not,
as some averred, a forgotten one. The Masque of Shadows itself is melodious and vivid from
the first line to the end, but the captain jewel is the necromantic and thrilling Rime of Redemption--the
story of a woman who erred and of a man who prayed and wrestled with God in prayer for her,
and ultimately wrung her salvation by self-sacrifice from Divine Justice. Here and there are
passages that we could have wished modified, but surely such a terrific fantasy was never before
penned! It is as harrowing as The Ancient Mariner, and appeals to one more forcibly than Coleridge's
"Rime," because it seems actual truth. Other volumes, containing impassioned ballads, lyrics,
narrative poems and sonnets, came from Mr. Payne's pen. His poems have the rush and bound of
a Scotch waterfall. This is explained by the fact that they are written in moments of physical
and mental exaltation. Only a mind in a quasi-delirious state, to be likened to that of the
pythoness on the tripod, could have evolved the Rime of Redemption [345] or Thorgerda [346].
No subject comes amiss to him. His chemic power turns everything to gold. "He sees everything,"
as Mr. Watts-Dunton once said to the writer--"through the gauze of poetry." His love for beautiful
words and phrases leads him to express his thoughts in the choicest language. He puts his costliest
wine in myrrhine vases; he builds his temple with the lordliest cedars. Mr. Payne does not
write for the multitude, but few poets of the day have a more devoted band of admirers. Some
readers will express a preference for The Building of the Dream, [347] others for Lautrec [348]
or Salvestra [349], and others for the dazzling and mellifluous Prelude to Hafiz. Mr. A. C.
Swinburne eulogised the "exquisite and clear cut Intaglios." [350] D. G. Rossetti revelled
in the Sonnets; Theodore de Banville, "roi des rimes," in the Songs of Life and Death, whose
beauties blend like the tints in jewels. [351]

Mr. Payne first took up the work of a translator in 1878, his earliest achievement in the new
province being his admirable rendering of Villon, in which he gives the music of the thief
poet, and all his humour, and this reminds us that Mr. Payne, unlike most poets, is a skilled
musician. Of his life, indeed, music, in its most advanced and audacious manifestations had
always been as much an essential a part as literature, hence the wonderful melodic effects
of the more remarkable of his poems. Already an excellent Arabic scholar, he had as early as
1875 resolved upon a translation of The Arabian Nights, and he commenced the task in earnest
on 5th February 1877. He worked with exhausting sedulity and expended upon it all the gifts
in his power, with the result that his work has taken its places as a classic. The price was
nine guineas. Imagining that the demand for so expensive a work would not be large, Mr. Payne,
unfortunately, limited himself to the publication of only 500 copies. The demand exceeded 2,000,
so 1,500 persons were disappointed.

It was at this moment that Mr. Payne became acquainted with Burton. Mr. Payne admired Burton
as a traveller, an explorer, and a linguist, and recognised the fact that no man had a more
intimate knowledge of the manners and customs of the East; and Burton on his part paid high
tribute to Mr. Payne's gifts as a translator and a poet.

When Mr. Payne's letter reached Trieste, Burton had just started off, with Commander Verney
Lovett Cameron, on an expedition to the Gold Coast. In his Fernando Po period he had, as we
have seen, been deeply interested in the gold digging and gold washing industries, [353] had
himself, indeed, to use his own words, "discovered several gold mines on that coast." For years
his mind had turned wistfully towards those regions, and at last, early in 1881, he was able
to enter into an arrangement with a private speculator concerning the supposed mines. He and
Cameron were to have all their expenses paid, and certain shares upon the formulation of the
company. The travellers left Trieste on November 18th, being accompanied as far as Fiume by
Mrs. Burton and Lisa, who on the 25th returned to Trieste; and on December 17th they reached
Lisbon, whither Mr. Payne's letter followed them. Burton, who replied cordially, said "In April,
at the latest, I hope to have the pleasure of shaking hands with you in London, and then we
will talk over the 1,000 Nights and a Night. At present it is useless to say anything more
than this--I shall be most happy to collaborate with you..... Do you know the Rev. G. Percy
Badger (of the Dictionary)? If not, you should make his acquaintance, as he is familiar with
the Persian and to a certain extent with the Egyptian terms of the Nights. He is very obliging
and ready to assist Arabists [354]..... I am an immense admirer of your Villon."

Writing to Burton early in the year Payne observed that as his first volume was in type, apparently
it should at once go to press, but that he would be pleased to submit subsequent volumes to
Burton. Terms were also suggested.

Burton's reply, addressed Axim, Gold Coast, and received by Mr. Payne, 20th March, 1882, runs
as follows: "I received your welcome letter by the steamer of yesterday, and to-morrow morning
my companion Cameron and I again proceed to the 'bush.' Of course you must go to press at once.
I deeply regret it, but on arriving in England my time will be so completely taken up by the
Gold Coast that I shall not have a moment's leisure. It would be a useless expense to keep
up the type. Your terms about the royalty," he said, "are more than liberal. I cannot accept
them, however, except for value received, and it remains to be seen what time is at my disposal.
I am working out a scheme for Chinese immigration to the West African coast, and this may take
me next winter to China. I can only say that I shall be most happy to render you any assistance
in my power; at the same time I must warn you that I am a rolling stone. If I cannot find time
you must apply in the matter of the introductory essay to the Rev. Percy Badger, Professor
Robertson Smith (Glasgow) and Professor Palmer (Trinity, Cambridge). I have booked your private
address and have now only to reciprocate your good wishes."

On April 18th Mrs. Burton and Lisa set out for England in order to rejoin Burton--Lisa, as
usual, without any headgear--a condition of affairs which in every church they entered caused
friction with the officials. When this began Mrs. Burton would explain the position; and the
officials, when they came to find that nothing they could say or do make the slightest difference
to Lisa, invariably expressed themselves satisfied with the explanation.

Burton and Cameron reached Liverpool on May 20th, and were able to report both "that there
was plenty of gold, and that the mines could easily be worked." The expedition, however, was
unproductive of all anticipated results and no profit accrued to Burton. Indeed it was Iceland
and Midian over again. "I ought," he says in one of his letters to Payne, "to go down to history
as the man who rediscovered one Gold Country and rehabilitated a second, and yet lost heavily
by the discoveries." [355]

Chapter XXIII. 20th May 1882-July 1883, The Meeting of Burton and Payne

Bibliography

66. Lord Beaconsfield. 67. To the Gold Coast for Gold. 2 vols. 1883. 68. Stone Implements from
the Gold Coast. Burton and Cameron.

106. Mrs. Grundy begins to roar. May 1882.

In May 1882, Burton called on Mr. Payne, and the matter of The Arabian Nights was fully discussed.
It then transpired that Burton's project was still entirely in nubibus. He told Mr. Payne that
he had no manuscript of any kind beyond "a sheet or two of notes," [356] and it was afterwards
gathered from his words that these notes were a mere syllabus of the contents of the Boulac
edition of the Nights--the only one of the four printed texts (Calcutta, Macnaghten, Boulac
and Breslau) used and combined by Mr. Payne with which Burton was then acquainted. [357] Mr.
Payne's first volume was completely in type and had for some weeks been held over for Burton's
return to England. Of the remaining volumes three were ready for press, and the rest only awaited
fair copying. Burton's thoughts, however, were then completely occupied with the Gold Coast,
consequently the whole project of collaboration fell through. Mr. Payne's first volume duly
appeared; and as the result of further conversations it was arranged that Burton should read
Mr. Payne's subsequent proofs, though he declined to accept any remuneration unless it should
turn out that his assistance was necessary. In June, Mr. Payne submitted the first proofs of
Vol. ii. to Burton. Meantime the literalism of Mr. Payne's translation had created extraordinary
stir, and Burton wrote thus forcefully on the matter (June 3rd): "Please send me a lot of advertisements.
[358] I can place a multitude of copies. Mrs. Grundy is beginning to roar; already I hear the
voice of her. And I know her to be an arrant w---- and tell her so, and don't care a -----
for her."

The event at Trieste that summer was the opening of a Grand International Exhibition--the hobby
of the Governor of the town--Baron de Pretis, and Burton thus refers to it in a letter written
to Mr. Payne, 5th August (1882). "We arrived here just in time for the opening of the Exhibition,
August 1st. Everything went off well, but next evening an Orsini shell was thrown which killed
one and wounded five, including my friend Dr. Dorn, Editor of the Triester Zeitung. The object,
of course, was to injure the Exhibition, and the effect will be ruinous. I expect more to come
and dare not leave my post. So while my wife goes to Marienbad, I must content myself with
the Baths at Monfalcone, [359] distant only one hour by rail" In the next letter (August 14th)
Burton refers to a proposed special quarto (large paper) edition of Mr. Payne's Nights, the
scheme for which, however, fell through. "I am delighted with the idea," he says, "for though
not a bibliophile in practice (£ s. d. preventing) I am entirely in theory." There is also
an amusing reference to a clergyman who after giving his name for a copy withdrew it. Says
Burton, "If the Rev. A. miss this opportunity of grace he can blame only himself. It is very
sad but not to be helped.... And now good luck to the venture." Later he observes, "The fair
sex appears wild to get at the Nights. [360] I have received notes from two upon the nice subject,
with no end of complaints about stern parients, brothers and brothers-in-law."

In September Burton asks for the loan of Payne's copy of the Calcutta Edition (Macnaghten)
and enquires after Vol. i. He says "What news of Vol. i.? I am very anxious to see it, and
so are many female correspondents. I look forward with great pleasure to the work."

It was now understood that an attack was to be made on Payne's volume in the press. Says Burton,
September 29th (1882). "Perhaps it will be best to let ------- [361] sing his song. --------
has no end of enemies, and I can stir up a small wasp's nest without once appearing in the
matter. The best answer will be showing up a few of Lane's mistakes, but this must be done
with the greatest care, so that no hole can be picked in the critique. [362] I enclose three
sonnets, a specimen of my next volume of Camoens, and should much like any suggestions from
you. They are line for line and mostly word for word. But that is nothing; the question is,
are they readable English? They'll be printed at my own expense, so they will ruin nobody.
Switzerland has set you up and don't let the solicitor's office pull you down."

On October 2nd he says: "Glad to hear of a new edition of Lane: it will draw attention to the
subject. I must see what can be done with reviewers. Saturday and I are at drawn daggers, and
--------of ------ is such a stiff young she-prig that I hardly know what to do about him. However,
I shall begin work at once by writing and collecting the vulnerable points of the clique. -----
is a very much hated man, and there will be no difficulty." On the 8th, in reference to the
opposing "clique," Burton writes: "In my own case I should encourage a row with this bete noire;
but I can readily understand your having reasons for wishing to keep it quiet." Naturally,
considering the tactics that were being employed against them, the Villon Society, which published
Mr. Payne's works, had no wish to draw the attention of the authorities to the moral question.
Indeed, of the possible action of the authorities, as instigated by the clique, the Society
stood in some fear.

Burton goes on: "I shall write to-day to T----- to know how ---- is best hit. T----- hates
me--so do most people. Meanwhile, you must (either yourself or by proxy) get a list of Lane's
laches. I regret to say my copy of his Modern Egyptians has been lost or stolen, and with it
are gone the lists of his errata I had drawn up many years ago. Of course I don't know Arabic,
but who does? One may know a part of it, a corner of the field, but all! Bah! Many thanks for
the notes on the three sonnets [Camoens]. Most hearty thanks for the trouble you have taken.
The remarks are those of a scholar and a translator."

Later, Burton sent Payne other Camoens sonnets to look over. Writing on 29th October 1882,
he says, "Many thanks for the sonnet. Your version is right good, but it is yourself, not me.
In such a matter each man expresses his own individuality. I shall follow your advice about
the quatrains and tercets. No. 19 is one of the darkest on account of its extreme simplicity.
I shall trouble you again."

The first proofs (pp. 1-144) of Vol. ii. were read by Burton in October 1882, and returned
by him October 21st. In his letter to Mr. Payne of that date he says, "It will only be prudent
to prepare for an attack. I am perfectly ready to justify a complete translation of the book.
And if I am obliged to say what I think about Lane's Edition there will be hard hitting. Of
course I wish to leave his bones in peace, but --- may make that impossible. Curious to see
three editions of the 1,000 Nights advertised at the same time, not to speak of the bastard.
[363] I return you nine sheets [of proofs] by parcels post registered. You have done your work
very well, and my part is confined to a very small amount of scribble which you will rub out
at discretion."

Subsequently Burton observed that Mr. Payne required no assistance of any kind; and therefore
he re-refused to accept remuneration for reading the proofs. Naturally, they differed, as Arabists
all do, upon certain points, but on all subjects save two Burton allowed that Mr. Payne's opinion
was as good as his own.

The first concerned the jingles in the prose portions of the Nights, such as "The trees are
growing and the waters flowing and Allah all good bestowing." Burton wanted them to be preserved,
but to this Mr. Payne could not consent, and he gives the reasons in his Terminal Essay. The
second exception was the treatment of the passages referring to a particular subject; and this
indicates to us clearly the difference in the ideas and aims of the two men. Of artistry, of
what FitzGerald calls "sinking and reducing," Burton had no notion. "If anything is in any
redaction of the original, in it should go," he said. "Never mind how shocking it may be to
modern and western minds. If I sin, I sin in good company--in the company of the authors of
the Authorised Version of the Bible, who did not hesitate to render literatim certain passages
which persons aiming simply at artistic effect would certainly have omitted."

Payne on the other hand was inclined to minimise these passages as much as possible. Though
determined that his translation should be a complete one, yet he entirely omitted coarsenesses
whenever he could find excuse to do so--that is to say, when they did not appear in all the
texts. If no such excuse existed he clothed the idea in skilful language. [364] Nothing is
omitted; but it is of course within the resources of literary art to say anything without real
offence. Burton, who had no aptitude for the task; who, moreover, had other aims, constantly
disagreed with Payne upon this point.

Thus, writing 12th May 1883, he says: "You are drawing it very mild. Has there been any unpleasantness
about plain speaking? Poor Abu Nuwas [365] is (as it were) castrated. I should say 'Be bold
or audace,' &c., only you know better than I do how far you can go and cannot go. I should
simply translate every word."

"What I meant by literalism," he says, 1st October 1883, "is literally translating each noun
(in the long lists which so often occur) in its turn, so that the student can use the translation."

This formed no part of Mr. Payne's scheme, in fact was directly opposed to the spirit of his
work, which was to make the translation, while quite faithful to the original, a monument of
noble English prose and verse.

"I hold the Nights," continues Burton, the best of class books, and when a man knows it, he
can get on with Arabs everywhere. He thus comments on Payne's Vol. iv., some of the tales of
which, translate them as you will, cannot be other than shocking. "Unfortunately it is these
offences (which come so naturally in Greece and Persia, and which belong strictly to their
fervid age) that give the book much of its ethnological value. I don't know if I ever mentioned
to you a paper (unpublished) of mine showing the geographical limits of the evil. [366] I shall
publish it some day and surprise the world. [367] I don't live in England, and I don't care
an asterisk for Public Opinion. [368] I would rather tread on Mrs. Grundy's pet corn than not,
she may howl on her *** *** to her heart's content." On August 24th (1883) Burton says, "Please
keep up in Vol. v. this literality in which you began. My test is that every Arab word should
have its equivalent English. ...Pity we can't manage to end every volume with a tidbit! Would
it be dishonest to transfer a tale from one night or nights to another or others? I fancy not,
as this is done in various editions. A glorious ending for Vol. iv. Would have been The Three
Wishes or the Night of Power [369] and The Cabinet with Five Shelves." [370]

107. The Search for Palmer, October 1882.

Burton was now to make what proved to be his last expedition. All the year Egypt had been ablaze
with the rebellion of Arabi Pasha. Alexandria was bombarded by the English on July 11th, Arabi
suffered defeat at Tell-el-Kebir three months later. On the commencement of the rebellion the
British Government sent out Burton's old friend Professor Palmer to the Sinaitic peninsula
with a view to winning the tribes in that part of the British side, and so preventing the destruction
of the Suez Canal. The expedition was atrociously planned, and the fatal mistake was also made
of providing it with £3,000 in gold. Palmer landed at Jaffa at the end of June, and then set
out via Gaza across the "Short Desert," for Suez, where he was joined by Captain Gill and Lieutenant
Charrington. In fancy one hears him as he enters on his perilous journey asking himself that
question, which was so absurdly frequent in his lips, "I wonder what will happen?"

It is customary for travellers, before entering the Arabian wastes, to hire a Ghafir, that
is, a guide and protector. Palmer, instead of securing a powerful chief, as the case required,
selected a man of small account named Matr Nassar, and this petty shaykh and his nephew were
the expedition's only defence.

The doomed party left Suez on August 8th. On the 10th at midnight they were attacked by the
Bedawin. "Palmer expostulated with his assassins; but all his sympathetic facility, his appeals
to Arab honour and superstition, his threats, his denunciations, and the gift of eloquence
which had so often prevailed with the wild men, were unheeded." As vainly, Matr Nassar [371]
covered his proteges with his aba [372] thus making them part of his own family. On the evening
of August 11th the captives were led to the high bank of the Wady Sudr, where it received another
and smaller fiumara yet unnamed, and bidden to prepare for death. Boldly facing his enemies,
Palmer cursed them [373] in Biblical language, and in the name of the Lord. But while the words
were in his mouth, a bullet struck him and he fell. His companions also fell in cold blood,
and the bodies of all three were thrown down the height [374]--a piteous denouement--and one
that has features in common with the tragic death scene of another heroic character of this
drama--General Gordon.

The English Government still believed and hoped that Palmer has escaped; and on October 17th
it sent a telegram to Burton bidding him go and assist in the search for his old friend.

Like the war horse in the Bible, the veteran traveller shouted "Aha!" and he shot across the
Mediterranean like a projectile from a cannon. But he had no sooner reached Suez than he heard--his
usual luck--that Sir Charles Warren, with 200 picked men, was scouring the peninsula, and that
consequently his own services would not be required. In six weeks he was back again at Trieste
and so ended Viator's [375] last expedition. The remains of Palmer and his two companions were
discovered by Sir Charles and sent to England to be interred in St. Paul's Cathedral. To Palmer's
merits as a man Burton paid glowing tributes; and he praised, too, Palmer's works, especially
The Life of Harun Al Raschid and the translations of Hafiz, [376] Zoheir and the Koran. Of
the last Mr. Stanley Lane-Poole says finely: It "has the true desert ring in it;.. the translator
has carried us among the Bedawin tents, and breathed into us the strong air of the desert,
till we fancy we can hear the rich voice of the Blessed Prophet himself as he spoke to the
pilgrims on Akabah."

In his letter to Payne of 23rd December 1882, Burton adumbrates a visit eastward. "After January,"
he says, "I shall run to the Greek Islands, and pick up my forgotten modern Greek." He was
unable, however, to carry out his plans in their entirety. On January 15th he thanks Payne
for the loan of the "Uncastrated Villon," [377] and the Calcutta and Breslau editions of the
Nights, and says "Your two vols. of Breslau and last proofs reached me yesterday. I had written
to old Quaritch for a loan of the Breslau edition. He very sensibly replied by ignoring the
loan and sending me a list of his prices. So then the thing dropped. What is the use of paying
£3 odd for a work that would be perfectly useless to me.... But he waxes cannier every year."

In 1883 the Burtons removed from their eyrie near the Railway Station and took up their abode
in a palazzone [378]--"the Palazzo Gosleth"--situated in a large garden, on the wooded promontory
that divides the city from the Bay of Muggia. It was one of the best houses in Trieste, and
boasted an entrance so wide that one could have driven a carriage into the hall, a polished
marble staircase and twenty large rooms commanding extensive and delightful views. The garden,
however, was the principal amenity. Here, in fez and dressing-gown, Burton used to sit and
write for hours with nothing to disturb him except the song of birds and the rustle of leaves.
In the Palazzo Gosleth he spent the last eight years of his life, and wrote most of his later
works.

Perhaps this is the best place to introduce a sheaf of miscellaneous unpublished anecdotes
which have been drawn together from various sources. We are uncertain as to their dates, but
all are authentic. To the ladies Burton was generally charming, but sometimes he behaved execrably.
Once when he was returning alone to Trieste, a lady past her prime, being destined for the
same place, asked whether she might accompany him. Burton, who hated taking care of anyone,
frowned and shook his head. "There can be no scandal, Captain Burton," pleaded the lady, "because
I am old."

"Madame," replied Burton, "while fully appreciating your kindness, I must decline. Had you
been young and good-looking I would have considered the matter."

109. Burton and Mrs. Disraeli.

But Burton could be agreeable enough even to plain ladies when he wished. In one of his books
or pamphlets he had said "There is no difference except civilization between a very old woman
and an ape." Some time after its publication, when he was the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Disraeli,
Mrs. Disraeli, herself both elderly and very plain, laid a plan to disconcert him. She seated
herself close to a low mirror, in the hopes that Burton would presently join her. He soon fell
into the trap and was observed a few minutes later leaning over her and "doing the amiable."

"Captain Burton," said Mrs. Disraeli, with affected annoyance, and pointing to her reflection,
"There must be an ape in the glass. Do you not see it?"

Burton instantly recalled the remark in his book, but without exhibiting the least disconcertion,
he replied, "Yaas, yaas, Madam, quite plainly; I see myself."

It was altogether impossible for Burton to do anything or to be in anything without causing
a commotion of some kind. Generally it was his own fault, but sometimes the Fates were to blame.
Few scenes at that period could have been more disgraceful than those at the official receptions
held in London by the Prime Minister. Far too many persons were invited and numbers behaved
more like untutored Zulus than civilised human beings.

"Now darling," said Mrs. Burton to her husband, just before one of these functions, "You are
to be amiable, remember, and not lose your temper." Burton readily promised compliance, but
that day, unfortunately, the crush on the staircase was particular disgraceful. Apparently
Burton, his wife on arm, was pushed on to the train of a lady in front of him, but whatever
he was doing the crush had rendered him helpless.

"Oh dear!" cried the lady, "this horrid man is choking me."

"It's that blackguard of a Burton!" followed the lady's husband.

Burton's eyes flashed and his lips went livid, "I'll have you out for this," he cried, "and
if you won't fight I'll thrash you like a dog."

"That's how you keep your promise," said Mrs. Burton to him, when they got home. "You don't
get half a dozen steps up the staircase before you have a row with someone." Then he burst
out with his "pebble on ice" laughter.

For Burton to overhear remarks uncomplimentary to himself was no uncommon occurrence, but he
rarely troubled to notice them. Now and again, however, as the previous anecdote shows, he
broke his rule. Once at a public gathering a lady said, loudly, to a companion, "There is that
infamous Captain Burton, I should like to know that he was down with some lingering and incurable
illness."

Burton turned round, and fixing his eyes upon her, said with gravity: "Madame, I have never
in all my life done anything so wicked as to express so shocking a wish as that."

The next anecdote shows how dangerous Burton could be to those who offended him. When the Sultan
of Zanzibar was paying a visit to England, Burton and the Rev. Percy Badger were singled out
to act as interpreters. But Burton had quarrelled with Badger about something or other; so
when they approached the Sultan, Burton began addressing him, not in Arabic, but in the Zanzibar
patois. The Sultan, after some conversation, turned to Badger, who, poor man, not being conversant
with the patois, could only stand still in the dunce's cap which Burton, as it were, had clapped
on him and look extremely foolish; while the bystanders nodded to each other and said, "Look
at that fellow. He can't say two words. He's a fraud." Burton revelled in Badger's discomfiture;
but a little later the two men were on good terms again; and when Badger died he was, of course,
Burton's "late lamented friend."

Another of Burton's aversions was "any old woman made up to look very young." "Good gracious,"
he said, one day to a painted lady of that category. "You haven't changed since I saw you forty
years ago. You're like the British flag that has braved a thousand years of the battle and
the breeze." But the lady heaped coals of fire on his head.

"Oh, Captain Burton," she cried, "how could you, with that musical--that lovely voice of yours--make
such very unpleasant remarks."

110. "I am an Old English Catholic."

In England, whatever objections Protestants may make to Roman Catholic services, they admit
that everything is done decently and in order. The laxity, however, in the Italian churches
is, or was until recently, beyond belief, and every traveller brought home some queer tale.
Mrs. Burton, who prided herself on being "an old English Catholic," was frequently distressed
by these irregularities, and she never hesitated to reprove the offending priests. One day
a priest who had called at Burton's house was requested to conduct a brief service in Mrs.
Burton's private chapel. But the way in which he went through the various ceremonies so displeased
Mrs. Burton that she called out to him, "Stop! stop! pardon me, I am an old English Catholic--and
therefore particular. You are not doing it right--Stand aside, please, and let me show you."
So the astonished priest stood aside, and Mrs. Burton went through all the gesticulations,
genuflexions, etcetera, in the most approved style. Burton, who was standing by, regarded the
scene with suppressed amusement. When all was over, he touched the priest on the shoulder and
said gravely and slowly, pointing to Mrs. Burton: "Do you know who this is? It is my wife.
And you know she will some day die--We all must die--And she will be judged--we must all be
judged--and there's a very long and black list against her. But when the sentence is being
pronounced she will jump up and say: 'Stop! stop! please pardon my interruption, but I am an
old English Catholic.'"

To one house, the hostess of which was one of the most fashionable women in London, Burton,
no matter how much pressed, had never been prevailed upon to go. He disliked the lady and that
was enough. "Here's an invitation for all of us to Lady ----'s," said Mrs. Burton to him one
day in honied tones. "Now, Dick, darling, this time you must go just for Lisa's sake. It's
a shame she should lose so excellent a chance of going into good society. Other people go,
why shouldn't we? Eh, darling?"

"What won't people do," growled Burton, "for the sake of a dinner!"

Eventually, however, after an explosion, and he'd be asterisked if he would, and might the
lady herself be asterisked, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, "Dick Darling" was coaxed over, and
he, Mrs. Burton and Lisa at the appointed time sallied forth in all the glory of war paint,
and in due course were ushered into the detested house.

As he approached the hostess she looked steadily at him through her lorgnon, and then, turning
to a companion, said with a drawl: "Isn't it horrid, my dear! Every Dick, Tom and Harry's here
to-night."

"That's what comes of being amiable," said Burton to his wife, when they got home again--and
he'd be asterisked, and might everybody else be asterisked, if he'd enter that asterisked house
again. Then the humour of it all appealed to him; and his anger dissolved into the usual hearty
laughter.

One very marked feature of Burton's character was that, like his father, he always endeavoured
to do and say what he thought was right, quite regardless of appearances and consequences.
And we may give one anecdote to illustrate our meaning.

On one occasion [379] he and another Englishman who was known by Burton to have degraded himself
unspeakably, were the guests at a country house. "Allow me, Captain Burton," said the host,
"to introduce you to the other principal guest of the evening, Mr. ----" Looking Mr. ---- in
the face, Burton said: "When I am in Persia I am a Persian, when in India a Hindu, but when
in England I am an English gentleman," and then he turned his back on Mr. ----and left him.
As Mr. ----'s record was not at the time generally known, those who were present at the scene
merely shrugged their shoulders and said: "Only another of Burton's eccentricities." A few
months, later, however, Mr. ---'s record received publicity, and Burton's conduct and words
were understood.

One of Burton's lady relations being about to marry a gentleman who was not only needy but
also brainless, somebody asked him what he thought of the bridegroom-elect.

"Not much," replied Burton, drily, "he has no furniture inside or out."

To "old maids" Burton was almost invariably cruel. He found something in them that roused all
the most devilish rancours in his nature; and he used to tell them tales till the poor ladies
did not know where to tuck their heads. When reproved afterwards by Mrs. Burton, he would say:
"Yaas, yaas, no doubt; but they shouldn't be old maids; besides, it's no good telling the truth,
for nobody ever believes you." He did, however, once refer complimentarily to a maiden lady--a
certain Saint Apollonia who leaped into a fire prepared for her by the heathen Alexandrians.
He called her "This admirable old maid." Her chief virtue in his eyes, however, seems to have
been not her fidelity to her principles, but the fact that she got rid of herself, and so made
one old maid fewer.

"What shall we do with our old maids?" he would ask, and then answer the question himself--"Oh,
enlist them. With a little training they would make first-rate soldiers." He was also prejudiced
against saints, and said of one, "I presume she was so called because of the enormity of her
crimes."

Although Mrs. Burton often reproved her husband for his barbed and irritating remarks, her
own tongue had, incontestibly, a very beautiful edge on it. Witness her reply to Mrs. X., who
declared that when she met Burton she was inexpressibly shocked by his Chaucerian conversation
and Canopic wit.

"I can quite believe," commented Mrs. Burton, sweetly, "that on occasions when no lady was
present Richard's conversation might have been startling."

How tasteful is this anecdote, as they say in The Nights, "and how enjoyable and delectable."

111. Burton begins his Translation, April 1884.

As we have already observed, Mr. Payne's 500 copies of the Thousand Nights and a Night were
promptly snapped up by the public and 1,500 persons had to endure disappointment. "You should
at once," urged Burton, "bring out a new edition." "I have pledged myself," replied Mr. Payne,
"not to reproduce the book in an unexpurgated form."

"Then," said Burton, "Let me publish a new edition in my own name and account to you for the
profits--it seems a pity to lose these 1,500 subscribers." This was a most generous and kind-hearted,
but, from a literary point of view, immoral proposition; and Mr. Payne at once rejected it,
declaring that he could not be a party to a breach of faith with the subscribers in any shape
or form. Mr. Payne's virtue was, pecuniarily and otherwise, its punishment. Still, he has had
the pleasure of a clear conscience. Burton, however, being, as always, short of money, felt
deeply for these 1,500 disappointed subscribers, who were holding out their nine-guinea cheques
in vain; and he then said "Should you object to my making an entirely new translation?" To
which, of course, Mr. Payne replied that he could have no objection whatever. Burton then set
to work in earnest. This was in April, 1884. As we pointed out in Chapter xxii., Lady Burton's
account of the inception and progress of the work and Burton's own story in the Translator's
Foreword (which precedes his first volume) bristle with misstatements and inaccuracies. He
evidently wished it to be thought that his work was well under weigh long before he had heard
of Mr. Payne's undertaking, for he says, "At length in the spring of 1879 the tedious process
of copying began and the book commenced to take finished form." Yet he told Mr. Payne in 1881
that beyond notes and a syllabus of titles nothing had been done; and in 1883 he says in a
letter, "I find my translation is a mere summary," that is to say, of the Boulac edition, which
was the only one familiar to him till he met Mr. Payne. He admits having made ample use of
the three principal versions that preceded his, namely, those of Jonathan Scott, Lane and Payne,
"the whole being blended by a callida junctura into a homogeneous mass." But as a matter of
fact his obligations to Scott and Lane, both of whom left much of the Nights untranslated,
and whose versions of it were extremely clumsy and incorrect, were infinitesimal; whereas,
as we shall presently prove, practically the whole of Burton is founded on the whole of Payne.
We trust, however, that it will continually be borne in mind that the warm friendship which
existed between Burton and Payne was never for a moment interrupted. Each did the other services
in different ways, and each for different reasons respected and honoured the other. In a letter
to Mr. Payne of 12th August, 1884, Burton gave an idea of his plan. He says "I am going in
for notes where they did not suit your scheme and shall make the book a perfect repertoire
of Eastern knowledge in its most esoteric form." A paper on these subjects which Burton offered
to the British Association was, we need scarcely say, courteously declined.

Writing to Payne on September 9th (1884) he says, "As you have been chary of notes my version
must by way of raison d'etre (amongst others) abound in esoteric lore, such as female circumcision
and excision, etc. I answer all my friends that reading it will be a liberal education, and
assure them that with such a repertory of esotericism at their finger ends they will know all
the Scibile [380] requisite to salvation. My conviction is that all the women in England will
read it and half the men will cut me."

112. The Battle over the Nights.

Although, as we have seen, Burton's service to Mr. Payne's translation was almost too slight
to be mentioned, Burton was to Mr. Payne in another way a tower of strength. Professional spite,
jealousy and other causes had ranged against his Nights whole platoons of men of more or less
weight. Jealousy, folly and ignorance made common cause against the new translation--the most
formidable coterie being the group of influential men who for various reasons made it their
business to cry up the commonplace translation of E. W. Lane, published in 1840, and subsequently
reprinted--a translation which bears to Payne's the relation of a glow-worm to the meridian
sun. The clique at first prepared to make a professional attack on the work, but the appearance
of Volume i. proved it to be from a literary, artistic and philological point of view quite
unassailable. This tactic having failed, some of these gentlemen, in their meanness, and we
fear we must add, malevolence, then tried to stir up the authorities to take action against
Mr. Payne on the ground of public morality. [381] Burton had long been spoiling for a fight--and
now was his opportunity. In season and out of season he defended Payne. He fell upon the Lane-ites
like Samson upon the Philistines. He gloried in the hurly-burly. He wallowed, as it were, in
blood. Fortunately, too, at that time he had friends in the Government--straightforward, commonsense
men--who were above all pettinesses. Lord Houghton, F. F. Arbuthnot, and others, also ranged
themselves on the same side and hit out manfully.

Before starting on the Palmer expedition, Burton, in a letter of October 29th, had written
to Mr. Payne: "The more I read your translation the more I like it. You have no need to fear
the Lane clique; that is to say, you can give them as good as they can give you. I am quite
ready to justify the moral point. Of course we must not attack Lane till he is made the cheval
de bataille against us. But peace and quiet are not in my way, and if they want a fight, they
can have it." The battle was hot while it lasted, but it was soon over. The Lane-ites were
cowed and gradually subsided into silence. Mr. Payne took the matter more coolly than Burton,
but he, too, struck out when occasion required. For example, among the enemy was a certain
reverend Professor of Semitic languages, who held advanced opinions on religious matters. He
had fought a good fight, had suffered persecution on that account, and is honoured accordingly.
"It is usual," observed Burton, "with the weak, after being persecuted to become persecutors."
[382] Mr. ----- had the folly to put it about that Payne's translation was made not direct
from the Arabic but from German translations. How he came to make so amazing a statement, seeing
that at the time no important German translation of the Nights existed, [383] it is difficult
to say; but Mr. Payne sent him the following words from the Nights, written in the Arabic character:
"I and thou and the slanderer, there shall be for us an awful day and a place of standing up
to judgment." [384] After this Mr. ----- sheathed his sword and the Villon Society heard no
more of him.

113. Completion of Mr. Payne's Translation.

Mr. Payne's first volume appeared as we have seen in 1882. The last left the press in 1884.
The work was dedicated to Burton, who writes, "I cannot but feel proud that he has honoured
me with the dedication of 'The Book of the Thousand Nights and one Night.' ...He succeeds admirably
in the most difficult passages, and he often hits upon choice and special terms and the exact
vernacular equivalent of the foreign word so happily and so picturesquely that all future translators
must perforce use the same expression under pain of falling far short."

Having finished the Nights, Mr. Payne commenced the translation of other Eastern stories--which
he published under the title of Tales from the Arabic. [385]

Chapter XXV. 1883 to May 1885, The Kama Shastra Society

Bibliography:

69. Publications of the Kama Shastra Society.

                               Author.        Translator.
1. The Kama Sutra. 1883 Vatsyayana. Bhagvanlal Indraji. 2. The Ananga
Ranga. 1885 Kullianmull. " 3. The Arabian Nights. 1885-1886. " Burton.
4. The Scented Garden   ("My old version").   1886.  Nafzawi.
      Burton and others.
5. The Beharistan. 1887. Jami. Rehatsek. 6. The Gulistan 1888. Sadi. "
    or Rose Garden.

        Works still in Manuscript.

                                         Author.  Translator
7. The Nigaristan Jawini. Rehatsek. 8. The Observances of the Zenanah "
9. Etiquette of eating and Drinking "      (A Persian Essay).
 10. Physiognomies (A Persian MS.) Al-R'azy " 11. Anecdotes from the
Nuzhat al Yaman. "      (Persian).
 12. The Merzuban Namah. (Persian). 13. Extracts from Al Mostatraf.
(Arabic). " 14. Extracts from Siraj-ul-moluk. (Arabic). " 15. Extracts
from Tuhfat al akhwan us Safa.* "

* For further particulars respecting these works see Appendix.

114. The Azure Apollo.

If Payne's translation had been met by the wind, Burton anticipated that his own, with its
blunt faithfulness to the original and its erotic notes, would be met by whirlwind. Considering
the temper of the public [386] at the time he thought it not improbable that an action would
be brought against him, and in fancy he perceived himself standing at bay with the Authorised
Version of the Bible in one hand as a shield, and Urquhart's Rabelais in the other as a missile.

But though a man of amazing courage, Burton was not one to jeopardise himself unnecessarily.
He was quite willing to take any reasonable precautions. So he discussed the matter with his
friend F. F. Arbuthnot, who had recently returned from India, married, [387] and settled at
a charming place, Upper House Court, near Guildford. Mr. Arbuthnot, who, as we have seen, had
for years given his whole soul to Eastern literature, had already published a group of Hindu
stories [388] and was projecting manuals of Persian [389] and Arabic [390] literature and a
series of translations of famous Eastern works, some of which were purely erotic. He now suggested
that this series and Burton's Arabian Nights should be published nominally by a society to
which might be given the appropriate name, "The Kama Shastra"--that is the cupid-gospel--Society,
Kama being the Hindu god of love. This deity is generally represented as a beautiful youth
riding on an emerald-plumaged lorry or parrot. In his hand he holds a bow of flowers and five
arrows--the five senses; and dancing girls attend him. His favourite resort is the country
round Agra, where Krishna [391] the azure Hindu Apollo,

   "Tunes harps immortal, and to strains divine
    Dances by moonlight with the Gopia nine." [392]

The books were to be translated by Rehatsek and a Hindu pundit named Bhagvanlal Indraji, Burton
and Arbuthnot were to revise and annotate, and Arbuthnot was to find the money. Burton fell
in with the idea, as did certain other members of Arbuthnot's circle, who had always been keenly
interested in Orientalism, and so was formed the famous Kama Shastra Society. That none of
the particulars relating to the history of the Society has before been made public, is explained
by the fact that Burton and Arbuthnot, conversant with the temper of the public, took pains
to shroud their proceedings in mystery. It cannot, however, be too strongly insisted upon that
Arbuthnot's standpoint, like Burton's, was solely for the student. "He wished," he said, "to
remove the scales from the eyes of Englishmen who are interested in Oriental literature." These
erotic books in one form or another are in the hands of 200,000,000 of Orientals. Surely, argued
Arbuthnot, a few genuine English students--a few, grave, bald-headed, spectacled, happily married
old gentlemen--may read them without injury. [393] The modern student seeks his treasure everywhere,
and cares not into what midden he may probe so long as he finds it. No writer on 18th century
French History, for example, would nowadays make half apologies, as Carlyle did, for having
read Casanova. Indeed, he would lay himself open to censure unless he admitted having studied
it carefully. Still, every genuine and right-minded student regards it as a duty to keep books
such as these, which are unsuited for the general public, under lock and key--just as the medical
man treats his books of plates and other reference volumes. Then again it is entirely a mistake
to suppose that the works issued or contemplated by the Kama Shastra Society were all of them
erotic. Two out of the six actually done: The Beharistan and The Gulistan, and the whole of
the nine still in manuscript, might, after a snip or two with the scissors, be read aloud in
almost any company.

We have the first hint of the Kama Shastra Society in a letter to Payne, 5th August 1882. "I
hope," says Burton, "you will not forget my friend, F. F. Arbuthnot, and benefit him by your
advice about publishing when he applies to you for it. He has undertaken a peculiar branch
of literature--the Hindu Erotic, which promises well." On Dec. 23th he writes: "My friend Arbuthnot
writes to me that he purposes calling upon you. He has founded a society consisting of himself
and myself." After further reference to the idea he adds, "I hope that you will enjoy it."
A few days later Mr. Arbuthnot called on Mr. Payne. Mr. Payne did not "enjoy" the unfolding
of the Kama Shastra scheme, he took no interest in it whatever; but, of course, he gave the
information required as to cost of production; and both then and subsequently assisted in other
matters of business. Moreover, to Mr. Arbuthnot himself, as a man of great personal charm,
Mr. Payne became sincerely attached, and a friendship resulted that was severed only by death.

The arrangement about financing the books did not, of course, apply to The Arabian Nights.
That was Burton's own affair; for its success was supposed to be assured from the first. Of
the books other than The Arabian Nights published by the Kama Shastra Society--each of which
purported, facetiously, to be printed at Behares, the name which Burton chose to give to Stoke
Newington, we shall now give a brief account.

Several, we said, are erotic. But it should be clearly understood what is here meant by the
term. The plays of Wycherley and other Caroline dramatists are erotic in a bad sense. We admit
their literary qualities, but we cannot hide from ourselves the fact that they were written
by libertines and that an attempt is made to render vice attractive. The injured husband, for
example, is invariably ridiculed, the adulterer glorified. The Hindu books, on the other hand,
were written by professedly religious men whose aim was "not to encourage chambering and wantonness,
but simply and in all sincerity to prevent the separation of husband and wife"--not to make
them a married couple look afield, but "to lead them to love each other more by understanding
each other better." Vatsyayan and Kullianmull, [394] indeed, though they poetized the pleasures
of the flesh, would have been horrified could they have read the plays of Wycherley and Etheridge.
The erotic books that Arbuthnot wished to be translated were the following--all by Hindu poets
more or less famous:--

   The Kama Sutra (Book of Love) by Vatsyayana.
   Ananga Ranga (Stage of Love) by Kullianmull.
   Ratirahasya (Secrets of Love) by Kukkoka.
   Panchasakya (The Five Arrows) by Jyotirisha.
   Smara Pradipa (Light of Love) by Gunakara.
   Ratimanjari (Garland of Love) by Jayadeva.
   Rasmanjari (Sprout of Love) by Bhanudatta.

Of these seven books two only were issued, namely the Kama Sutra and the Ananga Ranga or Lila
Shastra. The precise share that Burton [395] had in them will never be known. It is sufficient
to say that he had a share in both, and the second, according to the title page, was "translated
from the Sanskrit and annotated by A. F. F. and B. F. R.," that is F. F. Arbuthnot and Richard
Francis Bacon--the initials being purposely reversed.

115. The Kama Sutra.

When commencing upon The Kama Sutra, Indraji--for he was the actual translator--found his copy,
which had been procured in Bombay, to be defective, so he wrote to Benares, Calcutta and Jeypoor
for copies of the manuscripts preserved in the Sanskrit libraries of those places. These having
been obtained and compared with each other, a revised copy of the entire work was compiled
and from this Indraji made his translation. "This work," he says, "is not to be used merely
as an instrument for satisfying our desires. A person acquainted with the true principles of
this science, who preserved his Dharma (virtue or religious merit), his Artha (worldly wealth)
and his Kama (pleasure, or sensual gratification), and who has regard to the customs of the
people, is sure to obtain the mastery over his senses. In short, an intelligent and knowing
person, attending to Dharma, and Artha and also to Kama, without becoming the slave of his
passions, will obtain success in everything that he may do." According to Vatsyayana, Kama
should be taught just as is taught--say, hygiene or political economy. "A man practising Dharma,
Artha and Kama enjoys happiness both in this world and in the world to come." It must not be
supposed that the work is entirely erotic. There are also directions for one's conduct at religious
festivals, especially that in honour of Saraswati, [396] picnics, drinking parties and other
social gatherings. Still, the erotic preponderates. The work is mainly a handbook on Love.
One is informed respecting what women are or are not worthy of affection. There are full instructions
respecting kissing, an art which is not so easy to learn as some persons think. Still, a man
who could not kiss properly after reading the Kama Sutra would be a dullard indeed. Some of
the remarks are quaint enough. Thus we are told that "nothing tends to increase love so much
as the effects of marking with the nails [397] and biting." Some girls when asked in marriage
are slow to make up their minds. With that situation there are, it seems, several ways of dealing.
The simplest is the following: "When the girl goes to a garden, or to some village in the neigbourhood,
the man should, with his friends, fall on her guards, and having killed them, or frightened
them away, forcibly carry her off." Sometime it is the man who is shy. In such cases the girl
"should bring him to her house under the pretence of seeing the fights of quails, cocks and
rams, of hearing the maina (a kind of starling) talk.... she should also amuse him for a long
time by telling him such stories and doing such things as he may take most delight in."

For Edwin and Angelina when they get married there is also much wholesome instruction. "The
wife, whether she be a woman of noble family or a virgin widow re-married, [398] should lead
a chaste life." "When the man sets out on a journey she should make him swear that he will
return quickly. [399]... When the man does return home she should worship the God Kama." Ladies
will be interested to learn that there are twenty-seven artifices by which a woman can get
money out of a man. One is "Praising his intelligence to his face." Then there are useful directions
for the personal adornment of both sexes. "If the bone of a peacock or of a hyena be covered
with gold and tied to the right hand, it makes a man lovely in the eyes of other people."

Of the essential portions of the book it is sufficient to say that they are similar to those
of the other avowedly erotic Eastern works, the contents of the principal of which have been
touched upon by Burton in the Terminal Essay to his Arabian Nights and in some of his notes.
Finally we are told that the Kama Sutra was composed for the benefit of the world by Vatsyayana,
while leading the life of a religious student, and wholly engaged in the contemplation of the
Deity. At the same time, the teaching of this holy man amounts to very much the same as that
of Maupassant, which is, to use Tolstoy's words, "that life consists in pleasures of which
woman with her love is the chief, and in the double, again reflected delight of depicting this
love and exciting it in others." [400]

The work lets a flood of light on Hindu manners and customs; and it must be borne in mind that
the translation was issued privately at a high price and intended only for "curious students."
In the Preface, Burton and Arbuthnot observe that after a perusal of the Hindoo work the reader
will understand the subject upon which it treats, "At all events from a materialistic, realistic
and practical point of view. If all science is founded more or less on a stratum of facts,
there can be no harm in making known to mankind generally certain matters intimately connected
with their private, domestic and social life. Alas! complete ignorance of them has unfortunately
wrecked many a man and many a woman, while a little knowledge of a subject generally ignored
by the masses would have enabled numbers of people to understand many things which they believed
to be quite incomprehensible, or which were not thought worthy of their consideration."

Writing to Payne, 15th January, 1883, Burton says, "Has Arbuthnot sent you his Vatsyayana?
[401] He and I and the Printer have started a Hindu Kama Shastra (Ars Amoris Society). It will
make the Brit(ish) Pub(lis) stare. Please encourage him." Later Arbuthnot, in reply to a question
put to him by a friend, said that the Society consisted practically of himself, Sir Richard
Burton and the late Lord Houghton. [402]

Chapter XXVI. The Ananga Ranga or Lila Shastra

Bibliography:

70. The Book of the Sword. 1884.

116. The Ananga Ranga. [403]

The title page of the second book, the Ananga Ranga, which was issued in 1885, was as follows:

              ANANGA RANGA
        (Stage of the Bodiless One)
                   or
         THE HINDU ART OF LOVE
          (Ars Amoris Indica)
     Translated from the Sanskrit
              and annotated
                   by
         A. F. F. and B. F. R.

Cosmopoli MDCCCLXXXV, for the Kama Shastra Society of London and Benares, and for private circulation
only.

Dedicated to that small portion of the British Public which takes enlightened interest in studying
the manners and customs of the olden East.

We are told that this book was written about 1450 by the arch-poet Kalyana Mull, [404] that
lithographed copies have been printed by hundreds of thousands, that the book is in the hands
of almost every one "throughout the nearer East," and also that it is "an ethnological treasure,
which tells us as much of Hindu human nature as The Thousand Nights and a Night of Arab manners
and customs in the cinquecento." In India the book is known as the Kama Shastra or Lila Shastra,
the Scripture of Play or Amorous Sport. The author says quaintly, "It is true that no joy in
the world of mortals can compare with that derived from the knowledge of the Creator. Second,
however, and subordinate only to his are the satisfaction and pleasure arising from the possession
of a beautiful woman."

"From the days of Sotades and Ovid," says the writer of the Preface, who is certainly Burton,
"to our own time, Western authors have treated the subject either jocularly or with a tendency
to hymn the joys of immorality, and the gospel of debauchery. The Indian author has taken the
opposite view, and it is impossible not to admire the delicacy with which he has handled an
exceedingly difficult theme. ....Feeling convinced that monogamy is a happier state than polygamy,
he would save the married couple from the monotony and satiety which follow possession, by
varying their pleasures in every conceivable way and by supplying them with the means of being
psychically pure and physically pleasant to each other."

There is a reference to this work in Burton's Vikram and the Vampire, where we read: [405]
"As regards the neutral state, that poet was not happy in his ideas who sang,

   'Whene'er indifference appears, or scorn,
     Then, man, despair! then, hapless lover, mourn!'

for a man versed in the Lila Shastra can soon turn a woman's indifference into hate, which
I have shown is as easily permuted to love."

This curious book concludes: "May this treatise, Ananga Ranga, be beloved of man and woman,
as long as the Holy River Ganges, springeth from Shiva with his wife Gauri on his left side;
as long as Lakshmi loveth Vishnu; as long as Brahma is engaged in the study of the Vedas, and
as long as the earth, the moon and the sun endure."

The Kama Shastra Society also issued a translation of the first twenty chapters of The Scented
Garden. [406] In reality it was a translation of the French version of Liseux, but it was imperfect
and had only a few notes. It has been repeatedly denied that Burton had anything to do with
it. All we can say is that in a letter to Mr. A. G. Ellis of 8th May 1887, he distinctly calls
it "my old version," [407] and he must mean that well-known edition of 1886, because all the
other impressions are like it, except in respect to the title page.

117. The Beharistan, 1887.

The Society now determined to issue unexpurgated editions of the three following great Persian
classics:

The Gulistan or Rose Garden, by Sadi (A.D. 1258). The Nigaristan or Picture Gallery, by Jawini
(A.D. 1334). The Beharistan or Abode of Spring, by Jami (A.D. 1487).

The first to appear was The Beharistan in 1887. Jami, the author, is best known in England
on account of his melodious poems Salaman and Absal, so exquisitely rendered by Edward FitzGerald,
and Ysuf and Zuleika (Joseph and Potiphar's Wife), familiar to Englishmen mainly through Miss
Costello's fragrant adaptation. [408] To quote from the Introduction of the translation of
The Beharistan, which is written in Arbuthnot's bald and hesitating style, "there is in this
work very little indeed to be objected to. A few remarks or stories scattered here and there
would have to be omitted in an edition printed for public use or for public sale. But on the
whole the author breathes the noblest and purest sentiments, and illustrates his meanings by
the most pleasing, respectable, and apposite tales, along with numerous extracts from the Koran."
The work consists of stories and verses--two or three of which will be found in our Appendix--pleasantly
intermingled; but as Rehatsek, the translator, made no attempt to give the verses rhythmical
form, only an inadequate idea is conveyed of the beauty of the original. It would require an
Edward FitzGerald or a John Payne to do justice to Jami's jewelled verses.

118. The Gulistan, 1888.

The Gulistan of Sadi, [409] which was the next book issued, is best known in England from the
translations by James Ross (1823) and Edward B. Eastwick (1852). Sadi's aim was to make "a
garden of roses whose leaves the rude hand of the blast of Autumn could not affect." [410]
"The very brambles and rubbish of this book," says an ancient enthusiastic admirer, "are of
the nature of ambergris." Men treasured the scraps of Sadi's writing "as if they were gold
leaf," and The Gulistan has attained a popularity in the East "which has never been reached
in this Western world." The school-boy lisps his first lessons in it, the pundit quotes it,
and hosts of its sayings have become proverbial. From end to end the "unity, the unapproachable
majesty, the omnipotence, the long-suffering and the goodness of God" are nobly set forth--the
burden of every chapter being:

   "The world, my brother! will abide with none,
    By the world's Maker let thy heart be won."

119. The Nigaristan.

The third of the great trio, Jawini's Nigaristan, did not reach the press owing to Arbuthnot's
death. The manuscript, however, in Rehatsek's hand-writing, is still in the possession of the
Royal Asiatic Society, 22, Albermarle Street, and we trust to see it some day suitably edited
and published. Arbuthnot, who contributes the preface, points out that it contains 534 stories
in prose and verse, and that it abounds "in pure and noble sentiments, such as are to be found
scattered throughout the Sacred Books of the East, the Old and New Testaments and the Koran."
A few citations from it will be found in our Appendix.

120. Letters to Payne, 19th January 1884.

On January 19th, Burton, after asking for the remaining volumes of Mr. Payne's Nights, says
"A friend here is reading them solemnly and with huge delight: he would be much disappointed
to break off perforce half way. When do you think the 9 vols. will be finished? Marvellous
weather here. I am suffering from only one thing, a want to be in Upper Egypt. And, of course,
they won't employ me. I have the reputation of 'independent,' a manner of 'Oh! no, we never
mention it, sir,' in the official catalogue, and the one unpardonable Chinese Gordon has been
sacked for being 'eccentric,' which Society abominates. England is now ruled by irresponsible
clerks, mostly snobs. My misfortunes in life began with not being a Frenchman. I hope to be
in London next Spring, and to have a talk with you about my translation of the 1001."

All the early months of 1884, Burton was seriously ill, but in April he began to mend. He writes
to Payne on the 17th: "I am just beginning to write a little and to hobble about (with a stick).
A hard time since January 30th! Let me congratulate you on being at Vol. ix. Your translation
is excellent and I am glad to see in Academy that you are working at Persian tales. [411] Which
are they? In my youth I read many of them. Now that your 1001 are so nearly finished I am working
at my translation." He then asks what arrangements Mr. Payne made with the publishers and the
cost of the printing. "All I want," he says, on April 27th, "is a guide in dealing with that
dragon the publisher;" and in later letters he thanks Mr. Payne for answering his questions.
On June 20th (1884) writing from Marienbad he says, "I should much like to know what you are
doing with the three supplemental volumes, and I hope that each will refer readers to the source
whence you borrow it. This will be a great aid to the students. The more I examine your translation
the better I like it. Mine will never be so popular because I stick so much to the text. [412]
No arrangements yet make about it, and MS. will not be all ready till end of January. We (my
wife and I) have enjoyed our ten days at Marienbad muchly, but the weather has as yet prevented
bathing; a raw wester with wind and rain. Bad for poor people who can afford only the 21 days
de rigueur. Cuthbert Bede (Rev. Edward Bradley) is here and my friend J. J. Aubertin is coming."

121. At Sauerbrunn, 12th August 1884.

The next letter to Payne, written from Sauerbrunn, in Austria, is dated 12th August 1884. After
enquiring concerning "the supererogatory three vols." he says, "We left Marienbad last of last
month, and came to this place (a very pretty little spa utterly clear of Britishers), where
we shall stay till the end of the month and then again for Trieste to make plans for the winter.
Will you kindly let me have the remaining volumes, and when you have a spare quarter of an
hour I want a little assistance from you. When you sent me your Breslau you pencilled in each
volume the places from which you had taken matter for translation (How wretchedly that Breslau
is edited!) I want these notes scribbled out by way of saving time. Of course I shall have
to read over the whole series; but meanwhile will content myself with your references. Have
you the Arabian Nights published in Turkish by Mr. Clermont Ganneau? You will want it for the
supererogatory. If you can't get it I have it somewhere, and will look for it on return to
Trieste. Have you a copy of Trebutien? Cotton, of Academy has just sent me Clouston's Book
of Sindibad [413] for review. I thought it was our old friend the sailor, but find out my mistake.
You will have no objection to my naming (in my review) your style in the 1001 as that he should
have taken for a model."

He writes again on September 9th (1884): "On return here I found Vol. ix., with the dedication
which delighted me hugely. I did not notice your fine work in reviewing the Clouston treatise.
I had not your express permission. Living so far from the world I am obliged to be very careful
in these matters: one never knows what harm one may be doing unawares. Of course I shall speak
of your translation in my preface, as it deserves to be spoken of. Nothing would give me greater
pleasure than to look over your proofs; in fact, I should be sorry not to do so. I have not
yet found Ganneau's Nights, but I hope to do so. My Turkish Edition was burnt many years ago
in a fire at Grindlay's; but you will easily find a copy. I suppose you read Turkish; [414]
and if you do not you will in three months; the literary style is a mass of Persian and Arabic.
You must find out which is the best Turkish Edition. My copy had evidently been translated
from a MS. very unlike the Calcutta and Bulak.... I have told Quartich to send you a cop of
Camoens (Lyrics), which will be out in a few days."

122. Burton's Circulars, September 1884.

By September 1884 the first volumes of Burton's Arabian Nights were almost ready for print,
and Burton asked himself how many copies would suffice the public. He was aware that 1,500
persons were disappointed of being able to obtain copies of Mr. Payne's Edition, but it did
not necessarily follow that all these 1,500 would subscribe to his. Finally he decided upon
1,000, and he had three circulars printed respecting the work.

The first began "Captain Burton, having neither agent nor publisher for his forthcoming Arabian
Nights, requests that all subscribers will kindly send their names to him personally (Captain
Burton, Trieste, Austria), when they will be entered in a book kept for the purpose." It was
then mentioned that there would be ten volumes at a guinea apiece, [415] each to be paid for
on delivery, that 1,000 copies would be printed, and that no cheaper edition would be issued.
The second dealt with the advantages of the work to students of Arabic. The third consisted
of an article welcoming the work from The Daily Tribune, New York, written by G. W. S(malley).
Burton posted about 20,000 of these circulars at an expense of some £80, but received only
300 favourable replies. Lady Burton, in dismay, then wrote to Mr. Payne begging for advice.
Several letters passed between them, and Mr. Payne sent her the names of the subscribers to
his own book and lists of other likely persons. A second shower of circulars effected the desired
purpose. Indeed it did far more, for the number of favourable replies ultimately rose to 2,000.
But as we have seen, Burton had restricted himself to the issue of 1,000. So he found that
he had made precisely the same mistake as Mr. Payne. However, it could not be remedied.

123. The Book of the Sword.

This year was published Burton's The Book of the Sword, which he dedicated, appropriately,
to the memory of his old friend Alfred Bates Richards, who had died in 1876. It is a history
of the sword in all times and countries down to the Middle Ages, [416] with numerous illustrations,
the interest being mainly archaeological. Of "The Queen of Weapons" he ever spoke glowingly.
"The best of calisthenics," he says, "this energetic educator teaches the man to carry himself
like a soldier. A compendium of gymnastics, it increases strength and activity, dexterity,
and rapidity of movement. The foil is still the best training tool for the consensus of eye
and hand, for the judgment of distance and opportunity, and, in fact, for the practice of combat.
And thus swordsmanship engenders moral confidence and self-reliance, while it stimulates a
habit of resource."

124. The Lyrics of Camoens, 1884.

This same year, too, he published his translation of the Lyrics of Camoens, in which, as will
have been judged from the letters already quoted, he had been assisted by Mr. John Payne, who
was also a Portuguese scholar and a lover of Camoens. "The learning and research of your work,"
wrote Mr. A. C. Swinburne, in reference to Burton's six Camoens volumes, "are in many points
beyond all praise of mine, but not more notable than the strength and skill that wield them.
I am hungrily anticipating the Arabian Nights."

125. More Letters to Payne, 1st October 1884.

On October 1st 1884, Burton wrote to thank Mr. Payne for a splendid and complete set (specially
bound) of his edition of the Nights. He says, "I am delighted with it, especially with the
dedication. [417]... To my horror Quaritch sent me a loose vol. of his last catalogue with
a notice beginning, 'The only absolutely true translation of the [Arabian Nights], &c.' My
wife telegraphed to him and followed with a letter ordering it not to be printed. All in vain.
I notice this only to let you know that the impertinence is wholly against my will. Life in
Trieste is not propitious to work as in the Baths; yet I get on tolerably. Egypt is becoming
a comedy." Then follows the amazing remark: "I expect to see Gordon (who is doubtless hand
in hand with the Mahdi) sent down to offer to guide Wolseley up to Khartum."

126. Death of Gordon, January 1885.

Burton little dreamt that the days of the heroic Englishman were numbered. Sent by the English
Government to the Soudan, Gordon had been at Khartum hardly a month before it was invested
by the Mahdi. The relief expedition arrived just two days too late. Gordon was slain! This
was in January 1885. The shock to Burton was comparable only to that which he received by the
death of Speke. In one of the illustrated papers there was a picture of Gordon lying in the
desert with vultures hovering around. "Take it away!" said Burton. "I can't bear to look at
it. I have had to feel like that myself."

127. W. F. Kirby, [418] 25th March 1885.

Shortly after the announcement of his edition of the Nights, Burton received a letter from
Mr. W. F. Kirby, [418] better known as an entomologist, who had devoted much study to European
editions of that work, a subject of which Burton knew but little. Mr. Kirby offered to supply
a bibliographical essay which could be used as an appendix. Burton replied cordially, and this
was the beginning of a very pleasant friendship. Mr. Kirby frequently corresponded with Burton,
and they often met at Mr. Kirby's house, the Natural History Museum, South Kensington, or the
British Museum. Says Mr. Kirby: "At the British Museum, Burton seemed more inclined to talk
than to work. I thought him weak in German [419] and when I once asked him to help me with
a Russian book, he was unable to do so." Thus even a Burton has his limitations. "He told me,"
continues Mr. Kirby, "that he once sat between Sir Henry Rawlinson and a man who had been Ambassador
at St. Petersburg, and he spoke to one in Persian, and the other in Russian, but neither of
them could understand him. I have never, however, been able to make up my mind whether the
point of the story told against him or against them. [420] Although Burton was a student of
occult science, I could never lead him to talk about crystals or kindred subjects; and this
gave me the idea that he was perhaps pledged to secrecy. Still, he related his experiences
freely in print." Oddly, enough, Burton used to call Mr. Kirby "Mr. Rigby," and he never could
break himself of the habit. "Apparently," says Mr. Kirby, "he associated my name with that
of his old opponent, Colonel, afterwards Major-General Rigby, [421] Consul at Zanzibar." In
a letter of 25th March 1885, Burton asks Mr. Kirby to draw up "a full account of the known
MSS. and most important European editions, both those which are copies of Galland and (especially)
those which are not. It will be printed in my terminal essay with due acknowledgment of authorship."
[422] On April 8th (1885) he says, "I don't think my readers will want an exhaustive bibliography,
but they will expect me to supply information which Mr. Payne did not deem necessary to do
in his excellent Terminal Essay. By the by, I shall totally disagree with him about Harun al
Rashid and the Barmecides, [423] who were pestilent heretics and gave rise to the terrible
religious trouble of the subsequent reigns. A tabular arrangement of the principal tales will
be exceedingly useful."

Chapter XXVII. May 1885-5th Feb. 1886, A Glance through "The Arabian Nights"

Bibliography:

71. The Thousand Nights and a Night. 1st Vol. 12th September 1885. 10th Vol. 12th July 1886.
72. Il Pentamerone. (Translated--not published till 1893). 73. Iracema or Honey Lips; and Manoel
de Moraes the Convert. Translated from the Brazilian. 1886.

128. Slaving at the Athenaeum, May 1885.

In May 1885, Burton obtained leave of absence, and on arriving in England he made various arrangements
about the printing of The Arabian Nights and continued the work of translation. When in London
he occupied rooms at the St. James's Hotel (now the Berkeley) in Piccadilly. He used to say
that the St. James's Hotel was the best place in the world in which to do literary work, and
that the finest place in the whole world was the corner of Piccadilly. Still, he spent most
of his time, as usual, at the Athenaeum. Mr. H. R. Tedder, the Secretary, and an intimate friend
of Burton's, tells me that "He would work at the round table in the library for hours and hours--with
nothing for refreshment except a cup of coffee and a box of snuff, which always stood at his
side;" and that he was rarely without a heavy stick with a whistle at one end and a spike at
the other--the spike being to keep away dogs when he was travelling in hot countries. This
was one of the many little inventions of his own. Mr. Tedder describes him as a man of great
and subtle intellect and very urbane. "He had an athletic appearance and a military carriage,
and yet more the look of a literary man than of a soldier." In summer as usual he wore white
clothes, the shabby old beaver, and the tie-pin shaped like a sword. Mr. Tedder summed him
up as "as a compound of a Benedictine monk, a Crusader and a Buccaneer."

The Hon. Henry J. Coke, looking in at the Athenaeum library one day, and noticing the "white
trousers, white linen coat and a very shabby old white beaver hat," exclaimed, "Hullo Burton,
do you find it so very hot?"

"I don't want," said Burton, "to be mistaken for anyone else."

"There's not much fear of that, without your clothes," followed Coke. [424]

During this holiday Burton visited most of his old friends, and often ran down to Norwood to
see his sister and her daughter, while everyone remarked his brightness and buoyancy. "It was
delightful," says Miss Stisted, "to see how happy he was over the success of his venture."
He had already resolved to issue six additional volumes, to be called Supplemental Nights.
He would then take sixteen thousand pounds. He calculated printing and sundries as costing
four thousand, and that the remainder would be net profit. As a matter of fact the expenses
arose to £6,000, making the net profit £10,000 [425] Burton had wooed fortune in many ways,
by hard study in India, by pioneering in Africa, by diplomacy at Court, by gold-searching in
Midian and at Axim, by patent medicining. Finally he had found it in his inkstand; but as his
favourite Jami says, it requires only a twist of the pen to transmute duvat into dulat [426]--inkstand
into fortune.

Except when his father died, Burton had never before possessed so large a sum, and, at the
time, it appeared inexhaustible. Bubbling over with fun, he would pretend to make a great mystery
as to the Kama Shastra Society at Benares, where he declared the Nights were being printed.

129. A Visit to Mr. Arbuthnot's.

Of all the visits to be made during this holiday Burton had looked forward to none with so
much pleasure as those to Mr. Arbuthnot, or "Bunny," [427] as he called him, and Mr. Payne.
Mr. Arbuthnot was still living at Upper House Court, Guildford, studying, writing books, and
encouraging struggling men of letters with a generosity that earned for him the name of "the
English Mecaenas;" and it was there the friends discussed the publications of the Kama Shastra
Society and made arrangements for the issue of fresh volumes. While the roses shook their odours
over the garden, they talked of Sadi's roses, Jami's "Aromatic herbs," and "Trees of Liberality,"
[428] and the volume Persian Portraits, [429] which Arbuthnot, assisted by Edward Rehatsek,
was at the moment preparing for the press. Among the objects at Mr. Arbuthnot's heart was,
as we have said, the resuscitation of the old Oriental Translation fund, which was originally
started in 1824, the Society handling it having been established by Royal Charter. A series
of works had been issued between 1829 and 1879, but the funds were completely exhausted by
the publication of Al Biruni's Memoirs of India, and there were no longer any subscribers to
the Society. Mr. Arbuthnot now set himself assiduously to revive this fund, he contributed
to it handsomely himself and by his energy induced a number of others to contribute. It is
still in existence, and in accordance with his suggestion is worked by the Royal Asiatic Society,
though the subscriptions and donations to the Translation Fund are kept entirely separate,
and are devoted exclusively to the production of translations of Oriental works, both ancient
and modern. Thanks to the fund, a number of translations of various Oriental works has been
issued, including volumes by Professor Cowell, Rehatsek, Miss C. M. Ridding, Dr. Gaster and
Professor Rhys Davids. Its most important publication, however, is the completion of the translation
of Hariri's Assemblies, [430] done by Steingass. [431]

130. Dr. Steingass.

Born in 1825, Dr. Steingass came to England in 1873, and after five years as Professor of Modern
Languages at Wakefield Grammar School, Birmingham, was appointed Professor at the Oriental
Institute, Woking. Though entirely self-taught, he was master of fourteen languages. [432]
His Arabic Dictionary (1884) and his Persian English Dictionary (1892) are well known, the
latter being the best extant, but he will, after all, be chiefly remembered by his masterly
rendering of Hariri. Dr. Steingass presently became acquainted with Burton, for whom he wrote
the article "On the Prose Rhyme and the Poetry of the Nights." [433] He also assisted Burton
with the Notes, [434] supervised the MSS. of the Supplemental Volumes and enriched the last
three with results of his wide reading and lexicographical experience. [435] The work of transcribing
Burton's manuscript and making the copy for the press fell to a widow lady, Mrs. Victoria Maylor,
a Catholic friend of Mrs. Burton. Mrs. Maylor copied not only The Arabian Nights, but several
of Burton's later works, including The Scented Garden.

131. Anecdotes.

When asked why he spent so much time and money on Orientalism, Arbuthnot gave as excuse his
incompetency to do anything else. He admitted, indeed, that for the higher walks of life, such
as whist and nap, he had no aptitude. Occasionally at Upper House Court, politics were introduced,
and Arbuthnot, a staunch Liberal in a shire of Tories, was sometimes rallied upon his opinions
by the Conservative Burton and Payne. He took it all, however, as he took everything else,
good humouredly, and even made some amiable attempts to convert his opponents. "His Radicalism,"
says Mr. Payne, amusingly, "was entirely a matter of social position and connection. He was
good enough for a Tory." As usual, Burton paid a visit to Fryston, and he occasionally scintillated
at Lord Houghton's famous Breakfasts in London. Once the friends were the guests of a prosperous
publisher, who gave them champagne in silver goblets. "Doesn't this," said Lord Houghton, raising
a bumper to his lips, "make you feel as if you were drinking out of the skulls of poor devil
authors?" For reply Burton tapped his own forehead.

About this time an anonymous letter of Burton's appeared in The World, but we forget upon what
subject. It excited wide interest, however, and hundreds of persons wrote to Mr. Yates, the
editor, for the name of the author.

"Did you see my letter in The World?" enquired Burton of Mrs. E. J. Burton.

"The Christian World?" asked Mrs. Burton innocently.

"No," replied Burton, sharply, "The Unchristian World."

Once when Burton was present at some gathering, a missionary caused a shudder to run through
the company by saying that he had had the dreadful experience of being present at a cannibal
feast. The cannibals, he said, brought in their prisoner, butchered him, cut him up, and handed
the pieces round smoking hot. With his curious feline laugh, Burton enquired, "Didn't they
offer you any?" "They did," replied the missionary, "but of course I refused." "What a fool
you were," cried Burton, "to miss such a unique opportunity."

132. The Pentameron. Burton and Gladstone.

We must next record a visit to Mr. Payne, who then resided in London. Burton talked over his
projects, and said that he had been wondering what book to take up after the completion of
The Nights. "I think," said he, "I shall fix upon Boccaccio next."

"My dear boy," followed Mr. Payne, "I've just done him." [436] As his poem "Salvestra" shows,
Mr. Payne's mind had for long been running on "that sheaf of flowers men call Decameron." His
brilliant translation was, indeed, already in the press, and it appeared the following year
in three volumes.

"You are taking the bread out of my mouth," commented Burton plaintively.

"But," continued Mr. Payne, "there is another work that I thought of doing--The Pentameron,
[437] by Giambattista Basile, and if you care to take my place I will not only stand aside
but lend you the materials collected for the purpose." Burton, who had some knowledge of the
Neapolitan dialect but had never met with the work referred to, welcomed the idea; and as soon
as he had finished the Nights he commenced a translation of The Pentameron, which, however,
was not published until after his death. His rendering, which cannot be praised, was aptly
described by one of the critics as "an uncouth performance." Burton also told Payne about the
proposed Ariosto translation, and they discussed that too, but nothing was done.

On July 19th 1885, the Burtons lunched with Lord Houghton--"our common Houghton," as Mr. Swinburne
used to call him; and found his lordship unwell, peevish, and fault-finding. He had all the
trials of the successful man who possesses everything that wealth can purchase or the mind
conceive.

"Good-bye, my dear old friend," cried Burton, when parting, "Would that I could share your
troubles with you!" [438]

But poor Lord Houghton was too far gone to appreciate the jest. Indeed, he was on the brink
of the grave. A few days later he left for Vichy, where he died on August 11th. His remains
were brought to Fryston, and Burton and Arbuthnot were present at his funeral.

In October, while he was the guest of Lord Salisbury at Hatfield, Burton solicited the consulate
of Morocco, and as his application was supported by fifty men of prominence he felt almost
certain of obtaining it.

Apparently, it was during this visit to England, too, that Burton committed the frightful sin
of contradicting Mr. Gladstone. At some great house after dinner, Mr. Gladstone, who was the
guest of the evening, took it upon himself, while every one listened in respectful silence,
to enlarge on Oriental matters.

After he had finished, Burton, who had been fidgeting considerably, turned to him and said,
"I can assure you, Mr. Gladstone, that everything you have said is absolutely and entirely
opposite to fact."

The rest of the company were aghast, could scarcely, indeed, believe their ears; and one of
them, as soon as he had recovered from the shock, was seen scribbling like mad on a menu card.
Presently Burton felt the card tucked into his hand under the table. On glancing at it he read
"Please do not contradict Mr. Gladstone. Nobody ever does."

133. A Brief Glance through the Nights.

By this time Burton had finished the first volume of his translation of The Arabian Nights,
which left the press 12th September 1885. The book was handsomely bound in black and gold,
the colours of the Abbaside caliphs; and contained a circular "earnestly requesting that the
work might not be exposed for sale in public places or permitted to fall into the hands of
any save curious students of Moslem manners." The last volume was issued in July 1886. Let
us turn over the pages of this remarkable work, surrender ourselves for a few moments to its
charms, and then endeavour to compare it calmly and impartially with the great translation
by Mr. Payne.

What a glorious panorama unfolds itself before us! Who does not know the introduction--about
the king who, because his wife was unfaithful, vowed to take a new wife every evening and slay
her in the morning! And all about the vizier's daughter, the beautiful Shahrazad, who, with
a magnificent scheme in her head, voluntarily came forward and offered to take the frightful risk.

Did ever tale-teller compare with Shahrazad? Who does not sympathise with the Trader who killed
the invisible son of the jinni? Who has not dreamt of the poor fisherman and the pot that was
covered with the seal of King Solomon? The story of Duban, who cured King Yunon of leprosy
and was sent home on the royal steed reads like a verse out of Esther, [439] and may remind
us that there is no better way of understanding the historical portions of the Bible than by
studying The Arabian Nights. King Yunan richly deserved the death that overtook him, if only
for his dirty habit of wetting his thumb when turning over the leaves of the book. [440] What
a rare tale is that of the Ensorcelled Prince, alias The Young King of the Black Isles, who
though he sat in a palace where fountains limbecked water "clear as pearls and diaphanous gems,"
and wore "silken stuff purfled with Egyptian gold," was from his midriff downwards not man
but marble! Who is not shocked at the behaviour of the Three Ladies of Baghdad! In what fearful
peril the caliph and the Kalendars placed themselves when, in spite of warning, they would
ask questions! How delightful are the verses of the Nights, whether they have or have not any
bearing upon the text! Says the third Kalendar, apropos of nothing:

   "How many a weal trips on the heels of ill
    Causing the mourner's heart with joy to thrill."

What an imbecile of imbeciles was this same Kalendar when he found himself in the palace with
the forty damsels, "All bright as moons to wait upon him!" It is true, he at first appreciated
his snug quarters, for he cried, "Hereupon such gladness possessed me that I forgot the sorrows
of the world one and all, and said, 'This is indeed life!'" Then the ninny must needs go and
open that fatal fortieth door! The story of Nur al-Din Ali and his son Badr al-Din Hasan has
the distinction of being the most rollicking and the most humorous in the Nights. What stupendous
events result from a tiff! The lines repeated by Nur al-Din Ali when he angrily quitted his
brother must have appealed forcibly to Burton:

  Travel! and thou shalt find new friends for old ones left behind;
     toil! for the sweets of human life by toil and moil are found;
  The stay at home no honour wins nor ought attains but want; so
     leave thy place of birth and wander all the world around. [441]

As long as time lasts the pretty coquettish bride will keep on changing her charming dresses;
and the sultan's groom (poor man! and for nothing at all) will be kept standing on his head.
The moribund Nur al-Din turns Polonius and delivers himself of sententious precepts. "Security,"
he tells his son, "lieth in seclusion of thought and a certain retirement from the society
of thy fellows.... In this world there is none thou mayst count upon... so live for thyself,
nursing hope of none. Let thine own faults distract thine attention from the faults of other
men. [442] Be cautious, kind, charitable, sober, and economical." Then the good old man's life
"went forth." This son, when, soon after, confronted with misfortune, gives utterance to one
of the finest thoughts in the whole work:

   "It is strange men should dwell in the house of abjection, when
      the plain of God's earth is so wide and great." [443]

But there is another verse in the same tale that is also well worth remembering--we mean the
one uttered by Badr al-Din Hasan (turned tart merchant) when struck by a stone thrown by his son.

   Unjust it were to bid the world be just; and blame her not:
    She  ne'er was made for justice:
   Take what she gives thee, leave all griefs aside, for now to fair and
     Then to foul her lust is. [444]

We need do no more than mention the world-famous stories of the unfortunate Hunchback and the
pragmatical but charitable Barber. Very lovely is the tale of Nur al-Din and the Damsel Anis
al Jalis [445] better known as "Noureddin and the Beautiful Persian." How tender is the scene
when they enter the Sultan's garden! "Then they fared forth at once from the city, and Allah
spread over them His veil of protection, so that they reached the river bank, where they found
a vessel ready for sea." Arrived at Baghdad they enter a garden which turns out to be the Sultan's.
"By Allah," quoth Nur al-Din to the damsel, "right pleasant is this place." And she replied,
"O my lord, sit with me awhile on this bench, and let us take our ease. So they mounted and
sat them down... and the breeze blew cool on them, and they fell asleep, and glory be to Him
who never sleepeth." Little need to enquire what it is that entwines The Arabian Nights round
our hearts.

When calamity over took Nur al-Din he mused on the folly of heaping up riches:

   "Kisra and Caesars in a bygone day stored wealth; where is it,
   and ah! where are they?" [446]

But all came right in the end, for "Allah's aid is ever near at hand." The tale of Ghanim bin
Ayyub also ends happily. Then follows the interminable history of the lecherous and bellicose
King Omar. Very striking is its opening episode--the meeting of Prince Sharrkan with the lovely
Abrizah. "Though a lady like the moon at fullest, with ringleted hair and forehead sheeny white,
and eyes wondrous wide and black and bright, and temple locks like the scorpion's tail," she
was a mighty wrestler, and threw her admirer three times. The tender episode of the adventures
of the two forlorn royal children in Jerusalem is unforgettable; while the inner story of Aziz
and Azizah, with the touching account of Azizah's death, takes perhaps the highest place in
the Nights. The tale of King Omar, however, has too much fighting, just as that of Ali bin
Bakkar and Shams al Nahar, the amourist martyrs, as Burton calls them, has too much philandering.
Then comes the Tale of Kamar al Zaman I--about the Prince and the Princess whose beauty set
the fairy and the jinni disputing. How winning were the two wives of Kamar al Zaman in their
youth; how revolting after! The interpolated tale of Ni'amah and Naomi is tender and pretty,
and as the Arabs say, sweet as bees' honey. [447] All of us as we go through life occasionally
blunder like Ni'amah into the wrong room--knowing not what is written for us "in the Secret
Purpose." The most interesting feature of the "leprosy tale" of Ala-al-Din is the clairvoyance
exhibited by Zubaydah, who perceived that even so large a sum as ten thousand dinars would
be forthcoming--a feature which links it with the concluding story of the Nights--that of Ma'aruf
the cobbler; while the important part that the disguised Caliph Haroun Al-Rashid, Ja'afar and
Masrur play in it reminds us of the story of the Three Ladies of Baghdad. On this occasion,
however, there was a fourth masker, that hoary sinner and cynical humorist the poet Abu Nowas.

One of the most curious features of the Nights is the promptitude with which everyone--porters,
fishermen, ladies, caliphs--recites poetry. It is as if a cabman when you have paid him your
fare were to give you a quatrain from FitzGerald's rendering of Omar Khayyam, or a cripple
when soliciting your charity should quote Swinburne's Atalanta. Then in the midst of all this
culture, kindliness, generosity, kingliness, honest mirth,--just as we are beginning to honour
and love the great caliph, we come upon a tale [448] with the staggering commencement "When
Harun al Rashid crucified Ja'afar;" and if we try to comfort ourselves with the reflection
that we are reading only Fiction, History comes forward and tells us bluntly that it is naked
truth. Passing from this story, which casts so lurid a light over the Nights, we come to Abu
Mohammed, Lazybones, the Arab Dick Whittington, whose adventures are succeeded by those of
Ali Shar, a young man who, with nothing at all, purchases a beautiful slave girl--Zumurrud.
When, after a time, he loses her, he loses also his senses, and runs about crying:

   "The sweets of life are only for the mad."

By and by Zumurrud becomes a queen, and the lovers are re-united. She is still very beautiful,
very sweet, very pious, very tender, and she flays three men alive.

We need do no more than allude to "The Man of Al Yaman and his six Slave Girls," "The Ebony
Horse," and "Uns al Wujud and Rose in Hood."

The tale of the blue-stocking Tawaddud [449] is followed by a number of storyettes, some of
which are among the sweetest in the Nights. "The Blacksmith who could handle Fire without Hurt,"
"The Moslem Champion," with its beautiful thoughts on prayer, and "Abu Hasn and the Leper"
are all of them fragrant as musk. Then comes "The Queen of the Serpents" with the history of
Janshah, famous on account of the wonderful Split Men--the creatures already referred to in
this work, who used to separate longitudinally. The Sindbad cycle is followed by the melancholy
"City of Brass," and a great collection of anecdotes illustrative of the craft and malice of woman.

In "The Story of Judar" [450] we find by the side of a character of angelic goodness characters
of fiendish malevolence--Judar's brothers--a feature that links it with the stories of Abdullah
bin Fazil [451] and Abu Sir and Abu Kir. [452] Very striking is the account of the Mahrabis
whom Judar pushed into the lake, and who appeared with the soles of their feet above the water
and none can forget the sights which the necromancy of the third Maghrabi put before the eyes
of Judar. "Oh, Judar, fear not," said the Moor, "for they are semblances without life." The
long and bloody romance of Gharib and Ajib is followed by thirteen storyettes, all apparently
historical, and then comes the detective work of "The Rogueries of Dalilah," and 'the Adventures
of Mercury Ali." If "The Tale of Ardashir" is wearisome, that of "Julnar the Sea Born and her
son King Badr," which like "Abdullah of the Land, and Abdullah of the Sea," [453] concerns
mer-folk, amply atones for it. This, too, is the tale of the Arabian Circe, Queen Lab, who
turns people into animals. In "Sayf al Muluk," we make the acquaintance of that very singular
jinni whose soul is outside his body, and meet again with Sindbad's facetious acquaintance,
"The Old Man of the Sea."

"Hasan of Bassorah" is woven as it were out of the strands of the rainbow. Burton is here at
his happiest as a translator, and the beautiful words that he uses comport with the tale and
glitter like jewels. It was a favourite with him. He says, "The hero, with his hen-like persistency
of purpose, his weeping, fainting, and versifying, is interesting enough, and proves that 'Love
can find out the way.' The charming adopted sister, the model of what the feminine friend should
be; the silly little wife who never knows that she is happy till she loses happiness, the violent
and hard-hearted queen with all the cruelty of a good woman; and the manners and customs of
Amazon-land are outlined with a life-like vivacity."

Then follow the stories of Kalifah, Ali Nur al Din and Miriam the Girdle Girl [454]; the tales
grouped together under the title of "King Jalead of Hind;" and Abu Kir and Abu Sir, memorable
on account of the black ingratitude of the villain.

"Kamar al Zaman II." begins with the disagreeable incident of the Jeweller's Wife--"The Arab
Lady Godiva of the Wrong Sort"--and the wicked plot which she contrived in concert with the
depraved Kamar al Zaman. However, the storyteller enlists the reader's sympathies for the Jeweller,
who in the end gains a wife quite as devoted to him as his first wife had been false. The unfaithful
wife gets a reward which from an Arab point of view precisely meets the case. Somebody "pressed
hard upon her windpipe and brake her neck." "So," concludes the narrator, "he who deemeth all
women alike there is no remedy for the disease of his insanity." There is much sly humour in
the tale, as for example when we are told that even the cats and dogs were comforted when "Lady
Godiva" ceased to make her rounds. "Abdullah bin Fazil" is simply "The Eldest Lady's Tale"
with the sexes changed.

The last tale in the Nights, and perhaps the finest of all, is that of "Ma'aruf the Cobbler."
[455] Ma'aruf, who lived at Cairo, had a shrewish wife named Fatimah who beat him, and hauled
him before the Kazi because he had not been able to bring her "kunafah sweetened with bees'
honey." So he fled from her, and a good-natured Marid transported him to a distant city. Here
he encounters an old playfellow who lends him money and recommends him to play the wealthy
merchant, by declaring that his baggage is on the road. This he does with a thoroughness that
alarms his friend. He borrows money right and left and lavishes it upon beggars. He promises
to pay his creditors twice over when his baggage comes. By and by the king--a very covetous
man--hears of Ma'aruf's amazing generosity, and desirous himself of getting a share of the
baggage, places his treasury at Ma'aruf's disposal, and weds him to his daughter Dunya. Ma'arfu
soon empties the treasury, and the Wazir, who dislikes Ma'aruf, suspects the truth. Ma'aruf,
however, confesses everything to Dunya. She comes to his rescue, and her clairvoyance enables
her to see his future prosperity. Having fled from the king, Ma'aruf discovers a magic "souterrain"
and a talismanic seal ring, by the aid of which he attains incalculable wealth. Exclaims his
friend the merchant when Ma'aruf returns as a magnifico, "Thou hast played off this trick and
it hath prospered to thy hand, O Shaykh of Imposters! But thou deservest it." Ma'aruf ultimately
succeeds to the throne. Then occurs the death of the beautiful and tender Dunya--an event that
is recorded with simplicity and infinite pathos. The old harridan Fatimah next obtrudes, and,
exhibiting again her devilish propensities, receives her quietus by being very properly "smitten
on the neck." So ends this fine story, and then comes the conclusion of the whole work. This
is very touching, especially where the story-telling queen, who assumes that death is to be
her portion, wants to bid adieu to the children whom she had borne to the king. But, as the
dullest reader must have divined, the king had long before "pardoned" her in his heart, and
all ends pleasantly with the marriage of her sister Dunyazad to the king's brother.

What an array of figures--beautiful, revolting, sly, fatuous, witty, brave, pusillanimous,
mean, generous--meets the eye as we recall one by one these famous stories; beautiful and amorous,
but mercurial ladies with henna scented feet and black eyes--often with a suspicion of kohl
and more than a suspicion of Abu Murreh [456] in them--peeping cautiously through the close
jalousies of some lattice; love sick princes overcoming all obstacles; executioners with blood-dripping
scimitars; princesses of blinding beauty and pensive tenderness, who playfully knock out the
"jaw-teeth" of their eunuchs while "the thousand-voiced bird in the coppice sings clear;" [457]
hideous genii, whether of the amiable or the vindictive sort, making their appearance in unexpected
moments; pious beasts--nay, the very hills--praising Allah and glorifying his vice-gerent;
gullible saints, gifted scoundrels; learned men with camel loads of dictionaries and classics,
thieves with camel loads of plunder; warriors, zanies, necromancers, masculine women, feminine
men, ghouls, lutists, negroes, court poets, wags--the central figure being the gorgeous, but
truculent, Haroun Al Rashid, who is generally accompanied by Ja'afer and Masrur, and sometimes
by the abandoned but irresistible Abu Nowas. What magnificent trencher-folk they all are! Even
the love-lorn damsels. If you ask for a snack between meals they send in a trifle of 1,500
dishes. [458] Diamonds and amethysts are plentiful as blackberries. If you are a poet, and
you make good verses, it is likely enough that some queen will stuff your mouth with balass
rubies. How poorly our modern means of locomotion compare with those of the Nights. If you
take a jinni or a swan-maiden you can go from Cairo to Bokhara in less time than our best expresses
could cover a mile. The recent battles between the Russians and the Japanese are mere skirmishes
compared with the fight described in "The City of Brass"--where 700 million are engaged. The
people who fare worst in The Arabian Nights are those who pry into what does not concern them
or what is forbidden, as, for example, that foolish, fatuous Third Kalendar, and the equally
foolish and fatuous Man who Never Laughed Again; [459] and perhaps The Edinburgh Review was
right in giving as the moral of the tales: "Nothing is impossible to him who loves, provided"--and
the proviso is of crucial importance--"he is not cursed with a spirit of curiosity." Few persons
care, however, whether there is any moral or not--most of us would as soon look for one in
the outstretched pride of a peacock's tale.

Where the dust of Shahrazad is kept tradition does not tell us. If we knew we would hasten
to her tomb, and in imitation of the lover of Azizeh [460] lay thereon seven blood-red anemones.

Chapter XXVIII. The Two Translations Compared

134. The Blacksmith Who, etc.

Having glanced through the Nights, let us now compare the two famous translations.  As we have
already mentioned, Burton in his Translator's Foreword did not do Mr. Payne complete justice,
but he pays so many compliments to Mr. Payne's translation elsewhere that no one can suppose
that he desired to underrate the work of his friend.  Still this does not go far enough, seeing
that, as we said before, he made his translation very largely a paraphrase of Payne's.  Consequently
he was able to get done in two broken years (April 1884 to April 1886) and with several other
books in hand, work that had occupied Mr. Payne six years (1876-1882).  Let us now take Mr.
Payne's rendering and Burton's rendering of two short tales and put them in juxtaposition.
The Blacksmith who could handle Fire without Hurt and Abu Al Hasan and Abu Ja'afar the Leper
will suit our purpose admirably.

The portion taken by Burton from Payne are in italics.

         Payne                             Burton
     Vol. V. p. 25                      Vol. V. p. 271
                                (Lib. Ed., vol. iv., p. 220)

    THE BLACKSMITH WHO               THE BLACKSMITH WHO
    COULD HANDLE FIRE                 COULD HANDLE FIRE
     WITHOUT HURT                       WITHOUT HURT

  A certain pious man             It reached the ears of
once heard that there           a certain pious man that
abode in such a town a          there abode in such a town
blacksmith who could            a blacksmith who could
put his hand into the fire      put his hand into the fire
and pull out the red-hot        and pull out the iron red-hot,
iron, without its doing         without the flames
him any hurt.  So he set        doing him aught of hurt.
out for the town in question    So he set out for the town in
and enquiring for the           question and asked for
blacksmith, watched him         the blacksmith; and when
at work and saw him do          the man was shown to
as had been reported to         him; he watched him at
him.  He waited till he         work and saw him do as
had made an end of his          had been reported to him.
day's work, then going          He waited till he had made
up to him, saluted him          an end of his day's work;
and said to him, "I             then, going up to him,
would fain be thy guest         saluted him with the salam
this night."  "With all         and said, "I would be thy
my heart," replied the          guest this night."  Replied
smith, and carried him to       the smith, "With gladness
his house, where they           and goodly gree!" and
supped together and lay         carried him to his place,
down to sleep.  The guest       where they supped together
watched his host, but           and lay down to sleep.
found no sign of [special]      The guest watched but saw
devoutness in him and           no sign in his host of praying
said to himself.  "Belike       through the night or
he concealeth himself from      of special devoutness, and
me."  So he lodged with         said in his mind, "Haply
him a second and a third        he hideth himself from
night, but found that he        me."  So he lodged with
did no more than observe        him a second and a third
the ordinary letter of the      night, but found that he
law and rose but little         did not exceed the devotions
in the night [to pray].  At     prescribed by the
last he said to him, "O         law and custom of the
my brother, I have heard        Prophet and rose but little
of the gift with which          in the dark hours to pray.
God hath favoured thee          At last he said to him, "O
and have seen the truth of      my brother, I have heard
it with mine eyes.  Moreover,   of the gift with which
I have taken note of            Allah hath favoured thee,
thine assiduity [in             and have seen the truth of
religious exercises], but       it with mine eyes.  Moreover,
find in thee no special         I have taken note
fervour of piety, such as       of thine assiduity in
distinguisheth those in         religious exercises, but find
whom such miraculous            in thee no such piety as
gifts are manifest.             distinguished those who work
"Whence, then, cometh           saintly miracles; whence,
this to thee?"  "I will         then cometh this to thee?"
tell thee," answered the        "I will tell thee,"
smith.                          answered the smith.

"Know that I was once           "Know that I was once passionately enamoured of       passionately
enamoured a certain damsel and            of a slave girl and oft-times required her many a
time        sued her for loveliesse, of love, but could not          but could not prevail
prevail upon her, for           upon her, because she that she still clave fast       still
held fast by her unto chastity.  Presently       chastity.  Presently there there came a year
of            came a year of drought and drought and hunger and          hunger and hardship,
food hardship; food failed and       failed, and there befell a there befell a sore famine
sore famine.  As I was in the land.  I was sitting     sitting one day at home, one day in
my house,            somebody knocked at the when one knocked at the         door; so I went
out, and, door; so I went out and         behold, she was standing found her standing there;
there; and she said to and she said to me, 'O          me, 'O my brother, I am my brother,
I am stricken       sorely an hungered and I with excessive hunger, and      lift mine eyes
to thee, I lift mine eyes to thee,       beseeching thee to feed me, beseeching thee to feed
for Allah's sake!'  Quoth me for God's sake!'                I, 'Wottest thou not how Quoth
I, 'Dost thou not         I love thee and what I have know how I love thee            suffered
for thy sake?  Now and what I have suffered        I will not give thee one for thy sake! 
I will give      bittock of bread except thee no whit of food,           thou yield thy person
except thou yield thyself       to me.'  Quoth she, to me.'  But she said,          'Death,
but not 'Better death than              disobedience to the Lord!' disobedience to God.'  Then
Then she went away and she went away and               returned after two days with returned
after two days         the same prayer for food with the same petition          as before.
I made her a for food.  I made her a like    like answer, and she answer, and she entered 
entered and sat down in my and sat down, being nigh        house, being nigh upon upon death.
I set food         death.  I set food before before her, whereupon her       her, whereupon
her eyes eyes ran over with tears,       brimmed with tears, and and she said, 'Give me   
she cried, 'Give me meat to eat for the love of God,     for the love of Allah, to to whom
belong might            whom belong Honour and and majesty!'  'Not so,         Glory!'  But
I answered by Allah,' answered I,          'Not so, by Allah, except 'except thou yield thyself
thou yield thyself to me.' to me.'  Quoth she,             Quoth she, 'Better is 'Better is
death to me          death to me than the wrath than the wrath of God           and wreak of
Allah the the Most High.'  And            Most Highest; and she she left the food         
rose and left the food untouched untouched [461] and went away  [461] and went away repeating
the following         repeating these couplets: verses:

O, Thou, the only God, whose    O, Thou, the One, whose grace
  grace embraceth all that be,    doth all the world embrace;
  Thine ears have heard my        Thine ears have heard, Thine
  moan, Thine eyes have seen      eyes have seen my case!
  my misery;

Indeed, privation and distress  Privation and distress have dealt
  are heavy on my head; I         me heavy blows; the woes
  cannot tell of all the woes     that weary me no utterance
  that do beleaguer me.           can trace.

I'm like a man athirst, that    I am like one athirst who eyes
  looks upon a running stream,    the landscape's eye, yet may
  yet may not drink a single      not drink a draught of
  draught of all that he doth     streams that rail and race.
  see.

My flesh would have me buy its  My flesh would tempt me by the
  will, alack, its pleasures      sight of savoury food whose
  flee!  The sin that pays their  joys shall pass away and
  price abides to all eternity.   pangs maintain their place.

[The girl, "worn out with want," came a third time, and met with the same answer.  But then
remorse seized upon the blacksmith and he bade her, "eat, and fear not."]

"When she heard this            "Then she raised her eyes she raised her eyes to          to
heaven and said, heaven and said,

"'O my God, if this             "'O my God, if this man man be sincere, I pray          say
sooth, I pray thee Thee forbid fire to do          forbid fire to harm him him hurt in this
world          in this world and the and the next, for Thou art      next, for Thou over all
He that answereth prayer        things art Omnipotent and and art powerful to do          Prevalent
in answering the whatsoever Thou wilt!'          prayer of the penitent!'

"Then I left her and            Then I left her and went went to put out the fire        to
put out the fire in in the brasier.  Now the        the brazier.  Now the time was the winter-cold,
season was winter and the and a hot coal fell on          weather cold, and a live my body;
but by the             coal fell on my body, but ordinance of God (to            by the decree
of Allah (to whom belong might and           whom be Honour and majesty), I felt no pain  
Glory!) I felt no pain, and and it was born in upon         it became my conviction me that
her prayer had          that her prayer had been been answered."                 answered."

[The girl then praised God, who "straightway took her soul to Him." The story finishes with
some verses which are rendered by Payne and Burton each according to his wont.]

135. Abu al-Hasan.

We will next take "Abu al-Hasan and Abu Ja'afar the Leper."

         Payne                             Burton
         V. 49                             V. 294
                                    (Lib. Ed., iv., 242)

   ABOULHUSN ED DURRAJ                 ABU AL-HASAN
   AND ABOU JAAFER THE                      AND
         LEPER                     ABU JA'AFAR THE LEPER

Quoth Aboulhusn ed              I had been many times Durraj, I had been many         to Mecca
(Allah increase times to Mecca (which           its honour!) and the folk God increase in honour)
used to follow me for my and the folk used to follow     knowledge of the road and me by reason
of my knowledge    remembrance of the water of the road and                 stations.  It happened
one the watering-places.  It        year that I was minded to chanced one year that I     
make the pilgrimage to was minded to make the          the Holy House and visitation pilgrimage
to the Holy          of the tomb of His House of God and visit the      Prophet (on whom be
tomb of His prophet (on         blessing and the Peace!) whom be peace and blessing),    and
I said in myself.  "I and I said to myself,           well know the way and "I know the road
and will       will fare alone."  So I go alone."  So I set out        set out and journeyed
till I and journeyed till I came       came to Al-Kadisiyah, and to El Cadesiyeh, and entering
entering the Mosque there, the Mosque there, saw           saw a man suffering from a leper
seated in the           black leprosy seated in prayer-niche.  When he          the prayer-niche.
Quoth he saw me, he said to me,          on seeing me, "O Abu "O Aboulhusn, I crave       
al-Hasan, I crave thy company thy company to Mecca."          to Meccah."  Quoth I Quoth I
to myself, "I           to myself, "I fled from all wished to avoid companions,     my companions
and how and how shall I                 shall I company with lepers." company with lepers?"
So I said to him, "I will So I said to him, "I will       bear no man company," bear no one
company,"           and he was silent at my and he was silent.              words.

Next day I continued            Next day I walked on my journey alone, till I        alone,
till I came to came to Acabeh, where           Al-Akabah, where I entered I entered the Mosque
and        the mosque and found the was amazed to find the          leper seated in the prayer
leper seated in the prayer-     niche.  So I said to myself, niche.  "Glory be to God,"   
"Glory be to Allah! said I in myself.  "How         how hath this fellow preceded hath this
fellow foregone       me hither."  But me hither?"  But he             he raised his head to
me raised his eyes to me           and said with a smile, "O and said, smiling, "O,       
Abu al-Hasan, He doth Aboulhusn, He doth for          for the weak that which the weak that
which the         surpriseth the strong!" strong wonder at."  I           I passed that night
confounded passed that night in            at what I had perplexity, confounded at       seen;
and, as soon as what I had seen, and in         morning dawned, set out the morning set out
again       again by myself; but by myself; but when I           when I came to Arafat came
to Arafat and entered      and entered the mosque, the mosque, behold,             behold!
there was the leper there was the leper seated      seated in the niche.  So I in the niche!
So I threw       threw myself upon him myself upon him and kissing     and kissing his feet
said, his feet, said, "O my           "O my lord, I crave thy lord, I crave thy company." 
company."  But he answered, But he said,                    "This may in no "This may nowise
be."           way be."  Then I began Whereupon I fell a-weeping      weeping and wailing at
and lamenting, and              the loss of his company he said: "Peace: weeping        when
he said, "Spare thy will avail thee nothing,"       tears, which will avail thee And he recited
the              naught!" and he recited following verses:               these couplets:

For my estrangement dost thou   Why dost thou weep when I
  weep,--whereas it came          depart and thou didst parting
  from thee,--And restoration     claim; and cravest union
  dost implore, when none,        when we ne'er shall re-unite
  alas! may be?                   the same?

Thou sawst my weakness and      Thou lookedest on nothing save
  disease, as it appeared, and    my weakness and disease;
  saidst, "He goes, nor comes,    and saidst, "Nor goes, nor
  or night, or day, for this his  comes, or night, or day, this
  malady."                        sickly frame."

Seest not that God (exalted be    Seest not how Allah (glorified
  His glory) to His slave           His glory ever be!) deigneth
  vouchsafeth all he can conceive   to grant His slave's petition
  of favour fair and free!          wherewithal he came.

If I, to outward vision, be as    If I, to eyes of men be that and
  it appears and eke in body, for   only that they see, and this
  despite of fate, e'en that        my body show itself so full
  which thou dost see.              of grief and grame.

And eke no victual though I       And I have nought of food that
  have, unto the holy place         shall supply me to the place
  where crowds unto my Lord         where crowds unto my Lord
  resort, indeed, to carry me.      resort impelled by single aim.

I have a Maker, hidden are His    I have a high Creating Lord
  bounties unto me; yea,            whose mercies aye are hid;
  there's no parting me from        a Lord who hath none equal
  Him, and without peer is He.      and no fear is known to Him.

Depart from me in peace and       So fare thee safe and leave me
  leave me and my strangerhood;     lone in strangerhood to wone.
  For with the lonely               For He the only One, consoles
  exile still the One shall         my loneliness so lone.
  company.

So I left him and continued       Accordingly I left him,
my journey; and                   but every station I came
every stage I came to, I          to, I found he had foregone
found him before me, till         me, till I reached Al-Madinah,
I came to Medina, where           where I lost sight
I lost sight of him and           of him, and could hear
could hear no news of             no tidings of him.  Here
him.  Here I met Abou             I met Abu Yazid
Yezid el Bustani and Abou         al-Bustami and Abu Bakr
Beker es Shibli and a             al-Shibli and a number of
number of other doctors,          other Shaykhs and learned
to whom I told my case,           men to whom with many
and they said, "God               complaints I told my case,
forbid that thou shouldst         and they said, "Heaven
gain his company after            forbid that thou shouldst
this!  This was Abou              gain his company after
Jaafer the leper, in whose        this!  He was Abu Ja'afar
name, at all tides, the folk      the leper, in whose name
pray for rain, and by whose       folk at all times pray for
blessings prayers are answered."  rain and by whose blessing
When I heard                      prayers their end attain."
this, my longing for his          When I heard their words,
company redoubled and             my desire for his company
I implored God to reunite         redoubled and I implored
me with him.  Whilst I            the Almighty to reunite me
was standing on Arafat,           with him.  Whilst I was
one plucked me from behind,       standing on Arafat one
so I turned and                   pulled me from behind, so
behold, it was Abou Jaafer.       I turned and behold, it
At this sight I gave a loud       was my man.  At this
cry and fell down in a            sight I cried out with a
swoon; but when I came            loud cry and fell down in
to myself, he was gone.           a fainting fit; but when I
                                  came to myself he had disappeared
                                  from my sight.

This increased my yearning        This increased my yearning
for him and the ways              for him and the
were straitened upon              ceremonies were tedious to
me and I prayed God to            me, and I prayed Almighty
give me sight of him;             Allah to give me sight of
nor was it but a few days         him; nor was it but a few
after when one pulled me          days after, when lo! one
from behind, and I turned,        pulled me from behind,
and behold, it was he             and I turned and it was
again.  Quoth he, "I conjure      he again.  Thereupon he
thee, ask thy desire              said, "Come, I conjure
of me."  So I begged him          thee, and ask thy want of
to pray three prayers to          me."  So I begged him to
God for me; first, that           pray for me three prayers:
He would make me love             first, that Allah would make
poverty; secondly, that I         me love poverty; secondly,
might never lie down to           that I might never lie down
sleep upon known provision,       at night upon provision
and thirdly, that                 assured to me; and
He, the Bountiful One,            thirdly, that he would
would vouchsafe me to             vouchsafe me to look upon
look upon His face.  So he        His bountiful face.  So
prayed for me, as I wished,       he prayed for me as I
and departed from me.             wished, and departed from
And, indeed, God hath             me.  And indeed Allah
granted me the first two          hath granted me what the
prayers; for He hath              devotee asked in prayer;
made me in love with              to begin with he hath made
poverty, so that, by Allah,       me so love poverty that, by
there is nought in the            the Almighty! there is
world dearer to me than           nought in the world dearer
it, and since such a year,        to me than it, and secondly
I have never lain down            since such a year I have
upon assured provision;           never lain down to sleep
yet hath He never let me          upon assured provision,
lack of aught.  As for the        withal hath He never let
third prayer, I trust that        me lack aught.  As for the
He will vouchsafe me that         third prayer, I trust that
also, even as He hath             he will vouchsafe me that
granted the two others,           also, even as He hath
for He is bountiful and           granted the two precedent,
excellently beneficient.  And     for right Bountiful and
may God have mercy on             Beneficient is His Godhead,
him who saith:                    and Allah have mercy on
                                  him who said;

Renouncement, lowliness, the      Garb of Fakir, renouncement,
  fakir's garments be; In           lowliness;
  patched and tattered clothes    His robe of tatters and of rags
  still fares the devotee.          his dress;

Pallor adorneth him, as on their  And pallor ornamenting brow
  latest nights, The moons          as though
  with pallor still embellished   'Twere wanness such as waning
  thou mayst see.                   crescents show.

Long rising up by night to pray   Wasted him prayer a-through
  hath wasted him; And from         the long-lived night,
  his lids the tears stream down. And flooding tears ne'er cease
  as 'twere a sea.                  to dim his sight.

The thought of God to him his     Memory of Him shall cheer his
  very housemate is; For            lonely room;
  bosom friend by night, th'      Th' Almighty nearest is in
  Omnipotent hath he.               nightly gloom.

God the Protector helps the fakir The Refuge helpeth such Fakir
  in his need; And birds and        in need;
  beasts no less to succour him   Help e'en the cattle and the
  agree.                            winged breed;

On his account, the wrath of      Allah for sake of him of wrath
  God on men descends, And          is fain,
  by his grace, the rains fall    And for the grace of him shall
  down on wood and lea.             fall the rain;

And if he pray one day to do      And if he pray one day for plague
  away a plague, The oppressor's    to stay,
  slain and men from              'Twill stay, and 'bate man's
  tyrants are made free;            wrong and tyrants slay.

For all the folk are sick,        While folk are sad, afflicted one
  afflicted and diseased, And he's  and each,
  the pitying leach withouten     He in his mercy's rich, the
  stint or fee.                     generous leach;

His forehead shines; an thou      Bright shines his brow; an thou
  but look upon his face, Thy       regard his face
  heart is calmed, the lights of  Thy heart illumined shines by
  heaven appear to thee.            light of grace.

O thou that shunnest these, their  O thou that shunnest souls of
  virtues knowing not, Woe's        worth innate,
  thee!  Thou'rt shut from        Departs thee (woe to thee!) of
  them by thine iniquity.           sins the weight.

Thou think'st them to o'ertake,   Thou thinkest to overtake them,
  for all thou'rt fettered fast;    while thou bearest
  Thy sins from thy desire        Follies, which slay thee whatso
  do hinder thee, perdie.           way thou farest.

Thou wouldst to them consent      Didst not their worth thou hadst
  and rivers from thine eyes        all honour showed
  Would run from them, if thou    And tears in streamlets from
  their excellence could'st see.    thine eyes had flowed.

Uneath to him to smell, who's     To catarrh-troubled men flowers
  troubled with a rheum, Are        lack their smell;
  flowers; the broker knows       And brokers ken for how much
  what worth the garments be.       clothes can sell;

So supplicate thy Lord right      So haste and with thy Lord
  humbly for His grace And          re-union sue,
  Providence, belike, shall       And haply fate shall lend thee
  help thy constancy;               aidance due.

And thou shalt win thy will and   Rest from rejection and
  from estrangement's stress        estrangement stress,
  And eke rejection's pains       And joy thy wish and will shall
  shall be at rest and free.        choicely bless.

The asylum of His grace is wide   His court wide open for the
  enough for all That seek; The     suer is dight:--
  one true God, the               One, very God, the Lord, th'
  Conqueror, is He!                 Almighty might.

We may also compare the two renderings of that exquisite and tender little poem "Azizeh's Tomb"
[462] which will be found in the "Tale of Aziz and Azizeh."

         Payne                             Burton

I passed by a ruined tomb in the  I past by a broken tomb amid
  midst of a garden way, Upon       a garth right sheen, Whereon
  whose letterless stone seven      on seven blooms of Nu'aman
  blood-red anemones lay.           glowed with cramoisie.

"Who sleeps in this unmarked      Quoth I, "Who sleepeth in this
  grave?"  I said, and the          tomb?"  Quoth answering
  earth, "Bend low; For a           earth, "Before a lover
  lover lies here and waits for     Hades-tombed bend reverently."
  the Resurrection Day."

"God keep thee, O victim of       Quoth I, "May Allah help thee,
  love!"  I cried, "and bring       O thou slain of love, And
  thee to dwell In the highest      grant thee home in heaven
  of all the heavens of Paradise,   and Paradise-height to see!
  I pray!

"How wretched are lovers all,     "Hapless are lovers all e'en
  even in the sepulchre,            tombed in their tombs,
  For their very tombs are          Where amid living folk the
  covered with ruin and decay!      dust weighs heavily!

"Lo! if I might, I would plant    "Fain would I plant a garden
  thee a garden round about,        blooming round thy grave
  and with my streaming tears       And water every flower with
  the thirst of its flowers         tear-drops flowing
  allay!"                           free!" [463]

136. The Summing Up.

The reader will notice from these citations:

(1) That, as we have already said, and as Burton himself partly admitted, Burton's translation
is largely a paraphrase of Payne's. This is particularly noticeable in the latter half of the
Nights. He takes hundreds--nay thousands--of sentences and phrases from Payne, often without
altering a single word. [464] If it be urged that Burton was quite capable of translating the
Nights without drawing upon the work of another, we must say that we deeply regret that he
allowed the opportunity to pass, for he had a certain rugged strength of style, as the best
passages in his Mecca and other books show. In order to ensure originality he ought to have
translated every sentence before looking to see how Payne put it, but the temptation was too
great for a very busy man--a man with a hundred irons in the fire--and he fell. [465]

(2) That, where there are differences, Payne's translation is invariably the clearer, finer
and more stately of the two. Payne is concise, Burton diffuse. [466]

(3) That although Burton is occasionally happy and makes a pat couplet, like the one beginning
"Kisras and Caesars," nevertheless Payne alone writes poetry, Burton's verse being quite unworthy
of so honourable a name. Not being, like Payne, a poet and a lord of language; and, as he admits,
in his notes, not being an initiate in the methods of Arabic Prosody, Burton shirked the isometrical
rendering of the verse. Consequently we find him constantly annexing Payne's poetry bodily,
sometimes with acknowledgement, oftener without. Thus in Night 867 he takes half a page. Not
only does he fail to reproduce agreeably the poetry of the Nights, but he shows himself incapable
of properly appreciating it. Notice, for example, his remark on the lovely poem of the Fakir
at the end of the story of "Abu Al-Hasan and Abu Ja'afer the Leper," the two versions of which
we gave on a preceding page. Burton calls it "sad doggerel," and, as he translates it, so it
is. But Payne's version, with its musical subtleties and choice phrases, such as "The thought
of God to him his very housemate is," is a delight to the ear and an enchantment of the sense.
Mr. Payne in his Terminal Essay singles out the original as one of the finest pieces of devotional
verse in the Nights; and worthy of Vaughan or Christina Rossetti. The gigantic nature of Payne's
achievement will be realised when we mention that The Arabian Nights contains the equivalent
of some twenty thousand decasyllabic lines of poetry, that is to say more than there are in
Milton's Paradise Lost, and that he has rendered faithfully the whole of this enormous mass
in accordance with the intricate metrical scheme of the original, and in felicitous and beautiful
language.

(4) That Burton, who was well read in the old English poets, also introduces beautiful words.
This habit, however, is more noticeable in other passages where we come upon cilice, [467]
egromancy, [468] verdurous, [469] vergier, [470] rondure, [471] purfled, [472] &c. Often he
uses these words with excellent effect, as, for example, "egromancy," [473] in the sentence:
"Nor will the egromancy be dispelled till he fall from the horse;" but unfortunately he is
picturesque at all costs. Thus he constantly puts "purfled" where he means "embroidered" or
"sown," and in the "Tale of the Fisherman and the Jinni," he uses incorrectly the pretty word
"cucurbit" [474] to express a brass pot; and many other instances might be quoted. His lapses,
indeed, indicate that he had no real sense of the value of words. He uses them because they
are pretty, forgetting that no word is attractive except in its proper place, just as colours
in painting owe their value to their place in the general colour scheme. He took most of his
beautiful words from our old writers, and a few like ensorcelled [475] from previous translators.
Unfortunately, too, he spoils his version by the introduction of antique words that are ugly,
uncouth, indigestible and yet useless. What, for example, does the modern Englishman make of
this, taken from the "Tale of the Wolf and the Fox," "Follow not frowardness, for the wise
forbid it; and it were most manifest frowardness to leave me in this pit draining the agony
of death and dight to look upon mine own doom, whereas it lieth in thy power to deliver me
from my stowre?" [476] Or this: "O rare! an but swevens [477] prove true," from "Kamar-al-Zalam
II." Or this "Sore pains to gar me dree," from "The Tale of King Omar," or scores of others
that could easily be quoted. [478]

Burton, alas! was also unscrupulous enough to include one tale which, he admitted to Mr. Kirby,
does not appear in any redaction of the Nights, namely that about the misfortune that happened
to Abu Hassan on his Wedding day. [479] "But," he added, "it is too good to be omitted." Of
course the tale does not appear in Payne. To the treatment meted by each translator to the
coarsenesses of the Nights we have already referred. Payne, while omitting nothing, renders
such passages in literary language, whereas Burton speaks out with the bluntness and coarseness
of an Urquhart.

In his letter to Mr. Payne, 22nd October 1884, he says of Mr. Payne's translation, "The Nights
are by no means literal but very readable which is the thing." He then refers to Mr. Payne's
rendering of a certain passage in the "Story of Sindbad and the Old Man of the Sea," by which
it appears that the complaint of want of literality refers, as usual, solely to the presentable
rendering of the offensive passages. "I translate," he says **********. "People will look fierce,
but ce n'est pas mon affaire." The great value of Burton's translation is that it is the work
of a man who had travelled in all the countries in which the scenes are laid; who had spent
years in India, Egypt, Syria, Turkey and the Barbary States, and had visited Mecca; who was
intimately acquainted with the manners and customs of the people of those countries, and who
brought to bear upon his work the experience of a lifetime. He is so thoroughly at home all
the while. Still, it is in his annotations and not in his text that he really excells. The
enormous value of these no one would now attempt to minimize.

All over the world, as Sir Walter Besant says, "we have English merchants, garrisons, consuls,
clergymen, lawyers, physicians, engineers, living among strange people, yet practically ignorant
of their manners and thoughts..... it wants more than a knowledge of the tongue to become really
acquainted with a people." These English merchants, garrisons, consults and others are strangers
in a strange land. It is so very rare that a really unprejudiced man comes from a foreign country
to tell us what its people are like, that when such a man does appear we give him our rapt
attention. He may tell us much that will shock us, but that cannot be helped.

Chapter XXIX. Burton's Notes

137. Burton's Notes.

These Notes, indeed, are the great speciality of Burton's edition of the Nights. They are upon
all manner of subjects--from the necklace of the Pleiades to circumcision; from necromancy
to the characteristics of certain Abyssinian women; from devilish rites and ceremonies to precious
stones as prophylactics. They deal not only with matters to which the word erotic is generally
applied, but also with unnatural practices. There are notes geographical, astrological, geomantic,
bibliographical, ethnological, anthropomorphitical; but the pornographic, one need hardly say,
hugely predominate. Burton's knowledge was encyclopaedic. Like Kerimeddin [480] he had drunk
the Second Phial of the Queen of the Serpents. He was more inquisitive than Vathek. To be sure,
he would sometimes ask himself what was the good of it all or what indeed, was the good of
anything; and then he would relate the rebuke he once received from an indolent Spaniard whom
he had found lying on his back smoking a cigarette. "I was studying the thermometer," said
Burton, and I remarked, "'The glass is unusually high.' 'When I'm hot, it's hot,' commented
the Spaniard, lazily, 'and when I'm cold it's cold. What more do I want to know?'" Burton,
as we have seen, had for a long time devoted himself particularly to the study of vice and
to everything that was bizarre and unnatural: eunuchs, pederasts, hermaphrodites, idiots, Augustus-the-Strongs,
monstrosities. During his travels he never drank anything but green tea, and if Le Fanu's ideas
[481] in In a Glass Darkly are to be respected, this habit is partly responsible for his extraordinary
bias. He deals with subjects that are discussed in no other book. He had seen many lands, and,
like Hafiz, could say:

   "Plunder I bore from far and near,
    From every harvest gleaned an ear;"

and blighted ears some of them were. No other man could have written these notes; no other
man, even if possessed of Burton's knowledge, would have dared to publish them. Practically
they are a work in themselves. That they were really necessary for the elucidation of the text
we would not for a moment contend. At times they fulfil this office, but more often than not
the text is merely a peg upon which to hang a mass of curious learning such as few other men
have ever dreamt of. The voluminous note on circumcision [482] is an instance in point. There
is no doubt that he obtained his idea of esoteric annotation from Gibbon, who, though he used
the Latin medium, is in this respect the true father of Burton. We will give specimens of the
annotations, taken haphazard--merely premising that the most characteristic of them--those
at which the saints in heaven knit their brows--necessarily in a work of this kind exclude
themselves from citations:

"Laughter. 'Sweetness of her smile'(Abu al Husn and Tawaddud). Arab writers often mention the
smile of beauty, but rarely, after European fashion, the laugh, which they look upon as undignified.
A Moslem will say 'Don't guffaw (kahkahah) in that way; leave giggling and grinning to monkeys
and Christians.' The Spaniards, a grave people, remark that Christ never laughed." [483]

"Swan-maidens. 'And became three maidens' (Story of Janshah). [484] We go much too far for
an explanation of the legend; a high bred girl is so much like a swan [485] in many points
that the idea readily suggests itself. And it is also aided by the old Egyptian (and Platonic)
belief in pre-existence, and by the Rabbinic and Buddhistic doctrine of Ante-Natal sin, to
say nothing of metempsychosis. (Josephus' Antiq., xvii., 153)."

"The Firedrake. 'I am the Haunter of this place' (Ma'aruf the Cobbler). [486] Arab, Amir=one
who inhabiteth. Ruins and impure places are the favourite homes of the Jinn."

"Sticking Coins on the Face. 'Sticks the gold dinar' (Ali Nur al-Din). [487] It is the custom
for fast youths in Egypt, Syria, and elsewhere to stick small gold pieces, mere spangles of
metal, on the brows, cheeks and lips of the singing and dancing girls, and the perspiration
and mask of cosmetics make them adhere for a time, till fresh movement shakes them off."

"Fillets hung on trees. 'Over the grave was a tall tree, on which hung fillets of red and green'
(Otbah and Rayya). [488] Lane and many others are puzzled about the use of these articles.
In many cases they are suspended to trees in order to transfer sickness from the body to the
tree and to whoever shall touch it. The Sawahili people term such articles a Keti (seat or
vehicle) for the mysterious haunter of the tree, who prefers occupying it to the patient's
person. Briefly the custom, still popular throughout Arabia, is African and Fetish."

The value of the notes depends, of course, upon the fact that they are the result of personal
observation. In his knowledge of Eastern peoples, languages and customs Burton stands alone.
He is first and there is no second. His defence of his notes will be found in the last volume
of his Supplemental Nights. We may quote a few sentences to show the drift of it. He says "The
England of our day would fain bring up both sexes and keep all ages in profound ignorance of
sexual and intersexual relations; and the consequences of that imbecility are particularly
cruel and afflicting. How often do we hear women in Society lamenting that they have absolutely
no knowledge of their own physiology.... Shall we ever understand that ignorance is not innocence.
What an absurdum is a veteran officer who has spent a quarter of a century in the East without
knowing that all Moslem women are circumcised, and without a notion of how female circumcision
is effected," and then he goes on to ridicule what the "modern Englishwoman and her Anglo-American
sister have become under the working of a mock modesty which too often acts cloak to real devergondage;
and how Respectability unmakes what Nature made." [489]

Mr. Payne's edition contains notes, but they were intended simply to elucidate the text. Though
succinct, they are sufficient for the general reader. Here and there, however, we come upon
a more elaborate note, such as that upon the tuning of the lute (Vol. viii., 179), where Mr.
Payne's musical knowledge enables him to elucidate an obscure technical point. He also identified
(giving proper chapter and verse references), collated, and where needful corrected all the
Koranic citations with which the text swarms, a task which demanded great labour and an intimate
knowledge of the Koran. The appropriate general information bearing on the work he gave in
a succinct and artistic form in his elaborate Terminal Essay--a masterpiece of English--in
which he condensed the result of erudition and research such as might have furnished forth
several folio volumes.

138. The Terminal Essay.

Finally there is the Terminal Essay, in which Burton deals at great length not only with the
origin and history of the Nights and matters erotic, but also with unnatural practices. This
essay, with the exception of the pornographic portions, will be found, by those who take the
trouble to make comparisons, to be under large obligations to Mr. Payne's Terminal Essay, the
general lines and scheme of which it follows closely. Even Mr. Payne's special phrases such
as "sectaries of the god Wunsch," [490] are freely used, and without acknowledgement. The portions
on sexual matters, however, are entirely original. Burton argues that the "naive indecencies
of the text of The Arabian Nights are rather gaudisserie than prurience." "It is," he says,
"a coarseness of language, not of idea.... Such throughout the East is the language of every
man, woman and child, from prince to peasant." "But," he continues, "there is another element
in the Nights, and that is one of absolute obscenity, utterly repugnant to English readers,
even the least prudish." Still, upon this subject he offers details, because it does not enter
into his plan "to ignore any theme which is interesting to the Orientalist and the Anthropologist.
To assert that such lore is unnecessary is to state, as every traveller knows, an absurdum."

That these notes and the Terminal Essay were written in the interests of Oriental and Anthropological
students may be granted, but that they were written solely in the interests of these students
no one would for a moment contend. Burton simply revelled in all studies of the kind. Whatever
was knowledge he wanted to know; and we may add whatever wasn't knowledge. He was insatiable.
He was like the little boy who, seeing the ocean for the first time, cried, "I want to drink
it all up." And Burton would have drunk it all. He would have swallowed down not only all the
waters that were under the firmament but also all the creatures, palatable and unpalatable--especially
the unpalatable--that sported therein.

139. Final Summing up.

To sum up finally: (1) Both translations are complete, they are the only complete translations
in English, and the world owes a deep debt of gratitude to both Payne and Burton.

(2) According to Arabists, Payne's Translation is the more accurate of the two. [491]

(3) Burton's translation is largely a paraphrase of Payne's.

(4) Persons who are in love with the beauty of restraint as regards ornament, and hold to the
doctrine which Flaubert so well understood and practised, and Pater so persistently preached
will consider Payne's translation incomparably the finer.

(5) Burton's translation is for those who, caring nothing for this doctrine, revel in rococo
work, a style flamboyant at all costs, and in lawless splendours; and do not mind running against
expressions that are far too blunt for the majority of people.

(6) Payne's rendering of the metrical portions is poetry; Burton's scarcely verse.

(7) Burton's Terminal Essay, with the exception of the pornographic sections, is largely indebted
to Payne's.

(8) The distinctive features of Burton's work are his notes and the pornographic sections of
his Terminal Essay--the whole consisting of an amazing mass of esoteric learning, the result
of a lifetime's study. Many of the notes have little, if any, connection with the text, and
they really form an independent work.

Burton himself says: "Mr. Payne's admirable version appeals to the Orientalist and the Stylist,
not to the many-headed; and mine to the anthropologist and student of Eastern manners and customs."
Burton's Arabian Nights has been well summed up as "a monument of knowledge and audacity." [492]

Having finished his task Burton straightway commenced the translation of a number of other
Arabic tales which he eventually published as Supplemental Nights [493] in six volumes, the
first two of which correspond with Mr. Payne's three volumes entitled Tales from the Arabic.

140. Mr. Swinburne on Burton.

Congratulations rained in on Burton from all quarters; but the letters that gave him most pleasure
were those from Mr. Ernest A. Floyer and Mr. A. C. Swinburne, whose glowing sonnet:

    "To Richard F. Burton
  On his Translation of the Arabian Nights"

is well known. "Thanks to Burton's hand," exclaims the poet magnificently:

  "All that glorious Orient glows
   Defiant of the dusk.  Our twilight land
   Trembles; but all the heaven is all one rose,
   Whence laughing love dissolves her frosts and snows."

In his Poems and Ballads, 3rd Series, 1889, Mr. Swinburne pays yet another tribute to the genius
of his friend. Its dedication runs:--"Inscribed to Richard F. Burton. In redemption of an old
pledge and in recognition of a friendship which I must always count among the highest honours
of my life."

If private persons accorded the work a hearty reception, a large section of the press greeted
it with no les cordiality. "No previous editor," said The Standard, "had a tithe of Captain
Burton's acquaintance with the manners and customs of the Moslem East. Apart from the language,
the general tone of the Nights is exceptionally high and pure. The devotional fervour... often
rises to the boiling point of fanaticism, and the pathos is sweet and deep, genuine and tender,
simple and true.... In no other work is Eastern life so vividly pourtrayed. This work, illuminated
with notes so full of learning, should give the nation an opportunity for wiping away that
reproach of neglect which Captain Burton seems to feel more keenly than he cares to express."
The St. James's Gazette called it "One of the most important translations to which a great
English scholar has ever devoted himself."

Then rose a cry "Indecency, indecency! Filth, filth!" It was said, to use an Arabian Nights
expression, that he had hauled up all the dead donkeys in the sea. The principal attack came
from The Edinburgh Review (July 1886). "Mr. Payne's translation," says the writer, "is not
only a fine piece of English, it is also, save where the exigencies of rhyme compelled a degree
of looseness, remarkably literal.... Mr. Payne translates everything, and when a sentence is
objectionable in Arabic, he makes it equally objectionable in English, or, rather, more so,
since to the Arabs a rude freedom of speech is natural, while to us it is not." Then the reviewer
turns to Burton, only, however, to empty out all the vials of his indignation--quite forgetting
that the work was intended only for "curious students of Moslem manners," and not for the general
public, from whom, indeed, its price alone debarred it. [494] He says: "It is bad enough in
the text of the tales to find that Captain Burton is not content with plainly calling a spade
a spade, but will have it styled a dirty shovel; but in his notes he goes far beyond this,
and the varied collection of abominations which he brings forward with such gusto is a disgrace
and a shame to printed literature.... The different versions, however, have each its proper
destination--Galland for the nursery, Lane for the library, Payne for the study and Burton
for the sewers." [495]

Burton's spirited reply will be found in the last volume of his Supplemental Nights. Put compendiously,
his argument is: "I had knowledge of certain subjects such as no other man possessed. Why should
it die with me? Facts are facts, whether men are acquainted with them or not." "But," he says,
"I had another object while making the notes a Repertory of Eastern knowledge in its esoteric
form. Having failed to free the Anthropological Society [496] from the fetters of mauvaise
honte and the mock-modesty which compels travellers and ethnographical students to keep silence
concerning one side of human nature (and that side the most interesting to mankind) I proposed
to supply the want in these pages.... While Pharisee and Philistine may be or may pretend to
be 'shocked' and 'horrified' by my pages, the sound commonsense of a public, which is slowly
but surely emancipating itself from the prudish and prurient reticences and the immodest and
immoral modesties of the early 19th century, will in good time do me, I am convinced, full
and ample justice."

In order to be quite ready, should prosecution ensue, Burton compiled what he called The Black
Book, which consisted of specimens, of, to use his own expression, the "turpiloquium" of the
Bible and Shakespeare. It was never required for its original purpose, but he worked some portions
into the Terminal Essay to The Arabian Nights. [497] And here it may be said that when Burton
attacks the Bible and Christianity he is inconsistent and requires to be defended against himself.
The Bible, as we have seen was one of the three books that he constantly carried about with
him, and few men could have had greater admiration for its more splendid passages. We know,
too, that the sincere Christian had his respect. But his Terminal Essay and these notes appeared
at a moment when the outcry was raised against his Arabian Nights; consequently, when he fires
off with "There is no more immoral work than the Old Testament," the argument must be regarded
as simply one of Tu quoque. The suggestion, for example, that Ezekiel and Hosea are demoralizing
because of certain expressions is too absurd for refutation. The bloodshed of the Bible horrified
him; but he refused to believe that the "enormities" inflicted by the Jews on neighbouring
nations were sanctioned by the Almighty. [499] "The murderous vow of Jephthah," David's inhuman
treatment of the Moabites, and other events of the same category goaded him to fury.

If he attacks Christianity, nevertheless, his diatribe is not against its great Founder, but
against the abuses that crept into the church even in the lifetime of His earliest followers;
and again, not so much against Christianity in general as against Roman Catholicism. Still,
even after making every allowance, his article is mainly a glorification of the crescent at
the expense of the cross.

Chapter XXX. 21st November 1885-5th June 1886 K. C. M. G.

Bibliography:

74. Six Months at Abbazia. 1888. 75. Lady Burton's Edition of the Arabian Nights. 1888.

141. In Morocco, 21st November 1885.

On October 28th the Burtons went down to Hatfield, where there was a large party, but Lord
Salisbury devoted himself chiefly to Burton. After they had discussed the Eastern Question,
Lord Salisbury said to Burton "Now go to your room, where you will be quiet, and draw up a
complete programme for Egypt."

Burton retired, but in two or three minutes returned with a paper which he handed to Lord Salisbury.

"You've soon done it," said his Lordship, and on unfolding the paper he found the single word
"Annex."

"If I were to write for a month," commented Burton, on noticing Lord Salisbury's disappointment,
"I could not say more."

However, being further pressed, he elaborated his very simple programme. [500] The policy he
advocated was a wise and humane one; and had it been instantly adopted, untold trouble for
us and much oppression of the miserable natives would have been avoided. Since then we have
practically followed his recommendations, and the present prosperous state of Egypt is the result.

On 21st November 1885, Burton left England for Tangier, which he reached on the 30th, and early
in January he wrote to the Morning Post a letter on the Home Rule question, which he thought
might be settled by the adoption of a Diet System similar to that which obtained in Austro-Hungary.
On January 15th he wants to know how Mr. Payne's translation of Boccaccio [501] is proceeding
and continues: "I look forward to Vol. i. with lively pleasure. You will be glad to hear that
to-day I finished my translation and to-morrow begin with the Terminal Essay, so that happen
what may subscribers are safe. Tangier is beastly but not bad for work.... It is a place of
absolute rascality, and large fortunes are made by selling European protections--a regular
Augean stable."

Mrs. Burton and Lisa left England at the end of January, and Burton met them at Gibraltar.

142. K.C.M.G., 5th February 1886.

When the first volume of The Arabian Nights appeared Burton was sixty-four. So far his life
had been a long series of disappointments. His labours as an explorer had met with no adequate
recognition, the Damascus Consulship could be remembered only with bitterness, his numerous
books had sold badly. Every stone which for forty years he had rolled up proved to be only
a Sisyphus stone. He was neglected, while every year inferior men--not to be mentioned in the
same breath with him--were advanced to high honours. Small wonder that such treatment should
have soured him or that--a vehement man by nature--he should often have given way to paroxysms
of anger. Still he kept on working. Then all of a sudden the transplendent sun sailed from
its clouds and poured upon him its genial beams. He had at last found the golden Chersonese.
His pockets, so long cobwebbed, now bulged with money. Publishers, who had been coy, now fought
for him. All the world--or nearly all--sang his praises. [502] Lastly came the K.C.M.G., an
honour that was conferred upon him owing in large measure to the noble persistency of the Standard
newspaper, which in season and out of season "recalled to the recollection of those with whom
lay the bestowal of ribbons and crosses the unworthy neglect with which he had been so long
treated."

Lady Burton thus describes the reception of the news. "On the 5th of February 1886, a very
extraordinary thing happened [503]--it was a telegram addressed 'Sir Richard Burton!' He tossed
it over to me and said, 'Some fellow is playing me a practical joke, or else it is not for
me. I shall not open it, so you may as well ring the bell and give it back again.' 'Oh no,'
I said, 'I shall open it if you don't.'"

It was from Lord Salisbury, conveying in the kindest terms that the queen had made him K.C.M.G.
in reward for his services. He looked very serious and quite uncomfortable, and said, "Oh,
I shall not accept it." [504] His wife told him, however, that it ought to be accepted because
it was a certain sign that the Government intended to give him a better appointment. So he
took it as a handsel.

143. Burton at 65.

Having accompanied Sir Richard Burton to the meridian of his fame, we may fitly pause a moment
and ask what manner of a man he was at this moment. Though sixty-five, and subject to gout,
he was still strong and upright. He had still the old duskened features, dark, piercing eyes,
and penthouse brows, but the long and pendulous Chinaman moustaches had shrunk till they scarcely
covered his mouth. The "devil's jaw" could boast only a small tuft of hair. There were wrinkles
in "the angel's forehead." If meddlesome Time had also furrowed his cheeks, nevertheless the
most conspicuous mark there was still the scar of that great gash received in the ding-dong
fight at Berbera. His hair, which should have been grizzled, he kept dark, Oriental fashion,
with dye, and brushed forward. Another curious habit was that of altering his appearance. In
the course of a few months he would have long hair, short hair, big moustache, small moustache,
long beard, short beard, no beard. Everyone marked his curious, feline laugh, "made between
his teeth." The change in the world's treatment of him, and in his circumstances, is noticeable
to his countenance. In photographs taken previous to 1886 his look betrays the man who feels
that he has been treated neglectfully by an ungrateful world for which he had made enormous
sacrifices. Indeed, looking at the matter merely from a pecuniary standpoint, he must have
spent at least £20,000 of his own money in his various explorations. He is at once injured,
rancorous, sullen, dangerous. All these pictures exhibit a scowl. In some the scowl is very
pronounced, and in one he looks not unlike a professional prize-fighter. They betray a mind
jaundiced, but defiant. A restless, fiery soul, his temper, never of the best, had grown daily
more gnarled and perverse. Woe betide the imprudent human who crossed him! What chance had
anybody against a man who had the command of all the forcible words in twenty-eight languages!
His peremptory voice everywhere ensured obedience. To all save his dearest friends he was proud
and haughty. Then came the gold shower. There was actually a plethora of money. The world,
so long irreconcilable, had acknowledged his merits, and the whole man softened. The angelical
character of the forehead gradually spread downwards, and in time tempered even the ferocity
of the terrible jaw. It was the same man, but on better terms with himself and everybody else.
We see him sitting or strolling in his garden with quite a jaunty air--and when there is a
cigar in his mouth, the shadow of which modifies still more the characteristics of that truculent
region, it is hard to believe that we are looking at the same man. He has a youthful vigour,
an autumnal green. In one photograph Lady Burton, devoted as ever to her husband, is seen nestling
at his side and leaning her head against his shoulder. She had grown uncomfortably stout and
her tight-fitting dress was hard put to it to bear the strain. Her glorious hair was now grown
gray and thin, and it was generally hidden by a not very becoming big yellowish wig with curls,
which made her look like a magnified Marie Antoinette.

Burton's chief pleasure in his garden was feeding the birds. They used to wait for him in flocks
on an almond tree, and became "quite imperious in their manners if he did not attend to them
properly." He loved the sparrow especially, for Catullus' sake.

His gigantic personality impressed all who met him. Conversation with him reduced the world
from a sphere to a spherule. It shrank steadily--he had traversed so much of it, and he talked
about out-of-the-way places so familiarly. As of old, when friends stayed with him he never
wanted to go to bed, and they, too, listening to his learned, animated and piquant talk, were
quite content to outwatch the Bear. As an anthropologist his knowledge was truly amazing. "He
was also a first-rate surgeon and had read all the regular books." [505] People called him,
for the vastness of his knowledge, the Encyclopaedia Britannica. He looked to the past and
the future. To the past, for no one was more keenly interested in archaeology. He delighted
to wander on forlorn moors among what Shelley calls "dismal cirques of Druid stones." To the
future, for he continued to study spiritualism, and to gaze into crystals. He longed to make
himself master of the "darkling secrets of Eternity." [506] Both he and Lady Burton were, to
use Milton's expression, "struck with superstition as with a planet." She says: "From Arab
or gipsy he got.... his mysticism, his superstition (I am superstitious enough, God knows,
but he was far more so), his divination." [507] Some of it, however, was derived from his friendship
in early days with the painter-astrologer Varley. If a horse stopped for no ascertained reason
or if a house martin fell they wondered what it portended. They disliked the bodeful chirp
of the bat, the screech of the owl. Even the old superstition that the first object seen in
the morning--a crow, a cripple, &c.--determines the fortunes of the day, had his respect. "At
an hour," he comments, "when the senses are most impressionable the aspect of unpleasant spectacles
has a double effect." [508] He was disturbed by the "drivel of dreams," and if he did not himself
search for the philosopher's stone he knew many men who were so engaged (he tells us there
were a hundred in London alone) and he evidently sympathised with them.

Fear of man was a feeling unknown to him, and he despised it in others. "Of ten men," he used
to say, quoting an Osmanli proverb, "nine are women." Behind his bed hung a map of Africa,
and over that a motto in Arabic which meant:

   "All things pass."

This saying he used to observe, was always a consolation to him.

If he had been eager for money, it was only for what money would buy. He wanted it because
it would enable him to do greater work. "I was often stopped, in my expeditions," he told Dr.
Baker, "for the want of a hundred pounds." He was always writing: in the house, in the desert,
in a storm, up a tree, at dinner, in bed, ill or well, fresh or tired,--indeed, he used to
say that he never was tired. There was nothing histrionic about him, and he never posed, except
"before fools and savages." He was frank, straightforward, and outspoken, and his face was
an index of his mind. Every thought was visible just "as through a crystal case the figured
hours are seen." He was always Burton, never by any chance any one else. As. Mr. A. C. Swinburne
said of him: "He rode life's lists as a god might ride." Of English Literature and especially
of poetry he was an omnivorous reader. He expressed warm admiration for Chaucer, "jolly old
Walter Mapes," Butler's Hudibras, and Byron, especially Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, with its
allusions to his beloved Tasso, Ariosto and Boccaccio. Surely, however, he ought not to have
tried to set us against that tender line of Byron's,

   "They keep his dust in Arqua, where he died," [509]

by pointing out that the accent of Arqua is rightly on the second syllable, and by remarking:
"Why will not poets mind their quantities in lieu of stultifying their lines by childish ignorance."
[510] Then, too, he savagely attacked Tennyson for his "rasher of bacon line"--"the good Haroun
Alraschid," [511] Raschid being properly accented on the last syllable. Of traveller authors,
he preferred "the accurate Burckhardt." He read with delight Boswell's Johnson, Johnson's Journey
to the Western Islands, Renan's Life of Jesus, Gibbon, whom he calls "our great historian"
[512] and the poems of Coleridge. At Cowper he never lost an opportunity of girding, both on
account of his Slave Ballads [513] and the line:

   "God made the country and man made the town." [514]

"Cowper," he comments, "had evidently never seen a region untouched by the human hand." It
goes without saying that he loved "his great namesake," as he calls him, "Robert Burton, of
melancholy and merry, of facete and juvenile memory." Of contemporary work he enjoyed most
the poems of D. G. Rossetti, Mr. Swinburne, Mr. John Payne and FitzGerald's Rubaiyat, and we
find him praising Mr. Edmund Gosse's lyrics. Of novelists Dickens was his favourite. He called
Darwin "our British Aristotle." Eothen [515] was "that book of books." He never forgave Carlyle
for denouncing The Arabian Nights as "downright lies" and "unwholesome literature;" Miss Martineau,
as an old maid, was, of course, also out of court. If she had written Shakespeare, it would
have been all the same. He enjoyed a pen and ink fight, even as in those old Richmond School
days he had delighted in fisticuffs. "Peace and quiet are not in my way." And as long as he
got his adversary down he was still not very particular what method he employed.

Unlike so many of his fellow-countrymen, he was a lover or art, and had visited all the galleries
in Europe. "If anyone," he used to say, "thinks the English have the artistic eye, let him
stand in the noblest site in Europe, Trafalgar Square, and look around." On another occasion
he described the square as "the nation's last phase of artistic bathos." The facade of the
National Gallery was his continual butt.

A fine handwriting, he said, bespoke the man of audacity and determination; and his own might
have been done with a pin. Then he used to split his words as if they were Arabic; writing,
for example, "con tradict" for contradict. When young ladies teased him to put something in
their albums he generally wrote:

   "Shawir hunna wa khalif hunna,"

which may be translated:

   "Ask their advice, ye men of wit
    And always do the opposite."

Another of his favourite sayings against women was the Persian couplet:

   "Agar nek budi zan u Ray-i-Zan
    Zan-ra Ma-zan nam budi, na Zan," [516]

which may be rendered:

   "If good were in woman, of course it were meeter
    To say when we think of her, Beat not, not Beat her."

Zan meaning "woman" and also "beat," and ma-zan "beat not."

There was in Burton, as in most great men, a touch of the Don Quixote, derived, no doubt, in
his case, from his father. He was generous and magnanimous, and all who knew him personally
spoke of him with affection. He was oftenest referred to as "a dear chap." Arbuthnot regarded
him as a paladin, with no faults whatever. When younger he had, as we have noticed, never undervalued
a good dinner, but as he advanced in years, everything--food, sleep, exercise--had to give
way before work.

144. More Anecdotes.

For silver he had a conspicuous weakness. "Every person," he used to say, "has some metal that
influences him, and mine is silver." He would have every possible article about him of that
metal--walking-stick knobs, standishes, modern cups, ancient goblets--all of gleamy silver.
Had he been able to build an Aladdin's palace it would have been all of silver. He even regarded
it as a prophylactic against certain diseases. If his eyes got tired through reading he would
lie on his back with a florin over each. When the gout troubled him, silver coins had to be
bound to his feet; and the household must have been very thankful for this supposed panacea,
for when in pain, Burton, never a placid creature, had tremendous outbursts of anger. One of
these scenes, which occurred at an hotel, is thus described by a witness. "The dinner had been
ordered at six. At half-past the hour it was not ready. The waiter was summoned. He made excuse.
"Mille tonnerres! Ventrebleu!" roared Burton with a volley of unutterable language which he
only could translate. The waiter literally flew before the storm, looking back at the witness
with "Mais, mon Dieu, l'Anglais!" The dinner quickly arrived, and with the soup, Burton recovered
his equanimity, though inveighing against all waiters, and the Triestine in particular." [517]

Another anecdote of this period reveals Burton doing a little smuggling. One day, we are told,
Lady Burton invited the consular chaplain to accompany her to the quay. Stopping her cab just
in front of the Custom House, she induced her companion to talk to the Custom house officer
while she herself went on board a vessel to see about a case of wine for her husband. Presently
a porter came with the case and some loose bottles, the later being placed by the chaplain's
orders in the bottom of the carriage. No sooner had this been done than Lady Burton followed,
and stepping into the cab bade the coachman drive off. Up to this moment the chaplain had kept
watch, smoking a cigar, at the window of the carriage. The officer seeing a case being placed
in the carriage was about to make inquiry just as the coachman whipped up the horse. Lady Burton
smilingly saluted the officer from the window and thus allayed his suspicions. He returned
her nod with a military salute, and was soon invisible. The speed, however, was too much for
the loose bottles, and the duty was paid in kind, as the wine flowed freely at the bottom of
the cab, while Burton pretended to rate his wife for exposing him to the charge of smuggling
and damaging the reputation of the chaplain. [518]

At Trieste Burton was always popular. The people appreciated his genius and sympathised with
his grievances, and he could truly say of them in the words of his prototype, Ovid:

   "They wish, good souls, to keep me, yet I know
    They wish me gone, because I want to go." [519]

Not that he pleased everyone. Far from it, and hereby hangs a delectable anecdote. Some Englishman
at Trieste, who took umbrage on account of the colossal muddle Burton made with his accounts
and the frequency of his absence, wrote to the Foreign Office something to this effect. "As
Sir Richard Burton is nearly always away from his post and the Vice-Consul has to do the greater
portion of the work, why on earth don't you get rid of Sir Richard and let the Vice-Consul
take his place? I wonder the Foreign Office can put up with him at all."

To which came the following graceful reply. "Dear Sir,--We look upon the consulship of Trieste
as a gift to Sir Richard Burton for his services to the nation, and we must decline to interfere
with him in any way." [520]

Chapter XXXI. Burton's Religion

145. Burton's Religion.

As regards religion, Burton had in early life, as we have seen, leaned to Sufism; and this
faith influenced him to the end. For a little while he coquetted with Roman Catholicism; but
the journey to Mecca practically turned him into a Mohammedan. At the time of his marriage
he called himself an agnostic, and, as we have seen, he was always something of a spiritualist.
Lady Burton, charmingly mixing her metaphors, [521] says "he examined every religion, and picked
out its pear to practise it." The state of his mind in 1880 is revealed by his Kasidah. From
that time to his death he was half Mohammedan and half Agnostic. His wife pressed him in season
and out of season to become a Catholic, and, as we shall see, he did at last so far succumb
to her importunities as to sign a paper in which, to use Lady Burton's expression, "he abjured
the Protestant heresy," and put himself in line with the Catholics. [522] But, as his opinions
do not seem to have changed one iota, this "profession of faith" could have had little actual
value. He listened to the prayers that his wife said with him every night, and he distinctly
approved of religion in other persons. Thus, he praised the Princess of Wales [523] for hearing
her children say their "little prayers," [524] every night at her knee, and he is credited
with the remark: "A man without religion may be excused, but a woman without religion is unthinkable."
Priests, ceremonials, services, all seemed to him only tinkling cymbals. He was always girding
at "scapularies and other sacred things." He delighted to compare Romanism unfavourably with
Mohammedanism. Thus he would say sarcastically, "Moslems, like Catholics, pray for the dead;
but as they do the praying themselves instead of paying a priest to do it, their prayers, of
course, are of no avail." He also objected to the Church of Rome because, to use his own words,
"it has added a fourth person to the Trinity." [525] He said he found "four great Protestant
Sommites: (1) St. Paul, who protested against St. Peter's Hebraism; (2) Mohammed, who protested
against the perversions of Christianity; (3) Luthur, who protested against the rule of the
Pope; (4) Sir Richard Burton, who protested against the whole business." The way in which he
used to ridicule the Papal religion in his wife's presence often jarred on his friends, who
thought that however much he might disapprove of it, he ought, for her sake, to have restrained
his tongue. But he did not spare other religious bodies either. He wanted to know, for instance,
what the clergy of the Church of England did for the £3,500,000 a year "wasted on them," while
he summed up the Nonconformists in the scornful phrase: "Exeter Hall!" He considered anthropomorphism
to explain satisfactorily not only the swan maiden, and the other feathered ladies [526] of
the Nights, but also angel and devil. Both Arbuthnot and Payne regarded him as a Mohammedan.
Another friend described him as a "combination of an Agnostic, a Theist and an Oriental mystic."
Over and over again he said to his cousin, St. George Burton, "The only real religion in the
world is that of Mohammed. Religions are climatic. The Protestant faith suits England." Once
he said "I should not care to go to Hell, for I should meet all my relations there, nor to
Heaven, because I should have to avoid so many friends." Lady Burton, who prayed daily "that
the windows of her husband's soul might be opened," relied particularly on the mediation of
"Our Lady of Dale"--the Dale referred to being a village near Ilkestone, Derbyshire, which
once boasted a magnificent Premonstratensian monastery, [527] and she paid for as many as a
hundred masses to be said consecutively in the little "Church of Our Lady and St. Thomas,"
[528] at Ilkeston, in order to hasten that event. "Some three months before Sir Richard's death,"
writes Mr. P. P. Cautley, the Vice-Consul at Trieste, to me, "I was seated at Sir Richard's
tea table with our clergy man, and the talk turning on religion, Sir Richard declared, 'I am
an atheist, but I was brought up in the Church of England, and that is officially my church.'
[529] Perhaps, however, this should be considered to prove, not that he was an atheist, but
that he could not resist the pleasure of shocking the clergyman."

146. Burton as a Writer.

On Burton as a writer we have already made some comments. One goes to his books with confidence;
in the assurance that whatever ever he saw is put down. Nothing is hidden and there is no attempt
to Munchausenize. His besetting literary sin, as we said, was prolixity. Any one of his books
reduced to one-quarter, or better, one-sixth the size, and served up artistically would have
made a delightful work. As it is, they are vast storehouses filled with undusted objects of
interest and value, mingled with heaps of mere lumber. His books laid one on the top of another
would make a pile eight feet high!

He is at his best when describing some daring adventure, when making a confession of his own
weaknesses, or in depicting scenery. Lieutenant Cameron's tribute to his descriptive powers
must not be passed by. "Going over ground which he explored," says Cameron, "with his Lake
Regions of Central Africa in my hand, I was astonished at the acuteness of his perception and
the correctness of his descriptions." Stanley spoke of his books in a similar strain.

Burton owed his success as a narrator in great measure to his habit of transferring impressions
to paper the moment he received them--a habit to which he was led by reading a passage of Dr.
Johnson's Journey to the Western Islands. [530] "Brave words," comments Burton, "somewhat pompous
and diffused, yet worthy to be written in letters of gold." [531] Very many of Burton's books,
pamphlets and articles in the journals of the learned societies appeal solely to archaeologists,
as, for example Etruscan Bologna, [532] an account of the Etrurian people, their sharp bottomed
wells, the pebble tombs of the poor and the elegant mausoleums of the wealthy with their figures
of musicians and dancing girls "in garments of the most graceful form, finest texture and brilliant
hues;" reminding us of the days when Veii fell, and its goddess, who "was light and easily
removed, as though she followed willingly," as Livy, with his tongue in his cheek, says, was
conveyed to Rome; and of the later days when "Lars Porsena of Clusium" poured southward his
serried host, only, according to the Roman historians, to meet with defeat and discomfiture.

Of Burton's carelessness and inaccuracies, we have already spoken. We mentioned that to his
dying day he was under a wrong impression as to his birthplace, and that his account of his
early years and his family bristles with errors. Scores of his letters have passed through
my hands and nearly all are imperfectly dated. Fortunately, however, the envelopes have in
almost every case been preserved; so the postmark, when legible, has filled the lacuna. At
every turn in his life we are reminded of his inexactitude--especially in autobiographical
details. And yet, too, like most inexact men, he was a rare stickler for certain niceties.
He would have defended the "h" in Meccah with his sword; and the man who spelt "Gypsy" with
an "i" for ever forfeited his respect.

Burton's works--just as was his own mind--are vast, encyclopaedic, romantic and yet prosaic,
unsystematic; but that is only repeating the line of the old Greek poet:

   "Like our own selves our work must ever be." [533]

Chapter XXXII. 5th June 1886-15th April 1888, Burton and Social Questions: Anecdotes

147. The Population Question.

In social questions Burton took a keen interest. Indeed he was in many respects a man far in
advance of his age. In denouncing various evils he betrays the earnestness of a Carlyle, and
when propounding plans for the abolition of the Slave Trade in "that Devil's Walk and Purlieu,"
East Africa, Saul becomes one of the prophets. That he was no saint we should have known if
he himself had not told us; but he had, as he believed, his special work to do in the world
and he did it with all his might. Though a whirlwind of a man, he had, as we have seen, the
tenderest of hearts, he thought with sorrow of the sufferings of the poor, and he often said
to his wife: "When I get my pension we'll spend the rest of our lives in helping the submerged
tenth." Although sympathising warmly with the efforts of General Booth and other men who were
trying to grapple with social evils, he could see, nevertheless, that they touched only the
fringe of the difficulty. He was, broadly speaking, what is now known as a Neo-Mathusian, that
is to say, he held that no man had a right to bring into the world a larger number of children
than he could support with comfort, that the poor ought to be advised to limit their families,
and that persons suffering from certain terrible diseases ought not to be allowed to marry,
or at any rate to have children.

Himself a man of splendid physique, Burton wanted to see every man in England physically healthy
and strong. He considered it abominable that infant monstrosities or children born blind should
be allowed to live, and held that showmen and others who exhibit monstrosities should be promptly
jailed. "Indeed," he says, "it is a question if civilisation may not be compelled to revive
the law of Lycurgus, which forbade a child, male or female, to be brought up without the approbation
of public officers appointed ad hoc. One of the curses of the 19th century is the increased
skill of the midwife and the physician, who are now able to preserve worthless lives and to
bring up semi-abortions whose only effect upon the breed is increased degeneracy." [534] He
thought with Edward FitzGerald and many another sympathiser with the poor, that it is the height
of folly for a labouring man living in a cottage with only two small bedrooms and earning twelve
shillings a week to burden himself with a family of from ten to a dozen. Three or four children
he considered enough for anybody. At the same time he perceived that the Neo-Malthusian system
might be abused--that is to say, rich persons who could well afford to bring up respectable-sized
families might be tempted to restrict the number to one or two. [535] Consequently, in the
Terminal Essay to the Arabian Nights, we find him recommending the study of an Arabic work,
Kitab al Bah not only to the anthropologist but also to the million. He says, "The conscientious
study would be useful to humanity by teaching the use and unteaching the abuse of the Malthusian
system, [536] whereby the family is duly limited to the necessities of society." At the present
time--with the diminishing birth-rate and when the subject is discussed freely in every upper
and middle class home in England--these ideas cause no wonderment; but in those days they were
novel.

148. New Projects.

We left the Burtons, it will be remembered, at Gibraltar. After a short stay there, they crossed
over to Morocco in a cattle tug. Neither of them liked Tangiers, still, if the Consulate had
been conferred upon Sir Richard, it would have given them great happiness. They were, however,
doomed to disappointment. Lord Salisbury's short-lived administration of 1886 had been succeeded
by a Liberal Government with Lord Rosebery as Premier; and Tangiers was given to Mr. (afterwards
Sir) W. Kirby Green. [537] The Burtons were back in Trieste at the end of March.

The success of The Arabian Nights, which was owing entirely to its anthropological and pornographic
notes, was for Sir Richard Burton both good and bad. It was good because it removed for the
remainder of his life all pecuniary anxieties; it was bad because it led him to devote himself
exclusively to subjects which certainly should not occupy exclusively the attention of any
man. Henceforth every translation was to be annotated from a certain point of view. [538] One
can but regret this perversity, for the old Roman and other authors have unpleasantnesses enough
without accentuating them. Thus in reading some sweet poem of Catullus, spoilt by perhaps a
single objectionable line, we do not want our attention drawn particularly to the blemish.
Unfortunately, Sir Richard now made this kind of work his speciality, and it would be idle--or
rather it would be untrue--to deny that he now chose certain books for translation, not on
account of their beautiful poetry and noble thoughts, but because they lent themselves to pungent
annotation. Indeed, his passion for this sort of literature had become a monomania. [539] He
insisted, however, and he certainly believed, that he was advancing the interests of science;
nor could any argument turn him. We wish we could say that it was chiefly for their beauties
that he now set himself to translate Catullus, Ausonius, [540] and Apuleius. He did appreciate
their beauties; the poets and the classic prose writers were to him as the milk of paradise;
and some of his annotations would have illuminated the best passages, but the majority of them
were avowedly to be consecrate to the worst. Having in The Arabian Nights given the world the
fruits of his enquiries in Eastern lands, and said his say, he might with advantage have let
the subject rest. He had certainly nothing new to tell us about the manners and customs of
the Romans. Then again, for the translating of so delicate, so musical and so gracious a poet
as Catullus he was absolutely and entirely unqualified. However, to Catullus he now turned.
Sirmio and Rome succeeded to Baghdad and Damascus; jinni and ghoul fled before hoofed satyrs
and old Silenus shaking his green stick of lilies. As we shall see, however, he did not begin
the translation in earnest till January 1890. [541]

149. Mr. A. G. Ellis and Professor Blumhardt. 5th June 1886-5th April 1887.

On June 5th the Burtons and their "Magpie Trunk" again left Trieste and travelled via Innsbruck,
Zurich, Bale and Boulogne to England. After a short stay at Folkestone with Lady Stisted and
her daughter, they went on to London, whence Burton memorialized the vice-chancellor and the
curators of the Bodleian Library for the loan of the Wortley Montagu manuscripts of the Arabian
Nights. Not a private loan, but a temporary transference to the India Office under the charge
of Dr. R. Rost. On November 1st came a refusal, and Burton, at great inconvenience to himself,
had to go to Oxford. "The Bodleian," he says, "is the model of what a reading library should
not be, and the contrast of its treasures with their mean and miserable surroundings is a scandal."
He did not know in which he suffered most, the Bodleian, the Radcliffe or the Rotunda. Finally,
however, the difficulty was got over by having the required pages photographed.

He now wrote to the Government and begged to be allowed, at the age of sixty-six, to retire
on full pension. His great services to the country and to learning were set down, but though
fifty persons of importance in the political and literary world supported the application,
it was refused. It is, however, only just to the Government to say that henceforward Burton
was allowed "leave" whenever he wanted it. An easier post than that at Trieste it would have
been impossible to imagine, still, he was in a measure tied, and the Government missed an opportunity
of doing a graceful act to one of its most distinguished servants, and to one of the most brilliant
of Englishmen.

Then followed a holiday in Scotland, where the Burtons were the guests of Mr. (now Sir) Alexander
Baird of Urie. Back in London, they lunched at different times with F. F. Arbuthnot, G. A.
Sala, A. C. Swinburne, and "dear old Larkin"--now 85--in whose house at Alexandria, Burton
had stayed just before his Mecca journey. It was apparently during this visit that Burton gave
to his cousin St. George Burton a seal showing on one side the Burton crest, on another the
Burton Arms, and on the third a man's face and a hand with thumb to the nose and fingers spread
out. "Use it," said Burton, "when you write to a d-----d snob." And he conveyed the belief
that it would be used pretty often.

On 16th September 1886, writing to Mr. Kirby [542] from "United Service Club," Pall Mall, Burton
says, "We here have been enjoying splendid weather, and a really fine day in England (I have
seen only two since May) is worth a week anywhere else.... You will find your volumes [543]
sent to you regularly. No. 1 caused big sensation. A wonderful leader about it in Standard
(Mrs. Gamp, of all people!) followed by abuse in Pall Mall. I have come upon a young woman
friend greedily reading it in open drawing-room, and when I warned another against it, she
answered: 'Very well, Billy [her husband] has a copy, and I shall read it at once.'"

Later Burton's curiosity was aroused by the news that Mr. A. G. Ellis, of the British Museum,
had shown Mr. Kirby an edition of Alaeddin in Malay. [544] "Let me know," he says, "when you
go to see Mr. Ellis. I especially want to accompany you, and must get that Malay version of
Alaeddin. Lord Stanley of Alderley could translate it."

It was about this time that Burton decided to make a new and lavishly annotated translation
of The Scented Garden. To the Kama Shastra edition of 1886 we have already referred, and we
shall deal fully with the whole subject in a later chapter.

On October 6th the Burtons heard Mr. Heron Allen lecture on palmistry at Hampstead. For some
weeks Burton was prostrated again by his old enemy, the gout, but Lord Stanley of Alderley,
F. F. Arbuthnot, and other friends went and sat with him, so the illness had its compensations.
A visit to Mr. John Payne, made, as usual, at tea time, is next recorded, and there was to
have been another visit, but Burton, who was anxious to get to Folkestone to see his sister,
had to omit it.

On January 10th 1887, he writes to Mr. Payne as follows:

"That last cup of tea came to grief, I ran away from London abruptly, feeling a hippishness
gradually creep over my brain; longing to see a sight of the sun and so forth. We shall cross
over next Thursday (if the weather prove decent) and rush up to Paris, where I shall have some
few days' work in the Bibliotheque Nationale. Thence to Cannes, the Riviera, &c. At the end
of my 5th Vol. (Supplemental) I shall walk in to Edin[burgh] Review. [545] ... I hope you like
Vol. x. and its notices of your work. I always speak of it in the same terms, always with the
same appreciation and admiration."

On January 13th 1887, the Burtons reached Paris, where Sir Richard had the pleasure of meeting
Herr Zotenberg, discoverer of the Arabic originals of Alaeddin and Zayn al Asnam; and thence
they proceeded to Cannes, where the state of Burton's health gave his wife great uneasiness.
She says, "I saw him dripping his pen anywhere except into the ink. When he tried to say something
he did not find his words." An awful fit of "epileptiform convulsions," the result of suppressed
gout, followed, and the local doctors who were called in came to the conclusion that Burton
could not recover. They thought it better, however, that their opinion should be conveyed to
him by a perfect stranger, so they deputed Dr. Grenfell Baker, a young man who was then staying
at Cannes, to perform the painful duty.

Dr. Baker entered the sick room and broke the news to Burton as best he could.

"Then you suppose I am going to die?" said Burton.

"The medical men who have been holding a consultation are of that opinion."

Shrugging his shoulders, Burton said, "Ah, well!--sit down," and then he told Dr. Baker a story
out of The Arabian Nights. Dr. Baker remained a fortnight, and then Sir Richard, who decided
to have a travelling medical attendant, sent to England for Dr. Ralph Leslie, who a little
later joined him at Trieste.

To his circle of friends Burton now added Mr. A. G. Ellis, already referred to, Professor James
F. Blumhardt, of the British Museum, and Professor Cecil Bendall, of University College, London.
[546] His first communication with Mr. Ellis seems to have been a post-card dated Trieste,
8th May 1887. He says "The Perfumed Garden is not yet out nor will it be for six months. My
old version is to be had at ---'s, Coventry Street, Haymarket. The Supplemental Nights you
can procure from the agent, -----, Farleigh Road, Stoke Newington."

As we have seen, Burton's first and second supplemental volumes of the Nights correspond with
Mr. Payne's three volumes of Tales from the Arabic. He also wished to include the eight famous
Galland Tales:--"Zayn Al-Asnam," "Alaeddin," "Khudadad and his Brothers," "The Kaliph's Night
Adventure," "Ali Baba," "Ali Khwajah and the Merchant of Baghdad," "Prince Ahmad and the Fairy
Peri-Banu," and "The Two Sisters who Envied their Cadette;" but the only Oriental text he could
find was a Hindustani version of Galland's tales "Orientalised and divested of their inordinate
Gallicism." As Burton was at this time prostrated by illness, Professor Blumhardt kindly undertook
"to English the Hindustani for him. While the volume was going forward, however, M. Zotenberg,
of Paris, discovered a MS. copy of The Nights containing the Arabic originals of 'Zayn Al-Asnam'
and 'Alaeddin,' and Burton, thanks to the courtesy of Zotenberg, was able to make use of it."

150. Dr. Leslie and Dr. Baker: Anecdotes. April 1887.

From June 19th to 22nd there were rejoicings at Trieste on account of Queen Victoria's Jubilee.
At the banquet, which took place at the Jager, Sir Richard occupied the chair, and he and the
Rev. C. F. Thorndike, the chaplain, made speeches. During the summer Sir Richard's health continued
to cause grave anxiety, but he was well enough by July 15th to set out for the usual summer
holiday. Accompanied by Lady Burton, Dr. Leslie and Lisa, he first visited Adelsburg, and then
Sauerbrunn, where he got relief by drinking daily a cup of very hot water. In a letter to Mr.
Ellis written from Sauerbrunn, 14th September 1887, Burton refers to Professor Blumhardt's
contribution to his Supplementary Nights, and finishes: "Salute for me Mr. Bendall and tell
him how happy I shall be to see him at Trieste if he pass through that very foul part."

After the Burtons' return to Trieste (at the end of September) Dr. Leslie obtained another
post, and Dr. Baker was invited to take his place.

Dr. Baker consented to do so, only on the condition that Sir Richard would not dispute his
medical orders. This, Dr. Baker explained to me, was a very necessary stipulation, for Sir
Richard now looked upon the time spent over his meals as so many half-hours wasted. He never
ate his food properly, but used to raven it up like an animal in order to get back quickly
to his books. So a treaty was made, and Dr. Baker remained a member of the household the rest
of Burton's life.

To this period belong the following unpublished anecdotes. Of Burton's interest in Ancient
Etruria and especially in the archaeological discoveries at Bologna [547] we have already spoken.
Once when he and Dr. Baker were visiting Bologna they took a long walk outside the town and
quite lost their bearings. Noticing a working man seated on the roadside, Burton asked him
in French the way back. In reply the man "only made a stupid noise in his throat." Burton next
tried him with the Bolognese [548] dialect, upon which the man blurted out, "Je don't know
savez." Sir Richard then spoke in English, and the man finding there was no further necessity
for Parisian, explained in his own tongue that he was an English sailor who had somehow got
stranded in that part.

To Burton's delight in shocking people we have already alluded. Nor did age sober him. He would
tell to open-mouthed hearers stories of his hair-breadth escapes, and how some native plotted
against his life. "Another moment," he would say, "and I should have been a dead man, but I
was too quick for my gentleman. I turned round with my sword and sliced him up like a lemon."
Dr. Baker, who had heard many tales about the Austrians and duelling, was exercised in his
mind as to what ought to be done if he were "called out." "Now," said Burton, "this is one
of the things in life worthy of remembrance. Never attack a man, but if he attacks you, kill
him." Sometimes the crusted tale about the Arab murder would come up again. "Is it true, Sir
Richard," a young curate once innocently inquired, "that you shot a man near Mecca?" "Sir,"
replied Burton, tossing his head haughtily, "I'm proud to say that I have committed every sin
in the Decalogue."

In after years Dr. Baker was often asked for reminiscences of Burton. "Can you remember any
of his sayings?" enquired one interlocutor. "Yes," replied Dr. Baker. "He once said, 'Priests,
politicians and publishers will find the gate of Heaven extremely narrow.'" "I'm sorry for
that," followed the interlocutor, "for I've just been elected M.P. for the ---- Division of
Yorkshire."

For Mrs. Lynn Linton, the novelist, whom he described as a "sweet, womanly woman," Burton had
a sincere regard, but he used to say that though she was an angel in the drawing-room, she
was a raging, blood-thirsty tigress on the platform. One day, while Sir Richard, Mrs. Linton
and Dr. Baker were chatting together, a lady to whom Mrs. Linton was a stranger joined the
group and said "Sir Richard, why don't you leave off writing those heavy books on Bologna and
other archaeological subjects, and do something lighter? Couldn't you write some trash--novels,
I mean?" Sir Richard look sideways at Mrs. Linton, and kept his countenance as well as he could.
On another occasion when Sir Richard, Lady Burton, Dr. Baker and an aged Cambridge Professor
were chatting together, Burton unconsciously glided into Latin--in which he asked the professor
a question. The old man began a laboured reply in the same language--and then, stopping suddenly,
said, "If you don't mind, Sir Richard, we'll continue the conversation in English."

Believing that Burton was overworking himself, Dr. Baker recommended him to order "a little
rubbish in the shape of novels," from London, and so rest his brain for an hour just before
bedtime. Burton demurred, but the novels were ultimately sent for, they duly arrived, and Burton
went through a course of "chou-chou," as he called it. After a while, however, he gave up what
he had never taken to kindly, and henceforward he nightly "rested his brain," by reading books
in the modern Greek dialects.

151. Three Months at Abbazia. 1st Dec. 1887-5th March 1888.

On the 1st of December 1887, in order to avoid the fearful boras of Trieste, and to shelter
in the supposed mild climate of "the Austrian Riviera," Burton, accompanied, as always, by
his wife, Dr. Baker, and Lisa, went to stay at Abbazia. The subscriptions for his Supplemental
Nights were now pouring in, and they put him in great jollity. Jingling his money in his pockets,
he said to Dr. Baker, "I've always been poor, and now we'll enjoy ourselves." Henceforth he
spent his money like a dissipated school-boy at a statute fair. Special trains, the best rooms
in the best hotels, anything, everything he fancied--and yet all the while he worked at his
books "like a navvy." Abbazia was a disappointment. Snow fell for two months on end, and all
that time they were mewed up in their hotel. Burton found the society agreeable, however, and
he read German with the Catholic priest. Most of his time was spent in finishing the Supplemental
Nights, and Lady Burton was busy preparing for the press and expurgated edition of her husband's
work which, it was hoped, would take its place on the drawing-room table. Mr. Justin Huntly
McCarthy, son of the novelist, gave her considerably assistance, and the work appeared in 1888.
Mr. Kirby's notes were to have been appended to Lady Burton's edition of the Nights as well
as to Sir Richard's, but ultimately the idea was abandoned. "My wife and I agreed," writes
Burton, "that the whole of your notes would be far too learned for her public," [549] so only
a portion was used. Lady Burton's work consisted of six volumes corresponding with Burton's
first ten, from which 215 pages were omitted.

Owing to the stagnation of Abbazia, and the martyrdom which he endured from the gout, Burton
was very glad to get back to Trieste, which was reached on March 5th. When his pain was acute
he could not refrain from groaning, and at such times, Lady Burton, kneeling by his bedside,
use to say "Offer it up, offer it up"--meaning that prayer alone would bring relief.

To Mr. Payne, 14th March 1888, Burton writes, "I have been moving since yours of March 5th
reached me, and unable to answer you.... Delighted to hear that in spite of cramp, [550] Vo.
V. [551] is finished, and shall look forward to the secret [552] being revealed. You are quite
right never to say a word about it. There is nothing I abhor so much as a man intrusting me
with a secret."

On March 19th, Sir Richard finished his last volume of the Supplemental Nights, and in May
he was visited at Trieste by his old friend, F. F. Arbuthnot.

On the 15th of April (1888) occurred the death of Matthew Arnold, who had for some years enjoyed
a Civil List pension of £250 a year; and the event had scarcely been announced before Lady
Burton, without consulting her husband, [553] telegraphed to the Government to "give Burton
Arnold's pension." This step, characteristic as it was indiscreet, naturally did not effect
its purpose.

Chapter XXXIII.

Bibliography:

76. 1st Vol. Supplemental Nights, 1st December 1886. 6th Vol. 1st August 1888.

152. Meeting with Mr. Swinburne and others, 18th July 1888-15th October 1888.

Burton's health continuing weak, he again endeavoured to induce the Government to release him
from his duties. Instead of that, they gave him what he calls "an informal sick certificate,"
and from the following letter to his sister (26th May 1888) we may judge that it was not given
gracefully.

"Yesterday," he says, "I got my leave accompanied by some disagreeable expressions which will
be of use to me when retiring. We leave Trieste in June and travel leisurely over the St. Gothard
and expect to be in England about the 10th.... The meteorologists declare that the heat is
going to equal the cold. Folky [554] folk are like their neighbours, poor devils who howl for
excitement--want of anything better to do. The dreadful dull life of England accounts for many
British madnesses. Do you think of the Crystal Palace this year? We have an old friend, Aird,
formerly the Consul here, who has taken up his abode somewhere in Sydenham. I don't want cold
water bandages, the prospect of leave makes me sleep quite well. With love and kisses to both,
[555] Your affectionate brother, R. F. B."

Burton and his wife reached Folkestone on July 18th. Next day they went on to London, where
they had the pleasure of meeting again Commander Cameron, Mr. Henry Irving, M. Du Chaillu,
Mr. A. C. Swinburne, and Mr. Theodore Watts[-Dunton]. What Burton was to Mr. Swinburne is summed
up in the phrase--"the light that on earth was he." [556]

153. H. W. Ashbee.

His principal place of resort, however, during this visit was the house of Mr. H. W. Ashbee,
54, Bedford Square, where he met not only Mr. Ashbee, but also Dr. Steingass, Mr. Arbuthnot,
Sir Charles Wingfield and Mr. John Payne, all of whom were interested, in different ways, in
matters Oriental. Ashbee, who wrote under the name of Pisanus Fraxi (Bee of an ash), was a
curiously matter-of-fact, stoutish, stolid, affable man, with a Maupassantian taste for low
life, its humours and laxities. He was familiar with it everywhere, from the sordid purlieus
of Whitechapel to the bazaars of Tunis and Algiers, and related Haroun Al-Raschid-like adventures
with imperturbably, impassive face, and in the language that a business man uses when recounting
the common transactions of a day. This unconcernedness never failed to provoke laughter, even
from those who administered rebukes to him. Of art and literature he had absolutely no idea,
but he was an enthusiastic bibliophile, and his library, which included a unique collection
or rare and curious books, had been built up at enormous expense. Somebody having described
him as "not a bad old chap," Mr. Payne added characteristically, "And he had a favourite cat,
which says something for him."

154. A Bacon Causerie.

The serenity of these gatherings, whether at Mr. Ashbee's or at Mr. Arbuthnot's, was never
ruffled unless somebody happened to introduce politics or the Shakespere-Bacon Question. Arbuthnot
the Liberal was content to strike out with his back against the wall, so to speak, when attacked
by the Conservative Burton, Ashbee and Payne; but Arbuthnot the Baconian frequently took the
offensive. He would go out of his way in order to drag in this subject. He could not leave
it out of his Life of Balzac even. These controversies generally resolved themselves into a
duel between Mr. Arbuthnot and Mr. Payne--Burton, who loved a fight between any persons and
for any reasons, looking on approvingly. Mr. Ashbee and Dr. Steingass were inclined to side
with Mr. Payne. On one of these occasions Mr. Payne said impatiently that he could not understand
"any sensible man taking the slightest interest in the sickening controversy," and then he
pointed out one by one the elements that in his opinion made the Baconian theory ridiculous.

"But," followed Mr. Arbuthnot, "Shakespere had no education, and no person without an extremely
good education could have written the play erroneously published under the name of William
Shakespere."

"If," retorted Mr. Payne, "Shakespere had been without education, do you think the fact would
have escaped the notice of such bitter and unscrupulous enemies as Nash, Greene, and others,
who hated him for his towering superiority?"

