Early in 1260, Montfort went back to England and made common cause with Edward. Despite the
king's order that no parliament should be held during his absence abroad, Montfort insisted
that the Easter parliament should meet as usual at London. The discussions were hot. Montfort
demanded the expulsion of Peter of Savoy from the council, and Edward and Gloucester almost
came to blows. The Londoners closed their gates on both parties, but the mediation of the King
of the Romans prevented a collision. Henry hurried home, convinced that Edward was conspiring
against him. The king threw himself into the city of London, and with Gloucester's help collected
an army. Meanwhile Montfort and Edward, with their armed followers, were lodged at Clerkenwell,
ready for war. Again the situation became extremely critical, and again King Richard proved
the best peacemaker. Henry held out against his son for a fortnight, but such estrangement
was hard for him to endure. "Do not let my son appear before me," he cried, "for if I see him,
I shall not be able to refrain from kissing him." A reconciliation was speedily effected, and
nothing remained of the short-lived alliance of Edward with Montfort save that his feud with
Gloucester continued until the earl's death.

The dissensions among the barons encouraged Henry to shake off the tutelage of the fifteen.
As soon as he was reconciled with his son, he charged Leicester with treason.[1] "But, thanks
be to God, the earl answered to all these points with such force that the king could do nothing
against him." Unable to break down his enemy by direct attack, Henry followed one of the worst
precedents of his father's reign by beseeching Alexander IV. to relieve him of his oath to
observe the Provisions. On April 13, 1261, a bull was issued annulling the whole of the legislation
of 1258 and 1259, and freeing the king from his sworn promise.

    [1] Bémont, Simon de Montfort, Appendix xxxvii., pp. 343-53.

William of Valence was already back in England, and restored to his old dignities. His return
was the easier because his brother, Aymer, the most hated of the Poitevins, had died soon after
his consecration to Winchester. On June 14, 1261, the papal bull was read before the assembled
parliament at Winchester. There Henry removed the baronial ministers and replaced them by his
own friends. Chief among the sufferers was Hugh Despenser, who had succeeded Hugh Bigod as
justiciar; and Bigod himself was expelled from the custody of Dover Castle. In the summer Henry
issued a proclamation, declaring that the right of choosing his council and garrisoning his
castles was among the inalienable attributes of the crown. England was little inclined to rebel,
for the return of prosperity and good harvests made men more contented.

The repudiation of the Provisions restored unity to the baronage. The defections had been serious,
and it was said that only five of the twenty-four still adhered to the opposition. But the
crisis forced Leicester and Gloucester to forget their recent feuds, and co-operate once more
against the king. They saw that their salvation from Henry's growing strength lay in appealing
to a wider public than that which they had hitherto addressed. Still posing as the heads of
the government established by the Provisions, they summoned three knights from each shire to
attend an assembly at St. Alban's. This appeal to the landed gentry alarmed the king so much
that he issued counter-writs to the sheriffs ordering them to send the knights, not to the
baronial camp at St. Alban's, but to his own court at Windsor. Neither party was as yet prepared
for battle. The death of Alexander IV, soon after the publication of his bull tied the hands
of the king. At the same time the renewed dissensions of Leicester and Gloucester paralysed
the baronage. Before long Simon withdrew to the continent, leaving everything in Gloucester's
hands. At last, on December 7, a treaty of pacification was patched up, and the king announced
that he was ready to pardon those who accepted its conditions. But there was no permanence
in the settlement, and the king, the chief gainer by it, was soon pressing the new pope, Urban
IV., to confirm the bull of Alexander. On February 25, 1262, Urban renewed Henry's absolution
from his oath in a bull which was at once promulgated in England. Montfort then came back from
abroad and rallied the baronial party. In January, 1263, Henry once more confirmed the Provisions,
and peace seemed restored. The death of Richard of Gloucester during 1262 increased Montfort's
power. His son, the young Earl Gilbert, was Simon's devoted disciple, but he was still a minor
and the custody of his lands was handed over to the Earl of Hereford. Montfort's personal charm
succeeded in like fashion in winning over Henry of Almaine.

The events of 1263 are as bewildering and as indecisive as those of the two previous years.
Amidst the confusion of details and the violent clashing of personal and territorial interests,
a few main principles can be discerned. First of all the royalist party was becoming decidedly
stronger, and fresh secessions of the barons constantly strengthened its ranks. Conspicuous
among these were the lords of the march of Wales, who in 1258 had been almost as one man on
the side of the opposition, but who by the end of 1263 had with almost equal unanimity rallied
to the crown.[1] The causes of this change of front are to be found partly in public and partly
in personal reasons. In 1258 Henry III., like Charles I. in 1640, had alienated every class
of his subjects, and was therefore entirely at the mercy of his enemies. By 1263 his concessions
had procured for him a following, so that he now stood in the same position as Charles after
his concessions to the Long Parliament made it possible for him to begin the Civil War in 1642.
A new royalist party was growing up with a wider policy and greater efficiency than the old
coterie of courtiers and aliens. Of this new party Edward was the soul. He had dissociated
himself from Earl Simon, but he carried into his father's camp something of Simon's breadth
of vision and force of will. He set to work to win over individually the remnant that adhered
to Leicester. What persuasion and policy could not effect was accomplished by bribes and promises.
Edward won over the Earl of Hereford, whose importance was doubled by his custody of the Gloucester
lands, the ex-justiciar Roger Bigod, and above all Roger Mortimer.

    [1] On this, and the whole marcher and Welsh aspect of the
    period, 1258-1267, see my essay on Wales and the March during
    the Barons' Wars in Owens College Historical Essays, pp.
    76-136 (1902).

The change of policy of the marchers was partly at least brought about by their constant difficulties
with the Prince of Wales. During the period immediately succeeding the Provisions of Oxford,
Llewelyn ceased to devastate the marches. A series of truces was arranged which, if seldom
well kept, at least avoided war on a grand scale. Within Wales Llewelyn fully availed himself
of the respite from English war. Triumphant over the minor chiefs, he could reckon upon the
support of every Welsh tenant of a marcher lord, and at last grew strong enough to disregard
the truces and wage open war against the marchers. It was in vain that Edward, the greatest
of the marcher lords, persuaded David, the Welsh prince's brother, to rise in revolt against
him. Llewelyn devastated the four cantreds to the gates of Chester, and at last, after long
sieges, forced the war-worn defenders of Deganwy and Diserth to surrender the two strong castles
through which alone Edward had retained some hold over his Welsh lands. It was the same in
the middle march, where Llewelyn turned his arms against the Mortimers, and robbed them of
their castles. Even in the south the lord of Gwynedd carried everything before him. "If the
Welsh are not stopped," wrote a southern marcher, "they will destroy all the lands of the king
as far as the Severn and the Wye, and they ask for nothing less than the whole of Gwent." Up
to this point the war had been a war of Welsh against English, but Montfort sought compensation
for his losses in England by establishing relations with the Welsh. The alliance between Montfort
and their enemy had a large share in bringing about the secession of the marchers. Their alliance
with Edward neutralised the action of Montfort, and once more enabled Henry to repudiate the
Provisions.

In the summer of 1263, Edward and Montfort both raised armies. Leicester made himself master
of Hereford, Gloucester, and Bristol, and when Edward threw himself into Windsor Castle, he
occupied Isleworth, hoping to cut his enemy off from London, where the king and queen had taken
refuge in the Tower. But the hostility of the Londoners made the Tower an uneasy refuge for
them. On one occasion, when the queen attempted to make her way up the Thames in the hope of
joining her son at Windsor, the citizens assailed her barge so fiercely from London Bridge
that she was forced to return to the Tower. The foul insults which the rabble poured upon his
mother deeply incensed Edward and he became a bitter foe of the city for the rest of his life.
For the moment the hostility of London was decisive against Henry. Once more the king was forced
to confirm the Provisions, agree to a fresh banishment of the aliens, and restore Hugh Despenser
to the justiciarship. This was the last baronial triumph. In a few weeks Edward again took
up arms, and was joined by many of Montfort's associates, including his cousin, Henry of Almaine.
Even the Earl of Gloucester was wavering. The barons feared the appeal to arms, and entered
into negotiations. Neither side was strong enough to obtain mastery over the other, and a recourse
to arbitration seemed the best way out of an impossible situation. Accordingly, on December,
1263, the two parties agreed to submit the question of the validity of the Provisions to the
judgment of Louis IX.

The king and his son at once crossed the channel to Amiens, where the French king was to hear
both sides. A fall from his horse prevented Leicester attending the arbitration, and the barons
were represented by Peter Montfort, lord of Beaudesert castle in Warwickshire, and representative
of an ancient Anglo-Norman house that was not akin to the family of Earl Simon. Louis did not
waste time, and on January 23, 1264, issued his decision in a document called the "Mise of
Amiens," which pronounced the Provisions invalid, largely on the ground of the papal sentence.
Henry was declared free to select his own wardens of castles and ministers, and Louis expressly
annulled "the statute that the realm of England should henceforth be governed by native-born
Englishmen". "We ordain," he added, "that the king shall have full power and free jurisdiction
over his realm as in the days before the Provisions." The only consolation to the barons was
that Louis declared that he did not intend to derogate from the ancient liberties of the realm,
as established by charter or custom, and that he urged a general amnesty on both parties. In
all essential points Louis decided in favour of Henry. Though the justest of kings, he was
after all a king, and the limitation of the royal authority by a baronial committee seemed
to him to be against the fundamental idea of monarchy. The pious son of the Church was biassed
by the authority of two successive popes, and he was not unmoved by the indignation of his
wife, the sister of Queen Eleanor. A few weeks later Urban IV. confirmed the award.

The Mise of Amiens was too one-sided to be accepted. The decision to refer matters to St. Louis
had been made hastily, and many enemies of the king had taken no part in it. They, at least,
were free to repudiate the judgment and they included the Londoners, the Cinque Ports, and
nearly the whole of the lesser folk of England. The Londoners set the example of rebellion.
They elected a constable and a marshal, and joining forces with Hugh Despenser, the baronial
justiciar, who still held the Tower, marched out to Isleworth, where they burnt the manor of
the King of the Romans. "And this," wrote the London Chronicler, "was the beginning of trouble
and the origin of the deadly war by which so many thousand men perished." The Londoners did
not act alone. Leicester refused to be bound by the award, though definitely pledged to obey
it. It was, he maintained, as much perjury to abandon the Provisions as to be false to the
promise to accept the Mise of Amiens. After a last attempt at negotiation at a parliament at
Oxford, he withdrew with his followers and prepared for resistance. "Though all men quit me,"
he cried, "I will remain with my four sons and fight for the good cause which I have sworn
to defend--the honour of Holy Church and the good of the realm." This was no mere boast. The
more his associates fell away, the more the Montfort family took the lead. While Leicester
organised resistance in the south, he sent his elder sons, Simon and Henry, to head the revolt
in the midlands and the west.

There was already war in the march of Wales when Henry Montfort crossed the Severn and strove
to make common cause with Llewelyn. But the Welsh prince held aloof from him, and Edward himself
soon made his way to the march. At first all went well for young Montfort. Edward, unable to
capture Gloucester and its bridge, was forced to beg for a truce. Before long he found himself
strong enough to repudiate the armistice and take possession of Gloucester. Master of the chief
passage over the lower Severn, Edward abandoned the western campaign and went with his marchers
to join his father at Oxford, where he at once stirred up the king to activity. The masters
of the university, who were strong partisans of Montfort, were chased away from the town. Then
the royal army marched against Northampton, the headquarters of the younger Simon, who was
resting there, and, on April 4, the king and his son burst upon the place. Their first assault
was unsuccessful, but next day the walls were scaled, the town captured, and many leading barons,
including young Simon, taken prisoner. The victors thereupon marched northwards, devastated
Montfort's Leicestershire estates, and thence proceeded to Nottingham, which opened its gates
in a panic.

Leicester himself had not been idle. While his sons were courting disaster in the west and
midlands, he threw himself into London, where he was rapturously welcomed. The Londoners, however,
became very unruly, committed all sorts of excesses against the wealthy royalists, and cruelly
plundered and murdered the Jews. Montfort himself did not disdain to share in the spoils of
the Jewry, though he soon turned to nobler work. He was anxious to open up communications with
his allies in the Cinque Ports. But Earl Warenne, in Rochester castle, blocked the passage
of the Dover road over the Medway. Accordingly Montfort marched with a large following of Londoners
to Rochester, captured the town, and assaulted the castle with such energy that it was on the
verge of surrendering. The news of Warenne's peril reached Henry in the midlands. In five days
the royalists made their way from Nottingham to Rochester, a distance of over 160 miles. On
their approach Montfort withdrew into London.

