At this time both his sons were living with the Duke in London. It had been found impracticable
to send Lord Gerald back to Cambridge. The doors of Trinity were closed against him. But some
interest had been made in his favour, and he was to be transferred to Oxford. All the truth
had been told, and there had been a feeling that the lad should be allowed another chance.
He could not however go to his new Alma Mater till after the long vacation. In the meantime
he was to be taken by a tutor down to a cottage on Dartmoor and there be made to read,--with
such amusement in the meantime as might be got from fishing, and playing cricket with the West
Devon county club. "It isn't a very bright look-out for the summer," his brother had said to
him, "but it's better than breaking out on the loose altogether. You be a credit to the family
and all that sort of thing. Then I'll give up the borough to you. But mind you stick to the
Liberals. I've made an ass of myself." However in these early days of June Lord Gerald had
not yet got his tutor.

Though the father and the two young men were living together they did not see very much of
each other. The Duke breakfasted at nine and the repast was a very simple one. When they failed
to appear, he did not scold,--but would simply be disappointed. At dinner they never met. It
was supposed that Lord Gerald passed his mornings in reading, and some little attempts were
made in that direction. It is to be feared they did not come to much. Silverbridge was very
kind to Gerald, feeling an increased tenderness for him on account of that Cambridge mishap.
Now they were much together, and occasionally, by a strong effort, would grace their father's
breakfast-table with their company.

It was not often that he either reproached them or preached to them. Though he could not live
with them on almost equal terms, as some fathers can live with their sons, though he could
not laugh at their fun or make them laugh at his wit, he knew that it would have been better
both for him and them if he had possessed this capacity. Though the life which they lived was
distasteful to him,--though racehorses were an abomination to him, and the driving of coaches
a folly, and club-life a manifest waste of time, still he recognised these things as being,
if not necessary, yet unavoidable evils. To Gerald he would talk about Oxford, avoiding all
allusions to past Cambridge misfortunes; but in the presence of Silverbridge, whose Oxford
career had been so peculiarly unfortunate, he would make no allusion to either of the universities.
To his eldest son he would talk of Parliament, which of all subjects would have been the most
congenial had they agreed in politics. As it was he could speak more freely to him on that
than any other matter.

One Thursday night as the two brothers went to bed on returning from the Beargarden, at a not
very late hour, they agreed that they would "give the governor a turn" the next morning,--by
which they meant that they would drag themselves out of bed in time to breakfast with him.
"The worst of it is that he never will let them get anything to eat," said Gerald. But Silverbridge
explained that he had taken that matter into his own hands, and had specially ordered broiled
salmon and stewed kidneys. "He won't like it, you know," said Gerald. "I'm sure he thinks it
wicked to eat anything but toasted bacon before lunch."

At a very little after nine Silverbridge was in the breakfast-room, and there found his father.
"I suppose Gerald is not up yet," said the Duke almost crossly.

"Oh yes he is, sir. He'll be here directly."

"Have you seen him this morning?"

"No; I haven't seen him. But I know he'll be here. He said he would, last night."

"You speak of it as if it were an undertaking."

"No, not that, sir. But we are not always quite up to time."

"No; indeed you are not. Perhaps you sit late at the House."

"Sometimes I do," said the young member, with a feeling almost akin to shame as he remembered
all the hours spent at the Beargarden. "I have had Gerald there in the Gallery sometimes. It
is just as well he should know what is being done."

"Quite as well."

"I shouldn't wonder if he gets a seat some day."

"I don't know how that may be."

"He won't change as I have done. He'll stick to your side. Indeed I think he'd do better in
the House than I shall. He has more gift of the gab."

"That is not the first thing requisite."

"I know all that, sir. I've read your letter more than once, and I showed it to him."

There was something sweet and pleasant in the young man's manner by which the father could
hardly not be captivated. They had now sat down, and the servant had brought in the unusual
accessories for a morning feast. "What is all that?" asked the Duke.

"Gerald and I are so awfully hungry of a morning," said the son, apologising.

"Well;--it's a very good thing to be hungry;--that is if you can get plenty to eat. Salmon,
is it? I don't think I'll have any myself. Kidneys! Not for me. I think I'll take a bit of
fried bacon. I also am hungry, but not awfully hungry."

"You never seem to me to eat anything, sir."

"Eating is an occupation from which I think a man takes the more pleasure the less he considers
it. A rural labourer who sits on the ditch-side with his bread and cheese and an onion has
more enjoyment out of it than any Lucullus."

"But he likes a good deal of it."

"I do not think he ever over-eats himself,--which Lucullus does. I have envied a ploughman
his power,--his dura ilia,--but never an epicure the appreciative skill of his palate. If Gerald
does not make haste he will have to exercise neither the one nor the other upon that fish."

"I will leave a bit for him, sir,--and here he is. You are twenty minutes late, Gerald. My
father says that bread and cheese and onions would be better for you than salmon and stewed
kidneys."

"No, Silverbridge;--I said no such thing; but that if he were a hedger and ditcher the bread
and cheese and onions would be as good."

"I should not mind trying them at all," said Gerald. "Only one never does have such things
for breakfast. Last winter a lot of us skated to Ely, and we ate two or three loaves of bread
and a whole cheese at a pot-house! And as for beer, we drank the public dry."

"It was because for the time you had been a hedger and ditcher."

"Proby was a ditcher I know, when he went right through into one of the dykes. Just push on
that dish, Silverbridge. It's no good you having the trouble of helping me half-a-dozen times.
I don't think things are a bit the nicer because they cost a lot of money. I suppose that is
what you mean, sir."

"Something of that kind, Gerald. Not to have money for your wants;--that must be troublesome."

"Very bad indeed," said Silverbridge, shaking his head wisely, as a Member of Parliament might
do who felt that something should be done to put down such a lamentable state of things.

"I don't complain," said Gerald. "No fellow ever had less right to complain. But I never felt
that I had quite enough. Of course it was my own fault."

"I should say so, my boy. But then there are a great many like you. Let their means be what
they may, they never have quite enough. To be in any difficulty with regard to money,--to owe
what you cannot pay, or even to have to abstain from things which you have told yourself are
necessary to yourself or to those who depend on you,--creates a feeling of meanness."

"That is what I have always felt," said Silverbridge. "I cannot bear to think that I should
like to have a thing and that I cannot afford it."

"You do not quite understand me, I fear. The only case in which you can be justified in desiring
that which you cannot afford is when the thing is necessary;--as bread may be, or clothes."

"As when a fellow wants a lot of new breeches before he has paid his tailor's bill."

"As when a poor man," said the Duke impressively, "may long to give his wife a new gown, or
his children boots to keep their feet from the mud and snow." Then he paused a moment, but
the serious tone of his voice and the energy of his words had sent Gerald headlong among his
kidneys. "I say that in such cases money must be regarded as a blessing."

"A ten-pound note will do so much," said Silverbridge.

"But beyond that it ought to have no power of conferring happiness, and certainly cannot drive
away sorrow. Not though you build palaces out into the deep, can that help you. You read your
Horace, I hope. 'Scandunt eodum quo dominus minæ.'"

"I recollect that," said Gerald. "Black care sits behind the horseman."

"Even though he have a groom riding after him beautiful with exquisite boots. As far as I have
been able to look out into the world--"

"I suppose you know it as well as anybody," said Silverbridge,--who was simply desirous of
making himself pleasant to the "dear old governor."

"As far as my experience goes, the happiest man is he who, being above the troubles which money
brings, has his hands the fullest of work. If I were to name the class of men whose lives are
spent with the most thorough enjoyment, I think I should name that of barristers who are in
large practice and also in Parliament."

"Isn't it a great grind, sir?" asked Silverbridge.

"A very great grind, as you call it. And there may be the grind and not the success. But--"
He had now got up from his seat at the table and was standing with his back against the chimney-piece,
and as he went on with his lecture,--as the word "But" came from his lips--he struck the fingers
of one hand lightly on the palm of the other as he had been known to do at some happy flight
of oratory in the House of Commons. "But it is the grind that makes the happiness. To feel
that your hours are filled to overflowing, that you can barely steal minutes enough for sleep,
that the welfare of many is entrusted to you, that the world looks on and approves, that some
good is always being done to others,--above all things some good to your country;--that is
happiness. For myself I can conceive none other."

"Books," suggested Gerald, as he put the last morsel of the last kidney into his mouth.

"Yes, books! Cicero and Ovid have told us that to literature only could they look for consolation
in their banishment. But then they speak of a remedy for sorrow, not of a source of joy. No
young man should dare to neglect literature. At some period of his life he will surely need
consolation. And he may be certain that should he live to be an old man, there will be none
other,--except religion. But for that feeling of self-contentment, which creates happiness--hard
work, and hard work alone, can give it to you."

"Books are hard work themselves sometimes," said Gerald.

"As for money," continued the father, not caring to notice this interruption, "if it be regarded
in any other light than as a shield against want, as a rampart under the protection of which
you may carry on your battle, it will fail you. I was born a rich man."

"Few people have cared so little about it as you," said the elder son.

"And you, both of you, have been born to be rich." This assertion did not take the elder brother
by surprise. It was a matter of course. But Lord Gerald, who had never as yet heard anything
as to his future destiny from his father, was interested by the statement. "When I think of
all this,--of what constitutes happiness,--I am almost tempted to grieve that it should be so."

"If a large fortune were really a bad thing," said Gerald, "a man could I suppose get rid of it."

