DIRECT LEGISLATION

BY

THE CITIZENSHIP

THROUGH

THE INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM

BY

J.W. SULLIVAN

       *       *       *       *       *

  CONTENTS:

  AS TO THIS BOOK                                    i.

  THE INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM IN SWITZERLAND       5

  THE PUBLIC STEWARDSHIP OF SWITZERLAND             25

  THE COMMON WEALTH OF SWITZERLAND                  47

  DIRECT LEGISLATION IN THE UNITED STATES           72

  THE WAY OPEN TO PEACEFUL REVOLUTION               95

       *       *       *       *       *

[Copyright, 1892, by J.W. Sullivan.]

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW YORK TRUE NATIONALIST PUBLISHING COMPANY 1893

AS TO THIS BOOK.

This is the second in a series of sociological works, each a small volume, I have in course
of publication. The first, "A Concept of Political Justice," gave in outline the major positions
which seem to me logically to accord in practical life with the political principle of equal
freedom. In the present work, certain of the positions taken in the first are amplified. In
each of the volumes to come, which will be issued as I find time to complete them, similar
amplification in the case of other positions will be made. Naturally, the order of publication
of the proposed works may be influenced by the general trend in the discussion of public questions.

The small-book plan I have adopted for several reasons. One is, that the writer who embodies
his thought on any large subject in a single weighty volume commonly finds difficulty in selling
the work or having it read; the price alone restricts its market, and the volume, by its very
size, usually repels the ordinary reader. Another, that the radical world, which I especially
address, is nowadays assailed with so much printed matter that in it big books have slight
show of favor. Another, that the reader of any volume in the series subsequent to the first
may on reference to the first ascertain the train of connection and entire scope of the thought
I would present. And, finally, that such persons as have been won to the support of the principles
taught may interest themselves, and perhaps others, in spreading knowledge of these principles,
as developed in the successive works.

On the last-mentioned point, a word. Having during the past decade closely observed, and in
some measure shared in, the discussion of advanced sociological thought, I maintain with confidence
the principles of equal freedom, not only in their essential truth, but in the leading applications
I have made of them. At least, I may trust that, thus far in either work, in coming to my more
important conclusions, I have not fallen into error through blind devotion to an "ism" nor
halted at faulty judgment because of limited investigation. I therefore hope to have others
join with me, some to work quite in the lines I follow, and some to move at least in the direction
of those lines.

The present volume I have prepared with care. My attention being attracted about eight years
ago to the direct legislation of Switzerland, I then set about collecting what notes in regard
to that institution I could glean from periodicals and other publications. But at that time
very little of value had been printed in English. Later, as exchange editor of a social reform
weekly journal, I gathered such facts bearing on the subject as were passing about in the American
newspaper world, and through the magazine indexes for the past twenty years I gained access
to whatever pertaining to Switzerland had gone on record in the monthlies and quarterlies;
while at the three larger libraries of New York--the Astor, the Mercantile, and the Columbia
College--I found the principal descriptive and historical works on Switzerland. But from all
these sources only a slender stock of information with regard to the influence of the Initiative
and Referendum on the later political and economic development of Switzerland was to be obtained.
So, when, three years ago, with inquiry on this point in mind, I spent some months in Switzerland,
about all I had at first on which to base investigations was a collection of commonplace or
beclouded fact from the newspapers, a few statistics and opinions from an English magazine
or two, and some excerpts from volumes by De Laveleye and Freeman which contained chapters
treating of Swiss institutions. Soon after, as a result of my observations in the country,
I contributed, under the caption "Republican Switzerland," a series of articles to the New
York "Times" on the Swiss government of today, and, last April, an essay to the "Chautauquan"
magazine on "The Referendum in Switzerland." On the form outlined in these articles I have
constructed the first three chapters of the present work. The data, however, excepting in a
few cases, are corrected to 1892, and in many respects besides I have profited by the labors
of other men in the same field.

The past two years and a half has seen much writing on Swiss institutions. Political investigators
are awakening to the fact that in politics and economics the Swiss are doing what has never
before been done in the world. In neighborhood, region, and nation, the entire citizenship
in each case concerned is in details operating the government. In certain cantons it is done
in every detail. Doing this, the Swiss are moving rapidly in practically grappling with social
problems that elsewhere are hardly more than speculative topics with scholars and theorists.
In other countries, consequently, interested lookers-on, having from different points of view
taken notes of democratic Switzerland, are, through newspaper, magazine, and book, describing
its unprecedented progress and suggesting to their own countrymen what in Swiss governmental
experience may be found of value at home. Of the more solid writing of this character, four
books may especially be recommended. I mention them in the order of their publication.

"The Swiss Confederation." By Sir Francis Ottiwell Adams and C.D. Cunningham. (London: Macmillan
& Co.; 1889; 289 pages; $1.75.) Sir Francis Ottiwell Adams was for some years British Minister
at Berne.

"The Federal Government of Switzerland: An Essay on the Constitution." By Bernard Moses, Ph.D.,
professor of history and political economy, University of California. (Pacific Press Publishing
Company: Oakland, Cal.; 1889; 256 pages; $1.25.) This work is largely a comparative study of
constitutions. It is meant chiefly for the use of students of law and of legal history. It
abounds, however, in facts as to Switzerland which up to the time of its publication were quite
inaccessible to American readers.

"State and Federal Government of Switzerland." By John Martin Vincent, Ph.D., librarian and
instructor in the department of history and politics, Johns Hopkins University. (Baltimore:
Johns Hopkins Press; 1891; 247 pages; $1.50.) Professor Vincent had access, at the university,
to the considerable collection of books and papers relating to Switzerland made by Professor
J.C. Bluntschli, an eminent Swiss historian who died in 1881, and also to a large number of
government publications presented by the Swiss Federal Council to the university library.

"The Swiss Republic." By Boyd Winchester, late United States Minister at Berne. (Philadelphia:
J.B. Lippincott & Co.; 1891; 487 pages; $1.50.) Mr. Winchester was stationed four years at
Berne, and hence had better opportunity than Professor Vincent or Professor Moses for obtaining
a thorough acquaintance with Switzerland. Much of his book is taken up with descriptive writing,
all good.

Were I asked which of these four works affords the fullest information as to new Switzerland
and new Swiss political methods, I should be obliged to refer the inquirer to his own needs.
Professor Moses's is best for one applying himself to law and constitutional history. Professor
Vincent's is richest in systematized details and statistics, especially such as relate to the
Referendum and taxation; and in it also is a bibliography of Swiss politics and history. For
the general reader, desiring description of the country, stirring democratic sentiment, and
an all-round view of the great little republic, Mr. Winchester's is preferable.

In expanding and rearranging my "Times" and "Chautauquan" articles, I have, to some extent,
used these books.

Throughout this work, wherever possible, conservatives, rather than myself, have been made
to speak; hence quotations are frequent. The first drafts of the chapters on Switzerland have
been read by Swiss radicals of different schools, and the final proofsheets have been revised
by a Swiss writer of repute living in New York; therefore serious error is hardly probable.
The one fault I myself have to find with the work is its baldness of statement, rendered necessary
by space limits. I could, perhaps more easily, have prepared four or five hundred pages instead
of the one hundred and twenty. I leave it rather to the reader to supply comparison and analysis
and the eloquent comment of which, it seems to me, many of the statements of fact are worthy.
J.W.S.

THE INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM IN SWITZERLAND.

Democratic versus Representative Government.

There is a radical difference between a democracy and a representative government. In a democracy,
the citizens themselves make the law and superintend its administration; in a representative
government, the citizens empower legislators and executive officers to make the law and to
carry it out. Under a democracy, sovereignty remains uninterruptedly with the citizens, or
rather a changing majority of the citizens; under a representative government, sovereignty
is surrendered by the citizens, for stated terms, to officials. In other words, democracy is
direct rule by the majority, while representative government is rule by a succession of quasi-oligarchies,
indirectly and remotely responsible to the majority.

Observe, now, first, the influences that chiefly contribute to make government in the United
States what it is:--

The county, state, and federal governments are not democracies. In form, they are quasi-oligarchies
composed of representatives and executives; but in fact they are frequently complete oligarchies,
composed in part of unending rings of politicians that directly control the law and the offices,
and in part of the permanent plutocracy, who purchase legislation through the politicians.

Observe, next, certain strong influences for the better that obtain in a pure democracy:--

An obvious influence is, in one respect, the same as that which enriches the plutocrat and
prompts the politician to reach for power--self-interest. When all the members of any body
of men find themselves in equal relation to a profitable end in which they solely are concerned,
they will surely be inclined to assert their joint independence of other bodies in that respect,
and, further, each member will claim his full share of whatever benefits arise. But, more than
that; something like equality of benefits being achieved, perhaps through various agencies
of force, a second influence will be brought powerfully to bear on those concerned. It is that
of justice. Fair play to all the members will be generally demanded.

In a pure democracy, therefore, intelligently controlled self-interest and a consequent sentiment
of justice are the sources in which the highest possible social benefits may be expected to begin.

The reader has now before him the political principle to be here maintained--pure democracy
as distinguished from representative government. My argument, then, becomes this: To show that,
by means of the one lawmaking method to which pure democracy is restricted,--that of direct
legislation by the citizenship,--the political "ring," "boss," and "heeler" may be abolished,
the American plutocracy destroyed, and government simplified and reduced to the limits set
by the conscience of the majority as affected by social necessities. My task involves proof
that direct legislation is possible with large communities.

Direct Legislation in Switzerland.

Evidence as to the practicability and the effects of direct legislation is afforded by Switzerland,
especially in its history during the past twenty-five years. To this evidence I turn at once.

There are in Switzerland twenty-two cantons (states), which are subdivided into 2,706 communes
(townships). The commune is the political as well as territorial unit. Commonly, as nearly
as consistent with cantonal and federal rights, in local affairs the commune governs itself.
Its citizens regard it as their smaller state. It is jealous of interference by the greater
state. It has its own property to look after. Until the interests of the canton or the Confederation
manifestly replace those of the immediate locality, the commune declines to part with the administration
of its lands, forests, police, roads, schools, churches, or taxes.

In German Switzerland the adult male inhabitants of the commune meet at least once annually,
usually in the town market place or on a mountain plain, and carry out their functions as citizens.
There they debate proposed laws, name officers, and discuss affairs of a public nature. On
such occasions, every citizen is a legislator, his voice and vote influencing the questions
at issue. The right of initiating a measure belongs to each. Decision is ordinarily made by
show of hands. In most cantons the youth becomes a voter at twenty, the legal age for acquiring
a vote in federal affairs, though the range for cantonal matters is from eighteen to twenty-one.

Similar democratic legislative meetings govern two cantons as cantons and two other cantons
divided into demi-cantons. In the demi-canton of Outer Appenzell, 13,500 voters are qualified
thus to meet and legislate, and the number actually assembled is sometimes 10,000. But this
is the highest extreme for such an assemblage--a Landsgemeinde (a land-community)--the lowest
for a canton or a demi-canton comprising about 3,000. One other canton (Schwyz, 50,307 inhabitants)
has Landsgemeinde meetings, there being six, with an average of 2,000 voters to each. In communal
political assemblages, however, there are usually but a few hundred voters.

The yearly cantonal or demi-cantonal Landsgemeinde takes place on a Sunday in April or May.
While the powers and duties of the body vary somewhat in different cantons, they usually cover
the following subjects: Partial as well as total revision of the constitution; enactment of
all laws; imposition of direct taxes; incurrence of state debts and alienation of public domains;
the granting of public privileges; assumption of foreigners into state citizenship; establishment
of new offices and the regulation of salaries; election of state, executive, and judicial officers.[A]

[Footnote A: J.M. Vincent: "State and Federal Government in Switzerland."]

The programme for the meeting is arranged by the officials and published beforehand, the law
in some cantons requiring publication four weeks before the meeting, and in others but ten
days. "To give opportunities for individuals and authorities to make proposals and offer bills,
the official gazette announces every January that for fourteen days after a given date petitions
may be presented for that purpose. These must be written, the object plainly stated and accompanied
by the reasons. All such motions are considered by what is called the Triple Council, or legislature,
and are classified as 'expedient' and 'inexpedient.' A proposal receiving more than ten votes
must be placed on the list of expedient, accompanied by the opinion of the council. The rejected
are placed under a special rubric, familiarly called by the people the Beiwagen. The assembly
may reverse the action of the council if it chooses and take a measure out of the 'extra coach,'
but consideration of it is in that case deferred until the next year. In the larger assemblies
debate is excluded, the vote being simply on rejection or adoption. In the smaller states the
line is not so tightly drawn.... Votes are taken by show of hands, though secret ballot may
be had if demanded, elections of officers following the same rule in this matter as legislation.
Nominations for office, however, need not be sent in by petition, but may be offered by any
one on the spot."[B]

[Footnote B: Vincent.]

The Initiative and the Referendum.

It will be observed that the basic practical principles of both the communal meeting and the
Landsgemeinde are these two:

(1) That every citizen shall have the right to propose a measure of law to his fellow-citizens--this
principle being known as the Initiative.

(2) That the majority shall actually enact the law by voting the acceptance or the rejection
of the measures proposed. This principle, when applied in non-Landsgemeinde cantons, through
ballotings at polling places, on measures sent from legislative bodies to the people, is known
as the Referendum.

The Initiative has been practiced in many of the communes and in the several Landsgemeinde
cantons in one form or other from time immemorial. In the past score of years, however, it
has been practiced by petition in an increasing number of the cantons not having the democratic
assemblage of all the citizens.

The Referendum owes its origin to two sources. One source was in the vote taken at the communal
meeting and the Landsgemeinde. The principle sometimes extended to cities, Berne, for instance,
in the fifty-five years from 1469 to 1524, taking sixty referendary votings. The other source
was in the vote taken by the ancient cantons on any action by their delegates to the federal
Diet, or congress, these delegates undertaking no affair except on condition of referring it
to the cantonal councils--ad referendum.

The principles of the Initiative and Referendum have of recent years been extended so as to
apply, to a greater or lesser extent, not only to cantonal affairs in cantons far too large
for the Landsgemeinde, but to certain affairs of the Swiss Confederation, comprising three
million inhabitants. In other words, the Swiss nation today sees clearly, first, that the democratic
system has manifold advantages over the representative; and, secondly, that no higher degree
of political freedom and justice can be obtained than by granting to the least practicable
minority the legal right to propose a law and to the majority the right to accept or reject
it. In enlarging the field of these working principles, the Swiss have developed in the political
world a factor which, so far as it is in operation, is creating a revolution to be compared
only with that caused in the industrial world by the steam engine.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cantonal Initiative exists in fourteen of the twenty-two cantons--in some of them, however,
only in reference to constitutional amendments. Usually, the proposal of a measure of cantonal
law by popular initiative must be made through petition by from one-twelfth to one-sixteenth
of the voters of the canton. When the petition reaches the cantonal legislature, the latter
body is obliged, within a brief period, specified by the constitution, to refer the proposal
to a cantonal vote. If the decision of the citizens is then favorable, the measure is law,
and the executive and judicial officials must proceed to carry it into effect.

The cantonal Referendum is in constant practice in all the cantons except Freiburg, which is
governed by a representative legislature. The extent, however, to which the Referendum is applied
varies considerably. In two cantons it is applicable only to financial measures; in others
it is optional with the people, who sometimes demand it, but oftener do not; in others it is
obligatory in connection with the passage of every law. More explicitly: In the canton of Vaud
a mere pseudo-referendary right exists, under which the Grand Council (the legislature) may,
if it so decides, propose a reference to the citizens. Valais takes a popular vote only on
such propositions passed by the Grand Council as involve a one and a half per cent increase
in taxation or a total expenditure of 60,000 francs. With increasing confidence in the people,
the cantons of Lucerne, Zug, Bâle City, Schaffhausen, St. Gall, Ticino, Neuchâtel, and Geneva
refer a proposed law, after it has passed the Grand Council, to the voters when a certain proportion
of the citizens, usually one-sixth to one-fourth, demand it by formal petition. This form is
called the optional Referendum. Employed to its utmost in Zurich, Schwyz, Berne, Soleure, Bâle
Land, Aargau, Thurgau, and the Grisons, in these cantons the Referendum permits no law to be
passed or expenditure beyond a stipulated sum to be made by the legislature without a vote
of the people. This is known as the obligatory Referendum. Glarus, Uri, the half cantons of
Niwald and Obwald (Unterwald), and those of Outer and Inner Appenzell, as cantons, or demi-cantons,
still practice the democratic assemblage--the Landsgemeinde.

In the following statistics, the reader may see at a glance the progress of the Referendum
to the present date, with the population of Switzerland by cantons, and the difficulties presented
by differences of language in the introduction of reforms:--

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
             | No. inhab.  |                 | Form of Passing | Yr. of
Canton.      | Dec., 1888. | Language.       |     Laws.       | Entry
-------------|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|-------
Zurich       |     337,183 |   German.       |   Oblig. Ref.   |   1351
Berne        |     536,679 |Ger. and French. |        "        |   1353
Lucerne      |     135,360 |   German.       |  Optional Ref.  |   1332
Uri          |      17,249 |Ger. and Italian.|  Landsgemeinde. |   1291
Schwyz       |      50,307 |    German.      |   Oblig. Ref.   |    "
Unterwald    |             |                 |                 |    "
  Obwald     |      15,041 |       "         |  Landsgemeinde. |
  Niwald     |      12,538 |       "         |        "        |
Glarus       |      33,825 |       "         |        "        |   1352
Zug          |      23,029 |       "         |  Optional Ref.  |    "
Freiburg     |     119,155 | French and Ger. |  Legislature.   |   1481
Soleure      |      85,621 |     German.     |   Oblig. Ref.   |    "
Bâle         |             |                 |                 |   1501
  City       |      73,749 |        "        |  Optional Ref.  |
  Country    |      61,941 |        "        |   Oblig. Ref.   |
Schaffhausen |      37,783 |        "        |  Optional Ref.  |    "
Appenzell    |             |                 |                 |   1573
  Outer      |      54,109 |        "        |  Landsgemeinde. |
  Inner      |      12,888 |        "        |        "        |
St. Gall     |     228,160 |        "        |  Optional Ref.  |   1803
Grisons      |      94,810 | Ger.,Ital.,Rom. |   Oblig. Ref.   |    "
Aargau       |     193,580 |     German.     |        "        |    "
Thurgau      |     104,678 |        "        |        "        |    "
Ticino       |     126,751 |    Italian.     |  Optional Ref.  |    "
Vaud         |     247,655 | French and Ger. |        "        |    "
Valais       |     101,985 |        "        |  Finance Ref.   |   1814
Neuchâtel    |     108,153 |     French.     |  Optional Ref.  |    "
Geneva       |     105,509 |        "        |        "        |    "
             |-------------|                 |                 |
             |   2,917,740 |                 |                 |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

In round numbers, 2,092,000 of the Swiss people speak German, 637,000 French, 156,000 Italian,
and 30,000 Romansch. Of the principal cities, in 1887, Zurich, with suburbs, had 92,685 inhabitants;
Bâle, 73,963; Geneva, with suburbs, 73,504; Berne, 50,220; Lausanne, 32,954; and five others
from 17,000 to 25,000. Fourteen per cent of the inhabitants (410,000) live in cities of more
than 15,000. The factory workers number 161,000, representing about half a million inhabitants,
and the peasant proprietors nearly 260,000, representing almost two millions. The area of Switzerland
is 15,892 square miles,--slightly in excess of double that of New Jersey. The population is
slightly less than that of Ohio.

Switzerland--The Youngest of Republics.

It is misleading to suppose, as is often done, that the Switzerland of today is the republic
which has stood for six hundred years. In truth, it is the youngest of republics. Its chief
governmental features, cantonal and federal, are the work of the present generation. Its unique
executive council, its democratic army organization, its republican railway management, its
federal post-office, its system of taxation, its two-chambered congress, the very Confederation
itself--all were originated in the constitution of 1848, the first that was anything more than
a federal compact. The federal Referendum began only in 1874. The federal Initiative has been
just adopted (1891.)[C] The form of cantonal Referendum now practiced was but begun (in St.
Gall) in 1830, and forty years ago only five cantons had any Referendum whatever, and these
in the optional form. It is of very recent years that the movement has become steady toward
the general adoption of the cantonal Referendum. In 1860 but 34 per cent of the Swiss possessed
it, 66 per cent delegating their sovereign rights to representatives. But in 1870 the referendariship
had risen to 71 per cent, only 29 submitting to lawmaking officials; and today the proportions
are more than 90 per cent to less than 10.

[Footnote C: For constitutional amendments only.]

The thoughtful reader will ask: Why this continual progress toward a purer democracy? Wherein
lie the inducements to this persistent revolution?

The answer is this: The masses of the citizens of Switzerland found it necessary to revolt
against their plutocracy and the corrupt politicians who were exploiting the country through
the representative system. For a peaceful revolution these masses found the means in the working
principles of their communal meetings--the Initiative and Referendum,--and these principles
they are applying throughout the republic as fast as circumstances admit.[D]

[Footnote D: While the reports of the Secretary of State and "The History of the Referendum,"
by Th. Curti, will bear out many of the statements here made as to how the change from representative
to direct legislation came about, the story as I give it has been written me by Herr Carl Bürkli,
of Zurich, known in his canton as the "Father of the Referendum."]

The great movement for democracy in Europe that culminated in the uprising of 1848 brought
to the front many original men, who discussed innovations in government from every radical
point of view. Among these thinkers were Martin Rittinghausen, Emile Girardin, and Louis Blanc.
From September, 1850, to December, 1851, the date of the coup d'état of Louis Bonaparte, these
reformers discussed, in the "Democratic pacifique," a weekly newspaper of Paris, the subject
of direct legislation by the citizens. Their essays created a sensation in France, and more
than thirty journals actively supported the proposed institution, when the coup d'état put
an end to free speech. The articles were reprinted in book form in Brussels, and other works
on the subject were afterward issued by Rittinghausen and his co-worker Victor Considérant.
Among Considérant's works was "Solution, ou gouvernement direct du peuple," and this and companion
works that fell into the hands of Carl Bürkli convinced the latter and other citizens of Zurich
("an unknown set of men," says Bürkli) of the practicability of the democratic methods advocated.
The subject was widely agitated and studied in Switzerland, and the fact that the theory was
already to some extent in practice there (and in ancient times had been much practiced) led
to further experiments, and these, attaining success, to further, and thus the work has gone
on. The cantonal Initiative was almost unknown outside the Landsgemeinde when it was established
in Zurich in 1869. Soon, however, through it and the obligatory Referendum (to use Herr Bürkli's
words): "The plutocratic government and the Grand Council of Zurich, which had connived with
the private banks and railroads, were pulled down in one great voting swoop. The people had
grown tired of being beheaded by the office-holders after every election." And politicians
and the privileged classes have ever since been going down before these instruments in the
hands of the people. The doctrines of the French theorists needed but to be engrafted on ancient
Swiss custom, the Frenchmen in fact having drawn upon Swiss experience.

The Optional and the Obligatory Referendum.

To-day the movement in the Swiss cantons is not only toward the Referendum, but toward its
obligatory form. The practice of the optional form has revealed defects in it which are inherent.[E]

[Footnote E: The facts relative to the operation of these two forms of the Referendum have
been given me by Monsieur P. Jamin, of Geneva.]

Geneva's management of the optional cantonal Referendum is typical. The constitution provides
that, certain of the laws being excepted from the Referendum, and a prerequisite of its operation
being the presentation to the Grand Council of a popular petition, the people may sanction
or reject not only the bulk of the laws passed by the Grand Council but also the decrees issued
by the legislative and executive powers. The exceptions are (1) "measures of urgence" and (2)
the items of the annual budget, save such as establish a new tax, increase one in force, or
necessitate an issue of bonds. The Referendum cannot be exercised against the budget as a whole,
the Grand Council indicating the sections which are to go to public vote. In case of opposition
to any measure, a petition for the Referendum is put in circulation. To prevent the measure
from becoming law, the petition must receive the legally attested signatures of at least 3,500
citizens--about one in six of the cantonal vote--within thirty days after the publication of
the proposed measure. After this period--known as "the first delay"--the referendary vote,
if the petition has been successful, must take place within forty days--"the second delay."

