"They are," eagerly exclaimed the youth; "how fortunate that I did not listen to the offers
of that rapacious Jew. Here, sir, take them, I implore you," pulling from his breast a large
pocket-book; "they are untouched. Spare but my life, and I will yet atone--Oh, spare me from
a shameful death."

There was a pause, broken at last by Yansen's saying significantly to his employer, "as per
margin."

The merchant turned to the unhappy young man. "Take heart," said he, "'Wenn die noth ist amgröszten
die hülfe ist am nächsten.'[11] There's an old German proverb for you. Sit down and hear what
I have to say. I think myself not a little fortunate in so soon being able to fulfil the wishes
of my English correspondents; your natural alarm did not suffer you to finish their letter;
you will perceive how generously they mean to act; their house's credit saved, they intend
not to punish you. Read, read; and Yansen, order some eatables, and a bottle or two of my old
Heidelberg hock, trouble always makes me thirsty--three glasses, my good Yansen."

    [11] When things are at the worst they must mend.

Again the young Englishman hid his face, and sighed convulsively, "I do not deserve this lenity.
My excellent father! this is a tribute to your virtue."

Von Kapell left his guest's reflections undisturbed, till a servant entered, who placed refreshments
on a well polished oak table; when she retired, he resumed.

"And now, what devil tempted you to play the--runaway?" swallowing the term he had intended
to use. "Was it for the wenches, or the dicing table?"

"Spare me, most kind and worthy sir, I intreat you! To my father I will make full confession
of all my faults; but he must be the first to know the origin of my crimes."

"Well, well, take another glass of wine; you shall stay in my house till we can find a passage
for you. It was but last night my good ship the Christine sailed for Batavia, and--"

"Under favour," interrupted Yansen, "she has not yet left the harbour; the wind blew too fresh
for her to venture on crossing the sand-banks at night, and it is now only shifting round a
point or two."

"You are lucky, youngster;" quickly added the merchant, "the Christine has noble accommodations;
you shall aboard this evening. Put these in the chest, good Yansen," handing him the bills,
"and count me out the two hundred louis d'or the boy is to have. Come, man! finish your meal,
for I see," said he, regarding a vane on the gable of an opposite house, "you have no time
to lose."

The meal was finished--the money given--the worthy merchant adding as much good advice as the
brief space would permit. The Briton was profuse in his expressions of gratitude, promised
amendment, and returned the warm grasp of Von Kapell, unable to speak for his tears. Yansen
accompanied him on board, gave the owner's most particular charge to the skipper, to pay his
passenger every attention on the voyage. The vessel cleared the harbour--was in a few hours
out of sight--and the next morning, Mynheer Von Kapell wrote to London a full account of the
transaction, returning the bills he had so fortunately recovered.

       *       *       *       *       *

In less than a fortnight, the following letter reached the good old German:--

"Sir,--We have to inform you, that we never lost the bills sent in your last favour, every
one of which is fabricated, and our acceptance forged. Our cashier has no son, nor has he lost
a wife. We are sincerely grieved that your friendly feeling towards our house should have led
you to listen to so palpable a cheat.

"We remain, with great respect, yours,

"BENNETT, FORD, AND CO.

"P.S. If you should ever hear again of the person you have, at your own expense, sent to Batavia,
we shall be glad to know."

       *       *       *       *       *

What can be said of the good old German's feelings, but that they may "be more easily conceived
than described?"--Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

OTWAY'S "VENICE PRESERVED."

(Hundreds of our readers who have again and again heard

  Belvidera pour her soul in love--

may not be aware of the precise historical connexion of the incidents of Otway's play with
the events of history. They are taken, in the main, from an atrocious conspiracy formed at
Venice in 1618. Sir Henry Wotton, then English ambassador at Venice, writes as follows on the
25th of May, in the above year:--"The whole town is here at present in horror and confusion
upon the discovering of a foul and fearful conspiracy of the French against this state; whereof
no less than thirty have already suffered very condign punishment, between men strangled in
prison, drowned in the silence of the night, and hanged in public view; and yet the bottom
is invisible." Beyond this quaint, meagre, chronological notice, little is actually established
of the details, although the event is perhaps as familiarly known by name to English readers
as any other in the History of Venice. We are, therefore, happy to see the affair treated with
minute consideration in the second volume of "Sketches from Venetian History," in the Family
Library; and so interesting is the narrative, or rather the facts and conjectures, to the lover
of history, as well as to the unstudious playgoer, that we are induced to quote nearly every
line of the passage. The editor observes:--)

Muratori indeed has scarcely exaggerated the obscurity in which this incident is enveloped
when he affirms that only one fact illuminates its darkness; namely that several hundred French
and Spaniards engaged in the service of the Republic were arrested and put to death. The researches
of Comte Daru have brought to light some hitherto unknown contemporary documents; but even
the inexhaustible diligence of that most laborious, accurate, and valuable writer has been
baffled in the hope of obtaining certainty as its reward; and he has been compelled to content
himself with the addition of one hypothesis more to those already proposed in explanation of
this mystery.

