D. Appleton and Co. have issued a novel entitled Heloise, or the Unrevealed Secret, by TALVI,
the gifted authoress of The Sketch of the Slavic Language and Literature, which is entitled
to special commendation among the recent productions of American literature. Without the machinery
of a complicated plot, and in language that is almost sculpturesque in its chaste simplicity,
it possesses an intense and unflagging interest, by its artistic delineation of character,
its profound insight into the mysteries of passion, and the calm, delicate, spiritual beauty
of its heroine. Its subtle conception of the nicest variations of feeling, is no less remarkable
than its precision in the use of language, the work, for the most part, not only reading like
the production of a native, but of one familiar with the most intimate resources of idiomatic
English. A very few exceptions to this remark in some portions of the dialogue, whose naïveté
atones for their inaccuracy, only present the general purity of the composition in a more striking
light. We sincerely trust that the writer, who has been so happily distinguished in the field
of literary research, will be induced, by the success of this volume, to continue her labors
in the province of fictitious creation. Nothing is wanting to her assurance of an enviable
fame in this department of letters.

The Initials is the title of an English novel, reprinted by A. Hart, Philadelphia, illustrative
of German life and character, and in all respects of more interest than would be predicted
from its ambiguous designation.

The Lorgnette, published by Stringer and Townsend, continues to make its appearance once a
fortnight, and well sustains the reputation it has acquired, as a brilliant, searching, and
good-humored satirical commentary on the many-colored phantasmagoria of the town. The name
of the author is still a dead secret, in spite of numerous hints and winks among the knowing
ones, and he is shrewd enough to prefer the prestige of concealment to the tickling of his
vanity by publicity. The most noticeable feature in his work is its quiet, effective style
of composition, which is utterly free from the pyrotechnic arts of so many current pretenders.

SUMMER FASHIONS.

FIG. 1. PROMENADE DRESS.--For walking in public gardens, barège dresses, plain or figured,
are generally adopted; but glacé, or damask bareges are the most recherchés. Dresses of shot
silk form also charming toilets. The skirts are less full than those of last year--but, to
compensate for it, they are trimmed with graduated flounces up to the waist--as many as five
are worn, and they are pinked and stamped at the edges. The bodies are tight, and open in front;
a cord connects the two sides of the corsage, and buttons, either of silk, colored stones,
or steel, are placed on the centre of this cord. The sleeves are wider at the bottom than at
the top, and are trimmed with two small flounces; from beneath them a large lace sleeve falls
over the hand, leaving the lower part of the arm uncovered. This form of sleeve is very becoming
to the hand.

Mantelets are very slightly altered; they are, however, rather more closely fitted to the figure
than last year; they are all made of taffetas glacé, and trimmed with pinked ruches of the
same material for young persons, and with wide black lace for married ladies.

FIG. 2, is a Pelerine of a pattern quite new; made of embroidered net, trimmed with three rows
of point d'Alençon, and ornamented with a large knot of ribbons Bayadère. Another pattern is
of Indian muslin Canezcu, embroidered and trimmed with malines, open and buttoned up in the back.

FIG. 3 is a neat costume for a little girl.

Dress of glacé silk, shaded in light green and lilac. The skirt trimmed with four rows of fringe
of green and lilac silk intermingled. The corsage low and plain, with a pelerine which passes
along the back and shoulders, and is brought down to the front of the waist in a point. This
pelerine is edged with two rows of fringe. The sleeves of the dress, which are short, are edged
simply with one row of fringe. Attached to these short sleeves are long sleeves of white muslin
made so as to set nearly close to the upper part of the arms, but finished between the elbow
and the wrist with three drawings separated by bands of needlework insertion. Above these drawings
there is a frill which falls back on the arm. The neck is covered by a chemisette of muslin,
finished at the throat with a trimming of needlework, turned over.

FIG. 4. HOME DRESS.--Morning cap trimmed with Valenciennes and gauze ribbons, cut out in the
shape of leaves, muslin guimpe bouillonné, with embroidered entre-deux; the gown en gros d'Ecosse,
with facing and trimmings cut out; pagode sleeves, with a white muslin puffing ornamented with
a very large bouillonné.

In the engraving (FIG. 5) is represented a BALL COSTUME, with a graceful head-dress, composed
of a vine garland with grapes; on each side hangs a bunch of grapes (several little hunches
are preferred). The novelty of this year is to be observed in the length of the branches, which
come down on the shoulders, mixing with long curls. This head-dress is worn also with bandeaux,
but then the garland must be thicker in the lower part. The leaves are of different colors,
from the various shades of green to the autumnal red tint. This kind of garland is made also
of ivy, with small red balls. The gowns are of taffetas d'Italie--white, rose, or blue (their
shades are to be glacés de blanc): the body is trimmed with a berthe, made of two rows of blonde;
the front ornamented with a puffing of white net laced with satin ribbons the color of the gown.