Charles Frohman's next melodrama at the Academy was the famous "Two Little Vagrants," adapted
from the French by Charles Klein. In this cast he brought forward a notable group destined
to shine in the drama, for among them were Dore Davidson, Minnie Dupree, Annie Irish, George
Fawcett, and William Farnum, the last named then just beginning to strike his theatrical stride.

Still another famous melodrama that Charles introduced to the United States at the famous old
playhouse was "The White Heather," in which he featured Rose Coghlan, and in which Amelia Bingham
made one of her first successes. With this piece Charles emphasized one of the customs he helped
to bring to the American stage. He always paid for the actresses' clothes. He told Miss Coghlan
to spare no expense on her gowns, and she spent several thousand dollars on them. When she
saw Frohman after the opening, which was a huge success, she said:

"I am almost ashamed to see you."

"Why?" he asked.

"Because I spent so much money on my gowns."

"Nonsense!" said Frohman. "You did very wisely. You and the gowns are the hit of the piece."

Frohman here established a new tradition for the production of melodrama in the United States.
Up to his era the producer depended upon thrill rather than upon accessory. Frohman lavished
a fortune on each production. Any competition with him had to be on the same elaborate scale.

Fully a year before Maude Adams made her stellar début Frohman put forth his first woman star
in Annie Russell. This gifted young Englishwoman, who had appeared on the stage at the age
of seven in "Pinafore," had made a great success in "Esmeralda," at the Madison Square Theater.
Frohman, who was then beginning his managerial career, was immediately taken with her talent.
She appeared in some of his earlier companies. He now starred her in a play by Bret Harte called
"Sue." He presented her both in New York and in London.

Under Frohman, Miss Russell had a long series of starring successes. When she appeared in "Catherine,"
at the Garrick Theater, in her support was Ethel Barrymore, who was just beginning to emerge
from the obscurity of playing "bits." In succession Miss Russell did "Miss Hobbs," "The Royal
Family," "The Girl and the Judge," "Jinny the Carrier," and "Mice and Men."

In connection with "Mice and Men" is a characteristic Frohman story. Charles ordered this play
written from Madeleine Lucette Ryley for Maude Adams. When he read the manuscript he sent it
back to Miss Ryley with the laconic comment, "Worse yet." She showed it to Gertrude Elliott,
who bought it for England. When Charles heard of this he immediately accepted the play, and
it proved to be a success. The moment a play was in demand it became valuable to him.

Spectacular success seemed to have taken up its abode with Charles. It now found expression
in the production of "Secret Service," the most picturesque and profitable of all the Gillette
enterprises. The way it came to be written is a most interesting story.

Frohman was about to sail for Europe when Gillette sent him the first act of this stirring
military play. Frohman read it at once, sent for the author and said:

"This is great, Gillette. Let me see the second act."

Gillette produced this act forthwith, and Frohman's enthusiasm increased to such an extent
that he postponed his sailing until he received the complete play. Frohman's interest in "Secret
Service" was heightened by the fact that he had scored two tremendous triumphs with military
plays, "Held by the Enemy" and "Shenandoah." He felt that the talisman of the brass button
was still his, and he plunged heavily on "Secret Service."

It was first put on in Philadelphia. Even at that time there obtained the superstition widely
felt in the theatrical business that what fails out of town must succeed in New York. Frohman,
who shared this superstition, was really eager not to register successfully in the Quaker capital.

But "Secret Service" smashed this superstition, because it scored heavily in Philadelphia and
then had an enormous run at the Garrick Theater in New York. In "Secret Service" Maurice Barrymore
had the leading part, and he played it with a distinction of bearing and a dash of manner that
were almost irresistible.

William Gillette always proved to be one of Charles Frohman's mascots. Practically whatever
he touched turned to gold. He and Frohman had now become close friends, and the actor-author
frequently accompanied the manager on his trips to London.

During their visit in 1899, "Sherlock Holmes" had become the literary rage. Everybody was talking
about the masterful detective of Baker Street.

"We must get those Doyle stories," said Frohman to Gillette.

"All right," said the author.

Frohman personally went to see Conan Doyle and made a bid for the rights.

"Certainly, Mr. Frohman," replied Doyle, "but I shall make one stipulation. There must be no
love business in 'Sherlock Holmes.'"

"All right," said Frohman; "your wishes shall be respected."

Frohman now engaged Gillette to make the adaptation, but he said absolutely nothing about the
condition that Doyle had made. Gillette, as most American theater-goers know, wove a love interest
into the strenuous life of the famous detective.

A year later, Gillette and Frohman again were in England, Gillette to read the manuscript of
the play to Doyle. The famous author liked the play immensely and made no objection whatever
to the sentimental interest. In fact, his only comment when Gillette finished reading the manuscript
was:

"It's good to see the old chap again."

He referred, of course, to Sherlock Holmes, who, up to this time, had already met his death
on four or five occasions.

"Sherlock Holmes" proved to be another "Secret Service" in every way. Gillette made an enormous
success in the title rôle, and after a long run at the Garrick went on the road. Frohman revived
it again and again until it had almost as many "farewells" as Adelina Patti. The last business
detail that Charles discussed with Gillette before sailing on the fatal trip in 1915 was for
a revival of this play at the Empire.

The Frohman Star Factory was now working full time. Next in output came William Faversham.
This brilliant young Englishman had started with Daniel Frohman's company at the Lyceum in
a small part. At a rehearsal of "The Highest Bidder" Charles singled him out.

"Where did you get your cockney dialect?" he asked.

"Riding on the top of London 'buses," was the reply.

"Well," answered Charles, "I want to do that myself some day."

This was the first contact between two men who became intimate friends and who were closely
bound up in each other's fortunes.

During his Lyceum engagement Faversham wanted to widen his activities. He read in the papers
one day that Charles was producing a number of plays, so he made up his mind he would try to
get into one of them. He went to Frohman's office every morning at half-past nine and asked
to see him or Al Hayman. Sometimes he would arrive before Frohman, and the manager had to pass
him as he went into his office. He invariably looked up, smiled at the waiting actor, and passed
on. Faversham kept this up for weeks. One day Alf Hayman asked him what he wanted there.

"I am tired of hanging round the Lyceum with nothing to do. I want a better engagement," was
the answer.

Hayman evidently communicated this to Frohman and Al Hayman, but they made no change in their
attitude. Every day they passed the waiting Faversham as they arrived in the morning and went
out to lunch, and always Frohman smiled at him.

Finally one morning Charles came to the door, looked intently at Faversham, puffed out his
cheeks as was his fashion, and smiled all over his face. Turning to Al Hayman, who was with
him, he said:

"Al, we've got to give this fellow something to do or we won't be able to go in and out of
here much longer."

In a few moments Frohman emerged again, asked Faversham how tall he was. When he was told,
he invited Faversham into his office and inquired of him if he could study a long part and
play it in two days. Faversham said he could. The result was his engagement for Rider Haggard's
"She." Such was the unusual beginning of the long and close association between Faversham and
Charles Frohman.

Faversham became leading man of the Empire Stock Company, and his distinguished career was
a matter of the greatest pride to Charles. He now was caught up in the Frohman star machine
and made his first appearance under the banner of "Charles Frohman Presents," in "A Royal Rival,"
at the Criterion in August, 1901.

Charles not only made Faversham a star, but provided him with a wife, and a very charming one,
too. In the spring of 1901 an exquisite young girl, Julie Opp by name, was playing at the St.
James Theater in London. Frohman sent for her and asked her if she could go to the United States
to act as leading woman for William Faversham.

"I have been to America once," she said, "and I want to go back as a star."

When Frohman let loose the powers of his persuasiveness, Miss Opp began to waver.

"I don't want to leave my nice London flat and my English maid," she protested.

"Take the maid with you," said Frohman. "We can't box the flat and take that to New York, but
we have flats in New York that you can hire."

"I hate to leave all my friends," continued Miss Opp.

"Well, I can't take over all your friends," replied Frohman, "but you will have plenty of new
admirers in New York."

Miss Opp asked what she thought were unreasonable terms. Frohman said nothing, but sent Charles
Dillingham to see her next day. He said Frohman wanted to know if she was joking about her
price. "Of course," he said, "if you are not joking he will pay it anyhow, because when he
makes up his mind to have anybody he is going to have him."

This shamed Miss Opp. She asked a reasonable fee, went to the United States, and not only became
Faversham's leading woman, but his wife. Frohman always took infinite delight in teasing the
Favershams about having been their matchmaker.

* * *

Charles, who loved to create a sensation in a big way, was now able to gratify one of his favorite
emotions with the production of "The Conquerors." Like many of the Frohman achievements, it
began in a picturesque way.

During the summer of 1897, Frohman and Paul Potter, being in Paris, dropped in at that chamber
of horrors, the Grand Guignol, in the Rue Chaptal. There they saw "Mademoiselle Fifi," a playlet
lasting less than half an hour, adapted by the late Oscar Metenier from Guy de Maupassant's
short story. It was the tale of a young Prussian officer who gets into a French country house
during the war of 1870, abuses the aristocrats who live there, shoots out the eyes of the family
portraits, entertains at supper a number of loose French girls from Rouen, and is shot by one
of the girls for vilifying Frenchwomen. Frohman was deeply impressed.

"Why can't you make it into a long play?" said Frohman.

"I can," said Potter.

"How?" queried Frohman.

"By showing what happened to the French aristocrats while the Prussian officer was shooting
up the place," answered the author.

"Do it," said Frohman, "and I'll open the season of the Empire Stock Company in this drama,
and get George Alexander interested for London."

As "The Conquerors" the play went into rehearsal about Christmas. Mrs. Dazian, wife of Henry
Dazian, the costumier, was watching a scene in which William Faversham plans the ruin of Viola
Allen, the leading woman.

"Well," said Mrs. Dazian, "if New York will stand for that it will stand for anything."

Frohman jumped up in excitement. "What is wrong with it?" he cried. "The manuscript was shown
to a dozen people of the cleanest minds. They found nothing wrong. I've done the scene a dozen
times. I have it up-stairs on my shelves at this moment in 'The Sporting Duchess.'"

Mrs. Dazian was obdurate. "It is awful," she said.

The first night approached. Potter was to sail for Europe next day. Frohman had provided him
with sumptuous cabin quarters on the New York. After the dress rehearsal, Potter appeared on
the Empire stage, where he found Frohman. The latter was worried.

"Paul," said he, "the first three acts are fine; the last is rotten. You must stay and rewrite
the last act."

Potter had to postpone his trip. At ten next morning the new act was handed in; the company
learned and rehearsed it by three in the afternoon, and that night Frohman and the author stood
in the box-office watching the audience file in.

"How's the house, Tommy?" demanded Frohman of Thomas Shea, his house manager.

"Over seventeen hundred dollars already," said Shea.

"You can go to Europe, Paul," said Frohman. "Your last act is all right. We don't want you
any more."

The American public agreed with Mrs. Dazian. They thought the play excruciatingly wicked, but
they were just as eager to see it on the Fourth of July as they had been six months earlier.

A dozen details combined to make "The Conquerors" a storm-center. First of all it was attacked
because of its alleged immorality. In the second place the author was charged with having appropriated
some of Sardou's "La Haine." In the third place, this play marked the first stage appearance
of Mrs. Clara Bloodgood, wife of "Jack" Bloodgood, one of the best-known men about town in
New York. Mr. Bloodgood became desperately ill during rehearsals, and his wife divided her
time between watching at his bedside and going to the theater. Of course, the newspapers were
filled with the account of the event which was agitating all society, and it added greatly
to popular interest in the play.

"The Conquerors" not only brought Paul Potter and Frohman a great success, but it sped William
Faversham on to the time when he was to become a star. The cast was one of the most distinguished
that Frohman had ever assembled, and it included among its women five future stars--Viola Allen,
Blanche Walsh, Ida Conquest, Clara Bloodgood, and May Robson.

* * *

By this time Henry Miller had left the Empire Stock Company and had gone on the road with a
play called "Heartsease," by Charles Klein and J. I. C. Clark. It failed in Cincinnati, and
Miller wrote Frohman about it. A week later the men met on Broadway. Miller still believed
in "Heartsease" and asked Frohman if he could read it to him.

"All right," replied Frohman; "come to-morrow and let me hear it."

Miller showed up the next morning and left Klein and Clark, who had accompanied him, in a lower
office. Frohman locked the door, as was his custom, curled himself up on a settee, lighted
a cigar, and asked for the manuscript.

"I didn't bring it. I will act it out for you."

Miller knew the whole production of the play depended upon his performance. He improvised whole
scenes and speeches as he went along, and he made a deep impression. When he finished, Frohman
sat still for a few moments. Then he rang a bell and Alf Hayman appeared. To him he said, quietly:

"We are going to do 'Heartsease.'"

Miller rushed down-stairs to where Klein and Clark were waiting, and told them to get to work
revising the manuscript.

When the play went into rehearsal, Frohman, who sat in front, spoke to Miller from time to
time, asking, "Where is that line you spoke in my office?"

This incident is cited to show Charles's amazing memory. Miller, of course, had improvised
constantly during his personal performance of the play, and Frohman recognized that these improvisations
were missing when the piece came into rehearsal.

Charles now added a third star to his constellation in Henry Miller. He first produced "Heartsease"
in New Haven. Charles Dillingham sat with him during the performance. When the curtain went
down on a big scene, and the audience was in a tumult, demanding star and author, Frohman leaned
over to speak to his friend. Dillingham thought he was about to make a historic remark, inspired
by the enormous success of the play before him. Instead, Frohman whispered:

"Charley, I wonder if they have any more of that famous apple-pie over at Hueblein's?"

He was referring to a famous article of food that had added almost as much glory to New Haven
as had its historic university, and for which Frohman had an inordinate love.

Henry Miller now became an established Frohman star. After "Heartsease" had had several successful
road seasons, Frohman presented Miller in "The Only Way," an impressive dramatization of Charles
Dickens's great story, "A Tale of Two Cities."

* * *

Charles Dillingham's friendship with Frohman had now become one of the closest of his life.
He always accompanied Frohman to England, and was regarded as his right-hand man. Frohman had
always urged his friend to branch out for himself. The result was that Dillingham assumed the
managership of Julia Marlowe.

Dillingham presented Miss Marlowe at the Knickerbocker Theater in New York in "The Countess
Valeska." Frohman liked the play so much that he became interested in the management of Miss
Marlowe, and together they produced "Colinette," adapted from the French by Henry Guy Carleton,
at this theater. "Colinette" inspired one of the many examples of Frohman's quick retort.

The "try-out" was at Bridgeport, and Dillingham had engaged a private chair car for the company.
When Frohman tried to get on this car at Grand Central Station the porter turned him down, saying:

"This is the Marlowe car."

Whereupon Frohman spoke up quickly and said: "I am Mr. Marlowe," and stepped aboard.

The production of "Colinette" marked the beginning of another one of Frohman's intimate associations.
He engaged William Seymour to rehearse and produce the play. Seymour later directed some of
the greatest Frohman undertakings and eventually became general stage-manager for his chief.
Frohman was now actively interested in Miss Marlowe's career. Under the joint Frohman-Dillingham
management she played in "As You Like It" and "Ingomar."

By this time Clyde Fitch had steadily made his way to the point where Frohman had ceased to
regard him as a "pink tea" author, but as a really big playwright. They became great friends.
He gave Fitch every possible encouragement. The time was at hand when Fitch was to reward that
encouragement, and in splendid fashion.

Once more the Civil War proved a Charles Frohman mascot, for Fitch now wrote "Barbara Fritchie,"
founded on John G. Whittier's famous war poem. He surrounded the star with a cast that included
W. J. Lemoyne, Arnold Daly, Dodson Mitchel, and J. H. Gilmour. The play opened at the Broad
Street Theater in Philadelphia. At the dress rehearsal began an incident which showed Charles's
ready resource.

In the second act the business of the play required that Miss Marlowe take a gun and shoot
a man. No gun was at hand. It was decided to send the late Byron Ongley, assistant stage-manager
of the company, to the Stratford Hotel, where the star lived, with a gun and show her how to
use it there.

When Frohman, who came to see the rehearsal, heard of this he had an inspiration for a fine
piece of publicity.

"Why can't Ongley pretend to be a crank and appear to be making an attempt on Miss Marlowe's life?"

He liked Ongley, and he really conceived the idea more to play one of his numerous practical
jokes than to capitalize the event.

Without saying a word to Ongley, Dillingham notified the Stratford management that Miss Marlowe
had received a threatening letter from a crank who might possibly appear and make an attempt
on her life. When Ongley entered the hotel lobby innocently carrying the gun he was beset by
four huge porters and borne to the ground. The police were summoned and he was hauled off to
jail, where he spent twenty-four hours. The newspapers made great capital of the event, and
it stimulated interest in the performance.

When "Barbara Fritchie" opened at the Criterion Theater in New York, which had passed under
the Frohman control, it scored an immediate success. It ran for four months. Not only was Miss
Marlowe put into the front rank of paying stars, but the success of the play gave Clyde Fitch
an enormous prestige, for it was his first big triumph as an original playwright. From this
time on his interest was closely linked with that of Charles Frohman, who became his sponsor.

In connection with Julia Marlowe is a characteristic Frohman story. The manager always refused
to accept the new relation when one of his women stars married. This incident grew out of Julia
Marlowe's marriage to Robert Taber.

One day his office-boy brought in word that Mrs. Taber would like to see him.

"I don't know her."

After an interval of a few moments a dulcet voice came through the door, saying, "Won't you
see me?"

"Who are you?"

"Mrs. Taber."

"I don't know Mrs. Taber, but Julia Marlowe can come in."

* * *

Charles was now in a whirlwind of activities. He was not only making stars, but also, as the
case of Clyde Fitch proved, developing playwrights. In the latter connection he had a peculiar
distinction.

One day some years before, Madeline Lucette Ryley came to see him. She was a charming English
ingénue who had been a singing soubrette in musical comedies at the famous old Casino, the
home of musical comedies, where Francis Wilson, De Wolf Hopper, Jefferson De Angelis, and Pauline
Hall had achieved fame as comic-opera stars. She had also appeared in a number of serious plays.

Mrs. Ryley made application for a position. Frohman said to her:

"I don't need actresses, but I need plays. Go home and write me one."

Mrs. Ryley up to that time had written plays only as an amateur. She went home and wrote "Christopher
Jr." and it started her on a notably successful career as a playwright. In fact, she was perhaps
the first of the really successful women playwrights.

* * *

Charles Frohman celebrated the opening theatrical season of the new twentieth century by annexing
a new star and a fortune at the same time. It was William H. Crane in "David Harum" who accomplished
this.

Again history repeated itself in a picturesque approach to a Frohman success. One morning,
at the time when both had apartments at Sherry's, Frohman and Charles Dillingham emerged from
the building after breakfast. On the sidewalk they met Denman Thompson, the old actor. Frohman
engaged him in conversation. Suddenly Thompson began to chuckle.

"What are you laughing at?" asked Frohman.

"I was thinking of a book I read last night, called 'David Harum,'" replied Thompson.

"Was it interesting?"

"The best American story I ever read," said the actor.

Frohman's eyes suddenly sparkled. He winked at Dillingham, who hailed a cab and made off. Frohman
engaged Thompson in conversation until he returned. In his pocket he carried a copy of "David
Harum."

Frohman read the book that day, made a contract for its dramatization, and from the venture
he cleared nearly half a million dollars.

Frohman considered four men for the part of David Harum. They were Denman Thompson, James A.
Hearne, Sol Smith Russell, and Crane. Thompson was too old, Hearne had been associated too
long with the "Shore Acres" type to adapt himself to the Westcott hero, and Sol Smith Russell
did not meet the requirements. Frohman regarded Crane as ideal.

His negotiations with Crane for this part were typical of his business arrangements. It took
exactly five minutes to discuss them. When the terms had been agreed upon, Frohman said to Crane:

"Are you sure this is perfectly satisfactory to you?"

"Perfectly," replied Crane.

Frohman reached over from his desk and shook his new star by the hand. It was his way of ratifying
a contract that was never put on paper, and over which no word of disagreement ever arose.
Crane's connection with Charles Frohman lasted for nine years.

Frohman personally rehearsed "David Harum." Much of its extraordinary success was due to his
marvelous energy. It was Frohman, and not the dramatist, who introduced the rain-storm scene
at the close of the second act which made one of the biggest hits of the performance. Throughout
the play there were many evidences of Frohman's skill and craftsmanship.

* * *

It was just about this time that the real kinship with Augustus Thomas began. Frohman, after
his first meeting with Thomas years before in the box-office of a St. Louis theater, had produced
his play "Surrender," and had engaged him to remodel "Sue." Now he committed the first of the
amazing quartet of errors of judgment with regard to the Thomas plays that forms one of the
curious chapters in his friendship with this distinguished American playwright.

Thomas had conceived the idea of a cycle of American plays, based on the attitude toward women
in certain sections of the country. The first of these plays had been "Alabama," the second
"In Mizzoura." Thomas now wrote "Arizona" in this series. When he offered the play to Frohman,
the manager said:

"I like this play, Gus, but I have one serious objection to it. I don't see any big situation
to use the American flag. Perhaps I am superstitious about it. I have had such immense luck
with the flag in 'Shenandoah' and 'Held by the Enemy' that I have an instinct that I ought
not to do this play, much as I would like to."

As everybody knows, the play went elsewhere and was one of the great successes of the American
stage.

Frohman now realized his mistake. He sent for Thomas and said: "I want you to write me another
one of those rough plays."

The result was "Colorado," which Frohman put on at the Grand Opera House in New York with Wilton
Lackaye in the leading rôle, but it was not a success.

A few years later Frohman made another of the now famous mistakes with Thomas. Thomas had seen
Lawrence D'Orsay doing his usual "silly ass" part in a play. He also observed that the play
lagged unless D'Orsay was on the stage. He therefore wrote a play called "The Earl of Pawtucket,"
with D'Orsay in mind, and Frohman accepted it. When the time came to select the cast, Thomas
suggested D'Orsay for the leading part.

"Impossible!" said Frohman. "He can't do it."

Thomas was so convinced that D'Orsay was the ideal man that Frohman made this characteristic
concession:

"I think well of your play, and it will probably be a success," he said, "but I do not believe
that D'Orsay is the man for it. If you can get another manager to do it I will turn back the
play to you, and if you insist upon having D'Orsay I will release him from his contract with me."

Kirk La Shelle took the play and it was another "Arizona."

Frohman produced a whole series of Thomas successes, notably "The Other Girl," "Mrs. Leffingwell's
Boots," and "De Lancey." To the end of his days the warmest and most intimate friendship existed
between the men. It was marked by the usual humor that characterized Frohman's relations. Here
is an example:

Thomas conducted the rehearsals of "The Other Girl" alone. Frohman, who was up-stairs in his
offices at the Empire, sent him a note on a yellow pad, written with the blue pencil that he
always used:

"How are you getting along at rehearsals without me?"

"Great!" scribbled Thomas.

The next day when he went up-stairs to Frohman's office, he found the note pinned on the wall.

Such was the mood of the man who had risen from obscurity to one of commanding authority in
the whole English-speaking theater.

X

THE RISE OF ETHEL BARRYMORE

While the star of Maude Adams rose high in the theatrical heaven, another lovely luminary was
about to appear over the horizon. The moment was at hand when Charles Frohman was to reveal
another one of his protégés, this time the young and beautiful Ethel Barrymore. It is an instance
of progressive and sympathetic Frohman sponsorship that gave the American stage one of its
most fascinating favorites. Some stars are destined for the stage; others are born in the theater.
Ethel Barrymore is one of the latter. Two generations of eminent theatrical achievement heralded
her advent, for she is the granddaughter of Mrs. John Drew, mistress of the famous Arch Street
Theater Company of Philadelphia, and herself, in later years, the greatest Mrs. Malaprop of
her day. Miss Barrymore's father was the brilliant and gifted Maurice Barrymore; her mother
the no less witty and talented Georgia Drew, while, among other family distinctions, she came
into the world as the niece of John Drew.

Despite the royalty of her theatrical birth, no star in America had to labor harder or win
her way by more persistent and conscientious effort. At fourteen she was playing child's parts
with her grandmother. A few years later she came to New York to get a start. Though she bore
one of the most distinguished and honored names in the profession, she sat around in agents'
offices for six months, beating vainly at the door of opportunity. Finally she got a chance
to understudy Elsie De Wolfe, who was playing with John Drew, in "The Bauble Shop," at the
Empire. One day when that actress became ill this seventeen-year-old child played the part
of a thirty-two-year-old woman with great success. Understudies then became her fate for several
years. While playing a part on the road with her uncle in "The Squire of Dames," Charles Frohman
saw her for the first time. He looked at her sharply, but said nothing. Later, during this
engagement, she met the man who was to shape her career.

About this time Miss Barrymore went to London. Charles had accepted Haddon Chambers's play
"The Tyranny of Tears," in which John Drew was to star in America. She got the impression that
she would be cast for one of the two female parts in this play, and she studied the costuming
and other details. With eager expectancy she called on Frohman in London. Much to her surprise
Frohman said:

"Well, Ethel, what can I do for you?"

"Won't I play with Uncle John?" she said.

"No, I am sorry to say you will not," replied Frohman.

This was a tragic blow. It was in London that Miss Barrymore received this first great disappointment,
and it was in London that she made her first success. Charles Frohman, who from this time on
became much impressed with her appealing charm and beauty, gave her a small rôle with the company
he sent over with Gillette to play "Secret Service" in the British capital. Odette Tyler played
the leading comedy part. One night when Miss Barrymore was standing in the wings the stage-manager
rushed up to her and said, excitedly:

"You will have to play Miss Tyler's part."

"But I don't know her lines," said Miss Barrymore.

"That makes no difference; you will have to play. She's gone home sick."

"How about her costume?" said Miss Barrymore.

"Miss Tyler was so ill that we could not ask her to change her costume. She wore it away with
her," was the reply.

Dressed as she was, Miss Barrymore, who had watched the play carefully, and who has an extremely
good memory, walked on, played the part, and made a hit.

When the "Secret Service" company returned to America, Miss Barrymore remained in London. She
lived in a small room alone. Her funds were low and she had only one evening gown. But she
had the Barrymore wit and charm, her own beauty, and was in much social demand. By the time
she prepared to quit England the one gown had seen its best days. She had arranged to sail
for home on a certain Saturday. The night before sailing she was invited to a supper at the
home of Anthony Hope. Just as she was about to dress she received a telegram from Ellen Terry,
who was playing at the Lyceum Theater, saying:

    Do come and say good-by before you go.

When she arrived at the Lyceum, the first thing that Miss Terry said was, "Sir Henry wants
to say good-by to you."

On going into the adjoining dressing-room the great actor said to her:

"Wouldn't you like to stay in England?"

"Of course," said Miss Barrymore.

"Would you like to play with me?" he asked.

Coining at her hour of discouragement and despair, it was like manna from heaven. Her knees
quaked, but she managed to say, "Y-e-s."

"All right," said Sir Henry. "Go down-stairs. Loveday has a contract that is ready for you
to sign."

With this precious contract stuffed into her bosom, Miss Barrymore now rode in triumph to the
Hope supper-party.

"What a pity that you have got to leave England," said Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree.

"But I am going to stay," said Miss Barrymore.

A gasp ran around the table.

"And with whom?" asked Tree.

"With Sir Henry and Miss Terry," was the proud response.

Miss Barrymore played that whole season most acceptably with Irving and Terry in "The Bells"
and "Waterloo," and afterward with Henry B. Irving in "Peter the Great."

When she returned to America in 1898 she had a new interest for Charles Frohman. Yet the Nemesis
of the Understudy, which had pursued her in America, still held her in its grip, for she was
immediately cast as understudy for Ida Conquest in a play called "Catherine" that Frohman was
about to produce at the Garrick Theater. She had several opportunities, however, to play the
leading part, and at her every appearance she was greeted most enthusiastically. Her youth
and appealing beauty never failed to get over the footlights.

Frohman was always impressed by this sort of thing. It was about this time that he said to
a friend of his.

"There is going to be a big development in one of my companies before long. There's a daughter
of 'Barry' [meaning Maurice Barrymore] who gets a big reception wherever she goes. She has
got the real stuff in her."

Miss Barrymore's first genuine opportunity came when Charles cast her for the part of Stella
De Gex in Marshall's delightful comedy "His Excellency the Governor," which was first put on
at the Empire in May, 1899. The grace and sprightliness that were later to bloom so delightfully
in Miss Barrymore now found their first real expression. Both in New York and on the road she
made a big success.

While rehearsing "His Excellency the Governor," Charles sat in the darkened auditorium of the
Empire one day. When the performance was over he walked back on the stage and, patting Miss
Barrymore on the shoulder, said:

"You're so much like your mother, Ethel. You're all right."

Frohman was not the type of man to lag in interest. He realized what the girl's possibilities
were, so early in 1901 he sent for Miss Barrymore and said to her:

"Ethel, I have a nice part for you at last."

It was the rôle of Madame Trentoni in Clyde Fitch's charming play of old New York, "Captain
Jinks." Now came one of those curious freaks of theatrical fortune. "Captain Jinks" opened
at the Walnut Street Theater in Philadelphia, and seemed to be a complete failure from the
start. Although the Quakers did not like the play, they evinced an enormous interest in the
lovely leading woman. From the gallery they cried down:

"We loved your grandmother, Ethel, and we love you."

It was a tribute to the place that Mrs. John Drew had in the affections of those staid theater-goers.

Despite the bad start in Philadelphia, Charles believed in Miss Barrymore, and he had confidence
in "Captain Jinks." He brought the play into New York at the Garrick. The expectation was that
it might possibly run two weeks. Instead, it remained there for seven months and then played
a complete season on the road.

Now came the turn in the tide of Ethel Barrymore's fortunes. She was living very modestly on
the top floor of a theatrical boarding-house in Thirty-second Street. With the success of "Captain
Jinks" she moved down to a larger room on the second floor. But a still greater event in her
life was now to be consummated.

During the third week of the engagement she walked over from Thirty-second Street to the theater.
As she passed along Sixth Avenue she happened to look up, and there, in huge, blazing electric
lights, she saw the name "Ethel Barrymore." She stood still, and the tears came to her eyes.
She knew that at last she had become a star.

Charles had said absolutely nothing about it to her. It was his unexpected way of giving her
the surprise of arriving at the goal of her ambition.

The next day she went to Frohman and said, "It was a wonderful thing for you to do."

Whereupon Frohman replied, very simply, "It was the only thing to do."

Ethel Barrymore was now a star, and from this time on her stage career became one cycle of
ripening art and expanding success. A new luminary had entered the Frohman heaven, and it was
to twinkle with increasing brilliancy.

Her next appearance was in a double bill, "A Country Mouse" and "Carrots," at the Savoy Theater,
in October, 1902. Here came one of the first evidences of her versatility. "A Country Mouse"
was a comedy; "Carrots," on the other hand, was impregnated with the deepest tragedy. Miss
Barrymore played the part of a sad little boy, and she did it with such depth of feeling that
discriminating people began to realize that she had great emotional possibilities.

Her appearance in "Cousin Kate" the next year was a return to comedy. In this play Bruce McRae
made his first appearance with her as leading man, and he filled this position for a number
of years. He was as perfect an opposite to her as was John Drew to Ada Rehan. Together they
made a combination that was altogether delightful.

It was while playing in a piece called "Sunday" that Miss Barrymore first read Ibsen's "A Doll's
House." She was immensely thrilled by the character. She said to Frohman at once: "I must do
this part. May I?"

"Of course," he said.

Here was another revelation of the Barrymore versatility, for she invested this strange, weird
expression of Ibsen's genius with a range of feeling and touch of character that made a deep
impression.

Charles now secured the manuscript of "Alice-Sit-By-The-Fire." He was immensely taken with
this play, not only because it was by his friend Barrie, but because he saw in it large possibilities.
Miss Barrymore was with him in London at this time. Frohman told her the story of the play
in his rooms at the Savoy, acting it out as he always did with his plays. There were two important
women characters: the mother, played in London by Ellen Terry, who philosophically accepts
the verdict of the years, and the daughter, played by the popular leading woman Irene Vanbrugh,
who steps into her place.

"Would you like to play in 'Alice'?" asked Frohman.

"Yes," said Miss Barrymore.

"Which part?"

"I would rather have you say," said Miss Barrymore.

Just then the telephone-bell rang. Barrie had called up Frohman to find out if he had cast
the play.

"I was just talking it over with Miss Barrymore," he replied.

Then there was a pause. Suddenly Frohman turned from the telephone and said:

"Barrie wants you to play the mother."

"Fine!" said Miss Barrymore. "That is just the part I wanted to do."

In "Alice-Sit-By-The-Fire" Miss Barrymore did a very daring thing. Here was an exquisite young
woman who was perfectly willing to play the part of the mother of a boy of eighteen rather
than the younger rôle, and she did it with such artistic distinction that Barrie afterward
said of her:

"I knew I was right when I wanted her to play the mother. I felt that she would understand
the part."

"Alice-Sit-By-The-Fire" was done as a double bill with "Pantaloon," in which Miss Barrymore's
brother, John Barrymore, who was now coming to be recognized as a very gifted young actor,
scored a big success. Later another brother, Lionel, himself a brilliant son of his father,
appeared with her.

The theater-going world was now beginning to look upon Ethel Barrymore as one of the really
charming fixtures of the stage. What impressed every one, most of all Charles Frohman, was
the extraordinary ease with which she fairly leaped from lightsome comedy to deep and haunting
pathos. Her work in "The Silver Box," by John Galsworthy, was a conspicuous example of this
talent. Frohman gave the manuscript of the play to Miss Barrymore to read and she was deeply
moved by it.

"Can't we do it?" she said.

"It is very tragic," said Frohman.

"I don't mind," said Miss Barrymore. "I want to do it so much!"

In "The Silver Box" she took the part of a charwoman whose life moves in piteous tragedy. It
registered what, up to that time, was the most poignant note that this gifted young woman had
uttered. Yet the very next season she turned to a typical Clyde Fitch play, "Her Sister," and
disported herself in charming frocks and smart drawing-room conversation.

* * *

Miss Barrymore's career justified every confidence that Charles had felt for her. It remained,
however, for Pinero's superb if darksome play "Midchannel" to give her her largest opportunity.

When Frohman told her about this play he said: "Ethel, I have a big play, but it is dark and
sad. I don't think you want to do it."

After she had heard the story she said, impulsively: "You are wrong. I want to play this part
very much."

"All right," said Frohman. "Go ahead."

As Zoe Blundell she had a triumph. In this character she was artistically reborn. The sweetness
and girlishness now stood aside in the presence of a somber and haunting tragedy that was real.
Miss Barrymore literally made the critics sit up. It recorded a distinct epoch in her career,
and, as in other instances with a Pinero play, the American success far exceeded its English
popularity.

When Miss Barrymore did "The Twelve-Pound Look," by Barrie, the following year, she only added
to the conviction that she was in many respects the most versatile and gifted of the younger
American actresses. Frohman loved "The Twelve-Pound Look" as he loved few plays. Its only rival
in his regard was "Peter Pan." He went to every rehearsal, he saw it at every possible opportunity.
Like most others, he realized that into this one act of intense life was crowded all the human
drama, all the human tragedy.

Miss Barrymore now sped from grave to gay. When the time came for her to rehearse Barrie's
fascinating skit, "A Slice of Life," Frohman was ill at the Knickerbocker Hotel. He was very
much interested in this little play, so the rehearsals were held in his rooms at the hotel.
There were only three people in the cast--Miss Barrymore, her brother John, and Hattie Williams.
It was so excruciatingly funny that Frohman would often call up the Empire and say:

"Send Ethel over to rehearse. I want to forget my pains."

Charles Frohman lived to see his great expectations of Ethel Barrymore realized. He found her
the winsome slip of a fascinating girl; he last beheld her in the full flower of her maturing
art. He was very much interested in her transition from the seriousness of "The Shadow" into
the wholesome humor and womanliness of "Our Mrs. McChesney," a part he had planned for her
before his final departure. It was one of the many swift changes that Miss Barrymore has made,
and had he lived he would have found still another cause for infinite satisfaction with her.

* * *

Another star now swam into the Frohman ken. This was the way of it:

Paul Potter was making a periodical visit to New York in 1901. David Belasco came to see him
at the Holland House.

"Paul," said he, "C. F. and I want you to make us a version of Ouida's 'Under Two Flags' for
Blanche Bates."

"I never read the novel," said Potter.

"You can dramatize it without reading it," remarked Belasco, and in a month he was sitting
in Frohman's rooms at Sherry's and Potter was reading to them his dramatization of "Under Two
Flags," throwing in, for good measure, a ride from "Mazeppa" and a snow-storm from "The Queen
of Sheba."

"I like all but the last scene," said Frohman. "When Cigarette rides up those mountains with
her lover's pardon, the pardon is, to all intents and purposes, delivered. The actual delivery
is an anti-climax. What the audience want to see is a return to the garret where the lovers
lived and were happy."

As they walked home that night Belasco said to Potter:

"That was a great point which C. F. made. What remarkable intuition he has!"

Frohman and Potter used to watch Belasco at work, teaching the actors to act, the singers to
sing, the dancers to dance.

Then came a hitch.

"Gros, our scene-painter," said Frohman, "maintains that Cigarette couldn't ride up any mountains
near the Algerian coast, for the nearest mountains are the Atlas Mountains, eight hundred miles
away."

He undertook to convert Mr. Gros. Fortunately for him the author of the play stood in the Garden
Theater while Belasco was rehearsing a dance.

"Oh," said he, "if it's a comic opera you can have all the mountains you please. I thought
it was a serious drama."

Then Frohman ventured to criticize the mountain torrent.

"What's the matter with the torrent?" called Belasco, while Cigarette and her horse stood on
the slope.

"It doesn't look like water at all," said Frohman.

Just then the horse plunged his nose into the torrent and licked it furiously. Criticism was
silenced. The play was a big, popular success, and with it Blanche Bates arrived as star.

One day, a year later, Frohman remarked to Potter in Paris, "What do you say to paying Ouida
a visit in Florence?"

He and Belasco had paid her considerable royalties. He thought she would be gratified by a
friendly call. Frohman and Potter obtained letters of introduction from bankers, consuls, and
Florentine notables, and sent them in advance to Ouida. The landlord of the inn gave them a
resplendent two-horse carriage, with a liveried coachman and a footman. Frohman objected to
the footman as undemocratic. The landlord insisted that it was Florentine etiquette, and shrugged
his shoulders when they departed, seeming to think that they were bound on a perilous journey.

Through the perfumed, flower-laden hills they climbed, the Arno gleaming below. The footman
took in their cards to the villa of Mlle. de la Ramée. He promptly returned.

"The signora is indisposed," he remarked.

The visitors sent him back to ask if they might come some other day. Again he returned.

"The signora is indisposed," was the only answer he could get.

Potter and Frohman drove away. Frohman was hurt. He did not try to conceal it.

"That's the first author," he said, "who ever turned me down. Anyway, the pancakes at lunch
were delicious." He met rebuff--as he met loss--with infinite humor.

* * *

Stars now crowded quick and fast into the Frohman firmament. Next came Virginia Harned. Daniel
Frohman had seen her in a traveling company at the Fourteenth Street Theater and engaged her
to support E. H. Sothern. She later came under Charles's control, and he presented her as star
in "Alice of Old Vincennes," "Iris," and "The Light that Lies in Woman's Eyes."

Effie Shannon and Herbert Kelcey followed. Their first venture with him, "Manon Lescaut," was
a direful failure, but it was followed up with "My Lady Dainty," which was a success.

Charles Frohman had various formulas for making stars. Some he discovered outright, others
he developed. Here is an example of his Christopher Columbus proclivities:

One day he heard that there was a very brilliant young Hungarian actor playing a small part
down at the Irving Place German Theater in New York City. He went to see him, was very much
impressed with his ability, sent for him, and said:

"If you will study English I will agree to take care of you on the English-speaking stage."

The man assented, and Frohman paid him a salary all the while he was studying English. Before
many years he was a well-known star. His name was Leo Ditrichstein.

Frohman now got Ditrichstein to adapt "Are You a Mason?" from the German, put it on at Wallack's
Theater, and it was a huge success. Besides Ditrichstein, this cast, which was a very notable
one, included John C. Rice, Thomas W. Wise, May Robson, Arnold Daly, Cecil De Mille, and Sallie
Cohen, who had played Topsy in the stranded "Uncle Tom's Cabin" Company, whose advance fortunes
Frohman had piloted in his precarious days on the road.

Just as Frohman led the American invasion in England, so did he now bring about the English
invasion of America. He had inaugurated it with Olga Nethersole. He now introduced to American
theater-goers such artists as Charles Hawtrey, Mrs. Patrick Campbell, Charles Warner, Sir Charles
Wyndham, Mary Moore, Marie Tempest, and Fay Davis, in whose career he was enormously interested.
He starred Miss Davis in a group of plays ranging from "Lady Rose's Daughter" to "The House
of Mirth."

In connection with Mrs. Campbell's first tour occurred another one of the famous Frohman examples
of quick retort. He was rehearsing this highly temperamental lady, and made a constructive
criticism which nettled her very much. She became indignant, called him to the footlights,
and said:

"I want you to know that I am an artist?"

Frohman, with solemn face, instantly replied:

"Madam, I will keep your secret."

One of the early English importations revealed Frohman's utterly uncommercialized attitude
toward the theater. He was greatly taken with the miracle play "Everyman," and brought over
Edith Wynne Mathison and Charles Rann Kennedy to do it. He was unable to get a theater, so
he put them in Mendelssohn Hall.

"You'll make no money with them there," said a friend to him.

"I don't expect to make any," replied Frohman, "but I want the American people to see this
fine and worthy thing."

The play drew small audiences for some time. Then, becoming the talk of the town, it went on
tour and repaid him with a profit on his early loss.

* * *

One of the happiest of Charles Frohman's theatrical associations now developed. In 1903, when
the famous Weber and Fields organization seemed to be headed toward dissolution, Charles Dillingham
suggested to Willie Collier that he go under the Frohman management. Collier went to the Empire
Theater and was ushered into Frohman's office.

"It took you a long time to get up here," said the magnate. "How would you like to go under
my management?"

"Well," replied Collier, with his usual humor, "I didn't come up here to buy a new hat."

The result was that Collier became a Frohman star and remained one for eleven years. He and
Frohman were constantly exchanging witty telegrams and letters. Frohman sent Collier to Australia.
At San Francisco the star encountered the famous earthquake. He wired Frohman:

"San Francisco has just had the biggest opening in its history."

Whereupon Frohman, who had not yet learned the full extent of the calamity, wired back:

"Don't like openings with so many 'dead-heads.'"

* * *

All the while, William Gillette had been thriving as a Frohman star. Like many other serious
actors, he had an ambition to play Hamlet. With Frohman the wishes of his favorite stars were
commands, so he proceeded to make ready a production. Suddenly Barrie's remarkable play "The
Admirable Crichton" fell into his hands. He sent for Gillette and said:

"Gillette, I am perfectly willing that you should play Hamlet, but I have just got from Barrie
the ideal play for you."

When Gillette read "The Admirable Crichton," he agreed with Frohman, and out of it developed
one of his biggest successes. "Hamlet," with its elaborate production, still awaits Gillette.

* * *

In presenting Clara Bloodgood as star in Clyde Fitch's play "The Girl with the Green Eyes,"
Frohman achieved another one of his many sensations. The smart, charming girl who had made
her début under sensational circumstances in "The Conquerors," now saw her name up in electric
lights for the first time. Frohman's confidence in her, as in many of his protégés, was more
than fulfilled.

* * *

Charles Frohman, who loved to dazzle the world with his Napoleonic coups, launched what was
up to this time, and which will long remain, the most spectacular of theatrical deals. He greatly
admired E. H. Sothern, who had been associated with him in some of his early ventures. The
years that Julia Marlowe had played under his joint management had endeared her to him. One
day he had an inspiration. There had been no big Shakespearian revival for some time, so he said:

"Why not unite Sothern and Marlowe and tour the country in a series of magnificent Shakespearian
productions?"

At that time Julia Marlowe had reverted to the control of Charles Dillingham, while Sothern
was still under the management of Daniel Frohman. Charles now brought the stars together, offered
them a guarantee of $5,000 a week for a forty weeks' engagement and for three seasons. In other
words, he pledged these two stars the immense sum of $200,000 for each season, which was beyond
doubt the largest guarantee of the kind ever made in the history of the American theater.

It was just about this time that Joseph Humphreys, Frohman's seasoned general stage-manager,
succumbed to the terrific strain under which he had worked all these years, as both actor and
producer. William Seymour stepped into his shoes, and has retained that position ever since.

Charles was constantly bringing about revolutions. Through him Francis Wilson, for example,
departed from musical comedy, in which he had made a great success, and took up straight plays.
He began with Clyde Fitch's French adaptation of "Cousin Billy," and thus commenced a connection
under Charles Frohman that lasted many years. With him, as with all his other stars, there
was never a scrap of paper.

Frohman and Wilson met at the Savoy Hotel in London one day. Frohman had often urged him to
quit musical comedy, and he now said he was ready to make the plunge.

"All right," said Frohman. "I will give you so much a week and a percentage of the profits."

"It's done," said Wilson.

"Do you want a contract?" asked Frohman.

"No."

This was about all that ever happened in the way of arrangements between Frohman and his stars,
to some of whom he paid fortunes.

During these years Charles had watched with growing interest the development of a young girl
from Bloomington, Illinois, Margaret Illington by name. She had appeared successfully in the
old Lyceum Stock Company when it was transferred by Daniel Frohman to Daly's, and had played
with James K. Hackett and E. H. Sothern. Charles now cast her in Pinero's play "A Wife Without
a Smile." Afterward she appeared in Augustus Thomas's piece "Mrs. Leffingwell's Boots," and
made such a strong impression that Frohman made her leading woman with John Drew in Pinero's
"His House in Order."

Just about this time Charles, whose interest in French plays had constantly increased through
the years, singled out Henri Bernstein as the foremost of the younger French playwrights. He
secured his remarkable play "The Thief" for America. He now produced this play at the Lyceum
with Miss Illington and Kyrle Bellew as co-stars, and it proved to be an enormous success,
continuing there for a whole season, and then duplicating its triumph on the road, where Frohman
at one time had four companies playing it in various parts of the country.

XI

THE CONQUEST OF THE LONDON STAGE

Great as were Charles Frohman's achievements in America, they were more than matched in many
respects by his activities in England. He was the one American manager who made an impress
on the British drama; he led the so-called "American invasion." As a matter of fact, he was
the invasion. No phase of his fascinatingly crowded and adventurous career reflects so much
of the genius of the man, or reveals so many of his finer qualities, as his costly attempt
to corner the British stage. Here, as in no other work, he showed himself in really Napoleonic
proportions.

Behind Charles's tremendous operations in London were three definite motives. First of all,
he really loved England. He felt that the theater there had a dignity and a distinction far
removed from theatrical production in America. There was no sneer of "commercialism" about
it. To be identified with the stage in England was something to be proud of. He often said
that he would rather make fifteen pounds in London than fifteen thousand dollars in America.
It summed up his whole attitude toward the theater in Great Britain.

In the second place, he knew that a strong footing in England was absolutely necessary to a
mastery of the situation in America. Just as important as any of his other reasons was the
conviction in his own mind that to produce the best English-speaking plays in the United States
he must know English playwrights and English authors on their own ground, and to produce, if
possible, their own works on their home stages.

This latter desire led him to the long and brilliant series of productions that he made in
London, and which amounted to what later became an almost complete monopoly on British dramatic
output for the United States.

The net result was that he became a sort of Colossus of the English-speaking theater. Figuratively,
he stood astride the mighty sea in which he was to meet his death, with one foot planted securely
in England and the other in New York.

* * *

Charles's first visits to England were made in the most unostentatious way, largely to look
over the ground and see what he could pick up for America. His first offices in Henrietta Street
were very modest rooms. Unpretentious as they were, they represented a somewhat historic step,
because Frohman was absolutely the first American manager to set up a business in England.
Augustin Daly had taken over a company, but he allied himself in no general way with British
theatrical interests.

When Frohman first engaged W. Lestocq as his English manager, as has already been recorded,
he made a significant remark:

"You know I am coming into London to produce plays. But I am coming in by the back door. I
shall get to the front door, however, and you shall come with me."

No sooner had he set foot in London than his productive activities were turned loose. With
A. and S. Gatti he put on one of his New York successes, "The Lost Paradise," at the Adelphi
Theater. In this instance he merely furnished the play. It failed, however. Far from discouraging
Frohman, it only filled him with a desire to do something big.

This play marked the beginning of one of his most important English connections. The Gattis,
as they were known in England, were prominent figures in the British theater. They were Swiss-Italians
who had begun life in England as waiters, had established a small eating-house, and had risen
to become the most important restaurateurs of the British capital. They became large realty-owners,
spread out to the theater, and acquired the Adelphi and the Vaudeville.

Charles Frohman's arrangement with them was typical of all his business transactions. Some
years afterward a well-known English playwright asked Stephen Gatti:

"What is your contract with Frohman?"

"We have none. When we want an agreement from Charles Frohman about a business transaction
it is time to stop," was his reply.

With the production of a French farce called "A Night Out," which was done at the Vaudeville
Theater in 1896, Frohman began his long and intimate association with George Edwardes. This
man's name was synonymous with musical comedy throughout the amusement world. As managing director
of the London Gaiety Theater, the most famous musical theater anywhere, he occupied a unique
position. Charles was the principal American importer of the Gaiety shows, and through this
and various other connections he had much to do with Edwardes.

Frohman and Edwardes were the joint producers of "A Night Out," and it brought to Charles his
first taste of London success. This was the only play in London in which he ever sold his interest.
Out of this sale grew a curious example of Frohman's disregard of money. For his share he received
a check of four figures. He carried it around in his pocket for weeks. After it had become
all crumpled up, Lestocq persuaded him to deposit it in the bank. Only when the check was almost
reduced to shreds did he consent to open an account with it.

* * *

It remained for an American play, presenting an American star, to give Charles his first real
triumph in London. With the production of "Secret Service," in 1897, at the Adelphi Theater,
he became the real envoy from the New World of plays to the Old. It was an ambassadorship that
gave him an infinite pride, for it brought fame and fortune to the American playwright and
the American actor abroad. Frohman's envoyship was as advantageous to England as it was to
the United States, because he was the instrument through which the best of the modern English
plays and the most brilliant of the modern English actors found their hearing on this side
of the water.

Frohman was immensely interested in the English production of "Secret Service." Gillette himself
headed the company. Both he and Frohman were in a great state of expectancy. The play hung
fire until the third act. When the big scene came British reserve melted and there was a great
ovation. It was an immediate success and had a long run.

One feature of the play that amused the critics and theater-goers generally in London was the
fact that the spy in "Secret Service," who was supposed to be the bad man of the play, received
all the sympathy and the applause, while the hero was arrested and always had the worst of
it, even when he was denouncing the spy. Gillette's quiet but forceful style of acting was
a revelation to the Londoners.

It was during this engagement that an intimate friend said to Terriss, the great English actor
who was distinguished for his impulsiveness:

"Chain yourself to a seat at the Adelphi some night and learn artistic repose from Gillette."

Concerning the first night of "Secret Service" is another one of the many Frohman stories.
When a London newspaper man asked the American manager about the magnificent celebration that
he was sure had been held to commemorate Gillette's triumph, Frohman said:

"There was nothing of the sort. Mr. Dillingham, my manager, and I joined Mr. Gillette in his
rooms at the Savoy. We had some sandwiches and wine and then played 'hearts' for several hours."

This episode inspired Frohman to give utterance to what was the very key-note of his philosophy
about an actor and his work. Talking with a friend in England shortly after the opening of
"Secret Service," about the modest way in which Gillette regarded his success, he said:

"Nothing so kills the healthy growth of an actor and brings his usefulness to an end so soon,
as the idea that social enjoyment is a means to public success, and that industrious labor
to improve himself is no longer necessary."

Frohman always regarded the success of "Secret Service" as the corner-stone of his great achievements
in England. Once, in speaking of this star's hit, he said:

"You know, what tickles me is the fact that it was left for England to discover that Gillette
is a great actor. It's one on America."

* * *

A few years later, Frohman made his first Paris production with "Secret Service." The masterful
little man always regarded the world as his field; hence the annexation of Paris. He had a
version made by Paul de Decourcelle, and the play was put on at the Renaissance Theater. Guitry,
the great French actor, played Gillette's part. A very brilliant audience saw the opening performance,
but the French did not get the atmosphere of the play. They could not determine whether it
was serious or comic. The character of General Nelson was almost entirely omitted in the play
because the actors themselves could not tell whether it was humor or tragedy. Besides, the
French actors wanted to do it their own way.

Dillingham, who had charge of the production in Paris, realizing on the opening night that
it would be a failure, and knowing that he had to send Frohman some sort of telegram, cabled,
with his customary humor, the following:

     The tomb of Napoleon looks beautiful in the moonlight.

As was the case in England, Charles was the only American manager who made any impression upon
the French drama. From his earliest producing days he had a weakness for producing adapted
French plays. From France came some of his hugest successes, especially those of Bernstein.
He "bulled" the French market on prices. The French playwright hailed him with joy, for he
always left a small fortune behind him.

Having established a precedent with Gillette, he now presented his first American woman star
in England. It was Annie Russell in Bret Harte's story "Sue." He was very fond of this play,
having already produced it in the United States, and he was very proud of the impression that
Miss Russell made in London.

* * *

Up to this time Frohman had made his English productions in conjunction with the Gattis or
George Edwardes at the Adelphi, the Vaudeville, or the Garrick theaters. This would have satisfied
most people. But Frohman, who wanted to do things in a big way, naturally desired his own English
theater, where he could unfurl his own banner and do as he pleased.

Early in 1897, therefore, he took what was up to that time his biggest English step, for he
leased the Duke of York's Theater for nineteen years. His name went over the doorway and from
that time on this theater was the very nerve-center, if not the soul, of Charles Frohman's
English operations. It was one of the best known and the most substantial of British playhouses,
located in St. Martin's Lane, in the very heart of the theatrical district. He took a vast
pride in his control of it. He even emblazoned the announcement of his London management on
the walls of the Empire on Broadway in New York. In his affections it was in England what the
Empire was to him in America. It was destined to be the background of his distinguished artistic
endeavors, perhaps the most distinguished.

Charles now embarked on a sea of lavish productions. Typical of his attitude was his employment
of the best-known and highest-salaried producer in London. This man was Dion Boucicault, son
of the famous playwright of the same name, who was himself a very finished and versatile actor.
He gave the Frohman productions a touch of genuine distinction, and his wife, the accomplished
Irene Vanbrugh, added much to the attractiveness of the Frohman ventures.

The Frohman sponsorship of the Duke of York's was celebrated with a magnificent production
of Anthony Hope's "The Adventure of Lady Ursula," which had been a success in New York with
E. H. Sothern. It ran the entire season. The play was put on in the usual Frohman way, so much
so that the British critics said that "the production, from first to last, was correct down
to a coat-button."

Until the end of his life the Duke of York's Theater had a large place in his heart. At the
back of private box F, which was his own box, and which was also used for royalty when it visited
the play, was a comfortable retiring-room, charmingly decorated in red. Here Frohman loved
to sit and entertain his friends, especially such close intimates as Sir James M. Barrie, Haddon
Chambers, Sir Arthur Pinero, Henry Arthur Jones, Michael Morton, and other English playwrights.

These busy days at the Duke of York's furnished Frohman with many amusing episodes. On one
occasion he was caught in the self-operating elevator of the theater and was kept a prisoner
in it for over an hour. His employees were in consternation. When he was finally extricated
they began to apologize most profusely.

"Nonsense!" said Frohman. "I am glad I got stuck. It's the first vacation I have had in two years."

The lobby of the Duke of York's illustrates one of Charles's distinctive ideas. Instead of
ornamenting it with pictures of dead dramatic heroes like Shakespeare and Garrick, he filled
it with photographs of his live American stars. The English theater-goers who went there saw
huge portraits of Maude Adams, Ethel Barrymore, Marie Doro, John Drew, Otis Skinner, and William
Gillette.

On one occasion he was held up at the entrance of the Duke of York's by a new doorkeeper who
asked for his ticket.

"I am Frohman," said the manager.

"Can't help it, sir; you've got to have a ticket."

"You're quite right," said Frohman, who went to the box-office and bought himself a stall seat.
When the house-manager, James W. Matthews, threatened to discharge the doorkeeper, Frohman said:

"Certainly not. The man was obeying orders. If he had done otherwise you should have discharged
him."

Frohman so loved the Duke of York's that he would go back to it and witness the same play twenty
times. During his last visit to England, when his right knee was troubling him, he telephoned
down one night to have his box reserved. Matthews, to spare him any trouble, had a little platform
built so that he would not have to walk up the steps. Two weeks later, Frohman again telephoned
that he wanted the box held, and added:

"I am better now. Don't bother to build a theater for me."

Curiously enough, the first failure that Charles had at the Duke of York's was "The Christian,"
which had scored such an enormous success in America. But failure only spurred him on to further
efforts. When an English friend condoled with him about his loss on this occasion he said:

"Forget it. Don't let's revive the past. Let's get busy and pulverize the future."

* * *

To the average mind the extent of Frohman's London productions is amazing. When the simple
fact is stated that he made one hundred and twenty-five of these, one obtains at a glance the
immense scope of the man's operations there. Many of them stand out brilliantly. Early among
them was the Frohman-Belasco presentation of Mrs. Leslie Carter in two of her greatest successes
at the Garrick Theater.

The first was "The Heart of Maryland." It was during this engagement that Charles bought the
English rights to "Zaza," then a sensational success in Paris. It was his original intention
to star Julia Marlowe in this play. When Belasco heard of the play he immediately saw it was
an ideal vehicle for Mrs. Carter, and Frohman generously turned it over to him. After its great
triumph in the United States, Frohman and Belasco produced "Zaza" in London.

It was a huge success and made the kind of sensation in which Frohman delighted. There was
much question as to its propriety, so much so that the Lord Chamberlain himself, who supervised
the censorship, came and witnessed the performance. He made no objection, however.

An amusing incident, which shows the extraordinary devotion of Charles Frohman's friends, occurred
on the first night. While attending the rehearsals at the Garrick, Frohman caught cold and
went to bed with a slight attack of pneumonia. On the inaugural night he lay bedridden. He
was so eager for news of the play that he said to Dillingham:

"Send me all the news you can."

Dillingham organized a bicycle service, and every fifteen minutes sent encouraging and cheering
bulletins to Frohman, who was so elated that he was able to emerge from bed the next morning
a well man.

Now the interesting thing about this episode is that Dillingham fabricated most of the messages,
because, until the end of the play and for several days thereafter, its success was very much
in doubt. Indeed, it took more than a week for it to "catch on."

Charles followed up "Zaza" with a superb production of "Madame Butterfly," in which he used
Belasco's beautiful equipment. This production put the artistic seal on Frohman's achievement
as a London manager. Up to this time there were some who believed that, despite the lavishness
of his policy, there was the germ of the commercial in him. "Madame Butterfly" removed this,
but if there had been any doubt remaining, it would have been wiped out by his exquisite presentation
of "The First Born." Associated with this play is a story that shows Frohman's dogged determination
and resource.

Belasco had made the production of "The First Born" in America in lavish fashion. He brought
to it all his love and knowledge of Chinese art.

A rival manager, W. A. Brady, wishing to emulate the success of "The First Born," got together
a production of "The Cat and the Cherub," another Chinese play, and secured time in London,
hoping to beat Frohman out. It now became a race between Frohman and Brady for the first presentation
in London. Both managers were in America. Brady got his production off first. When Frohman
heard of it he said:

"We must be in London first."

"But there are no sailings for a week," said one of his staff.

"Then we will hire a boat," was his retort.

However, there proved to be no need for this enterprise, because a regular sailing developed.

"The Cat and the Cherub" won the race across the Atlantic and was produced first. It took the
edge off the novelty of "The First Born," which was a failure, but its fine quality gave Charles
the premier place as an artistic producer in England, and he never regretted having made the
attempt despite the loss.

Frohman became immersed in a multitude of things. In September, 1901, for example, he was interested
in five English playhouses--the Aldwych, the Shaftesbury, the Vaudeville, and the Criterion,
as well as the Duke of York's. He had five different plays going at the same time--"Sherlock
Holmes," "Are You a Mason?" "Bluebell in Fairyland," "The Twin Sister," and "The Girl from
Maxim's." This situation was typical of his English activities from that time until his death.

* * *

The picturesqueness of detail which seemed to mark the beginning of so many of Charles Frohman's
personal and professional friendships attended him in England, as the case of his first experience
with Edna May shows.

One hot night late in the summer season of 1900 Frohman was having supper alone on his little
private balcony at the Savoy Hotel overlooking the Thames. It was before the Strand wing of
the hostelry had been built. As he sat there, clad only in pajamas and smoking a large black
cigar, he heard a terrific din on the street below. There was cheering, shouting, and clapping
of hands. Summoning a waiter, he asked:

"What's all that noise about?"

"Oh, it's only Miss Edna May coming to supper, sir."

"Why all this fuss?" continued Frohman.

"Well, you see, sir," answered the servant, "they are bringing her back in triumph."

When Frohman made investigation he found that the doctors and nurses at the Middlesex Hospital
in London, where Edna May frequently sang for the patients, had engaged the whole gallery of
the Shaftesbury Theater where she was singing in "The American Beauty," and attended in a body.
After the play they had surrounded her at the stage entrance, unhitched the horse from her
little brougham, and hauled her through the streets to the Savoy.

This episode made a tremendous impression on Frohman. He was always drawn to the people who
could create a stir. He had heard that Edna May was nearing the end of her contract with George
Lederer, so he entered into negotiations with her, and that autumn she passed under his management
and remained so until she retired in 1907.

In the case of Edna May there could be no star-making. The spectacular rise of this charming
girl from the chorus to the most-talked-of musical comedy rôle in the English-speaking world--that
of the Salvation Army girl in "The Belle of New York"--had given her a great reputation. Frohman
now capitalized that reputation in his usual elaborate fashion. He first presented Miss May
in "The Girl from Up There."

She appeared under his management in various pieces, both in New York and in London. Her company
in New York included Montgomery and Stone, Dan Daly, and Virginia Earle. When he presented
Miss May at the Duke of York's in "The Girl from Up There" the result was the biggest business
that the theater had known up to that time. In succession followed "Kitty Gray," which ran
a year in London, "Three Little Maids," and "La Poupée."

All the while there was being written for Miss May a musical piece in which she was to achieve
one of her greatest successes, and which was to bring Charles into contact with another one
of his future stars. It was "The School Girl," which Frohman first did in May, 1903, in London,
and afterward put on with great success at Daly's in New York.

In the English production of this play was a petite, red-haired little girl named Billie Burke,
who sang a song called "Put Me in My Little Canoe," which became one of the hits of the play.
Frohman was immensely attracted by this girl, and afterward took her under his patronage and
she became one of his best-known stars.

Edna May, under Frohman's direction, was now perhaps the best known of the musical comedy stars
in England and America. He took keen delight in her success. In "The Catch of the Season,"
which he did at Daly's in New York in August, 1905, she practically bade farewell to the American
stage. Henceforth Frohman kept her in England. In "The Belle of Mayfair" she was succeeded
by Miss Burke in the leading part. Frohman's production of "Nelly Neil" at the Aldwych Theater
in 1907 was one of the most superb musical comedy presentations ever made. For this Frohman
imported Joseph Coyne from America to do the leading juvenile rôle. He became such a great
favorite that he has remained in England ever since.

Just as Edna May had bidden farewell to America in "The Catch of the Season," so she now bade
farewell to the English stage in "Nelly Neil." She had become engaged to Oscar Lewisohn, who
insisted on an early marriage. About this time Frohman and George Edwardes secured the English
rights to "The Merry Widow." They both urged Miss May to postpone her marriage and appear in
it. Miss May was now compelled to decide between matrimony and what would have been perhaps
her greatest success, and she chose matrimony.

Her good-by appearance on the stage, May 1, 1907, was one of the most extraordinary events
in the history of the English theater. This lovely, unassuming American girl had so completely
endeared herself to the hearts of the London theater-goers that she was made the center of
a tumultuous farewell. The day the seat-sale opened there was a queue several blocks long.
During the opening performance Charles sat in his box alone. When some friends entered he was
in tears. He had a genuine personal affection for Miss May, and her retirement touched him
very deeply.

In connection with "Nelly Neil" there is a little story which illustrates Charles's attitude
toward his productions. He had spent a fortune on "Nelly Neil," and it was not a financial
success. After giving it every chance he instructed Lestocq to put up the two weeks' notice.
Lestocq remarked that it was a shame to end such a magnificent presentation. Whereupon Frohman
turned around quickly and said:

"Shut up, or I'll run it another month. You know, Lestocq, if I don't keep a hand on myself
sometimes my sentiment will be the ruin of me."

* * *

By this time Frohman and James M. Barrie had become close friends. The manager had produced
"Quality Street" at the Vaudeville Theater with great success. He now approached a Barrie production
which gave him perhaps more pleasure than anything he did in his whole stage life. The advent
of "Peter Pan" was at hand. The remarkable story of how Charles got the manuscript of "Peter
Pan" has already been told in this biography.

The original title that Barrie gave the play was "The Great White Father," which Frohman liked.
Just as soon as Barrie suggested that it be named after its principal character, Frohman fairly
overflowed with enthusiasm. In preparing for "Peter Pan" in England, Charles was like a child
with a toy. Money was spent lavishly; whole scenes were made and never used. He regarded it
as a great and rollicking adventure.

The first production of the Barrie masterpiece on any stage took place at the Duke of York's
Theater, London, on December 27, 1904. Frohman was then in America. At his country place up
at White Plains, only his close friend, Paul Potter, with him, he eagerly awaited the verdict.
It was a bitterly cold night, and a snow-storm was raging. Frohman's secretary in the office
in New York had arranged to telephone the news of the play's reception which Lestocq was expected
to cable from London. On account of the storm the message was delayed.

Frohman was nervous. He kept on saying, "Will it never come?" His heart was bound up in the
fortunes of this beloved fairy play. While he waited with Potter, Frohman acted out the whole
play, getting down on all-fours to illustrate the dog and crocodile. He told it as Wendy would
have told it, for Wendy was one of his favorites. Finally at midnight the telephone-bell rang.
Potter took down the receiver. Frohman jumped up from his chair, saying, eagerly, "What's the
verdict?" Potter listened a moment, then turned, and with beaming face repeated Lestocq's cablegram:

     Peter Pan all right. Looks like a big success.

This was one of the happiest nights in Frohman's life.

The first Peter in England was Nina Boucicault, who played the part with great wistfulness
and charm. She was the first of a quartet which included Cissy Loftus, Pauline Chase, and Madge
Titheradge.

Charles so adored "Peter Pan" that he produced it in Paris, June 1, 1909, at the Vaudeville
Theater, with an all-English cast headed by Pauline Chase. Robb Harwood was Captain Hook, and
Sibyl Carlisle played Mrs. Darling. It was produced under the direction of Dion Boucicault.
The first presentation was a great hit, and the play ran for five weeks. On the opening night
Barrie and Frohman each had a box. Frohman was overjoyed at its success, and Barrie, naturally,
could not repress his delight. What pleased them most was the spectacle of row after row of
little French kiddies, who, while not understanding a word of the narrative, seemed to be having
the time of their lives.

From the date of its first production until his death, "Peter Pan" became a fixed annual event
in the English life of Charles Frohman. He revived it every year at holiday-time. No occasion
in his calendar was more important than the annual appearance of the fascinating boy who had
twined himself about the American manager's heart.

* * *

Charles was now a conspicuous and prominent figure in English theatrical life. The great were
his friends and his opinion was much quoted. In addition to his sole control of the Duke of
York's, he had interests in a dozen other playhouses. He liked the English way of doing business.
Yet, despite what many people believed to be a strong pro-British tendency, he was always deeply
and patriotically American, and he lost several fortunes in pioneering the American play and
the American actor in England.

To name the American plays that he produced in London would be to give almost a complete catalogue
of American drama revealed to English eyes. Curiously enough, at least two plays, "The Lion
and the Mouse" and "Paid in Full," that had made enormous successes in America, failed utterly
in England under his direction. He gave England such typically American dramas as "The Great
Divide," "Brewster's Millions," "Alias Jimmy Valentine," "Years of Discretion," "A Woman's
Way," "On the Quiet," and "The Dictator."

In addition to Gillette he presented Billie Burke in "Love Watches," William Collier in "The
Dictator" and "On the Quiet," and Ethel Barrymore in "Cynthia."

With his presentation of Collier he did one of his characteristic strokes of enterprise. Marie
Tempest was playing at the Comedy in London. He had always been anxious to try Collier's unctuous
American humor on the British, so the American comedian swapped engagements with Miss Tempest.
She came over to the Criterion in New York to do "The Freedom of Suzanne," while Collier took
her time at the Comedy in "The Dictator." He scored a great success and remained nearly a year.

* * *

The time was now ripe for the most brilliant of all the Charles Frohman achievements in England.
Had he done nothing else than the Repertory Theater he would have left for himself an imperishable
monument of artistic endeavor. The extraordinary feature of this undertaking was that it was
left for an American to finance and promote in the very cradle of the British drama the highest
and finest attempt yet made to encourage that drama. The Repertory Theater would have proclaimed
any manager the open-handed patron of drama for drama's sake.

The National or Repertory Theater idea, which was the antidote for the long run, the agency
for the production of plays that had no sustained box-office virtue, which took the speculative
feature out of production, had been preached in England for some time. Granville Barker had
tried it at the Court Theater, where the Shaw plays had been produced originally. The movement
lagged; it needed energy and money.

Barrie had been a disciple of the Repertory Theater from the start. He knew that there was
only one man in the world who could make the attempt in the right way. One day in 1909 he said
to Frohman:

"Why don't you establish a Repertory Theater?"

Then he explained in a few words what he had in mind.

Without a moment's hesitation Frohman said, briskly:

"All right, I'll do it."

With these few words he committed himself to an enterprise that cost him a fortune. But it
was an enterprise that revealed, perhaps as nothing in his career had revealed, the depths
of his artistic nature.

With his marvelous grasp of things, Frohman swiftly got at the heart of the Repertory proposition.
When he launched the enterprise at the Duke of York's he said:

     Repertory companies are usually associated in the public mind with
     the revival of old masterpieces, but if you want to know the
     character of my repertory project at the Duke of York's, I should
     describe it as the production of new plays by living authors.
     Whatever it accomplishes, it will represent the combined resources
     of actor and playwright working with each other, a combination that
     seems to me to represent the most necessary foundation of any
     theatrical success.

Frohman stopped at nothing in carrying out the Repertory Theater idea. He engaged Granville
Barker to produce most of the plays. Barker in turn surrounded himself with a superb group
of players. The most brilliant of the stage scenic artists in England, headed by Norman Wilkinson,
were engaged to design the scenes. Every possible detail that money could buy was lavished
on this project.

The result was a series of plays that set a new mark for English production, that put stimulus
behind the so-called "unappreciated" play, and gave the English-speaking drama something to
talk about--and to remember. The mere unadorned list of the plays produced is impressive. They
were "Justice," by John Galsworthy; "Misalliance," by Bernard Shaw; "Old Friends" and the "The
Twelve-Pound Look," by James M. Barrie; "The Sentimentalists," by George Meredith; "Madras
House," by Granville Barker; "Chains," by Elizabeth Baker; "Prunella," by Lawrence Housman
and Granville Barker; "Helena's Path," by Anthony Hope and Cosmo Gordon Lenox, and a revival
of "Trelawney of the Wells," by Sir Arthur Pinero.

The way "The Twelve-Pound Look" came to be produced is interesting. When the repertory for
the theater was being discussed one day by Barrie and Barker at the former's flat in Adelphi
Terrace House, Barker said:

"Haven't you got a one-act play that we could do?"

Barrie thought a moment, scratched his head, and said:

"I think I wrote one about six months ago when I was recovering from malaria. You might find
it somewhere in that desk." He pointed toward the flat-top table affair on which he had written
"The Little Minister" and "Peter Pan."

Barker rummaged around through the drawers and finally found a manuscript written in Barrie's
hieroglyphic hand. It was "The Twelve-Pound Look."

The production of "Justice" was generally regarded in England as the finest example of stage
production that has been made within the last twenty-five years. Despite the expense, and the
fact that Frohman insisted upon making each play a splendid production, the Repertory Theater
prospered. It ran from February 21, 1910, until the middle of May. Its run was temporarily
terminated by the death of King Edward VII., and it was impossible to revive the project successfully
after the formal period of mourning closed.

* * *

Frohman's constantly widening activities in London made it necessary for him to have more spacious
quarters. The story of his offices really tells the story of his work, for they increased in
scope as his operations widened. When he leased the Aldwych Theater he set up his headquarters
there. With the acquisition of the Globe he needed more room, and this theater became the seat
of his managerial operations. In 1913, and with characteristic lavishness, he engaged what
is perhaps the finest suite of theatrical offices in London. They were in a marble structure
known as Trafalgar House, in Waterloo Place, one of the choicest and most expensive locations
in the city.

Here he had a suite of six rooms. Like the man himself, his own personal quarters were very
simple. There was a long, high-ceiled room, with a roll-top desk, which was never used, at
one end, and a low morris-chair at the other. From this morris-chair and from his rooms at
the Savoy Hotel he ruled his English realm.

Charles's love for his stars never lagged, and wherever it was possible for him to surround
himself with their pictures he did so. As a result, the visitor to his London rooms found him
surrounded by the familiar faces of Maude Adams, Ethel Barrymore, Ann Murdock, Marie Doro,
Julia Sanderson, William Gillette, and John Drew. On the roll-top desk, side by side, were
the pictures of his two Peter Pans, Miss Adams and Pauline Chase.

Charles's last London production, strangely enough, consisted of two plays by his closest friend,
Barrie. This double bill was "The New Word," a fireside scene, which was followed by "Rosy
Rapture."

By a strange coincidence his first English venture was a failure, and so was his last. Yet
the long and brilliant journey between these two dates was a highway that any man might have
trod with pride. The English-speaking drama received an impetus and a standard that it never
would have had without his unflagging zeal and his generous purse. He left an influence upon
the English stage that will last.

What endeared him perhaps more than anything else to England was the smiling serenity with
which he met criticism and loss. There may have been times when the English resented his desire
for monopoly, but they forgot it in tremendous admiration for his courage and his resource.
He revolutionized the economics of the British stage; he invested it with life, energy, action;
he established a whole new relation between author and producer. Here, as in America, he was
the pioneer and the builder.

XII

BARRIE AND THE ENGLISH FRIENDSHIPS

The fortunes of Charles Frohman's English productions ebbed and flowed; actors and actresses
came and went; to him it was all part of a big and fascinating game. What really counted and
became permanent were the man's friendships, often made in the theatrical world of make-believe,
but always cemented in the domain of very sincere reality. In England were some of his dearest
personal bonds.

They grew out of the fact that Charles had the rare genius of inspiring loyal friendship. He
gave much and he got much. Yet, like Stevenson, it was a case of "a few friends, but these
without capitulation."

In England he seemed to be a different human being. The inaccessibility that hedged him about
in America vanished. He emerged from his unsocial shell; he gave out interviews; he relaxed
and renewed his youth in jaunt and jest. His annual trip abroad, therefore, was like a joyous
adventure. It mattered little if he made or lost a fortune each time.

Frohman was happy in London. He liked the soft, gray tones of the somber city. "It's so restful,"
he always said. Even the "bobbie" delighted him. He would watch the stolid policeman from the
curb and say, admiringly: "He is wonderful; he raises his hand and all London stops." He was
greatly interested in the traffic regulations.

Although he had elaborate offices, his real London headquarters were in the Savoy Hotel. Here,
in the same suite that he had year after year, and where he was known to all employees from
manager to page, he literally sat enthroned, for his favorite fashion was to curl up on a settee
with his feet doubled under him. More than one visitor who saw him thus ensconced called him
a "beaming Buddha."

From his informal eminence he ruled his world. Around him assembled the Knights of the Dramatic
Round Table. Wherever Frohman sat became the unofficial capitol of a large part of the English-speaking
stage. In those Savoy rooms there was made much significant theatrical history. To the little
American came Barrie, Pinero, Chambers, Jones, Sutro, Maugham, Morton, with their plays; Alexander,
Tree, Maude, Hicks, Barker, Bouchier, with their projects.

Like Charles Lamb, Frohman loved to ramble about London. Often he would stop in the midst of
his work, hail a taxi, and go for a drive in the green parks. The Zoological Gardens always
delighted him. He frequently stopped to watch the animals. The English countryside always lured
him, especially the long green hedges, which held a peculiar fascination. He walked considerably
in the country and in town, and he took great delight in peering in shop windows.

In London, as in New York, the theater was his life and inspiration. Almost without exception
he went to a performance of some kind every evening. At most of the London theaters he was
always given the royal box whenever possible. He liked the atmosphere of the British playhouse.
He always said it was more like a drawing-room than a place of amusement.

* * *

To Charles, London meant J. M. Barrie, and to be with the man who wrote "Peter Pan" was one
of his supreme delights. The devotion between these two men of such widely differing temperaments
constitutes one of the really great friendships of modern times. Character of an unusual kind,
on both sides, was essential to such a communion of interest and affection. Both possessed
it to a remarkable degree.

No two people could have been more opposite. Frohman was quick, nervous, impulsive, bubbling
with optimism; Barrie was the quiet, canny Scot, reserved, repressed, and elusive. Yet they
had two great traits in common--shyness and humor. As Barrie says:

"Because we were the two shyest men in the world, we got on so well and understood each other
so perfectly."

There was another bond between these two men in the fact that each adored his mother. In Charles's
case he was the pride and the joy of the maternal heart; with Barrie the root and inspiration
of all his life and work was the revered "Margaret Ogilvy." He is the only man in all the world
who ever wrote a life of his mother.

There was still another and more tangible community of interest between these two remarkable
men. Each detested the silk hat. Frohman had never worn one since the Haverly Minstrel days,
when he had to don the tile for the daily street parade. Barrie, in all his life, has had only
one silk hat. It is of the vintage of the early 'seventies. The only occasion when he wears
the much-detested headgear is at the first rehearsal of the companies that do his plays. Then
he attires himself in morning clothes, goes to the theater, nervously holds the hat in his
hand while he is introduced to the actors and actresses. Just as Charles used to hide his silk
hat as soon as the minstrel parade was over and put on a cap, so does Barrie send the objectionable
headgear home as soon as these formalities are over and welcome his more comfortable bowler
as an old friend.

Curiously enough, Frohman and Barrie did not drift together at once. When the little Scotchman
made his first visit to America in 1896 and "discovered" Maude Adams as the inspired person
to act Lady Babbie, he met the man who was to be his great friend in a casual business way
only. The negotiations for "The Little Minister" from England were conducted through an agent.

But when Frohman went abroad the following year the kinship between the men started, and continued
with increasing intimacy. The men became great pals. They would wander about London, Barrie
smoking a short, black pipe, Frohman swinging his stick. On many of these strolls they walked
for hours without saying a word to each other. Each had the great gift of silence--the rare
sense of understanding.

Barrie and his pipe are inseparable, as the world knows. There is a legend in London theatrical
lore that Frohman wanted to drive to Barrie's flat one night. He was in his usual merry mood,
so the instruction he gave was this:

"Drive to the Strand, go down to Adelphi Terrace, and stop at the first smell of pipe smoke."

Frohman never tired of asking Barrie about "Peter Pan." It was a curious commentary on the
man's tenacity of interest and purpose that, although he made nearly seven hundred productions
in his life, the play of the "Boy Who Would Never Grow Up" tugged most at his heart. Nor did
Barrie ever weary of telling him how the play began as a nursery tale for children; how their
insistent demand to "tell us more" made it the "longest story in the world"; how, when one
pirate had been killed, little Peter (the original of the character, now a soldier in the great
war) excitedly said: "One man isn't enough; let's kill a lot of them."

No one will be surprised to know that in connection with "Peter Pan" is one of the most sweetly
gracious acts in Frohman's life. The original of Peter was sick in bed at his home when the
play was produced in London. The little lad was heartsick because he could not see it. When
Frohman came to London Barrie told him about it.

"If the boy can't come to the play, we will take the play to the boy," he said.

Frohman sent his company out to the boy's home with as many "props" as could be jammed into
the sick-room. While the delighted and excited child sat propped up in bed the wonders of the
fairy play were unfolded before him. It is probably the only instance where a play was done
before a child in his home.

As most people know, Barrie, at his own expense, erected a statue of Peter Pan in Kensington
Gardens as his gift to the children of London who so adored his play. It was done as a surprise,
for the statue stood revealed one May Day morning, having been set up during the night.

When he planned this statue Barrie mentioned it casually to Frohman, and said nothing more
about it. Frohman never visited the park to see it, but when the model was put on exhibition
at the Academy he said to Lestocq one day:

"Where is that Peter Pan model?" When he was told he said: "I want to see it, but do I have
to look at anything else in the gallery?" On being assured that he did not, he said, "All right."

Frohman went to the Academy, bolted straight for the sculpture-room, and stood for a quarter
of an hour gazing intently at the graceful figure of Peter playing his pipe. Then he walked
out again, without stopping to look at any of the lovely things about him. It was characteristic
of Frohman to do just the thing he had in mind to do and nothing else.

Frohman and Barrie seldom wrote to each other. When they did it was a mere scrawl that no other
human being in the world could read. The only cablegram that Barrie ever sent Frohman was about
"What Every Woman Knows." Hilda Trevelyan played Maggie Wylie. Barrie liked her work so much
that he cabled Frohman about it on the opening night. When the actress went down to breakfast
the next morning to read what the newspapers said about her she found on her plate a cable
from Frohman doubling her salary. It was Frohman's answer to Barrie.

Frohman's faith in Barrie was marvelous. It was often said in jest in London that if Barrie
had asked Frohman to produce a dramatization of the Telephone Directory he would smile and
say with enthusiasm:

"Fine! Who shall we have in the cast?"

One of the great Frohman-Barrie adventures was in Paris. It illustrates so completely the relation
between these men that it is worth giving in detail.

Frohman was in Paris, and after much telegraphic insistence persuaded his friend to come over
on his first visit to the French capital. Frohman was aglow with anticipation. He wanted to
give Barrie the time of his life.

"What would a literary man like to do in Paris?" was the question he asked himself.

In his usual generous way he planned the first night, for Barrie was to arrive in the afternoon.
He was then living at the Hôtel Meurice, in the Rue Royale, so he engaged a magnificent suite
for his guest. He ordered a sumptuous dinner at the Café de Paris, bought a box at the Théâtre
Français, and engaged a smart victoria for the evening.

Barrie was dazed at the splendor of the Meurice suite, but he survived it. When Frohman spoke
of the Café de Paris dinner he said he would rather dine quietly at the hotel, so the elaborate
meal was given up.

"Now what would you like to do this evening?" asked his host.

"Are there any of those country fairs around here, where they have side shows and you can throw
balls at things?" asked Barrie.

Frohman, who had box seats for the most classic of all Continental theaters in his pocket, said:

"Yes, there is one in Neuilly."

"All right," said Barrie, "let's go there."

"We'll drive out in a victoria," meekly suggested Frohman.

"No," said Barrie, "I think it would be more fun to go on a 'bus."

With the unused tickets for the Théâtre Français in his waistcoat, and the smart little victoria
still waiting in front of the Meurice (for Frohman forgot to order the man home), the two friends
started for the country fair, where they spent the whole evening throwing balls at what the
French call "Aunt Sally." It is much like the old-fashioned side-show at an American county
fair. A negro pokes his head through a hole in the canvas, and every time the thrower hits
the head he gets a knife. When Frohman and Barrie returned to the Meurice that night they had
fifty knives between them. The next night they repeated this performance until they had knives
enough to start a hardware-store. This was the simple and childlike way that these two men,
each a genius in his own way, disported themselves on a holiday.

One more incident will show the amazing accord between Frohman and Barrie. They were constantly
playing jokes on each other, like two youngsters. One day they were talking in Frohman's rooms
at the Savoy when a certain actress was announced.

"I would like to know what this woman really thinks of me," said Barrie. "I have never met her."

"All right," said Frohman, "you pretend to be my secretary."

The woman came up and had a long talk with Frohman, during which she gave her impressions,
not very flattering, of British playwrights in general and Barrie in particular. All the while
the little Scot sat solemnly at a near-by desk, sorting papers and occasionally handing one
to Frohman to sign. When the woman left they nearly exploded with laughter.

One of Frohman's delights when in England was to go to Barrie's flat in London, overlooking
the Victoria Embankment. He liked this place, first of all, because it was Barrie's. Then,
too, he could sit curled up in the corner on a settee, smoking a fat, black cigar, and look
out on the historic Thames. Here he knew he would not have to talk. It was the place of Silence
and Understanding. He was in an atmosphere he loved. In the flat above lives John Galsworthy;
down-stairs dwells Granville Barker; while just across the street is the domicile of Bernard
Shaw, whose windows face Barrie's.

When Barrie wanted to notify Shaw that Frohman was with him, he would throw bread-crusts against
Shaw's window-panes. In a few moments the sash would fly up and the familiar, grinning, bearded
face would pop out. On one of the occasions Shaw yelled across:

"Are you inviting me to a feast, Barrie--are you casting bread upon the troubled waters or
is it just Frohman?"

In view of Frohman's perfect adoration of Barrie--and it amounted to nothing else--it is interesting,
as a final glimpse of the relation between these men, to see what the American thought of his
friend's work. In analyzing Barrie's work once, Frohman said:

"Barrie's distinctive note is humanity. There is rich human blood in everything he writes.
He is a satirist whose arrows are never barbed with vitriol, but with the milk of human kindness;
a humanist who never surfeits our senses, but leaves much for our willing imagination; an optimist
whose message is as compelling for its reasonableness as it is welcome for its gentleness."

* * *

Through Barrie and "Peter Pan" came another close and devoted friendship in Charles Frohman's
life--the one with Pauline Chase. This American girl had been engaged by one of Frohman's stage-managers
for a small part with Edna May in "The Girl from Up There." Frohman did not even know her in
those days. After she made her great success as the Pink Pajama girl in "Liberty Belles," at
the Madison Square Theater, Frohman engaged her and sent her to England, where, with the exception
of one visit to the United States in "Our Mrs. Gibbs," she has remained ever since.

It was not until she played "Peter Pan" that the Frohman-Chase friendship really began. The
way in which Miss Chase came to play the part is interesting. Cissie Loftus, who had been playing
Peter, became ill, and Miss Chase, who had been playing one of the twins, and was her understudy,
went on to do the more important part at a matinée in Liverpool. Frohman said to her:

"Barrie and I are coming down to see you act. If we like you well enough to play Peter, I will
send you back a sheet of paper with a cross mark on it after the play."

At the end of the first act an usher rapped on Miss Chase's dressing-room door and handed her
the much-desired slip with the cross. Frohman sent word that he could not wait until the end
of the play, because he and Barrie were taking a train back to London. In this unusual way
Pauline Chase secured the part which helped to endear her to the man who was her friend and
sponsor.

Frohman, Barrie, and Miss Chase formed a trio who went about together a great deal and had
much in common, aside from the kinship of the theater. It was for Miss Chase that Barrie wrote
"Pantaloon," in which she appeared in conjunction with "Peter Pan," and which gave her a considerable
reputation in England.

When Pauline Chase was confirmed in the little church in Marlow-on-the-Thames, Barrie was her
godfather and Miss Ellen Terry was her godmother. Frohman attended this ceremony, and it made
a tremendous impression on him. He saw the spectacular side of the ceremony, and the spiritual
meaning was not lost on him.

The personal comradeship with Pauline Chase was one of the really beautiful episodes in Frohman's
life. He was genuinely interested in this girl's career, and in tribute to her confidence in
him she made him, in conjunction with Barrie, her father confessor. Here is an episode that
is tenderly appealing, and which shows another of the many sides of his character:

Frohman and Barrie were both afraid that Miss Chase would marry without telling them about
it, so a compact was made by the three that the two men should be her mentors. There were many
applicants for the hand of this lovely American girl. The successful suitor eventually was
Alec Drummond, member of a distinguished English family, who went to the front when the war began.

One reason for Miss Chase's devotion to Charles lay in the fact that the American manager had
the body of her mother removed from its resting-place in Washington to the dreamy little churchyard
at Marlow-on-the-Thames. It is near Marlow that Miss Chase lived through all the years of the
Frohman-Barrie comradeship. Her little cottage at Tree Tops, Farnham Common, five miles from
Marlow, was one of the places he loved to visit. On the vine-embowered porch he liked to sit
and smoke. On the lawn he indulged in his only exercise, croquet, frequently with Barrie or
Captain Scott, who died in the Antarctic, and Haddon Chambers, who lived near by. Often he
went with his hostess to feed the chickens.

But wherever he went he carried plays. No matter how late he retired to his room, he read a
manuscript before he went to bed. He probably read more plays than any other manager in the world.

Frohman went to Marlow nearly every Saturday in summer. His custom was to alight from the train
at Slough, where Miss Chase would meet him in her car and drive him over to Marlow, where they
lunched at The Compleat Angler, a charming inn on the river.

Miss Chase sometimes playfully performed the office of manicure for Frohman. Once when she
was in Paris he sent her this telegram:

     Nails.

Whereupon she wired back:

     I am afraid you will have to bite them.

Frohman then sent her the telegram by mail, and under it wrote:

     I have.

Of all spots in England, and for that matter in all the world, Charles loved Marlow best. It
is typical of the many contrasts in his crowded life that he would seek peace and sanctuary
in this drowsy English town that nestled between green hills on the banks of the Thames. He
always said that it framed the loveliest memories of his life.

When Miss Chase wrote Frohman that she was to be confirmed in the little church in Marlow,
she got the following reply from him, which showed how dear the drowsy place was in his affection:

     Dear Pauline:--I am glad about Marlow. That little church is the
     only one in the world I care for--that one across the river at
     Marlow. Whenever I see it I want to die and stay there.

     And Marlow with its long street and nobody on it is fine.

It was Haddon Chambers who first took Frohman to Marlow. It came about in a natural way, because
Maidenhead, which is a very popular resort in England (much frequented by theatrical people)
is only a short distance away. One day Chambers, who was with Frohman at Maidenhead, said,
"There is a lovely, quiet village called Marlow not far away. Let's go over there." So they went.

On this trip occurred one of the many humorous adventures that were always happening when Frohman
and Chambers were together. Chambers had the tickets and went on ahead. When he reached the
train he found that Frohman was not there. On returning he found his friend held up by the
gateman, who demanded a ticket. Quick as a flash Chambers said to him:

"Why do you keep His Grace waiting?"

The gateman immediately became flurried and excited and made apologies. In the mean time Frohman,
who took in the situation with his usual quickness, looked solemn and dignified and then passed
in like a peer of the realm.

Chambers rented a cottage at Marlow each summer, and one of the things to which Frohman looked
forward most eagerly was a visit with him there. Frequent visits to Marlow made the manager
known to the whole town. The simplicity of his manner and his keen interest, humor, and sympathy
won him many friends. His arrival was always more or less of an event in the little township.

It is a one-street place, with many fascinating old shops. Frohman loved to prowl around, look
in the shop windows, and talk to the tradesmen, who came to know and love him and look forward
to his advent with the keenest interest. To them he was not the great American theatrical magnate,
but a simple, kindly, interested human being who inquired about their babies and who had a
big and generous nature.

Frohman once made this remark about the Marlow antique shops: "They're great. When I buy things
the proprietor always tells me whether they are real or only fake stuff. That's because I'm
one of his friends." It was typical of the man that he was as proud of this friendship as with
that of a prince.

On the tramps through Marlow he was often accompanied by Miss Chase and Haddon Chambers. He
had three particular friends in the town. One was Muriel Kilby, daughter of the keeper of The
Compleat Angler. When Frohman first went to Marlow she was a slip of a child. He watched her
grow up with an increasing pride. This great and busy man found time in New York to write her
notes full of friendly affection. A few days before the Lusitania went down she received a
note from him saying that he was soon to sail, and looked forward with eagerness to his usual
stay at Marlow.

Through Miss Kilby Frohman became more intimately a part of the local life of Marlow. She was
head of the Marlow Amateur Dramatic Society, which gave an amateur play every year. Frohman
became a member, paid the five shillings annual dues, and whenever it was possible he went
to their performances. As a matter of fact, the Marlow Dramatic Society has probably the most
distinguished non-resident membership in the world, for besides Frohman (and through him) it
includes Barrie, Haddon Chambers, Pauline Chase, Marie Lohr, William Gillette, and Marc Klaw.
Frohman always took his close American friends to Marlow. One of the prices they paid was membership
in the amateur dramatic society.

Like every really great man, Charles Frohman was tremendously simple, as his friendship with
W. R. Clark, the Marlow butcher, shows. Clark is a big, ruddy, John Bull sort of man, whose
shop is one of the main sights of High Street in the village. Frohman regarded his day at Marlow
incomplete without a visit to Clark. One day he met Clark dressed up in his best clothes. He
asked Clark where he was going.

"I am going to visit my pigs," replied the butcher. Frohman thought this a great joke, and
never tired of telling it.

Once when Frohman gave out an interview about his friends in Marlow, he sent the clipping to
his friend Clark, who wrote him a letter, which contained, among other things:

     I can assure you I quite appreciate your kindness in sending the
     cutting to me. When the township of Marlow has obtained from His
     Majesty King George the necessary charter to become a county
     borough, and you offer yourself for the position of Mayor, I will
     give you my whole-hearted support and influence to secure your
     election.

Then, too, there was Jones, the Marlow barber, who shaved Frohman for a penny because he was
a regular customer.

"Jones is a great man," Frohman used to say. "He never charges me more than a penny for a shave
because I am one of his regular customers. Otherwise it would be twopence. I always give his
boy a sixpence, however, but Jones doesn't know that."

Indeed, the people of Marlow looked upon Frohman as their very own. He always said that he
wanted to be buried in the churchyard by the river. This churchyard had a curious interest
for him. He used to wander around in it and struck up quite an acquaintance with the wife of
the sexton. She was always depressed because times were so bad and no one was dying. Then an
artist died and was buried there, and the old woman cheered up considerably. Frohman used to
tell her that the only funeral that he expected to attend was his own.

"And mark you," he said, for he could never resist a jest, "you must take precious good care
of my grave."

His wish to lie in Marlow was not attained, but in tribute to the love he had for it the memorial
that his friends in England have raised to him--a fountain--stands to-day at the head of High
Street in the little town where he loved to roam, the place in which he felt, perhaps, more
at home than any other spot on earth. Had he made the choice himself he would have preferred
this simple, sincere tribute, in the midst of simple, unaffected people who knew him and loved
him, to stained glass in the stateliest of cathedrals.

* * *

Charles cared absolutely nothing for honors. He was content to hide behind the mask of his
activities. He would never even appear before an audience. Almost unwillingly he was the recipient
of the greatest compliment ever paid an American theatrical man in England. It happened in
this way:

One season when Frohman had lost an unusual amount of money, Sir John Hare gathered together
some of his colleagues.

"Frohman has done big things," Hare said to them. "He loses his money like a gentleman. Let
us make him feel that he is not just an American, but one of us."

A dinner was planned in his honor at the Garrick Club. He is the only American theatrical manager
to be elected to membership in this exclusive club. When Frohman was apprised of the dinner
project he shrank from it.

"I don't like that sort of thing," he said. "Besides, I can't make a speech."

"But you won't have to make a speech," said Sir Arthur Pinero, who headed the committee.

Frohman tried in every possible way to evade this dinner. Finally he accepted on the condition
that when the time came for him to respond he was merely to get up, bow his acknowledgment,
and say, "Thank you." This he managed to do.

At this dinner, over which Sir John Hare presided, Frohman was presented with a massive silver
cigarette-box, on which was engraved the facsimile signatures of every one present. These signatures
comprise the "Who's Who" of the British theater. These princes of the drama were proud and
glad to call themselves "A few of his friends," as the inscription on the box read.

The signers were, among others, Sir Arthur Pinero, Sir Charles Wyndham, Sir John Hare, Sir
Herbert Beerbohm Tree, Sir James M. Barrie, Alfred Sutro, Cyril Maude, H. B. Irving, Lawrence
Irving, Louis N. Parker, Anthony Hope, A. E. W. Mason, Seymour Hicks, Robert Marshall, W. Comyns
Carr, Weedon Grossmith, Gerald Du Maurier, Eric Lewis, Dion Boucicault, A. E. Matthews, Arthur
Bouchier, Cosmo Hamilton, Allan Aynesworth, R. C. Carton, Sam Sothern, and C. Aubrey Smith.

* * *

Nothing gave Charles more satisfaction in England perhaps than his encouragement of the British
playwright. He inherited Pinero from his brother Daniel, and remained his steadfast friend
and producer until his death. Pinero would not think of submitting a play to any other American
manager without giving Frohman the first call. In all the years of their relations, during
which Charles paid Pinero a large fortune, there was not a sign of contract between them.

Frohman practically made Somerset Maugham in America. His first association with this gifted
young Englishman was typical of the man's method of doing business. Maugham had written a play
called "Mrs. Dot," in which Marie Tempest was to appear. Frederick Harrison, of the Haymarket
Theater, had an option on it, which had just expired. Another manager wanted the play. Frohman
heard of it, and asked to be allowed to read it. Maugham then said:

"It must be decided to-night."

It was then dinner-time.

"Give me three hours," said Frohman.

At one o'clock in the morning he called up Maugham at his house and accepted the play, which
was probably the quickest reading and acceptance on record in England.

Another experience with Maugham shows how Frohman really inspired plays.

He was riding on the train with the playwright when he suddenly said to him:

"I want a new play from you."

"All right," said Maugham.

Frohman thought a moment, and suddenly flashed out:

"Why not rewrite 'The Taming of the Shrew' with a new background?"

"All right," said Maugham.

The result was Maugham's play "The Land of Promise," which was really built around Frohman's idea.

Frohman produced all of Maugham's plays in America, and most of them were great successes.
He also did the great majority of them in England. Maugham waxed so prosperous that he was
able to buy a charming old residence in Chesterfield Street which he remodeled in elaborate
fashion. On its completion his first dinner guest was Charles Frohman. When Maugham sent him
the invitation it read:

     Will you come and see the house that Frohman built?

In the same way he developed men like Michael Morton. He would see a French farce in the Paris
theaters, and, although he could not understand a word of French, he got the spirit and the
meaning through its action. He would buy the play, go to London with the manuscript, and get
Morton or Paul Potter to adapt it for American consumption.

* * *

Life in London to Charles Frohman was one series of adventures. Like Harun-al-Rashid in the
Arabian Nights, he delighted to wander about, often with Barrie, sometimes with Lestocq, seeking
out strange and picturesque places in which to eat.

These adventures began in his earliest days in England. Here is a characteristic experience:

One day Madeline Lucette Ryley, the playwright, came to see him in his office in Henrietta
Street. A battered old man was hanging around the door.

"Did you see that man outside?" asked Frohman.

"Yes," said Mrs. Ryley. "Is he the bailiff?"

"Oh no," said Frohman, "he is a Maidenhead cabby." This is the story of how he came there.

The day before Frohman had been down to Maidenhead alone for luncheon. At the station he hailed
a cabby who was driving a battered old fly.

"Where to, Governor?" asked the man.

"Number 5 Henrietta Street," said Frohman.

"No such place in Maidenhead," said the driver.

"Oh, I mean the place opposite Covent Garden in London."

The old cabby wasn't a bit flustered, but he said, "I will have to get a new horse."

He changed horses and they made the long way to London, arriving there considerably after nightfall.
When Frohman asked for his bill the old man said, with some hesitation:

"I'm afraid it will cost you five pounds."

"That's all right," said Frohman, and paid the bill.

To his great surprise, the cabby showed up next morning, saying: "I like London. I think I'll
stay here." It was with the greatest difficulty that Frohman got rid of him. When the cabby
finally started to go he said:

"Well, Governor, if you want to go back to Maidenhead I'll do it for half-price."

A short time after this incident Frohman, whose purse was none too full then, asked some people
to dine with him at the Hotel Cecil. By some mistake he and his party were shown into a room
that had been arranged for a very elaborate dinner. Before he realized it the waiter began
to serve the meal. He soon knew that it was not the menu he had ordered, and was costing twenty
times more. But he was game and stuck to it. It was midwinter, and when the fresh peaches came
on he said to the woman on his right:

"This will break me, I know, but we might as well have a good time."

Frohman almost invariably took one of his American friends to England with him. It was usually
Charles Dillingham, Paul Potter, or William Gillette.

On one of Gillette's many trips with him Frohman got up an elaborate supper for Mark Twain
at the Savoy and invited a brilliant group of celebrities, including all three of the Irvings,
Beerbohm Tree, Chauncey M. Depew, Sir Charles Wyndham, Haddon Chambers, Nat Goodwin, and Arthur
Bouchier. In his inconspicuous way, however, he made it appear that Gillette was giving the supper.

Midnight arrived, and Twain had not shown up. It was before the days of taxis, so Dillingham
was sent after him in a hansom. After going to the wrong address, he finally located the humorist
in Chelsea. He found Mark Twain sitting in his dressing-gown, smoking a Pittsburg stogie and
reading a book.

"Did you forget all about the supper?" asked Dillingham.

"No," was the drawling reply, "but I didn't know where the blamed thing was. I had a notion
that some one of you would come for me."

Mark Twain and Frohman were great friends. They were often together in London. Their favorite
diversion was to play "hearts."

The great humorist once drew a picture of Charles, and under it wrote:

     N. B. I cannot make a good mouth. Therefore leave it out. There is
     enough without it, anyway. Done with the best ink.

     M. T.

Underneath this inscription he wrote:

     To Charles Frohman, Master of Hearts.

Few things in England pleased Frohman more than to play a joke on Gillette, for the author
of "Secret Service," like his great friend, relaxed when he was on the other side. When Frohman
produced "Sue" in England an amusing incident happened.

Frohman had brought over Annie Russell and Ida Conquest for his piece. The actresses were very
much excited before the first night, and went without dinner. After the play they were very
hungry. On going to the Savoy they encountered the English prohibition against serving women
at night when unaccompanied by men. After trying at several places they went to their lodging
in Langham Place almost famished.

In desperation they telephoned to Dillingham, who was playing "hearts" at the Savoy with Frohman
and Gillette. He hurriedly got some food together in a basket, and with his two friends drove
to where the young women were staying. The house was dark; fruitless pulls at the door-bell
showed that it was broken. It was impossible to raise any one.

Dillingham knew that the actresses were occupying rooms on the second floor front. He had five
large English copper pennies in his pocket, and so he started to throw them up to the window
to attract their attention. He threw four, and each fell short.

"This is the last copper," he said to Frohman. "If we can't reach the girls with this they
will have to go hungry."

Whereupon Frohman said: "Let Gillette throw it. He can make a penny go further than any man
in the world."

* * *

Such was Charles Frohman's English life. It was joyous, almost rollicking, and pervaded with
the spirit of adventure. Yet behind all the humor was something deep, searching, and significant,
because in England, as in America, this man was a vital and constructive force, and where he
went, whether in laughter or in seriousness, he left his impress.

XIII

A GALAXY OF STARS

The last decade of Charles Frohman's life was one of continuous star-making linked with far-flung
enterprise. He now had a chain of theaters that reached from Boston by way of Chicago to Seattle;
his productions at home kept on apace; his prestige abroad widened.

Frohman had watched the development of Otis Skinner with great interest. That fine and representative
American actor had thrived under his own management. Early in the season of 1905 he revived
his first starring vehicle, a costume play by Clyde Fitch, called "His Grace de Grammont."
It failed, however, and Skinner looked about for another piece. He heard that Frohman, who
had a corner on French plays for America, owned the rights to Lavedan's play "The Duel," which
had scored a big success in Paris. He knew that the leading rôle ideally fitted his talent
and temperament.

Skinner went to Frohman and asked him if he could produce "The Duel" in America.

"Why don't you do it under my management?" asked the manager.

"All right," replied the actor, "I will."

With these few remarks began the connection between Charles Frohman and Otis Skinner.

It was during the closing years of Frohman's life that his genius for singling out gifted young
women for eminence found its largest expression. Typical of them was Marie Doro, a Dresden-doll
type of girl who made her first stage appearance, as did Billie Burke and Elsie Ferguson, in
musical comedy.

Charles Frohman saw her in a play called "The Billionaire" at Daly's Theater in New York, in
which she sang and danced. He had an unerring eye for beauty and talent. With her, as with
others that he transported from musical pieces to straight drama, he had an uncanny perception.
He engaged her and featured her in a slender little play called "Friquette."

Miss Doro made such an impression on her first appearance that Frohman now put her in "Clarice,"
written by William Gillette, in which he also appeared. Her success swept her nearer to stardom,
for she next appeared in a Frohman production which, curiously enough, reflected one of Frohman's
sentimental moods.

For many years Mrs. G. H. Gilbert was a famous figure on the American stage. She had been one
of the "Big Four" of Augustin Daly's company for many years, and remained with Daly until his
death. She was the beloved first old woman of the dramatic profession. When the Daly company
disbanded Mrs. Gilbert did not prepare to retire. She was hearty and active.

Frohman realized what a warm place this grand old woman had in the affection of theater-goers
after all the years of faithful labor, so he said to himself:

"Here is a wonderful old woman who has never been a star. She must have this great experience
before she dies."

He engaged Clyde Fitch to write a play called "Granny," in which Mrs. Gilbert was starred.
It made her very happy, and she literally died in the part.

In the cast of "Granny" Miss Doro's youthful and exquisite beauty shone anew. Her success with
the press and the public was little short of phenomenal. Charles now saw Miss Doro as star.
He held youth, beauty, and talent to be the great assets, and he seldom made a mistake. It
was no vanity that made him feel that if an artist pleased him she would likewise please the
public.

Frohman now starred Miss Doro in the stage adaptation of William J. Locke's charming story,
"The Morals of Marcus." She became one of his pet protégées. With her, as with the other young
women, he delighted to nurse talent. He conducted their rehearsals with a view of developing
all their resources, and to show every facet of their temperaments. Failure never daunted him
so long as he had confidence in his ward. This was especially the case with Miss Doro, who
was unfortunate in a long string of unsuccessful plays. Frohman's faith in her, however, was
at last justified, when she played Dora in Sardou's great play, "Diplomacy," with brilliant
success a year in London and later in New York.

* * *

With the exception of Maude Adams and Ann Murdock, no Frohman star had so swift or spectacular
a rise as Billie Burke. Her story is one of the real romances of the Frohman star-making.

Billie Burke was the daughter of a humble circus clown in America. From him she probably inherited
her mimetic gifts. At the beginning of her career she had obscure parts in American musical pieces.

It was in London, however, that she first came under the observation of Charles. She had graduated
from the chorus to a part in Edna May's great success, "The School Girl." She had a song called
"Put Me in My Little Canoe," which made a great hit. Frohman became so much interested that
he thought of sending Miss Burke to America in the piece. He transferred the song to Miss May,
which left Miss Burke with scarcely any opportunity. Subsequently she was put in "The Belle
of Mayfair," and afterward replaced Miss May when she retired.

Louis N. Parker saw her in this piece and agreed with Frohman that the girl had possibilities
as a serious actress. She was cast for her first dramatic part in "The Honorable George," the
play he was then producing in London.

When Michael Morton adapted a very beguiling French play called "My Wife," Frohman saw that
here was Miss Burke's opportunity for America. He secured her release from the Gattis, who
controlled her English appearances, and made her John Drew's leading woman. She met his confidence
by adapting herself to the rôle with great brilliancy and effect. Indeed, with Miss Burke,
Frohman introduced a distinct and piquant reddish-blond type of beauty to the American stage.
It became known as the "Billie Burke type." Realizing this, Frohman was very careful to adapt
her personal appearance, humor, and temperament to her plays. He literally had plays written
about her peculiar gifts.

Miss Burke's great success in "My Wife" projected her into the Frohman stellar heaven. She
was launched as a star in "Love Watches," an adaptation from the French, securely established
herself in the favor of theater-goers, and from that time on her appearance in a chic, smart
play became one of the distinct features of the annual Frohman season. Her most distinguished
success was with Pinero's play "Mind the Paint Girl," in which Frohman was greatly interested.

Few of Frohman's "discoveries" justified his confidence with lovelier success than Julia Sanderson.
Her first public appearance on the stage had been in vaudeville. When Frohman sought a comedienne
with a certain dainty, lady-like quality for the English musical play called "The Dairymaids,"
which he produced at the Criterion in 1907, his attention was called to this charming girl,
then doing musical numbers in a New York vaudeville theater. Frohman went to see her, and was
fascinated by her beauty and charm. He noted, most of all, a certain gentle quality in her
personality, and with his peculiar genius in adapting plays to people and people to plays,
she fairly bloomed under his persuasive and sympathetic sponsorship.

Frohman now obtained "The Arcadians," in which Miss Sanderson was featured. Of all the musical
plays that he produced, this was perhaps his favorite. He liked it so much that he told Miss
Sanderson one day during rehearsal:

"If the public does not like 'The Arcadians,' then I am finished with light opera."

"The Arcadians," however, proved to be a gratifying success, and Frohman's confidence was vindicated.
Frohman was undergoing his long and almost fatal illness at the Knickerbocker Hotel when "The
Arcadians" was being rehearsed. He was so fond of the music that whenever possible the rehearsals
in which Miss Sanderson sang were conducted in his rooms at the hotel. He always said that
he could see the whole performance in her singing. In rehearsing her he always seemed to well-nigh
break her heart, but it was his way, as he afterward admitted, of provoking her emotional temperament.

He next gave her a strong part in "The Siren," and subsequently made her a co-star with Donald
Brian in "The Sunshine Girl," which brought out to the fullest advantage, so far, her exquisite
and alluring qualities.

* * *

The last star to twinkle into life under the Frohman wand was Ann Murdock. Here is presented
an extraordinary example of the way that Charles literally "made" stars, for seldom, if ever,
before has a young actress been so quickly raised from obscurity to eminence. Almost overnight
he lifted her into fame.

Miss Murdock, who was born in New York, and had spent her childhood in Port Washington, Long
Island, was not a stage-struck girl. She went on the stage because she made up her mind that
she wanted more nice frocks than she was having. She rode over to New York one day and went
to Henry B. Harris's office to get a position. As she sat waiting among a score of applicants,
Harris came out. He was so much taken with her striking Titian beauty and unaffected girlish
charm that he immediately asked her to come in ahead of the rest, and gave her a small part
in one of "The Lion and the Mouse" road companies. When Harris saw her act he took her out
of the cast and put her in a new production that he was making in New York.

At the end of the season she wanted to get under Charles Frohman's management, so she went
to the Empire Theater to try her luck. There she met William Gillette, who was making one of
his numerous revivals of "Secret Service." The moment he saw this fresh, appealing young girl
he immediately cast her in his mind for the part of the young Southern girl. After he had talked
with her, however, he said:

"I think it would be best if I wrote a part for you. I am now working on a play, and I think
you had better go in that."

Miss Murdock now appeared in Gillette's new play, "Electricity," in which Marie Doro was starred.
Charles Frohman saw her at the opening rehearsal for the first time.

"Electricity" was a failure. Instead of following up her connection with the Frohman office,
she went to the cast of "A Pair of Sixes," in which she played for a whole season on Broadway,
displaying qualities which brought her conspicuously before the public and to the notice of
the man who was to do so much for her.

One night Charles stopped in to see this farce. He had never forgotten the lovely young girl
who had played in "Electricity." The next day he sent for Miss Murdock, offered her an engagement,
and made another of those simple arrangements, for he said to her:

"You are with me for life."

This was Frohman's way of telling an actor or actress that, without the formality of a contract,
they were to look to him each season for employment and that they need not worry about engagements.

From this time on Frohman took an earnest interest in Miss Murdock's career. He saw in her,
as he had seen in only a few of his women stars, an immense opportunity to create a new and
distinct type.

Just about this time he became very much interested in the English adaptation of a French play
which he called "The Beautiful Adventure," which was, curiously enough, one of the plays uppermost
in his mind on the day he went to his death.

He now did a daring but characteristic Frohman thing. He believed implicitly in Miss Murdock's
talents; he felt that the part of the ingenuous young girl in this play was ideally suited
to her pleading personality, so, in conjunction with Mrs. Thomas Whiffen and Charles Cherry,
he featured her in the cast. Miss Murdock's characterization amply justified Frohman's confidence,
but the play failed in New York and on the road. He wrote to Miss Murdock:

     I am afraid our little play is too gentle for the West. Come back.
     I have something else for you.

He now put Miss Murdock into Porter Emerson Browne's play "A Girl of To-day," which had its
first presentation in Washington. Frohman, Miss Murdock, and her mother were riding from the
station in Washington to the Shoreham Hotel. As they passed the New National Theater, where
the young actress was to appear, Miss Murdock suddenly looked out of the cab and saw the following
inscription in big type on the bill:

     Charles Frohman presents Ann Murdock in "A Girl of To-day."

It was the first intimation that she had been made a star, and she burst into tears. In this
episode Frohman had repeated what he had done in the case of Ethel Barrymore ten years before.

Frohman had predicted great things for Miss Murdock, for at the time of his death there was
no doubt of the fact that she was destined, in his mind, for a very remarkable career.

* * *

But those last years of Frohman's life were not confined exclusively to the pleasant and grateful
task of making lovely women stars. The men also had a chance, as the case of Donald Brian shows.
Frohman had been much impressed with his success in "The Merry Widow," so he put him under
his management and starred him in "The Dollar Princess," which was the first of a series of
Brian successes.

Frohman saw that Brian had youth, charm, and pleasing appearance. He was an unusually good
singer and an expert dancer. He was equipped to give distinction to the musical play Frohman
wanted to present. He had watched the interest of his audiences, and saw that young Brian was
a distinct favorite with women as well as men, and his success as star justified all these plans.

While Frohman was making new stars, older ones came under his control in swift succession,
among them Madame Nazimova, William Courtnay, James K. Hackett, Kyrle Bellew, Mrs. Fiske, Charles
Cherry, John Mason, Martha Hedman, Alexandra Carlisle, William Courtleigh, Nat Goodwin, Blanche
Bates, Hattie Williams, Gertrude Elliott, Constance Collier, Richard Carle, and Cyril Maude.

Frohman now reached the very apex of his career. At one time he had twenty-eight stars under
his management; and in addition fully as many more companies bore his name throughout the country.
To be a Frohman star was the acme of stage ambition, for it not only meant professional distinction,
but equitable and honorable treatment.

* * *

The year 1915 dawned with fateful significance for Charles Frohman. With its advent began a
chain of happenings that, in the light of later events, seemed almost prophetic of the fatal
hour which was now closing in.

Perhaps the most picturesque and significant of these events was the reconciliation with his
old friend David Belasco. Twelve years before, through an apparently trivial thing, a breach
had developed between these two men whose fortunes had been so intimately entwined. They had
launched their careers in New York together; the old Madison Square Theater had housed their
first theatrical ambition; they had kept pace on the road to fame; their joint productions
had been features of the New York stage. Yet for twelve years they had not spoken.

Frohman became ill, and lay stricken at the Knickerbocker Hotel. That he had thought much of
his old comrade, so long estranged, was evident. A remarkable coincidence resulted. It was
like an act in any one of the many plays they had produced.

One afternoon Belasco, who had heard of the serious plight of Frohman, sat in his studio on
the top floor of the Belasco Theater. There, amid his Old World curios, he pondered over the past.

"'C. F.' is lying ill at the Knickerbocker," he said to himself. "He may die. I must see him.
This quarrel of ours is a great mistake."

He started to write a note to his old friend, when the telephone-bell rang. It was his business
manager, Benjamin Roeder, who said:

"I have just had a telephone message from Charles Frohman. He wants to see you."

When Belasco told Roeder that he was just in the act of writing to Frohman to tell him that
he wanted to see him, both men were amazed at the coincidence.

That night, when the few friends who gathered each evening at Frohman's bedside had gone, Belasco
entered the sick-room at the Knickerbocker. Frohman was so weak that he could hardly raise
his hand. Belasco went to him, took his right hand in both of his, and the old comrades put
together again the thread of their friendship just where it had been broken twelve years before.

They talked over the old days. Frohman, whose mind was always on the theater, suddenly said:

"Let's do a play together, David."

"All right," said Belasco.

"You name the play. I will get the cast, and we will rehearse it together," added Frohman.

Out of this reconciliation came the magnificent revival of "A Celebrated Case," by D'Ennery
and Cormon. The cast included Nat Goodwin, Otis Skinner, Ann Murdock, Helen Ware, Florence
Reed, and Robert Warwick. On Frohman's recovery he undertook the rehearsals. Belasco came in
at the end, but he had little to do.

Frohman and Belasco not only resumed their joint production of plays, but they resumed part
of their old life together. Now began again their favorite diet of pumpkin and meringue pie
and tea after the day's work was done. Night after night they met after the theater, just as
they had done in the old Madison Square days when they went to O'Neil's, on Sixth Avenue, for
their frugal repast, dreaming and planning their futures. Now each man had become a great personage.
Frohman was the amusement dictator of two worlds; Belasco, the acknowledged stage wizard of
his time.

After a week in Boston the all-star cast in "A Celebrated Case" opened at the Empire Theater
in New York. History repeated itself. Frohman and Belasco sat in the same place in the wings
where they sat twenty-two years before at the launching of "The Girl I Left Behind Me," which
dedicated the Empire. Now, as then, there were tumultuous calls for the producers. Again David
tried to induce Charles to go out, but he said:

"No, you go, David, and speak for me. Stand where you did twenty-two years ago."

In 1915, as in 1893, Belasco went out and spoke Frohman's thanks and his own.

The revival of "A Celebrated Case" not only brought Frohman and Belasco together, but led to
an agreement between them to do a production together every year.

* * *

There was a tragic hint of the fate which was shaping Charles Frohman's end in his last production
on any stage. It was a war play called "The Hyphen," by Justus Miles Forman, the novelist.
The scenes were laid in Pennsylvania, and the story dealt with the various attempts to unsettle
the loyalty of German-Americans through secret agencies. The whole problem of the hyphenated
citizen, which had complicated the American position in the great war, was set forth.

Even in his unconscious stage farewell, Charles was the pioneer, because the acceptance of
"The Hyphen" and the prompt organization of the company established a new record in play-producing.
Up to a certain Saturday morning Charles Frohman had never heard of the play. That afternoon
the manuscript was put into his hands and he read it. A messenger was sent off post-haste to
find the author. In the mean time, Frohman engaged W. H. Thompson, Gail Kane, and a notable
group of players for the cast, and gave orders for the construction of the scenery. Late that
afternoon Mr. Forman called on Charles, whom he had never met. Without any further ado the
manager said to the playwright-author:

"I am going to produce your play. We have nothing to discuss. A manager often discusses at
great length the play that he does not intend to produce. Therefore all that I have to tell
you is that your play is accepted. I have already engaged the chief actors needed, and the
scenery was ordered two hours ago. I am glad to produce a play on this timely subject, but
I am especially glad that it is an American who wrote it."

Charles was greatly interested in "The Hyphen." It was American to the core; it flouted treachery
to the country of adoption; it appealed to his big sense of patriotism. He felt, with all the
large enthusiasm of his nature, that he was doing a distinct national service in producing
the piece. He personally supervised every rehearsal. He talked glowingly to his friends about
it. At fifty-five he displayed the same bubbling optimism with regard to it that he had shown
about his first independent venture.

Now began the last of the chain of dramatic events which ended in death. As soon as "The Hyphen"
was announced, Frohman began to get threatening letters warning him that it would be a mistake
to produce so sensational a play in the midst of such an acute international situation. Pro-Germans
of incendiary tendency especially resented it. To all these intimations Frohman merely shrugged
his shoulders and smiled. It made him all the more determined.

"The Hyphen" was produced April 19th at the Knickerbocker Theater before a hostile audience.
Unpatriotic pro-Germans had packed the theater. During the progress of the play the dynamite
explosions in the Broadway subway construction outside were misinterpreted for bombs, and there
was suppressed excitement throughout the whole performance.

The play was a failure. Yet Frohman's confidence in it was unimpaired. He went to see it nearly
every night of its short life in New York. He even sent it to Boston for a second verdict,
but Boston agreed with New York. Like every production that bore the Charles Frohman stamp,
he gave it every chance. Reluctantly he ordered up the notice to close.

Frohman became greatly attached to Forman. With his usual generosity he invited the author
to accompany him on his approaching trip to England.

"I want you to come with me and meet Barrie and know some of my other English friends," Charles
said, little dreaming that the invitation to a holiday was the beckoning hand of death to both.

XIV

STAR-MAKING AND AUDIENCES

During all these busy years Frohman had reigned supreme as king of star-makers. Under his persuasive
sponsorship more men and women rose to stellar eminence than with all his fellow-managers combined.
It was the very instinct of his life to develop talent, and it gave him an extraordinary satisfaction
to see the artist emerge from the background into fame.

His attitude in the matter of star-making was never better expressed than in one of his many
playful moods with the pencil. Like Caruso, he was a caricaturist. Few things gave him more
delight than to make a hasty sketch of one of his friends on any scrap of paper that lay near
at hand. He usually made these sketches just as he wrote most of his personal letters, with
a heavy blue pencil.

On one occasion he was talking with Pauline Chase about making stars. A smile suddenly burst
over his face; he seized pencil and paper and made a sketch of himself walking along at night
and pointing to the moon with his stick. Under the picture he wrote, as if addressing the moon:

    Watch out, or I'll make a star out of you.

Once he said to Billie Burke, in discussing this familiar star subject:

"A star has a unique value in a play. It concentrates interest. In some respects a play is
like a dinner. To be a success, no matter how splendidly served, the menu should always have
one unique and striking dish that, despite its elaborate gastronomic surroundings, must long
be remembered. This is one reason why you need a star in a play."

Despite the fact, as the case of Ann Murdock shows, that Charles could literally lift a girl
from the ranks almost overnight, he generally regarded the approach to stardom as a difficult
and hard-won path. Just before the great European war, he made this comment to a well-known
English journalist, who asked him how he made stars:

"Each of my stars has earned his or her position through honest advancement. If the President
of the United States wants to reward a soldier he says to him, 'I will make you a general.'
By the same process I say to an actor, 'I will make you a star.'

"All the stars under my management owe their eminence to their own ability and industry, and
also to the fact that the American is an individual-loving public. In America we regard the
workman first and the work second. Our imaginations are fired not nearly so much by great deeds
as by great doers. There are stars in every walk of American life. It has always been so with
democracies. Cæsar, Cicero, and the rest were public stars when Rome was at her best, just
as in our day Roosevelt and others shine.

"Far from fostering it, the star system as such has simply meant for me that when one of my
stars finishes with a play, that play goes permanently on the shelf, no one ever hoping to
muster together an audience for it without the original actor or actress in the star part.

"Vital acting in plays of consequence is the foundation of theatrical success. You have only
to enumerate the plays to realize the drain even one management can make upon what is, after
all, a limited supply of capable leading actors. This is because the American stage is short
of leaders. There is a world of actors, but too few leading actors."

"What do you mean by leading actor?" he was asked.

"I mean that if in casting a play you can find an actor who looks the part you have in mind
for him, be thankful; if you can find an actor who can act the part, be very thankful; and
if you can find an actor who can look and act the part, get down on your knees and thank God!"

Frohman had a very definite idea about star material. He was once talking with a well-known
American publisher who mentioned that a certain very rich woman had announced her determination
to go on the stage. The manager made one of his quick and impatient gestures, and said:

"She will never do."

"Why?" asked his friend.

"Because," replied Frohman, "in all my experience with the making of stars I have seldom known
of a very rich girl who made a finished success on the stage. The reason is that the daughters
of the rich are taught to repress their emotions. In other words, they don't seem to be able
to let go their feelings. Give me the common clay, the kind that has suffered and even hungered.
It makes the best star material."

There is no doubt that Frohman liked to "make" careers. He wanted to see people develop under
his direction. To indulge in this diversion was often a very costly thing, as this incident shows:

Chauncey Olcott, who had been associated with him in his minstrel days, and become one of the
most profitable stars in the country, once sent a message to Frohman saying that he would like
to come under his management. To the intermediary Olcott said:

"Tell Mr. Frohman that I make one hundred thousand dollars a year. He can name his own percentage
of this income."

Frohman sent back this message:

"I greatly appreciate the offer, but I don't care to manage Olcott. He is made. I like to make
stars."

One reason that lay behind Frohman's success as star-maker was the fact that he wove a great
deal of himself into the character of the stars. In other words, the personal element counted
a great deal. When somebody once remonstrated with him about giving up so much of his valuable
time to what seemed to be inconsequential talks with his women stars, he said:

"It is not a waste of time. I have often helped those young women to take a brighter view of
things, and it makes me feel that I am not just their manager, but their friend."

Indeed, as Barrie so well put it, he regarded his women stars as his children. If they were
playing in New York they were expected to call on him and talk personalities three or four
times a week. On the road they sent him daily telegrams; these were placed on his desk every
morning, and were dealt with in person before any other business of the day. He had the names
of his stars printed in large type on his business envelopes. These were so placed on his table
that as he sat and wrote or talked he could see their names ranked before him.

When his women stars played in New York he always tried to visit them at night at the theater
before the curtain went up. He always said of this that it was like seeing his birds tucked
safely in their nests. Then he would go back to his office or his rooms and read manuscripts
until late.

One phase of Charles's great success in life was revealed in this attitude toward his women
stars. He succeeded because he mixed sentiment with business. He was not all sentiment and
he was not all business, but he was an extraordinarily happy blend of each of these qualities,
and they endeared him to the people who worked for him.

The attitude of the great star toward Frohman is best explained perhaps by Sir Henry Irving.
Once, when the time came for his usual American tour, he said to his long-time manager, Bram
Stoker, who was about to start for New York:

"When you get to America just tell Frohman--you need not bother to write him--that I want to
come under his management. He always understands. He is always so fair."

One detail will illustrate Frohman's feeling about stars, and it is this: He never wanted them,
male or female, to make themselves conspicuous or to do commonplace things. He was sensitive
about what they said or did. For example, he did not like to see John Drew walk up and down
Broadway. He spent a fortune sheltering Maude Adams from all kinds of intrusion. With her especially
he exhausted every resource to keep her aloof and secluded. He preferred that she be known
through her work and not through her personal self. It was so with himself.

Frohman was one of the most generous-minded of men in his feeling about his co-workers. On
one occasion when he was rehearsing "The Dictator," William Collier suggested a whole new scene.
The next night Frohman took a friend to see it. Afterward, accompanied by his guest, he went
back on the stage to congratulate his star. He slapped Collier on the back and, turning to
his companion, said:

"Wasn't that a bully scene that Willie put into the play?"

He was always willing to admit that his success came from those who worked for him. Once he
was asked the question:

"If you had your life to live over again would you be a theatrical manager?"

Quick as a flash Frohman replied:

"If I could be surrounded by the same actors and writers who have made me--yes. Otherwise, no."

This feeling led him to say once:

"I believe a manager's success does not come so much from the public as from his players. When
they are ready to march with him without regard to results, then he has indeed succeeded. This
is my success. My ambition frankly centers in the welfare of the actor. The day's work holds
out to me no finer gratification than to see intelligent, earnest, deserving actors go into
the fame and fortune of being stars."

Nothing could down his immense pride in his stars. Once he was making his annual visit to England
with Dillingham. At that time Olga Nethersole, who had been playing "Carmen," was under his
management. She was also on the boat. The passenger-list included many other celebrities, among
them Madame Emma Calvé, the opera-singer, who had just made her great success in the opera
"Carmen" at the Metropolitan Opera House. Naturally there was some rivalry between the two Carmens.

At the usual ship's concert both Nethersole and Calvé inscribed their names on programs which
were auctioned off for the benefit of the disabled sailors' fund. Competition was brisk. The
card that Calvé signed fetched nine hundred dollars. When Nethersole's program was put up Frohman
led the bidding and drove it up to a thousand dollars, which he paid himself. It was all the
money he had with him. Dillingham remonstrated for what seemed a foolish extravagance.

"I wanted my star to get the best of it, and she did," was the reply.

Frohman, as is well known, would never make a contract with his stars. When some one urged
him to make written agreements, he said:

"No, I won't do it. I want them to be in a position so that if they ever become dissatisfied
they know they are free to leave me."

Like all his other stars, William Collier had no contract with Charles, merely a verbal understanding
extending over a period of years. After this agreement expired and another year and a half
had gone by, Collier one day asked Frohman if he realized that their original agreement had
run out. Frohman looked up with a start and said:

"Is that so? Well, it's all right, Willie, you know."

"Of course," said Collier, and that ended it.

The next Saturday when Collier got his pay-envelope he found inside a very charming letter
from Frohman, which said:

     I'm sorry that I overlooked the expiration of our agreement. I
     hope that you will find a little increase in your salary
     satisfactory.

There was an advance of one hundred dollars a week.

Frohman literally loved the word "star," and he delighted in the so-called "all-star casts."
He had great respect for the big names of the profession; for those who had achieved success.
He liked to do business with them.

In speaking about "all-star casts," he once said to his brother:

"I have to look after so many enterprises that I have no time to conduct a theatrical kindergarten
in developing actors or playwrights save where the play of the unknown author or the exceptional
talents of the unknown actor or actress appeal to me strongly. There is an element of safety
in considering work by experts, because the theaters I represent need quick results."

In reply to the oft-repeated question as to why he took his American stars to London when they
could play to larger audiences and make more money at home, he said:

"In the first place, such exchanges constitute the finest medium for the development of actress
or actor and the liberalizing of the public. Face to face with an English audience the American
actress finds herself confronted by new tastes, new appreciations, new demands. She must meet
them all or fail. What does this result in? Versatility, flexibility, and, in the end, a firmer
and more comprehensive hold upon her art."

When Frohman was asked to define success in theatrical management he made this answer:

"The terms of success in the theater seem to me to be the co-operating abilities of playwright
and actor with the principal burden on the actor. In other words, the play is not altogether
'the thing.' The right player in the right play is the thing."

The shaping of William Gillette's career is a good example of Frohman's definition of a successful
theatrical manager, whose best skill and talents are employed largely in the matter of manipulating
a hard-minded person to mutual advantage.

The relationship between stars and audiences is of necessity a very close one. The Frohman
philosophy, however, was not the generally accepted theory that audiences make stars.

On one of those very rare occasions in his life when he wrote for publication, he made the
following illuminating statement:

     No star or manager should feel grateful to any audience for the
     success of a play in which he has figured. A play succeeds because
     it is a living, vital thing--and that is why it has got upon the
     stage at all. There is life in it and it does not, and will not,
     die. It keeps itself alive until the opportunity comes along. Often
     a kind of instinct makes the opportunity.

     It is instinct also that prompts an audience to applaud when it is
     pleased, laugh when it is amused, weep when it is moved, hiss when
     it is dissatisfied. No actor should feel indebted to an audience
     for the recognition of good work, because that same audience that
     appears to be so friendly, at another time, when one character or
     play does not please it, will resent both actor and play. This is
     as it should be. The loyalty of English audiences to their old
     favorites is fine, but it is bad for the old favorites. It is
     stagnating.

     The various expressions of approval and disapproval that come from
     the spectators at a play are involuntary on the part of the
     spectators. They are hypnotized by the play and the acting. Who
     ever, on coming out of the theater after seeing a play that has
     pleased him, has felt a sense of happiness that his pleasure had
     also pleased the actor, or the author of the play, or the
     management of the production? Loyalty, generosity, and
     encouragement, as applied to audiences, are so many empty words.
     Play-goers who apply them to themselves cheat themselves. Miss
     Maude Adams is the only stage personage within my experience who
     has a distinct public following, loyal and encouraging to her in
     whatever she does.

Audiences interested Frohman immensely. He liked to be a part of them. He had a perfectly definite
reason for sitting in the last row of the gallery on the first nights of his productions, which
he once explained as follows:

"The best index to the probable career of any play is the back of the head of an auditor who
does not know that he is being watched. The play-goer in an orchestra stall is always half-conscious
that what he says or does may be observed. But the gallery gods and goddesses have never thought
of anything except what is happening on the stage. They may yield the time before the rise
of the curtain to watching the audience entering the theater, but once the lights are up and
the stage is revealed they have no eyes or thoughts for anything except the life unfolded by
the actors. These people in the upper part of the theater represent the masses. They are worth
watching, for they are the people who make stage successes."

Frohman had his own theories about audiences, too. Concerning them he declared:

"An American at the theater feels first and thinks afterward. A European at a play thinks first
and feels afterward. In conversation a German discusses things sitting down; a Frenchman talks
standing up. But the American discusses things walking about. Therefore each must have his
play built accordingly."

Once Frohman made this discriminating difference between English and American audiences:

"In England the pit and the gallery of the audience come to the theater, turn in their hard-earned
shillings, and demand much. Failing to get what they expect, the theater is filled with boos
and cat-calls at the end of the play. This does not mean that the play has failed. It more
nearly means that the less a man pays to get into a theater the more he demands of the play.

"An American audience is different, because it has a fine sense of humor. When an American
pays his money through the box-office window he feels that it is gone forever. Anything he
receives after that--the lights, the pictures on the walls, the music of the orchestra, the
sight of a few or many smiling faces--is so much to the good. So keen is the American play-goer's
sense of humor that often when a play is wretchedly bad it comes to the rescue, and the applause
is terrifically loud. This does not mean that the play has succeeded. It means rather that
the play will die, a victim of the deadliest of all possible criticisms--ridicule."

Nor was Frohman often deceived about a first-night verdict. He always said, "Wait for the box-office
statement on the second night."

One of his characteristic epigrammatic statements about the failure of plays was this:

"In America the question with a failure is, 'How soon can we get it off the stage?' In London
they say, 'How long will the play run even though it is a failure?'"

Indeed, Frohman's whole attitude about openings was characteristic of his deep and generous
philosophy about life. He summed up his whole creed as follows:

"A producer of plays, assuming that he is a man of experience, never feels comfortable after
a great reception has been given his play on a first night. He knows that the reception in
the theater does not always correspond to the feelings of future audiences. Every thinking
manager knows that his play, in order to succeed, must send its audience away possessed of
some distinct feeling. A successful play is a play that reflects, whatever the feeling it reflects.

"The great successes of the stage are plays that are played outside of the theater: over the
breakfast-table; in a man's office; to his business associates; in a club, as one member tells
the thrilling story of the previous night's experience to another. Great successes upon the
stage are plays of such a sort that one audience can play them over to another prospective
audience, and so make an endless chain of attendance at the theater.

"I have never in all my experience felt a success on the opening night. I have only felt my
failures.

"I invariably leave the theater after a first-night performance knowing full well that neither
my friends nor I know anything at all as to the ultimate fortune of the play we have seen."

It is a matter of record that Frohman always viewed his first nights with great nervousness.
Although he attached but little importance, save on very rare occasions, to tumultuous applause
on first nights, he was sometimes deceived by the reception that was given his productions.

He never tired of telling of one experience. He had left the theater on the first night, as
he expressed it, "with the other mourners." He returned to his office immediately to cast a
new play for the company. Yet he lived to see this play run successfully for a whole season.
This led him to say:

"There's nothing more deluding to the player and the manager than enthusiastic applause. The
fine, inspired work of a star actor often makes an audience enthusiastic to such a boisterous
extent that one forgets that it is an individual and not the play that has succeeded."

Here, as elsewhere in the Frohman outlook on life and work, one finds clear-headed logic and
reason behind the bubbling optimism.

XV

PLAYS AND PLAYERS

One day not long before he sailed on the voyage that was to take him to his death, Charles
was talking with a celebrated English playwright in his office at the Empire Theater. The conversation
suddenly turned to a discussion of life achievement.

"What do you consider the biggest thing that you have done?" asked the visitor.

Frohman rose and pointed with his stick at the rows of book-shelves about him that held the
bound copies of the plays he had produced. Then he said with a smile:

"That is what I have done. Don't you think it is a pretty good life's work?"

He was not overstepping the mark when he pointed with pride at that army of plays. This list
is the greatest monument, perhaps, to his boundless ambition and energy, for it contains the
four hundred original productions he made in America, besides the one hundred and twenty-five
plays he put on in London. That Charles should have produced so many plays is not surprising.
He adored the theater; it was his very being. To him, in truth, all the world was a stage.

Everything that he saw as he walked the streets or rode in a cab or viewed from a railway train
he re-visualized and considered in the terms of the playhouse. If he saw an impressive bit
of scenery he would say, "Wouldn't that make a fine background?" If he heard certain murmurs
in the country or the tumult of a crowd on the highway, he instinctively said, "How fine it
would be to reproduce that sound."

He only read books with a view of their adaptability to plays. Where other men found diversion
and recreation in golfing, motoring, or walking, Charles sought entertainment in reading manuscripts.
He was never without a play; when he traveled he carried dozens.

In the matter of plays Frohman had what was little less than a contempt for the avowedly academic.
He refused to be drawn into discussions of the so-called "high brow" drama. When some one asked
him to name the greatest of English dramatists he replied, quick as a flash:

"The one who writes the last great play."

"Whom do you consider the greatest American dramatist?" was the question once put to him. His
smiling answer was:

"The one whose play the greatest number of good Americans go to see."

On this same occasion he was asked, "What seat in the theater do you consider the best to view
a drama or a musical comedy from?"

"The paid one," he retorted.

Back in Charles's mind was a definite and well-ordered policy about plays. His first production
on any stage was a melodrama, and, though in later years he ran the whole range from grave
to gay, he was always true to his first love. This is one reason why Sardou's "Diplomacy" was,
in many respects, his ideal of a play. It has thrills, suspense, love interests, and emotion.
He revived it again and again, and it never failed to give him a certain pleasure.

Once in London Frohman unbosomed himself about play requirements, and this is what he said:

"I start out by asking certain requirements of every piece. If it be a drama, it must have
healthfulness and comedy as well as seriousness. We are a young people, but only in the sense
of healthy-mindedness. There is no real taste among us for the erotic or the decadent. It is
foreign to us because, as a people, we have not felt the corroding touch of decadence. Nor
is life here all drab. Hence I expect lights as well as shadows in every play I accept.

"Naturally, I am also influenced by the fitness of the chief parts for my chief stars, but
I often purchase the manuscript at once on learning its central idea. I commissioned Clyde
Fitch and Cosmo Gordon-Lennox to go to work on 'Her Sister' after half an hour's account of
the main idea. Ethel Barrymore's work in that play is the best instance that I can give of
the artistic growth of that actress. The particular skill she had obtained--and this is the
test of an actress worth remembering--is the art of acting scenes essentially melodramatic
in an unmelodramatic manner. After all, what is melodrama? Life itself is melodrama, and life
put upon the stage only seems untrue when it is acted melodramatically--that is, unnaturally."

The foremost quality that Frohman sought in his plays was human interest. His appraisal of
a dramatic product was often influenced by his love for a single character or for certain sentimental
or emotional speeches. He would almost invariably discuss these plays with his intimates. Often
he would act out the whole piece in a vivid and graphic manner and enlarge upon the situations
that appealed to his special interest.

Plays thus described by him were found to be extremely entertaining and diverting to his friends,
but when presented on the stage to a dispassionate audience they did not always fare so well.
A notable example was "The Hyphen." The big, patriotic speech of the old German-American in
the third act made an immense impression on Frohman when he read the play. It led him to produce
the piece in record time. He recited it to every caller; he almost lost sight of the rest of
the play in his admiration for the central effort. But the audience and the critics only saw
this speech as part of a long play.

What Charles lacked in his study of plays in manuscript was the analytical quality. He could
feel that certain scenes and speeches would have an emotional appeal, but he could not probe
down beneath the surface for the why and the wherefore. For analysis, as for details, he had
scant time. He accepted plays mainly for their general effect.

He was very susceptible to any charm that a play held out. If he found the characters sympathetic,
attractive, and lovable, that would outweigh any objections made on technical grounds. When
once he determined to produce a play, only a miracle could prevent him. The more his associates
argued to the contrary, the more dogged he became. He had superb confidence in his judgment;
yet he invariably accepted failure with serenity and good spirit. He always assumed the responsibility.
He listened sometimes to suggestions, but his views were seldom colored by them.

His association with men like J. M. Barrie, Haddon Chambers, Paul Potter, William Gillette,
Arthur Wing Pinero, and Augustus Thomas gave him a loftier insight into the workings of the
drama. He was quick to absorb ideas, and he had a strong and retentive memory for details.

Frohman loved to present farce. He enjoyed this type of play himself because it appealed to
his immense sense of humor. He delighted in rehearsing the many complications and entanglements
which arise in such plays. The enthusiasm with which French audiences greeted their native
plays often misled him. He felt that American theater-goers would be equally uproarious. But
often they failed him.

The same thing frequently happened with English plays. He would be swept off his feet by a
British production; he was at once sure that it would be a success in New York. But New York,
more than once, upset this belief. The reason was that Frohman saw these plays as an Englishman.
He had the cosmopolitan point of view that the average play-goer in America lacked.

This leads to the interesting subject of "locality" in plays. Frohman once summed up this whole
question:

"As I go back and forth, crossing and recrossing the Atlantic, the audiences on both sides
seem more and more like one. Always, of course, each has his own particular viewpoint, according
to the side of the Atlantic I happen to be on. But often they think the same, each from its
own angle.

"You bring your English play to America. Nobody is at all disturbed by the mention of Park
Lane or Piccadilly Circus. If there is drama in the play, if in itself it interests and holds
the audience, nobody pays any attention to its locality or localisms.

"But an English audience sitting before an American play hears mention of West Twenty-third
Street or Washington Square, and while it is wondering just where and what these localities
are an important incident in the dramatic action slips by unnoticed. Not that English audiences
are at all prejudiced against American plays. They take them in the same general way that Americans
take English plays. Each public asks, 'What have you got?' As soon as it hears that the play
is good it is interested.

"English audiences, for example, were quick to discover the fun in 'The Dictator' when Mr.
Collier acted it in London, though it was full of the local color of New York, both in the
central character and in the subject. Somehow the type and the speeches seemed to have a sort
of universal humor. I tried it first on Barrie. He marked in the manuscript the places that
he could understand. The piece never went better in America.

"On the other hand, one reason why 'Brewster's Millions' did not go well in London was because
the severely logical British mind took it all as a business proposition. The problem was sedately
figured out on the theory that the young man did not spend the inherited millions.

"If the locality of an American play happens to be a mining village, it is better to change
its scenes to a similar village in Australia when you take the play to London. Then the audience
is sure to understand. The public of London gave 'The Lion and the Mouse' an enthusiastic first
night, but it turned out that they had not comprehended the play. It was unthinkable to them
that a judge should be disgraced and disbarred by a political 'ring.'"

The ideal play for Charles Frohman was always the one that he had in mind for a particular
star. His special desire, however, was for strong and emotional love as the dominant force
in the drama. He felt that all humanity was interested in love, and he believed it established
a congenial point of contact between the stage and the audience.

Although he did not especially aspire to Shakespearian production, he used the great bard's
works as models for appraising other plays. "Shakespeare invented farce comedy," he once said,
"and whenever I consider the purchase of such a thing I compare its scenes with the most famous
of all farces, 'The Taming of the Shrew.' It goes without saying that when it comes to the
stage of the production, my aim is to imbue the performance with a spirit akin to that contained
in Shakespeare's humorous masterpiece."

Frohman often "went wrong" on plays. He merely accepted these mistakes as part of the big human
hazard and went on to something new. His amazing series of errors of judgment with plays by
Augustus Thomas is one of the traditions of the American theater. The reader already knows
how he refused "Arizona" and "The Earl of Pawtucket," and how they made fortunes for other
managers.

One of the most extraordinary of these Thomas mistakes was with "The Witching Hour." It was
about the only time that he permitted his own decision to be swayed by outside influence, and
it cost him dearly.

The author read the play to Frohman on a torrid night in midsummer. Frohman, as usual, sat
cross-legged on a divan and sipped orangeade incessantly.

Thomas, who has all the art and eloquence of a finished actor, read his work with magnetic
effect. When he finished Frohman sat absolutely still for nearly five minutes. It seemed hours
to the playwright, who awaited the decision with tense interest. Finally Frohman said in a whisper:

"That is almost too beautiful to bear."

A pause followed. Then he said, eagerly:

"When shall we do it; whom do you want for star?"

"I'd like to have Gillette," replied Thomas.

"You can't have him," responded Frohman. "He's engaged for something else."

With this the session ended. Frohman seemed strangely under the spell of the play. It made
him silent and meditative.

The next day he gave the manuscript to some of his close associates to read. They thought it
was too psychological for a concrete dramatic success. To their great surprise he agreed with them.

"The Witching Hour" was produced by another manager and it ran a whole season in New York,
and then duplicated its success on the road. This experience made Frohman all the more determined
to keep his own counsel and follow his instincts with regard to plays thereafter, and he did.

Charles regarded play-producing just as he regarded life--as a huge adventure. An amusing thing
happened during the production of "The Other Girl," a play by Augustus Thomas, in which a pugilist
has a prominent rôle.

Lionel Barrymore was playing the part of the prize-fighter, who was generally supposed to be
a stage replica of "Kid" McCoy, then in the very height of his fistic powers. In the piece
the fighter warns his friends not to bet on a certain fight. The lines, in substance, were:

"You have been pretty loyal to me, but I am giving you a tip not to put any money down on that
'go' in October."

One day Frohman found Barrymore pacing nervously up and down in front of his office.

"What's the matter, Lionel?" he asked.

"Well," was the reply, "I am very much disturbed about something. I made a promise to 'Kid'
McCoy, and I don't know how to keep it. You know I have a line in the play in which the prize-fighter
warns his friends not to bet on him in a certain fight in October. The 'Kid,' who has been
at the play nearly every night since we opened, now has a real fight on for October, and he
is afraid it will give people the idea that it is a 'frame-up.'"

"You mean to say that you want me to change Mr. Thomas's lines?" asked Frohman, seriously.

"I can't ask you to do that," answered Barrymore. "But I promised the 'Kid' to speak to you
about it, and I have kept my word."

Frohman thought a moment. Then he said, gravely:

"All right, Lionel, I'll postpone the date of the fight in the play until November, even December,
but not a day later."

Frohman was not without his sense of imitation. He was quick to follow up a certain type or
mood whether it was in the vogue of an actor or the character of a play. This story will illustrate:

One night early in February, 1895, Frohman sat in his wonted corner at Delmonico's, then on
Broadway and Twenty-sixth Street. He had "The Fatal Card," by Chambers and Stephenson, on the
boards at Palmer's Theater; he also had A. M. Palmer's Stock Company on the road in Sydney
Grundy's play "The New Woman." This naturally gave him a lively interest in Mr. Palmer's productions.

Paul Potter, who was then house dramatist at Palmer's, bustled into the restaurant with the
plot of a new novel which had been brought to his attention by the news-stand boy at the Waldorf.
Frohman listened to his recital with interest.

"What is the name of the book?" he asked.

"Trilby," replied Potter.

"Well," he continued, "it ought to be called after that conjurer chap, Bengali, or whatever
his name is. However, go ahead. Get Lackaye back from 'The District Attorney' company to which
Palmer has lent him. Engage young Ditrichstein by all means for one of your Bohemians. Call
in Virginia Harned and the rest of the stock company. And there you are."

With uncanny precision he had cast the leading rôles perfectly and on the impulse of the moment.

During the fortnight of the incubation of the play Potter saw Frohman nightly, for they were
now fast friends. Frohman was curiously fascinated by "Bengali," as he insisted upon calling
Svengali.

"We do it next Monday in Boston," said Potter, "and I count on your coming to see it."

Frohman went to Boston to see the second performance. After the play he and Potter walked silently
across the Common to the Thorndyke Hotel. In his room Frohman broke into speech:

"They are roasting it awfully in New York," he began. "Yet Joe Jefferson says it will go around
the world." Then he added, "They say you have cut out all the Bohemian stuff."

"Nevertheless," replied Potter, "W. A. Brady has gone to New York to-night to offer Mr. Palmer
ten thousand dollars on account for the road rights."

"Well," said Frohman, showing his hand at last, "Jefferson and Brady are right, and if Palmer
will let me in I'll go half and half, or, if he prefers, I'll take it all."

At supper after the first performance at the Garden Theater in New York, Frohman advised Sir
Herbert Tree to capture the play for London. Henceforth, wherever he traveled, "Trilby" seemed
to pursue him.

"I've seen your old 'Bengali,'" he wrote Potter, "in Rome, Vienna, Berlin, everywhere. It haunts
me. And, as you cut out the good Bohemian stuff, I'll use it myself at the Empire."

He did so in Clyde Fitch's version of "La Vie de Bohème," which was called "Bohemia."

"How did it go?" Potter wrote him from Switzerland.

"Pretty well," replied Frohman. "Unfortunately we left out 'Bengali.'"

On more than one occasion Frohman produced a play for the mere pleasure of doing it. He put
on a certain little dramatic fantasy. It was foredoomed to failure and held the boards only a week.

"Why did you do this play?" asked William H. Crane.

"Because I wanted to see it played," answered Frohman. "I knew it would not be successful,
but I simply had to do it. I saw every performance and I liked it better every time I saw it."

Often Frohman would make a contract with a playwright for a play, and long before the first
night he would realize that it had no chance. Yet he kept his word with the author, and it
was always produced.

The case of "The Heart of a Thief," by the late Paul Armstrong, is typical. Frohman paid him
an advance of fifteen hundred dollars. After a week of rehearsals every one connected with
the play except Armstrong realized that it was impossible.

Frohman, however, gave it an out-of-town opening and brought it to the Hudson Theater in New
York, where it ran for one week. When he decided to close it he called the company together
and said:

"You've done the best you could. It's all my fault. I thought it was a good play. I was mistaken."

Frohman took vast pride in the "clean quality" of his plays, as he often phrased it. His whole
theatrical career was a rebuke to the salacious. He originally owned Edward Sheldon's dramatization
of Suderman's "The Song of Songs." On its production in Philadelphia it was assailed by the
press as immoral. Frohman immediately sold it to A. H. Woods, who presented it with enormous
financial success in New York.

He was scrupulous to the last degree in his business relations with playwrights. Once a well-known
English author, who was in great financial need, cabled to his agent in America that he would
sell outright for two thousand dollars all the dramatic rights to a certain play of his that
Frohman and an associate had on the road at that time. The associate thought it was a fine
opportunity and personally cabled the money through the agent. Then he went to Frohman and
said, with great satisfaction:

"I've made some money for us to-day."

"How's that?" asked Frohman.

Then his associate told the story of the author's predicament and what he had done. He stood
waiting for commendation. Instead, Frohman's face darkened; he rang a bell, and when his secretary
appeared he said:

"Please wire Blank [mentioning the playwright's name] that the money cabled him to-day was
an advance on future royalties."

Then he turned to his associate and said:

"Never, so long as you work with me or are associated with me in any enterprise, take advantage
of the distress of author or actor. This man's play was good enough for us to produce; it is
still good enough to earn money. When it makes money for us it also makes money for him."

* * *

By the force of his magnetic personality Charles amiably coerced more than one unwilling playwright
into submission to his will. An experience with Margaret Mayo will illustrate.

Miss Mayo returned on the same steamer with him when he made his last trip from London to the
United States. As they walked up the gang-plank at Liverpool the manager told the author that
he had a play he wished her to adapt.

"But I have decided to adapt no more plays," said Miss Mayo.

"Never mind," replied Frohman. "We will see about that."

Needless to say, by the time the ship reached New York the play was in Miss Mayo's trunk and
the genial tyrant had exacted a promise for the adaptation.

Miss Mayo immediately went to her country house up the Hudson. For a week she reproached herself
for having fallen a victim to the Frohman beguilements. In this state of mind she could do
no work on the manuscript.

With his astonishing intuition Frohman divined that the author was making no progress, so he
sent her a note asking her to come to town, and adding, "I have something to show you."

Miss Mayo entered the office at the Empire determined to throw herself upon the managerial
mercy and beg to be excused from the commission. But before she could say a word Frohman said,
cheerily:

"I've found the right title for our play."

Then he rang a bell, and a boy appeared holding a tightly rolled poster in his hand. At a signal
he unfolded it, and the astonished playwright beheld these words in large red and white letters:

      Charles Frohman

         Presents

    I DIDN'T WANT TO DO IT

    A Farce in Three Acts

     By Margaret Mayo

Of course the usual thing happened. No one could resist such an attack. Miss Mayo went back
to the country without protest and she finished the play. It was destined, however, to be produced
by some other hand than Frohman's.

* * *

Frohman always sought seclusion when he wanted to work out the plans for a production. He sometimes
went to extreme lengths to achieve aloofness. An incident related by Goodwin will illustrate this.

During the run of "Nathan Hale" in New York Goodwin entered his dressing-room one night, turned
on the electric light, and was amazed to see Charles sitting huddled up in a corner.

"What are you doing here, Charley?" asked Goodwin.

"I am casting a new play, and came here to get some inspiration. Good night," was the reply.
With that he walked out.

* * *

There was one great secret in Charles Frohman's life. It is natural that it should center about
the writing of a play; it is natural, too, that this most intimate of incidents in the career
of the great manager should be told by his devoted friend and colleague of many years, Paul Potter.

Here it is as set down by Mr. Potter:

We had hired a rickety cab at the Place Saint-François in Lausanne, and had driven along the
lake of Geneva to Morges, where, sitting on the terrace of the Hôtel du Mont Blanc, we were
watching the shore of Savoy across the lake, and the gray old villages of Thonon and Evian,
and the mountains, rising ridge upon ridge, behind them. And Frohman, being in lyric mood,
fell to quoting "The Blue Hills Far Away," for Owen Meredith's song was one of the few bits
of verse that clung in his memory.

"Odd," said he, relapsing into prose, "that a chap should climb hill after hill, thinking he
had reached his goal, and should forever find the blue hills farther and farther away."

While he was ruminating the clouds lifted, and there, in a gap of the hills, was the crest
of Mont Blanc, with its image of Napoleon lying asleep in the snow.

I have seen Frohman in most of the critical moments of his life, but I never saw him utterly
awe-stricken till then.

"Gee," said he, at length, "what a mountain to climb!"

"It is sixty miles away," I ventured to suggest.

"Well," he remarked, "I'll climb it some day. As John Russell plastered the Rocky Mountains
with 'The City Directory,' so I'll hang a shingle from the top of Mont Blanc: 'Ambition: a
comedy in four acts by Charles Frohman.'" And as we went home to Ouchy he told me the secret
desire of his heart.

He wanted to write a play.

"Isn't it enough to be a theatrical manager?" I asked.

"No," said he, "a theatrical manager is a joke. The public thinks he spends his days in writing
checks and his nights in counting the receipts. Why, when I wanted to become a depositor at
the Union Bank in London, the cashier asked me my profession. 'Theatrical manager,' I replied.
'Humph!' said the cashier, taken aback. 'Well, never mind, Mr. Frohman; we'll put you down
as 'a gentleman.'"

"But is a playwright," I asked, "more highly reputed than a theatrical manager?"

"Not in America," said Frohman. "Most Americans think that the actors and actresses write their
own parts. I was on the Long Branch boat the other day and met a well-known Empire first-nighter.
'What are you going to give us next season, Frohman?' he said.

"'I open with a little thing by Sardou,' I replied.

"'Sardou!' he cried. 'Who in thunder is Sardou?'

"All the same," Frohman continued, "I mean to be a playwright. Didn't Lester Wallack write
'Rosedale' and 'The Veteran'? Didn't Augustin Daly make splendid adaptations of German farces?
Doesn't Belasco turn out first-class dramas? Then why not I? I mean to learn the game. Don't
give me away, but watch my progress in play-making as we jog along through life."

He got his first tip from Pinero. "When I have sketched out a play," observed the author of
"The Second Mrs. Tanqueray," "I go and live among the characters."

Frohman had no characters of his own, but he held in his brain a fabulous store of other people's
plays. And whenever they had a historical or a literary origin he ran these origins to their
lair. At Ferney, on the Lake of Geneva, he cared nothing about Voltaire; he wanted to see the
place where the free-thinkers gathered in A. M. Palmer's production of "Daniel Rochat." At
Geneva he was not concerned with Calvin, but with memories of a Union Square melodrama, "The
Geneva Cross." At Lyons he expected the ghosts of Claude Melnotte and Pauline to meet him at
the station. In Paris he allowed Napoleon to slumber unnoticed in the Invalides while he hunted
the Faubourg Saint-Antoine for traces of "The Tale of Two Cities," and the Place de la Concorde
for the site of the guillotine on which Sidney Carton died, and the Latin Quarter haunts of
Mimi and Musette, and the Bal Bullier where Trilby danced, and the Concert des Ambassadeurs
where Zaza bade her lover good-by.

Any production was an excuse for these expeditions. Sir Herbert Tree had staged "Colonel Newcome";
we had ourselves plotted a dramatization of "Pendennis"; Mrs. Fiske had given "Vanity Fair";
so off we went, down the Boulevard Saint-Germain, searching for the place, duly placarded,
where Thackeray lunched in the days of the "Paris Sketch-book" and the "Ballad of Bouillabaisse."

In the towns of Kent we got on the trail of Dickens with the enthusiasm of a Hopkinson Smith;
in London, between Drury Lane and Wardour Street, we hunted for the Old Curiosity Shop; in
Yarmouth we discovered the place where Peggotty's boat-hut might have lain on the sands. With
William Seymour, who knew every street from his study of "The Rivals," we listened to the abbey
bells of Bath. And when "Romeo and Juliet" was to be revived with Sothern and Marlowe, Frohman
even proposed that we should visit Verona. He only abandoned the idea on discovering that the
Veronese had no long-distance telephones, and that, while wandering among the tombs of the
Montagus and Capulets, he would be cut off from his London office.

Having thus steeped himself in the atmosphere of his work, he set forth to learn the rules
of the game. I met him in Paris on his return from New York. "How go the rules?" I asked.

"Rotten," said he. "Our American playwrights say there are no rules; with them it is all inspiration.
The Englishmen say that rules exist, but what the rules are they either don't know or won't tell."

We went to the Concert Rouge. Those were the happy days when there were no frills; when the
price of admission was charged with what you drank; when Saint-Saëns accompanied his "Samson
and Delilah" with an imaginary flute obligato on a walking-stick; when Massenet, with his librettist,
Henri Cain, dozed quietly through the meditation of "Thaïs"; when the students and their girls
forgot frivolity under the spell of "L'Arlesienne."

In a smoky corner sat a group of well-known French playwrights, headed by G. A. Caillavet,
afterward famous as author of "Le Roi." They were indulging in a heated but whispered discussion.
They welcomed Frohman cordially, then returned to the debate.

"What are they talking about?" asked Frohman.

"The rules of the drama," said I.

"Then there are rules!" cried the manager, eagerly.

"Ask Caillavet," said I.

"Rules?" exclaimed Caillavet, who spoke English. "Are there rules of painting, sculpture, music?
Why, the drama is a mass of rules! It is nothing but rules."

"And how long," faltered Frohman, thinking of his play--"how long would it take to learn them?"

"A lifetime at the very least," answered Caillavet. Disconsolate, Frohman led me out into the
Rue de Tournon. Heartbroken, he convoyed me into Foyot's, and drowned his sorrows in a grenadine.

From that hour he was a changed man. He apparently put aside all thought of the drama whose
name was to be stenciled on the summit of Mont Blanc; yet, nevertheless, he applied himself
assiduously to learning the principles on which the theater was based.

Another winter had passed before we sat side by side on the terrace of the Café Napolitain.

"I have asked Harry Pettitt, the London melodramatist," Frohman said, "to write me a play.
'I warn you, Frohman,' he replied, 'that I have only one theme--the Persecuted Woman.' Dion
Boucicault, who was present, said, 'Add the Persecuted Girl.' Joseph Jefferson was with us,
and Jefferson remarked, 'Add the Persecuted Man.' So was Henry Irving, who said: 'Pity is the
trump card; but be Aristotelian, my boy; throw in a little Terror; with Pity I can generally
go through a season, as with 'Charles the First' or 'Olivia'; with Terror and Pity combined
I am liable to have something that will outlast my life." And Irving mentioned "The Bells"
and "The Lyons Mail."

"But who will write you your Terror and Pity?" I asked Frohman.

"If Terror means 'thrill,'" said Frohman, "I can count on Belasco and Gillette. If Pity means
'sympathy,' the Englishmen do it pretty well. So does Fitch. So do the French, who used to
be masters of the game."

"You don't expect," I said, "to pick up another 'Two Orphans,' a second 'Ticket of Leave Man'?"

"I'm not such a fool," said Frohman. "But I've got hold of something now that will help me
to feed my stock company in New York." And off we went with Dillingham to see "The Girl from
Maxim's" at the Nouveautés.

When we got home to the Ritz Frohman discussed the play after his manner: "Do you know," he
said, "I find the element of pity quite as strongly developed in these French farces as in
the Ambigu melodramas. The truant husband leaves home, goes out for a good time, gets buffeted
and bastinadoed for his pains, and when the compassionate audience says, 'He has had enough;
let up,' he comes humbly home to the bosom of his family and is forgiven. Where can you find
a more human theme than that?"

"Then you hold," said I, "that even in a French farce the events should be reasonable?"

"I wouldn't buy one," he replied, "if I didn't consider its basis thoroughly human. Dion Boucicault
told me long ago that farce, like tragedy, must be founded on granite. 'Farce, well done,'
said he, 'is the most difficult form of dramatic composition. That is why, if successful, it
is far the most remunerative.'"

Years went by. The stock company was dead. "Charles Frohman's Comedians" had disappeared. The
"stars" had supplanted them. Frohman was at the zenith of his career. American papers called
him "the Napoleon of the Drama." Prime Ministers courted him in the grill-room of the London
Savoy. The Paris Figaro announced the coming of "the celebrated impresario." I heard him call
my name in the crowd at the Gare du Nord and we bundled into a cab.

"So you're a great man now," I said.

"Am I?" he remarked. "There's one thing you can bet on. If they put me on a throne to-day they
are liable to yank me off to-morrow."

"And how's your own play getting along?"

"Don't!" he winced. "Let us go to the Snail."

In the cozy recesses of the Escargot d'Or, near the Central Markets, he unraveled the mysteries
of the "star system" which had made him famous.

"It's the opposite of all we ever believed," he said, while the mussels and shell-fish were
being heaped up before him. "Good-by to Caillavet and his rules. Good-by, Terror and Pity.
Good-by, dear French farce. Give me a pretty girl with a smile, an actor with charm, and I
will defy our old friend Aristotle."

"Is it as easy as that?" I asked, in amazement.

"No," said he, "it's confoundedly difficult to find the girl with the smile and the actor with
charm. It is pure accident. There are players of international reputation who can't draw a
dollar. There are chits of chorus-girls who can play a night of sixteen hundred dollars in
Youngstown, Ohio."

"And the play doesn't matter?" I inquired.

"There you've got me," said Frohman, as the crêpes Suzette arrived in their chafing-dish. "My
interest makes me pretend that the play's the thing. I congratulate foreign authors on a week
of fourteen thousand dollars in Chicago, and they go away delighted. But I know, all the time,
that of this sum the star drew thirteen thousand nine hundred dollars, and the author the rest."

"To what do you attribute such a state of affairs?"

"Feminine curiosity. God bless the women."

"Are there no men in your audiences?" I asked.

"Only those whom the women take," said Frohman. "The others go to musical shows. Have some
more crêpes Suzette."

"But what do the critics say?" I persisted.

"My dear Paul," said Frohman, solemnly, "they call me a 'commercial manager' because I won't
play Ibsen or Maeterlinck. They didn't help me when I tried for higher game. I had years of
poverty, years of privation. To-day I take advantage of a general feminine desire to view Miss
Tottie Coughdrop; and, to the critics, I'm a mere Bulgarian, a 'commercial manager.' So was
Lester Wallack when he admitted 'The World' to his classic theater. So was Augustin Daly when
he banished Shakespeare in favor of 'The Great Ruby.' If the critics want to reform the stage,
let them begin by reforming the public."

In his cabin on the Lusitania he showed me a mass of yellow manuscript, scribbled over with
hieroglyphics in blue pencil.

"That's my play," he said, very simply.

"Shall I take it home and read it?" I asked.

"No," he replied. "I will try it on Barrie and bring it back in better shape."

So he shook hands and sailed with his cherished drama, which reposes to-day, not on the summit
of Mont Blanc, but at the bottom of the Irish Sea.

XVI

"C. F." AT REHEARSALS

The real Charles Frohman emerged at rehearsals. The shy, sensitive man who shunned the outside
world here stood revealed as a dynamic force. Yet he ruled by personality, because he believed
in personality. He did every possible thing to bring out the personal element in the men and
women in his companies.

In rehearsing he showed one of the most striking of his traits. It was a method of speech that
was little short of extraordinary. It grew out of the fact that his vocabulary could not express
his enormous imagination. Instead of words he made motions. It was, as Augustus Thomas expressed
it, "an exalted pantomime." Those who worked with him interpreted these gestures, for between
him and his stars existed the finest kinship.

Frohman seldom finished a sentence, yet those who knew him always understood the unuttered
part. Even when he would give a star the first intimation of a new rôle he made it a piece
of pantomime interspersed with short, jerky sentences.

William Faversham had complained about having two very bad parts. When he went to see Frohman
to hear about the third, this is the way the manager expressed it to him:

"New play--see?... Fine part.--First act--you know--romantic--light through the window ...
nice deep tones of your voice, you see?... Then, audience say 'Ah!'--then the girl--see?--In
the room ... you ... one of those big scenes--then, all subdued--light--coming through window.--See?--And
then--curtain--audience say 'Great!' ... Now, second act ... all that tremolo business--you
know?--Then you get down to work ... a tremendous scene ... let your voice go.... Great climax
... (Oh, a great play this--a great part!) ... Now, last act--simple--nice--lovable--refined
... sad tones in your voice--and, well, you know--and then you make a big hit.... Well, now
we will rehearse this in about a week--and you will be tickled to death.... This is a great
play--fine part.... Now, you see Humphreys--he will arrange everything."

Of course Faversham went away feeling that he was about forty-four feet tall, that he was a
great actor, and had a wonderful part.

Like the soldier who thrills at the sound of battle, Frohman became galvanized when he began
to work in the theater. He forgot time, space, and all other things save the task at hand.
To him it was as the breath of life.

One reason was that the theater was his world; the other that Charles was, first and foremost,
a director and producer. His sensibility and force, his feeling and authority, his intelligence
and comprehension in matters of dramatic artistry were best, almost solely, known to his players
and immediate associates. No stage-director of his day was more admired and desired than he.

At rehearsal the announcement, "C. F. is in front," meant for every one in the cast an eager
enthusiasm and a desire to do something unusually good to merit his commendation. His enormous
energy, aided by his diplomacy and humor, inspired the player to highest performance.

Such expressions as, "But, Mr. Frohman, this is my way of doing it," or "I feel it this way,"
and like manifestations of actors' conceit or argument would never be met with ridicule or
contempt. Sometimes he would say, "Try it my way first," or "Do you like that?" or "Does this
give you a better feeling?" He never said, "You must do thus and so." He was alert to every
suggestion. As a result he got the very best out of his people. It was part of his policy of
developing the personal element.

The genial human side of the man always softened his loudest tones, although he was seldom
vehement. So gentle was his speech at rehearsals that the actors often came down to the footlights
to hear his friendly yet earnest direction.

Frohman had that first essential of a great dramatic director--a psychologic mind in the study
of the various human natures of his actors and of the ideas they attempted to portray.

He was an engaging and fascinating figure, too, as he molded speech and shaped the play. An
old friend who saw him in action thus describes the picture:

"Here a comedian laughs aloud with the comic quaintness of the director. There a little lady,
new to the stage, is made to feel at home and confident. The proud old-timer is sufficiently
ameliorated to approve of the change suggested. The leading lady trembles with the shock of
realization imparted by the stout little man with chubby smile who, seated alone in the darkened
auditorium, conveys his meaning as with invisible wires, quietly, quaintly, simply, and rationally,
so as to stir the actors' souls to new sensibilities, awaken thought, and viviby(?) glow of
passion, sentiment, or humor."

At rehearsals Frohman usually sat alone about the tenth row back. He rarely rose from his seat,
but by voice and gesture indicated the moves on his dramatic chess-board. When it became necessary
for him to go on the stage he did so with alacrity. He suggested, by marvelously simple indications
and quick transitions, the significance of the scene or the manner of the presentation.

There was a curious similarity, in one respect, between the rehearsing methods of Charles Frohman
and Augustin Daly. This comparison is admirably made by Frohman's life-long friend Franklin
H. Sargent, Director of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and the Empire School of Acting,
in which Frohman was greatly interested and which he helped in every possible way. He said:

"Like a great painter with a few stray significant lines of drawing, Frohman revealed the spirit
and the idea. In this respect he resembled Augustin Daly, who could furnish much dramatic intuition
by a grunt and a thumb-joint. Both men used similar methods and possessed equal keenness of
intelligence and sense of humor, except that Frohman was rarely sarcastic. Daly usually was.
Frohman's demeanor and relationship to his actors was kindly and considerate. Rules, and all
strictly enforced, were in Daly's policy of theater management. Frohman did not resort to rules.
He regulated his theaters on broad principles, but with firm decision when necessary. In Daly's
theater there was obedience; in Frohman's theater there was a willing co-operation. The chief
interest of both managers was comedy--comedy of two opposite kinds. Daly's jest was the artificial
German farce and Shakespearian refinement. Frohman's tastes ranged between the French school--Sardou's
'Diplomacy' and the modern realities--and the pure sentiments of Barrie's 'The Little Minister.'
Frohman was never traditional in an artificial sense, though careful to retain the fundamental
original treatment of imported foreign plays.

"The verities, the humanities, the joys of life always existed and grew with him as with a
good landscape architect who keeps in nature's ways. His departures into the classicism of
Stephen Phillips, the romanticism of Shakespeare, or the exotic French society drama were never
as valuable and delightful as his treatment of modern sentiment and comedy."

In this respect a comparison with the workmanship of another genius of the American theater,
David Belasco, is inevitable. Belasco, the great designer and painter of theatrical pictures,
holds quite a different point of view and possesses different abilities from those of Charles
Frohman. Belasco revels in the technique of the actor. Frohman's métier was the essentials.
The two men were in many ways complements of each other and per force admirers of each other
and friends. In brief, Belasco is the technicist; Frohman was the humanitarian.

Charles usually left details of scenery, lighting, and minor matters to his stage-manager.
"Look after the little things," he would say, in business as in art, for he himself was interested
only in the larger themes. The lesser people of the play, the early rehearsing of involved
business, was shaped by his subordinates. The smaller faults and the mannerisms of the actor
did not trouble him, provided the main thought and feeling were there. He would merely laugh
at a suggestion to straighten out the legs and walk, to lengthen the drawl, or to heighten
the cockney accent of a prominent member of his company, saying:

"The public likes him for these natural things."

Frohman's ear was musically sensitive. The intonations, inflections, the tone colors of voice,
orchestral and incidental music, found him an exacting critic.

To plays he gave thought, study, and preparation. The author received much advice and direction
from him. He himself possessed the expert knowledge and abilities of a playwright, as is always
true of every good stage-director. Each new play was planned, written, cast, and revised completely
under his guidance and supervision. His stage-manager had been instructed in advance in the
"plotting" of its treatment. The first rehearsals were usually left in charge of this assistant.

At the first rehearsals Frohman made little or no comments. He watched and studied in silence.
Thereafter his master-mind would reveal itself in reconstruction of lines and scenes, re-accentuation
of the high and low lights of the story involved, and improvement of the acting and representation.
Frohman consulted with his authors, artists, and assistants more in his office than in actual
rehearsal. In the theater he was sole auditor and judge. His stage-manager would rarely make
suggestions during rehearsals unless beckoned to and asked by his manager. When the office-boy
came in at rehearsal on some important business errand, he got a curt dismissal, or at most
a brief consideration of the despatch, contract, or message.

Here is a vivid view of Frohman at rehearsal by one who often sat under the magic of his direction:

"In the dim theater he sits alone, the stage-manager being at a respectable distance. If by
chance there are one or two others present directly concerned in the production, they all sit
discreetly in the extreme rear. The company is grouped in the wings, never in the front. The
full stage lights throw into prominence the actors in the scene in rehearsal. Occasionally
the voice of Mr. Frohman calls from the auditorium, and the direction is sometimes repeated
more loudly by the stage-manager. Everybody is listening and watching.

"The wonderfully responsive and painstaking nature of Maude Adams is fully alive, alert, and
interested in Mr. Frohman's directions even in the scenes in which she has no personal part,
during which, very likely, she will half recline on the floor near the proscenium--all eyes
and ears.

"Or perhaps it is a strong emotional scene in which Margaret Anglin is the central character.
At the theatrically most effective point in the acting the voice breaks in, Miss Anglin stops,
hastens to the footlights, and listens intently to a few simple, quiet words. Over her face
pass shadow and storm, and in her eyes tears form. Again she begins the scene, and yet again,
with cumulative passion. Each time, with each new incitement from the sympathetic director,
new power, deeper feeling, keener thought develop, until a great glow of meaning and of might
fills the stage and the theater with its radiance. Mr. Frohman is at last satisfied, and so
the play moves on."

Just as Frohman loved humor in life, so did he have a rare gift for comedy rehearsal. William
Faversham pays him this tribute:

"I think Charles Frohman was the greatest comedy stage-manager that I have known. I do not
think there was a comedy ever written that he could not rehearse and get more out of than any
other stage-director I have ever seen--and I have seen a good many. If he had devoted himself,
as director, entirely to one company, I think he would have produced the greatest organization
of comedians that Europe or America ever saw. I don't suppose there is a comedy scene that
he couldn't rehearse and play better than any of the actors who were engaged to play the parts.
The subtle touches that he put into 'Lord and Lady Algy' were extraordinary. The same with
'The Counsellor's Wife,' with 'Bohemia,' and again with a play of H. V. Esmond's called 'Imprudence,'
which we did. He seemed to love this play, and I never saw a piece grow so in all my life as
it did under his direction. All the successes made by the actors and actresses in that play
were entirely through the work of Charles Frohman.

"He had a keen sense of sound, a tremendous ear for tones of comedy. He could get ten or twelve
inflections out of a speech of about four lines; he had a wonderful method of getting the actors
to accept and project these tones over the footlights. He got what he wanted from them in the
most extraordinary way. With his disjointed, pantomimic method of instruction he was able to
transfer to them, as if by telepathy, what he wanted.

"For instance, he would say: 'Now, you go over there ... then, just as he is looking at you
... see?--say--then ... that's it! you know?' And simply by this telepathy you did know."

His terse summing up of scenes and facts was never better illustrated than when he compressed
the instructions of a whole sentimental act into this simple sentence to E. H. Sothern:

"Court--kiss--curtain."

In one detail he differed from all the other great producers of his time. Most managers liked
to nurse a play after its production and build it up with new scenes or varied changes. With
Frohman it was different. "I am interested in a production until it has been made, and then
I don't care for it any more," he said. This is generally true, although some of his productions
he could never see often enough.

Frohman's perception about a play was little short of uncanny. An incident that happened during
the rehearsal of the Maude Adams all-star revival of "Romeo and Juliet" will illustrate. James
K. Hackett was cast for Mercutio. He had worked for a month on the Queen Mab speech. He had
elaborated and polished it, and thought he had it letter and tone perfect.

Frohman sat down near the front and listened with rapt attention while this fine actor declaimed
the speech. When he finished Charles said, in his jerky, epigrammatic way:

"Hackett, that's fine, but just in there somewhere--you know what I mean."

As a matter of fact, Hackett, with all his elaborate preparation, had slipped up on one line,
and it was a very essential one. Frohman had never read "Romeo and Juliet" until he cast this
production, yet he caught the omission with his extraordinary intuition.

Charles was the most indefatigable of workers. At one time, on arriving in Boston at midnight,
he had to stage a new act of "Peter Pan." He worked over it with carpenters, actors, and electricians
until three in the morning. Then he made an appointment with the acting manager to take a walk
on the Common "in the morning."

The manager took "in the morning" to mean nine o'clock. When he reached the hotel Frohman was
just returning from his walk, and handed the man a bunch of cables to send, telegrams to acknowledge,
and memoranda of information desired. At ten o'clock Frohman was conducting the rehearsal of
a new comedy by Haddon Chambers, which he finished at four. At five he was on a train speeding
back to New York, where he probably read manuscripts of plays until two in the morning. This
was one of the typical "C. F." days.

* * *

Occasionally a single detail would fascinate him in a play. "The Waltz Dream" that he did at
the Hicks Theater in London in 1908 was typical. Miss Gertie Millar, who sang the leading part,
had an important song. Frohman did not like the way she sang it, so he worked on it for two
weeks until it reached the perfection of expression that he desired. But that song made the
play and became the most-talked-of feature in it. This led him to say:

"I am willing to give as much time to a single song as to the rehearsal of a whole play."

Frohman had a phrase that he often used with his actors and directors. It was:

"Never get a 'falling curtain.'"

By this he meant a curtain that did not leave interest or emotion subdued or declining. He
wanted the full sweep of rage, terror, pity, suspense, or anger alive with the end of the act.

He always said, "A man who sees a play must feel that he is in the presence of an act." It
was his way of putting forth the idea that any acted effort, no matter how humble, must have
the ring of sincerity and conviction.

Charles had an almost weird instinct for what was right on the stage. Once at rehearsals he
pointed to a heavy candelabrum that stood on a table.

"I want that thing on the mantelpiece," he said.

"You mean the candelabrum?" asked one of his assistants.

"I don't know what it is, but I know that it belongs on the mantelpiece." And it did.

* * *

Many of Frohman's rehearsals were held out of town. He was particularly fond of "pointing up"
a production in a strange environment. Then the stage-director would ask the local manager
for an absolutely empty theater--"a clear auditorium."

"Peter Pan" was to be "finished off" at Washington. The call was issued, the company assembled--everybody
was present except Frohman. "Strange," was the thought in all minds, for he was usually so
prompt. Ten minutes, fifteen minutes passed until the stage-manager left the theater in search
of the manager. He was found at the front entrance of the theater, unsuccessfully arguing with
a German door-tender who, not knowing him and immensely amused at the idea that he was pretending
to be Charles Frohman, refused to admit him until reassured by the company stage-manager. Later,
when the man came to apologize, Frohman's only comment was:

"Oh! I forgot that an hour ago."

Few people knew the Frohman of rehearsals so well as William Seymour, for many years his general
stage-director. His illuminating picture of the Little Chief he served so long is as follows:

"At rehearsals Charles Frohman was completely wrapped up in the play and the players. His mind,
however, traveled faster than we did. He often stopped me to make a change in a line or in
the business which to me was not at all clear. You could not always grasp, at once, just what
he was aiming at. But once understood, the idea became illuminative, and extended into the
next, or even to succeeding acts of the play. He could detect a weak spot quicker than any
one I ever knew, and could remedy or straighten it out just as quickly.

"After the rehearsal of a new play he would think of it probably all the evening and night,
and the next morning he had the solutions of the several vague points at his fingers' ends.
He was also very positive and firm in what he wanted done, and how he thought it should be
done. But what he thought was right, he believed to be right, and he soon made you see it that way.

"I confess to having had many differences of opinion and arguments, sometimes even disagreements,
with him. In some instances he came round to my way of thinking, but he often said:

"'I believe you are right--I am sure you are right--but I intend doing it my way.'

"It was his great and wonderful self-confidence, and it was rarely overestimated.

"To his actors in a new play, after a week's 'roughing out' of the lines and business, the
announcement that 'C. F. will be here to-morrow' would cause a flutter, some consternation,
and to the newer members a great fear. To those who had been with him before he was like a
sheet-anchor in a storm. They knew him and trusted and loved him. He was all sympathy, all
comfort, all encouragement--if anything, too indulgent and overkind. But he won the confidence
and affection of his people at the outset, and I have rarely met a player who would not have
done his slightest bidding."

* * *

One of Frohman's characteristic hobbies was that he would never allow the leading man or the
leading woman of his theater, or anybody in the company, no matter what position he or she
held, to presume upon that position and bully the property man, or the assistant stage-manager,
or any person in a menial position in the theater. He was invariably on the side of the smaller
people.

Very often he would say, "The smallest member of this organization, be he of the staff or in
the company, has as much right to his 'say' in an argument as the biggest member has."

On one occasion a certain actor, who was rather fond of issuing his wishes and instructions
in a very loud voice, made his exit through a door up the center of the stage which was very
difficult to open and shut. It had not worked well, and this had happened, quite by accident,
on several occasions during the run of the play. The actor had spoken rather sharply to the
carpenter about it instead of going, as he should have done, to the stage-manager. He always
called the carpenter "Charley." The carpenter was a rather dignified person named Charles Heimley.

On the night in question this actor had had the usual trouble with the door. Heimley was not
in sight, for he was evidently down in his carpenter-shop under the stage. The actor leaned
over the balustrade and called out: "Charley! Charley!"

Frohman, who was just walking through the side door on his way to William Faversham's dressing-room,
turned to the star and said:

"Who is calling? Does he want me?"

"Oh no, he is calling the carpenter," replied Faversham.

Frohman tapped the noisy actor on the shoulder with his stick, and said, "You mean Mr. Heimley,
don't you?" He wanted the carpenter's position to be respected.

XVII

HUMOR AND ANECDOTE

The most distinctive quality in Charles Frohman's make-up was his sense of humor. He mixed
jest with life, and it enabled him to meet crisis and disaster with unflagging spirit and smiling
equanimity. Like Lincoln, he often resorted to anecdote and story to illustrate his point.
He summed up his whole theory of life one day when he said to Augustus Thomas:

"I am satisfied if the day gives me one good laugh."

He had a brilliancy of retort that suggested Wilde or Whistler. Once he was asked this question:

"What is the difference between metropolitan and out-of-town audiences?"

"Fifty cents," he replied.

* * *

Haddon Chambers was writing a note in Frohman's rooms at the Savoy.

"Do you spell high-ball with a hyphen?" he asked.

"No, with a siphon," responded Frohman.

* * *

Charles Dillingham, when in Frohman's employ, was ordered to hurry back to New York. From a
small town up New York state he wired:

     Wash-out on line. Will return as soon as possible.

Frohman promptly sent the following reply:

     Never mind your wash. Buy a new shirt and come along at once.

That he could also meet failure with a joke is shown by the following incident:

He was producing a play at Atlantic City that seemed doomed from the start. In writing to a
member of his family he said:

     I never saw the waves so high and the receipts so low.

Frohman and Pinero were dining in the Carleton grill-room one night when a noisy person rushed
up to them, slapped each on the shoulder, and said:

"Hello, 'C. F.'! Hello, 'Pin.'! I'm Hopkins."

Frohman looked up gravely and said:

"Ah, Mr. Hopkins, I can't say that I remember your name or your face, but your manner is familiar."

* * *

When Edna May married Oscar Lewisohn she gave a reception on her return from the honeymoon.
She sent Charles one of the conventional engraved cards that read:

     "At home Thursday from four to six."

Frohman immediately sent back the card, on which he had written, "So am I."

* * *

Once when Frohman and Dillingham were crossing to Europe on the Oceanic they had as fellow-passenger
a mutual friend, Henry Dazian, the theatrical costumer, on whom Charles delighted to play pranks.
On the first day out Dillingham came rushing back to Frohman with this exclamation:

"There are a couple of card-sharks on board and Dazian is playing with them. Don't you think
we had better warn him?"

"No," replied Frohman. "Warn the sharks."

* * *

Some years ago Frohman sent a young actor named John Brennan out on the road in the South in
"Too Much Johnson." Brennan was a Southerner, and he believed that he could do a big business
in his home country. Frohman then went to London, and, when playing hearts at the Savoy one
night with Dillingham, a page brought a cablegram. It was from Brennan, saying:

     Unless I get two hundred dollars by next Saturday night I can't
     close.

Whereupon Frohman wired him:

     Keep going.

Frohman delighted to play jokes on his close friends. In 1900, Dillingham opened the New Jersey
Academy of Music with Julia Marlowe, and it was a big event. This was before the day of the
tubes under the Hudson connecting New Jersey and New York. When Dillingham went down to the
ferry to cross over for the opening night he found a basket of flowers from Frohman marked,
"Bon voyage."

* * *

Nor could Frohman be lacking in the graceful reply. During a return engagement of "The Man
from Mexico," in the Garrick Theater, William Collier became very ill with erysipelas and had
to go to a hospital. The day the engagement was resumed happened to be Frohman's birthday,
and Collier sent him the following cablegram:

     Many happy returns from all your box offices.

He received the following answer from Frohman:

     My happiest return is your return to the Garrick.

Behind all of Frohman's jest and humor was a serious outlook on life. It was mixed with big
philosophy, too, as this incident will show:

He was visiting Sir George Alexander at his country house in Kent. Alexander, who is a great
dog fancier, asked Frohman to accompany him while he chained up his animals. Frohman watched
the performance with great interest. Then he turned to the actor-manager and said:

"I have got a lot of dogs out at my country place in America, but I never tie them up."

"Why?" asked Alexander.

"Let other people tie up the dogs. You let them out and they will always like you."

* * *

Frohman was known to his friends as a master of epigram. Some of his distinctive sayings are these:

"The best seat at a theater is the paid one."

"An ounce of imagination is worth a pound of practicality."

"The man who makes up his mind to corner things generally gets cornered."

"You cannot monopolize theaters while there are bricks and mortar."

"When I hear of another theater being built I try to build another author."

"No successful theatrical producer ever died rich. He must make money for everybody but himself."

"Great stage successes are the plays that take hold of the masses, not the classes."

* * *

Frohman could always reach the heart of a situation with a pithy phrase or reply. On one of
the rare occasions when he attended a public dinner he sat at the Metropolitan Club in New
York with a group of men representing a variety of interests. He condemned a certain outrageously
immodest Oriental dancer, who, at the moment, was shocking New York.

"She must have a nasty mind to dance like that," said Frohman.

"Don't be too hard on her," responded a playwright who sat near by. "Consider how young she is."

"I deny that she is as young as you imply," retorted Frohman. "But I am bound to admit that
she is certainly a stripling."

* * *

Frohman's mind worked with amazing swiftness. Here is an example:

At the formation of a London society called the West End Managers Association, Sir Charles
Wyndham gave a luncheon at the Hyde Park Hotel to discuss and arrange preliminaries. Most of
the London managers were present, including Frohman. There was a discussion as to what should
be the entrance fee for each member. Various sums were discussed from £100 downward. Twenty-five
pounds seemed to be the most generally accepted, when one manager said:

"Why should we not each give one night's receipts."

This was discussed for a little while, when Sir Charles said, "What do you say, Frohman?"

The American replied, "I would sooner give a night's receipts than £25."

There was a short silence, then everybody seemed to remember that he had at that moment a failure
at his theater. The humor of it was hailed with a shout of laughter.

* * *

Just as he mixed sentiment in business so did Frohman infuse wit into most of his relations.
He once instructed W. Lestocq, his London manager, to conduct certain negotiations for a new
play with a Scotchwoman whose first play had made an enormous success in America, and whose
head had been turned by it. The woman's terms were ten thousand dollars in advance and a fifteen-per-cent.
royalty. When Lestocq told Frohman these terms over the telephone, all he said was this:

"Did you tell her not to slam the door?"

* * *

Frohman would always have his joke in London, as this incident shows:

He had just arrived in town and went to a bank in Charing Cross with a letter of credit, which
he deposited. When he emerged he was smiling all over.

"I got one on that young man behind the counter," he said.

"How's that?" asked Lestocq, who was waiting for him.

"Well," he replied, "the young man bade me good morning and asked me if I have brought over
anything good this time. I replied, 'Yes, a letter of credit on your bank, and I am waiting
to see if it is any good.'"

A manager, who for present purposes must be named Smith, called on Frohman to secure the services
of a star at that time under contract to the latter. His plan was to drop in on Frohman at
a busy hour, quickly state the case, and, getting an affirmative answer, leave without talking
terms at all. Later he knew it would be enough to recall the affirmative answer that had been
given without qualification. The transaction took but a moment, just as the manager wished.

"Well, then, I may have him?" said Smith.

"Er-m-ah-er-yes--I will let you have him," replied Frohman, at the same time running over a
paper before him. The visitor was already at the door.

"By the way, Smith," called out Frohman, "how much do you want me to pay you for taking him
off my hands?"

* * *

Frohman was as playful as a child. Once he was riding in a petite voiture in Paris. It was
a desperately hot night. The old cocher took his hat off, hung it on the lamp, and wiped his
forehead. Frohman took the hat and hid it under his seat. When the driver looked for his hat
it was gone. He stopped the horse and ran back two or three blocks before he could be stopped.
Then he went on without it, muttering and cursing, and turning around every few moments. Watching
his opportunity, Frohman slipped the hat back on the lamp, and there was the expected climax
that he thoroughly enjoyed.

On one of his trips to Paris he was accompanied by Dillingham. Knowing Frohman's fondness for
rich food, his friend decided to take him to dine at Durand's famous restaurant opposite the
Madeleine. He even went to the café in the afternoon and told the proprietor that he was going
to bring the great American manager. Great anticipation prevailed in the establishment.

That night when they got to the restaurant Frohman gave Dillingham the shock of his life by saying:

"I want to be a real American to-night. All I want is an oyster stew."

Dillingham instructed the chef how to make the stew. After long delay there was a commotion.
In strode the chef, followed by two assistants, bearing aloft a gigantic silver tureen which
was placed on the table and opened with great ceremony. Inside was a huge quantity of consommé
with two lonely oysters floating on top.

Frohman regarded it as a great joke, and ever afterward when he met anybody in Paris that he
did not like, he would say to them:

"If you want the finest oyster stew in the world, go to Durand's."

* * *

Frohman, who was always playing jokes on his friends, was sometimes the victim himself. He
was crossing the ocean with Haddon Chambers when the latter was accosted by two enterprising
young men who were arranging the ship's concert. Chambers was asked to take part, but declined.
Then he had an inspiration.

"We have on board the greatest American singer of coon songs known to the stage."

"Who is that?" asked the men.

"It's Charles Frohman."

The men gasped.

"Of course we knew him as a great manager, but we never knew he could sing."

"Oh yes," said Chambers. "He is a great singer."

He pointed out Frohman and hid behind a lifeboat to await the result. Soon he heard a sputter
and a shriek of rage, and the two men came racing down the boat as if pursued by some terror.
Up came Frohman, his face livid with rage.

"What do you think?" he said to Chambers, who stood innocently by. "Those men had the nerve
to ask me to sing a coon song. I have never been so insulted in all my life."

He was so enraged that he wrote a letter to the steamship line about it and withdrew his patronage
from the company for several years in consequence.

* * *

Here is another instance when the joke was on Frohman. No one viewed the manager's immense
success with keener pride or pleasure than his father, Henry Frohman. As theater after theater
came under the son's direction the parent could gratify his great passion for giving people
free passes to its fullest extent. He would appear at the offices at the Empire Theater with
his pockets bulging with home-made cigars. The men in the office always accepted the cigars,
but never smoked them. But they gave him all the passes he wanted.

One day the father stopped in to see Charles. It was a raw spring day. Charles remarked that
the overcoat Henry wore was too thin.

"Go to my tailor and get an overcoat," he said.

"Not much," said the father. "Your tailor is too expensive. He robs you. He wouldn't make one
under seventy-five dollars, and I never pay more than twenty dollars."

Charles's eye twinkled. He said, quickly:

"You are mistaken. My tailor will make you a coat for twenty dollars. Go down and get one."

Father went down to the fashionable Fifth Avenue tailor. Meanwhile Frohman called him up and
gave instructions to make a coat for his father at a very low price and have the difference
charged to him.

In an hour Henry Frohman came back all excitement. "I am a real business man," he said. "I
persuaded that tailor of yours to make me an overcoat for twenty dollars."

Charles immediately gave him the twenty dollars and sent the tailor a check for the difference
between that and the real price, which was ninety-five dollars. He dismissed the matter from
his mind.

A few days later Charles had another visit from his father. This time he was in high glee.
He could hardly wait to tell the great news.

"You've often said I wasn't a good business man," he told his son. "Well, I can prove to you
that I am. The other night one of my friends admired my new overcoat so much that I sold it
to him for thirty-five dollars."

Charles said nothing, but had to pay for another one-hundred-and-fifteen-dollar overcoat because
he did not want to shatter his father's illusion.

* * *

Here is still another. When Frohman got back to New York from a trip few things interested
him so much as a good dinner. It always wiped out the memory of hard times or unpleasant experiences.
Once he returned from a costly visit to the West. On Broadway he met an old-time comedian who
had been in one of his companies. His greeting was cordial.

"And now, 'C. F.,'" said the comedian, "you've got to come to dinner with me. We have a new
club, for actors only, and we have the best roast beef in town. We make a specialty of a substantial,
homelike dinner. Come right along."

The club rooms were over a saloon on the west side of Broadway, between Thirty-first and Thirty-second
streets. The two went up to the room and sat down. The actor ordered dinner for two. The waiter
went away and Frohman's spirits began to rise.

"It's the best roast beef in New York, I tell you," said the host, by way of an appetizer.

Then the waiter reappeared, but not with the food. He was visibly embarrassed.

"Sorry, sir," he said to the comedian, "but the steward tells me that you can't have dinner
to-night. He says you were posted to-day, and that you can't be served again until everything
is settled."

Charles used to tell this story and say that he never had such an appetite for roast beef as
he did when he rose from that club table to go out again into Broadway.

* * *

Frohman was always interested in mechanical things. When the phonograph was first put on the
market he had one in his office at 1127 Broadway. Once in London he found a mechanical tiger
that growled, walked, and even clawed. He enjoyed watching it crouch and spring.

He took it with him on the steamer back to New York, and played with it on the deck. One day
Richard Croker, who was a fellow-passenger, came along and became interested in the toy, whereupon
Frohman showed him how it worked.

Frohman told of this episode with great satisfaction. He would always end his description by
saying:

"Fancy showing the boss of Tammany Hall how to work a tiger!"

* * *

The extraordinary affinity that existed between Frohman and a small group of intimates was
shown by an incident that occurred on shipboard. He and Dillingham were on their way to Europe.
They were playing checkers in the smoking-room when an impertinent, pushing American came up
and half hung himself over the table. Frohman said nothing, but made a very ridiculous move.
Dillingham followed suit.

"What chumps you are!" said the interloper, and went away.

Frohman wanted to get rid of the man without saying anything. This was his way of doing it,
and it succeeded.

* * *

Frohman was always having queer adventures out of which he spun the most amazing yarns. This
is an experience that he liked to recount:

When Augustus Thomas had an apartment in Paris he received a visit from Frohman. The flat was
five flights up, but there was an elevator that worked by pushing a button.

There was a ring at the bell of the Thomas apartment. When the playwright opened the door he
found Frohman gasping for breath, and he sank exhausted on a settee.

"I walked up," he managed to say. When he was able to talk Thomas said to him:

"Why in Heaven's name didn't you use the elevator?"

Frohman replied:

"I couldn't make the woman down-stairs understand what I wanted. She made motions and showed
me a little door, but I thought she had designs on my life, so I preferred to walk."

* * *

That Charles Frohman had the happy faculty of saying the right thing and saying it gracefully
is well illustrated by the following:

When the beautiful Scala Theater in London was opened it made such a sensation that Frohman
asked Lestocq if he could not inspect it. The proprietor, Dr. Distin Maddick, being an old
friend of Lestocq, the latter called informally with Frohman. While they were admiring the
white stone and brass interior, Maddick was suddenly called away. He returned in a few minutes
to say that a manager friend from Edinburgh, hearing that Frohman was in the theater, had come
in and asked to be introduced. Of course Frohman acquiesced. After a little talk the gentleman
said:

"We have no beautiful theater like this in Edinburgh."

Quickly Frohman replied, with his fascinating smile, "No, but you have Edinburgh."

* * *

Frohman hated exercise. In this he had a great community of interest with Mark Twain.

On Sunday mornings, when he was out at his farm at White Plains, he would read all the dramatic
news in the papers, and then he searched them carefully for items about people who had died
from over-exertion. When he found one he was greatly pleased, and always sent it to Mark Twain.

In order to get him to exercise Dillingham once took him for a stroll and pretended to be lost.
The second time he tried this, however, Frohman discovered the subterfuge and refused to go
walking.

* * *

Frohman could pack a world of meaning in a word or a sentence. As Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree
once expressed it, "he was witty with a dry form of humor that takes your breath away with
its suddenness." He gave an example of this with Tree one day in London. They were discussing
French plays for America. The question of American taste came up. Frohman described certain
primitive effects which delighted our audiences.

"Ah," said Tree, "America can stand that sort of thing. It is a new country."

"Was," came the laconic reply.

* * *

Frohman's retiring disposition and dislike for putting himself forward was one of his chief
traits. An illustration occurred when he controlled the Garden Theater. It was during the presentation
of Stephen Phillips's play "Ulysses." There was a new man on the door one night when Frohman
dropped into the theater for a few minutes' look at the play. The doorkeeper did not know the
producer, his own employer, and would not allow him to enter without a ticket. Instead of storming
about the lobby, Frohman simply walked quickly out of the door, around to the stage entrance
and through the theater. At the end of the act he walked out of the main entrance. The doorkeeper,
recognizing him as the man he had "turned down," was about to ask him how he got in when the
manager of the house interposed.

* * *

He liked surprise and contrast. On one occasion his old chum, Anson Pond, wanted to talk over
business matters with him.

"Let's go to a quiet place," said Frohman.

They went to a Childs restaurant. Before their luncheon was served an intoxicated man came
in, ordered a plate of beans, and then exploded a package of fire-crackers on it.

When he went to pay his check Frohman's comment was:

"I didn't know they had changed the date of the Fourth of July."

* * *

No other theatrical manager in New York had a better news sense than Frohman. He knew just
what a paper wanted, and all the matter sent out from his offices was short, newsy, and direct.
He knew how to shape a big "story," and could offhand dictate an interview that was all "meat."
While he had little time in New York to greet newspaper men personally, he was especially cordial
to all that came to see him on the road. He never went out of town without visiting some of
the older critics he had known throughout his career, men like George P. Goodale of The Detroit
Free Press, and Montgomery Phister of The Commercial Tribune in Cincinnati. When in Baltimore
he invariably gave an hour for a long interview to Walter E. McCann, the critic of The News
of that city.

Frohman knew a newspaper's wants and limitations as far as theatrical matter was concerned.
He knew just how far his press representative could be expected to go, and what his obstacles were.

On one occasion in Cleveland, when he was producing a play by Clyde Fitch for the late Clara
Bloodgood, the chief press representative from the New York office was taken along to look
after the work. The press agent sent stories to all of the papers for Saturday morning's publication,
and to his dismay not a line was used. Feeling that Frohman would be hurt about it (for Charles
was hurt and not angered by the failure of any of his men), he wrote a note to his chief, stating
that he was sorry nothing had been used in print and did not understand it.

At lunch that day Frohman remarked to the agent:

"Why did you send me that note about the papers?"

"Because," replied the young man, "I feared that you would think I had not attended to my work."

"Well," said Frohman, "you sent matter to all the papers, didn't you?"

"Yes," said the agent, "all of them, of course."

"Then," said the manager, "what else could you do? You are not running the papers."

It was not only an evidence of Frohman's fairness, but an instance of his knowledge of newspapers.

* * *

Frohman had a remarkable memory. One night during Collier's London engagement he asked the
actor to meet him at the Savoy the next morning at nine o'clock. Collier, who had been playing
bridge until dawn, showed up at the appointed time, whereupon Frohman said:

"How did you do it?"

"I sat up for it," said Collier.

Five years later Frohman asked Collier one night to meet him at nine o'clock the next morning.
Then he added, quickly:

"You can sit up for it."

* * *

Frohman got much amusement out of a butler named Max who was employed at his house at White
Plains. One of the most original episodes in which this man figured happened on the opening
night of "Catherine" at the Garrick Theater.

The play was a little thin, and the whole action depended on a love scene in the third act,
in which the hero, a young swell played by J. M. Holland, on telling his mother that he loved
a humble girl, gets the unexpected admonition to go and be happy with her. Dillingham had two
seats well down in the orchestra. Frohman was to sit in the back of a box. Just before the
curtain went up Frohman said to Dillingham, who then had a house on Twenty-fourth Street, "Let
us have some of those nice little lamb chops and peas down at your house after the play."

"All right," said Dillingham, and he telephoned the instructions to Max, who had been drafted
for town service.

The curtain went up, the first two acts went off all right, and the house was dark for the
third act. The seat alongside Dillingham was vacated, so Frohman came down and occupied it.
The curtain went up and the action of the play progressed. The great scene which was to carry
it was about to begin when Dillingham heard a loud thump, thump, thump down the aisle. Frohman
turned to Dillingham and said:

"What in the name of Heaven is that? The play is ruined!"

The thump, thump, thump continued, coming nearer. Just in the middle of the act a German voice
spoke up and said:

"Oxkuse me, Meester Dillingham, dere ain't a lam' chop in der house."

It was Max, the butler, who, worried over what seemed the imminent failure of the midnight
repast, had come to report to headquarters for further instructions. Fortunately the interruption
passed unnoticed and the play made quite a hit.

* * *

On one occasion Nat C. Goodwin invited him to the Goodwin residence in West End Avenue, New
York. The comedian wanted to place himself under the management of his guest. Goodwin stated
the case, and Frohman then asked how remunerative his last season had been. The host produced
his books. After a careful examination Frohman remarked, with a smile:

"My dear boy, you don't require a manager. What you need is a lawyer."

XVIII

THE MAN FROHMAN

Great as producer, star-maker, and conqueror of two stage-worlds, Charles Frohman was greater
as a human being. Like Roosevelt, whom he greatly admired, he was more than a man--he was an
institution. His quiet courage, his unaffected simplicity, his rare understanding, his ripe
philosophy, his uncanny penetration--above all, his abundant humor--made him a figure of fascinating
and incessant interest.

No trait of Charles Frohman was more highly developed than his shyness. He was known as "The
Great Unphotographed." The only time during the last twenty-five years of his life that he
sat for a photograph was when he had to get a picture for his passport, and this picture went
to a watery grave with him. Behind his prejudice against being photographed was a perfectly
definite reason, which he once explained as follows:

"I once knew a theatrical manager whose prospects were very bright. He became a victim of the
camera. Fine pictures of him were made and stuck up on the walls everywhere. He used to spend
more time looking at these pictures of himself than he did attending to his business. He made
a miserable failure. I was quite a young man when I heard of this, but it made a great impression
on me. I resolved then never to have my photograph taken if I could help it."

Once when Frohman and A. L. Erlanger were in London he received the usual request to be photographed
by a newspaper camera man. The two magnates looked something alike in that they had a more
or less Napoleonic cast of face. Frohman, who always saw a joke in everything, hatched a scheme
by which Erlanger was to be photographed for him. The plan worked admirably, and pictures of
Erlanger suddenly began to appear all over London labeled "Charles Frohman."

He could be gracious, however, in his refusal to be photographed. One bright afternoon he was
watching the races at Henley when he was approached by R. W. MacFarlane, of New York, who had
been on the Frohman staff. MacFarlane asked if he could take a photograph of Frohman and give
it to his niece, who was traveling with him.

"No," said the manager, "but you can take a picture of your niece and I will pose her for it."

* * *

Frohman's shyness led to what is in many respects the most remarkable of the countless anecdotes
about him. It grew out of his illness. In 1913 he had a severe attack of neuritis in London.
Although his friends urged him to go and see a doctor, he steadfastly refused. He dreaded physicians
just as he dreaded photographers.

One day Barrie came to see him at his rooms at the Savoy. Frohman was in such intense pain
that the Scotch author said:

"Frohman, it is absurd for you not to see a doctor. You simply must have medical attention.
As a matter of fact, I have already made an engagement for you to see Robson-Roose, the great
nerve specialist, at four o'clock to-morrow afternoon."

Frohman, who accepted whatever Barrie said, acquiesced. Next day, when half-past three o'clock
came, the manager was almost in a state of panic. He said to Dillingham, who was with him:

"Dillingham, you know how I hate to go to see doctors. You also know what is the matter with
me. Why don't you go as my understudy and tell the doctor what is the matter with you? He will
give you a nice little prescription or advise you to go to the Riviera or Carlsbad."

"All right," said Dillingham, who adored his friend. "I'll do what you say."

Promptly at four o'clock Dillingham showed up at the great specialist's office and said he
was Frohman. He underwent a drastic cross-examination. After which he was asked to remove his
clothes, was subjected to the most strenuous massage treatment, and, to cap it all, was given
an electric bath that reduced him almost to a wreck. He had entered the doctor's office in
the best of health, He emerged from it worn and weary.

When he staggered into Frohman's rooms two hours later and told his tale of woe, Frohman laughed
so heartily over the episode that he was a well man the next day.

* * *

Frohman had a great fund of pithy sayings, remarkable for their brevity. With these he indicated
his wishes to his associates. His charm of manner, his quick insight into a situation, and
his influence over the minds of others were great factors in the accomplishment of his end,
often attaining the obviously impossible.

For example, when he would tell his business manager to negotiate a business matter with a
man, and it would come to a point where there would be a deadlock, he would say:

"I will see him. Ask him to come down to my hotel."

The next morning he would walk into the office with a smile on his face, and the first thing
he would say perhaps would be:

"I fixed it up all right yesterday; it is going your way."

"You are a wonder!" his associates would exclaim.

"Oh no! I just talked to him," was the reply.

* * *

Frohman disliked formality. He wanted to go straight to the heart of a thing and have it over
with. Somebody once asked him why he did not join the Masonic order. He said:

"I would like to very much if I could just write a check and not bother with all the ceremony."

* * *

Although he never spoke of his great power in the profession, occasionally there was a glimpse
of how he felt about it as this incident shows:

Once, when Frohman and Paul Potter were coming back from Atlantic City, Potter picked up a
theatrical paper and said:

"Shall I read you the theatrical news?"

"No," said Frohman. "I make theatrical news."

* * *

In that supreme test of a man's character--his attitude toward money--he shone. Though his
enterprises involved millions, Frohman had an extraordinary disregard of money. He felt its
power, but he never idolized it. To him it was a means to an end. He summed up his whole attitude
one day when he said:

"My work is to produce plays that succeed, so that I can produce plays that will not succeed.
That is why I must have money.

"What I would really like to do is to produce a wonderful something to which I would only go
myself. My pleasure would be in seeing a remarkable performance that nobody else could see.
But I can't do that. The next best thing is to produce something for the few critical people.
That is what I'm trying for. I have to work through the commercial--it is the white heat through
which the artistic in me has to come." It was his answer to the oft-made charge of "commercialism."

No one, perhaps, has summed up this money attitude of Frohman's better than George Bernard
Shaw, who said of him:

"There is a prevalent impression that Charles Frohman is a hard-headed American man of business
who would not look at anything that is not likely to pay. On the contrary, he is the most wildly
romantic and adventurous man of my acquaintance. As Charles XII. became an excellent soldier
because of his passion for putting himself in the way of being killed, so Charles Frohman became
a famous manager through his passion for putting himself in the way of being ruined."

In many respects Frohman's feeling about money was almost childlike. He left all financial
details to his subordinates. All he wanted to do was to produce plays and be let alone. Yet
he had an infinite respect for the man to whom he had to pay a large sum. He felt that the
actor or author who could command it was invested with peculiar significance. Upon himself
he spent little. He once said:

"All I want is a good meal, a good cigar, good clothes, a good bed to sleep in, and freedom
to produce whatever plays I like."

He was a magnificent loser. Failure never disturbed him. When he saw that a piece was doomed
he indulged in no obituary talk. "Let's go to the next," he said, and on he went.

He lost in the same princely way that he spent. The case of "Thermidor" will illustrate. He
spent not less than thirty thousand dollars on this production. Yet the moment the curtain
went down he realized it was a failure. He stood at one side of the wings and Miss Marbury,
who had induced him to put the play on, was at the other. With the fall of the curtain Frohman
moved smilingly among his actors with no trace of disappointment on his face. But when he met
Miss Marbury on the other side of the stage he said:

"Well, I suppose we have got a magnificent frost. We'll just write this off and forget it."

* * *

Frohman played with the theater as if it were a huge game. Like life itself, it was a great
adventure. In the parlance of Wall Street, he was a "bull," for he was always raising salaries
and royalties. Somebody once said of him:

"What a shame that Frohman works so hard! He never had a day's fun in his life."

"You are very much mistaken," said one of his friends. "His whole life is full of it. He gets
his chief fun out of his work." Indeed, work and humor were in reality the great things with him.

One of the best epigrams ever made about Frohman's extravagance was this:

"Give Charles Frohman a check-book and he will lose money on any production."

To say that his word was his bond is to repeat one of the trite tributes to him. But it was
nevertheless very true. Often in discussing a business arrangement with his representatives
he would say:

"Did I say that?" On being told that he did, he would invariably reply, "Then it must stand
at that."

On one of these occasions he said:

"I have only one thing of value to me, and that is my word. I will keep that until I am broke
and then I'll jump overboard."

* * *

In starting a new venture his method was first to ascertain not how much it would enrich him,
but how much it would cost. Thus fortified, he entered into it with enthusiasm, and if he lost
he never murmured. Having settled a thing, for good or ill, he would never refer to the negotiations
or anything that might have led up to the culmination of that business, either for or against.
If his attention was afterward called to it, he would quietly say, "That's yesterday," and
in this way indicate that he did not wish the matter referred to again.

* * *

Frohman's great desire was to make money for other people. One of his young authors had had
a bad failure in London and was very much depressed. Frohman finally worked out a plan to revive
his spirits and recoup his finances. He took Alfred Sutro in his confidence and invited the
young man to dine. He was like a child, eager to do something good and pleasing. All through
the dinner he chaffed the young man, who visibly grew more despondent. Finally he said:

"I have decided to revive a very good play, and I have booked an American tour for it." Then
he told the young man that this play was his first success.

* * *

Charles Frohman's ignorance of money matters was proverbial. One day just as he was about to
take the train for Washington a friend stopped him and said:

"I've got a great investment for you."

"No," said Frohman, "I never invest in anything except theaters."

"But this is the real thing. The only possible fact that can spoil it is war, and we are widely
remote from war."

In order to get rid of the man Frohman consented to a modest investment. When he got to Washington
the first thing that greeted him was the announcement that we were on the verge of war with Mexico.

* * *

William Harris once gently remonstrated with Frohman for such lavish expenditure of money.

"It's simply awful, Charley, the way you spend money," he said.

Frohman smiled and said:

"It would be awful if I lost a finger or a foot, but spending money on the things that you
want to do and enjoy doing is never money wasted."

* * *

At one time he owed a great deal of money to actors and printers, but he always scorned all
suggestions that he go through bankruptcy and wipe these claims out. He said he would pay in
full some day, and he did, with interest. An actor to whom he owed some four hundred dollars
came to him and offered to settle the claim for one hundred dollars. Frohman said he did not
believe in taking advantage of a man like that. He advanced the actor one hundred dollars,
and eventually paid the other three hundred dollars.

* * *

Like every great man, Frohman's tastes were simple. He always wore clothes of one pattern,
and the style seldom varied. He wore no jewelry except a Napoleonic ring on his little finger.

* * *

Frohman never married. A friend once asked him why he had chosen to be a bachelor.

"My dear fellow," he answered, "had I possessed a wife and family I could never have taken
the risks which, as a theatrical manager, I am constantly called upon to do."

He lived, in truth, for and by the theater; it was his world. His heart was in his profession,
and no enterprise was too daring, no venture too perilous, to prevent him from boldly facing
it if he believed the step was expected of him.

* * *

To his intimates Frohman was always known as "C. F." These were the magic initials that opened
or shut the doors to theatrical fame and fortune.

* * *

Frohman loved sweet things to eat. Pies were his particular fondness, and he never traveled
without a box of candy. As he read plays he munched chocolates. He ate with a sort of Johnsonian
avidity. When he went to Europe some of his friends, who knew his tastes well, sent him crates
of pies instead of flowers or books.

He shared this fondness for sweets with Clyde Fitch. They did not dare to eat as much pastry
as they liked before others, so they often retired to Frohman's rooms at Sherry's or to Fitch's
house on Fortieth Street, in New York, and had a dessert orgy.

Frohman almost invariably ate as he worked in his office. When people saw sandwiches piled
upon his table, he would say:

"A rehearsal accompanied by a sandwich is progress, but a rehearsal interrupted by a meal is
delay."

* * *

Frohman's letters to his intimates were characteristic. He always wrote them with a blue pencil,
and on whatever scrap of paper happened to be at hand. Often it was a sheet of yellow scratch-paper,
sometimes the back of an envelope. He wrote as he talked, in quick, epigrammatic sentences.
Like Barrie, he wrote one of the most indecipherable of hands. Frequently, instead of a note,
he drew a picture to express a sentiment or convey an invitation. One reason for this was that
the man saw all life in terms of the theater. It was a series of scenes.

* * *

With regard to home life, Frohman had none. He always dwelt in apartments in New York. The
only two places where he really relaxed were at Marlow, in England, and at his country place
near White Plains in Westchester County, New York. He shared the ownership of this establishment
with Dillingham. It entered largely into his plans. Here his few intimates, like Paul Potter,
Haddon Chambers, William Gillette, and Augustus Thomas, came and talked over plays and productions.
Here, too, he kept vigil on the snowy night when London was to pass judgment on the first production
of "Peter Pan" on any stage.

The way he came to acquire an interest in the White Plains house is typical of the man and
his methods. Dillingham had bought the place. One day Frohman and Gillette lunched with him
there. Frohman was immensely taken with the establishment. He liked the lawn, the garden, the
trees, and the aloofness. The three men sat at a round table. Frohman beamed and said:

"This is the place for me. I want to sit at the head of this table." It was his way of saying
that he wanted to acquire an ownership in it, and from that time on he was a co-proprietor.

With characteristic generosity he insisted upon paying two-thirds of the expenses. Then, in
his usual lavish fashion, he had it remodeled. He wanted a porch built. Instead of engaging
the village carpenter, who could have done it very well, he employed the most famous architects
in the country and spent thirty thousand dollars. It was the Frohman way.

Out of the Frohman ownership of the White Plains house came one of the many Frohman jests.
Its conduct was so expensive that Frohman one day said to Dillingham, "Let's rent a theater
and make it pay for the maintenance of the house."

Frohman then leased the Garrick, but instead of making money on it he lost heavily.

The factotum at White Plains was the German Max, whom Dillingham had brought over from the
Savoy in London, where he was a waiter. Max became the center of many amusing incidents. One
has already been related.

One night Max secured some fine watermelons. As he came through the door with one of them he
slipped and dropped it. He repeated this performance with the second melon. Frohman regarded
it as a great joke, and roared with laughter. Just then Gillette was announced.

"Now," said Frohman, quietly, to Dillingham, "we will have Max bring in a watermelon, but I
want him to drop it." In order to insure the success of the trick they stretched a string at
the door so that Max would be sure to fall. Then they ordered the melon, and Max appeared,
bearing it aloft. He fell, however, before he got to the string, and the joke was saved.

All this jest and joke was part of the game of life as Frohman played it. Whatever the cost,
there is no doubt that the charming white-and-green cottage up in the Westchester valley gave
him hours of relaxation and ease that were among the pleasantest of his life.

This house at White Plains was indirectly the means through which Dillingham branched out as
an independent manager. At this time he was in Frohman's employ. One day he said to himself:

"This establishment is costing so much that I will have to send out some companies of my own."

He thereupon got "The Red Mill," acquired Montgomery and Stone, and thus began a new and brilliant
managerial career. No one rejoiced over Dillingham's success more than Frohman. When Dillingham
opened his Globe Theater in New York Frohman addressed a cable to "Charles Dillingham, Globe
Theater, U. S. A."

It is a curious fact about Charles Frohman that though he had millions of dollars at stake,
he was never a defendant in litigation. Yet through him foreign authors were enabled to protect
their plays from the customary piracy by the memorization of parts. It used to be accepted
that if a man went to a play and memorized its speeches he could produce it without paying
royalty. N. S. Wood did this with a play called "The World," that Frohman produced. He took
the matter to court as a test case and won.

* * *

Charles was not good at remembering people's names or their addresses. This is why he was much
dependent upon his stenographers. His secretary in England, Miss Frances Slater, was so extraordinary
in anticipating his words that he always called her "The Wonder." He used to say:

"Miss Slater, I want to write to the man around the corner," which turned out to be Arthur
Bouclier, the manager of the Garrick Theater, which was not really around the corner; but when
the subject of the letter came to be dictated, Miss Slater knew whom he meant. He would never
express any surprise on these occasions when the letter handed him to sign contained the right
name and address. He seemed to take it as a matter of course.

* * *

One day Frohman entered his London office and said to Lestocq:

"You would never guess where I have just come from. I have been to your Westminster Abbey."

Lestocq expressed surprise, whereupon Frohman continued:

"Yes, I just walked in and spoke to a man in a gown and said, 'Where is Mr. Irving buried?'
He showed me, and I stood there for a few minutes, said a couple of things, and came on here."

* * *

Frohman's office at the Empire Theater was characteristic of the man himself. It was a room
of considerable proportions, with the atmosphere of a study. It was lined with rather low book-shelves,
on which stood the bound copies of the plays he had produced. Interspersed was a complete set
of Lincoln's speeches and letters.

On one side was a large stone fireplace; in a corner stood a grand piano; the center was dominated
by a simple, flat-topped desk, across which much of the traffic of the American theater passed.

Near at hand was a low and luxurious couch. Here Frohman sat cross-legged and listened to plays.
This performance was a sort of sacred rite, and was always observed behind locked doors. No
Frohman employee would think of intruding upon his chief at such a time.

Here, as in London, Frohman was surrounded by pictures of his stars. Dominating them was J.
W. Alexander's fine painting of Miss Adams in "L'Aiglon." On a shelf stood a bust of John Drew.
There were portraits of playwrights, too. A photograph of Clyde Fitch had this inscription:

"To C. F. from c. f."

There was only one real art object in the office, a magnificent marble bust of Napoleon, whom
Frohman greatly admired. He was always pleased when he was told that he looked like the Man
of Destiny.

His sense of personal modesty was a very genuine thing. Shortly before he sailed on the fatal
trip he had a request from a magazine writer who wanted to write the story of his life. He
sent back a vigorous refusal to co-operate, saying, among other things:

"It is most obnoxious to me in every way. It is forcing oneself on the public so far as I am
concerned, and I don't want that, and, besides, they are not interested. It is only for the
great men of our country. It is not for me. It looks like cheek and presumption on my part,
because it is, and I ask you not to go on with it."

* * *

He believed in system. One day he said:

"We must have on file in our office the complete record of every first-class theater in the
United States, together with the name of every dramatic editor and bill-poster." Out of this
grew the famous "Theatrical Guide" compiled by Julius Cahn.

* * *

Charles always provided special sleepers for his company when they had to leave early in the
morning. He felt that it was an imposition to make the people go to bed late after a play and
rise at five or six to get a train. It not only expressed his kindness, but also his good business
sense in keeping his people satisfied and efficient.

* * *

One of Frohman's eccentricities was that he never carried a watch. On being asked why he never
carried a timepiece, he replied, tersely, "Everybody else carries a watch," meaning that if
he wanted to find out the time of day he could do it more quickly by inquiring of his personal
or business associates than by looking for a watch that he may have forgotten to wind up.

"Frohman," said a friend, "made it a rule in life not to do anything that he could hire somebody
else to do, thus leaving himself all the time possible for those things that he alone could
do. He probably figured it out that if he carried a watch he would be obliged to spend a certain
amount of time each day winding it.

"And on the same principle he refused to worry as to whether he left his umbrella behind or
not, by simply not carrying one. If he couldn't get a cab--a rare occurrence, doubtless, considering
the beaten track of his travel--he preferred to walk in the rain."

Some time before his death Frohman said to a distinguished dramatist who is one of his closest
friends:

"Whenever I make a rule I never violate it."

A visitor to his place at White Plains came away after spending a night there, and declared
that the "real Charles Frohman had three dissipations--he smokes all day, he reads plays all
night, and--" He stopped.

"What is it?" was the breathless query.

"He plays croquet."

* * *

Frohman had a rare gift for publicity. More than once he turned what seemed to be a complete
failure into success. An experience with "Jane" will reveal this side of his versatility.

The bright little comedy hung fire for a while. One reason was that newspaper criticism in
New York had been rather unfavorable. Conspicuous among the unfriendly notices was one in the
Herald which was headed, "Jane Won't Go."

Frohman immediately capitalized this line. He had thousands of dodgers stuck up all over New
York. They contained three sentences, which read:

    "Jane won't go."
    Of course not.
    She's come to stay.

From that time on the piece grew in popularity and receipts and became a success.

* * *

In summing up the qualities that made Frohman great, one finds, in the last analysis, that
he had two in common with J. P. Morgan and the other dynamic leaders of men. One was an incisive,
almost uncanny, ability to probe into the hearts of men, strip away the superficial, and find
the real substance.

His experience with Clyde Fitch emphasized this to a remarkable degree. Personally no two men
could have been more opposite. One was the product of democracy, buoyant and self-made, while
the other represented an intellectual, almost effeminate, aristocracy. Yet nearly from the
start Frohman perceived the bigness of vision and the profound understanding that lurked behind
Fitch's almost superficial exterior.

In common, too, with Morgan, Roosevelt, and others of the same type, Frohman had an extraordinary
quality of unconscious hypnotism. Men who came to him in anger went away in satisfied peace.
They succumbed to what was an overwhelming and compelling personality.

He proved this in the handling of his women stars. They combined a group of varied and conflicting
temperaments. Each wanted a separate and distinct place in his affections, and each got it.
It was part of the genius of the man to make each of his close associates feel that he or she
had a definite niche apart. His was the perfecting understanding, and no one better expressed
it than Ethel Barrymore, who said, "To try to explain something to Charles Frohman was to insult
him."

XIX

"WHY FEAR DEATH?"

And now the final phase.

The last years of Charles Frohman's life were racked with physical pain that strained his courageous
philosophy to the utmost. Yet he faced this almost incessant travail just as he had faced all
other emergencies--with composure.

One day in 1912 he fell on the porch of the house at White Plains and hurt his right knee.
It gave him considerable trouble. At first he believed that it was only a bad bruise. In a
few days articular rheumatism developed. It affected all of his joints, and it held him in
a thrall of agony until the end of his life.

Shortly after his return to the city (he now lived at the Hotel Knickerbocker) he was compelled
to take to his bed. For over six months he was a prisoner in his apartment, suffering tortures.
Yet from this pain-racked post he tried to direct his large affairs. There was a telephone
at his bedside, and he used it until weakness prevented him from holding the receiver.

He could not go to the theater, so the theater was brought to him. More than one preliminary
rehearsal was held in his drawing-room. This was particularly true of musical pieces. The music
distracted him from his pain.

Though prostrate with pain, his dogged determination to keep on doing things held. Barrie sent
him the manuscript of a skit called "A Slice of Life." It was a brilliant satire on the modern
play. Frohman picked Ethel Barrymore (who was then playing in "Cousin Kate" at the Empire),
John Barrymore, and Hattie Williams to do it, and the rehearsals were held in the manager's
rooms at the Knickerbocker.

Frohman was as much interested in this one-act piece as if it had been a five-act drama. His
absorption in it helped to divert his mind from the pain that had sadly reduced the once rotund
body.

With "A Slice of Life" he introduced another one of the many innovations that he brought to
the stage. The play was projected as a surprise. No announcement of title was made. The advertisements
simply stated that Charles Frohman would present "A Novelty" at the Empire Theater at eight
o'clock on a certain evening.

Frohman was unable to attend the opening performance, so he wrote a little speech which was
spoken by William Seymour. The speech was rehearsed as carefully as the play. A dozen times
the stage-director delivered it before his chief, who indicated the various phrases to be emphasized.

It was during the era of the New Theater when the so-called "advanced drama" was much exploited.
Frohman had little patience with this sort of dramatic thing. The little speech conveys something
of his satirical feeling about the millionaire-endowed theatrical project which was then agitating
New York.

Here is the speech as Frohman wrote it:

     Ladies and Gentlemen:--My appearance here to-night is by way of
     apology. I am here representing Mr. Charles Frohman--you may have
     heard of him--the manager of this theater, the Empire.

     His idea in announcing a novelty in connection with Miss
     Barrymore's play, "Cousin Kate," was really for the purpose of
     getting you here once in time for the ringing up of the curtain.
     This will be a special performance of a play to be given by a few
     rising members of the School of Acting connected with this theater,
     the Empire, of which he is proud--very proud. It is not an old
     modern play, but what is called to-day "The Advanced Drama," made
     possible here to-night by the momentary holiday of the New Theater,
     and it is called "A Slice of Life."

During those desperate days when, like Heinrich Heine, he seemed to be lying in a "mattress
grave," his dauntless humor never forsook him, as this little incident will show: Some years
previous, Gillette suffered a breakdown from overwork. When the actor-playwright went to his
home at Hartford to recuperate his sister remonstrated with him.

"You must stop work for a long while," she said. "That man Frohman is killing you." Gillette
afterward told Frohman about it.

Frohman now lay on a bed of agony, and Gillette came to see him. The sick man remembered the
episode of the long ago, and said, weakly, to his visitor:

"Gillette, tell your sister that you are killing me."

With the martyrdom of incessant pain came a ripening of the man's character. Frohman developed
a great admiration for Lincoln. Often he would ask Gillette to read him the famous "Gettysburg
Address." Simple, haunting melodies like "The Lost Chord" took hold of him. Marie Doro was
frequently summoned to play it for him on the piano. Although his courage did not falter, he
looked upon men and events with a larger and deeper philosophy.

During that first critical stage of the rheumatism he sank very low. His two devoted friends,
Dillingham and Paul Potter, came to him daily. Each had his regular watch. Dillingham came
in the morning and read and talked with the invalid for hours. He managed to bring a new story
or a fresh joke every day.

Potter reported at nine in the evening and remained until two o'clock in the morning, or at
whatever hour sleep came to the relief of the sick man. One of the compensations of those long
vigils was the phonograph. Frohman was very fond of a tune called "Alexander's Rag-Time Band."
The nurse would put this record in the machine and then leave. When it ran out, Potter, who
never could learn how to renew the instrument, simply turned the crank again. There were many
nights when Frohman listened to this famous rag-time song not less than twenty times. But he
did not mind it.

In his illness Frohman was like a child. He was afraid of the night. He begged Potter to tell
him stories, and the author of so many plays spun and unfolded weird and wonderful tales of
travel and adventure. Like a child, too, Frohman kept on saying, "More, more," and often Potter
went on talking into the dawn.

Potter, like all his comrades in that small and devoted group of Frohman intimates, did his
utmost to shield his friend from hurt. When Frohman launched a new play during those bedridden
days Potter would wait until the so-called "bull-dog" editions of the morning papers (the very
earliest ones) were out. Then he would go down to the street and get them. If the notice was
favorable he would read it to Frohman. If it was unfriendly Potter would say that the paper
was not yet out, preferring that the manager read the bad news when it was broad daylight and
it could not interfere with his sleep.

The humor and comradeship which always marked Frohman's close personal relations were not lacking
in those nights when the life of the valiant little man hung by a thread. When all other means
of inducing sleep failed, Potter found a sure cure for insomnia.

"Just as soon as I talked to Frohman about my own dramatic projects," he says, "he would fall
asleep. So, when the night grew long and the travel stories failed, and even 'Alexander's Rag-Time
Band' grew stale, I would start off by saying: 'I have a new play in mind. This is the way
the plot goes.' Then Frohman's eyes would close; before long he would be asleep, and I crept
noiselessly out."

Occasionally during those long conflicts with pain Frohman saw through the glass darkly. His
intense and constant suffering, for the time, put iron into his well-nigh indomitable soul.

"I'm all in," he would say to Potter. "The luck is against me. The star system has killed my
judgment. I no longer know a good play from a bad. The sooner they 'scrap' me the better."

His thin fingers tapped on the bedspread, and, like Colonel Newcome, he awaited the Schoolmaster's
final call.

"You and I," he would continue, "have seen our period out. What comes next on the American
stage? Cheap prices, I suppose. Best seats everywhere for a dollar, or even fifty cents; with
musical shows alone excepted. Authors' royalties cut to ribbons; actors' salaries pared to
nothing. Popular drama, bloody, murderous, ousting drawing-room comedy. Crook plays, shop-girl
plays, slangy American farces, nude women invading the auditorium as in Paris."

"And then?" asked Potter.

"Chaos," said he. "Fortunately you and I won't live to see it. Turn on the phonograph and let
'Alexander's Rag-time Band' cheer us up."

He got well enough to walk around with a stick, and with movement came a return of the old
enthusiasm. A man of less indomitable will would have succumbed and become a permanent invalid.
Not so with Frohman. He even got humor out of his misfortune, because he called his cane his
"wife." He became a familiar sight on that part of Broadway between the Knickerbocker Hotel
and the Empire Theater as he walked to and fro. It was about all the walking he could do.

He kept on producing plays, and despite the physical hardships under which he labored he attended
and conducted rehearsals. With the pain settling in him more and more, he believed himself
incurable. Yet less than four people knew that he felt that the old titanic power was gone,
never to return.

The great war, on whose stupendous altar he was to be an innocent victim, affected him strangely.
The horror, the tragedy, the wantonness of it all touched him mightily. Indeed, it seemed to
be an obsession with him, and he talked about it constantly, unmindful of the fact that the
cruel destiny that was shaping its bloody course had also marked him for death.

Early during the war he saw some verses that made a deep impression on him. They were called
"In the Ambulance," and related to the experience of a wounded soldier. He learned them by
heart, and he never tired of repeating them. They ran like this:

    "Two rows of cabbages;
      Two of curly greens;
    Two rows of early peas;
      Two of kidney-beans."

    That's what he's muttering,
      Making such a song,
    Keeping all the chaps awake
      The whole night long.

It was Frohman's intense feeling about the war, that led him to produce "The Hyphen." Its rejection
by the public hurt him unspeakably. Yet he regarded the fate of the play as just one more phase
of the big game of life. He smiled and went his way.

The rheumatism still oppressed him, but he turned his face resolutely toward the future. War
or peace, pain or relief, he was not to be deprived of his annual trip to England. He was involved
in some litigation that required his presence in London. Besides, the city by the Thames called
to him, and behind this call was the appeal of old and loved associations. With all his wonted
enthusiasm he wrote to his friends at Marlow telling them that he was coming over and that
he would soon be in their midst.

Frohman now made ready for this trip. When he announced that he was going on the Lusitania
his friends and associates made vigorous protest, which he derided with a smile. Thus, in the
approach to death, just as in the path to great success, opposition only made him all the more
decided. With regard to his sailing on the Lusitania, this tenacity of purpose was his doom.

Whether he had a premonition or not, the fact remains that he said and did things during the
days before he sailed which uncannily suggested that the end was not unexpected. For one thing,
he dictated his whole program for the next season before he started. It was something that
he had never done before.

When Marie Doro came to his office to say good-by he pulled out a little red pocket note-book
in which he jotted down many things and suddenly said:

"Queer, but the little book is full. There is no room for anything else."

Just as he was warned not to produce "The Hyphen," so was he now cautioned by anonymous correspondents
(and even by mysterious telephone messages) not to take the Lusitania. But all this merely
tightened his purpose.

He met the danger with his usual jest. On the day before he sailed he went up to bid his old
friend and colleague, Al Hayman, good-by. Hayman, like all his associates, warned him not to
go on the Lusitania.

"Do you think there is any danger?" asked Frohman.

"Yes, I do," replied Hayman.

"Well, I am going, anyhow," was the answer.

After he had shaken hands he stopped at the door and said, smilingly:

"Well, Al, if you want to write to me just address the letter care of the German Submarine U 4."

Those last days ashore were filled with a strange mellowness. Ethel Barrymore came down from
Boston to see him. They had an intimate talk about the old days. When she left him she saw
tears in his eyes. That night, just as she was about to go on in "The Shadow" in Boston, she
received this telegram from him:

     Nice talk, Ethel. Good-by. C. F.

The Lusitania sailed at ten o'clock on Saturday morning, May 1, 1915. Even at the dock Frohman
could not resist his little joke. When Paul Potter, who saw him off, said to him:

"Aren't you afraid of the U boats, C. F.?"

"No, I am only afraid of the I O U's," was the reply.

In his farewell steamer letter to Dillingham, written as the huge ship was plowing her way
down the bay, he drew a picture of a submarine attacking a transatlantic liner. The last lines
he wrote on the boat were prophetic of his fate. Ann Murdock had sent him a large steamer basket
in the shape of a ship. The lines to her, brought back by the ship's pilot, were:

    The little ship you sent is more wonderful
    than the big one that takes me away from you.

Like most of his distinguished fellow-voyagers, and they included Charles Klein, Elbert Hubbard,
Justus Miles Forman, and Alfred G. Vanderbilt, Frohman had frequently traveled on the Lusitania.
By a curious coincidence he had once planned to use her sister ship, the Mauretania, for one
of his daring innovations. He had a transatlantic theater in mind. In other words, he proposed
to produce whole plays on shipboard. He took over a small company headed by Marie Doro to try
out the experiment. Early on the voyage Miss Doro succumbed to seasickness and the project
was abandoned.

The last journey of the Lusitania was uneventful until that final fateful day. Frohman had
kept to his cabin during the greater part of the trip. He was still suffering great pain in
his right knee, and walked the deck with difficulty. Occasionally he appeared in the smoking-room,
and was present at the ship's concert on the night before the end.

At 2.33 o'clock on the afternoon of May 7th the great vessel rode to her death. Eight miles
off the Head of Kinsale, and within sight of the Irish coast, she was torpedoed by a German
submarine. She sank in half an hour, with frightful loss of life, including more than a hundred
Americans.

Frohman's hour was at hand, and he met it with the smiling equanimity and unflinching courage
with which he had faced every other crisis in his life. When the crash came he was on the upper
promenade deck. He had just come from his luncheon and was talking with George Vernon, the
brother-in-law of Rita Jolivet, the actress, who was also on board. They were now joined by
Captain Scott, an Englishman on his way from India to enlist. When Miss Jolivet reached them
Frohman was smoking a cigar and was calm and apparently undisturbed.

Scott went below to get some life-belts. He returned with only two. He had started up with
three, but gave one to a woman on the way. Miss Jolivet had provided herself with a belt.

Scott started to put one of the life-preservers on Frohman, who protested. Finally, with great
reluctance, he acquiesced. There was no belt left for Scott. Frohman insisted that he get one,
whereupon the soldier said:

"If you must die, it is only for once."

There was a responsive look and a whimsical smile on Frohman's face at this remark. He kept
on smoking. Then he started to talk about the Germans. "I didn't think they would do it," he
said. He was apparently the most unruffled person on the ship.

The great liner began to lurch. Frohman now said to Miss Jolivet:

"You had better hold on the rail and save your strength."

The ship's list became greater; huge waves rolled up, carrying wreckage and bodies on their
crest. Then, with all the terror of destruction about him, Frohman said to his associates,
with the serene smile still on his face:

"Why fear death? It is the most beautiful adventure of life."

Instinctively the four people moved closer together, they joined hands by a common impulse,
and stood awaiting the end.

The ship gave a sudden lurch; once more a mighty green cliff of water came rushing up, bearing
its tide of dead and debris; again Frohman started to say the speech that was to be his valedictory.
He had hardly repeated the first three words--"Why fear death?"--when the group was engulfed
and all sank beneath the surface of the sea.

No situation of the thousands that he had created in the theater was so vividly or so unaffectedly
dramatic as the great manager's own exit from the stage of life. Smilingly he had made his
way through innumerable difficulties; smilingly and with the highest heroism he met his fate.

The only survivor of the quartet that stood hand in hand on those death-cluttered decks was
Miss Jolivet, and it was she who told the story of those last thrilling minutes.

Charles Frohman's body was recovered the next day and brought to Queenstown. A fortnight later
it reached New York. On the casket was the American flag that the dead man had loved so well.
Though princes of capital, famous playwrights, and international authorities on law and art
went down with him, the loss of Frohman overshadowed all others. In the eyes of the world,
the loss of the Lusitania was the loss of Charles Frohman.

His noble and eloquent final words, so rich with courageous philosophy, not only joined the
category of the great farewells of all time, but wherever read or uttered will give humanity
a fresher faith with which to meet the inevitable. In a supreme moment of the most colossal
drama that human passion ever staged, fate literally hurled him into the universal lime-light
to enact a part that gave him an undying glory. The shyest of men became the world's observed.

The last tribute to Charles Frohman was the most remarkable demonstration of sorrow in the
history of the theater. The one-time barefoot boy of Sandusky, Ohio, who had projected so many
people into eminence and who had himself hidden behind the rampart of his own activities, was
widely mourned.

The principal funeral services were held at the Temple Emanu-El in New York. Here gathered
a notable assemblage that took reverent toll of all callings and creeds. It was proud to do
honor to the man who had achieved so much and who had died so heroically.

At the bier Augustus Thomas delivered an eloquent address that fittingly summed up the life
and purpose of the greatest force that the English-speaking theater has yet known. Among other
things he said:

"A wise man counseled, 'Look into your heart and write': 'C. F.' looked into his heart and
listened. He had that quoted quality of genius that made him believe his own thought, made
him know that what was true for him in his private heart was true for all mankind. That was
the secret of his power. It was the golden key to both his understanding and expression.

"He was a fettered and a prisoned poet, often in his finest moments inarticulate. Working in
the theater with his companies and stars, with the women and the men who knew and loved him,
he accomplished less by word than by a radiating vital force that brought them into his intensity
of feeling. In his social intercourse and comradeship, telling a dramatic or a comic story,
at a certain pressure of its progress where other men depend on paragraphs and phrases he coined
a near-word and a sign, and by a graphic and exalted pantomime ambushed and captured our emotions.

"His mind was clear and tranquil as a mountain lake, its quiet depths reflecting all the varied
beauty of the bending skies. He had the gift of epitome. The men who knew him best valued his
estimate, not only of the things in his own profession, but of any notable event or deed or
tendency. Often his spontaneous comment on a cabled utterance or act laid stress upon the word
or moment that next day served as captions for the significant review. The printed thought
of the leading statesman, the outlook of the financier, the decision of the commanding soldier,
or the vision of the poet found kinship in his sympathy, not because he strove tiptoe to apprehend
its elevation, but because his spirit was native to that plane."

Coincident with the New York funeral, services were held at Los Angeles at the instigation
of Maude Adams; at San Francisco under the sponsorship of John Drew; at Tacoma at the behest
of Billie Burke; at Providence under the direction of Julia Sanderson, Donald Brian, and Joseph
Cawthorn. Thus a nation-wide chain of grief linked the stars of the Frohman heaven.

Nor did foreign lands fail to render homage to the memory of Charles Frohman. A memorial was
held at St.-Martins-in-the-Fields, in London, almost within stone's-throw of the Duke of York's
Theater, in which he took so much pride. In the presence of a distinguished company that included
the chivalry and flower of the British theater, the sub-deacon of St. Paul's conducted services
for the self-made American who had risen from advance-agent to be the theatrical master of
his times.

In Paris the French Society of Authors eulogized the man who had been their sympathetic envoy
and sincere sponsor at the throne of American appreciation.

Thus fell the curtain on Charles Frohman. As in life he had joined two continents by the bonds
of his daring and courageous enterprise, so on his death did those two worlds unite to do him
honor. He had not lived in vain.

Appendix A

THE LETTERS OF CHARLES FROHMAN

Unlike many men of achievement, Charles Frohman was not a prolific letter-writer. He avoided
letter-writing whenever it was possible. When he could not convey his message orally he resorted
to the telegraph. Letters were the last resort.

He had a sort of constitutional objection to long letters. The only lengthy epistles that ever
came from him were dictated and referred to matters of business. They all have one quality
in common. As soon as he had concluded the discussion of the topic in mind he would immediately
tell about the fortunes of his plays. He seldom failed to make a reference to the business
that Maude Adams was doing (for her immense success was very dear to his heart), and he always
commented on his own strenuous activities. He liked to talk about the things he was doing.

The really intimate Frohman letters were always written by hand on scraps of paper, and were
short, jerky, and epigrammatic. Most of these were written, or rather scratched, to intimates
like James M. Barrie, Paul Potter, and Haddon Chambers.

As indicated in one of the chapters of this book, Frohman delighted in caricature. To a few
of his friends he would send a humorous cartoon instead of a letter. He caricatured whatever
he saw, whether riding on trains or eating in restaurants. If he wanted a friend to dine with
him he would sketch a rough head and mark it "Me"; then he would draw another head and label
it "You." Between these heads he would make a picture of a table, and under it scrawl, "Knickerbocker,
Friday, 7 o'clock."

Frohman seldom used pen and ink. Most of his letters were written with the heavy blue editorial
pencil that he liked to use. He wrote an atrocious hand. His only competitor in this way was
his close friend Barrie. The general verdict among the people who have read the writing of
both men is that Frohman took the palm for illegible chirography.

Frohman could pack a world of meaning into his letters. To a fellow-manager who had written
to Boston to ask if he had seen a certain actress play, he replied: "No, I have had the great
pleasure of not seeing her act."

His letters reflect his moods and throw intimate light on his character. He would always have
his joke. To William Collier, who had sent him a box for a play that he was doing in New York,
he once wrote: "I do not think I will have any difficulty in finding your theater, although
a great many new theaters have gone up. Many old ones have 'gone up' too."

His swift jugglery with words is always manifest. To Alfred Sutro he sent this sentence notifying
him that his play was to go into rehearsal: "The die is cast--but not the play."

Through his letters there shines his uncompromising rule of life. Writing to W. Lestocq, his
agent in London, in reference to the English failure of "Years of Discretion," he said: "It
is a failure, and that is the end of it. You can't get around failure, so we must go on to
something else."

* * *

The number of available Frohman letters is not large. The following, gathered from various
sources, will serve to indicate something of their character:

To an English author whose play, a weak one, was rapidly failing:

     No; it is not the war that is affecting your business. It is the
     play--nothing else.

To Cyril Maude, whose penmanship is notably indecipherable:

     I can't read your handwriting very well; but I wonder if you can
     read my typewriting. Just pretend I typed this myself.... Speaking
     of hits, Granville Barker arrived yesterday, and the city suddenly
     became terribly cold--awful weather. Barker will do well.

To Haddon Chambers:

     Last night we produced "Driven" against your judgment. The press
     not favorable. But still I'm hoping.

To a colleague:

     I announced "Driven" as a comedy. Next day I called it a play. But
     soon I may call it off.

To W. Lestocq:

     The American actors over here are worried about so many English
     actors in our midst. I employ both kinds--that is, I want good
     actors only.

To an English author:

     As to conditions here being bad for good plays; that is a joke. The
     distressful business is for the bad plays that I and other managers
     sometimes produce.

To one of his managers:

     Do not use the line "The World-Famous Tri-Star Combination." Just
     say "The Great Three-Star Combination." It is easier to understand.
     And all will be well.

To one of his managers who spoke of the superiority of an actress who had replaced another
about to retire to private life:

     But now that her stage life is over we should remember her years of
     good work. She had a simple, childish, fairy-like appeal. I write
     this to you to express my feeling for one who has left our work for
     good, and I can think now only of pleasant memories. I want you to
     feel the same.

To an English author, January, 1915:

     Over here they say the real heroes of the year are the managers
     that dare produce new plays.

To a business colleague about a singing comedian who was laid up with a serious illness:

     I am sorry he is sick. But that was a rotten thing for him to
     do--to steal our song. I suppose he is better. Only the good die
     young.

To Marie Doro:

     I saw you in the picture play. It and you were fine. What a lot of
     money you make! When I return from London I'm going to see if I can
     earn $10 a day to play in some of the screens. We are all going up
     to the Atlantic Ocean Island to see them taking you in the "White
     Pearl" pictures.

Refusing to go to a public banquet:

     That's the first free thing that has been offered me this year. But
     there are three things my physician forbids me from doing--to eat,
     drink, or talk.

To a manager:

     There are no bad towns--only bad plays!

On hearing that an actress in his employ had reflected on his management:

     In this message I am charged with neglecting your interests. This
     is a shock to me, because when one neglects his trust, he is
     dishonest. This is the first time I have ever been so accused, and
     I am wondering if you inspired the message. I think it important
     that you should know.

Being adjured by one of the family to take more exercise:

     I drove out to Richmond. Then I walked a mile. Now I hope you'll be
     satisfied.

To his sisters (he lived then at the Waldorf, but joined the family at a weekly dinner up-town):

     I am sending you a cook-book by Oscar of this hotel. You may find
     some use for it.

When he came to the next weekly dinner he was offered several choice dishes prepared from Oscar's
recipes. "I see my mistake," he said. "I wanted my usual home dinner. You give me what I receive
all the time at the hotel."

To Alfred Sutro, in London:

     Give us something full of situations, and we will give you a bully
     time again in America.

To William Seymour, his stage-manager, about a performance of one of his plays:

     When you rehearse to-day will you try and get the old woman out of
     too much crying; get some smiles, and stop her screwing up her face
     every time she speaks. Of course, it's nervousness, but it looks as
     if she were ill.

To one of his associates:

     Miss Adams's receipts last week in Boston were the largest in the
     history of Boston theaters or anywhere--$23,000. But I had some
     others which I won't tell you about.

To an English author in 1913:

     At present the taste is "down with light plays, down with literary
     plays." They want plays with dramatic situations, intrigue, sex
     conflict. There is no use in giving the public what it does not
     want and what they ought to have. I am just finding that out, with
     much cost.

To a French agent:

     It seems a little reckless to be asked to pay $2,500 for the
     privilege of reading a new French play. The author seems to want to
     get rich quickly. I would be willing to add to his wealth if he has
     something that can be produced without such a preliminary penalty.

To W. Lestocq:

     When one talks to an English author about "Diplomacy," he says,
     "Oh, that's a theatrical play!" I wish I could get another like it.

To an English manager:

     A hundred theaters here are a few too many. Houses have closed on a
     Saturday night without any warning. Boston, Chicago, and
     Philadelphia have been better. You see we have this wonderful
     country to fall back on, which makes it different from London.

To an author in London:

     What you say is quite true; a good play is a good play; but the
     difficulty I find is to ascertain through the public and the
     box-office what they think is a good play. Our opinion is only
     good for ourselves. But give me a dramatic play and I'll put it at
     once to the test.

To Hubert Henry Davies, the dramatist, during an interim of that author's activities:

     It grieves me when I can't get your material going, especially as I
     want to come over as soon as I can and get one of those nice
     lunches in your nice apartment.

To the manager of an up-state New York theater regarding an impending first-night performance:

     I hope we shall draw a representative audience the first night. I
     know audiences with you are sometimes a little reluctant about
     first nights. I can't understand this myself. In my opinion there
     is an extra thrill for them in the experience of a first
     performance, as it is a special event.

To Granville Barker, January, 1913:

     I am very jealous of the Barrie plays, and I do want them for my
     own theater for revivals.... I hear such good reports about your
     Shakespearian work that I am awfully pleased. I have had a Marconi
     from Shakespeare himself, in which he speaks highly of what you
     have done for his work. I am sure this will be as gratifying to you
     as it is to me.

Alluding to his painful rheumatism in a letter to George Edwardes, the producer, in England,
January, 1913:

     I can't run twelve yards, but I can drink a lot of that bottled
     lemonade of yours when I get over. In fact, at the moment I think
     that is the best thing running in London.

In February, 1913, Frohman made frequent trips to Baltimore to rehearse and superintend the
production of his plays in that city. He has this to say of Baltimore in a letter to Tunis
F. Dean, manager of a theater there:

     I was glad to have an opportunity of seeing your fine theater, for
     I have decided on a very important production with one of our
     leading stars there next season. So that I shall spend a week in
     Baltimore. I like that. There is no one living in Baltimore that
     has a greater regard for that fine, dignified city. I have had it
     for years, and with the beautiful theater and my feeling for
     Baltimore and you at the head of that theater, I am looking forward
     with pleasure to coming to you next season.

Frohman was simple, direct, and forcible in his criticism of plays. In rejecting a French play,
he wrote to Michael Morton in defense of his judgment, New York, February, 1913:

     I was awfully glad you made arrangements for the play, the one I
     don't like, and I hope the other fellow is right. These
     three-cornered French plays are going to have a hard time over here
     in the future unless they contain something that is pretty big,
     novel, or human. The guilty wife is a joke here now, and they have
     lots of fun when they play these scenes in these plays. The
     American and English play is different. They get there quicker in a
     different manner instead of the old-fashioned scheme. Of course,
     French plays, as you say, may be laid in England and in America. I
     understand that. But even then it seems to be about the same as if
     they were in France.

His brief, epigrammatic style of criticism is evident in a letter to Charles B. Dillingham,
wherein he speaks of a certain play under consideration:

     I think the end of the play is not good. It is that old-time
     stand-around-with-a-glass-of-wine-in-your-hand and wish success to
     the happy people.

Extracts from an interview with Frohman which he wrote for the London papers, March, 1913:

     There will be no change in my work of producing for the London
     stage. I shall continue to do so at my own theaters or with other
     London managers just as long as I am producing on any stage, and I
     fear that will be for a long time yet, as I am younger now than I
     was twenty years ago.

Prior to his departure for England he wrote the following to John Drew in March, 1913:

     Thanks for your fine letter. It is like this, John: I hope to get
     off next week, but I don't seem to be able to get the
     accommodations I want on either one of the steamers that I should
     like to travel on, and that sail next week. I need a little special
     accommodation on account of my leg, which still refuses to answer
     my call and requires the big stick.

To Alfred Sutro, in January, 1913, on the current taste in plays:

     These American plays with thieves, burglars, detectives, and
     pistols seem to be the real things over here just now. None of them
     has failed.

Memorandum for his office-boy, Peter, for a week's supply of his favorite drinks:

     Get me plenty of orange-juice, lemon soda, ginger ale,
     sarsaparilla, buttermilk.

To Alfred Sutro, 1913:

     Haddon Chambers sails to-day. You may see him before you see this.
     He leaves behind him what I think will give him many happy returns
     (box-office) of the season, as Miss Barrymore is doing so well with
     his "Tante."

To W. Lestocq, concerning one of his leading London actresses:

     Miss Titheridge is all right, as I wrote Morton, if her emotions
     can be kept down, and if she can try to make the audience act more,
     and act less herself.

To Michael Morton regarding an actress:

     She needs to be told that real acting is not to act, but to make
     the audience feel, and not feel so much herself.

To the editor of a popular monthly magazine upon its first birthday:

     I understand that your September issue will be made to mark ----'s
     first birthday. Judging from your paper your birthday plans miss
     the issue; because---- becomes a year younger every September. I do
     not congratulate you even upon this fact; because you cannot help
     it. I do not congratulate your readers because they get your
     paper so very cheap. I do congratulate myself, however, for
     calling attention to these wonderful facts.

To W. Lestocq, referring to a statement made by R. C.