"My mother, Silva, and her mother, was bought from de Rutledge family in Charleston, by General
Bratton. My grandfather, on my mother's side, was name Edward Rutledge. No, sir, I don't mean
he was a white man; he just ginger-cake color, so my mother say. My pappy say his father was
a full-blooded Indian, so, dat makes three bloods in my veins, white folks, Indian folks, and
Negro folks. Derefore, us been thrifty like de white man, crafty like de Indians, and hard
workin' like de Negroes.

"In slavery time, us lived in one of de nice log houses in de Bratton quarters. Our beds was
pole beds, wid wheat straw ticks, and cotton pillows. De Brattons was always sheep raisers,
and us had woolen blankets and woolen clothes in de winter. My mother was one of de seamstresses;
she make clothes for de slaves. Course, I'm tellin' you what she tell me, mostly. I was too
little to 'member much 'bout slavery time. All de little niggers run 'round in deir shirt-tails
in summer time; never work any, just hunt for grapes, muscadines, strawberries, chinquapins,
hickory nuts, calamus root, slippery elmer (elm) bark, wild cherries, mulberries, and red and
black haws, and was as happy as de days was long.

"I just can 'member de Yankees. Don't 'member dat they was so bad. You know they say even de
devil ain't as black as he is painted. De Yankees did take off all de mules, cows, hogs, and
sheep, and ransack de smoke-house, but they never burnt a thing at our place. Folks wonder
at dat. Some say it was 'cause General Bratton was a high 'gree mason.

"While Marse John, who was a Confederate General, was off in de war, us had overseers. They
made mother and everybody go to do field. De little chillun was put in charge, in de daytime,
wid an old 'mauma', as they called them in them days. Dere was so many, twenty-five or thirty,
dat they had to be fed out of doors. At sundown they was 'sembled in a tent, and deir mammies
would come and git them and take them home. Dere used to be some scrappin' over de pot liquor
dat was brought out in big pans. De little chillun would scrouge around wid deir tin cups and
dip into de pan for de bean, pea, or turnip pot liquor. Some funny scraps took place, wid de
old mauma tryin' to separate de squallin', pushin', fightin' chillun.

"De overseers was Wade Rawls and a Mr. Timms. After freedom, us moved to Winnsboro, to Dr.
Will Bratton's farm near Mt. Zion College. I went to school to Mr. Richardson and Miss Julia
Fripp, white teachers employed by northern white people. I got very 'ligious 'bout dat time,
but de brand got all rubbed out, when us went to work for Major Woodward. His 'ligion was to
play de fiddle, go fox huntin', and ride 'round gittin' Negroes to wear a red shirt and vote
de democrat ticket. I went 'long wid him and done my part. They tell a tale on Marse Tom Woodward
and I 'spects it's true:

"He was runnin' for some kind of office and was goin', nex' day, up in de dark corner of Fairfield
to meet people. Him hear dat a old fellow name Uriah Wright, controlled all de votes at dat
box and dat he was a fox hunter to beat de band. He 'quire 'round 'bout Mr. Wright's dogs.
He find out dat a dog name 'Ring Smith' was de best 'strike'. Jolly Wright was de name of de
cold 'trailer', and Molly Clowney was de fastest dog of de pack. Marse Tom got all dis well
in his mind, and nex' day rode up to old Mr. Wright's, 'bout dinner time.

"De old man had just come in from de field. Marse Tom rode up to de gate and say; 'Is dis Dr.
Wright?' De old man say: 'Dat's what de people call me 'round here.' Marse Tom say: 'My name
is Woodward. I am on my first political legs, and am goin' 'round to see and be seen, if not
by everybody, certainly by de most prominent and 'fluential citizens of each section.' Then
de old man say: 'Git down. Git down. You are a monstrous likely man. I'll take you in to see
Pinky, my wife, and we'll see what she has to say 'bout it.'

"Marse Tom got down off his horse and was a goin' to de house talkin' all de time 'bout crops.
Spyin' de dogs lyin' 'round in de shade, him say: 'Dr. Wright, I am a 'culiar man. I love de
ladies and admire them much but, if you'll pardon my weakness, a fine hound dog comes nearer
perfection, in my eye, than anything our Father in heaven ever made to live on this green earth!'

"'And what do you know 'bout hounds?' Old man Uriah asked, turnin' from de house and followin'
Marse Tom to where de dogs was. Marse Tom set down. De whole pack come to where he was, sniffed
and smelt him, and wag deir tails in a friendly way. Marse Tom say: 'What is de name of dis
dog? Ring Smith, did you say, Doctor? An uncommon fine dog he seems to me. If dere be any truth
in signs, he oughta be a good strike.' De old man reply: 'Good strike, did you say? If dere
was 5,000 dogs here, I would bet a million dollars dat Ring Smith would open three miles ahead
of the best in de bunch. And you might go befo' a trial justice and swear it was a fox, when
he opened on de trail.'

"Marse Tom nex' examined de pale black and tan dog, which was Jolly Wright, de coldest trailer.
Feelin' his nose and eyein' him all over, he say at last: 'Dr. Wright, I think dis is one of
de most remarkable dogs I has ever seen. I would say he is de coldest trailer of your pack?'

"'Coldest, did you say? Why he can smell them after they have been along three or four weeks.'
Molly Clowney was nex' picked out by Marse Tom, and come in for his turn. 'Here ought to be
de apple of your eyes, Dr. Wright,' say Marse Tom, 'for if I know anything 'bout dogs, this
is the swiftest animal dat ever run on four feet. Tell me now, honor bright, can't she out
run anything in these parts?'

"'Run, did you say? No. She can't run a bit. But dere ain't a crow nor a turkey buzzard, dat
ever crossed de dark corner, dat can hold a candle to her flyin'. I've seen her run under them
and outrun deir shadows many times. Dinner is 'bout ready, and I want you to meet Pinky.'

"Marse Tom was took in de house and de old man led him 'round like a fine horse at a show or
fair. 'Why, Pinky, he is smart; got more sense than all de candidates put together. He is kin
to old preacher Billy Woodward, de smartest man, I heard my daddy say, in Europe, Asia, Africa,
North America, or South America.' They say Marse Tom promised befo' he left to pass a bill
dat no fence was to be higher than five rails, to suit fox hunters. Then de old man tell Miss
Pinky to bring his fiddle, and he played 'De Devil's Dream'. When he finished, Marse Tom grab
de fiddle and played: 'Hell Broke Loose In Georgia', wid such power and skill dat de old man,
Uriah, hugged Miss Pinky and cut de 'Pigeon Wing' all over de floor. Marse Tom, they say, carry
every vote at dat dark corner box.

"I fall in love with Mary Hall. Got her, slick as a fox. Us had ten chillun. Eight is livin'.
Robert is at de Winnsboro Cotton Mills. Ed in de same place. Estelle marry a Ford, and has
some land near Winnsboro. Maggie marry a Pickett. Her husband took her to Washington. John
Wesley is at Greensboro. Florence marry a Barber and lives in Winston Salem, N.C. Charley is
in Winnsboro. Corinne marry a McDuff and is in Winnsboro.

"Mighty glad to talk to you, and will come some day and try to bring you a 'possum. You say
you would like to have one 'bout Thanksgivin' Day?" Den he live in a big house jes' outside
o' Union, called 'Herndon Terrace', and 'sides dat, he was de biggest lawyer dat was in Union.

"Furs' 'membrance was at de age o' three when as yet I couldn't walk none. My mother cooked
some gingerbread. She told de chilluns to go down a hill and git her some oak bark. De furs'
one back wid de bark 'ud git de furs' gingerbread cake dat was done. My sister sot me down,
a sliding down de side o' her laag, atter she had carried me wid her down de side o' de hill.
Dem big chaps started to fooling time away. I grab up some bark in my hand and went toddling
and a crawling up to de house. My mother seed me a crawling and toddling, and she took de bark
out'n my hand and let me pull up to de do'. She cook de gingerbread, and when de other chilluns
got back, I was a setting up eating de furs' cake.

"She put gingerbread dough in a round oven dat had laags on hit. It looked like a skillet,
but it never had no handle. It had a lid to go on de top wid a groove to hold live coals. Live
coals went under it, too. Mother wanted oak chips and bark, 'cause dey made sech good hot coals
and clean ashes.

"Pots biled in de back o' de chimney, a hanging from a pot rack over de blazing fire. It had
pot hooks to git it down.

"Bread was cooked in a baker like de ginger cake was. Dey roasted both kinds o' 'taters in
de ashes and made corn bread in de ashes and called it ash cake, den.

"Us lived in a one-room log house. Fer de larger families, dey had two rooms wid de fire place
in de middle o' de room. Our'n was at de end by de winder. It had white or red oak, or pine
shingles to kivver de roof wid. O' course de shingles was hand made, never know'd how to make
no other'n.

"All beds was corded. Along side de railings, dar was holes bored to draw de ropes through,
as dese was what dey used in dem days instead o' slats. Ropes could be stretched to make de
bed lay good. Us never had a chair in de house. My paw made benches fer us to set by de fire
on. Marse Zack let de overseer git planks fer us. My paw was called Lyles Herndon. We had a
large plank table dat paw made. Never had no mirrows. Went to de spring to see ourselfs on
a Sunday morning. Never had no sech things as dressers in dem days. All us had, was a table,
benches and beds. And my paw made dem. Had plenty wood fer fire and pine knots fer lights when
de fire git low or stop blazing.

"Us had tallow candles. Why ev'ybody know'd how to make taller candles in dem days, dat wudd'n
nothing out de ordinary. All you had to do, was to kill a beef and take de taller from his
tripe and kidneys. See, it de fat you gits and boil it out. Stew it down jes' as folks does
hog lard dese days. De candle moulds was made out'n tin. Fer de wicks, all de wrapping string
was saved up, and dar wasn't much wrapping string in dem times. Put de string right down de
middle o' de mould and pour de hot taller all around it. De string will be de wick fer de candle.
Den de moulds was laid in raal cold water so dat de taller shrink when it harden, and dis 'low
de candle to drap easy from de mould and not break up. Why, it's jes' as easy to make taller
candles as it is to fall off'n a log.

"Firs' lamp dat I ever seed was a tin lamp. Dat was at Dr. Bates' place in Santuc. Him and
his brother, Fair, lived together. It was a little table lamp wid a handle and a flat wick.
He had it in his house. I was Dr. Bates' house-boy.

"My son tuck me back to Union last year, 1936, I 'members. Nothing didn't look natual 'cept
de jail. Ev'ything else look strange. Didn't see nobody I knowed, not narry living soul. Marse
big white house, wid dem kallems (columns) still setting dar; but de front all growed up in
pine trees. When I slave time darkey, dat front had flowers and figgers (statues), setting
all along de drive from de road to de big house. T'aint like dat now.

"Atter Mr. Herndon died, I was sold at de sale at Lockhart, to Dr. Tom Bates from Santuc. He
bought me fer $1800 so as dey allus told me. Marse Zack had a hund'ed slaves on dat plantation.
Stout, healthy ones, brung from $1,000 on up to $2,000 a head. When I was a young kid, I heard
dat he was offered $800 fer me, but he never tuck it. Dis de onliest time dat I was ever sold.
Marse Zack never bred no slaves, but us heard o' sech afar off. He let his darkies marry when
dey wanted to. He was a good man and he allus 'lowed de slaves to marry as dey pleased, 'cause
he lowed dat God never intent fer no souls to be bred as if dey was cattle, and he never practice
no sech.

"I is old and I does not realize who Marse Zack's overseer was, kaise dat been a long while.
I was Dr. Bates' house-boy. I allus heard dat Dr. Bates bought my maw fer $1,500, at de same
time he bought me. He give $2,000 fer my paw. My brother, Jim, was bought fer $1,800. Adolphus,
'bout fifteen years old, sold fer 'bout $1,400; and my onliest sister, Matilda, was bought
fer a maid gal, but I cannot recollect fer what price. She was purty good size gal den. All
o' dem is dead now but me, even all my white folks is done gone. I sees a lonely time now,
but my daughter treat me kind. I live wid her now.

"Dr. Bates' brother, Fair, was single man dat live in de house wid Dr. Bates fer thirteen years.
I lived in slavery fer over twenty-one years. Yas, I's twenty-one when Freedom come; and den
Dr. Bates up and marry Mr. Henry Sartor's daughter, Miss Ma'y. Don't know how long she live,
but she up and tuck and died; den he pop up and marry her sister, Anne. It was already done
Freedom when he marry de furs' time. When he married de second time, Mr. Fair, up and went
over to de Keenan place to live. He never did marry, hisself, 'though.

"As house-boy dar, I mind de flies from de table and tote dishes to and fro from de kitchen.
Kitchen fer ways off from de house. James Bates, his cook. Sometime I help wash de dishes.
Marse never had no big house, kaise he was late marrying. Dar wasn't no company in dem days,
neither.

"Rations was give out ev'y week from de smokehouse. Twenty-five or thirty hogs was killed at
de time. Lots o' sheep and goats was also killed. All our meat was raised, and us wore wooden-bottom
shoes. Raised all de wheat and corn. Hogs, cows, goats and sheep jes' run wild on Tinker and
Brushy Fork Creeks. On Sat'day us git one peck meal; three pounds o' meat and one-half gallon
black molasses fer a person; and dat's lot mo' dan dey gits in dese days and times. Sunday
morning, us git two, or maybe three pounds o' flour. Didn't know nothing 'bout no fat-back
in dem times. Had sassafras and sage teas and 'dinty' tea (dinty tea is made from a wild S.C.
weed).

"Marse's coachman called Tom 'Cuff', kaise he bought from old Dr. Culp. He driv two black hosses
to de carriage. Marse's saddle hoss was kinder reddish. Gen'ally he do his practice on hossback.
He good doctor, and carry his medicine in saddle bags. It was leather and fall on each side
o' de hoss's side. When you put something in it, you have to keep it balanced. Don't never
see no saddle bags; neither does you see no doctors gwine round on no hosses dese days.

"Never seed no ice in dem days 'cep in winter. Summer time, things was kept in de milk-house.
Well water was changed ev'y day to keep things cool. Ev'ybody drink milk in de summer, and
leave off hot tea, and de white folks only drink coffee fer dere breakfast. T'other times dey
also drink milk. It bees better fer your health all de time.

"At de mouth o' Brushy Fork and Tinker Creek whar dey goes together dar is a large pond o'
water. Us n'used to fish in dat pond. One day, me and Matilda tuck off a-fishing. I fell in
dat pond, and when I riz up, a raft o' brush held my head under dat water and I couldn't git
out no ways. 'Tilda sees my dangerment, and she jump in dat deep water and pull me from under
dat raff. She couldn't swim but us both got out. Can't think no mo' today."

  =Source:= Zack Herndon, Grenard St., Gaffney, S.C. (col. 93)
          Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C. 5/11/37

  Project #1655
  Stiles M. Scruggs
  Columbia S.C.

  LAVINIA HEYWARD'S STORY
  OF SLAVERY AND RECONSTRUCTION.

Lavinia Heyward, a Negro woman 67 years old, living at 515 Marion Street, Columbia, S.C., is
a daughter of ex-slaves. Her parents were Peter Jones and Rachel Bryant Jones. They married
in Columbia, soon after they were freed, in 1865. Lavinia reviews her mother's experiences
with a famous South Carolina family, before and after bondage, and takes a glance at Columbia's
progress in the past half century.

"Sho' I's been here 67 years, and I's seen a stragglin' town of 10,000 grow from poverty to
de present great city and riches. Shucks, I 'spects if you was to set me down at Broad River
bridge and tell me to go home, I might git lost tryin' to find my way to where I has lived
for many years. Durin' my time I's sho' seen dis city sad and glad, and I's happy to say dat
it seem to be feelin' a right smart lak itself now.

"My mammy, and her daddy and mammy, was bought from de Bryants at Beaufort by de Rhett family,
when my mammy was a little pickaninny. She not able to tell nothin' 'bout her 'speriences with
de Bryants, but she sho' recall a lot of things after she jine de Rhetts. She live with them
'til she was just turnin' twelve years old, then she come to Columbia as a slave of Master
John T. Rhett. He move here, as a refugee, in 1862. Master Rhett was not healthy 'nough to
go to war but some of his folks go.

"One of Master Rhett's brothers, who was too old to go to war, march 'way to fight Yankees
at Honey Hill. De Yankee fleet send an army in boats to cut de Charleston and Savannah Railroad,
and de Confederates meet them at Honey Hill, half way 'tween Beaufort and Savannah. In a bloody
battle dere de Confederates won. Master Rhett, of Beaufort was wounded dere, and his brother,
John, leave Columbia and go dere to see him while he was in bed, battlin' for life.

"My mammy never work in de field at Beaufort, nor after she come to Columbia. She was kep'
on duty in de big house and learned to sew and make garments, quilts, and things. She also
learn to read, write, and cipher, and she could sing many of de church songs them days. She
play with de white chillun dat come to see de Rhetts in Beaufort and in Columbia. She tell
me 'bout things in Beaufort, where de Rhetts live then.

"She say de Rhetts has been buckra since de time when Colonel William Rhett go out in his battle
ships to chase and kill pirates, in de days when Carolina was ruled by de King of England.
She say they own many big plantations in Beaufort County and raise big crops of rice and sea
island cotton. She say de sea island cotton was so costly that it was handpicked by slaves
and placed in hundred pounds sacks. Then it was shipped to France and de growers reap a rich
harvest.

"Mammy tell us chillun dat de Rhetts sho' was de 'big folks' of South Carolina, and I reckons
dat's so, 'cause de books, swords, guns, windlasses and things lak dat, in a room at de John
T. Rhett home, show what they has been doin' for several hundred years.

"Oh yes, you wants to know where 'bouts John T. Rhett live in Columbia? He live at de house
now number 1420 Washington Street, right 'cross de street from where de parsonage of the Washington
Street Methodist Church now stands. I go dere with Mammy, often, and play 'round de yard. Mammy
always work dere as long as she able to serve a-tall. She take sick and die in 1883.

"Master John T. Rhett was mayor of de city three times, in 1882, 1884 and in 1886. I knows
well, 'cause he see to it dat us chillun go to school, 'long 'bout then, and not a one of us
has been unable to read, write, and cipher since. He see dat we gits chances to become useful
citizens, and his very name is sweet to me since he died.

"You ask if I knows R. Goodwin Rhett of Charleston? I sho' does; I has talked with him and
he ask me many questions. He was born in Columbia but move to Charleston many years ago and,
lak the buckra dat he is, he climb to de top as de mayor of Charleston, big banker, and president
of de Chamber of Commerce of de United States. So you see, my mammy was lucky in livin' with
such a fine family.

"You asks if my man (husband) has come down from de Heyward family of de Combahee River slaves?
No. He come from de North and he say dere was Heywards up dere, both white and black. He got
that name in de North. He has been a carpenter, hired by de month, at de State Hospital for
many years, and we bought dis two-story home by de sweat of our brow. We lives, and has always
lived, as my mammy tell us to. And we git 'long pretty well by trustin' in God and doin' our best."

  Project #-1655
  Mrs. Chlotilde R. Martin
  Beaufort County

  Approx. 530 Words
  FOLKLORE

  FOLKLORE

  Stories from Ex-slaves
  Lucretia Heyward
  Ex-slave Age - 96

W'en gun fust shoot on Hilton Head Islandt, I been 22 year old. Muh Pa name Tony MacKnight
and he b'long to Mr. Stephen Elliott. My Ma name Venus MacKnight and she b'long to Mr. Joe
Eddings, who had uh plantation on Parri (Parris) Islandt. De overseer been Edward Blunt. He
been poor white trash, but he wuk haa'd and save he money and buy slave. He buy my Ma and bring
she to Beaufort to wuk in he house by de Baptist chu'ch. I been born den. I hab seven brudder
name Jacob, Tony, Robert, Moses--I can't 'member de odders, it been so long ago. I hab one
sister Eliza--she die de odder day.

W'en I been little gal, I wuk in de house. Wuk all day. I polish knife and fork, mek bed, sweep
floor, nebber hab time for play game. W'en I git bigger, dey send me to school to Miss Crocker
to learn to be seamstruss.

W'en I small, I sleep on floor in Miss Blunt room. I eat food left ober from table. Dey nebber
learn me to read and write. I ain't hab time for sech t'ing. I go to chu'ch in white Baptis'
chu'ch. Nigger hab for sit up stair, white folks sit down stair. If nigger git sick, dey send
for doctor to 'tend um. Mr. Blunt nebber lick me, but Miss Blunt cut my back w'en I don't do
to suit her. Nigger git back cut w'en dey don't do wuk or w'en dey fight. Dey hab uh jail in
town, run by Mr. McGraw. If nigger be too bad, run street and t'ing, he git in jail and Mr.
McGraw lick um. I been lock in jail one time. Dey hang me up by wrist and beat me twenty-five
lick wid uh cowhide. I forgit w'at I don't to git dat.

W'en Yankee been come de Blunts leab Beaufort, and I walk out house and go back to Parri Islandt.
De Yankee tell we to go en Buckra corn house and git w'at we want for eat. Den I come back
to Beaufort and go to wuk in cotton house (gin.) De Yankee pay we for wuk and I tek my money
and buy twenty acre ob land on Parri Islandt. I ain't had dat land now 'cause de Government
tek em for he self and mek me move. (This was when the Government bought Parris Island for
a naval station.)

I been hab two husband. De fust name Sephus Brown. How I 'member w'en he die, it been de year
ob de ninety-tree storm. My odder husband been Cupid Heyward--he daid (dead) too.

I hear tell ob de Ku Klux, but I nebber shum (see them). I don't know nuting 'bout no night rider.

See um sell slabe? I see um. Dey put um on banjo table and sell um just lak chicken. Nigger
ain't no more den chicken and animal, enty? (isn't it so?)

Abraham Lincoln? Sho' I 'members him. He de one w'at gib us freedom, enty? He come to Beaufort.
He come 'fo de war. He sho been one fine man. He come to Beaufort on uh ship and go all 'round
here, but I nebber shum.

Jefferson Davis? No I nebber hear ob him. Booker T. Washington. I 'members him. I hear him
mek speech in Beaufort. It been uh beautiful speech. Dat been one smaa't colored man.

W'at I t'ink 'bout slabery? Huh--nigger git back cut in slabery time, enty?

Does I hate Mr. Blunt? No, I ain't hate um. He poor white trash but he daid now. He hab he
self to look out for, enty? He wuk, he sabe he money for buy slabe and land. He git some slabe,
but he nebber git any land--de war cum. Given as a bridal present to 'Miss Susan Alston by
her father, Mr. Duncan Alston of Midway Plantation Waccamaw, Aunt Mariah has for the last fifty
years lived much in the past when 'I wuz raise on the cream of the earth' and her head is just
a little higher and her backbone just a little stiffer than that of the average colored person
because of pride--family pride--in her people--her white people. And as one can readily see
from her testimony, her chief cause for her pardonable snobbery seems to be that her Massa
was the last man to surrender and "swear gainst his swear."

Her sons, one of whom is a preacher in the Methodist Conference and 'one a zorter--a locust'
and her youngest son John (who got all the credrick) have built her a comfortable house (painted
a bilious yaller) which she keeps clean and sweet with flowers in the front yard--two treasured
plants having been sent by her brother (born after mancipations) clean from Pittsburgh.

The fact that she was raised by aristocrats shows plainly in her dealing with both races and
she is a leader in church activities and her opinion valued when a vote is taken about school
matters.

Being the oldest 'communion steward' she is affectionately spoken of as 'THE MOTHER OF HEAVEN'S
GATE'--the Methodist church founded in Murrells Inlet community by colored leaders shortly
after Mancipation.

"Aunt Mariah, you home?"

"Missus, what you brought me?"

"------------

"I too thank you."

(Soon she began to reminisce)

"You could hear 'em over there slamming and banging. The Yankee tear up the Dr. Flagg house
but they didn't come Sunnyside. Bright day too! Old man Thomas Stuart lead 'em to Hermitage.
Had team they take from Mr. Betts and team they take from Dr. Arthur to Woodland. Free everywhere
else and we wasn't free Sunnyside till June third or second. Sunday we got our freedom. Bright
day too. Our colored people fare just like the white; wearing, eating, drinking. I wuz raise
on the cream of earth.

"They wuz glad. Sign a contract for your boss you would work the same and get pay the end of
the year-and tend you when you sick all the same." (The same medical attention to be given
that was given before 'Freedom') "Big guns shooting! House jar to Sunnyside and one day water
shake out the glass! Miss Susan take her spyglass and stand behind one them big posses (posts)
and spy them big boats shooting. And boss say, 'Don't get in front of them posses-they might
shoot you!'

"Yankee come to Mrs. Belin and Parson Betts. And they tell Mrs. Belin, they want her to know
no more slave holding and she thank 'em and she say, HE people wuz always free! Grandma Harriet,
(Harriet Mortor wuz her title but that time they always gone by they Master title). Joe Heywood
wuz Joe Belin--he was Parson Belin man--he take the Heywood title after mancipation. Poinsette
(Uncle Fred) ALWAYS carry that title. That day, all the right hand servant always take they
Massa title. When the big gun shooting, old people in the yard, 'Tank God! Massa, HE COMING!'
(Referring to 'Freedom') 'HE COMING!' (Guns gone just like thunders roll now!) Chillun say,
"What coming? What coming? What coming, Grandma?"

'You all will know! You all will know!'

"Massa live 'Wee ha kum' for years. We are fifty-five (55) chillun. Mary Rutledge Allston and
I one year chillun." (She and Mary R. Allston born same year.) "My missus have four chillun--Mary
Rutledge, Susan Bethune, Marsa Pink and Marse Fanuel. (Benjamine Nathaniel!)

"Four years of the war been hold prayer-meeting." (Praying for 'freedom'). Lock me up in house.
Me, I been PREsent to Miss Minna--'Miss Mary! We, us lock up! My brother and I listen! (Two
brother mancipation chillun. Smart Robert Brockington and Harrison Franklin Brockington in
Pittsburgh. I nuss (nurse) him--jess like you hold that book.) Old people used to go to Richmond
Hill, Laurel Hill and Wachesaw have these little prayer-meeting. All bout in people house.
Hold the four year of the war. Great many time the chicken crow for day. Hear the key. We say
'Yeddy!' Change clothes. Gone on in the house. Get that eight, seven o'clock breakfast.'

"Parson Glennie (Rector All Saints, Waverly lived at Rectory there and did wonderful work teaching
and preaching to slaves as well as whites--preaching at beautiful St. Mary's chapel, built
by Plowden Weston at Hagley for the slaves of materials from England--baptismal font from this
chapel now in Camden Episcopal church and stained glass also removed before chapel burned some
few years ago. At this period--prior to mancipation Waccamaw slaves were usually educated in
the faith of their masters--the Episcopal.) Parson Glennie come once a month to Sunnyside.
Parson Glennie read, sing, pray. Tell us obey Miss Minna. (I wuz little highest.) Two of us
55 chillun! We'd fight. She knock me. I knock back! Wouldn't take a knock! She say, 'I tell
Parson Glennie! Lord won't bless you! You bad.' I say, 'You knock me, I knock you!'

"Have a play-house. Charlie buy from Mott. Used to summer it at Magnolia. Row from Bull Creek
once a month to Chapel. (10 miles or more) Put them All Saints eleven o'clock service. Four
best men his rowsmen. Fuss (first) year war we tuh Bull Creek. Nobody go (to All Saints) but
Missus and Massa and the four rowsmen.

"Flat going from Midway to Cheraw. Best rice on flat. (Couldn't grind corn) Kill chicken. Gone
to protect from Yankees--to hide! When they come (to Cheraw). Sherman coming from MONDAY till
SATDY! Come on RAIL! Said 'twas a shocking sight! When Sherman army enter Cheraw, town full
of sojers. Take way from white people and give horses colored people! Didn't kill none the
horses. (On Sunnyside on Waccamaw) Cheraw Yankee kill horses! (Indeed--YES! It is history in
Marlboro, near Cheraw they were killed and thrown in the wells to pollute the water.)"

"Mr. Charley horse, couldn't nobody ride but him! Father-in-law (Mr. Duncan to Midway) had
a pair of grey--BUCK and SMILER. Driver, Tom Carr. Come in carriage every month to Sunnyside.
Get the family. Go and spend ten days--Midway! Family wuz MYSELF, MISS MINNA, and the three
and the Massa and Miss Susan. Mary Huger one my Missus sister. One marry a Huger to Charleston.

"Major Charles say he'd die in Sunnyside yard fore he'd go there (Georgetown) and take off
his hat and 'swear gainst my swear.' He'd die in Sunnyside yard. My Massa, Major Charles Alston,
was the last one to gone to Georgetown and gone under that flag! He was Charles Jr., but after
Confederick war he was Major Charles! Major Charles the last man off Waccamaw gone under the
flag! At Georgetown. Went down in row-boat. My fadder gone and tell old man Tom Nesbitt to
have his boat and four of his best mens. Got to go off a piece! Pa gone. Have boat ready. Ma
got up. Cook a traveling lunch for 'em. Fore day! Blue uniform. Yellow streak down side--just
like this streak in my dress. Yellow bar!" (Most of 'em had to rob dead yankees or go naked)
"LAST GENTLEMAN GONE UNDER THE FLAG!

"Walking up and down the piazza! Say, Can I go to town and swear gainst my slave?" Can I? Up
and down!

"I hear bout them slave try to run way. Aunt Tella Kinloch eye shot out. Marsh (baby) cry!
Mother say take her apron and stuff the child mouth. Blockade (patrollers) wuz hiding. Shot
in range of that sound. Row! Row! Row! Put everything in jail! All in jail! Mr. McCuskey tell
us! He wuz one of the men help lynch. I got married 1873. They wuz talking bout the time (war)
"Mr. McCuskey told us Nemo Ralston was one. Say he never see a fatter man. Fat in there in
shield! Like a fattening hog! (They running way from Oregon--Dr. McGill place). Say they put
four horses to him--one to every limb. Stretch 'em. And cut horses and each horse carry a piece!
Mr. McCuskey was one help lynch Nemo.

"Uncle William Heywood didn't birth till after mancipation. Not a thing to do with slavery
time! But I know when the big gun shooting to free me! Yankee come and free Waccamaw! No slave
hold. Whole neck free but us! Last people free on 'Neck.' MY MAJOR last one to went under flag
to Georgetown! Old man Moses Gibson and Peter Brockington build Sunnyside kitchen.

"I wuz birth November 5th, 1855. Mr. Buck say, 'Aunt Mariah, know your birth?'

"'Yes, sir!'

"'Aunt Mariah, you too old to work! You born 1800, go on home raise your chicken!'"

  Aunt Mariah Heywood
  Age--82
  Murrells Inlet, S.C.

  Project 1885-1
  FOLK LORE
  Spartanburg, S.C.
  May 10, 1937

  Edited by:
  Elmer Turnage

  SLAVE STORIES

Living with his married daughter is an old negro slave by the name of Jerry Hill. He was born
Jan. 12, 1852. He and his mother were owned by Jim Fernandes who had a plantation between Union
and Jonesville, S.C. His father was a slave owned by another white man on an adjoining plantation.
"Uncle" Jerry was nine years old when the war began, and thirteen when he was set free. He
was born near Rocky Creek which ran into Fairforest Creek. He was always treated kindly by
his master. He was taught to plow and work on the farm, which he did regularly; though he always
took his time and would not let anybody hurry him. He said that he had always taken his time
to do his farm work, so got along fine with all for whom he worked. He says that he always
had plenty to eat; yet most of the "niggers" had to eat Ash-bread. This is corn-bread which
is cooked in hot ashes raked from the fireplace. Once a week he was given biscuits, though
this was a luxury to colored folks. He said, that when a slave had to have a whipping, he was
taken to a whipping post in Jonesville. A bull-whip was used for the punishment and it brought
the blood from the bare back of the man or woman being whipped. One day a grown slave was given
150 lashes with the bull-whip, for teaching the young boys to gamble. He saw this punishment
administered. He had climbed a tree where he could get a better view. He said that several
slaves were being whipped that day for various things, and there were several men standing
around watching the whipping. He said that he was laughing at the victim, when some by-stander
looked up and saw him; "that boy needs 150 lashes, too," he said. "He is laughing at the punishment
being given." So his master told the by-stander to get the boy and give him the lashing if
he thought he needed it. When he was led up to the whipping post, some man there shook his
head at the by-stander; so the boy did not get whipped. Jerry says that the sister of Jim Fernandas
used to carry a bull-whip around her neck when she walked out on the farm, and would apply
it herself to any slave she thought needed it.

"When the Yankee soldiers came," he said, "my master had to hide out for awhile, as he had
gotten into some trouble with them at Union. They would search the house occasionaly and then
go into the woods looking for him. One day the soldiers caught him down on the branch and killed
him. As the Yankee soldiers would come to the plantation, they would leave their worn-out horses
and take our good ones. They also stole meat, hams, sugar etc.; but they were pretty quiet
most of the time. One of our neighbors caught a Yankee stealing his horse and killed him right
there. His name was Bill Isom. All his family is now dead. The soldiers would slip around and
steal a good horse and ride it off. We would never see that horse again. After we were told
by my master that we were now free and could go to work whereever we chose, my mother hired
me out to a man and I stayed with him two years. It was pretty hard to make a living after
we were free, but I worked hard and always got on."

  =Source:= Jerry Hill, 265 Highland St., Spartanburg, S.C. Interviewed
          by: F.S. DuPre, Spartanburg Office, Dist. 4.

  Project #-1655
  Martha S. Pinckney
  Charleston, S.C.

  FOLKLORE

  JANE HOLLINS

  AGE 97

Jane was found in the sunshine on her piazza, busily occupied, as she always would be. With
her full cotton skirt she brushed off the hard-wood bench, and asked the writer to have a seat;
this being declined, she said,

"Then I'll sit, because I'm old and get tired.

"Now what you want with old Jane? From old Mausa time you can get my age--you can 'pute it
up. (compute) I was 95 June before this last June gone. I got a son 70 what lives in the country--he
pay my rent. I dunno how many children I had; my son July Ladson lives here with me--he gone
out now. One son is gone off somewhere in the world; he's married and has a family--I dunno
where he is--somewhere in the world!"--spreading, out her arms.

"I come from Eutawville and Belvidere and Belmont. My Master?--Charles Sinkler, Belvidere Plantation,
(a few miles from Eutawville) Mausa went to Eutaw for Miss--I remember all two place, Belvidere
and Eutaw. We live at Belvidere. My master house been beautiful--'e dey yet! (in her deep feeling
and excitement she lapsed into Gullah). That was the plantation where we lived--and, the beautiful
steps went up at the back to the 'pantry and to the side was the smoke house', she jumped up
and illustrated--'the smoke come up from here, and the meat was hangin' all here', she showed
vital interest in everything she told, and was absorbed in her subject, as when we relate experiences
which we have loved.

"You know what 'Daily Gift'?--I was Daily Gift--Mausa give me to Miss Margaret, his daughter,
when she was married to Mr. Gaillard--I give to Miss Margaret--=I never was sold=." She repeated
twice, and was very proud of it that she was a "Free Gift". "I never was sold, =and my Mama
never was sold=." (Faithful servants remained for generations in one family, inherited and
willed like other valued property)

"What I do?--I milk cows", and she illustrated. "I do outside work wid de hoe--plant corn,
potato, peas, rice!" She beamed with pride and pleasure as she told of each thing she could
do--"Help fix the hogs, you know, make lard and cracklings to put in bread. When dinner time
they blow the big conk and everybody come for dinner. I not the cook. The cook, Delia, stout
round, (illustrated) she do cook! We jus' make out now with dese vittles.

"We went to church all de time--an' I sing an' shout in de Heavenly land! De church been on
de plantation. Mausa had a white minister for us. His name Mr. Quinbey. I believe in God. Heaven
a restin' place--there we is all one spirit--the spirit go about jus' how we go about here."

"Do they come back? Did you ever see one?" she was asked.

"I hear 'bout dat," she frowned, "but I never see um. My mama, Eve, died after freedom. My
mama gone--she never come back--my children never come back to me any time. I dont know how
many of my children dead. My daughters, dey lookin' to themselves."

"I come to Charleston long after Freedom. I remember all two place--Belvidere and Eutawville.
Belmont I cant forget--de name Gaillard I cant forget, cause I was 'Free Gift.' Dese time aint
like de times way back dere."

"I been a mid-wife here 60 years. My name writ right down dere and you can find it. No longer
than this mornin' I burn up some papers. I aint have any remembrance any more." Here she went
in to the house and got some sheets of paper.--"I want to be truthful to you, dese was my nursery
book."

"I'm too old to sing.--I did know spirituals but cant remember them--I tell you dese things,
then they go out of my remembering."

