Our late Member, however, was unable to devote to the Constituency the time and attention it
required. Moreover, I may mention in strict confidence, that his conduct over the Billsbury
Main Drainage Scheme alienated a considerable number of his supporters, and the consequence
was that at the last election Sir THOMAS CHUBSON, the Liberal Candidate and present Member
for Billsbury, was elected by a majority of 279. Since then, however, the Party has rallied,
the divisions in our ranks have been healed, the registrations have been very much in our favour,
and there is no reason to doubt that, as soon as Billsbury has the chance, she will return
to her ancient allegiance. I shall be in London the day after to-morrow (Thursday, March 6),
and shall do myself the honour of calling upon you. Kindly let me know where and when I can
see you. I shall be glad to afford you any further information.

    Yours faithfully, JAMES TOLLAND,

To RICHARD B. PATTLE, Esq., President Billsbury Conservative Association. Dr. Johnson Buildings,
Temple, E.C.

I dashed off at once to the Central Association. They urged me to accept, and told me that
even if I failed, which they said was extremely unlikely, my fight would give me "an irresistible
claim on the Party." Afterwards saw VULLIAMY, the Member for one of the Pinkshire Divisions.
He said "Take it? Of course you must. Ridiculous to hesitate. A youngster like you, who only
left College four years ago, ought to be proud of the chance. If you're beaten you'll have
a claim on the Party, and mind you don't let 'em forget it. Curse them, they never think of
a man's valuable services if he doesn't keep on reminding them himself;" and then he drivelled
on for a quarter of an hour about all he'd done for the Party, and how "the shabby beggars"
had refused his nephew the Morterton Recordership. It seems the other side manage their business
much better. Next I called on Uncle HENRY in the City. He said he'd stick to his promise of
paying half my expenses, but wouldn't help me to nurse the place. However, I daresay that won't
cost much. Eventually wrote to Old TOLLAND, and asked him to call at my Chambers on Thursday
at 3 o'clock. Then went home and told my mother. She said, "My darling boy, I knew you would
be distinguished. I knew it all along. If your dear father had only lived, he would have been
a proud man to-day. Now, mind you have that horrid grating removed from the Ladies' Gallery."
And with that she kissed me and rang for cook to tell her the news. I sloped.

On Thursday Old TOLLAND called. It seems he's an Alderman, and I only addressed him as plain
Esquire. He wanted to know, What were my views on the Labour Question? Was I an Eight Hours'
man? How about Vaccination and Woman's Suffrage? and all kinds of other rubbish. I had to beat
about a good deal, and answer generally, but at last I consented to address the Council, and
to-morrow was fixed as the day. If accepted, I shall have to come before a Mass Meeting, and
go through it all again. It all seems rather roundabout, but I suppose it's the usual way.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RIGHTS OF COUNSEL.

(BY A CLIENT.)

  Oh, what are the "rights" of the Q.C.?
  The point of the question but few see.
        Those rights are to do
        What suits him, if not you!
  Faith! that's the whole business in nuce!

       *       *       *       *       *

JOKIN'S LATEST.--"The Surplus will be anything but a dry subject this year, as it is owing
to a steady or (probably) unsteady consumption of Drink!" Wants to know about the Boy Messengers?
Pack in full cry; RAIKES pelted with newspapers, assailed with over-weighted letters; late
at night CAMERON comes up quite fresh, desiring to "call attention to the position taken up
by the POSTMASTER-GENERAL with regard to the Electric Call and Boy Messenger System," just
as if he had at the moment made the discovery.

In course of lecture CAMERON produces sort of pocket-pistol; explains it's the thing you work
the electric call with. You press a button here, and up comes a tumbler of milk and soda; another
button, and you have a sausage and a hot potato; a third, and your boots are suddenly pulled
off by an unseen agency; a fourth, and you find yourself seated in a hansom cab, with eighteenpence
pressed into your hand to pay your fare withal; a fifth, and you're awakened at four o'clock
in the morning with an apology. Something, you learn, went wrong with the machine, and it was
the gentleman on the next floor who ought to have been called at this hour.

GANE, Q.C., with hands folded on knees, sat entranced, listening to this interesting narrative,
and watching the illustrations rapidly produced by CAMERON, as he touched the various buttons.

"Wonderful!" cried GANE, Q.C. "Never knew anything like it since I read Arabian Nights."

"What's RAIKES' loss is our GANE," says WILFRID LAWSON.

Must think this over during the Recess.

For awhile RAIKES had peace; quite forgotten whilst House, falling into GANE's attitude, listened
to CAMERON's fairy tale.

"It's only postponed, TOBY," he said, wearily, CAMERON (having accidentally touched the wrong
button) being promptly carried off to bed in the middle of a sentence; "they'll be at me again
to-morrow, and will begin once more, like giants refreshed, when they come back from the holidays.
It's an old story; the House of Commons must always have its whipping-boy. Don't know whether
you've sat long enough for Barks to remember AYRTON? A dead set was made against him, and he
was not only driven out of office, but forth from public life. It's generally the HOME SECRETARY
who is fastened on. There was WALPOLE, chronically reduced to tears. BRUCE was chivied by the
cabmen, and had his hat blocked by the publicans. The blameless HARCOURT didn't go scot free
whilst he was at the Home Office. MATTHEWS has had a long run, with the hounds after him. Now
they've turned aside from him, and are yelping after me. It's very well for MATTHEWS, but a
little worrying for me. Of course I don't claim to be perfect. As HARCOURT once admitted of
himself, I'm almost human, I try to do my duty, and protect the interests of Department committed
to my charge. They come in touch with all classes, and naturally there is friction. Just now
the howling is persistent, and, I fancy, organised. Perhaps it'll fall away by-and-by. In the
meanwhile, it's rather wearing, so pitilessly monotonous. As you said the other day, a new
constitutional maxim has been established. Once OLD MORALITY used to write in his copybook,
'The QUEEN can Do no Wrong.' Now he may add this other, 'The POSTMASTER-GENERAL Does Nothing
Right.'" Business done.--Miscellaneous.

Tuesday Afternoon.--Winding up business before holiday; rather a scramble at the end. OLD MORALITY,
as usual, piled up heap of work to be got through. "Quite easy, you know," he said. "Tithes
Bill, Electoral Disabilities Removal Bill, Savings Bank Bill, take them in your stride. What
does the poet say? Line upon Line; Little by Little; Here to-day and gone To-morrow. Those
are the sound economical principles that should guide a man through life."

At one time seemed that whilst we were certainly here to-day, we wouldn't be gone till to-morrow.
Tithe Bill in last stage took a lot of fighting over. House wouldn't have Electoral Disabilities
Removal Bill or the Savings Bank Bill at any price.

"Then I'll move the adjournment," paid OLD MORALITY, in despair.

"Not till you've heard my speech," said Dr. CLARK; pulled out manuscript from breast coat-pocket,
began descanting on the under-pay of Civil Servants in Scotland, whilst TYSSEN AMHERST folded
his tent like the Arab, and as silently stole away. Example followed generally by Members in
all parts of the House. CLARK thoroughly enjoying himself, composedly went on to end of speech,
and then adjournment. SPEAKER "kept in" till Thursday to take part in ceremony of Royal Commission.
Rest off, and won't be back till Monday, 6th of April.

Business done.--Wound up for Easter Holidays.

       *       *       *       *       *

CRITICISING THE CALENDAR.

SIR,--The suggestion of your Correspondent "EASTER EGG," who wishes Easter to be a fixed festival,
always coming on April 20, is excellent. At present, Easter-tide, like the other tide, depends
on the moon. What a humiliating confession! Why should we any longer consent to be the slaves
of the (so-called) Science of Astronomy?

    Yours, REFORMING SPIRIT.

SIR,--What's all this fuss about Easter being too early this year? It isn't half early enough.
It ought to have come last Christmas, and Whitsuntide the same, and then we should have polished
off three public holiday seasons--public nuisances, I call them,--at once.

    Yours, gloomily, TRUE PHILANTHROPIST.

SIR,--I have just been horrified to hear that one of my boys now at home from school remains
with us for a three weeks' vacation! The early date of Easter is the paltry excuse offered
by his Headmaster for this infliction. Anybody can see through such a flimsy pretext. His brother
is to have his holiday four weeks later. The result is that the boys will see nothing of each
other during their holidays, while their parents will see a great deal too much. How can brotherly
affection--I say nothing of fatherly affection,--that priceless blessing, which I flatter myself
I always conspicuously display--be expected to continue under these depressing conditions?

    Yours, exasperatedly, FOND PARENT.

SIR,--As peeple are riting lettres to you about the Easter holy-days, I should like you to
put in what old BOREHAM--he's our Principul--has been doing. We all think it a thundring shame.
He kept us grinding away right through Good Friday, Easter Monday, and means us to go on several
weeks afterwards! The result was we had about half a Hot Cross-Bun each! Old BOREHAM akshally
fixed Easter Monday for going over all the Latin irreglur verbs. Pleese would you say something
in your valyble collums about old BOREHAM, and oblige

    Yours, obedjiently, SMITH (Tertius), Rodchester.