When Mr. Toombs was once asked by an Englishman, where were the files of the State Department,
he answered that "He carried the archives in his hat." When he resigned the position of Secretary
of State, Hon. Robert M. T. Hunter of Virginia was appointed in his stead. General William
M. Browne had been Assistant Secretary under Mr. Toombs. He was an Englishman, who came to
this country during Buchanan's administration and edited a Democratic paper in Washington.
When General Toombs joined the Army his staff was made up as follows; D. M. DuBose, Adjutant
General; R. J. Moses, Commissary General; W. F. Alexander, Quartermaster Major; DeRosset Lamar,
Aid-de-camp.

General Toombs' entry into the field, just after the first battle of Manassas, found the army
of the Confederacy flushed with victory, but badly scattered after the first serious engagement
of the war. General Johnston had declared that even after the decisive advantage at Bull Run,
pursuit was not to be thought of, for his troops were almost as much disorganized by victory
as the Federals by their defeat. Many soldiers, supposing the war was over, had actually gone
home. "Our men," said General Johnston, "had in a larger degree the instincts of personal liberty
than those of the North, and it was found very difficult to subordinate their personal wills
to the needs of military discipline."

The battle of Manassas had a powerful effect upon the Northern mind. The Lincoln Cabinet was
seized with fear for the safety of Washington. New troops were summoned to that city, and the
materials for a magnificent army were placed in the hands of General McClellan, who had succeeded
McDowell, the luckless victim of Manassas. More than one hundred thousand men were now massed
in front of Washington, while Joseph E. Johnston, with fifty-four thousand, advanced his outposts
to Centreville, and at Munson's Hill Toombs' brigade was in sight of the national capital.
His troops could easily watch the workmen building one of the wings of the Capitol, and the
victorious Confederates, with prestige in their ranks, were actually flaunting their flag in
the face of Mr. Lincoln. This movement, we are told by good generals, was of no military value,
but it kept the Northern administration in a white heat. It confused the Union commanders by
crossing their counsels with popular clamor and political pressure, and it crippled McClellan
when he finally moved down the Chesapeake to the peninsula, by detaining a large part of his
force to pacify the authorities in Washington.

When McClellan and Mr. Lincoln were disputing over their change of base, the military situation
was suddenly shifted by the evacuation of Manassas by the Confederate army, and its retirement
first behind the Rappahannock, then along the Rapidan. Johnston, it seems, wanted to be nearer
his base, and on the 8th of March skillfully managed his withdrawal, so that the enemy had
no idea of his movements. General Toombs' brigade started in retreat from Centreville. He did
not relish this movement. He writes home from Culpepper:

      This has been a sad and destructive business. We were
      ordered to send off all our heavy baggage, but so badly did
      they manage that none of it was sent back, and every
      particle of that baggage, blankets, and every imaginable
      useful article, was burned up to prevent its falling into
      the hands of the enemy. My brigade must have lost half a
      million of property and all the rest were in the same
      condition. Millions of stores with guns and ammunition were
      destroyed. Never was any business worse managed. The enemy
      had no more idea of attacking us in Centreville than they
      had of attacking the Peaks of Otter. Of course, when we
      retreated, they sent marauding parties in our trail to
      watch our retreat and take possession of the country, and
      now the whole of the beautiful Counties of Loudon,
      Fauquier, Prince William, Fairfax, and the Lord only knows
      how many more, are in the possession of the enemy. It was a
      sad, distressing sight, all the way along, and one that
      frequently drew tears from my eyes. I do not know what it
      means, but I would rather have fought ten battles than thus
      to have abandoned these poor people. We have got to fight
      somewhere, and if I had my way, I would fight them on the
      first inch of our soil they invaded, and never cease to
      fight them as long as I could rally men to defend their
      homes. The great body of the army is now in the
      neighborhood, and I suppose we shall abandon these people
      and retreat back toward Richmond.... My command is in
      excellent condition. A few broke down on the way, but I
      managed to have them taken care of there and lost none of
      them on the march.

One of the great features of General Toombs' control of his brigade was the excellent care
he took of his men. He never allowed them to be imposed upon by the officers or by other commands.

This letter betrays the impatience of General Toombs over any mismanagement. He was the soul
of business, and as the transportation facilities at Manassas were meager, he chafed under
the heavy loss to which his brigade was subjected in this retreat. With impetuous ardor he
calls for resistance, not retreat. He did not approve of the "Fabian policy" of Joseph E. Johnston.
As General Longstreet afterward remarked, "Toombs chafed at the delays of the commanders in
their preparations for battle. His general idea was that the troops went out to fight, and
he thought that they should be allowed to go at it at once." Near Orange Court House, he wrote
to his wife on the 19th of March, 1862, "I know not what is to become of this country. Davis'
incompetency is more apparent as our danger increases. Our only hope is Providence."

In January, 1862, the General Assembly of Georgia elected Robert Toombs a member of the Confederate
States Senate. Benjamin H. Hill was to be his colleague. But General Toombs had a different
conception of his duty. He realized that he had been prominent in shaping the events that had
led to the Civil War, and he did not shirk the sharpest responsibility. He felt that his duty
was in the field. He had condemned the rush for civil offices and what he called "bombproof
positions," and he wished at least to lead the way to active duty by remaining with his army.

Two months later an effort was made by some of his friends to have him appointed Secretary
of War. This would have brought him in close contact with the army, which he was anxious to
serve. The parties behind this movement believed that the great abilities of Mr. Toombs should
not be hidden behind the command of a brigade. He would have made an ideal war minister. His
genius for details and his ability to manage affairs and plan campaigns would have overmatched
Edwin M. Stanton. But Mr. Toombs promptly cut off this movement in his behalf.

On 22d March, 1862, he wrote to his wife from Orange Court House, Va.:

      I thought I had been very explicit on that point. I would
      not be Mr. Davis' chief clerk. His Secretary of War can
      never be anything else. I told my friends in Richmond to
      spare me the necessity of declining if they found it in
      contemplation. I have not heard that they had any occasion
      to interfere.... So far as I am concerned, Mr. Davis will
      never give me a chance for personal distinction. He thinks
      I pant for it, poor fool. I want nothing but the defeat of
      the public enemy and to retire with you for the balance of
      my life in peace and quiet in any decent corner of a free
      country. It may be his injustice will drive me from the
      army, but I shall not quit it until after a great victory,
      in which I shall have the opportunity of doing something
      for the country. The day after such an event I shall
      retire, if I live through it. I have grievances enough now
      to quit, but I shall bide my time. I get along very well
      with the army. I have not seen Johnston but once; he was
      polite and clever. George W. Smith I see every day. He is a
      first-rate gentleman and a good officer. I hear from
      Stephens constantly, but from nobody else in Richmond....
      You say you pray for me daily. I need it. Put it in your
      prayers that if it be the will of God that I shall fall, a
      sacrifice in this great conflict, that I may meet it as
      becomes a gentleman.

An instance of General Toombs' impatience under red-tape rules may be recalled. A member of
his brigade was taken ill, and he secured for him entrance into the hospital of Richmond. The
hospital was crowded; regulations were stringent, and under some technical ruling his sick
soldier was shipped back to his brigade. Toombs was fired with indignation. He proceeded to
sift the affair to the bottom, and was told that General Johnston had fixed the rules. This
did not deter him. Riding up to the commander's tent and securing admission, he proceeded to
upbraid the general as only Toombs could do. When he returned to his headquarters he narrated
the circumstance to Dr. Henry H. Steiner, his brigade surgeon and lifelong friend. Dr. Steiner,
who had been a surgeon in the regular army, and had served in the Mexican war, was a better
tactical officer than Toombs. He was himself fearless and upright, but full of tact and discretion.
"General," said Dr. Steiner, "you have been too rash; you will be arrested." Toombs replied
that he thought so, too. He held himself in anticipation for two or three days, but he was
not disturbed. When he was finally summoned to General Johnston's tent, it was to consult over
a plan of movement, and it was noticed that Toombs was the only brigadier in counsel. General
Johnston subsequently remarked that Toombs was the biggest brained man in the Confederacy.
The boldness and clearness of the impetuous Georgian had captured the grim hero of Manassas,
who forgave the affront in the face of the overmastering mind of the man.

General McClellan reached Fortress Monroe, April 2, 1862, and commenced his march up the peninsula.
The country is low and flat, and the season was unusually wet and dismal. The objective point
was Richmond, seventy-five miles away, and the first obstruction met by the Federal army was
at Yorktown. The defense adopted by General Magruder was a series of dams extending along the
Warwick River, which stretched across the peninsula from the York to the James River, a distance
of thirteen miles. The fords along the Warwick had been destroyed by dams defended by redoubts,
and the invader and defender were stationed in dense swamps. At dam No. 1 Toombs' troops were
often under fire. They fought with spirit. Each detachment was on duty defending the dam forty-eight
hours, and between long exposure in the trenches, the frequent alarms, and sharp sorties, the
service was very exhausting. It was only possible to change troops at night. On the 16th of
April Toombs writes:

      One of my regiments, the 17th Georgia, had a skirmish day
      before yesterday. They acted splendidly, charging the
      Yankees, and driving them from the rifle-pits, killing,
      wounding, and taking prisoners over one hundred of the
      enemy. I lost but two killed and a few wounded.

At the siege of Yorktown in the early part of May, 1862, General Toombs commanded a division
consisting of his own and Semmes' brigades. He had 2357 men in his own and 2342 in Semmes'
brigade, making about 4700 troops in line. During this siege General Magruder reports that
General Toombs supported Cobb's brigade, and promptly and energetically led the remainder of
his command under fire, arriving just before the enemy ceased their attack, and in time to
share its danger. General Magruder had only 11,000 men under him in the peninsula, and General
Huger but 8000, to oppose McClellan's march with 80,000. Johnston and Lee both pronounced the
peninsula untenable, and on the 4th of May Yorktown was evacuated.

After the retreat from the peninsula, General Johnston concentrated his entire army behind
the Chickahominy River, sixteen miles from Richmond. On the 12th of May General Toombs writes
home that his command near the Chickahominy was "resting easily after a disagreeable march
from Yorktown. I hear that there is great consternation in Richmond.... The loss of New Orleans
gives us a terrible blow, and, followed by Norfolk, makes it necessary for us to strike a decisive
blow somewhere." On 19th of May, 1862, he writes home from the camp near Richmond:

      We seem to have come up here to defend this city. You ask
      me my opinion of the present state of the country. It is
      bad enough. The utter incompetency of Mr. Davis and his
      West Point generals have brought us to the verge of ruin.
      If McClellan is unwise enough to fight us here, we shall
      whip and drive him out of Virginia.... As to Richmond, it
      will never be taken while this army is here.

General Toombs' estimate of the army and of the futility of an attack from McClellan was justified
when, after the 26th of June, the Army of the Potomac, almost in sight of the spires of Richmond,
was forced to reel back, in the deadly clinch of a seven days' combat, to the James River.
The Confederate army changed its position from one of retreat to a brilliant and aggressive
policy, and the subtle tactics of Johnston gave way to the bold strokes of Lee. The South was
thrilled with victory.

General Toombs frequently referred to the incompetency of Mr. Davis. The letters which have
just been quoted were written to his wife, and were not made public then, but he did not hesitate
to express his opinion openly. Jefferson Davis and Mr. Toombs had some differences while the
former was Secretary of War under Franklin Pierce and Mr. Toombs was in the Senate. Mr. Toombs
believed that President Davis was too partial to West Point, at which school Mr. Davis had
been trained, and that in his management of the army he showed the tenacity of a martinet rather
than the breadth of a statesman.

In February, 1859, the Army Appropriation bill had come up before the United States Senate.
Mr. Toombs attacked, and Mr. Davis defended the whole system. Mr. Toombs contended that the
compensation of army officers was too great. It was more than the same talent could command
in any other walk of life. It was upon a wrong basis. "You take a boy of sixteen and send him
to West Point, and when he comes out you give him $1400 a year. In the course of a few years
you carry him up to $3000, $6000, or $8000. Take the general employment of the youths of the
country who are educated at the different colleges for all civil purposes. You may have the
highest amount of genius and intellect, and you get nothing like such average there. It will
take them many years to make that much money." Mr. Toombs declared that a brigadier general's
commission was higher than that of a United States Senator. "I think," said he, "it requires
as great qualifications to govern this country as it does to be a brigadier general." Officers
had increased far beyond the wants of the country. Members of Congress appoint cadets for the
different districts; "they are generally associated in some way, as brothers, sons, or cousins,
with the governing power." He thought a salary of $600 or $900 for the West Point graduates
enough. According to the way army commissions were valued in England, the commission of a lieutenant
who graduated at West Point could not be worth less than $50,000. The pay of a captain was
higher than that of a judge. That position required the highest ability and integrity, and
the average salary of a judge was but $2000, without traveling expenses. Mr. Toombs contended
that West Point men seldom reflected any opinions but those of the government which employed
them. They seldom sympathized with the people, and he wanted a government of the people. "You
take a boy to West Point," he said, "give him quarters, and fuel, and clothes, and maintain
him, and you say he has rendered service. When the citizens of this country send their sons
to college they pay their expenses or work their way through; but when a boy is carried to
West Point he is taken care of; a house is provided for him; clothes are provided for him;
instructors are provided for him, and that is called being in service. I lay down the proposition
that the true theory of wages, if you employ these people to keep the peace, is exactly the
same--a constable's pay--you ought to pay them what they can be had for."

Mr. Davis held that army officers were constantly tempted to resign by offers of higher pay.
It was the training of these men in the service, not for the service, it was their attachment
for the country which made them so valuable. It was better to instruct men for officers' places
and then appoint them, than to appoint them and then instruct them. He thought appointments
were free from partisan selection. A soldier's devotion was as broad as the continent. A West
Point cadet is a warrant officer; he goes there to serve the government as it may direct. It
directs him to stay there until he has sufficient elementary instruction to properly discharge
the duties of an officer.

The debate showed the views of the two men, and indicated the differences which, from points
of public policy, soon deepened into personal dislike. On the 30th of May, Toombs wrote from
the army, "Davis is polite and formal; so am I."

In the latter part of 1862 it was evident that the two armies must meet and contend for the
mastery in Virginia. The day before the seven days' fighting commenced, Dr. Steiner said to
General Toombs, his intimate friend: "General, I have a favor to ask of you. Keep your mind
unclouded during these important operations." Dr. Steiner knew that during the heat and excitement
of battle, temptation was great among soldiers to take ardent spirits, a practice that had
grown somewhat upon General Toombs during his service in the field, and which at times deprived
him of his best powers. "Why, doctor, I gladly promise," said the great Georgian. Nor did he,
during the week, take a glass of any sort of liquor.

General Toombs' brigade was the First Brigade, First Division, Army of Northern Virginia, and
during the campaign of the peninsula, was in Magruder's division. On June 15, 1862, Toombs
occupied the most exposed position, which was held for nine days. Magruder recommended relief
for his troops, which had been suffering from lack of rest and care. Just before the seven
days' fight Toombs' brigade was placed in D. R. Jones' division and Magruder commanded his
own, Jones', and McLaw's divisions, holding about 13,000 men. Toombs' brigade was composed
of the 1st, 15th, 17th, and 20th Georgia regiments.

On the 26th of June Toombs' brigade was posted upon the east of Garnett's House, on Golding's
farm, just in front of the enemy. Both sides threw up breastworks so near that neither could
advance its picket line. "Just before dark," says Dr. Steiner, "Mr. Toombs received orders
to charge the enemy, firing having been heard on the left. The position was a dangerous one.
A charge at that time of the evening was perilous. Just in front lay a deep gulch--Labor-in-Vain
Ravine--which was alive with the enemy, and the charge must be through an unprotected field
of wheat and clover. General Toombs was astonished at the order. His first instructions had
been to put himself near Garnett House, to hold his position and to take advantage of any retreat
of the enemy. He doubted the authenticity of the order, and sent word that he would not obey
unless in writing. Pretty soon written instructions were returned and General Toombs prepared
for what he believed to be a forlorn hope. He advanced seven companies of the 2d Georgia Regiment,
750 men, under Colonel B. M. Butt, toward the enemy in the face of a heavy front and flank
fire. Colonel Williams' regiment crossed the field at double-quick under a galling fire from
the opposite side of the ravine. Unshaken by fearful odds, they held their ground and replied
with spirit. The 15th Georgia Regiment, under Colonel McIntosh then entered the fight, and
this gallant officer was mortally wounded. The 17th Georgia charged on the left and the 20th
on the right. The engagement was a very bloody one. Over 200 of Toombs' men were lost and several
valuable officers were killed. The opposing troops were a part of General Hancock's command,
and the firing ceased only with the night. Next morning the enemy retreated, and Toombs' men
pressed forward and held their position. General Toombs was censured for this engagement, for
which, it seems, he was in no wise responsible.

On the 1st of July, about three o'clock in the afternoon, commenced one of the famous battles
of the war. McClellan's army had gotten away from its perilous position astride the Chickahominy,
and now found itself united and strongly intrenched on the heights of Malvern Hill. All hope
of destroying that army was gone, and it was evident that an engagement must ensue, with the
odds in favor of the Union army. It was in many respects like the battle of Gettysburg, except
that the Confederate forces were not handled with the precision and effectiveness of the historic
sorties against Cemetery Heights. The battlefield was in plain range of the enemy's gunboats,
and there was much surprise that General Lee should have sanctioned an engagement at that point.
General D. H. Hill misunderstood the signal for attack at Malvern Hill, and late in the afternoon
ordered the charge. Toombs' brigade had been marching and countermarching all day, and went
into action much thinned from the effects of the sharp fighting at Labor-in-Vain Ravine. There
was no concerted attack. The charge seems to have been made by brigades, even single regiments
being thrown forward. They advanced through a swamp, and the difficulties of the charge, owing
to a murderous fire which raked the plain from the hills, 600 yards away, cannot be exaggerated.
Toombs' brigade was one of the first to reach the plateau swept by fifty guns. It advanced
with Anderson's brigade, but obliqued to the left about half-way up the hill, and took position
near a fence, where the troops, suffering fearfully from the cool, deadly aim of the Federal
gunners, were ordered to lie down and secure some shelter from the cannon-shot. It was at this
time that General D. H. Hill rode up to General Toombs and ordered his brigade forward. Some
sharp words ensued between these officers, and the men moved forward handsomely to the brow
of the hill. At this time, however, the steady stream of fugitives pressing back from the charge,
broke the alignment of the brigade and separated the regiments. Colonel Butt's regiment went
forward with Kershaw's brigade. The whole Confederate charge was soon checked and the troops
fell back in disorder. Their loss was fully 5000 men, and the loss in Toombs' brigade was 219
men, making his losses in the two engagements over one-third of his entire number. Malvern
Hill was a blunder which was never repeated, but it was a disastrous one for the Georgia troops.

The subjoined correspondence will be understood in the light of the meeting of General D. H.
Hill and General Toombs near Malvern Hill during the progress of the charge of the Confederate
forces.

      HEADQUARTERS FIRST BRIGADE, FIRST DIVISION,
      In the Field, July 6, 1862.

      MAJOR GENERAL D. H. HILL.

      Sir: Military movements since Tuesday last have prevented
      an earlier reply to your conversation with me on the
      battlefield that evening. I understood you to say, among
      other things, that "Your (my) brigade would not fight";
      that you "always knew it would not fight"; that it
      "pretended to want to fight, but would not"; "Where were
      you when I was riding in front on my horse trying to rally
      your brigade?" I desire first to know whether I am correct
      in my understanding of your language, and if not, wherein I
      am mistaken.

      And secondly, to request of you such explanation of that
      language as you may choose to give.

                                      I am sir,
                                        Your obedient servant,
                                          ROBERT TOOMBS.

      July 6, 1862.

      General: Your note has just been received. My remarks
      were personal to yourself and not to your brigade. I did
      not in the slightest degree reflect on your men. What I
      said was in substance this: "You have been wanting to
      fight, and now that you have one, you have got out of it."
      There were witnesses to our conversation, and if my remarks
      were severer, I will let you know.

      It may be well to suggest to you that, as the commanding
      officer on the field, I have an official report to make
      which will not be modified by your note.

      It is notorious that you have a thousand times expressed
      your disgust that the commanding general did not permit you
      to fight. It is equally notorious that you retired from
      the field. These are the two facts of which I reminded you
      on Tuesday. I made no comment upon them, and if the simple
      truth has been offensive, the interpretation of it has been
      your own.

                                      Yours truly,
                                        D. H. HILL,
      BRIGADIER GENERAL TOOMBS.             Major General.

      HEADQUARTERS FIRST BRIGADE, FIRST DIVISION,
      July 6, 1862.

      GENERAL D. H. HILL.

      Sir: Your note of this date has just been received. It is
      scarcely necessary for me to say it is not satisfactory. It
      would be inappropriate to comment upon it properly in this
      note, and for that reason alone I waive it for the present.

      As to your remark that you were the commanding officer on
      the field on the 1st inst., I never before heard of it, nor
      do I now think so, but, however that fact may be, I am at a
      loss to know for what reason you state it unless it was to
      menace and intimidate me in the pursuit of proper
      satisfaction for the unprovoked insult you have cast upon
      me. If that was your object, this note will satisfy you
      that you have failed in your object. I now demand of you
      personal satisfaction for the insult you cast upon my
      command and myself on the battlefield on the 1st inst., and
      for the repetition and aggravation thereof in your note of
      this day. I refer you to my friend Colonel Benning for all
      necessary arrangements.

                                      Your obedient servant,
                                        ROBERT TOOMBS.

      CAMP NEAR RICHMOND, VA.,
      July 12, 1862.

      General: Your note of the 6th was received yesterday. I
      must again enter my protest against your second declaration
      that I reflected upon your brigade in the battle of
      Malvern Hill. Witnesses to our interview affirm that my
      remarks were entirely personal to yourself.

      In regard to your demand for satisfaction, I construe it to
      mean either that I must apologize to you for the language
      used by me on the battlefield, or that I must grant you a
      hostile meeting. If the first interpretation be correct, I
      will state that I will make full, public, and ample
      concessions when satisfied that I did you injustice; and
      this I would do without any demand. I certainly thought
      that you had taken the field too late, and that you left it
      too early. You may, however, have done your whole duty, and
      held your ground as long as it was possible for a brave and
      skillful officer to hold it. If the facts prove this to be
      so, no one will be more gratified than myself, and my
      acknowledgment of error will be cordial and complete.

      But if your demand means a challenge, its acceptance, when
      we have a country to defend and enemies to fight, would be
      highly improper and contrary to the dictates of plain duty,
      without reference to higher grounds of action. I will not
      make myself a party to a course of conduct forbidden alike
      by the plainest principles of duty, and the laws which we
      have mutually sworn to serve.

                                      Yours truly,
                                        D. H. HILL, Major General.
      BRIGADIER GENERAL ROBERT TOOMBS.

Just what General Toombs replied to this is not known. The letter has not been preserved in
this correspondence. It evidently declared that the explanation was not satisfactory. Major
R. J. Moses, Jr., a member of General Toombs' staff, submitted in writing the following report
of his recollection of General Hill's words to General Toombs at Malvern Hill:

      Where is your brigade, sir? I told you that I wanted a
      fighting brigade, and your brigade will not fight. I knew
      it would not, and you are the man who pretends to have been
      spoiling for a fight. For shame! Rally your troops! Where
      were you when I was riding up and down your line rallying
      your troops?

Major Moses adds:

      As aid-de-camp of General Robert Toombs, I remained with
      him until some time after this conversation. Previous to
      this conversation General Toombs had been about fifteen
      yards to the rear of the center of his line and his troops
      were unbroken. There were many men coming by us, but I saw
      not over ten from General Toombs' brigade. The order was
      given "Forward, left oblique," and General Toombs moved to
      the left of his line. When General Hill met him and
      commenced this attack on the character of himself and his
      brigade without the slightest provocation, General Toombs
      had not only been rallying the troops, but continued to use
      his best endeavors to rally them till late at night. I was
      with General Toombs the whole time from the commencement of
      the action until half or three-quarters of an hour after
      the conversation.

The following is the concluding letter of the correspondence:

      July 15, 1862.

      General: I regret that my last note, which was intended
      to be conciliatory, has been misunderstood or
      misappreciated. I take it for granted that you know enough
      of my previous history to be aware that a hostile meeting,
      under any circumstances, would be abhorrent to my
      principles and character. At this time it would be in the
      highest degree improper. I have offered you the only
      redress which I could make even after a meeting, viz., an
      acknowledgment of error when convinced of that error. As no
      good can result from a continued correspondence, it will
      close on my part with this communication. His devotion to the
Confederate cause was undoubted, but his zeal sometimes made him harsh,
and more than once he placed himself in the position of reflecting upon
the conduct of others. On one occasion at the battle of Chickamauga,
where General Hill was in command of the extreme right of the
Confederate line, on the second day of the battle information was
brought to him of the sudden and unexpected advance of a strong Federal
force against his line. It proved to be the division of the Federal
General Gordon Granger. General Hill and General W. H. T. Walker, who
commanded two divisions under General Hill, proceeded at once to the
threatened point, to ascertain the situation of affairs, accompanied by
some members of their staff. Arrived at a point where this new arrival
of Federal forces could be seen, General Walker deferred to General Hill
and asked him, "What do you wish me to do?"

"What do I want you to do?" said Hill with severity, and even with something like a snarl,
"I want you to fight."

General Walker flushed up in a moment. He was not a man to deserve any reflection upon his
courage or to bear it when offered. No man in the old army had a higher and more deserved reputation
for dashing courage. He had been desperately wounded in Florida, and again wounded, supposed
to be mortally, in leading the assault on Chapultepec in the Mexican War, and had, on many
occasions, given undoubted evidence of his valor and fidelity. He answered hotly, "Of course
I will fight; you know that, General Hill, well enough; but, by God! sir, there are two ways
of fighting, one to whip and the other to get whipped."

The point was a good one. Major Joseph B. Cumming, chief of General Walker's staff, who related
this incident, says it had the desired effect.

When Longstreet marched against Pope he stationed General Toombs' brigade to guard one of the
fords of the Rapidan. Toombs was absent at the time and when he rode up ordered them back to
camp. General Longstreet heard of Toombs making stump speeches and "referring in anything but
complimentary terms of his commander." He sent General Toombs to Gordonsville. Afterward he
received an apology from Toombs and directed him to join his command. ["]As we were preparing
for the charge at Manassas (second battle), Toombs got there, riding rapidly with his hat in
his hand, and was much enthused. I was just sending a courier to his command with a dispatch.
'Let me take it,' he exclaimed. 'With pleasure,' I responded, and handed him the paper. He
put spurs to his horse and dashed off, accompanied by his courier. When he rode up and took
command of his brigade there was wild enthusiasm, and, everything being ready, an exultant
shout was sent up, and the men sprang to the charge. I never had any more trouble with Toombs.
We were afterward warm personal friends."

On the 30th of August, 1862, Hon. A. H. Stephens wrote to Mrs. Toombs that General Toombs was
still at Gordonsville. He said:

      How long he will remain, I do not know. I thought at first
      that it would only be for a day or two, or until General
      Longstreet could receive and reply to two notes he had
      written, explaining to my mind very fully and
      satisfactorily his acts and conduct, which, it seems to me,
      General Longstreet had misunderstood. Such is still my
      opinion, and yet I may be mistaken. I do not know much of
      General Longstreet. I only know that General Toombs, who
      does know him, always expressed very high admiration of him
      as an officer.

At the second battle of Manassas, August 29, 1862, Toombs' brigade in Jones' division held
the rear of Longstreet's corps. Early in the morning the brigade took up the march in the direction
of the old battlefield of Manassas, where heavy firing was heard. Arriving at noon it was stationed
on the extreme right, or upon the Manassas Gap railroad. The brigades formed in echelon. General
Longstreet in his published report commended especially General Toombs for gallant conduct
at Manassas Plain.

General D. R. Jones, in his report of Manassas, says:

      General Toombs, released from arrest, under which he had
      been since the 18th of August, came upon the field shortly
      after his brigade went in under fire and accompanied it in
      action.

Captain H. L. French, of the 17th Georgia Regiment, says: "Soon after our engagement, to our
great satisfaction, we unexpectedly met our gallant commander, Brigadier General Robert Toombs,
who, anticipating the fight, had ridden hard all day. He was greeted with hearty cheers, and
said, 'Boys, I am proud of the report given of you by General Jones. I could not be with you
to-day, but this was owing to no fault of mine. To-morrow I lead you.'"

One report of this engagement declares that as Toombs dashed into the fire and joined his men,
he waved his hat and shouted, "Go it, boys! I am with you again. Jeff Davis can make a general,
but it takes God Almighty to make a soldier!"

The expulsion of Pope only accelerated the momentum of the Army of Northern Virginia. From
the front of Richmond, the theater of operations was transferred at once to the front of Washington,
and the Union army was again on the defensive. General Lee, freed from the necessity of guarding
the Confederate capital, resolved to invade Maryland. He reasoned that the prestige of the
invasion would advance the cause of the young nation abroad; that it would relieve Virginia
from incursions during the winter, and that the presence of the army in Maryland would raise
the standard of revolt and cause the liberation of that State from the Union cause. Lee's army,
however, was not equal to such an expedition. It was not well clothed or armed, and barely
numbered 40,000, while McClellan had 80,000.

Toombs' brigade accompanied Longstreet's corps in its counter-march from Hagarstown to Hill's
support. On the 14th of September these were withdrawn to the valley of the Antietam. The creek
of Antietam runs obliquely to the source of the Potomac, and empties into that river six miles
above Harper's Ferry. The Confederate lines were, on the 15th, drawn up in front of Sharpsburg,
Longstreet being on the right of the road from Sharpsburg.

In this place the creek is crossed by four stone bridges, and three of these were strongly
guarded by the Confederates. Burnside's army corps was stationed on the Sharpsburg Turnpike,
directly in front of bridge No. 3. The preliminary deploy occupied the 16th of September, an
artillery duel enlivening the time before the battle. Burnside lay behind the heights on the
east bank of the Antietam and opposite the Confederate right, which, Swinton says, it was designed
he should assail, after forcing the passage of the Antietam by the lower stone bridge. The
part assigned to General Burnside was of the highest importance, for a successful attack by
him upon the Confederate right, would, by carrying the Sharpsburg Crest, force Lee from his
line of retreat by way of Shepherdstown. Swinton says this task should have been an easy one,
for the Confederate forces at this point had been drawn upon to recruit the left where Hooker
had made his furious assaults.

There was left in the right wing of the Confederate army but a single division of 2500 men
under General D. R. Jones, and the force actually present to dispute the passage of the stone
bridge did not exceed 400. These troops were under the direction of General Robert Toombs,
and this engagement made his reputation as a fighter and was one of the most brilliant and
memorable of the Civil War. It was one o'clock before Burnside charged. General Lee, in his
report of the battle, said:

      In the afternoon the enemy advanced on our right, where
      General Jones' division was posted, who handsomely
      maintained his position. General Toombs' brigade, guarding
      the bridge on Antietam Creek, gallantly resisted the
      approach of the enemy, but his superior number enabling him
      to extend his left, he crossed below the bridge and assumed
      a threatening attitude on our right, which fell back in
      confusion. By this time, between 3 and 4 o'clock P.M., A.
      P. Hill, with five of his brigades, reached the scene of
      action and drove the enemy from the position they had
      taken. The bridge was defended with two regiments of
      Toombs' brigade (2d and 20th) and the batteries of General
      Jones. General Toombs' small command repulsed five
      different assaults made by greatly superior forces, and
      maintained its position with distinguished gallantry....
      Toombs charged the flank of the enemy, while Archer moved
      upon the front of the Federal line. The enemy made a brief
      resistance and then ran in confusion.

Such commendation from the commander-in-chief of the Confederate army speaks for itself.

Speaking of the last charge, when the Federals were driven back over the creek in the counter-attack,
General Jones says:

      General Toombs, whom I had sent for, arriving from the
      right with a portion of his brigade (11th Georgia
      Regiment) was ordered to charge the enemy. This he did
      most gallantly, supported by Archer's brigade, delivering
      fire at less than fifty yards, dashing at the enemy with
      the bayonet, forcing him from the crest and following him
      down the hill.

General Garnett's report credits Toombs with having "reënforced the right just after it had
been driven back, and restored the fortunes of the day in that quarter."

From the report of General Toombs it appeared that when he first moved into Maryland he was
assigned to command a division composed of Toombs', Drayton's, and Anderson's brigades, and
took possession of Hagerstown. On September 14 he was ordered to Sharpsburg, two of his regiments
having been sent to Williamsport to protect the wagon trains. With two small regiments left,
General Toombs took position near the bridge over the Antietam on the road to Harper's Ferry.
He took possession of the ground with the 20th Georgia Regiment, commanded by Colonel Jonathan
B. Cumming, and the 2d Georgia Regiment, commanded by Colonel Holmes. The creek was comparatively
straight by this bridge. He formed his regiments along the creek in more open order than was
desirable on account of the smallness of his number. Subsequently the 50th Georgia, with scarcely
100 men, was placed under his command. Colonel Eubanks' battery was by order of General Longstreet
placed in his rear. The enemy opened on his position on Tuesday evening, the 16th of September.
On Wednesday morning, his pickets were driven in and the enemy menaced his position. The ground
descended gently to the creek covered with a narrow strip of woods, affording slight protection.
The enemy approached by the road parallel with his line of battle, he says, exposing his flank
to a destructive fire. Between 9 A. M. and 1 P. M. the Federals made five attempts to carry
the bridge, and were repulsed by the 2d and 20th Georgia regiments. Failing to wrest the bridge
from its heroic defenders, the enemy turned his attention to the fords. "Not being able to
get reënforcements, and seeing that the enemy would cross and attack my front, right flank,
and rear, Colonel Holmes having been killed, Major Harris wounded, both regiments having suffered
heavily, ammunition nearly exhausted, and the battery withdrawn, I withdrew my command to a
position, designated by Longstreet, opposite the lower fords. This change of position was made
very satisfactorily and without serious loss. The 15th and 17th Georgia regiments and part
of the 11th, previously detached, now came up and occupied the new position. The 20th and 2d
went to the ammunition train to replenish their cartridge boxes. The enemy moved through the
bridge and ford with extreme caution, and lost nearly two hours in crossing, about which time
A. P. Hill's division came from Harper's Ferry. I was ordered by Longstreet to put my command
in motion to meet the enemy. I found them in possession of the ground I was ordered to occupy,
including the bridge road and the suburbs of Sharpsburg. With less than one-fifth the numbers
of the enemy and within 100 paces of his lines I determined to give battle. I had instantly
to determine either to retreat or to fight. A retreat would have left the town of Sharpsburg
and General Longstreet's rear open to the enemy. The enemy advanced in good order to within
sixty or eighty paces, when the effectiveness of the fire threw his column into considerable
confusion, perceiving which I instantly ordered a charge, which was brilliantly executed by
my whole line. The enemy fled in confusion toward the river, making two or three efforts to
rally, which were soon defeated. The enemy brought over the bridge a battery. I ordered Richardson's
battery to open upon it, and at the same time the 15th and 20th Georgia charged upon it and
compelled it to rejoin the flying infantry. I desired to pursue the enemy across the river,
but, being deficient in artillery, I sent to General Lee for a battery, which came up too late.
I then determined to move my troops to my first position along the river, but received the
order to occupy the heights on the opposite side of the road leading to the bridge from Sharpsburg,
and there the troops bivouacked for the night."

The gallant conduct of Toombs' brigade at Sharpsburg was the theme on both sides. The country
rang with its exploits and the fiery Georgia brigadier became the toast of the army. Burnside's
heavy losses abundantly proved the stoutness of the resistance and the deadliness of the charges
of the Georgia troops.

The next evening, on the edge of Sharpsburg, General Toombs and his aids crossed a little branch
on his way to the headquarters of Colonel Benning. General Toombs rode his famous mare "Gray
Alice," so well known to his command. He was not very far over when a troop of cavalry rode
up. He challenged them, and they answered "We are friends." Captain Troup of his staff, however,
detected the ruse and fired into them. The squad returned the fire. General Toombs was shot
through the hand with which he was holding the reins. The gray mare at once became unmanageable
and ran back across the branch. As soon as he could control the mare, General Toombs rode back
to Colonel Benning and, reporting his wound, turned his brigade over to Colonel Benning. When
it became known that General Toombs was wounded his men were deeply pained. Always solicitous
for their welfare, his soldiers were devotedly attached to him. He took care of his brigade
even to the extremity of violating army discipline. He exacted the utmost consideration for
his men, and the officer who periled their safety, or disputed their efficiency, was quickly
called to account. Whether against Johnston, Longstreet, or Hill, the First Brigade, First
Division, was sure of a fearless champion in the person of its commander.

The battle of Sharpsburg was a very bloody one. The losses on the Federal side were nearly
12,500, while the Confederates lost 8000. Lee withdrew into Virginia, and McClellan was too
much demoralized to follow. Longstreet, in summing up the Manassas and Maryland campaign, declared
that in one month the troops had marched over two hundred miles upon little more than half
rations and fought nine battles and skirmishes. They had "killed, wounded, and captured nearly
as many men as we had in our ranks, besides taking arms and other munitions of war in large
quantities." General Longstreet compliments Brigadier General Toombs for his "gallant defense
at the bridge of Antietam and his vigorous charge upon the enemy's flank; he was severely wounded
at the close of the engagement."

General Toombs returned to his home after Sharpsburg, and remained several months. He rejoined
his command near Fredericksburg, but in March, 1863, wrote a touching farewell to his brigade
and resigned his commission in the army of Northern Virginia. It seemed to him that he did
not have justice done him at Richmond. He aspired, with the ambition of a soldier, to be promoted
in his country's service. His conduct at Sharpsburg, where he wrung admiration from his superior
officers, appeared to call for recognition from the President, but he did not receive his major-generalship,
and, although more than once in the actual command of a division, did not secure that title.
It is true that he would have liked the promotion; but he did not expect it. He had written
to his wife that he would not be driven from the army until after some great battle, when he
should have the opportunity of doing something for his country. "The day after such an event,
I will retire if I live through it." The battle had occurred, his record was written upon the
stone bridge of Antietam, and his work was at an end.

Postmaster-General Reagan was one of those who recognized the merits of General Toombs. Twice
did he approach President Davis with the request that General Toombs be promoted to the command
of a division. That official replied promptly that he did not oppose it himself, but that he
could not do it without the recommendation of the army officers, and that recommendation had
not been given. Possibly the field officers believed the suggestion would have been ungracious
to Mr. Davis. General Toombs had not hesitated to criticise the policy and appointments of
the Richmond administration. That practice had strained his relations with the Confederate
Government, but Toombs was a man who "would not flatter Neptune for his trident."

General Toombs was not a trained soldier, but he had some fine points of a great commander.
He was the soul of energy and common sense. He was bold, dashing, magnetic. He had the quality
of infusing his spirit into his men. His quick mind seized the points of a campaign, and his
intellect was broad and overmastering. It is related of him that one day in Virginia he hurried
to the rear for a conference with Jefferson Davis, to which the President had summoned him,
upon some point of civil administration. This business over, he dashed back to the front, where
he had an engagement with General Lee over a plan of attack. General Longstreet said Toombs
had the kindling eye and rare genius of a soldier, but lacked the discipline of a military
man. This was the serious flaw in his character. He had what General Johnston declared was
the great drawback about the Southern soldier, "a large endowment of the instinct of personal
liberty," and it was difficult to subordinate his will to the needs of military discipline.
He had been accustomed to priority, and in whatever company, under whatever conditions he found
himself, his had been the part to lead and to rule. As Colonel Thomas W. Thomas had said of
him, "Toombs has always been the big frog in the pond." Men conceded to him this prestige.
Under the cast-iron rule of the army he found himself subordinated to men intellectually beneath
him, but trained and skilled in the art of war. He was swift to detect error, and impatient
in combating blunder. The rule of mediocrity, the red tape of the service, the restraints of
the corps, the tactics of the field galled his imperious spirit. He commanded his brigade as
he had represented his State in the Senate--as a sovereign and independent body, and like the
heroic Helvetian had blazoned on his crest, "No one shall cross me with impunity."

Robert Toombs made a mistake in sinking himself in the routine of a brigade commander. He should
have taken the War Department, or, like Pitt, have pushed the war from the floor of the Senate.
Swinton says that Abraham Lincoln brought the habits of a politician to military affairs, in
which their intrusion can only result in confusion of just relations. There is ineradicable
antagonism between the maxims which govern politics and those which govern war.

During General Toombs' absence in the field, he opposed the Conscript Acts of the Confederate
administration. He believed them arbitrary and unjust. He considered that this was a tendency
toward centralization which the Confederate Government was fighting; that it placed too much
power in the hands of one man; that it was deadly to States' Rights and personal liberty, and
that it would impair the efficiency of the army by lowering its patriotism. The champion of
this anti-administration policy in Georgia was Linton Stephens, the brother of the vice president.
Toombs in the field, the elder Stephens in Congress, and Linton Stephens in the Georgia Legislature,
fought the Conscription and Impressment Acts. Hon. Joseph E. Brown, the war Governor of Georgia,
was also a vigorous opponent of this policy. This influence gave rise, in the early part of
1864, to the Peace Resolutions of Linton Stephens, who sustained Governor Brown in his policy,
to inaugurate State action for "the preservation of rights and the attainment of peace." Linton
Stephens, in a strong letter to General Toombs at that time, called attention to the fact that
since the war began neither side had made any effort to stop the effusion of blood. He believed
that the professional soldiers and West Point generals would never permit the cessation of
hostilities. Such men, he thought, would not, in human nature, desire peace. "How can it be
explained," he wrote, "that both governments have fought on during these long years of blood
and tears and desolation, without either one offering terms of peace, and with both running
a swift race of rivalry in usurping the most despotic power under the ever-recurring and false
plea of necessities of war? Have both governments formed designs that cannot be accomplished
in peace, and which seek opportunity and shelter in the confusion and panic of war?"

Mr. Linton Stephens was a leading lawyer and legislator in Georgia. He was a man of great ability.
He had started the practice of law in the office of Robert Toombs, and had been a political
follower and close friend of the great Georgian. He had served upon the bench of the Supreme
Court of his State, and at the close of the war his political influence was probably greater
than that of any man at home. He was fearless, inflexible, high-toned, and full of power. He
did not hesitate to condemn the legislation asked for by Mr. Davis, and joined Mr. Toombs in
opposing the appointment of General Bragg as supervisor of all military operations. Mr. Stephens
believed that the next step after the Impressment Act would be the organization of all labor
into a military system under government control.

The result of the policy of Mr. Davis justified the protest of the Georgians, but there is
nothing to warrant the belief that Mr. Davis was moving toward military despotism or that he
relished the continuance of strife. He saw that the South was in for the war. Desperate situations
required desperate remedies. He grasped the government with a strong hand, and lacked neither
nerve nor patriotism. The principles of this policy were unsound, but the motives of Jefferson
Davis were pure. Nor was there reason to sustain the wholesale denunciation of West Point.
That school of soldiers was the backbone of the army, and the fact that so many Southern men
gave up commissions in the United States army and came South when their States seceded, overthrew
the idea that they were tools of the general government and had lost identity or sympathy with
people at home. But General Toombs was bold and impatient in his positions.

Equally opposed was he to the policy adopted in Georgia of recommending the planting of all
grain and no cotton. From Richmond he wrote in March, 1864, directions to his brother Gabriel
Toombs, who managed his plantations in Washington:

      I do not care to change my crops. I wish to raise an
      abundant provision crop and then as much cotton as I
      can.... Brown's and Chambers' policy is all foolishness....
      As to what I shall choose to plant on my own estates, I
      shall neither refer it to newspapers, nor to public
      meetings, nor to legislatures. I know what sort of people
      compose these classes. Let them take up arms and come with
      me to drive the intruders away from our soil, and then we
      will settle what sort of seed we will put into it.

CHAPTER XXIII.

WITH THE GEORGIA MILITIA.

General Toombs' next appearance in the field was as adjutant and inspector-general of General
G. W. Smith's division of Georgia militia. He was present during the battles before Atlanta,
the engagement at Peachtree Creek, and the siege of the city. General J. E. Johnston had just
been relieved from command of the Confederate forces, and General J. B. Hood placed in charge.
General Toombs wrote from Atlanta:

      The tone of the army has greatly improved. We are now
      receiving reënforcements from the West. Davis, having
      kicked Johnston out, now feels obliged to sustain Hood, so
      the country is likely to get good out of evil. General Hood
      is displaying great energy and using his best exertions for
      success. I think very well of him. He is a most excellent
      man, and undoubtedly of great military talent. Whether
      equal or not to this great struggle, time must prove.

      The militia are coming up finely. Twelve hundred of them
      arrived here this evening, armed and tolerably well
      equipped. Poor fellows! They are green and raw,
      undisciplined and badly officered. It keeps us at work day
      and night to bring order out of this confused mass, and we
      have but a poor chance. They march right into the
      trenches, and are immediately under the enemy's fire all
      day. We shall trust to a kind Providence alone to preserve
      them from a great disaster, and make them useful to the
      army and the country. The pressure is so great that we are
      compelled to put them to the work of veterans without an
      hour's preparation. I am doing my utmost to get them in the
      best possible position. Georgians are all coming up well
      except the cities.

Speaking of men who try to shirk duty, Mr. Toombs wrote, "Poor creatures! What do they want
to live for?"

General Toombs had the task of organizing the recruits and getting them ready for the field.
He writes to his wife: "Since I began this letter, the Yankees have begun an attack on a part
of our line and I was obliged to ride with General Hood to look after our defenses." General
Toombs alludes to General E. C. Walthall of Mississippi, as "a splendid officer and a gentleman."
He says: "The enemy are evidently intending to starve us rather than to fight us out. I have,
at the request of General Hood, not less than twenty letters to write on that very subject.
Sherman shells the town furiously every day. Not much damage yet."

It has been customary to speak in light terms of the Georgia militia, who, late in the day,
took the field to man the defenses when Sherman was marching to the sea. They were frequently
made up of old men and boys who had been exempt from the regular service, and these were hurried
into action with poor equipment and scant preparation. General Toombs, in a letter written
to his wife, July 25, 1864, says:

      The militia have behaved with great gallantry. This is
      sincerely true. They have far exceeded my expectations, and
      in the fight on Thursday equaled any troops in the line of
      battle. If they will stand and fight like men, our homes
      will be saved. God give them the spirit of men, and all
      will be well!

In another place he writes:

      We have a mixed crowd, a large number of earnest, brave,
      true men; then all the shirks and skulks in Georgia trying
      to get from under bullets.

General Toombs commended and endorsed the policy of Governor Brown during his six years' administration
of the office from 1857 to 1863. These two men were warm friends and political allies. When
Governor Brown's third term was drawing to a close, he preferred the selection of General Toombs
as his successor. But Toombs declined to make the race. His game now was war, not politics.
He preferred the field to the Cabinet. He writes with considerable feeling this letter to his wife:

      Whatever fate may befall me, I feel that this is my place,
      in the field and with the militia, with the men who own the
      country and who are struggling to preserve it for their
      children. I am truly thankful to God for the health he has
      given me to enable me to perform my part of this work.

He called all the sons of Georgia to come, even to "die together rather than let the Yankee
overrun and conquer Georgia." He concludes a letter of appeal:

                                Better be
    Where the unconquered Spartans still are free,
    In their proud charnel of Thermopylæ.

General Toombs' last military service, after the fall of Atlanta, was on the 20th of December,
1864, when as adjutant and inspector-general he served in General G. W. Smith's division, Georgia
militia, at the siege of Savannah. General Dick Taylor, in his "Destruction and Reconstruction,"
gives a very graphic description of General Toombs' energy. The Georgia militia had left Macon
for Savannah, and to avoid capture by the resistless column of Sherman's army, then marching
to the sea, was shipped by way of Thomasville. The trains were sometimes slow in moving, and
to General Taylor, who was anxious to mass all forces at Savannah, the delay was galling. When
Toombs came up, he "damned the dawdling trainmen, and pretty soon infused his own nervous force
into the whole concern. The wheezing engines and freight vans were readily put in motion, and
Governor Brown's 'army' started toward Savannah." News reached General Taylor about that time
that the Federal forces at Port Royal were coming up to capture Pocotaligo on the Charleston
and Savannah road. This was a dangerous move, as General Taylor was anxious to hold this line
for coast defense. He needed reënforcements to hold this point, and at once thought of "Joe
Brown's Army." The position of Governor Brown was, however, as General Taylor understood it,
that Georgia troops were to be held to guard Georgia soil. This was one of the points in his
discussion with Mr. Davis. General Taylor consulted with General Toombs, however, and they
arranged to have the Georgia militia "shunted off at a switch near Savannah and transported
quietly to Carolina." At Pocotaligo these troops had a lively brush with the Union forces and
succeeded in holding the railroad. The Georgians were plucky whether at home or abroad, but
General Taylor declared that Toombs enjoyed his part in making them "unconscious patriots."

Sherman's march to the sea was the concluding tragedy of the Civil War. The State which had
been at the forefront of the revolution had become the bloody theater of battle. From the Tennessee
River to Atlanta, Sherman and Johnston had grappled with deadly fury down the mountain defiles;
then Cheatham and Wheeler harassed him at Macon and united for a final siege of Savannah. The
granaries and workshops of the Confederacy were gone when Georgia was devastated--as General
Lord Wolseley said, Sherman's invasion was a swordthrust through the vitals of the young nation.
Robert Toombs had followed his own idea of meeting the invader as soon as he struck an inch
of State soil and fighting him as long as a man remained. From the fruitless defense of Savannah,
Toombs hastened to discuss the situation with Governor Brown. He happened to be dining with
him that April day when the news came of the surrender at Appomattox. The two men looked at
each other intently, when they realized that all was over.

Toombs and Brown had been closely allied since the day that the latter was nominated for Governor
in 1857. They had fought campaigns together. Toombs had sustained Governor Brown's war policy
almost to the letter. Now they shook hands and parted. Henceforth their paths diverged. Days
of bitterness put that friendship to an end. Both men worked his course during reconstruction
as he saw fit. But political differences deepened almost into personal feud.

General Toombs repaired to his home in Washington and, on the 4th of May, 1865, Jefferson Davis,
his Cabinet and staff, having retreated from Richmond to Danville, thence to Greensboro, N.
C., and Abbeville, S. C., rode across the country with an armed escort to Washington, Ga. Here,
in the old Heard House, the last meeting of the Confederate Cabinet was held. The members separated,
and the civil government of the Southern Confederacy passed into history. There were present
John C. Breckenridge, Secretary of War; John H. Reagan, Postmaster-General, besides the members
of Mr. Davis' staff. The Confederate President was worn and jaded. He looked pale and thin,
but was plucky to the last. After the surrender of Lee and Johnston, he wanted to keep up the
warfare in the mountains of Virginia, and in the country west of the Mississippi, but he was
finally persuaded that the Confederacy must cease to struggle. On the public square of Washington
the little brick house, with its iron rail and its red walls, is still pointed out to the visitor
as the spot where the Davis government dissolved. It was a dramatic fate which determined its
dissolution at the home of Robert Toombs. He had been present at its birth. His had been one
of the leading spirits of the revolution. He had served it in the Cabinet and field, he had
been pressed for the position of its chief magistracy, and now in the shadow of his own rooftree
its concluding council was held. General Reagan was a guest of General Toombs during his stay
in Washington, as was General St. John and Major Raphael J. Moses, who had been a member of
Toombs' staff. In the evening General Toombs called General Reagan into a room by himself and
inquired whether the latter needed any money. General Reagan said he had money enough to take
him to Texas. Then General Toombs inquired after Mr. Davis, and asked whether he had any money.
"I told him no," says General Reagan, "but that I had money enough to take us both West of
of the Mississippi, and had told Mr. Davis so. I had no doubt but that he would rely on that."
General Toombs then asked if Mr. Davis was well mounted. "I told him yes, that he had his bay
horse Kentucky, and that after the surrender General Lee had sent his fine gray Traveler, by
his son Robert, around through Lynchburg to Mr. Davis at Greenesboro, N. C." "Well," said General
Toombs, with thoughtfulness, "Davis and I had a quarrel once, but that is over now. I am at
home and can command money and men, and if Mr. Davis wants anything, I shall be glad to furnish
it." General Toombs added that under terms of the convention between Sherman and Johnston,
Mr. Davis was entitled to go where he pleased between that point and the Chattahoochee River.
"I wish you would say to Mr. Davis," said Toombs, in his bluff way, "that, if necessary, I
will call my men around me and see him safe to the Chattahoochee at the risk of my life."

On his return to the hotel Mr. Reagan gave General Toombs' message to Mr. Davis, and told the
latter of the inquiries and offers. "That is like Toombs," said Mr. Davis. "He was always a
whole-souled man."

The four men whom the Washington government wanted to arrest and hold responsible for the war
were Toombs, Davis, Slidell, and Howell Cobb. Their friends understood this perfectly, and
each man was urged to make his escape. Jefferson Davis was arrested in Irwin County, Ga., on
May 10. He was rapidly making his way to the West, and was trying to reach Texas. How General
Toombs finally escaped must be reserved for a more extended recital.

General Toombs and Mr. Davis never met but once after the war. It was unexpected, dramatic.
Some years after General Toombs had returned from his long exile, and Mr. Davis was just back
from his trip to England, the ex-president visited Lookout Mountain, Tennessee, the guest of
the poet Sidney Lanier. He here appeared at his best in the company of sympathetic and admiring
friends, and charmed everyone by his polish and learning. The day before Jefferson Davis left,
General and Mrs. Toombs arrived at the mountain. Mr. Davis was, at that time, absent on a horseback
trip. He was fond of riding, and had gone over to see some of the fine views of the mountain
and to inspect the fields where recent battles had raged with so much fury. The hotel was kept
by a Northern man who knew nothing of the relations between Mr. Davis and General Toombs, and
he believed the thing to do was to put General and Mrs. Toombs in a vacant room of the cottage
occupied by Mr. Davis. It was a small house, with a piazza extending along the front. It so
happened that the Toombses, who had just learned of Mr. Davis' presence at the hotel, were
sitting on the piazza chatting with friends when Mr. Davis came up. Mr. Davis had also heard
of General Toombs' arrival at the hotel, but neither knew that the other was domiciled in the
same cottage. To General Toombs the appearance was as if Mr. Davis had come at once to make
a cordial call. No one could be more hospitable and polite than Toombs, and this apparent challenge
to friendship brought out the best side of his nature. The men met with considerable warmth.
From General Toombs Mr. Davis advanced to Mrs. Toombs. Between these two the meeting was profoundly
affecting. He embraced her tenderly. Toombs and Davis had been friends and neighbors years
ago in Washington City, and Mr. Davis had been extremely fond of Mr. Toombs' family. The distinguished
party soon fell into friendly conversation. Next day Mr. Davis left Lookout Mountain. He never
met Robert Toombs again.

CHAPTER XXIV.

TOOMBS AS A FUGITIVE.

At the conclusion of the war, Secretary Stanton issued specific orders for the arrest of Jefferson
Davis, Alexander H. Stephens, and Robert Toombs. Mr. Stephens was arrested quietly at his own
home in Crawfordville on the 12th of May, 1865, two days after Mr. Davis had been overtaken.
On the same day a squad of soldiers, most of them negroes, reached Washington, Ga. They were
commanded by General Wilde, and their orders were to take General Toombs in charge. One of
the colored troops marched up town with the photograph of Toombs, which they had procured to
identify him, impaled upon his bayonet. General Toombs was, at the time, in his private office
at his residence. Hearing the noise in his yard, he walked out of his basement to the corner
of his front steps. There he perceived the squad and divined their purpose. "By God, the bluecoats!"
was all he said. Walking quickly through his back lot, he strode across his plantation and
disappeared. By this time the guard was clamoring at the front door, and Mrs. Toombs went out
to meet them. "Where is General Toombs?" the commander asked. "He is not here," the lady answered
firmly. A parley ensued, during which Mrs. Toombs managed to detain the men long enough to
enable her husband to get out of sight. "Unless General Toombs is produced, I shall burn the
house," retorted the officer. Mrs. Toombs blanched a little at this, but, biting her lip, she
turned on her heel, and coolly replied: "Very well, burn it." Among the listeners to this colloquy
was a young man just returned from the Confederate army. He was moved with indignation. He
still wore the gray jacket, and was deeply anxious for the Toombs family. He had been a neighbor
to them all his life, as had his father before him, and he shared the pride which the village
felt for its most distinguished resident.

He was the son of Hon. I. T. Irvin, a prominent public man and lifelong friend of General Toombs.
Preparations were made for the threatened fire. General Toombs did not come out. Furniture
was moved and papers destroyed, but the young Confederate was soon convinced that the threat
was a mere bluff. Relieved on that point, his loyal spirit yearned toward the fugitive. Charles
E. Irvin was the name of the young man, and he had seen service in the artillery under Longstreet.
Not yet twenty-one years of age, he was fired with ardor and devotion, and had already resolved
to aid General Toombs in escaping.

Riding over to a neighbor's house, Mr. J. T. Wingfield, he failed to find his friend, but left
word for General Toombs to let him know where to meet him with his horses. That night about
two o'clock Lieutenant Irvin got word from General Toombs to bring his horse to Nick Chenault's
by seven o'clock in the morning. This was a farm about eighteen miles from Washington, near
the Broad River. Here General Toombs mounted his trusted horse and felt at home. It was the
famous mare Gray Alice, which had carried him through all his campaigns. He had ridden her
during the charges at Antietam, and she had borne him from the fire of the scouts the night
he had received his wound. Once more he pressed her into service, and Robert Toombs, for the
first time in his life, was a fugitive. This man, who commanded men and had gained his own
way by sheer brain and combativeness, fled by stealth from a dreaded enemy. It was a new rôle
for Toombs. His plucky young guide was resolved to accompany him in his flight--it might be
to his death; it was all the same to Lieutenant Irvin. Riding swiftly into Elbert County, the
two men crossed over to Harrison Landing, a picturesque spot on the Savannah River. Here dwelt
an old man, Alexander LeSeur, who led something of a hermit's life. Before the war he had been
a "Know-nothing," and had been exposed to Toombs' withering fire upon that class of politicians.
LeSeur met the fugitive with a laugh and a friendly oath. "You have been fighting me for forty
years," he said, "and now that you are in trouble, I am the first man you seek for protection."

General Toombs had not traveled too fast. The country was swarming with raiders. News of the
capture of Davis and Stephens had fired these men with desire to overhaul the great champion
of secession. A Federal major, commanding a force of men, put up at Tate's residence, just
opposite the hermit's island. While there, a negro from the LeSeur place informed the officer
that some prominent man was at the house. "If it ain't Jeff Davis, it is just as big a man,"
said he. The hint was taken. The island was surrounded and carefully watched, but when the
party went over to capture Toombs, the game was gone.

General Toombs now started out carefully up the Savannah River. In Elbert, he was in the hands
of his friends. This county, which had first encouraged the struggles of the young lawyer,
which had followed him steadfastly in his political fortunes, which had furnished soldiers
for his brigade, now supplied protectors at every step. Before leaving this county he was initiated
into a Masonic lodge, and took the first degrees of the order. More than once the signs and
symbols of the mystic brotherhood stood him in good stead on this eventful trip. He was afterward
a high Mason, and remained to his death a devoted friend of the order.

Continuing his journey alone he stopped at the Tugaloo River in Habersham County, and remained
at the house of Colonel Prather until Lieutenant Irvin, whom he had sent back to Washington
with letters, could rejoin him with funds and clothing. Here his young companion soon found
him, bringing, besides letters from home, some astonishing news.

"General," said Lieutenant Irvin, "what do you think? Your friend General Joseph E. Brown has
sold out the State of Georgia, and gone over to the Republican party."

Toombs glared at him savagely.

"For the first time on this trip," says Lieutenant Irvin, "he looked like he wanted to kill
me. He brought his fist down heavily upon the table and said: 'By God, I don't believe it!'

"'Well here it is in black and white.'"

Lieutenant Irvin gave him the paper in which was printed Governor Brown's famous address to
the people of Georgia.

"This news," said Lieutenant Irvin, "absolutely sent the old man to bed."

Toombs remained a week at Colonel Prather's, and in the meantime sent Lieutenant Irvin to Savannah
with important letters. He desired to escape, if possible, through the port of Savannah. The
Savannah friends were not at home, however, and Lieutenant Irvin, bearing these important letters,
actually fell into the hands of the enemy.

He was a high-strung, plucky young fellow, and was reproved by a Federal officer for continuing
to wear brass buttons. Irvin retorted sharply, and was hurried into prison. Fearing that he
would be searched and his papers found, he slipped them to a friend, undetected by the guard.
After remaining in prison for several hours, Lieutenant Irvin was released and censured by
the officer, who reminded him that there were bayonets about him.

"Yes," retorted young Irvin, "and brave men always avail themselves of such advantages."

Trudging back from Savannah, Lieutenant Irvin found General Toombs at the Rembert place, near
Tallalah Falls. This was a beautiful home in a wild, picturesque country, where Toombs was
less liable to capture than in middle Georgia, and where he was less known to the people. General
Toombs had already procured the parole papers of Major Luther Martin, of Elbert County, a friend
and member of his former command. He traveled under that name, and was so addressed by his
young companion all along the route. General Toombs passed the time deer-hunting in Habersham.
He had the steady hand and fine eye of a sportsman, and he was noted for his horsemanship and
endurance.

Returning toward Washington through Elbert County, General Toombs decided to spend a night
with Major Martin. Lieutenant Irvin stoutly opposed this and warned him that if the enemy were
to look for him anywhere, it would certainly be at Martin's house. Turning down the road, he
finally concluded to put up at the house of Colonel W. H. Mattox. It was well he did. That
night a party of thirty soldiers raided the Martin plantation on a hot trail, and searched
thoroughly for Toombs.

During his travels General Toombs did not wear a disguise of any sort. Dressed in a checked
suit, and riding his gray mare, he was a prominent object, and to most of the people was well
known. One day he wore green goggles, but soon threw them away in disgust. The nearness of
troops forced General Toombs to abandon his plan of going home for his family before leaving
the country. He dispatched Lieutenant Irvin to Washington with letters to his wife, telling
her that he would not see her again until he had gone abroad, when he would send for her to
join him. He himself passed through Centreville, twelve miles from his home, and directed his
young guide where to meet him in middle Georgia. This Lieutenant Irvin found it very hard to
do. General Toombs was very discreet as to whom he took into his confidence. Once or twice
he cautioned his companion against certain parties, to the surprise of the young man. Toombs,
however, read human nature pretty well, and, later, when the real character of these persons
developed, Irvin understood the counsels of his older friend. So carefully did General Toombs
cover his tracks that Lieutenant Irvin, after his detour to Washington, was a long time in
overtaking him. Traveling straight to Sparta, Lieutenant Irvin called on Judge Linton Stephens
and asked about the general. This shrewd Georgian came to the door and flatly denied knowing
anything about Toombs.

"He questioned me closely," said Lieutenant Irvin, "and finding that I was really who I pretended
to be, finally agreed to take me to Toombs. Riding down to Old-Town, in Jefferson County, we
failed to find Toombs, but receiving a clew that he had passed through the David Dickson plantation
in Hancock County, I accosted Mr. Worthen, the manager. 'Has an old man riding a gray horse
passed this way,' Worthen was asked. He promptly answered, 'No.' Believing that he was deceiving
me, I questioned him more closely."

Worthen tried to persuade the young man to get down and take some plums. He was evidently anxious
to detain him. Finally he eyed the stranger more closely, and, convinced that he was the companion
whom Toombs expected, he confessed that General Toombs had been at his place and was then at
the home of Major Gonder in Washington County.

Lieutenant Irvin had ridden over two hundred miles in this search and lost two or three days
out of his way. Toombs covered his trail so carefully that it was difficult even for his friends
to find him. Small wonder that he was not captured by the enemy.

Lieutenant Irvin was not yet "out of the woods." Reaching the home of Major Gonder late in
the evening, he rode up to the front fence, fifty yards from the dwelling. Mrs. Gonder and
her daughter were sitting on the piazza. Lieutenant Irvin asked the usual question about the
old man and the gray horse. The lady replied that she knew nothing about them.

Lieutenant Irvin said: "But I was directed to this place."

Mrs. Gonder: "I should like to know who sent you."

Lieutenant Irvin: "But has no one passed or stopped here, answering my description?"

Both ladies were now considerably worked up; the younger scarcely suppressed her amusement.

"Come, ladies," said Lieutenant Irvin, "I see you both know more than you will confess."

"If I do, I will die before I tell it," naïvely replied the elder.

"Now I know you know where General Toombs is."

"Then get it out of me if you can."

Finally the young man persuaded her that he was the friend of Toombs, and Mrs. Gonder reluctantly
directed him to Colonel Jack Smith's over on the Oconee River.

Riding up to Colonel Smith's, his valiant pursuer spied General Toombs through the window.
The head of the house, however, denied that Toombs was there at all.

"But that looks very much like him through the window," said Lieutenant Irvin.

"Young man," retorted Colonel Smith, "what is your name?"

Of course this disclosure led to the reunion of the fugitive and his friend.

Toombs realized that he was in almost as much danger from his own friends as from the enemy.
He was careful to whom he disclosed his identity or his plans, for fear that they might indiscreetly
comment on his presence or embarrass him even by their willingness to befriend him. So it was
that he proceeded secretly, picking his way by stealth, and actually doing much of his travel
by night.

At the home of Colonel Jack Smith, the two men remained a week to rest their horses and take
their bearings. General Toombs spent much time on the Oconee trolling for trout, while bodies
of Union cavalry were watching the ferries and guarding the fords, seining for bigger fish.

Passing into Wilkinson County, General Toombs stopped at the home of Mr. Joseph Deas. When
Lieutenant Irvin asked if the pair could come in, Deas replied, "Yes, if you can put up with
the fare of a man who subsists in Sherman's track."

A maiden sister of Deas lived in the house. With a woman's sensitive ear, she recognized General
Toombs' voice, having heard him speak at Toombsboro seventeen years before. This discovery,
she did not communicate to her brother until after the guests had retired. Deas had been discussing
politics with Toombs, and his sister asked him if he knew to whom he had been talking all night?
Deas said he did not.

"Joe Deas," she said, "are you a fool? Don't you know that is General Toombs?"

Strange to say, a negro on the place, just as they were leaving, cried out "Good-by, Marse
Bob." He had driven the family to the speaking seventeen years before, and had not forgotten
the man who defended slavery on that day.

"Good Lord!" said Toombs, "go give that negro some money."

This same negro had been strung up by the thumbs by Sherman's troops a few months before because
he would not tell where his master's mules were hidden. He piloted General Toombs through the
woods to the home of Colonel David Hughes, a prominent and wealthy farmer of Twiggs County.
Colonel Hughes had been in Toombs' brigade, and the general remained with him a week.

General Toombs was sitting on the piazza of Colonel Hughes's house one afternoon when an old
soldier asked permission to come in. He still wore the gray, and was scarred and begrimed.
He eyed General Toombs very closely, and seemed to hang upon his words. He heard him addressed
as Major Martin, and finally, when he arose to leave, wrung the general's hand.

"Major Martin," he said, brushing the tears from his eyes, "I'm mighty glad to see you. I wish
to God I could do something for you."

At the gate he turned to Colonel Hughes and said: "I know who that is. It is General Toombs.
You can't fool me."

"Why do you think so?" Colonel Hughes asked.

"Oh, I remember Gray Alice jumping the stone walls at Sharpsburg too well to forget the rider now."

"Colonel," he continued, "this morning a man near here, who is a Republican and an enemy of
General Toombs, thought he recognized him near your house. He saw him two hundred yards away.
I heard him say he believed it was Toombs and he wished he had his head shot off. I came here
to-night to see for myself. You tell General Toombs that if he says the word, I will kill that
scoundrel as sure as guns."

The veteran was persuaded, however, to keep quiet and do nothing of the sort.

It was at this time that Lieutenant Irvin found that the ferries of the Ocmulgee River were
guarded from one end to the other. Near this place Davis had been captured and the Union troops
were on a sharp lookout for Toombs. Convinced that further travel might be hazardous, General
Toombs and his friend rode back to the mountains of North Georgia, and there remained until
the early fall. It was in the month of October that the fugitives again started on their checkered
flight. The May days had melted into summer, and summer had been succeeded by early autumn.
The crops, planted when he started from home that spring day, were now ripening in the fields,
and Northern statesmen were still declaring that Toombs was the arch-traitor, and must be apprehended.
Davis was in irons, and Stephens languished in a dungeon at Fortress Monroe.

Passing once more near Sparta, Ga., Toombs met, by appointment, his friends, Linton Stephens,
R. M. Johnson, W. W. Simpson, Jack Lane, Edge Bird, and other kindred spirits. It was a royal
reunion, a sort of Lucretia Borgia feast for Toombs--"eat and drink to-day, for to-morrow we
may die."

Traveling their old road through Washington County, they crossed the Ocmulgee, this time in
safety, and passed into Houston County. The Federals believed Toombs already abroad and had
ceased to look for him in Georgia. After the passage was made General Toombs said: "Charlie,
that ferryman eyed me very closely. Go back and give him some money."

Lieutenant Irvin did return. The ferryman refused any gift. He said: "I did not want to take
what you did give me." Irvin asked the reason. The ferryman said: "Tell General Toombs I wish
to God I could do something for him."

General Toombs had a wide personal acquaintance in Georgia. He seldom stopped at a house whose
inmates he did not know, and whose relatives and connections he could not trace for generations.
Sometimes, when incognito, the two men were asked where General Toombs was. They answered, "Cuba."

At Oglethorpe, in Macon County, General Toombs rode right through a garrison of Federal soldiers.
As one of his regiments came from this section, General Toombs was afraid that some of his
old soldiers might recognize him on the road. A Federal officer advanced to the middle of the
street and saluted the travelers. Their hearts bounded to their throats, and, instinctively,
two hands stole to their revolvers. Pistols and spurs were the only resources. Chances were
desperate, but they were resolved to take them. The officer watched them intently as they rode
leisurely through the town, but he was really more interested in their fine horses, "Gray Alice"
and "Young Alice," than in the men. Jogging unconcernedly along until the town was hidden by
a hill, General Toombs urged his horse into a run, and left "his friends, the enemy," far in
the rear. It was a close call, but he did not breathe freely yet. There was possibility of
pursuit, and when the party reached the residence of a Mr. Brown, a messenger was sent back
to the town to mislead the soldiers should pursuit be attempted. From the hands of the enemy,
General Toombs and his friend were now inducted into pleasanter scenes. The house was decorated
with lilies and orange blossoms. A wedding was on hand, and the bride happened to be the daughter
of the host. Brown was a brave and determined man. He assured General Toombs that when the
wedding guests assembled, there would be men enough on hand, should an attack be made, to rout
the United States garrison, horse, foot, and dragoons. At Dr. Raines' place, on the Chattahoochee
River, a horse drover happened to say something about Toombs. He gave the statesman a round
of abuse and added: "And yet, they tell me that if I were to meet General Toombs and say what
I think of him, I would either have a fight or he would convince me that he was the biggest
man in the world."

Tired of the long horseback ride, having been nearly six months in the saddle, the men now
secured an ambulance from Toombs' plantation in Stewart County, and crossed the river into
Alabama. His faithful mare, which he was forced to leave behind, neighed pathetically as her
master rode away in a boat and pulled for the Alabama shore. At Evergreen they took the train,
and it seemed that half the men on the cars recognized General Toombs. General Joseph Wheeler,
who was on board, did not take his eyes off him. Toombs became nervous under these searching
glances, and managed to hide his face behind a paper which he was reading. At Tensas Station
he took the boat for Mobile. There was a force of Federal soldiers on board, and this was the
closest quarters of his long journey. There was now no chance of escape, if detected. The soldiers
frequently spoke to General Toombs, but he was not in the slightest way molested.

At Mobile General Toombs took his saddle-bags and repaired to the home of his friend Mr. Evans,
about four miles from the city. There he was placed in the care of Howard Evans and his sister,
Miss Augusta J. Evans, the gifted Southern authoress. Anxious to conceal the identity of their
guest, these hospitable young people dismissed their servants, and Miss Evans herself cooked
and served General Toombs' meals with her own hands. She declared, with true hospitality, that
she felt it a privilege to contribute to the comfort and insure the safety of the brilliant
statesman. She was a Georgian herself, and with her this was a labor of love.

These were among the most agreeable moments of General Toombs' long exile. He loved the companionship
of intellectual women, and the conversation during these days was full of brilliant interest.
Miss Evans was a charming talker, as bright as a jewel, and Toombs was a Chesterfield with
ladies. The general would walk to and fro along the shaded walks and pour forth, in his matchless
way, the secret history of the ruin of Confederate hopes.

General Toombs wrote home, in courtly enthusiasm, of his visit to Mobile. Mr. Stephens sent
Miss Evans a warm letter of thanks for her attentions to his friend. "I have," said he, "just
received a letter from General Toombs, who has been so united with me in friendship and destiny
all our lives, giving such account of the kind attentions he received from you and your father
while in Mobile, that I cannot forbear to thank you and him for it in the same strain and terms
as if these attentions had been rendered to myself. What you did for my friend, in this particular,
you did for me."

While General Toombs was in Mobile, General Wheeler called upon the Evans family and remarked
that he thought he had seen General Toombs on the train. Miss Evans replied that she had heard
General Toombs was in Cuba.

Lieutenant Irvin went to New Orleans and secured from the Spanish Consul a pass to Cuba for
"Major Luther Martin." At Mobile General Toombs took the boat Creole for New Orleans. He seemed
to be nearing the end of his long journey, but it was on this boat that the dramatic incident
occurred which threatened to change the course of his wanderings at last. While General Toombs
was at supper, he became conscious that one of the passengers was eying him closely. He said
to Lieutenant Irvin: "Charlie, don't look up now, but there is a man in the doorway who evidently
recognizes me."

"General, probably it is someone who thinks he knows you."

"No," replied Toombs quietly, "that man is a spy."

Lieutenant Irvin asked what should be done. General Toombs told him to go out and question
the man and, if convinced that he was a spy, to throw him over the stern-rail of the steamer.
Lieutenant Irvin got up and went on deck. The stranger followed him. Irvin walked toward the
rail. The stranger asked him where he was from. He answered "North Carolina."

"Who is that with you?" he questioned.

"My uncle, Major Martin," said Irvin.

The man then remarked that it looked very much like Robert Toombs. Irvin answered that the
likeness had been noted before, but that he could not see it.

"Young man," said the stranger, "I don't want to dispute your word, but that is certainly Toombs.
I know him well, and am his friend."

Irvin then gave up the idea of throwing him overboard. Had the brave young officer not been
convinced that the party questioning him was Colonel M. C. Fulton, a prominent resident of
Georgia, he says he would certainly have pitched him into the Gulf of Mexico.

General Toombs, when informed of the identity of Colonel Fulton, sent for him to come to his
room, and the two men had a long and friendly conversation.

Arriving at New Orleans General Toombs drove up to the residence of Colonel Marshal J. Smith.
On the 4th of November, 1865, he boarded the steamship Alabama, the first of the Morgan line
put on after the war between New Orleans, Havana, and Liverpool. A tremendous crowd had gathered
at the dock to see the steamer off, and Lieutenant Irvin tried to persuade General Toombs to
go below until the ship cleared. But the buoyant Georgian persisted in walking the deck, and
was actually recognized by General Humphrey Marshall of Texas, who had known him in the Senate
before the war.

"No," said Toombs to his companion's expostulations, "I want fresh air, and I will die right
here. I am impatient to get into neutral waters, when I can talk. I have not had a square,
honest talk in six months."

By the time the good ship had cleared the harbor, everybody on board knew that Robert Toombs,
"the fire-eater and rebel," was a passenger, and hundreds gathered around to listen to his
matchless conversation.

Lieutenant Irvin never saw General Toombs again until 1868. He himself was an officer of the
Irvin artillery, Cutts' battalion, being a part of Walker's artillery in Longstreet's corps.
Entering the army at seventeen years of age, Charles E. Irvin was a veteran at twenty-one.
He was brave, alert, tender, and true. He recalls that when his company joined the army in
Richmond, Robert Toombs, then Secretary of State, gave them a handsome supper at the Exchange
Hotel. "I remember," said he, "with infinite satisfaction, that during the seven months I accompanied
General Toombs, in the closest relations and under the most trying positions, he was never
once impatient with me." Frequently, on this long and perilous journey, Toombs would say; "Well,
my boy! suppose the Yankees find us to-day; what will you do?" "General, you say you won't
be taken alive. I reckon they will have to kill me too."

General Toombs often declared that he would not be captured. Imprisonment, trial, and exile,
he did not dread; but to be carried about, a prize captive and a curiosity through Northern
cities, was his constant fear. He was prepared to sell his life dearly, and there is no doubt
but that he would have done so.

During all these trying days, Toombs rode with the grace and gayety of a cavalier. He talked
incessantly to his young companion, who eagerly drank in his words. He fought his battles over
again and discussed the leaders of the Civil War in his racy style. He constantly predicted
the collapse of the greenback system of currency, and speculated facetiously each day upon
the chances of capture. He calculated shrewdly enough his routes and plans, and when he found
himself on terra firma, it was under the soft skies of the Antilles with a foreign flag above him.

CHAPTER XXV.

WITHOUT A COUNTRY.

From Cuba General Toombs proceeded to Paris. It was early in July before he reached his new
stopping place. He found himself somewhat restricted in funds, as he had not had time to turn
his property into gold to make his trip abroad. It is related that just after the departure
of the famous "specie train," through Washington in the wake of Mr. Davis' party, a Confederate
horseman dashed by the residence of General Toombs and threw a bag of bullion over the fence.
It was found to contain five thousand dollars, but Toombs swore he would not even borrow this
amount from his government. He turned it over to the authorities for the use of disabled Confederate
soldiers, and hurriedly scraped up what funds he could command in case he should be compelled
to fly. Arriving in Paris, General Toombs succeeded in selling one of his plantations, realizing
about five dollars an acre for it. He used to explain to the astounded Frenchmen, during his
residence abroad, that he ate an acre of dirt a day.

General Toombs repaired to Enghien, where he took a course of sulphur baths for the benefit
of his throat. Constant exposure with the army and in his flight had brought on his old enemy,
the asthma. He had been a healthy man, having long passed the limit of manhood before he tasted
medicine. Late in life, an attack of scarlet fever left his throat in a delicate condition.

Mrs. Toombs joined him in Paris in July, 1865, and he passed eighteen months quietly with her
in Europe. It was in marked contrast to his tour in 1855, when, as United States Senator, he
had gone from place to place, observed, honored, and courted. He was now an exile without a
country. He had seen his political dreams wiped out in blood and his home in the hands of the
enemy. From the dignity and power of a United States Senator and a possible aspirant to the
Presidency, he had been branded as a conspirator, and forced, like Mirabeau, to seek shelter
in distant lands.

France was, at that time, in a state of unrest. Louis Napoleon was watching with anxiety the
eagles of Prussia hovering over the German Confederation. Austria had already succumbed to
Prussian power, and Napoleon had been blocked in his scheme to secure, from this disorder,
his share of the Rhenish provinces. Toombs, who had fled from a restored Union in America,
now watched the march of consolidation in Europe, and predicted its final success.

General Toombs was an object of interest in Europe. His position toward the American government
prevented his public recognition by the rulers, but he used to relate with zest his interviews
with Carlyle, the Empress Eugenie, and other notables. He was a man to attract attention, and
his talk was fascinating and bright.

He was sometimes sought in a legal way by prominent financiers, who asked his opinions upon
fiscal matters in America. There is no doubt but that, like Judah P. Benjamin, he could have
built up a large practice abroad, had he cared to do so; but permanent residence away from
home was entirely out of his mind.

In December, 1866, General and Mrs. Toombs received a cable message telling them of the death
of their only daughter, Mrs. Dudley M. DuBose, in Washington, Ga. Mrs. Toombs at once returned
home, leaving the grief-stricken father alone in Paris. Anxious to go back with her, he was
advised that matters were still unsettled in the United States. The impeachment of Andrew Johnson
was in progress, and his conviction meant restored martial law for the South. So the days were
full of woe for the lonely exile.

On December 25, 1866, he writes a beautiful and pathetic letter to his wife. While the denizens
of the gay city were deep in the celebration of the joyous Christmas feast, the Southern wanderer,
"with heart bowed down," was passing through the shadows, and suffering in silence the keenest
pangs of affliction. Around him the votaries of fashion and wealth were flushed with gayety.
Paris was in the ecstasy of Christmastide. But the depths of his soul were starless and chill,
and in the midst of all this mirth one heart was tuned to melancholy. He writes to his wife:

      The night you left I retired to the room and did not go to
      sleep until after two o'clock. I felt so sad at parting
      with you and could not help thinking what a long dreary
      trip you had that night. I shall have a long journey of
      five thousand miles to Havana, and do not know that I shall
      meet a human being to whom I am known, but if I keep well I
      shall not mind that, especially as I am homeward bound; for
      my hearthstone is desolate, and clouds and darkness hover
      over the little remnant that is left of us, and of all our
      poor friends and countrymen; and, when you get home,
      Washington will contain nearly all that is dear to me in
      this world. I remained alone yesterday after I got up and
      went to my solitary meal. I immediately came back to my
      room, and have seen nothing of Christmas in Paris.

On January 1, 1867, he writes:

      This is the first of the new year. How sad it opens upon
      me! In a foreign land, with all that is dear to me on earth
      beyond the ocean, either on the way to a distant home or at
      its desolate fireside. Well, I shall not nurse such gloomy
      ideas. Let us hope that the new year may be happier and
      that we may grow better. God knows I cannot regret that
      1866 is gone. I hope its calamities will not enter with us
      into 1867. I had hoped to hear from New York of your safe
      arrival on the other side of the ocean.

The loss of his daughter Sallie was a severe blow to General Toombs. But two of his children
lived to be grown. His eldest daughter Louise died in 1855, shortly after her marriage to Mr.
W. F. Alexander. General Toombs had a son who died in early childhood of scarlet fever. This
was a great blow to him, for he always longed for a son to bear his name. Away off in Paris
his heart yearned for his four little grandchildren, left motherless by this new affliction.
He writes again from Paris:

      I almost determined to take the steamer Saturday and run
      the gauntlet to New York. I would have done so but for my
      promise to you. I know everything looks worse and worse on
      our side of the ocean, but when will it be any better? Is
      this state of things to last forever? To me it is becoming
      intolerable.... Kiss the dear little children for me. Bless
      their hearts! How I long to see them and take them to my
      arms. God bless you! Pray for me that I may be a better man
      in the new year than in all the old ones before in my time.

Early in January General Toombs decided to sail for Cuba and thence to New Orleans. If he found
it unsafe to remain in the South he concluded he could either go back to Cuba or extend his
travels into Canada. He had promised his wife he would remain abroad for the present. But he
writes:

      The worst that can happen to me is a prison, and I don't
      see much to choose between my present condition and any
      decent fort. I feel so anxious about you and the children
      that it makes me very wretched.

From Paris, January 16, 1867, he writes:

      My preparations are all complete, and I leave to-morrow on
      the New World for Havana and New Orleans, via
      Martinique. I am well; except my throat. I shall have a
      long and lonesome voyage, with not much else to cheer me
      but that I shall find you and our dear little ones at the
      end of my journey. If I am permitted to find you all well,
      I shall be compensated for its fatigues and dangers. God
      grant that we may all meet once more in this world in
      health!

                      Yours truly and affectionately, as ever,
                        TOOMBS.

General Toombs returned to America and after a short residence in Canada went to Washington,
where he had a long interview with his old senatorial colleague, President Andrew Johnson.
He went home from Washington and was never again molested. He made no petition for relief of
political disabilities. He was never restored to citizenship. When Honorable Samuel J. Randall
proposed his General Amnesty Act in 1875, Mr. Blaine and other Republicans desired to exclude
from its provisions the names of Davis and Toombs. The Democrats would not accept this amendment,
and the bill was never passed. Once, when Senator Oliver P. Morton asked General Toombs why
he did not petition Congress for pardon, Toombs quietly answered, "Pardon for what? I have
not pardoned you all yet."

CHAPTER XXVI.

COMMENCING LIFE ANEW.

When General Toombs finally returned to Georgia it was with a great part of his fortune gone,
his political career cut off by hopeless disability, and his household desolate. These were
serious calamities for a man fifty-seven years of age. He found himself forced under new and
unfavorable conditions to build all over again, but he set about it in a vigorous and heroic
way. His health was good. He was a splendid specimen of manhood. His once raven locks were
gray, and his beard, which grew out from his throat, gave him a grizzly appearance. His dark
eye was full of fire and his mind responded with vigor to its new work.

When General Toombs arrived at Washington, Ga., he consulted some of his friends over the advisability
of returning to the practice of law, which he had left twenty-five years before. Their advice
was against it. Things were in chaos; the people were impoverished, and the custodians of the
courts were the creatures of a hostile government. But Robert Toombs was made of different
stuff. Associating himself in the practice of his profession with General Dudley M. DuBose,
who had been his chief of staff, and was his son-in-law, an able and popular man in the full
vigor of manhood, General Toombs returned actively to the practice of law. He was not long
in turning to practical account his great abilities. Success soon claimed him as an old favorite.
Business accumulated and the ex-senator and soldier found himself once more at the head of
the bar of Georgia. Large fees were readily commanded. He was employed in important cases in
every part of Georgia, and the announcement that Robert Toombs was to appear before judge and
jury was enough to draw large crowds from city and country. His old habits of indomitable industry
returned. He rode the circuits like a young barrister again. He was a close collector of claims,
an admirable administrator, a safe counselor, and a bold and fearless advocate. In a short
time General Toombs' family found themselves once more in comfort, and he was the same power
with the people that he had always been.

Cut off from all hope of official promotion, scorning to sue for political pardon, he strove
to wield in the courts some of the power he forfeited in politics. He figured largely in cases
of a public nature, and became an outspoken tribune of the people. He did not hesitate to face
the Supreme Court of Georgia, then made up of Republican judges, and attack the laws of a Republican
legislature. Among the bills passed at that time to popularize the legislature with the people,
was a series of liberal homestead and exemption laws. They were the relief measures of 1868.
By these schemes, at once rigorous and sweeping, millions of dollars were lost in Georgia.
They were intended to wipe out old debts, especially contracts made during the war, and Governor
Bullock had appointed a Supreme Court which sustained them. These laws were abhorrent to Toombs.
He thundered against them with all the powers of his learning and eloquence. When he arose
in court, there stood with him, he believed, not only the cause of his client, but the honor
of the whole State of Georgia. It was much easier to seduce a poverty-stricken people by offering
them measures of relief than to drive them by the bayonet or to subject them to African domination.
In the case of Hardeman against Downer, in June, 1868, he declared before the Supreme Court
that these homestead laws put a premium on dishonesty and robbed the poor man of his capital.
"But we must consider the intention of the Act," said the Court. "Was it not the intention
of the legislature to prevent the collection of just such claims as these you now bring?" "Yes,
may it please the Court," said Toombs, shaking his leonine locks, "there can be no doubt that
it was the intention of the legislature to defraud the creditor; but they have failed to put
their intention in a form that would stand, so it becomes necessary for this Court to add its
own ingenuity to this villainy. It seems that this Court is making laws rather than decisions."

In one of his dissenting opinions upon these laws, Justice Hiram Warner declared that he would
not allow his name to go down to posterity steeped in the infamy of such a decision. General
Toombs lost his case, but the decision was subsequently overruled by the Supreme Court of the
United States.

The times were full of evil. The legislature was dominated by adventurers and ignorant men,
and public credit was freely voted away to new enterprises. The State was undeveloped, and
this wholesale system of public improvement became popular. Unworthy men were scrambling for
public station, and the times were out of tune. In the midst of this demoralization Toombs
was a pillar of fire. He was tireless in his withering satire, his stinging invective, his
uncompromising war upon the misgovernment of the day.

Here was a fine field and a rare occasion for his pungent criticism and denunciation. His utterances
were not those of a political leader. He was not trimming his sails for office. He did not
shape his conduct so as to be considered an available man by the North. He fought error wherever
he saw it. He made no terms with those whom he considered public enemies. He denounced radicalism
as a "leagued scoundrelism of private gain and public plunder."

In opposing the issue of State bonds to aid a certain railroad, he declared that if the legislature
saddled this debt upon the taxpayers, their act would be a nullity. "We will adopt a new constitution
with a clause repudiating these bonds, and like Ætna spew the monstrous frauds out of the market!"

"You may," he said, "by your deep-laid schemes, lull the thoughtless, enlist the selfish, and
stifle for a while the voices of patriots, but the day of reckoning will come. These cormorant
corporations, these so-called patriotic developers, whom you seek to exempt, shall pay their
dues, if justice lives. By the Living God, they shall pay them."

"Georgia shall pay her debts," said Toombs on one occasion. "If she does not, I will pay them
for her!" This piece of hyperbole was softened by the fact that on two occasions, when the
State needed money to supply deficits, Toombs with other Georgians did come forward and lift
the pressure. Sometimes he talked in a random way, but responsibility always sobered him. He
was impatient of fraud and stupidity, often full of exaggerations, but scrupulous when the
truth was relevant. Always strict and honorable in his engagements, he boasted that he never
had a dirty shilling in his pocket.

The men who "left the country for the country's good" and came South to fatten on the spoils
of reconstruction, furnished unending targets for his satire. He declared that these so-called
developers came for pelf, not patriotism. "Why, these men," he said, "are like thieving elephants.
They will uproot an oak or pick up a pin. They would steal anything from a button to an empire."
On one occasion he was bewailing the degeneracy of the times, and he exclaimed: "I am sorry
I have got so much sense. I see into the tricks of these public men too quickly. When God Almighty
moves me from the earth, he will take away a heap of experience. I expect when a man gets to
be seventy he ought to go, for he knows too much for other people's convenience."

"I hope the Lord will allow me to go to heaven as a gentleman," he used to say. "Some of these
Georgia politicians I do not want to associate with. I would like to associate with Socrates
and Shakespeare."

During his arguments before the Supreme Court, General Toombs used to abuse the Governor and
the Bullock Legislature very roundly. The Court adopted a rule that no lawyer should be allowed,
while conducting his case, to abuse a coördinate branch of the government. General Toombs was
informed that if he persisted in this practice he would be held for contempt. The next time
Toombs went before the Court he alluded to the fugitive Governor in very sharp terms. "May
it please your Honors, the Governor has now absconded. Your Honors have put in a little rule
to catch me. In seeking to protect the powers that be, I presume you did not intend to defend
the powers that were."

The papers printed an account of an interview between General Gordon and Mr. Tilden in 1880,
Gordon told Tilden that he was sorry he could not impart to Tilden some of his own strength
and vitality. "So my brother told me last year," answered Mr. Tilden. "I have since followed
him to the grave." Toombs read this and remarked that Tilden did not think he was going to
die. "No one expects to die but I. I have got sense enough to know that I am bound to die."

On one occasion Toombs was criticising an appointment made by an unpopular official. "But,
General," someone said, "you must confess that it was a good appointment." "That may be, but
that was not the reason it was made. Bacon was not accused of selling injustice. He was eternally
damned for selling justice."

General Toombs was once asked in a crowd in the Kimball House in Atlanta what he thought of
the North. "My opinion of the Yankees is apostolic. Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil.
The Lord reward him according to his works." A Federal officer was standing in the crowd. He
said: "Well, General, we whipped you, anyhow." "No," replied Toombs, "we just wore ourselves
out whipping you."

He spoke of the spoliators in the State Legislature as "an assembly of manikins whose object
is never higher than their breeches pockets; seekers of jobs and judgeships, anything for pap
or plunder, an amalgamation of white rogues and blind negroes, gouging the treasury and disgracing
Georgia."

He was a violent foe of exemptions, of bounties, and of all sorts of corruption and fraud.
He was overbearing at times, but not more conscious of power than of honesty in its use. He
was generous to the weak. It was in defense of his ideas of justice that he overbore opposition.

General Toombs kept the issues before the people. He had no patience with the tentative policy.
He forfeited much of his influence at this time by his indiscriminate abuse of Northern men
and Southern opponents, and his defiance of all the conditions of a restored Union. He could
have served his people best by more conservative conduct, but he had all the roughness and
acerbity of a reformer, dead in earnest. It was owing to his constant arraignment of illegal
acts of the post-bellum régime that the people finally aroused, in 1870, and regained the State
for white supremacy and Democratic government. He challenged the authors of the Reconstruction
measures to discuss the constitutionality of the amendments. Charles J. Jenkins had already
carried the cause of Georgia into the courts, and Linton Stephens, before United States Commissioner
Swayze in Macon, had made an exhaustive argument upon the whole subject. Toombs forced these
issues constantly into his cases, and kept public interest at white heat.

CHAPTER XXVII.

DAYS OF RECONSTRUCTION

In July, 1868, the people of Georgia made the first determined stand against the Republican
party. John B. Gordon was nominated for Governor, and Seymour and Blair had been named in New
York as National Democratic standard-bearers. A memorable meeting was held in Atlanta. It was
the first real rally of the white people under the new order of things. Robert Toombs, Howell
Cobb, and Benjamin H. Hill addressed the multitude. There was much enthusiasm, and crowds gathered
from every part of Georgia. This was the great "Bush Arbor meeting" of that year, and old men
and boys speak of it to-day with kindling ardor. "Few people," said Toombs in that speech,
"had escaped the horrors of war, and fewer still the stern and bitter curse of civil war. The
histories of the greatest peoples of earth have been filled with defeats as well as victories,
suffering as well as happiness, shame and reproach as well as honor and glory. The struggles
of the great and good are the noblest legacies left by the past to the present generation,
trophies worthy to be laid at the feet of Jehovah himself. Those whose blades glittered in
the foremost ranks of the Northern army on the battlefield, with a yet higher and nobler purpose
denounce the base uses to which the victory has been applied. The old shibboleths of victory
are proclaimed as living principles. Whatever else may be lost, the principles of Magna Charta
have survived the conflict of arms. The edicts of the enemy abolish all securities of life,
liberty, and property; defeat all the rightful purposes of government, and renounce all remedies,
all laws.["]

General Toombs denounced the incompetency of the dominant party in Georgia--"In its tyranny,
its corruption, its treachery to the Caucasian race, its patronage of vice, of fraud, of crime
and criminals, its crime against humanity and in its efforts to subordinate the safeguards
of public security and to uproot the foundations of free government it has forfeited all claims
upon a free people."

Alluding to General Longstreet, who had been a member of the Republican party, General Toombs
said: "I would not have him tarnish his own laurels. I respect his courage, honor his devotion
to his cause, and regret his errors." He denounced the ruling party of Georgia as a mass of
floating putrescence, "which rises as it rots and rots as it rises." He declared that the Reconstruction
Acts "stared out in their naked deformity, open to the indignant gaze of all honest men."

The campaign at that time was made upon the illegality of the amendments to the Constitution.
Enthusiasm was fed by the fiery and impetuous invective of Toombs. The utterances of most public
men were guarded and conservative. But when Toombs spoke the people realized that he uttered
the convictions of an unshackled mind and a fearless spirit. Leaders deprecated his extreme
views, but the hustings rang with his ruthless candor.

The conclusion of his Bush Arbor effort was a fine sample of his fervid speech: "All these
and many more wrongs have been heaped upon you, my countrymen, without your consent. Your consent
alone can give the least validity to these usurpations. Let no power on earth wring that consent
from you. Take no counsel of fear; it is the meanest of masters; spurn the temptations of office
from the polluted hands of your oppressors. He who owns only his own sepulcher at the price
of such claims holds a heritage of shame. Unite with the National Democratic party. Your country
says come; honor says come; duty says come; liberty says come; the country is in danger; let
every freeman hasten to the rescue."

It was at this meeting that Benjamin H. Hill, who made so much reputation by the publication
of a series of papers entitled, "Notes on the Situation," delivered one of the most memorable
speeches of his life. It was a moving, overmastering appeal to the people to go to the polls.
When this oration was over, the audience was almost wild, and Robert Toombs, standing on the
platform, in his enthusiasm threw his hat away into the delighted throng. A young bright-faced
boy picked it up and carried it back to the speakers' stand. It was Henry Grady.

The defeat of the National Democratic party in 1868 disheartened the Southern people, and the
old disinclination to take part in politics seized them stronger than before. In 1870, however,
General Toombs delivered, in different parts of Georgia, a carefully prepared lecture on the
Principles of Magna Charta. It was just the reverse in style and conception to his fervid Bush
Arbor oration. It was submitted to manuscript and was read from notes at the speakers' stand.
With the possible exception of his Tremont Temple lecture, delivered in Boston in 1856, it
was the only one of his public addresses so carefully prepared and so dispassionately delivered.
In his opinion the principles of free government were drifting away from old landmarks. The
times were out of joint, the people were demoralized. The causes which afterward led to the
great revolt in the Republican ranks in 1872 were already marked in the quick perception of
Toombs, and this admirable state paper was framed to put the issue before the public in a sober,
statesmanlike way, and to draw the people back to their old moorings. This lecture was delivered
in all the large cities and many of the smaller towns of Georgia, and had a great effect. Already
there had been concerted appeal to Georgians to cease this political opposition and "accept
the situation." Even statesmen like Mr. Hill had come round to the point of advising the people
to abandon "dead issues." The situation was more desperate than ever.

In his Magna Charta lecture Mr. Toombs said that Algernon Sidney had summed up the object of
all human wisdom as the good government of the people. "From the earliest ages to the present
time," said he, "there has been a continued contest between the wise and the virtuous who wish
to secure good government and the corrupt who were unwilling to grant it. The highest duty
of every man, a duty enjoined by God, was the service of his country." This was the great value
of the victory at Runnymede, with its rich fruits--that rights should be respected and that
justice should be done. "These had never been denied for seven hundred years, until the present
evil days," said Toombs. Magna Charta had been overridden and trampled underfoot by brave tyrants
and evaded by cowardly ones. There had been ingenious schemes to destroy it. The men of '76
fought for Magna Charta. These principles had been prominent in our Constitution until a Republican
majority attempted destruction and civil war. Kings had made efforts to destroy its power and
subvert its influence. Not a single noble family existed in England but which had lost a member
in its defense. Society was organized to protect it, and all good and true men are required
to maintain its teachings. "The assassins of liberty are now in power, but a reaction is coming.
Stand firm, make no compromise, have nothing to do with men who talk of dead issues. It is
the shibboleth of ruin. Push forward, and make a square fight for your liberties."

The plain but powerful summary of public obligation had a more lasting effect than his more
fiery appeals. General Toombs was a potent leader in the campaign, though not himself a candidate
or even a voter. General D. M. DuBose, his law partner, was elected to Congress this year,
and the Democratic party secured a majority in the State Legislature. Among the men who shared
in the redemption of the State Robert Toombs was the first and most conspicuous.

Some of the best speeches made by General Toombs at this time were delivered to the farmers
at the various agricultural fairs. These were frequent and, as Judge Reese declared, abounded
with wisdom which caused him years of reflection and observation. He had been reared upon a
farm. His interests, as his sympathies, were with these people. He remained in active management
of his large plantation, Roanoke, in Stewart County, during the period when he was a member
of Congress and even when he was in the army. Two or three times a year he made visits to that
place and was always in close communication with his overseers. He loved the work and was a
successful farmer. A fondness for gardening and stock-raising remained with him until his last
years. Even in a very busy and tempestuous life, as he characterized it in speaking to Judge
Reese, a spacious garden, with orchards and vineyards, was to him an unfailing source of recreation
and pleasure.

He writes to his wife of the disasters of the army at Orange Court House, Va., but finds time
to add: "The gardens and fruit are great additions to the family comfort, and every effort
should be made to put them in the best condition." Writing from Richmond of the condition of
Lee's army in March, 1862, he does not forget to add: "I am sorry to know that the prospects
of the crops are so bad. One of the best reliances now is the garden. Manure high, work well,
and keep planting vegetables." From Roanoke, in 1863, he writes; "My plantation affairs are
not in as good condition as I would wish. I have lost a great many sheep, have but few lambs
and little wool; cattle poor--all need looking after." In the midst of the shelling of Atlanta
in 1864, he writes from the trenches to his wife: "Tell Squire to put your cows and Gabriel's
in the volunteer oatfield. Every day we hear cannonading in front."

It was in 1869 that General Toombs made one of his great speeches at the State fair in Columbus,
in the course of which he used this expression; "The farmers of Georgia will never enjoy general
prosperity until they quit making the West their corncrib and smokehouse." It was in that same
speech that Toombs said, referring to the soldiers of the South; "Liberty, in its last analysis,
is but the sweat of the poor and the blood of the brave." Most of the great men in Georgia
have been reared in the country. There seems to be something in the pure air, the broad fields,
and even the solitude, conducive to vigor and self-reliance. Attrition and culture have finished
the work laid up by the farmer boy, and that fertile section of middle Georgia, so rich in
products of the earth, has given greatness to the State.

In August, 1872, General Toombs was invited by the alumni of the University of Georgia to deliver
the annual address during commencement week. A large crowd was in attendance and the veteran
orator received an ovation. He departed from his usual custom and attempted to read a written
speech. His eyesight had begun to fail him, the formation of a cataract having been felt with
great inconvenience. The pages of the manuscript became separated and General Toombs, for the
first time in his life, is said to have been embarrassed. He had not read more than one quarter
of his speech when this complication was discovered, and he was unable to find the missing
sheets. Governor Jenkins, who was sitting on the stage, whispered to him; "Toombs, throw away
your manuscript and go it on general principles." The general took off his glasses, stuffed
the mixed essay into his pocket, and advanced to the front of the stage. He was received with
a storm of applause from the crowd, who had relished his discomfiture and were delighted with
the thought of an old-time talk from Toombs. For half an hour he made one of his eloquent and
electric speeches, and when he sat down the audience screamed for more. No one but Toombs could
have emerged so brilliantly from this awkward dilemma.

General Toombs opposed the nomination of Horace Greeley for President by the National Democratic
convention in 1872. Mr. Stephens edited the Atlanta Sun, and these two friends once more joined
their great powers to prevent the consummation of what they regarded as a vast political mistake.
Greeley carried the State by a very reduced majority.

In January, 1873, when Mr. Stephens was defeated for the United States Senate by General John
B. Gordon, General Toombs called a meeting of the leaders of the eighth district in his room
at the Kimball House in Atlanta, and nominated his friend Alexander Stephens for Congress.
He needed no other indorsement. He was elected and reëlected, and remained in Congress until
he resigned in 1882, to become Governor of Georgia. Toombs and Stephens never lost their lead
as dictators in Georgia politics.

The man in Georgia who suffered most frequently from the criticism of General Toombs during
this eventful period was ex-Governor Joseph E. Brown. His position in taking his place in the
Republican party, in accepting office, and separating himself from his old friends and allies,
brought down upon him the opprobrium of most of the people. It was at a time when Charles J.
Jenkins had carried away the great seal of Georgia and refused to surrender it to a hostile
government. It was at a time when Linton Stephens, the most vigorous as the most popular public
man during the reconstruction period, was endeavoring to arouse the people. Governor Brown's
apostasy was unfortunate. No man was then more execrated by the people who had honored him.
His name, for a while, was a byword and a reproach. Mr. Stephens defended his position as conscientious
if not consistent, and gave Governor Brown the credit for the purity as well as the courage
of his convictions. Governor Brown bore the contumely with patience. He contended that he could
best serve the State by assuming functions that must otherwise be placed in hostile hands,
and his friends declare to-day that in accepting the amendments to the Constitution he simply
occupied in advance the ground to which the party and the people were forced to come. But his
position did not compare favorably with that of the prominent Georgians of that day.

The relations of Governor Brown and General Toombs continued strained. The latter never lost
an opportunity to upbraid him in public or in private, and some of his keenest thrusts were
aimed at the plodding figure of his old friend and ally, as it passed on its lonely way through
the shadows of its long probation.

On one occasion in Atlanta, in July, 1872, General Toombs among other things referred to a
lobby at the legislature in connection with a claim for the Mitchel heirs. Governor Brown had
remained quiet during his long political ostracism, but he turned upon his accuser now with
unlooked-for severity. He answered the charge by declaring that if Toombs accused him of lobbying
this claim, he was an "unscrupulous liar." The reply did not attract much attention until it
became known that General Toombs had sent a friend to Governor Brown to know if the latter
would accept a challenge. Colonel John C. Nicholls was the friend, and Governor Brown returned
the answer that when he received the challenge he would let him know. General Toombs did not
push the matter further. The affair took the form of a newspaper controversy, which was conducted
with much acrimony on both sides. Colonel Nicholls stated in print his belief that Governor
Brown would not have accepted a challenge but would have used it to Toombs' injury before the
people. The prospect of a duel between these two old men created a sensation at the time. It
would have been a shock to the public sense of propriety to have allowed such a meeting. It
would never have been permitted; but Governor Brown seems to have been determined to put the
issue to the touch. He had prepared his resignation as a deacon of the Baptist Church, and
had placed his house in order. He seemed to realize that this was the turning-point of his
career, and there is no doubt that General Toombs gave him the opportunity to appear in a better
light than he had done for a long time; this incident was the beginning of his return to popularity
and influence in Georgia. General Toombs was censured for provoking Governor Brown into the
attitude of expecting a challenge and then declining to send it.

Both General Toombs and Mr. Stephens were believers in the code of honor. Mr. Stephens once
challenged Governor Herschel V. Johnson, and at another time he called out Hon. Benjamin H.
Hill. General Toombs peremptorily challenged General D. H. Hill after the battle of Malvern
Hill. In 1859, when United States Senator Broderick was killed by Judge Terry in California,
Mr. Toombs delivered a striking eulogy of Broderick in the United States Senate. He said; "The
dead man fell in honorable contest under a code which he fully recognized. While I lament his
sad fate, I have no censure for him or his adversary. I think that no man under any circumstances
can have a more enviable death than to fall in vindication of his honor. He has gone beyond
censure or praise. He has passed away from man's judgment to the bar of the Judge of all the
Earth."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

HIS LAST PUBLIC SERVICE.

One of the reforms advocated by General Toombs upon the return of the white people to the control
of the State Government was the adoption of a new State Constitution. He never tired of declaring
that the organic law of 1868 was the product of "aliens and usurpers," and that he would have
none of it; Georgia must be represented by her own sons in council and live under a constitution
of her own making. In May, 1877, an election was held to determine the question, and in spite
of considerable opposition, even in the Democratic party, the people decided, by nine thousand
majority, to have a constitutional convention.

On July 10, 1877, that body, consisting of 194 delegates, assembled in Atlanta to revise the
organic law. Charles J. Jenkins was elected president of the convention. He had been deposed
from the office of Governor of Georgia at the point of the bayonet in 1866. He had carried
the case of the State of Georgia before the national Supreme Court and contested the validity
of the Reconstruction measures. He had carried with him, when expelled from the State Capitol,
the great seal of the State, which he restored when the government was again remitted to his
own people, and in public session of the two houses of the General Assembly, Governor Jenkins
had been presented with a facsimile of the great seal, with the fitting words cut into its
face, "In Arduis Fidelis." These words are graven on his monument to-day. He was more than
seventy years of age, but bore himself with vigor and ability. There was a strong representation
of the older men who had served the State before the war, and the younger members were in full
sympathy with them. It was an unusual body of men--possibly the ablest that had assembled since
the secession convention of 1861. General Toombs, of course, was the most prominent. He had
been elected a delegate from his senatorial district--the only office he had occupied since
the war. His activity in securing its call, his striking presence, as he walked to his seat,
clad in his long summer duster, carrying his brown straw hat and his unlighted cigar, as well
as his tireless labors in that body, made him the center of interest. General Toombs was chairman
of the committee on legislation and chairman of the final committee on revision. This body
was made up of twenty-six of the most prominent members of the convention, and to it were submitted
the reports of the other thirteen committees. It was the duty of this committee to harmonize
and digest the various matters coming before it, and to prepare the final report, which was
discussed in open convention. General Toombs was practically in charge of the whole business
of this body. He closely attended all the sessions of the convention, which lasted each day
from 8.30 in the morning to 1 o'clock P. M. The entire afternoons were taken up with the important
and exacting work of his committee of final revision. Frequently it was far into the night
before he and his clerk had prepared their reports. General Toombs was in his sixty-eighth
year, but stood the ordeal well. His facility, his endurance, his genius, his eloquence and
pertinacity were revelations to the younger men, who knew him mainly by tradition. General
Toombs proposed the only safe and proper course for the convention when he arose in his place
on the floor and declared; "All this convention has to do is to establish a few fundamental
principles and leave the other matters to the legislature and the people, in order to meet
the ever varying affairs of human life." There was a persistent tendency to legislate upon
details, a tendency which could not be entirely kept down. There was an element elected to
this convention bent upon retrenchment and reform, and these delegates forced a long debate
upon lowering the salaries of public officers, a policy which finally prevailed. During the
progress of this debate General Toombs arose impatiently in his place and declared that, "The
whole finances of the State are not included when we are speaking of the Governor's salary,
and you spend more in talking about it than your children will have to pay in forty years."

Occasionally he was betrayed into one of his erratic positions, as when he moved to strike
out the section against dueling, and also to expunge from the bill of rights all restrictions
upon bearing arms. He said: "Let the people bear arms for their own protection, whether in
their boots or wherever they may choose."

But his treatment of public questions was full of sound sense and discretion. He warned the
convention that those members who, from hostility to the State administration, wished to wipe
out the terms of the office-holders and make a new deal upon the adoption of the new constitution,
were making a rash mistake. They would array a new class of enemies and imperil the passage
of the new law. He advocated the submission of all doubtful questions, like the homestead laws
and the location of the new Capitol, to the people in separate ordinances. He urged in eloquent
terms the enlargement of the Supreme Court from three justices to five. Having been a champion
of the law calling that Court into being forty years before, he knew its needs and proposed
a reform which, if adopted, would have cut off much trouble in Georgia to-day.

General Toombs was an advocate of the ordinance which took the selection of the judges and
solicitors from the hands of the Governor and made them elective by the General Assembly. A
strong element in the convention wanted the judiciary elected by the people. A member of the
convention turned to General Toombs during the debate and said; "You dare not refuse the people
this right to select their own judges." "I dare do anything that is right," replied Toombs.
"It is not a reproach to the people to say that they are not able to do all the work of a complex
government. Government is the act of the people after all." He reminded the convention that
a new and ignorant element had been thrown in among the people as voters. "We must not only
protect ourselves against them, but in behalf of the poor African," said he, "I would save
him from himself. These people are kind, and affectionate, but their previous condition, whether
by your fault or not, was such as to disqualify them from exercising the right of self-government.
They were put upon us by people to make good government impossible in the South for all time,
and before God, I believe they have done it."

In answer to the argument that those States which had given the selection of judges to the
people liked it, General Toombs replied that this did not prove that it was right or best.
"It is easy to take the road to hell, but few people ever return from it." General Toombs prevailed
in this point. He was also the author of the resolution authorizing the legislature to levy
a tax to furnish good substantial artificial limbs to those who had lost them during the war.

General Toombs declared frequently during the debate that one of his main objects in going
to the convention, and for urging the people to vote for the call, was to place a clause in
the new law prohibiting the policy of State aid to railroads and public enterprises. He had
seen monstrous abuses grow up under this system. He had noticed that the railroads built by
private enterprise had proven good investments; that no railroad aided by the State had paid
a dividend. He declared that Georgia had never loaned her credit from the time when Oglethorpe
landed at Yamacraw up to 1866, and she should never do it again. He wanted this license buried
and buried forever. His policy prevailed. State aid to railroads was prohibited; corporate
credit cannot now be loaned to public enterprises, and municipal taxation was wisely restricted.
General Toombs declared with satisfaction that he had locked the door of the treasury, and
put the key into the pocket of the people.

During the proceedings of this convention an effort was made to open the courts to review the
cases of certain outlawed bonds, which the legislature had refused to pay, and which the people
had repudiated by constitutional amendment. Impressed by the conviction that certain classes
of these bonds should be paid, the venerable president of the convention surrendered the chair
and pled from his place on the floor for a judicial review of this question.

No sooner was this solemn and urgent appeal concluded than General Toombs bounded to the floor.
He declared with energy that no power of heaven or hell could bind him to pay these bonds.
The contract was one of bayonet usurpation. Within a few days the legislature had loaded the
State down with from ten to fifteen millions of the "bogus bonds."

The term "repudiation" was distasteful to many. The bondholders did not relish it; but he thought
it was a good honest word. No one was bound by these contracts, because they were not the acts
of the people. "I have examined all the facts pertaining to these claims," said Toombs, "and
looking to nothing but the State's integrity, I affirm that the matter shall go no further
without my strenuous opposition. The legislature has again and again declared the claims fraudulent.
The people have spoken. Let the bonds die." The convention agreed with Toombs.

On the 16th of August the convention, then in the midst of its labors, confronted a crisis.
The appropriation of $25,000 made by the legislature to meet the expenses of the convention
had been exhausted, and the State Treasurer notified the president that he could not honor
his warrants any further. This was a practical problem. The work mapped out had not been half
done. Many of the delegates were poor men from the rural districts and were especially dependent
upon their per diem during the dull summer season. To proceed required about $1000 per day.
To have crippled this body in its labors would have been a public calamity. To check upon the
public treasury beyond the limit fixed by law involved a risk which the State Government, not
too friendly toward the convention at best, declined to assume. To raise the money outside
by a private loan presented this risk, that in the case of the rejection of the constitution,
then in embryo, the lender might find himself the holder of an uncertain claim. The convention,
however, was not left long in doubt. With a heroic and patriotic abandon, General Toombs declared
that if Georgia would not pay her debts, he would pay them for her. Selling a dozen or two
United States bonds, he placed the proceeds to the credit of the president of the convention,
who was authorized in turn to issue notes of $1000 each and deposit them with General Toombs.
The act was spontaneous, whole-souled, dramatic. It saved the convention and rehabilitated
the State with a new constitution. By a rising and unanimous vote General Toombs was publicly
thanked for his public-spirited act, and the old man, alone remaining in his seat in the convention
hall, covered his face with his hands, and shed tears during this unusual demonstration.

When the convention had under review the bill of rights, General Toombs created a breeze in
the proceedings by proposing a paragraph that the legislature should make no irrevocable grants
of special privileges or immunities. The proposition received a rattling fire from all parts
of the house. Governor Jenkins assailed it on the floor as dangerous to capital and fatal to
public enterprise. It was argued that charters were contracts, and that when railroads or other
interests were put upon notice that their franchise was likely to be disturbed, there would
be an overthrow of confidence and development in Georgia. This was the first intimation of
the master struggle which General Toombs was about to make, an advance against the corporations
all along the line. It was the picket-firing before the engagement.

General Toombs had made a study of the whole railroad question. He was a master of the law
of corporations. He maintained a peculiar attitude toward them. He never invested a dollar
in their stock, nor would he accept a place at their council boards. He rarely ever served
them as attorney. When the General Assembly resolved to tax railroads in Georgia, the State
selected General Toombs to prosecute the cases. In 1869 he had argued the Collins case against
the Central Railroad and Banking Company, in which the court had sustained his position that
the proposed action of the Central Road in buying up the stock of the Atlantic and Gulf Railroad,
to control that road, was ultra vires. He had conducted the case of Arnold DuBose against the
Georgia Railroad for extortion in freight charges.

The principles he had gleaned from this laborious record made him resolve to place restrictions
upon corporate power in the new constitution. The time was ripe for this movement. The Granger
legislation in the West had planted in the organic law of Illinois, Ohio, and Missouri the
policy of government control over the railroads. The statutes of Pennsylvania also reflected
the same principles, and the Supreme Court of the United States had decided this great case
on the side of the people. General Toombs was master of the legislation on this subject in
England, and had studied the American reports on the right and duty of the state to regulate
railroad companies. He declared, in proposing this new system, that these laws had been adopted
by the most enlightened governments of the world. "From the days of the Roman Empire down to
the present time," said Toombs, "it has never been denied that the state has power over the
corporations."

At once the State was in an uproar. "Toombs is attempting a new revolution," was alleged. He
was charged with leading an idolatrous majority into war upon the rights of property. Conservative
men like Jenkins deprecated the agitation. Atlanta was filled with a powerful railroad lobby,
and the press resounded with warning that development of the waste places of Georgia would
be retarded by this unjust and nefarious warfare. Robert Toombs was not an agrarian. His movement
against the corporations was reënforced by delegates from the small towns in Georgia, who had
suffered from discrimination in favor of the larger cities. Railroad traffic had been diverted
by rigid and ruthless exactions, and a coterie of delegates from southwest Georgia stood solidly
by Toombs. These debates drew crowds of listeners. From the galleries hundreds of interested
Georgians looked down upon the last public service of Robert Toombs. He never appeared to finer
advantage. His voice lacked its old-time ring, his beard was gray and his frame was bent, but
he was fearless, aggressive, alert, eloquent. He was master of the whole subject. Railways,
he declared, were public highways. Upon no other principle could they receive land from the
State, under its right of eminent domain, than that this land was condemned for public and
not for private use. A public highway means that it must be used according to law. In those
States where people have been fighting the encroachments of public monopolies, it had been
found necessary to use these terms, and Toombs prefaced his agitation with this announcement.

General Toombs did not mince matters. He declared that the rapacious course of the railroads
in Georgia had been spoliation. Monopoly is extortion. Corporations must either be governed
by the law or they will override the law. Competition is liberty. Keep the hand of the law
on corporations and you keep up competition; keep up competition and you preserve liberty.
It has been argued that the towns and counties in Georgia had grown rich. That is the same
argument that was made in the English Parliament. They said; "Look at your little colonies,
how they have grown under our care." But the patriotic men of America said; "We have grown
rich in spite of your oppressions." Shall we not restrain this tax-gatherer who has no judge
but himself, no limit but his avarice?

General Toombs wanted it placed in the constitution that the legislature shall pass these laws
restricting railroads. He declared he had twice drawn bills for that purpose; they had passed
the House, but crumbled as though touched with the hand of death when they came to the forty-four
(the Senate). "What," said he, "do I see before me? The grave. What beyond that? Starving millions
of our posterity, that I have robbed by my action here, in giving them over to the keeping
of these corporations. The right to control these railroads belongs to the State, to the people,
and as long as I represent the people, I will not consent to surrender it, so help me God!"

The spirit of Toombs dominated that convention. Men moved up the aisle to take their seats
at his feet as he poured out his strong appeal. One-half of that body was filled with admiration,
the other half with alarm. "It is a sacred thing to shake the pillars upon which the property
of the country rests," said Mr. Hammond of Fulton. "Better shake the pillars of property than
the pillars of liberty," answered this Georgia Sampson, with his thews girt for the fray. "The
great question is, Shall Georgia govern the corporations or the corporations govern Georgia?
Choose ye this day whom ye shall serve!"

The house rang with applause. Members clustered about the old man as about the form of a prophet.
The majority was with him. The articles which he had advocated came from the committee without
recommendation, but they were substantially adopted, and are now parts of the supreme law of
the land. The victory was won, and Robert Toombs, grim and triumphant, closed his legislative
career, and claimed this work as the crowning act of his public labors.

These principles are contained in Article IV. of the State constitution of Georgia. It declares
the right of taxation to be sovereign, inviolable, and indestructible, and that it shall be
irrevocable by the State; that the power to regulate freight and passenger tariffs and to prevent
unjust discriminations shall be conferred upon the General Assembly, whose duty it shall be
to pass laws for the same; that the right of eminent domain shall never be abridged; that any
amendment to a charter shall bring the charter under the provisions of the Constitution; that
the General Assembly shall have no authority to authorize any corporation to buy shares of
stock in any other corporation, which shall have the effect to lessen competition or encourage
monopoly. No railroad shall pay a rebate or bonus.

Under these provisions, the Railroad Commission of Georgia was organized in 1879. This idea,
as it finally worked out, was General Toombs'. He did not favor fixing the rates in the law,
but the creation of such a commission to carry out these provisions. The present law was framed
by Judge William M. Reese, Hon. Samuel Barnett, Ex-Senator H. D. McDaniel, and Superintendent
Foreacre of the Richmond and Danville Railroad. It has worked well in Georgia. Twice has the
legislature attempted to remodel it, but the people have rallied to its support and have not
permitted it to be amended in so much as a single clause. It has served as an example for imitation
by other States, and was cited as strong authority in Congress for the creation of the Inter-State
Commerce Law. The railroad men, after fighting it for ten years, have come round to acknowledge
its value. It has stood as a breakwater between the corporations and the people. It has guaranteed
justice to the citizen, and has worked no injury to the railroads. Under its wise provisions
Georgia has prospered, and leads the Union to-day in railroad building. And when, during a
recent session of the legislature, an attempt was made to war upon railroad consolidation,
the saving, overmastering, crowning argument of the railroads themselves was that General Toombs
had already secured protection for the people, and that, under his masterly handiwork, the
rights of property and the rights of the people were safe.

When the convention had concluded its labors, General Toombs went before the people and threw
himself with enthusiasm into the canvass. He took the stump, and everywhere his voice was heard
in favor of the adoption of the new organic law. Many of the officers whose term had been cut
off, and whose salaries had been reduced, appeared against the constitution. General Toombs
declared that those public men who did not approve of the lower salaries might "pour them back
in the jug." This homely phrase became a by-word in the canvass. It had its origin in this
way: In the Creek war, in which "Capt. Robert A. Toombs" commanded a company made up of volunteers
from Wilkes, Elbert, and Lincoln counties, a negro named Kinch went along as whisky sutler.
As he served out the liquor, some of the soldiers complained of the price he asked. His answer
was, "Well, sir, if you don't like it, sir, pour it back in the jug."

In the State election of December, 1877, the new constitution was overwhelmingly adopted, and
will remain for generations the organic law of the Empire State of the South.

CHAPTER XXIX.

DOMESTIC LIFE OF TOOMBS.

There never was a public man in America whose home life was more beautiful or more tender than
that of Robert Toombs. As great as were his public virtues, his lofty character, and abilities,
his domestic virtues were more striking still. He was a man who loved his family. In 1830 he
was married to Julia A. Dubose, with whom he lived, a model and devoted husband, for more than
fifty years. She was a lady of rare personal beauty, attractive manners, and common sense.
She shared his early struggles, and watched the lawyer grow into the statesman and the leader
with unflagging confidence and love. There was never a time that he would not leave his practice
or his public life to devote himself to her. His heart yearned for her during his long separation
in Washington, when, during the debate upon the great Compromise measures of 1850, he wrote
that he would rather see her than "save the State." He considered her in a thousand ways. He
never disappointed her in coming home, but, when traveling, always returned when it was possible,
just at the time he had promised. During the exciting scenes attending his first election to
the United States Senate, he writes that he feels too little interest in the result perhaps
for his success, and longs to be at home. Political honors did not draw him away from his devotion
to this good woman. He never neglected her in the smallest way. His attentions were as pointed
and courtly in her last days as when they were bright-faced boy and girl, lovers and cousins,
in the twenties. During his labors in the constitutional convention of 1877, he one day wore
upon his lapel a flower she had placed there, and stopping in his speech, paid fitting tribute
to the pure emblem of a woman's love. A man of great deeds and great temptations, of great
passions and of glaring faults, he never swerved in loyalty to his wedded love, and no influence
ever divided his allegiance there. Writing to her on May 15, 1853, while he was United States
Senator, he says:

      MY DEAR JULIA:

      This is your birthday, which you bid me remember, and this
      letter will show you that I have not forgotten it. To-day
      Gus Baldwin and Dr. Harbin dropped in to dinner, and we
      drank your good health and many more returns in health and
      happiness of the 15th of May. I did not tell them that you
      were forty, for it might be that some time or other you
      would not care to have them know it, and I am sure they
      would never suspect it unless told. In truth I can scarcely
      realize it myself, as you are the same lovely and loving,
      true-hearted woman to me, that you were when I made you my
      bride, nearly twenty-three years ago. There is no other
      change except the superior loveliness of the full blown
      over the budding rose. I have thrown my mind this quiet
      Sunday evening over that large segment of human life
      (twenty-three years) since we were married, and whatever of
      happiness memory has treasured up clusters around you. In
      life's struggle I have been what men call fortunate. I have
      won its wealth and its honors, but I have won them by
      labor, and toil, and strife, whose memory saddens even
      success; but the pure joys of wedded love leave none but
      pleasant recollections which one can dwell upon with
      delight. These thoughts are dearer to me than to most men,
      because I know for whatever success in life I may have had,
      whatever evil I may have avoided, or whatever good I may
      have done, I am mainly indebted to the beautiful, pure,
      true-hearted little black-eyed girl, who on the 18th of
      November, 1830, came trustingly to my arms, the sweetest
      and dearest of wives. You need not fear, therefore, that I
      shall forget your birthday. That and our bridal-day are the
      brightest in my calendar, and memory will not easily part
      with them.

                                      Yours,
                                        TOOMBS.

So well known was this domestic trait of Mr. Toombs that Bishop Beckwith of Georgia, in delivering
his funeral sermon, declared that "no knight, watching his sword before the altar, ever made
a holier, truer, or purer vow than when Robert Toombs stood at the marriage altar more than
fifty years ago. The fire that burned upon the altar of his home remained as pure and unfailing
as the perpetual offering of Jerusalem."

Mrs. Toombs was a woman of warm heart and strong convictions. She was noted for her benevolence
and piety, and these she carried through life. Her Christian example was a steadying influence
often in the stormy and impetuous career of her husband, and finally, when she had closed her
eyes in peace, brought him to the altar where she had worshiped. Her household and her neighbors
loved to be under her influence. No one who ever saw her fine face, or her lustrous dark eyes,
forgot her. Her face was, in some respects, not unlike that of her husband. It is the best
tribute that can be paid to her to say that for more than fifty years her influence over so
strong a character as that of Robert Toombs was most potent. In June, 1856, while driving in
Augusta, the horses attached to the carriage ran away, and Mrs. Toombs was thrown from the
vehicle and sustained a fracture of the hip. General Toombs hastened to Georgia from Congress,
and remained incessantly at her bedside for several weeks. In November, 1880, General and Mrs.
Toombs celebrated their golden wedding, surrounded by their grandchildren and friends. It was
a beautiful sight to see the bride of half a century with a new wedding ring upon her finger,
playing the piano, while the old man of seventy essayed, like Washington, to dance the minuet.
The old couple survived their three children, and lived to bless the lives of grandchildren
and great-grandchildren. They were fond and affectionate parents.

A friend, who had known them in their own home, describes "the great fire in the open fire-place;
on one side the venerable statesman, with that head which always seemed to me of such rare
beauty; on the other side, the quiet wife busy with home affairs, her eyes lighting, now and
then, the wonderful conversation that fell from his eloquent lips."

General Toombs was a liberal provider for his family, and his grandchildren and connections
were constant objects of his bounty. Large sums were spent in charity. No church or benevolent
institution appealed to him in vain. His house was open, and his hospitality was princely and
proverbial. No one was more genial at home. Few prominent persons ever visited Washington without
being entertained by Toombs. His regular dinners to the bar of the circuit, as, twice a year,
the lawyers came to Washington to court, are remembered by scores of Georgians to-day. On one
occasion when the townspeople were discussing the need of a hotel, General Toombs indignantly
replied that there was no need for any such place. "If a respectable man comes to town," said
he, "he can stay at my house. If he isn't respectable, we don't want him here at all."

No religious conference could meet in Washington that the Toombs house was not full of guests.
Many Northern people visited the place to hear the statesman talk. Newspaper correspondents
sought him out to listen to his fine conversation. These people were always sure of the most
courteous treatment, and were prepared for the most candid expression. General Toombs was not
solely a raconteur. He did not draw upon his memory for his wit. The cream of his conversation
was his bold and original comment. His wit flashed all along the line. His speech at times
was droll and full of quaint provincialisms. He treated subjects spontaneously, in a style
all his own. Strangers, who sat near him in a railroad car, have been enchanted by his sage
and spirited conversation, as his leonine features lighted up, and his irresistible smile and
kindly eye forced good-humor, even where his sentiments might have challenged dissent. He was
the finest talker of his day. A close friend, who used to visit him frequently at his home,
declares that Toombs' powers did not wait upon the occasion. He did not require an emergency
to bring him out. All his faculties were alert, and in a morning's chat he would pour out the
riches of memory, humor, eloquence, and logic until the listener would be enthralled by his
brilliancy and power. He delighted to talk with intellectual men and women. He was impatient
with triflers or dolts. He criticised unsparingly, and arraigned men and measures summarily,
but he was a seeker after truth, and even when severe, was free from malice or envy.

General Toombs was a man of tender sympathies. Distress of his friends moved him to prompt
relief. In 1855 a friend and kinsman, Mr. Pope, died in Alabama. He had been a railroad contractor
and his affairs were much involved. General Toombs promptly went to his place, bought in his
property for the family, and left the place for the wife and children, just as it stood. From
Mobile he writes a grief-stricken letter to his wife, December 28, 1855:

      I feel that I must pour out my sorrows to someone, and whom
      else can I look to but to one who, ever faithful and true,
      has had my whole heart from my youth till now? This has
      been one of the dark and sad days of my life. The remains
      of my lost friend Mr. Pope came down on the cars this
      morning. I met them alone at the depot, except Gus. Baldwin
      and the hired hands. This evening I accompanied the remains
      to the boat. Oh, it was so sad to see one whom so many
      people professed to love, in a strange place, conveyed by
      hirelings and deposited like merchandise among the freight
      of a steamboat on the way to his long home. I can scarcely
      write now, at the thought, through the blindness of my own
      tears. As I saw him placed in the appointed spot among the
      strangers and bustle of a departing boat, careless of who
      or what he was, I stole away to the most retired part of
      the boat, to conceal the weakness of friendship and relieve
      my overburdened heart with a flood of tears. I felt it
      would be a profanation of friendship even to be seen to
      feel in such a crowd. But for my overwhelming duty to the
      living I would have taken the boat and gone on with his
      remains. This is the end of the just in this world. He was
      a good and an upright man; never gave offense to a human
      being. His family are ruined, but his only fault was want
      of judgment, and too great confidence in his kind. He could
      not make money, and it really seemed that his every effort
      to do so plunged him deeper into debt. His great fault was
      a concealment of his own difficulties and trials. I would
      have done anything to have relieved them upon a full
      disclosure. He was idolized at home, and I have wept at the
      sorrows of the poor people in his employment, upon the very
      mention of his death. I know I cannot control my grief and
      am sensitive of my own weakness. I could not find relief
      without pouring out my sorrows to you. There let them rest.

                                      Yours,
                                        TOOMBS.

General Toombs resided in a three-story frame house in Washington, built after the manner of
the olden time, with the spacious piazza, heavy columns, the wide door, and the large rooms.
He lived in ease and comfort. He was an early riser, and after breakfast devoted himself to
business or correspondence. At midday he was accessible to visitors, and rarely dined alone.
In the afternoon he walked or drove. At night he sat in his arm-chair at his fireside, and
in his lips invariably carried an unlit cigar. Smoking did not agree with him. While in Europe
he delighted to test the tobacco of the different countries, but the practice always gave him
pain above the eyes. His last attempt was in the army of Virginia. Convinced that smoking injured
him, he never resumed it. Fond of his dry smoke, he had a peculiar cigar made to order, very
closely wrapped, with fine tobacco.

General Toombs made frequent trips away from home, even during the latter part of his life.
The State retained his services in important cases. One of his last public acts was the prosecution
of certain railway companies for back taxes. He recovered thousands of dollars to the State.
He was summoned to Atlanta in 1880 to prosecute a defaulting State treasurer. He appeared very
feeble, but his speech was a model of clearness and logic. During the latter part of his life
there was a return of his early fault of quick, nervous, compressed speech. He grasped only
the great hillocks of thought and left the intervening ground to be filled by the listener.
His terse, rapid style was difficult to follow. As a presiding judge said, "His leaps are like
a kangaroo's, and his speech gave me the headache." But his argument in the Jack Jones case
was a model of eloquence and convincing law. A large number of friends attended the court,
convinced that General Toombs was nearing the end of his great career, and were astounded at
the manner in which he delivered his argument. As he concluded his address he turned in his
place and caught the eye of Rev. Father J. M. O'Brien, an old friend of his. "Why, Father O'Brien,"
he said, wringing his hand, "I am glad to see you taking an interest in this case. These people
are trying to usurp your functions. They want to grant the defendant absolution." "But, General,"
replied the quick-witted priest, "even I could not grant absolution until he had made restitution."
"That's the doctrine," said the delighted lawyer, pleased to find that the point of his speech
had taken so well. His face was all aglow with the gaudia certaminis of the forum. This was
his last appearance in court, and he won his case.

His mother Georgia claimed his allegiance always, and he gave her his last and best powers.
He worked for the commonwealth, and gave the people more than he ever received in return.

In Augusta, in 1871, when he appeared before the Georgia Railroad Commission and arraigned
the lease of the State road as illegal and unhallowed, he declared in a burst of indignation;
"I would rather be buried at the public expense than to leave a dirty shilling." It was the
acme of his desire to live and die like a gentleman.

He had always been a safe financier. Scorning wealth, he had early found himself wealthy. It
is estimated that he made more than a million dollars by his law practice after the war. He
spent his money freely, careful always to avoid debt. Further than this, he kept no account
of his means. Like Astor, he invested much of his holdings in land, and owned a large number
of fine plantations in middle Georgia. When he died his estate probably reached two hundred
thousand dollars.

CHAPTER XXX.

HIS GREAT FAULT.

No just biography of Robert Toombs can be written that does not take into notice the blemishes
as well as the brightness of his character. He was a man on a grand scale. His virtues were
heroic, his faults were conspicuous. No man despised hypocrisy more than he did, and no one
would have asked any sooner to be painted as he was, without concealment. During the latter
part of his life, many people knew him principally by his faults. Few knew what the wayward
Prince Hal of the evening had been to King Henry in the morning hour. Like Webster and Clay,
he was made up of human frailty. As his intimate friend, Samuel Barnett, said of him: "In spite
of splendid physique, a man of blood and passion, he was not only a model of domestic virtue,
but he avoided the lewd talk to which many prominent men are addicted. A fine sportsman and
rider, a splendid shot, he was nothing of the racer or gamester. After all, he was more of
a model than a warning." Among his faults, the one which exaggerated all the others, was his
use of ardent liquors. This habit grew upon him, especially after the failure of the war. A
proud, imperious nature, accustomed to great labors and great responsibilities, was left without
its main resource and supplied with the stimulus of wine. No man needed that stimulus less
than he did. His was a manhood vibrant in age with the warm blood of youth, and always at its
best when his spirits and intellect alone were at play. He was easily affected by the smallest
indulgence. When he measured himself with others, glass for glass, the result was distressing,
disastrous. The immediate effect of excess was short. The next morning his splendid vitality
asserted itself, and he was bright and clear as ever. The habit, however, grew upon him. The
want of a physical check was bad. This was the worst of all his faults, and was exaggerated
by special circumstances. It was less indulged in at home and greatly circulated abroad. Frequently
the press reporters would surround him and expose in the papers a mere caricature of him. His
talk, when under the influence of wine, was racy, extravagant, and fine, and his sayings too
often found their way into print. In this way great injustice was done to the life and character
of Robert Toombs, and Northern men who read these quaint sayings and redolent vaporings formed
a distorted idea of the man.

To a Northern correspondent who approached him during one of these periods, General Toombs
said: "Yes, a gentleman whose intelligence revolts at usurpations must abstain from discussing
the principles and policies of your Federal government, or receive the kicks of crossroad sputterers
and press reporters; must either lie or be silent. They know only how to brawl and scrawl 'hot-head'
and 'impolitic maniac.' Why, my free negroes know more than all your bosses. Now, damn it,
put that in your paper."

Robert Toombs was built to live ninety years, and to have been, at Gladstone's age, a Gladstone
in power. He took little pains to explain his real nature. He seemed to take pains to conceal
or mislead. He appeared at times to hide his better and expose his worse side. If he had been
Byron, he would have put forward his deformed foot. He was utterly indifferent to posthumous
fame. Time and again he was asked to have his letters and speeches compiled for print, but
he would never hear of it. He waived these suggestions away with the sententious remark, "that
his life was written on the pages of his country's history." With all his faults, his were
strong principles and generous impulses. "We know something of what he yielded, but we know
nothing of what he resisted." Include his strength and his weakness and measure him by other
men, and we have a man of giant mold.

One who was very near to Toombs in his last days said of him when he was dead: "It was a thing
of sorrow to see this majestic old man pausing to measure his poor strength with a confirmed
habit, rising, struggling, falling, and praying as he drifted on."

General Toombs used to say that Webster was the greatest man he ever knew, that Clay managed
men better, and Calhoun was the finest logician of the century. "The two most eloquent men
I ever heard were Northern men," said he; "Choate and Prentiss." "Pierce," he used to say,
"was the most complete gentleman I ever saw in the White House. He was clever and correct.
Zachary Taylor was the most ignorant. It was amazing how little he knew. Van Buren was shrewd
rather than sagacious. Tyler was a beautiful speaker, but Webster declared that a man who made
a pretty speech was fit for nothing else."

Toombs met Abraham Lincoln while he was in Congress. He related that Mr. Lincoln once objected
to sitting down at table because he was the thirteenth man. Toombs told him that it was better
to die than to be a victim to superstition. At the Hampton Roads Conference, President Lincoln
expressed to Judge Campbell his confidence in the honesty and ability of Robert Toombs. He
was a great reader. General Toombs often said that if the whole English literature were lost,
and the Bible and Shakespeare remained, letters would not be much the poorer. Shakespeare was
his standard. He was fond of Swedenborg, and in his early youth relished Tom Paine.

General Toombs had a great affinity for young men, upon whom he exerted a great influence.
He once said to a party of friends that gambling was the worst of evils because it impoverished
the pocket while it corrupted the mind. "How about drinking, General?" he was asked. "Well,
if a man is old and rich he may drink, for he will have the sympathy of his sober friends and
the support of his drinking ones."

CHAPTER XXXI.

HIS LAST DAYS.

In 1880 General Toombs appeared in Atlanta, and addressed the Georgia Legislature in behalf
of the candidacy of General A. R. Lawton for the United States Senate. His appearance, as he
walked up the aisle, grim, venerable, and determined, awoke wild applause. He preserved his
power of stirring the people whenever he spoke, but his speech was not as racy and clear as
it had been. "This was one of the occasions," to quote from a distinguished critic of Toombs,
"when the almost extinct volcano glowed again with its wonted fires--when the ivy-mantled keep
of the crumbling castle resumed its pristine defiance with deep-toned culverin and ponderous
mace; when, amid the colossal fragments of the tottering temple, men recognized the unsubdued
spirit of Samson Agonistes."

His last public speech was in September, 1884, when the people of Washington carried him the
news of Cleveland's election to the Presidency. He came to his porch and responded briefly,
almost inaudibly, to the serenade, but he was full of the gratification which Southern people
felt over that event. He declared that he did not know that there was enough manhood in the
country as to break loose from party ties and elect a President. The fact had revived his hope
for the whole country. He had, before this, taken a gloomy view of the nation. He had, on one
occasion, declared that the injection into the body politic of three million savages had made
good government forever impossible. He had afterward said that the American Constitution rested
solely upon the good faith of the people, and that would hardly bind together a great people
of diverse interests. "Since 1850," he once said, "I have never believed this Union to be perpetual.
The experience of the last war will deter any faction from soon making an effort at secession.
Had it not been for this, there would have been a collision in 1876." But the election of Cleveland
he regarded as a national, rather than a sectional victory--a non-partisan triumph in fact;
and it was at this time, the first occasion since the war, that he expressed regret that he
had not regained his citizenship and gone back into public life.

But his great power had begun to wane. His tottering gait and hesitating speech pointed unmistakably
to speedy dissolution. The new-born hope for his country came just as his steps neared "the
silent, solemn shore of that vast ocean he must sail so soon."

In March, 1883, General Toombs was summoned to Atlanta to attend the funeral of his lifelong
friend Mr. Stephens. The latter had been an invalid for forty years, but was kept in active
life by the sheer force of his indomitable will. Emerging from the war a prisoner, he had finally
secured his release and had been elected United States Senator. Being prevented from taking
his seat, he had returned home and finished his constitutional review of the "War Between the
States." In 1873 he had been reëlected to Congress, where he had remained for ten years, resigning
this position to accept the nomination for Governor of Georgia, which his party had offered
him at a critical moment. It had been the desire of the "Great Commoner" to "die in harness,"
and there is no doubt that his close attention to the arduous duties of Governor hastened his
death. Thousands of Georgians repaired to the State Capitol to honor his memory, but he who
attracted most attention was the gray and grief-stricken companion who stood by the coffin
of the man he had honored for fifty years. Mr. Stephens, in his diary, recalls the fact that
his first meeting with Mr. Toombs was in court, when the latter generously offered to lend
him money and look after his practice so that Stephens could take a trip for his health.

Like Damon and Pythias, these two men were bound by the strongest ties. They entered public
life together in the General Assembly of Georgia. Together they rode the circuits as young
attorneys, and each was rewarded about the same time with a seat in the national councils.
Both were conspicuous in the ante-bellum agitation, and both were prominent in the Civil War.
As age advanced their relations were closer still.

General Toombs at the funeral of his friend pronounced a eulogium on the dead. His words were
tremulous, and the trooping, tender memories of half a century crowded into the anguish of
that moment. Toombs and Stephens, so long united in life, were not long parted in death.

In September, 1883, Mrs. Toombs died at her summer residence in Clarkesville, Ga. Their devoted
friend, Dr. Steiner, was with them at the time, and rendered the double offices of family physician
and sympathetic friend. Between these two men there had been a warm and long friendship. Dr.
Steiner talked with General Toombs about his spiritual condition. A godly man himself, the
doctor thought that he might remove any doubts that might linger in the mind of the stricken
husband. He was gratified to hear that the way was clear. "Why, doctor," said General Toombs,
"I am a prayerful man. I read the Bible and the Prayer Book every day." "Then why not be baptized,
General?" "Baptize me, doctor," was his prompt reply. Dr. Steiner answered that there was no
immediate need of that. The general was in good health. Dr. Steiner had baptized patients,
he said, but it was in times of emergency. It was the desire of General Toombs to be baptized
at the bedside of his wife. In a short time Robert Toombs was in communion with the Southern
Methodist Church. It was his wife's beautiful example, "moving beside that soaring, stormy
spirit, praying to God for blessings on it," which brought him to a confession of his faith,
and left him in full fellowship with God's people.

General Toombs' health commenced visibly to fail after his wife's death, and the loss of Mr.
Stephens made life lonely. His younger brother Gabriel, himself in the shadow of a great affliction,
was with him constantly. They were devotedly attached to each other. Mr. Gabriel Toombs is,
in personal appearance, very much like his brother. The long, iron-gray hair, brushed straight
out from his head, reminds one of Robert Toombs. He is smaller in stature, and is a man of
strong abilities, even temperament, and well-balanced mind. His brother had great regard for
his business judgment and political sagacity, and often consulted him on public matters. These
men lived near each other in Washington, their families grew up together, and General Toombs
regarded his brother's children almost as he did his own.

On the 30th of September, 1885, Robert Toombs was confined to his house by illness. It was
a general breaking down of his whole system. It was evident that he was nearing his end. During
his last illness his mind would wander, and then his faculties would return with singular clearness.
He suffered little pain. As Henry Grady said of him, it seemed that this kingly power and great
vitality, which had subdued everything else, would finally conquer death. His ruling instinct
was strong in dissolution. He still preserved to the last his faculty of grasping with ease
public situations, and "framing terse epigrams, which he threw out like proverbs."

During one of his lucid intervals he asked for the news. He was told; "General, the Georgia
Legislature has not yet adjourned."

"Lord, send for Cromwell," he answered, as he turned on his pillow.

Another time he was told that the Prohibitionists were holding an election in the town. "Prohibitionists,"
said he, "are men of small pints."

His mind at this period dwelt mainly on serious thoughts. The Bible was read to him daily.
He was perfectly aware of his condition. He said to Dr. Steiner: "Looking over my broad field
of life, I have not a resentment. I would not pang a heart."

He talked in his delirium of Mr. Stephens and Dr. Steiner. The latter recalled him and said:
"General, I am here by your side; Mr. Stephens, you know, has crossed over the river." Coming
to himself, he said: "Yes, I know I am fast passing away. Life's fitful fever will soon be
over. I would not blot out a single act of my life."

Dr. Steiner declared that he never before realized so fully the appropriateness of Mr. Stephens'
tribute to Toombs; "His was the greatest mind I ever came in contact with. Its operations,
even in its errors, remind me of a mighty waste of waters."

When the time came for Dr. Steiner to return to his home in Augusta, General Toombs bade him
good-by. "I am sorry," said he, "the hour is come. I hope we shall meet in a better place."

After Thursday, December 10, General Toombs did not regain consciousness. On Monday, December
15, 1885, at 6 o'clock P. M., he breathed his last. Just as the darkness of a winter evening
stole over the land the great spirit of the statesman walked into eternal light.

He was buried on Thursday, December 18, at twelve o'clock. The funeral exercises were held
in the little brick Methodist church where his wife and daughter had worshiped.

The funeral was simple, according to his wishes. A large number of public men in Georgia attended
the services. Dr. Hillyer, a prominent Baptist divine and classmate of General Toombs, assisted
in the services. Rt. Rev. John W. Beckwith, Episcopal Bishop of Georgia, who had been his closest
religious adviser after the death of the Methodist Bishop George F. Pierce, delivered a beautiful
eulogium.

The remains were interred in the Washington cemetery, by the side of the body of his wife.
A handsome marble shaft, bearing the simple and speaking inscription "Robert Toombs," marks
the spot which is sacred to all Georgians.

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDEX.

 Abolitionists, election of "Independent Democrats" by, 109;
   in campaign of 1856, 140;
   effect of Dred Scott case on, 159

 Achison, David R., leader in U. S. Senate, 107

 Act of 1789, claim for enforcement of, 73-76

 Adams, John Q., compact with Clay, 14;
   charge of corruption against, 55;
   member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56

 Alabama, delegates withdraw from Charleston convention, 177;
   secession of, 213;
   escape through, 301-303

 Alabama, escape on the, 305

 Alexander, W. F., joins in European trip, 125;
   appointed Quartermaster-major, 237

 Alexander, Mrs. W. F., death, 312

 Aliens, Toombs' welcome for, 150, 151

 Alps, visit to the, 126

 American party, rise, 121;
   opposed and denounced by Toombs, 124, 128, 147, 149;
   successes and defeats in 1855, 128;
   nominates Fillmore, 140;
   opposition to Toombs' party, 143;
   principles, 148;
   nominates Hill for governorship of Georgia, 155;
   downfall, 158

 Amsterdam, visit to, 126

 Anderson, Major, besieged at Fort Sumter, 227-229

 Andrews, Judge, defeated for governorship of Georgia, 128

 Andrews' Grove, debate between Toombs and Hill in, 145-152

 Antietam, battle of, 262-269

 Anti-railroad agitation, 26

 Appleton, Nathan, entertains Toombs at Boston, 130

 Appleton, William, entertains Toombs at Boston, 130

 Arkansas, delegates leave Charleston convention, 177;
   secedes, 233

 Army Appropriation bill, debate between Toombs and Davis on, 247-249

 Army of Northern Virginia, 5, 262

 Army of Potomac, defeated before Richmond, 246

 Articles of Confederation, bearing on slavery question, 132

 Athens, University at, 7-12

 Atlanta, quarrel between Stephens and Cone in, 62;
   in the field before, 276;
   political meeting at, 324

 Atlanta Sun, edited by Stephens, 332

 Atlantic cable, opposes appropriation for, 194

 Augusta, Ga., speeches at, 47-50, 165-168

 Augusta Chronicle and Sentinel, defends Toombs, 186

 Baltimore, delegate to Clay convention at, 46;
   Whig convention at, 97;
   Democratic convention at, 97

 Baltimore convention, the, action in regard to Georgia delegations, 182

 Banking, position on, 33, 39

 Bank of the United States, 32

 Bar, admission to the, 13

 Barnett, Samuel, frames railroad law, 351;
   tribute to Toombs, 364

 Bartow, Francis S., deputy to Provisional Congress, 215

 Bayard, James A., leader in U. S. Senate, 107;
   member of Charleston convention, 176;
   presides over seceders from Charleston convention, 178

 Beaverdam Creek, 3

 Beckwith, Bishop John W., eulogium on Toombs, 355, 376

 Bell, John, leader in U. S. Senate, 107;
   vote on Kansas-Nebraska bill, 115;
   nominated for Presidency, 183;
   vote in Georgia for, 184

 Benjamin, Judah P., Attorney General of Confederate States, 221;
   legal practice in England, 310

 Benning, Col., assumes command of Toombs' brigade, 268

 Benton, Thomas H., on disunion, 81

 Berrien, John M., censured by Georgia Democrats, 39;
   represents Georgia in U. S. Senate, 68;
   in campaign of 1851, 93, 94

 Bill of Rights, in Constitutional convention, 345

 Bird, Edge, reunion with Toombs, 298, 299

 Black, Edward J., opposes Toombs in campaign of 1844, 53

 Blaine, J. G., characterization of Toombs' farewell
     speech in Senate, 205;
   on bombardment of Sumter, 229;
   on ravages of Confederate ships, 232;
   objects to Toombs' restoration to citizenship, 313

 Blair, Frank P., nominated for Vice-presidency, 324

 Blockade of Southern ports, 229

 Bonds, repudiation of outlawed, 343, 344

 Boston, lecture in, 129-135

 Boston Journal, on Toombs' lecture, 131

 Boyd Amendment, 80

 Braddock, Gen., massacre of his command, 1

 Bragg, Gen., opposed by Toombs and Linton Stephens, 274

 Breckenridge, John C., elected vice president, 152;
   nominated for Presidency, 183;
   vote in Georgia for, 184;
   last attendance at Confederate Cabinet, 282

 Bright, John, restrains recognition of Confederacy, 232, 233

 Broderick, Senator, eulogized by Toombs, 336

 Brooks, Preston S., assaults Sumner, 141, 142;
   reëlected, 142

 Brown, John, raid on Harper's Ferry, 169;
   execution, 169;
   influence of, 170;
   Toombs' characterization of his raid, 172, 173

 Brown, Joseph E., nominated for governorship of Georgia, 154;
   rise of, 156, 157;
   supported by Toombs, 157;
   ability, 158;
   elected governor, 158;
   candidate for reëlection to governorship, 166;
   seizes Fort Pulaski, 214;
   opposes Conscription and Impressment Acts, 273;
   commended by Toombs, 278;
   parting with Toombs, 281;
   joins Republican party, 290;
   strained relations with Toombs, 333-336

 Browne, W. M., Confederate Assistant Secretary of State, 237

 Brussels, visit to, 126

 Buchanan, James, on Kansas-Nebraska bill, 114, 115;
   nominated for Presidency, 141;
   elected, 152;
   position on Territorial question, 159;
   dissolution of Cabinet, 199

 Bullock, Gov., 317, 320, 321

 Bunker Hill Monument, denial of speech about slave roll-call, at, 119

 Burt, Armistead, member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56

 Bush Arbor meeting, 324-327

 Butler, Benjamin F., member of Charleston convention, 176

 Butler, Senator, Sumner's strictures on, 142

 Calhoun, John C., compared with Toombs, 14;
   as a lawyer, 16;
   conflict with Jackson, 29;
   admiration of Toombs for, 31, 104, 367;
   railroad schemes of, 41;
   arraigned for the "sugar letter," 46;
   characterization of acquired Mexican territory, 67;
   last efforts of, 68, 79, 107

 California, acquisition of, 67;
   question of admission of, 77-81, 85;
   Toombs' ideas on exclusion of slavery from, 91;
   supports the South in Charleston convention, 177

 Cameron, Simon, criticised by Toombs, 197

 Canada, favors purchase of, 195

 Caribbean Sea, advocates making a mare clausum, 196

 Carlyle, Thomas, view of the Civil War, 233;
   Toombs' interviews with, 310

 Cass, Lewis, defeated for the Presidency, 63;
   leader in U. S. Senate, 107;
   enmity to, by Northern men, 118

 Catlett, Miss, 3

 Central America, favors purchase of, 195

 Centreville, Johnston's advance to, 238;
   Toombs' retreat from, 239;
   escape of Toombs through, 292

 Chandler, Daniel, 9

 Charles I., legend of Toombs' ancestors and, 1, 2, 156

 Charleston, S. C., Yancey's speech in, 178;
   excitement at bombardment of Sumter, 227

 Charleston convention, the, 175-181

 Charlton, Robert M., Democratic leader, 51;
   opposition to Toombs, 95

 Chase, Salmon P., represents Ohio in U. S. Senate, 68, 107;
   an "Independent Democrat," 109;
   vote on Kansas-Nebraska bill, 115

 Chattahoochee River, Toombs' escape by, 301

 Chenault, Nick, 288

 Cherokee County, sends Brown to State Senate, 157

 Chickahominy River, Johnston's retreat behind, 245

 Chickamauga, dispute between Gen. Hill and Gen. Walker
     at battle of, 258, 259

 Choate, Rufus, Toombs on, 367

 Cilley duel, the, 55

 Cincinnati Platform of 1856, 141, 165

 Civil war, Toombs' horror of, 120;
   opening of the, 227

 Clarke, Gen. John, feud with Crawford, 29, 30

 Clarkesville, Ga., summer residence at, 372

 Clay, Henry, 14;
   Toombs' opinion of, 38, 50, 104, 367;
   nominated for Presidency, 46;
   Compromise measures, 52, 79;
   opposition to, in campaign of 1844, 54, 55;
   popularity, 55;
   position in campaign of 1848, 60;
   opinion on disposition of acquired territory, 67;
   last efforts of, 68;
   the "Omnibus bill," 80;
   death, 107;
   denies framing the Missouri Compromise, 113;
   position on internal improvements, 188;
   his loss felt, 201

 Clay and Adams compact, the, 14

 Clayton Compromise, the, 61, 62, 64

 Cleveland, Grover, Toombs' speech on election of, 370

 Cobb, Gov. Howell, as a lawyer, 16, 20, 21;
   Democratic leader, 51;
   member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56;
   elected Speaker of House of Representatives, 69;
   position on admission of California, 81;
   position on disunion, 82;
   nominated for governorship, 86;
   characteristics of, 87;
   in campaign of 1851, 92;
   elected governor, 93;
   opinion of Joseph E. Brown, 155;
   indorses seceders from Charleston convention, 179;
   prominence of, 186;
   deputy to Provisional Congress, 215;
   president of Provisional Congress, 216;
   addresses meeting at Atlanta, 324

 Cobb, Thomas R. R., zeal for secession, 212;
   deputy to Provisional Congress, 215

 Cobb, Thomas W., guardian of Robert Toombs, 7, 8

 College discipline, 8, 9

 Collins v. Central R. R. & Banking Co., case argued by Toombs, 346

 Colquitt, Walter T., elected U. S. Senator, 38;
   Democratic leader, 51

 Columbia County, legal practice in, 15

 Columbia River, boundary line of, 57

 Commerce, Toombs' views on the power to regulate, 189

 Committee on Banking, General Assembly, chairman of, 33

 Committee on Internal Improvements, General Assembly, member of, 33;
   chairman of, 40

 Committee on State of the Republic, General Assembly, chairman of, 33

 Committees, views on legislation through, 196

 Compromise bill, the, 52

 Compromise of 1850, the, 67-82;
   indorsed by Whig and Democratic conventions at Baltimore, 97;
   Gen. Scott's position on, 103

 Cone, Francis H., as a lawyer, 16;
   opposed to Toombs at the bar, 25;
   quarrel with Stephens, 62

 Confederacy, last days of the, 280-284

 Confederate commissioners, mission to Washington, 222-224;
   sent to Europe, 229

 Confederate navy, captures by, 232

 Confederate States, preparation of Constitution for, 219, 220;
   appointment of Cabinet, 221;
   last meeting of Cabinet, 282

 Conscription and Impressment Acts, opposition to, 272, 273

 Constitutional Union party, 81, 93, 183

 Constitutional convention, and the new constitution of Georgia, 337-352

 Conventions, Toombs' opinion of, 103, 104, 106

 Corporations, attitude toward, 346

 Crawford, George W., as a lawyer, 16;
   resolution in Whig convention of 1848, 60;
   connection with the Golphin claim, 65;
   retirement of, 66;
   presides over State Sovereignty convention, 209

 Crawford, Martin J., deputy to Provisional Congress, 215;
   Confederate commissioner to Washington, 222

 Crawford, William H., career, 13, 14, 16;
   feud with Clarke, 29, 30;
   heads Whig electoral ticket in Georgia, 1848, 60

 Creek War, Toombs' service in, 32;
   anecdote of sutler, 352

 Creole, Toombs' escape on the, 303, 304

 Crittenden Compromise, the, 202, 203

 Cuba, favors purchase of, 195, 196;
   arrival in, 307

 Cumberland Gap, railroad scheme for, 41

 Cumming, Major J. B., 259

 Cummings Point battery, fires on Fort Sumter, 227

 Cushing, Caleb, president of Charleston convention, 175;
   resigns chairmanship of Baltimore convention, 182;
   presides over seceders from Baltimore convention, 183

 Dallas, George M., attitude on tariff question, 50;
   Georgia's vote for, 55

 Danburg, letter from Toombs to constituents at, 199-201

 Davis, Col., quarrel with Henry Clay, 54, 55

 Davis, Jefferson, Toombs' advice to, 23;
   member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56;
   on Toombs' financial ability, 59;
   represents Mississippi in U. S. Senate, 68;
   defeated by Foote, 97;
   debate with Douglas on popular sovereignty, 163, 164;
   personal traits, 163;
   Senate resolutions concerning Southern principles, 181;
   election to Presidency of Confederate States, 217, 218;
   appoints his Cabinet, 221;
   belief in Seward, 223;
   Toombs' opinion of, 241, 242, 246;
   debate with Toombs on Army Appropriation bill, 247-249;
   policy and character of, 274, 275;
   attends last meeting of Confederate Cabinet, 281, 282;
   tribute to Toombs, 284;
   arrest of, 284;
   last meeting with Toombs, 284, 285;
   in irons, 298

 Davis, John W., elected Speaker of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56

 Dawson, William C., as a lawyer, 16;
   candidate for governor of Georgia, 37;
   enters U. S. Senate, 68

 Deas, Joseph, aids Toombs' escape, 296

 Declaration of Independence, position on slavery question, 132

 Declaration of Paris, accepted by Confederate government, 231

 Delaware delegates leave Charleston convention, 177

 Democratic party, strength in Georgia, 30;
   supports central bank scheme, 38;
   censures Senator Berrien, 39;
   criticised, 48;
   carries additional protection measure, 51;
   attempt to defeat Toombs by, in 1848, 63, 64;
   elects Cobb Speaker of House, 69;
   joint action with Whigs in Georgia, 85;
   convention at Baltimore, 97;
   loss of House majority, 121;
   nominates Buchanan, 141;
   nominates Brown for governor of Georgia, 154;
   split over Territorial question, 166, 167;
   demand for new plank in platform, 167;
   split among Georgia Democrats, 182;
   success in State legislature, 329

 Depreciation of currency, 31

 District of Columbia, Clay's proposed abolition of slave trade in, 79;
   amendment as to slavery in, 202

 Disunion, opposition to, 81;
   clamor for, 83

 Dooly, Judge, 14

 "Door sill" speech, the, 170-174

 Dougherty, Robert, 9

 Douglas, Stephen A., member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56;
   enters U. S. Senate, 68;
   leader in U. S. Senate, 107;
   introduces Kansas-Nebraska bill, 108, 109;
   second bill on Kansas-Nebraska question, 109;
   burned in effigy, 115;
   Presidential aspirations, 140, 161;
   debate with Lincoln, 161, 162;
   accused of participation in assault on Sumner, 142, 143;
   eulogized by Toombs, 148, 149, 164, 165, 167;
   opposes Lecompton constitution, 160;
   indorses Dred Scott decision, 160;
   reëlected to U. S. Senate, 162, 163;
   views on popular sovereignty, 163, 164;
   resolution for protection of States against invasion, 170-172;
   rupture with Toombs, 181;
   nominated for Presidency, 182;
   vote in Georgia for, 184

 Dred Scott case, 159

 Droomgoole, George C., member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56

 Du Bose, Dudley M., Toombs' adjutant-general, 237;
   forms partnership with Toombs, 316;
   sent to Congress, 329

 Du Bose, Mrs. Dudley M., death of, 310

 Du Bose v. Georgia Railroad, case argued by Toombs, 346

 Du Quesne, Fort, massacre at, 1

 Eberhart case, the, 25, 26

 Elbert County, admission to bar in, 13;
   legal practice in, 15, 16, 22, 23;
   popularity in, 22;
   escape through, 288, 289, 292

 Elberton, Ga., speech at, 89

 Electoral vote, views on counting, 193, 194

 Emigrant Aid Societies, 115-118, 159

 Enghien, visit to, 309

 England, introduction of slavery into Colonies by, 134

 English compromise on Lecompton constitution, 164

 Eugénie, Empress, Toombs' interviews with, 310

 Europe, trip in, 125-128;
   hesitation of powers in regard to the Confederacy, 233

 Evans, Augusta J., aids Toombs' escape, 302, 303

 Evans, Howard, aids Toombs' escape, 302, 303

 Everett, Edward, nominated for Vice-presidency, 183

 Fanning, Welcome, 6

 Felton, W. H., opposition to, 105

 "Fifty-four forty, or fight," 57

 Fillmore, Millard, nominated for Vice-presidency, 60;
   on repeal of Missouri Compromise, 115;
   nominated for Presidency, 140;
   Toombs' characterization of, 149, 150;
   electoral vote for, 152

 Finance Committee of Provisional Congress, chairman of, 220

 Fish, Hamilton, vote on Kansas-Nebraska bill, 115

 Fitzpatrick, Gov., declines nomination for Vice-presidency, 182

 Florida, delegates leave Charleston convention, 177;
   secession of, 213

 Foote, Henry S., represents Mississippi in U. S. Senate, 68;
   elected governor of Mississippi, 97;
   contest with Davis in Mississippi, 163

 "Forbidden Fruit," 67

 Force bill, the, 51

 Foreacre, Supt., frames railroad law, 351

 Forensic eloquence, 18, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 361

 Forsyth, John, Confederate commissioner to Washington, 222

 Forsythe, John C., attitude on the Compromise bill, 52

 Forts. See their names.

 France, Mexican schemes, 233;
   political events in, 309, 310

 Franklin College, 6-12

 Franklin County, legal practice in, 16

 Freemasons, joins the, 289

 Freeport, Ill., debate between Lincoln and Douglas at, 161, 162

 Free-Soil party, 89

 Free-Soil settlers, 115, 116

 Frémont, John C., nominated for Presidency, 140;
   electoral vote for, 152

 French, Capt. H. L., account of Toombs at second battle
     of Manassas, 261

 Fugitive-Slave law, Clay's proposed, 79;
   the Georgia platform, 86;
   indorsed by Whig convention at Baltimore, 97;
   Webster's attitude on, 100;
   allusion to, in Boston lecture, 131

 Fugitive-Slave laws, passage of new, 170;
   proposed amendments, 202;
   demands of the South as to, 206

 Fulton, Col. M. C., narrow escape of, 304

 Gardner, James, candidate for governorship of Georgia, 157

 Garrison, W. L., denunciation of U. S. Constitution, 129

 General Assembly, service in the, 17, 30-46;
   vote for Speaker in, 33

 Geneva, visit to, 126

 Georgia, land-grant to Major Robert Toombs in, 2;
   distress in, 34-37;
   first railroad in, 40;
   internal improvements, 40;
   establishment of Supreme Court, 41;
   organization of Congressional districts, 44;
   supports Jackson in 1824, 51;
   Henry Clay in, 55;
   panegyric on, 58;
   formation of "Rough and Ready" clubs in, 60;
   the Clayton Compromise in, 60-62;
   formation of Constitutional Union party, 81, 183;
   growth of secession sentiment in, 83, 201, 204;
   adoption of the "Georgia Platform," 86;
   nomination of Howell Cobb for governor, 86;
   nomination of McDonald for governor, 86;
   a national battle ground, 102;
   supports Pierce and King, 102, 103;
   uncertainty of politics in, 121;
   breaking up of Know-nothing party in, 122;
   campaign of 1855, 128;
   vote for Buchanan in convention, 141;
   campaign of 1856, 143-152;
   politics in, 145;
   carried by Buchanan, 152;
   campaign of 1857, 154;
   opposition to Brown's reëlection, 166;
   indorsement of Toombs' sentiments by, 168;
   position on the Fugitive-Slave law, 174;
   action of delegates to Charleston convention, 179;
   split in Democratic party, 182;
   vote in 1860, 184;
   prominence in 1860, 186;
   call for State convention, 200;
   votes for secession, 209;
   institution of slavery in, 211;
   wealth at time of secession, 213;
   agricultural policy during war, 275;
   the militia, 276-278;
   the March to the Sea, 280;
   Gov. Brown's address to people of, 290;
   Toombs' acquaintance in, 299;
   Toombs' return to, 315;
   in reconstruction days, 315-329;
   Constitutional convention, and the new constitution, 337-352;
   railroad commission formed, 350, 351

 Georgia Platform, the, 83, 93, 97

 Georgia Railroad, 40

 Gettysburg and Malvern Hill compared, 252

 Gillet, R. H., vote on Kansas-Nebraska bill, 115

 Gilmer, George R., as a lawyer, 16;
   on railroad construction, 41

 Glen Spring, Ga., meeting between Hill and Brown at, 155

 Golphin claim, the, 65

 Gonder, Major, aids Toombs' escape, 294, 295

 Gordon, Gen. John B., interview with Tilden, 321;
   nominated for governor, 324

 Gordonsville, Toombs under arrest at, 259, 260

 Grady, Henry W., characterization of J. E. Brown, 156;
   at Bush Arbor meeting, 327;
   on Toombs' approaching death, 374

 "Gray Alice," 5, 268, 288, 292, 297, 300, 301

 Great Britain, contention over Oregon question, 56-59;
   accused of lack of sympathy with the North, 230

 "Great Pacificator," the, 201

 Greeley, Horace, nomination opposed by Toombs, 105, 332

 Greene County, partition of land in, 3;
   legal practice in, 16

 Gresham, J. J., 179

 Gulf of Mexico, advocates making a mare clausum, 196

 Habersham County, escape through, 291

 Hagarstown, taken possession of by Toombs, 265

 Hale, Senator, contest with Toombs in Kansas debate, 117-120

 Hallet, B. F., letter from Toombs to, 119

 Hamlin, Hannibal, member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56;
   vote on Kansas-Nebraska bill, 115

 Hardeman, Frank, 14

 Hardeman, Judge Samuel H., 26

 Harper's Ferry, John Brown's raid on, 169

 Harrisburg convention, demands protection, 51

 Harrison, W. H., election of, 33;
   Toombs' interest in election of, 45

 Harrison Landing, Toombs' escape by, 288

 Hayne, R. Y., challenge to Webster, 175

 Hayti, effects of emancipation in, 134

 Heard House, the, 282

 Hill, Benjamin H., as a lawyer, 20;
   associated with Toombs in Eberhart case, 26;
   opposition to Toombs, 95;
   rising fame of, 144;
   debate with Toombs, 144-152;
   nominated for governorship of Georgia, 155;
   supports Bell and Everett, 184;
   Vincent's characterization of, 184, 185;
   deputy to Provisional Congress, 215;
   chosen Confederate Senator, 241;
   addresses meeting at Atlanta, 324, 327;
   challenged by Stephens, 336

 Hill, Gen. D. H., at Malvern Hill, 252, 253;
   charges against Toombs, and correspondence thereon, 254-258;
   character, 258, 259;
   challenged by Toombs, 336

 Hilliard, Henry W., member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56

 Hillyer, Dr., assists in Toombs' funeral services, 375, 376

 Holt, Hines, opposition to Toombs, 95

 Homestead and Exemption laws, 38, 317, 340

 Hood, Gen. J. B., in command of Confederate forces, 276

 House of Representatives, U. S., Toombs' action on organization of
     House, Dec. 22, 1850, 71-76

 Houston, Samuel, represents Texas in U. S. Senate, 68;
   comparison of Toombs with, 131

 Houston County, Toombs' escape through, 299

 Huger, Gen., 245

 Hughes, Col. David, aids Toombs' escape, 297

 Huling, Catharine, 3, 4

 Hunter, Robert M. T., member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56;
   represents Virginia in U. S. Senate, 68;
   succeeds Toombs' as Secretary of State, 237

 Illinois, contest between Lincoln and Douglas in, 161, 162;
   re-election of Douglas to Senate, 163;
   government control of railroads, 346

 Internal improvements, views on, 188-191, 197;
   principles of Confederate Constitution on, 220

 Interstate Commerce Law, Georgia's influence in framing, 351

 Intoxicating liquor, use of, 364-368

 Ireland, tour through, 126

 Irvin, Charles E., aids Toombs to escape, 287-305;
   arrested at Savannah, 291;
   war record, 305

 Jack Jones case, the, 361

 Jackson, Pres. Andrew, defeated by Adams, 14;
   conflict with Calhoun, 29;
   Toombs' vote for, 30;
   opposition to, by Troup, 31;
   attitude on tariff of 1824, 51;
   nullification proclamation, 52;
   position on internal improvements, 188

 Jackson, Chief Justice, tribute to Toombs, 27, 28

 Jamaica, effects of emancipation in, 134

 James River, Army of Potomac driven back to, 24

 Jefferson, Thomas, supports the tariff, 48;
   detestation of party machinery, 106;
   position on internal improvements, 188

 Jefferson County, on the stump in, 90

 Jenkins, Charles J., as a lawyer, 16;
   elected Speaker of House, General Assembly, 33;
   defeated for U. S. senatorship, 38;
   reports the "Georgia Platform," 86;
   author of the Georgia Platform, 92, 93;
   opinion of Berrien, 93;
   nominated for Vice-presidency, 99;
   career of, 101;
   personal character, 102;
   disputes reconstruction measures, 323;
   carries off the great seal of Georgia, 333, 338;
   president of Constitutional convention, 337;
   deposed from governorship, 337;
   views on railroad question, 345

 Johnson, Andrew, member of Twenty-ninth Congress, 56;
   impeachment of, 310;
   Toombs' interview with, 313

 Johnson, Herschel V., Democratic leader, 51;
   elected governor of Georgia, 128;
   leads Union wing of Georgia Democrats, 182;
   nominated for Vice-presidency, 183;
   challenged by Stephens, 336

 Johnson, R. M., reunion with Toombs, 298, 299

 Johnson, Fort, fires on Fort Sumter, 227

 Johnston, Gen. Joseph E., on first battle of Manassas, 238;
   advance on Washington, 238;
   withdraws from Manassas, 239;
   heated interview with Toombs, 243;
   recognizes Toombs' worth, 243, 244;
   retreats behind the Chickahominy, 245;
   criticism of Southern soldiers, 271;
   relieved from command, 276;
   struggle with Sherman, 280

 Jones, Gen. D. R., report of second battle of Manassas, 261;
   reports of Toombs' actions at Antietam, 264, 265

 Judiciary Committee, General Assembly, chairman of, 33, 38

 Kansas, civil war in, 115-118, 159;
   Pierce's message on state of, 115, 116

 Kansas bill, opposition to, 166

 Kansas-Nebraska bill, 107-115;
   dissatisfaction with, in Georgia, 143;
   Hill on, 147-149

 Kennan, A. H., deputy to Provisional Congress, 215

 Kentucky, partial secession measures of, 233

 Kimball House Company, financial dealings of Toombs with, 42

 Kinch, ----, sutler in Creek war, 352

 Knott, Pres. Eliphalet, 13

 Know-nothing party. See American party

 Labor, views on, 197

 Lamar, A. R., description of Toombs, 236, 237

 Lamar, De Rosset, Toombs' aid-de-camp, 237

 Lamartine, Toombs compared with, 76

 Land-jobbing, opposition to, 53

 Lane, Jack, reunion with Toombs, 298, 299

 Lane, Joseph C., nominated for Vice-presidency, 183

 Lanier, Sidney, 284

 Lawton, A. R., supported by Toombs, 369

 Lecompton constitution, favored by Buchanan, 160;
   passes the Senate, 164

 Lee, Gen. Robert E., captures John Brown, 169;
   successes of, 246;
   invades Maryland, 262;
   report of Toombs' actions at Antietam, 264

 Le Seur, Alexander, aids Toombs' escape, 288, 289

 Lewis, D. W., defeated by Stephens, 93

 Lexington, Ga., speech in, 92;
   debate between Hill and Stephens at, 144, 145

 Lincoln, Abraham, views on slavery question, 67;
   personal traits, 161, 162;
   opposes Douglas, 161, 162;
   letter to Stephens, 199;
   election of, 199;
   Toombs' views of his policy, 200;
   war pressure on, 224;
   compared with Seward, 225;
   relies on Northern unanimity, 226;
   proclaims blockade of Southern ports, 229;
   disputes with McClellan, 239;
   confidence in Toombs, 367

 "Little Giant," the, 109, 161

 Longstreet, Gen., opinion of Toombs, 106, 241, 271;
   quarrel with Toombs, 259, 260;
   report of Manassas and Maryland campaign, 269;
   compliments Toombs, 269;
   Toombs' opinion of, 325

 Lookout Mountain, last meeting of Davis and Toombs at, 284, 285

 Louisiana, Calhoun's "sugar letter" to, 46;
   delegates leave Charleston convention, 177;
   secession of, 216

 Lumpkin, Joseph H., as a lawyer, 16;
   opinion of Toombs' legal skill, 20

 Lumpkin, murder case at, 23

 Lyons, visit to, 126

 Lyons, Lord, British minister at Washington, 230

 Macon County, Toombs' escape through, 299

 Madison, James, position on internal improvements, 188

 Magna Charta, lecture on, 327-329

 Magruder, Gen., operations on Warwick River, 244;
   command on the peninsula, 245

 Mallory, S. B., Secretary of Navy of Confederate States, 221

 Mallorysville, Ga., speech at, 46

 Malvern Hill, battle of, 1, 252, 253

 Manassas, first battle of, 238;
   evacuated by Confederates, 239;
   Toombs at second battle, 260-262

 Manufactures, argument in favor of, 49

 March to the Sea, the, 280

 Marcy, Secretary, 231

 Marietta, speech in, 91

 Marque, letters of, 229-232

 Marseilles, visit to, 126

 Marshall, Chief Justice, 38

 Marshall, Humphrey, duel with Henry Clay, 55;
   recognizes Toombs at New Orleans, 305

 Martin, Major Luther, gives Toombs his parole papers, 291;
   his house raided, 292

 Maryland, invasion of, 262

 Mason, A. D., commissioner to Europe, 229

 Mason, James M., represents Virginia in U. S. Senate, 68;
   reads Calhoun's last speech, 79, 107

 Massachusetts, power of Abolitionists in, 109;
   withdraws from Baltimore Convention, 182

 Mattox, Col. W. H., shelters Toombs, 292

 Maximilian, Emperor, defeat and execution of, 233

 Maybrick, Mrs., 9

 McClellan, Gen., succeeds McDowell, 238;
   disputes with Lincoln, 239;
   marches up the peninsula, 244

 McDaniel, H. D., frames railroad law, 351

 McDonald, Charles J., relief measures of, 34-37;
   reëlected, 37;
   supports central bank scheme, 38;
   represents Georgia at Nashville convention, 85;
   nominated for governor, 86;
   Toombs on the nomination of, 90;
   supported by Berrien, 93;
   defeated, 93;
   opposition to Toombs, 158

 McDowell, Gen., succeeded by McClellan, 238

 McDuffie, George, as a lawyer, 16;
   Toombs' contentions with, 45-51;
   Democratic leader, 51

 McKennon, ----, resignation from Interior Department, 101

 McMillan, Robert, as a lawyer, 16;
   defeated by Toombs, 93

 Mediterranean, visit to, 126

 Memminger, C. G., as a lawyer, 21;
   Secretary of Treasury of Confederate States, 221

 Merriweather, ----, Whig leader, 51

 Mexican war, fruits of, 60

 Mexico, defense of, in Texas question, 53;
   Toombs' opinions on conquest of, 59;
   the Clayton Compromise, 61;
   troubles over territory acquired from, 67;
   Toombs favors purchase of, 195;
   French schemes in, 233

 Might against right, 112

 Milledge, Gov. John, 7

 Milledgeville, Toombs in General Assembly at, 17;
   Toombs' practice in, 22, 123;
   doctrine of States' Rights, affirmed at convention of 1833, 52;
   convention of 1850 at, 86;
   call for State convention in 1860 at, 179;
   meeting of State Sovereignty convention at in 1861, 209

 Miller, Andrew J., 16

 Mirabeau, Toombs compared with, 46, 70

 Mississippi, position in secession question, 97;
   delegates leave Charleston convention, 177;
   secession of, 213

 Mississippi River, views on appropriations for, 189-191

 Missouri, sends settlers to Kansas, 115, 159;
   representation at Baltimore convention, 182;
   partial secession measures of, 233;
   government control of railroads in, 346

