Endowed with natural abilities well adapted for the acquisition of knowledge, and possessing
a taste for various branches of literature and science,--gifted, too, with engaging manners
and affability of disposition, he became, as he grew up, a general favourite amongst those
with whom he associated, and his immediate relatives indulged in fond hopes of his becoming
an honourable and useful charter.  His best friends, however, were sometimes anxious on his
account, lest the caresses of the world should turn aside his feet from the path of safety,
and prevent that entire surrender of heart and life to the requirements of the gospel, which
alone consists with true Christian discipleship, and affords a well-grounded expectation of
real usefulness and permanent well- being.  But he was open to receive the admonitions of his
friends, and there is reason to believe that the voice of Christian counsel was instrumental
to his good.

He was never very robust; and his application to study, in addition to his stated duties, was,
perhaps, not favourable to bodily vigour.  Before the expiration of his apprenticeship, he
became so enfeebled, as to cause his relations much anxiety; and as his uncle and aunt had
withdrawn from the Institution, the Committee of the School kindly acceded to their proposal
to remove him to their own house.  Here he soon rallied; and in the summer, of 1848, applied
for the situation of teacher of Sidcot School.  He entered upon the duties of the station with
earnestness and zeal; and the notice and encouragement which he there received, tended both
to render his occupation a delight, and to draw forth the more hidden depths of his character.
His heart was in his work, and the field of labour particularly congenial to his taste.

A few months, however, sufficed to bring on a return of delicacy, and rendered it advisable
that he should retire for a while from active duty; but the following year, apparently with
renovated powers, he again resumed his post.  For a while, he appeared to think that his health
was becoming confirmed; but about the commencement of another year, he was rapidly brought
low, and nearly disqualified for the performance of his school duties.  He was however retained
in his office, with delicate attention to his known wishes, until in the 4th month, 1850, he
was obliged to withdraw, and again make his uncle's house at Mountmelick his home.  The following
extracts from letters and memoranda written previous to his leaving Sidcot, show the state
of his mind at that period.

2nd mo. 10th.  "I often feel,--oftener than ever, that the thread of life is in me weak,--very
weak; and, oh! I am sometimes almost overwhelmed with the retrospects, and prospects, this
feeling opens to my view.  I feel that I have been pursuing false jewels, sometimes those which
have no appearance even of external brilliance, and the Pearl has escaped my notice.  I have,
I believe, earnestly desired that I may be enabled to see the true and real beauty of the Pearl,
and its inestimable value, in such a light, that nothing may again warp my attention from it."

2nd mo. 23rd, 1850.  "My weakness of body, and frequent illnesses, have brought before my mind
the great uncertainty of my continuing long in this scene of probation.  I feel that I have
lived hitherto 'without God in the world,' plunged in sin and darkness; that my sins are a
greater burden than I can bear; and unless my all merciful God and Father, through his dear
Son, forgive them, and relieve me from them, I fear they will draw me with them to the lowest
grave."

"I believe my heart's desire is, to walk in the narrow way,--to be the Lord's on his own terms,
and to be humbled even in the dust.  The evil one suggests, that I can never be forgiven, and
fills my soul with doubts and fears; but, oh Lord! thou hast said, 'He that cometh to me, I
will in no wise cast out.'"

2nd mo. 24th.  "Strong desires are in my heart, that I may be favoured with an assurance of
forgiveness; but, oh! I fear that my repentance is not sincere, that the pride of the world
still holds place in my heart. Oh Lord!  I pray thee that thou wilt use thy sharp threshing
instrument, and break in pieces all that is at variance with thy holy will."

"This is First-day.  Be pleased to keep the door of my lips, Oh Father! and reign absolutely
in my thoughts; grant that meeting may be a time of favour and visitation, and that I may be
enabled to wait patiently for thee.  Oh! that I could keep the world from pouring on me as
a flood, at such times: Thou, gracious Father, canst enable me to do this."

3rd mo. 1st.  "Struggles seem to be my portion, in which the world, the flesh, and the devil
often seem likely to get the victory.  Lord, grant through the blessed Saviour, that if I have
found the good part, nothing may be permitted to take it from me.  I greatly desire an increase
of faith.  Alas!  I feel the little I have fail sometimes."

6th.  "Oh! that none of the Lord's intentions respecting me, may be frustrated by my disobedience
and unwatchfulness.  Oh! I feel that I am indolent and very lukewarm, if not cold altogether,
in attending to my soul's salvation, and in doing all for the Lord's glory.  Thou knowest,
oh Lord! that I am very weak in body; but, oh! grant that I may not make that a cover for indolence
and lukewarmness.  Thou hast known my peculiar trials, and I thank thee that thou hast, through
the dear Lamb, granted me strength to bear them."

After his return to Mountmelick, this dear youth lived seven weeks, and during this time his
company was most sweet and instructive; the tenor of his conduct and conversation being beautifully
regulated by the influence of the divine Spirit, bringing, in great measure, as there was reason
to believe, every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ; and the composure and
serenity of his countenance, clearly indicated the sweet peace which pervaded his mind.

About the end of Fifth Month, it became evident that the final change was drawing near.  This
he was enabled to look to without dismay; saying, when a fear was expressed that he could not
continue long: "I cannot say that I have any fear."

On the night of the 2nd of 6th Month, he said: "I wish I could feel a stronger assurance of
acceptance with the Almighty;" and afterwards he requested to have the 23rd Psalm read to him.

The next morning, sitting up in his bed, he remarked: "There remaineth a rest for the people
of God;" and, after a pause, "I want more of that faith, of which I fear I possess so little;
and yet, when I have asked for what was proper and needful for me, it has not been denied.
Oh! all that is of the world, and all that is in it, are worthless in my sight.  If the Lord
has any work for me to do on earth, I trust I am willing to do it; but if not, I have no wish
to stay."  Oh!  I hope my sins are gone beforehand to judgment; but there seem to be so many
fresh sins, I have so much time that I do not improve as I ought; but the poor weak body and
this weak mind too!"  On its being remarked, that we did not serve a hard master, he seemed
comforted, and continued, "Oh! that I could see the pearl gates; but I fear I have not faith
enough, nor love enough to love Him perfectly who first loved me, and died for me, yes! even
for me!  Oh! I desire to throw myself at his feet; how I wish I could love him better, and
serve him more."

The whole of Fourth-day he seemed fast sinking, and calmly spoke of death as very near.  He
craved for patience, again and again, making use of many sweet expressions as his end drew
near.  "O Jesus! sweet Jesus, come!" and placing his hands together, supplicated thus: "Oh,
dear Lord! if it be thy will, be pleased to take me, for the sake of thy dear Son." And, again,
"Thy will be done."  He remarked, "I believe I am passing through the dark valley of the shadow
of death;" and on the hope being expressed that he would be supported through, he responded,
"Through mercy!"  Soon after this, he sank into a quiet sleep, which lasted some hours; and,
shortly after waking, the unfettered spirit took its flight so gently, as scarcely to be perceptible
to those around.

FRANCES HENSHAWE THORPE, Overbury, Tewkesbury.  Widow of Thomas Thorpe.  65 10mo. 5 1849

WILLIAM TODHUNTER, Dublin.  46 1mo. 19 1850

SUSANNA TODHUNTER, Dublin.  Widow of John Todhunter.  74 2mo. 2 1850

SUSANNA TODHUNTER, Dublin.  Daughter of Thomas H. and Hannah Todhunter. 1 8mo. 30 1850

CATHERINE TOMS, Amersham.  67 1mo. 8 1850

ALEXANDER TOWNSEND, Rathrush, Kilconnor.  70 12mo. 7 1849

CROUDSON TUNSTALL, Alvaston Grove, Nantwich.  An Elder.  68 11mo. 17 1849

Dedication to the cause of truth, marked the character of our dear friend; and divine grace
wrought effectually in him--breaking the obstructions of the natural mind--smoothing the rugged
path of life, and enabling him to rejoice in the mercy which followed him, and which was his
support through many tribulations.

It was his earnest desire to know in himself a growth in the truth, and to have his building
firm on the Rock of ages.  His diligence in the support of our meetings for worship and discipline,
and the reverent frame of his spirit in these meetings, was animating and exemplary to his
friends, as was also his daily circumspect walk.  The chastenings of divine love produced profitable
experience, and being accepted by him, with humble gratitude and prayerful submission, his
heart was enriched by spiritual blessings.  When near the confines of time, and the power of
utterance nearly gone, he was reminded by a friend of the faithfulness and tender mercy of
our Saviour, when he emphatically replied,--"That is my only comfort."  Thus under the rapid
decay of the outward man, he possessed a peaceful mind, in that blessed hope which had been
in his day, as the anchor to his soul--"sure and steadfast."

THOMAS WADDINGTON, Penketh.  49 9mo. 3 1850

JOHN WAITHMAN, Yealand.  49 11mo. 2 1849

MARIA WALKER, Wooldale, Yorkshire.  Daughter of Samuel Walker.  24 10mo. 18 1849

HANNAH WALKER, Dirtcar, Wakefield.  Wife of Robert Walker.  68 4mo. 3 1850

BARBARA WALLER, York.  70 11mo. 13 1849

The quiet acquiescence of this dear friend, in the divine will, under changes of circumstances
involving, to her energetic and lively mind, much suffering, appeared to many of her immediate
friends, deeply instructive.  In early life, she was, for several years, resident in the family
of her brother Stephen Waller, at Clapton; and during the long continued illness of his wife,
took charge of the family, including an interesting group of young children, between whom and
herself the tenderest affection subsisted.  On the restoration of her sister's health, she
came to reside with her brother Robert Waller, of York.

In the First month, 1829, at the solicitation of the committee, she consented to undertake,
for a time, the domestic care of the Boys' School, then first established by York Quarterly
Meeting, in that city. Though in delicate health, and with a voice which she could rarely raise
above a whisper, she soon became so warmly interested in the institution, as to prevent the
necessity for further inquiry for a female head.  Her active and executive mind, found here
a large field of usefulness, which she well occupied.  Her kind interest in the institution,
the scholars and the officers, increased from year to year.  Her ability in providing for and
securing the comfort of all around her, always conspicuous, was eminently so in times of sickness,
whether of more or less severity.  On these occasions, besides her power of skilfully ministering
to physical comforts, her quiet spirit, knowing where she herself had sought and found consolation,
could direct others to the same unfailing Source.

At the close of the year 1836, in consequence of the decease of her sister Hannah, the wife
of Robert Waller, she was called from the scene of her arduous, yet to her, pleasant labours;
the beneficial results of which were, the establishment of orderly arrangement, and plans of
domestic comfort, essential to the well-being of a school.  She remained with her brother at
Holdgate, till the time of his second marriage, when change was again her allotment.  After
a short absence from York she finally settled there.  Her declining health rendered repose
needful, although the liveliness of her spirits enabled her greatly to enjoy frequent intercourse
with her friends;--and the school, the scene of her former labours, was an object of continued
affectionate interest.

In recording these few incidents, which we well know, of themselves, are of little importance,
perhaps entirely insignificant to the general reader, we believe, nevertheless, that a useful
lesson may be conveyed. The path of our dear friend was, remarkably, not one of her own choosing;
most of the changes of place and circumstance which she experienced, involved much that was
painful; yet under all, the quiet, peaceful, thankful resignation which she was enabled to
attain, shewed where her hopes were anchored, and proved the power of divine grace to make
hard things easy.  For many months previous to her decease, she was confined to her couch,
and latterly to her bed.  During this period, she bore with unrepining patience, much bodily
suffering; but her cheerful and energetic mind still retained its characteristic vigour.  In
this, her last illness, the kind attentions, and tender cares, which she had so often ministered
to others, were abundantly repaid to herself.  In addition to the assiduous and faithful services
of the family with whom she had taken up her abode, and who became warmly attached to her,
she had for many weeks previous to her decease, the tenderest attention of one of her affectionate
nieces, of whose infant years she had been the watchful guardian.

A friend who frequently visited her on her bed of suffering, says, "In some of my last visits
to her, her expression of firm and loving reliance upon the Lord, whose support she had been
wont to seek in the time of health, as well as in that of suffering, was a sweet testimony
to the blessedness of having made him her portion.  She told me how comforted she had been
under great bodily weakness, when she felt unable definitely to put up her petitions, in the
lively remembrance that she had a never- failing Advocate with the Father, touched with a feeling
of her infirmities, ever living to make intercession for her.  'Oh!' she remarked, 'the sense
of it has been precious to me.'"  Thus peace and thankfulness were the frequent clothing of
her spirit, till her earthly house of this tabernacle was quietly dissolved, and exchanged,
we reverently believe, for 'a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.'

ALICE WALLER, The Howe, Halsted.  Widow of Robert Waller, of York.  76 6mo. 25 1850

Of the childhood of our friend we know but little.  Her parents were members of our religious
Society, and brought up their children in conformity with its practices.  She was, at rather
an early age, placed at the school for girls at York, which had, at that time, some peculiar
advantages in regard to the religious and moral care of the pupils.  But from this enclosure
she was soon recalled, to be the companion of her invalid mother; and at the early age of sixteen,
when her beloved parent was removed by death, she took the charge of her father's domestic
concerns, and resided with him till her marriage with Benjamin Horner of York.

Although the shortness of the period she remained at school, might be disadvantageous to her
in several respects, yet it is highly probable that, in her mother's sick chamber, some impressions
were made, and lessons learned, which were as seeds sown to bring forth fruit in a future day.

Her husband's circle of acquaintance was an extensive, and, in its character, a much varied
one; and, for some years, Alice Horner mingled much in gay society, occasionally frequenting
with her husband places of amusement, especially those in which music formed the chief attraction.
But during this period, in which she may be said to have lived to herself, she was not without
compunctuous visitations; and as the responsibilities of a mother came upon her, she increasingly
felt the seriousness of life, and the duty, as well as the privilege, of living to God, and
being enabled to look unto Him as a Father and a Friend.

These feelings appear to have gradually gained ascendancy in her mind, and her prevalent desire
became, to be a Christian upon Christ's own terms.  She felt herself as one who had been forgiven
much, and therefore loved much,--striving to be no more conformed to this world, but transformed
by the renewing of her mind.  Her conscience became not only enlightened, but tender; and yielding
to what she believed to be her duty to God, she not only refrained from all the public amusements
in which she had formerly taken pleasure, but acted in her associations with others, consistently
with her views as a Friend.  If in this strait path; walking much alone and inexperienced in
the way: she sometimes erred, we believe it was rather on the side of decision, than on that
of undue yielding.  She seemed to live under a sense of that saying of the apostle, "Whatsoever
is not of faith is sin."  And whilst the course which she pursued could not fail to restrict,
in some degree, her intercourse with the world, those with whom she still associated, (and
her circle continued to be a wide one,) appeared in general to estimate her motives; and many
of them entertained an increased love and respect for her character; and He who, above all
things, she desired to serve, was pleased abundantly to comfort and strengthen her in all her
trials.

The death of her only daughter, at the age of nineteen, as well as that of her husband after
a short illness, a few years subsequently, were close trials to her; but she bowed in humble
submission to these dispensations, and, under the chastening hand of the Lord, it became increasingly
evident, that the "one thing needful" was steadily kept in her view.  She was diligent in her
attendance of our religious meetings, and often remarked, that she had been permitted to find
in them "a resting place to her soul."

After her second marriage, with Robert Waller of Holdgate near York, her health, which for
a long time had not been strong, began more rapidly to decline, and at the death of her husband,
after a long and protracted illness, she was so complete an invalid, as to be chiefly confined
to her bed for many months together.  This was a great trial upon her faith and patience; but
her hope and trust in her Saviour's love never forsook her, and often through her long illness,
she was enabled to look forward with hope and joy to that time, when "absent from the body,"
she should be "present with the Lord."

Six months after her husband's death, she was removed, in an invalid carriage, to the residence
of her eldest son in Essex, whose house continued to be her home the remainder of her days.
In writing to a much beloved friend, from this quiet retreat soon after her arrival, she remarks,--"Every
comfort and every indulgence is allotted to me by my attentive children.  Oh what boundless
demands upon my gratitude are thus poured forth.  I would gladly hope not without a heartfelt
acknowledgment to that Almighty Giver, who is the author of all our manifold mercies. For all
things I reverently thank my God and Saviour, remembering you my dear friends, whom I have
left, with the truest affection."  To the same friend, who herself was suffering from illness,
she again writes, "Oh, dearest ---, how many of His dear children does the Lord keep long in
the furnace, yet if he do but grant his presence there, and watch over the refining process
he designs to be accomplished, there ought to be no complaining either of the length of time,
or the severity of the operation, but through all, the full fruits of resignation should be
brought forth in perfection, to his praise, and his glory.  That so it may be, my dear friend,
forms a wish on my own account as well as on thine, day by day.  The time has appeared long
to me, that I have been required to lay under the rod, but when we measure time as did the
Apostle of old, and think of it as a vapour that quickly passeth away, or as a shadow that
abideth not, we see that it is but for a little moment that our chastening can endure.  I cannot
forbear beholding my day as far spent; but I do rejoice to see heaven as a place of rest for
me,--yes, even for me! through the blood shed for my sins on Calvary's Mount.  This mercy in
Christ Jesus, how precious it is to dwell upon."

Alice Waller loved the company of all those that loved the Lord Jesus, and especially the messengers
of the gospel were acceptable to her.  On one occasion when receiving a visit from a friend,
whilst laid upon her bed of suffering, she, in great contrition, expressed her sense of her
heavenly Father's love and mercy to her, a poor creature, adding, "I feel bound to tell of
His marvellous goodness to me, even to me, by night and by day upon my bed, in seasons of trial
I have been comforted by my Saviour's presence."

In the beginning of the Sixth Month, 1850, she became more poorly, and both herself and her
children were impressed with the belief that her end was drawing near; on the 15th she passed
a very trying day, but in the evening revived a little and spoke most sweetly of the fulness
and clearness of her hope, and her perfect confidence in the love and mercy of her God, extended
to her for the sake of her beloved Saviour; she was full of sweetness and affection to all
around her, her heart overflowing with gratitude to God and man.  "Dear Hannah C. Backhouse,"
she remarked, "visited me a short time before I came here, and she said, 'I believe Jesus has
thrown his arm of everlasting love around thee, and is drawing thee nearer and nearer to himself,
and he will draw thee nearer and nearer, till at last He will press thee into his bosom.' 
It was a sweet message; I have often thought upon it since, and I now feel such close union
of spirit with God, that I cannot doubt it is even so."  On the passage of Scripture being
repeated, "The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him," she added, "yes,
and preserveth them.--'This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and delivered him from all
his troubles.'  The fear of the Lord has been my support for many years past."  And on being
reminded of that verse of Scripture, "Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me," she said, "He
has been my staff and my rod in the dark valley of death, keeping my head above the waters,
and he has given me hope full of immortality,--full of immortality! and I shall dwell in the
house of the Lord for ever; I humbly trust that such will be my portion."  She then remarked
"It is just a week to-day since I began to be so very ill;--strange conflict of the body, with
the mind so perfectly tranquil, in strong confirmation of the blessed promise, 'Thou wilt keep
him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee.'--I have often thought I heard the song
of Moses and of the Lamb, as I lay here in deep exhaustion."  At another time she remarked,
"I have often sinned, and erred much, but I have One in heaven that pleadeth for me."

She hailed with much joy the arrival of a beloved friend, and spoke of the event as filling
up the only remaining desire she had on earth; their meeting was a season of mutual love and
thanksgiving to the Lord.  On Second day, the 24th, she said, "I am so loosed from every thing
below, as I could not have believed;" and in the evening expressed that she was so filled with
thankfulness her heart was overflowing!  She intimated her belief, when her room was made ready
for the night, that it would be the last she should have to pass, and the next morning it became
evident that she was rapidly sinking.  It was said to her that it was a long and trying travel,
but she was near to a better land! when she quickly responded, "Yes, Emanuel's land:" and on
its being remarked, "The crown is nearly won;" she emphatically replied, "Oh, I wish it were
on!"  A short time after this, her redeemed spirit was gently liberated from the shackles of
mortality, to be, we humbly believe, "for ever with the Lord."

FANNY MARTIN WALLER, Guildford.  Daughter of the late Thomas Waller.  30 12mo. 14 1849

EDWARD WALLIS, Melksham.  Son of Abraham Wallis, of London.  26 3mo. 6 1850

JOHN WALTON, Southport.  61 1mo. 7 1850

ALFRED WATKINS, Eydon, Northamptonshire.  Son of John and Susanna Watkins.  16 4mo. 22 1850

JANE WATSON, Allonby, Cumberland.  85 10mo. 20 1849

FERGUS WATSON, Allonby.  90 1mo. 21 1850

ANN WATSON, Heworth, Newcastle-on-Tyne.  Wife of John Watson.  72 12mo. 6 1849

MARY WATSON, Cockermouth.  64 10mo 18 1849

LUCY BELL WESTWOOD, Brampton, Hunts.  Daughter of John and Elizabeth Westwood.  17 3mo. 19 1850

JOSEPH WHEELER, Birmingham.  81 11mo. 21 1849

THOMAS WHITE, Ratcliff, London.  80 3mo. 7 1850

JANE WHITE, Chesham, Bucks.  41 1mo. 2 1850

MARIA BELLA WHITE, Henley-on-Thames.  Widow of Gabriel G. White.  84 8mo. 17 1850

ANNE WHITFIELD, near Coothill, Ireland.  85 3mo. 12 1850

RICHARD WHITING, Tottenham.  84 7mo. 3 1850

ANNE WHITTEN, Roscrea, Ireland.  Widow.  72 3mo. 24 1850

MAUDLIN WICKETT, Darlington.  Widow of Benjamin Wickett.  94 11mo. 15 1849

WILLIAM WILLIAMS, Denbigh, Cheshire.  70 11mo. 2 1849

WILLIAM WILSON, Bradford.  82 11mo. 23 1849

The following account has much of it been taken from a brief memoir of William Wilson, which
appeared in the "Bradford Observer," and which has since been published as a tract.

William Wilson might truly be said to be "an Israelite indeed, in whom there was no guile."
He had his peculiarities of character, but with all, was singularly good, and we cannot doubt
that his prayers and his alms, had come up for a memorial before Him, who seeth in secret.

At the age of fifty, with an ample fortune, he relinquished a business, in which he had most
diligently laboured, when the full tide of prosperity was flowing in upon him, in order that
he might devote his time, and the means placed by Providence at his disposal, to the cause
of neglected and suffering humanity.

For more than thirty years it became the essential and exclusive employment of his life, to
explore and to relieve cases of poverty and distress, and in the accomplishment of this undertaking,
he employed the same assiduity and care, which he had been wont to exercise in the management
of his secular calling, distributing many times at the rate of a thousand pounds a year.

As a steward of the gifts of God, he carefully invested his money so as to secure a fair rate
of interest, and on no occasion did he relax from the utmost exactness in his monetary dealings;
and yet it is believed that his personal and domestic expenditure never reached 150 pounds
per annum.

His house, like his person, was a pattern of plainness and simplicity. His furniture consisted
of nothing fashionable or superfluous; and his table was equally marked by comfort and frugality.

He was a warm advocate in the cause of Temperance, and was deeply interested in the subject
of "the prevention of Cruelty to Animals."

Of Tracts, he must have paid for, and circulated gratuitously, some millions!  His whole time
and energies were fully employed, and often heavily taxed, in devising and carrying out schemes
of mercy and benevolence, and his life presented one uniform tenor of consistent piety.  To
strangers he might appear reserved, but his apparent reserve only resulted from his constitutional
modesty, and retiring habits, whilst to those who enjoyed his friendship, he was frank, open,
and intelligent in no ordinary degree.

William Wilson was never robust, but toward the close of his life, his feebleness became more
apparent; for more than a week he was confined to his bed, but without any urgent symptom of
disease.  His mind was calm and peaceful,--he knew and loved his Saviour, and through His mediation,
we cannot doubt he has inherited the blessing to the pure in heart, leaving behind him, in
many respects, an example worthy to be followed, practically bearing a noble testimony to "christian
moderation and temperance in all things," and against that covetousness which is idolatry.
The memory of such a man is blessed.

ELIZABETH WILSON, Rawden.  69 4mo. 12 1850

MARY WILSON, Kendal.  Widow.  60 1mo. 31 1850

JAMES WILSON, Elm Farm, Liverpool.  76 10mo. 31 1849

ELIZABETH WOOD, Chelmsford.  68 1mo. 17 1850

JANE WOOD, Highflatts.  Wife of John Wood.  28 4mo. 4 1850

FRANCIS WRIGHT, Kettering.  76 5mo. 13 1850

THOMAS WRIGHT, Cork.  61 10mo. 9 1849

Many, both within the limits of our own Society and out of it, can bear testimony to the integrity,
benevolence, and Christian deportment of this dear friend.  In his transactions with his fellow-men,
he was particularly careful not to over-reach, or to avail himself of advantages subversive
to their interests; and in the social circle, as well as among the poor, his kindness of disposition
was conspicuous.  During the scarcity of provision in Ireland, his liberality was great, and
his exertions on behalf of the destitute almost unremitting.

His illness commenced in the early part of the 9th month, 1849, and on finding that the complaint
did not yield to remedies, he expressed his earnest desire for resignation to the divine will,
remarking, that whatever might be the termination, he believed "all would be well."  He intimated,
that he had not been one who could give much expression to his religious feelings, but that
for many years his mind had been daily exercised before the Lord on his own behalf, as well
as on that of his family.  The prosperity of our religious Society lay very near to his heart,
and he expressed his earnest desire for its preservation in "humility and simplicity."

The patience with which he bore the debility attendant upon his complaint was remarkable; His
mind expanded in love to his family, his friends, and to all the world, repeating emphatically,
"I love them all."

He frequently spoke of his willingness to depart; and as his illness advanced, there appeared
an increasing sweetness and solemnity in his manner, and he mostly addressed those about him
in terms of affection, expressing his thankfulness for their attention, and desiring that the
Lord would strengthen them.  On a hope being expressed that his mind was peaceful, he replied,
"Yes, quite so."  He took an affectionate leave of his wife and those around him; after which
nature rapidly sank, and he quietly, and it is humbly believed, peacefully expired.

ELIZA WRIGHT, Sutton, Cambridgeshire.  Daughter of Thomas and Mary Wright.  7 9mo. 8 1850

THOMAS WEIGHT, Sutton.  49 9mo. 16 1850

HENRY WRIGHT, Middlesboro.  30 9mo. 10 1849

JOHN FULLER YOUELL, Yarmouth.  28 12mo. 1 1849

INFANTS whose names are not inserted.

Under one month . . . Boys 1 . . . Girls 1

From one to three months . . . do. 2 . . . do. 3

From three to six months . . . do. 1 . . . do. 3

From six to twelve months . . . do. 1 . . . do. 1

HANNAH CHAPMAN BACKHOUSE.

Died 6th of 5th month, 1850.

Hannah Chapman Backhouse was the daughter of Joseph and Jane Gurney; she was born at Norwich
the 9th of 2nd Month, 1787.  Of her very early life she has left but little record.  She disliked
study, and was fond of boyish sports, until about the age of thirteen, when she began to feel
enjoyment in reading.

Possessed of a naturally powerful and energetic mind, with talents of a very superior order,
she soon began to take great delight in study, and was ambitious to excel in every thing that
she undertook.  Drawing she pursued with intense eagerness, and in this and other acquirements,
she made great proficiency.  Until about the age of seventeen, her highest enjoyment was derived
from the cultivation of the intellectual powers, and in the endeavour to raise these to their
highest perfection, she imagined the greatest happiness to consist.  In her journal she writes:--"My
thoughts have been this week, one continued castle in the air of being an artist; the only
reality they were built on, was my having painted in oils better than I thought I could, and
a feeling that I shall in a little time succeed, and an unbounded ambition to do so.  I have
had many arguments with myself, to know if it would be right.  I think it would, if I could
make good use of it."

But gradually she found that no object which had this world for its limit, could satisfy the
cravings of an immortal soul.  She began to feel that she was formed for higher purposes than
the gratification of self in its most refined and plausible form, and in 1806, we note the
gradual unfolding of that change of view, which through the operation of the Holy Spirit, led
her to the unreserved surrender of her whole being to the service of her Lord;--a surrender
that in so remarkable a manner marked her unwavering path through the remaining portion of
her dedicated life. Speaking of this period, after her first attendance of the Yearly Meeting,
she says,--

July, 1806.  "This time, for almost the first in my life, I seem come to a stand in the objects
of my darling pursuits, which I may say have been almost entirely the pursuit of pleasure,
through the medium of the understanding.  This I feel must be a useless search, for the further
I go, the more unattainable is the contentment which I hoped a degree of excellence might have
produced;--the further I go, the further does my idea of perfection extend; therefore this
way of attaining happiness I find is impossible.  Never in my life was I so sensible of the
real weakness of man, though to all appearance so strong; for I am persuaded that it is almost
impossible to conduct oneself through this world, without being sincerely religious.  The human
mind must have an object, and let that object be the attainment of eternal happiness. * * *
After such considerations, can I be so weak as not to make religion my only pursuit?  That
which will, I believe, bring my mind into beautiful order, and, rendering all worldly objects
subservient to its use, harmonize the whole, and fit it to bear fruit to all eternity, and
the fruit of righteousness is peace.  I have felt my mind very much softened of late, and more
and more see the beauty of holiness, but all the progress I can say that I have made towards
it, is in loving it more;--yet I feel I have a great way to go before my heart is entirely
given up."

Feb. 9th, 1807.  "To-day I am twenty; let me endeavour to describe with sincerity what twenty
years have effected upon me; how difficult self- love and blindness make answering the questions,
What am I?  How far am I advanced in the great end of being, the making such use of my time
here, that it may bear fruit when time with me is over?  When I look upon myself with the greatest
seriousness, how ill do I think of myself!  I see myself endowed with powers, which I often,
(I hope, with a pure and unfeigned heart,) wish may be applied aright.  But in my mind, what
strong 'bulls of Bashan' compass me about!  What I fear most, and that which sometimes comes
upon me most awfully, is, that my will is not properly brought into subjection. * * * Often
when clothed with something of heavenly love, do I feel that I had rather be a door-keeper
in the house of my God, than dwell in king's palaces, but I fear the general tendency of my
pursuits would make me more fit for the latter than the former.  What I want and do most sincerely
wish for, is, that I may be truly humble, and that where pride now reigns, humility may prevail;
and where ambition, contentment."

In 1808, the death of a favourite first cousin appears to have been the means of greatly deepening
her serious impressions, and of increasing the desire to "relieve herself," as she expresses
it, "from the miserable state of inconsistency in which a gay Friend is situated."  A short
time subsequent to this period, she writes:--

May, 1808.  "With my father and mother I left the Grove this morning, with a mind much softened,
though not afflicted by parting with those I love, earnestly wishing that what I was going
to attend,--the Yearly Meeting, might stamp more deeply the impressions I had received.  We
reached Epping that night.  I felt very serious; Love seemed to have smitten me, and under
that banner, I earnestly hoped that I might be enabled to partake of whatever might be set
before me in the banqueting house.  I saw that it would be right for me to say thee, and thou,
to everybody, and I begged that I might be so kept in love as to be enabled to do it,--that
love might draw me, not fear terrify me."

"How deeply I felt to enjoy First-day, and was strengthened at meeting. For the first time,
to-day I called the days of the week numerically, on principle, it cost me at first a blush.
This day has afforded me deeper and sweeter feelings than any I have yet passed; surprise and
ridicule I have felt to be useful!"

"Left Bury Hill early: I can look back to the time I have spent here as the happiest in my
life; and I have earnestly wished that my example and influence in future life, may be useful
to those whom, never before my mind was so altered, did I love with so sweet or so great an
affection."

After alluding to some further change, she writes; "I felt increasingly the weight of advocating
the cause I have engaged in; oh! may no word or action of mine, stain the character I am assuming,
and may no self-exaltation be the consequence: the mind, I feel, must be kept deep indeed,
to avoid the rocks that do every where surround."

6th Month, 1808.  "Went to meeting--thought that by observing the commandment, and confessing
Christ before men, we should only be showing the beautiful effect of obedience, in the fruit
of the Spirit it produces,--that it does not consist in speech, dress, or behaviour, but that
by being obedient in these and all things, to the law written in our hearts; we should be overshadowed
by that sweetness and quietness of spirit, the fruits of which would prove whose government
we are under."

7th Month, 1808, Cromer.  "Walked on the shore, the sky was illuminated by the setting sun
the scene was of nature's greatest beauty, I could not speak, but it was not the effect of
the scene.  Such scenes in which I used to revel, have lost much of their influence in the
inferior peace they bring, to that which a few small sacrifices, the effect of obedience, produce."

