This is, however, not the case. Starting from a long line of models, Sterne's Tristram Shandy
among others, Münchhausen resembles the diffusive works of similar title by Raspe (1785) and
Bürger (1787). It takes its name from Hieronymus Karl Friedrich, Baron of Münchhausen (1720-1797),
and satirizes many of the whimsicalities of Herman Ludwig Heinrich, Prince of Pückler-Muskau
(1785-1871). And it flagellates again and again such bizarre literary and intellectual phenomena
of the time as Raupach's Hohenstaufen dramas, Görres' mysticism, Menzel's calumniations, Eduard
Gans' liberalism, Bettina's pretensions, Young Germany's reaction, even the Indian studies
of the Schlegels and Alexander von Humboldt's substantial scholarship, so that, for the general
reader, the larger part of the work is a sealed book. Its references are obscure, its satire
abstruse, its humor vague. Even Ferdinand Freiligrath, Immermann's contemporary and friend,
declined, on the ground of lack of familiarity with the allusions, to write a commentary to it.

According to Immermann's own statement, he began Münchhausen without a shimmer of an idea as
to how he would finish it; but he finished it, having in the meantime gone through a complete
inner transformation, in a way that surprised even himself and greatly pleased his readers.
We have here, consequently, a novel which, though written as a whole, falls naturally into
two parts, the one negative and satirical, the other positive and human. And odd indeed is
the situation in the negative part.

As in Die Epigonen, the scene is laid in Westphalia. The impoverished Baron Schnuck-Puckelig-Erbsenscheucher,
a faithful representative of the narrow-minded and prejudiced nobility, lives with his prudish,
sentimental daughter, Emerentia, in the dilapidated castle, Schnick Schnack-Schnurr. Their
sole companion is the daft school-teacher, Agesel, who, having lost, from too much study of
phonetics, the major part of his never gigantic mind, imagines that he is a direct descendant
of the Spartan King Agesilaus. With these occupants and no more, the castle resembles a harmless
home for the insane. But one day Münchhausen, the prince of liars and chief of swindlers, accompanied
by his servant, Karl Buttervogel, the Sancho Panza of the story, comes to the castle. His presence
enlivens; his interminable stories, through which Immermann satirizes the tendencies of the
time, delight at first, then tire, then become intolerable. To maintain his influence, he suggests
to the old Baron the establishment of a stock company for the selling of compressed air, assuring
this gullible old soul that hereby his fortunes can be retrieved and his appointment as Privy
Councilor can be realized. The Baron, though pleased, enters into the proposition with caution.
But Münchhausen, unable to execute his scheme, finds himself in an embarrassing dilemma from
which he disentangles himself by mysteriously disappearing and never again coming to light.
Emerentia has in the meantime fallen in love with Karl Buttervogel, whom she erroneously looks
upon as a Prince in disguise. At the prospect of so humble a son-in-law, the Baron becomes
frantic, violently removes Buttervogel from the castle, which, as a result of the Baron's ravings,
falls to the ground with a crash and a roar--a catastrophe which reminds one of Poe's Fall
of the House of Usher--and the Baron and Agesel are restored to their senses.

The chief trouble with this fantastic story is that it lacks artistic measure and objective
plausibility. Immermann, omnivorous reader that he was, wrote this part of his book, not from
life, but from other books. And even granting that he carried out his plan with a reasonable
degree of cleverness, the average reader is not sufficiently acquainted with Kerner and Platen
and their long line of queer contemporaries to see the point, so he skips over this part of
the work and turns at once to Der Oberhof.

It is needless to state that Immermann never wrote a work with such a title. Editors and publishers
have simply followed the lead of readers and brought out separately the best parts of the complete
novel under the heading of the third chapter of the second book. There is not even final agreement
as to how much of the original work should be included in order to make a well-rounded story.
The editions, of which there are many, vary in size from seventy-five to three hundred and
seventy-five octavo pages. The best arrangement is that which includes the second, fifth, seventh
and eighth books.

Here again we meet with three leading characters--the very honest and reliable Hofschulze,
the owner of the "Upper Farm," in whom are personified and glorified the best traditions of
Westphalia; Lisbeth, the daughter of Münchhausen and Emerentia, the connecting link between
romantic and realistic Germany; and Oswald, the Suabian Count disguised as a hunter, a thoroughly
good fellow. But this by no means exhausts the list of pleasing personalities. The good Deacon,
who had lost interest in life and faith in men while tutoring a young Swedish Count, and who
was made over by his new work among the solid middle class of Westphalia, is a character of
real charm; his ideals are humanitarian in the best sense, his wisdom is sound, his help generous.
Jochem, Oswald's servant, is the incarnation of fidelity; the old Captain, who finds himself
today in a French and tomorrow in a Prussian mood, is instructive at least, for such dualistic
patriotism was not unknown at the time; the Collector follows his vocation with inspiring avidity,
the Sexton is droll without knowing it, and each of the Hofschulze's servants has something
about him that separates him from his confederates even though he be nameless. There are no
supernumeraries among the characters.

By reason of her common sense and energy, Lisbeth had for some time kept the old Baron's head
above water. One of her duties was to collect taxes, a business which frequently brought her
to the "Upper Farm," where she was always sure of a kind reception. Oswald, too, came to the
Farm one day to settle an affair of honor with Münchhausen. Instead of finding him, however,
he meets Lisbeth, and here the love story begins.

While waiting at the Farm for Jochem to find Münchhausen, Oswald agrees to recompense the Hofschulze
for his hospitality by keeping the wild deer away from the grain fields. His duties are nominal;
he exchanges views with the men of the Farm, corresponds with his friends in Suabia, wanders
over the fields and occasionally shoots at some game without ever hitting. His room must have
been occupied before his arrival by a beautiful girl, for in it he finds a tidy hood and kerchief
that betray the charms of their wearer, and he dreams of her at night. And one day, while wandering
through the woods, he catches sight of a lovely girl looking into the calyx of a wonderful
forest flower. He is on the point of going up to her when her very charm holds him back, and
that night he dreams again of his beautiful predecessor in the Hofschulze's corner room.

And then, while wandering again through the pathless woods, he shoots at a roe but hits Lisbeth,
the girl of his dreams. The wound is, however, slight, and by the time it has healed their
love has become perfect, so that, immediately after the wedding of the Hofschulze's daughter,
for whom Lisbeth had been a bridesmaid, and before the same altar at which the ceremony had
just been performed, the good Deacon pronounces the blessing upon the newly betrothed pair.

With the Deacon's official act over, imaginary troubles cease and real ones begin. Oswald,
grieved beyond expression to learn that Lisbeth is the daughter of Münchhausen and Emerentia,
is on the point of leaving the Farm immediately and Lisbeth forever; Lisbeth, having thought
all the time that her lover was a plain hunter, is in complete despair when told that he is
a real Count; the Hofschulze does not take kindly to the idea of their marriage, for Oswald
has not always revered Westphalian traditions, the secret tribunal, for example, as he should
have done; Oswald's friends in Suabia object to his marrying a foundling, and advise him to
come home and straighten out a love affair he has there before entering into a new and foreign
one; the doctor is not even certain that the wedding is hygienically wise. But love dispels
all fears and doubts, and the good Deacon makes Oswald and Lisbeth man and wife.

Immermann's lifelong attempts at the studied poetizations of traditional, aristocratic, high-flown
themes brought him but scant recognition even in his day, and they have since been well-nigh
forgotten. But when, one year before his death, he wrote an unpretentious love story taken
from the life of simple people whom he met on his daily walks, he thereby assured himself of
immortality. Few works prove more convincingly than Der Oberhof that great literature is neither
more nor less than an artistic visualization and faithful reflection of life. The reading of
this unassuming "village story," the first of its kind in German literature, warms the heart
and stirs the springs of living fancy, simply because it relates in terse and direct language
a series of incidents in the lives of very possible and very real human beings.

       *       *       *       *       *

KARL LEBRECHT IMMERMANN

THE OBERHOF (1839) TRANSLATED BY PAUL BERNARD THOMAS

CHAPTER I

THE JUSTICE OF THE ESTATE

With the sleeves of his shirt rolled up the old Justice of the estate was standing in the yard
between the barns and the farm buildings and gazing attentively into a fire which he had kindled
on the ground between stones and logs, and which was now crackling merrily. He straightened
around a small anvil which was standing beside it, laid down a hammer and a pair of tongs so
as to have them ready to grasp, tested the points of some large wheel-nails which he drew forth
from the breast-pocket of a leather apron he had tied around him, put the nails down in the
bottom of the rack-wagon, the wheel of which he was about to repair, carefully turned the rim
around until the place where the tire was broken was on top, and then made the wheel fast by
putting stones under it.

After he had again looked into the fire for a few moments, but not long enough to cause his
bright, sharp eyes to blink, he quickly thrust the tongs into it, lifted out the red-hot piece
of iron, laid it on the anvil, pounded it with the hammer so that the sparks flew in all directions,
clapped the still glowing piece of iron down on the broken place in the tire, hammered and
welded it fast with two heavy blows, and then drove the nails into their places, which was
easily done, as the iron was still soft and pliable.

A few very sharp and powerful blows gave the inserted piece its finishing touch. The Justice
kicked away the stones with which he had made the wheel fast, seized the wagon by its tongue
in order to test the mended tire, and in spite of its weight hauled it without exertion diagonally
across the yard, so that the hens, geese and ducks, which had been quietly sunning themselves,
flew, with loud cries, before the rattling vehicle, and a couple of pigs jumped up, grunting,
from their mud-holes.

Two men, the one a horse-dealer, the other a tax-collector or receiver, who were sitting at
a table beneath the large linden in front of the house and imbibing their drink, had been watching
the work of the robust old man.

"It must be true!" one of them, the horse-dealer, called out. "You would have made an excellent
blacksmith, Judge!"

The Justice washed his hands and face in a pail of water which was standing beside the anvil,
poured the water into the fire to extinguish it, and said:

"He is a fool who gives to the blacksmith what he can earn himself!"

He picked up the anvil as if it were a feather, and carried it, along with the hammer and tongs,
under a little shed which stood between the house and the barn, and in which there were standing,
or hanging, a work-bench, saws, chisels, and whatever other tools pertain to the carpenter's
or joiner's trade, as well as a quantity of wood and boards of many kinds.

While the old man was still busying himself under the shed, the horse-dealer said to the receiver:

"Would you believe it that he also repairs with his own hands all the posts, doors, thresholds,
boxes, and cases in the house, or if luck favors him makes new ones himself? I believe that
he could be an expert joiner, if he wanted to, and put together a first-class cabinet."

"You are wrong there," said the Justice, who had overheard the latter remark and who, having
taken off his leather apron, now emerged from the shed in a smock-frock of white linen and
sat down at the table with the two men.

A maid brought a glass to him also, and, after drinking the health of his guests, he continued:
"To make a post or a door or a threshold, all you need is a pair of sound eyes and a steady
hand, but a cabinet-maker has to have more than that. I once allowed my conceit to deceive
me into thinking that I could put together, as you call it, a first-class cabinet, because
I had handled plane and chisel and T-square more or less doing carpenter's work. I measured
and marked and squared off the wood and had everything fitted down to the inch. Yes, but now
when it came to the joining and gluing together, everything was all wrong; the sides were warped
and wouldn't come together, the lid in front was too large, and the drawers too small for the
openings. You can still see the contraption; I let it stand on the sill to guard me from future
temptation. For it always does a man good to have a reminder of his weakness constantly before
his eyes."

At this moment a loud neigh was heard from the stable across the yard. The horse-dealer cleared
his throat, spat, struck a light for his pipe, blew a dense cloud of smoke into the receiver's
face, and looked first longingly toward the stable, and then thoughtfully down at the ground.
Then he spat once more, removed the varnished hat from his head, wiped his brow with his sleeve,
and said: "Still this sultry weather!" Thereupon he unbuckled his leather money-pouch from
his body, threw it down on the table with a bang, so that its contents rattled and jingled,
untied the strings, and counted out twenty bright gold pieces, the sight of which caused the
receiver's eyes to sparkle, while the old Justice did not even look at them.

"Here is the money!" cried the horse-dealer, bringing his clenched fist down on the table with
a thump. "Do I get the brown mare for it? God knows, she's not worth a penny more!"

"Then keep your money, so that you won't suffer any loss!" replied the Justice cold-bloodedly.
"Twenty-six is my price, as I have already said, and not a farthing less! You've known me a
good many years, Mr. Marx, and you ought to realize by this time that dickering and beating
down don't work with me, because I never take back what I say. I ask for a thing what it is
worth to me, and never overcharge. So an angel with a trumpet might come down from heaven,
but he wouldn't get the bay mare for less than twenty-six!"

"But," exclaimed the horse-dealer, provoked, "business consists of demanding and offering,
doesn't it? I'd overcharge my own brother! When there is no more overcharging in the world,
business will come to an end."

"On the contrary," replied the Justice, "business will then take much less time, and for that
very reason will be more profitable. And besides that, both parties always derive much benefit
from a transaction involving no overcharge. It has always been my experience that, when an
overcharge is made, one's nature gets hot, and it results in nobody's knowing exactly what
he is doing or saying. The seller, in order to put an end to the argument, often lets his wares
go for a lower price than that which he had quietly made up his mind to charge, and the buyer,
on the other hand, just as often, in the eagerness and ardor of bidding, wastes his money.
Where there is absolutely no talk of abatement, then both parties remain beautifully calm and
safe from loss."

"Inasmuch as you talk so sensibly, you have, I presume, thought better of my proposal," broke
in the receiver. "As I, have already said, the government wants to convert into cash all the
corn due from the farms in this region. It alone suffers a loss from it, for corn is corn,
whereas money is worth so much today and so much tomorrow. Meanwhile, you see, it is their
wish to free themselves from the burden of storing up corn. Kindly do me the favor, then, to
sign this new cash-contract, which I have brought with me for that purpose."

"By no means!" answered the Justice vehemently. "For many hundreds of years corn, and only
corn, has been paid over from the Oberhof to the monastery, and the receiver's office will
have to content itself with that, just as the monastery has done. Does cash grow in my fields?
No! Corn grows in them! Where, then, are you going to get the cash?"

"You're not going to be cheated, you know!" cried the receiver.

"We must always stand by the old ways of doing things," said the Justice solemnly. "Those were
good times when the tablets with the lists of imposts and taxes of the peasantry used to hang
in the church. In those days everything was fixed, and there were never any disagreements,
as there are nowadays all too often. Afterwards it was said that the tablets with the hens
and eggs and bushels and pecks of grain. interfered with devotion, and they were done away
with." With that he went into the house.

"There is a stubborn fellow for you!" cried the horse-dealer, when he could no longer see his
business friend. He put his varnished hat back on his head again with an air of vexation. "If
he once makes up his mind not to do something, the devil himself cannot bring him around. The
worst of it is that the fellow rears the best horses in this region, and after all, if you
get right down to it, lets them go cheap enough."

"An obstinate, headstrong sort of people it is that lives hereabouts," said the receiver. "I
have just recently come from Saxony and I notice the contrast. There they all live together,
and for that reason they have to be courteous and obliging and tractable toward one another.
But here, each one lives on his own property, and has his own wood, his own field, his own
pasture around him, as if there were nothing else in the world. For that reason they cling
so tenaciously to all their old foolish ways and notions, which have everywhere else fallen
into disuse. What a lot of trouble I've had already with the other peasants on account of this
stupid change in the mode of taxation! But this fellow here is the worst of all!" "The reason
for that, Mr. Receiver, is that he is so rich," remarked the horse-dealer. "It is a wonder
to me that you have put it through with the other peasants around here without him, for he
is their general, their attorney and everything; they all follow his example in every matter
and he bows to no one. A year ago a prince passed through here; the way the old fellow took
off his hat to him, really, it looked as if he wanted to say: 'You are one, I am another.'
To expect to get twenty-six pistoles for the mare! But that is the unfortunate part of it,
when a peasant acquires too much property. When you come out on the other side of that oak
wood, you walk for half an hour by the clock through his fields! And everything arranged in
first rate order all the way! The day before yesterday I drove my team through the rye and
wheat, and may God punish me if anything more than the horses' heads showed up above the tops.
I thought I should be drowned."

"Where did he get it all?" asked the receiver.

"Oh!" cried the horse-dealer, "there are a lot more estates like this around here; they call
them Oberhofs. And if they do not surpass many a nobleman's, my name isn't Marx. The land has
been held intact for generations. And the good-for-nothing fellow has always been economical
and industrious, you'll have to say that much for him I You saw, didn't you, how he worked
away merely to save the expense of paying the blacksmith a few farthings? Now his daughter
is marrying another rich fellow; she'll get a dowry, I tell you! I happened to pass the linen
closet; flax, yarn, tablecloths and napkins and sheets and shirts and every possible kind of
stuff are piled up to the ceiling in there. And in addition to that the old codger will give
her six thousand thalers in cash! Just glance about you; don't you feel as if you were stopping
with a count?"

During the foregoing dialogue the vexed horse-dealer had quietly put his hand into his money-bag
and to the twenty gold pieces had added, with an air of unconcern, six more. The Justice appeared
again at the door, and the other, without looking up, said, grumbling; "There are the twenty-six,
since there is no other way out of it."

The old peasant smiled ironically and said: "I knew right well that you would buy the horse,
Mr. Marx, for you are trying to find one for thirty pistoles for the cavalry lieutenant in
Unna, and my little roan fills the bill as if she had been made to order. I went into the house
only to fetch the gold-scales, and could see in advance that you would have bethought yourself
in the meantime."

The old man, who one moment displayed something akin to hurry in his movements and the next
the greatest deliberation, depending upon the business with which he happened to be occupied,
sat down at the table, slowly and carefully wiped off his spectacles, fastened them on his
nose, and began carefully to weigh the gold pieces. Two or three of them he rejected as being
too light. The horse-dealer raised a loud objection to this, but the Justice, holding the scales
in his hands, only listened in cold-blooded silence, until the other replaced them with pieces
having full weight. Finally, the business was completed; the seller deliberately wrapped the
money in a piece of paper and went with the horse-dealer to the stable, in order to deliver
the horse over to him.

The receiver did not wait for them to return. "One can't accomplish anything with a clod-hopper
like that," he said. "I But in the end if you don't come around and pay us up regularly, we
will--" He felt for the legal documents in his pocket, realized by their crackling that they
were still there, and left the yard.

Out of the stable came the horse-dealer, the Justice, and a farm-hand who was leading behind
him two horses, the horse-dealer's own and the brown mare which he had just bought. The Justice,
giving the latter a farewell pat, said "It always grieves one to sell a creature which one
has raised, but who can do otherwise?--Now behave well, little brownie!" he added, giving the
animal a hearty slap on her round, glossy haunches. In the meantime the horse-dealer had mounted.
With his gaunt figure, his short riding-jacket under the broad-brimmed, varnished hat, his
yellow breeches over his lean thighs, his high leather boots, his large, heavy spurs, and his
whip, he looked like a highwayman. He rode away cursing and swearing, without saying good-by,
leading the brown mare by a halter. He never once glanced back at the farm-house, but the mare
several times bent her neck around and emitted a doleful neigh, as if complaining because her
good days were now over. The Justice remained standing with the laborer, his arms set akimbo,
until the two horses had passed out of sight through the orchard. Then the man said: "The animal
is grieving."

"Why shouldn't she?" replied the Justice. "Aren't we grieving too? Come up to the granary--we'll
measure the oats."

CHAPTER II

ADVICE AND SYMPATHY

As he turned around toward the house with the laborer, he saw that the place under the linden
had already been reoccupied by new guests. The latter, however, had a very dissimilar appearance.
For three or four peasants, his nearest neighbors, were sitting there, and beside them sat
a young girl, as beautiful as a picture. This beautiful girl was the blond Lisbeth, who had
passed the night at the Oberhof.

I shall not venture to describe her beauty; it would only result in telling of her red cheeks
and blue eyes, and these things, fresh as they may be in reality, have become somewhat stale
when put down in black and white.

The Justice, without paying any attention to his long-haired neighbors in blouses, approached
his charming guest and said:

"Well, did you sleep all right, my little miss?" "Splendidly!" replied Lisbeth.

"What's the matter with your finger?--you have it bandaged," inquired the old man.

"Nothing," answered the young girl, blushing. She wanted to change the subject, but the Justice
would not allow himself to be diverted; grasping her hand, the one with the bandaged finger,
he said: "It's nothing serious, is it?"

"Nothing worth talking about," answered Lisbeth. "Yesterday evening when I was helping your
daughter with her sewing, the needle pricked my finger and it bled a little. That is all."

"Oho!" exclaimed the Justice, smirking. "And I notice that it is the ring-finger too! That
augurs something good. You doubtless know that when an unmarried girl helps an engaged one
to sew her bridal linen, and in doing it pricks her ring-finger, it means that she herself
is to become engaged in the same year? Well, you have my best wishes for a nice lover!"

The peasants laughed, but the blond Lisbeth did not allow herself to be disconcerted; she cried
out joyfully: "And do you know my motto? It runs:

  As far as God on lily fair
  And raven young bestows his care,
  Thus far runs my land;
  And, therefore, he who seeks my hand
  Must have four horses to his carriage
  Before I'll give myself in marriage.

"And," broke in the Justice--

  And he must catch me like a mouse,
  And hook me like a fish,
  And shoot me like a roe.

The report of a gun rang out nearby. "See, my little miss, it's coming true!"

"Now, Judge, make an end of your frivolous talk," said the young girl. "I have called to get
your advice, and so give it to me now without any more foolish nonsense." The Justice settled
himself in an attitude of dignity, ready to talk and listen. Lisbeth drew forth a little writing-tablet
and read off the names of the peasants among whom she had been going around during the past
few days for the purpose of collecting back-rent due her foster-father. Then she told the Justice
how they had refused to pay their debts and what their excuses had been. One claimed to have
paid up long ago, another said that he had only recently come into the farm, a third knew nothing
about the matter, a fourth had pretended that he couldn't hear well, and so forth and so forth;
so that the poor girl, like a little bird flying about in the winter in search of food and
not finding a single grain of corn, had been turned away empty-handed from one door after another.
But any one who thinks that these futile efforts had plunged her into grief is mistaken, for
nothing greatly disturbed her and she related the story of her irksome wanderings with a cheerful
smile.

The Justice wrote down on the table with chalk several of the names mentioned, and, when she
had reached the end of her list, said:

"As far as the others are concerned, they do not live with us and I have no authority over
them. If they are base enough to refuse to do their duty and to meet their obligations, then
simply strike out the names of the scamps, for you can never get anything out of a peasant
by a law-suit. But as against those who live in our precinct, I will help you to secure your
rights. We still have means of accomplishing that."

"Oho, Squire!" said one of the peasants to him, half-aloud. "You talk as if you always carried
the rope around with you in your coat-sleeve. When is the secret court to be held?"

"Be still, tree-warden!" interrupted the old man with earnestness. "Sneering remarks like that
might get you into trouble!"

The man addressed was disconcerted; he cast down his eyes and made no reply. Lisbeth thanked
the old man for his offer of help, and inquired about the roads and paths to the other peasants
whose names she still had left on her writing-tablet. The Justice pointed out to her the shortest
way to the nearest farm, which led across the Priests' Meadow, past the three mills and over
the Holle Hills. When she had put on her straw hat, taken her staff, expressed her thanks for
the hospitality shown her, and had thus made herself ready to leave, he begged her to make
her arrangements such that on her return she could stay for the wedding and a day thereafter.
He hoped that he would be able to give her by that time definite assurance in regard to the
rents, or, perhaps, even to give her the money itself to take home with her.

When the young girl's slender and graceful form had disappeared behind the last walnut-trees
at the farther end of the orchard, the peasants broached the subject which had brought them
to the Justice. The building of a new road, which was to establish a connection with the main
highway, threatened, if the idea were carried out, to deprive them of a few strips of their
land over which it was necessary to lay the new road. Against this loss, although the project
would redound to the advantage of all the surrounding peasantry, they were anxious to protect
themselves; and how to avert it was the question about which they were anxious to secure the
advice of the owner of the Oberhof.

"Good day! How are you?" called out a voice, well known in this locality. A pedestrian, a man
in respectable attire, but covered with dust from his gray gaiters to his green, visored cap,
had entered through the gate and approached the table, unnoticed at first by the conversers.

