Published May, 1907.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO

Hilda Greaves

AND THE DUMB COMPANIONS OF TAN-YR-ALLT THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED BY THEIR GRATEFUL AND AFFECTIONATE
FRIEND

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INVADER

CHAPTER I

Dinner was over and the ladies had just risen, when the Professor had begged to introduce them
to the new-comer on his walls. The Invader, it might almost have been called, this full-length,
life-size portrait, which, in the illumination of a lamp turned full upon it, seemed to take
possession of the small room, to dominate at the end of the polished-oak table, where the light
of shaded candles fell on old blue plates, old Venetian glass, a bit of old Italian brocade,
and chrysanthemums in a china bowl coveted by collectors. Every detail spoke of the connoisseurship,
the refined and personal taste characteristic of Oxford in the eighties. The authority on art
put up his eye-glasses and fingered his tiny forked beard uneasily.

"There's no doubt it's a good thing, Fletcher," he said, presently--"really quite good. But
it's too like Romney to be Raeburn, and too like Raeburn to be Romney. You ought to be able
to find out the painter, if, as you say, it's a portrait of your own great-grandmother--"

"He did say so!" broke in Sanderson, exultantly. "He said it was an ancestress. Fletcher, you're
a vulgar fraud. You've got no ancestress. You bought her. There's a sale-ticket still on the
frame under the projection at the right-hand lower corner. I saw it."

Sanderson was a small man and walked about perpetually, except when taking food: sometimes
then. He was a licensed insulter of his friends, and now stood before the picture in a belligerent
attitude. The Professor stroked his amber beard and smiled down on Sanderson.

"True, O Sanderson; and at the same time untrue. I did buy the picture, and the lady was my
great-grandmother once, but she did not like the position and soon gave it up. This picture
must have been done after she had given it up."

"Is this a conundrum or blather, invented to hide your ignominy in a cloud of words?" asked
Sanderson.

"It's a hors d'oeuvre before the story," interposed Ian Stewart, throwing back his tall dark
head and looking up at the picture through his eye-glasses, his handsome face alive with interest.
"'Tak' awa' the kickshaws,' Fletcher, 'and bring us the cauf.'"

The Professor gathered his full beard in one hand and smiled deprecatingly.

"I don't know how the ladies will like my ex-great-grandmother's story. It was a bit of a scandal
at the time."

"Never mind, Mr. Fletcher," cried a young married woman, with a face like a seraph, "we're
all educated now, and scandal about a lady with her waist under her arms becomes simply classical."

"Not so bad as that, Mrs. Shaw, I assure you," returned the Professor; "but I dare say you
all know as much as I do about my great-grandmother, for she was the well-known Lady Hammerton."

There were sounds of interest and surprise, for most of the party knew her name, and were curious
to learn how she came to be Professor Fletcher's great-grandmother. Mr. Fletcher explained:

"My great-grandfather was a distinguished professor in Edinburgh a hundred years ago. When
he was a widower of forty with a family, he was silly enough to fall in love with a little
miss of sixteen. He taught her Latin and Greek--which was all very well--and married her, which
was distinctly unwise. She had one son--my grandfather--and then ran away with an actor from
London. After that she made a certain sensation on the stage, but I suspect she was clever
enough to see that her real successes were personal ones; at all events, she made a good marriage
as soon as ever she got the chance. The Hammerton family naturally objected. You'll find all
about it in those papers which have come out lately. I believe, ladies, they were almost as
much scandalized by her learning as by her morals."

"She told Sydney Smith years after, I think," observed Stewart, "that she had to be a wit lest
people should find out she was a blue. There's a good deal about her in the Englefield Memoirs.
She travelled extraordinarily for a woman in those days, and most of the real treasures at
Hammerton House come from her collections."

"I thought they were nearly all burned in a great fire, and she was burned trying to save them,"
said Mrs. Shaw.

"A good many were saved," returned Fletcher; "she had rushed back to fetch a favorite bronze,
was seen hurling it out of the window--and was never seen again."

"She must have been a very remarkable woman," commented Stewart, meditatively, his eyes still
fixed on the picture.

"Know nothing about her myself," remarked Sanderson; "Stewart knows something about everybody.
It's sickening the way he spends his time reading gossip and calling it history."

"Gossip's like many common things, interesting when fossilized," squeaked a little, white-haired,
pink-faced old gentleman, like an elderly cherub in dress-clothes. He had remained at the other
end of the room because he did not care for pictures. Now he toddled a little nearer and every
one made way for him with a peculiar respect, for he was the Master of Durham, whose name was
great in Oxford and also in the world outside it. He looked up first at the pictured face and
then at Milly Flaxman, a young cousin of Fletcher's and a scholar of Ascham Hall, who had taken
her First in Mods, and was hoping to get one in Greats. The Master liked young girls, but they
had to be clever as well as pleasing in appearance to attract his attention.

"It's very like Miss Flaxman," he squeaked.

Every one turned their eyes from the picture to Milly, whose pale cheeks blushed a bright pink.
The blush emphasized her resemblance to her ancestress, whose brilliant complexion, however,
hinted at rouge. Milly's soft hair was amber-colored, like that of the lady in the picture,
but it was strained back from her face and twisted in a minute knot on the nape of her neck.
That was the way in which her aunt Lady Thomson, whose example she desired to follow in all
things, did her hair. The long, clearly drawn eyebrows, dark in comparison with the amber hair,
the turquoise blue eyes, the mouth of the pictured lady were curiously reproduced in Milly
Flaxman. Possibly her figure may have been designed by nature to be as slight and supple, yet
rounded, as that of the white-robed, gray-scarfed lady above there. But something or some one
had intervened, and Milly looked stiff and shapeless in a green velveteen frock, scooped out
vaguely around her white young throat and gathered in clumsy folds under a liberty silk sash.

Mrs. Shaw cried out enraptured at the interesting resemblance which had escaped them all, to
be instantly caught by the elderly cherub in the background, who did not care about art, while
the Professor explained that both Milly's parents were, like himself, great-grandchildren of
Lady Hammerton. The seraph now fell upon Milly, too shy to resist, had out her hair-pins in
a trice and fingered the fluffy hair till it made an aureole around her face. Then by some
conjuring trick producing a gauzy white scarf, Mrs. Shaw twisted it about the girl's head,
in imitation of the lady on the wall, who had just such a scarf, but with a tiny embroidered
border of scarlet, twisted turban-wise and floating behind.

"There!" she cried, pushing the feebly protesting Milly into the full light of the lamp the
Professor was holding, "allow me to present to you the new Lady Hammerton!"

There was a moment of wondering silence. Milly's pulses beat, for she felt Ian Stewart's eyes
upon her. Neither he nor any one else there had ever quite realized before what capacities
for beauty lay hid in the subdued young face of Milly Flaxman. She had nothing indeed of the
charm, at once subtle and challenging, of the lady above there. She, with one hand on the gold
head of a tall cane, looking back, seemed to dare unseen adorers to follow her into a magic,
perhaps a fatal fairyland of mountain and waterfall and cloud; a land whose dim mists and silver
gleams seemed to echo the gray and the white of her floating garments, its autumn leaves to
catch a faint reflection from her hair, while far off its sky showed a thin line of sunset,
red like the border of her veil. Milly's soft cheeks and lips were flushed, her eyes bright
with a mixture of very innocent emotions, as she stood with every one's eyes, including Ian
Stewart's, upon her.

But in a minute the Master took up Mrs. Shaw's remark.

"No," he said, emphatically; "not a new Lady Hammerton; only a rather new Miss Flaxman; and
that, I assure you, is something very preferable."

"I'm quite sure the Master knows something dreadful about your great-grandmother, Mr. Fletcher,"
laughed Mrs. Shaw.

"I think we'd better go before he tells it," interposed Mrs. Fletcher, who saw that Milly was
feeling shy.

When the ladies had left, the men reseated themselves at the table and there was a pause. Everyone
waited for the Master, who seemed meditating speech.

"My mother," he said--and somehow they all felt startled to learn the fact that the Master
had had a mother--"my mother knew Lady Hammerton in the twenties. She was often at Bath."

The thin, staccato voice broke off abruptly, and three out of the five other men present being
the Master's pupils, remained silent, knowing he had not finished. But Mr. Toovey, a young
don overflowing with mild intelligence, exclaimed, deferentially:

"Really, Master! Really! How extremely interesting! Now do please tell us a great deal about
Lady Hammerton."

The Master took no notice whatever of Toovey. He sat about a minute longer in his familiar
posture, looking before him, his little round hands on his little round knees. Then he said:

"She was a raddled woman."

And his pupils knew he had finished speaking. What he had said was disappointingly little,
but uttered in that strange high voice of his, it contained an infinite deal more than appeared
on the face of it. A whole discreditable past seemed to emerge from that one word "raddled."
Ian Stewart, to whose imagination the woman in the picture made a strange appeal, now broke
a lance with the Master on her account.

"She may have been raddled, Master," he said, "but she must have been very remarkable and charming
too. Hammerton himself was no fool, yet he adored her to the last."

The Master seemed to hope some one else would speak; but finding that no one did, he uttered again:

"Men often adore bad wives. That does not make them good ones."

Stewart tossed a rebel lock of raven black hair back from his forehead.

"Pardon me, Master, it does make them good wives for those men."

"Oh, surely not good for their higher natures!" protested Toovey, fervently.

The Master took three deliberate sips of port wine.

"I think, Stewart, we are discussing matters we know very little about," he said, in a particularly
high, dry voice; and every one felt that the discussion was closed. Then he turned to Sanderson
and made some remark about a house which Sanderson's College, of which he was junior bursar,
was selling to Durham.

Fletcher, the only married man present, mourned inwardly over his own masculine stupidity.
He felt sure that if his wife had been there she would have gently led Stewart's mind through
these paradoxical matrimonial fancies, to dwell on another picture; a picture of marriage with
a nice girl almost as pretty as Lady Hammerton, a good girl who shared his tastes, and, above
all, who adored him. David Fletcher felt himself pitiably unequal to the task, although he
was as anxious as his wife was that Stewart should marry Milly. Did not all their friends wish
it? It seemed to them that there could not be a more suitable couple. If Milly was working
so terribly hard to get her First in Greats, it was largely because Mr. Stewart was one of
her tutors and she knew he thought a good deal of success in the Schools.

There could be no doubt about Milly Flaxman's goodness; in fact, some of the girls at Ascham
complained that it "slopped over." Her clothes were made on hygienic principles which she treated
as a branch of morals, and she often refused to offer the small change of polite society because
it weighed somewhat light in the scales of truth. But these were foibles that the young people's
friends were sure Ian Stewart would never notice. As to him, although only four and thirty,
he was already a distinguished man. A scholar, a philosopher, and an archæologist, he had also
imagination and a sense of style. He had written a brilliant book on Greek life at a particular
period, which had brought him a reputation among the learned and also found readers in the
educated public. His disposition was sweet, his character unusually high, judged even by the
standard of the academic world, which has a higher standard than most. Obviously he would make
an excellent husband; and equally obviously, as he had no near relations and his health was
delicate, it would be a capital thing for him to have a home of his own and a devoted wife
to look after him. Their income would be small, but not smaller than that of most young couples
in Oxford, who contrived, nevertheless, to live refined and pleasant lives and to be well-considered
in a society where money positively did not count.

But if Fletcher did not succeed in forwarding this matrimonial scheme in the dining-room, his
wife succeeded no better when the gentlemen came into the drawing-room. She rose from a sofa
in the corner, leaving Milly seated there; but Mr. Toovey made his way straight to Miss Flaxman,
without a glance to right or left, and bending over her before he seated himself at her side,
fixed upon her a patronizing, a possessive smile which would have made some girls long for
a barbarous freedom in the matter of face-slapping. But Milly Flaxman was meek. She took Archibald
Toovey's seriousness for depth, and as his attentions had become unmistakable, had several
times lain awake at night tormenting herself as to whether her behavior towards him was or
was not right. Accordingly she submitted to being monopolized by Mr. Toovey, while Ian Stewart
turned away and made himself pleasant to an unattractive lady-visitor of the Fletchers', who
looked shy and left-alone. When Mrs. Fletcher tried to effect a change of partners, Ian explained
that he found himself unexpectedly obliged to attend a College meeting at ten o'clock. In a
place where there are no offices to close and business engagements are liable to crop up at
any time in the evening, there was no need for extravagance of apology for this early departure.

He changed his shoes in the narrow hall and put on his seedy-looking dark overcoat, quite unconscious
that Mrs. Fletcher had had the collar mended since he had taken it off. Then he went out into
the damp November night, unlit by moon or star. But to Stewart the darkness of night, on whatever
corner of earth he might chance to find it descended, remained always a romantic, mysterious
thing, setting his imagination free among visionary possibilities, without form, but not for
that void. The road between the railing of the parks and the row of old lopped elms, was ill-lighted
by the meagre flame of a few gas-lamps and hardly cheered by the smothered glow of the small
prison-like windows of Keble, glimmering through the bare trees. There was not a sound near,
except the occasional drip of slow-collecting dews from the branches of the old elms. Afar,
too, many would have said there was not a sound; but there was, and Ian's ear was attuned to
catch it. The immense inarticulate whisper of night came to him. It came to him from the deserted
parks, from the distant Cherwell flowing through its willow-roots and osier-islands, from the
flat meadow-country beyond, stretching away to the coppices of the low boundary hills. It was
a voice made up of many whispers, each imperceptible, or almost imperceptible in itself; whisper
of water and dry reeds, of broken twigs and dry leaves fluttering to the ground, of heaped
dead leaves or coarse winter grass, stirring in some slight movement of the air. It seemed
to his imagination as though under the darkness, in the loneliness of night, the man-mastered
world must be secretly transformed, returned to its primal freedom; and that could he go forth
into it alone, he would find it quite different from anything familiar to him, and might meet
with something, he knew not what, secret, strange, and perhaps terrible.

Such fancies, though less crystallized than they must needs be by words, floated in the penumbra
of his mind, coming to him perhaps with the blood of remote Highland ancestors, children of
mountains and mist. His reasonable self was perfectly aware that should he go, he would find
nothing in the open fields at that hour except a sleeping cow or two, and would return wet
as to the legs, and developing a severe cold for the morning. But he heard these far-off whisperings
of the night playing, as it were, a mysterious "ground" to his thoughts of Milly Flaxman. The
least fatuous of men, he had yet been obliged to see that his friends in general and the Fletchers
in particular, wished him to marry Milly, and that the girl herself hung upon his words with
a tremulous sensitivity even greater than the enthusiastic female student usually exhibits
towards those of her lecturer. In the abstract he intended to marry; for he did not desire
to be left an old bachelor in college. He had been waiting for the great experience of falling
in love, and somehow it had never come to him. There were probably numbers of people to whom
it never did come. Should he now give up all hope of it, and make a marriage of reason and
of obligingness, such as his marriage with Miss Flaxman would assuredly be? Thank Heaven! as
her tutor he could not possibly propose to her till she had got through the Schools, so there
were more than six months in which to consider the question.

And while he communed thus with himself, the mysterious whispers of the night came nearer to
him, in the blackness of garden trees, ancient trees of College gardens brooding alone, whispering
alone through the dark hours, of that current of young life which is still flowing past them;
how for hundreds of years it has always been flowing, and always passing, passing, passing
so quickly to the great silent sea of death and oblivion, to the dark night whose silence is
only sometimes stirred by vague whispers, anxious yet faint, dying upon the ear before the
sense can seize them.

CHAPTER II

Parties in Oxford always break up early, and Milly had a good excuse for carrying her aching,
disappointed heart back to Ascham at ten o'clock, for every one knew she was working hard.
Too hard, Mr. Fletcher said, looking concernedly at her heavy eyes, mottled complexion, and
the little crumples which were beginning to come in her low white forehead. Her cousins, however,
had more than a suspicion that these marks of care and woe were not altogether due to her work,
but that Ian Stewart was accountable for most of them.

The Professor escorted her to the gates of the Ladies' College; but she walked down the dark
drive alone, mindful of familiar puddles, and hearing nothing of those mysterious whispers
of night which in Ian Stewart's ears had breathed a "ground" to his troubled thoughts of her.

She mounted the stairs to her room at the top of the house. It was an extremely neat room,
and by day, when the bed was disguised as a sofa, and the washstand closed, there was nothing
to reveal that it served as a bedroom, although a tarnished old mirror hung in a dark corner.
The oak table and pair of brass candlesticks upon it were kept in shining order by Milly's
own zealous hands.

Milly found her books open at the right place and her writing materials ready to hand. In a
very few minutes her outer garments and simple ornaments were put away, and clothed in a clean
but shrunk and faded blue dressing-gown, she sat down to work. The work was Aristotle's Ethics,
and she was going through it for the second time, amplifying her notes. But this second time
the Greek seemed more difficult, the philosophic argument more intricate than ever. She had
had very little sleep for weeks, and her head ached in a queer way as though something inside
it were strained very tight. It was plain that she had come to the end of her powers of work
for the present--and she had calculated that only by not wasting a day, except for a week's
holiday at Easter, could she get through all that had to be done before the Schools!

She put Aristotle away and opened Mommsen, but even to that she could not give her attention.
Her thoughts returned to the bitter disappointment which the evening had brought. Ian Stewart
had been next her at dinner, but even then he had talked to her rather less than to Mrs. Shaw.
Afterwards--well, perhaps it was only what she deserved for not making it plain to poor Mr.
Toovey that she could never return his feelings. And now the First, which she had looked to
as a thing that would set her nearer the level of her idol, was dropping below the horizon
of the possible. Aunt Beatrice always said--and she was right--that tears were not, as people
pretended, a help and solace in trouble. They merely took the starch out of you and left you
a poor soaked, limp creature, unfit to face the hard facts of life. But sometimes tears will
lie heavy and scalding as molten lead in the brain, until at length they force their way through
to the light. And Milly after blowing her nose a good deal, as she mechanically turned the
pages of Mommsen, at length laid her arms on the book and transferred her handkerchief to her
eyes. But she tried to look as though she were reading when Flora Timson came in.

"At it again, M.! You know you're simply working yourself stupid."

Thus speaking, Miss Timson, known to her intimates at Ascham as "Tims," wagged sagely her very
peculiar head. A crimson silk handkerchief was tied around it, turban-wise, and no vestige
of hair escaped from beneath. There was in fact none to escape. Tims's sallow, comic little
face had neither eyebrows nor eyelashes on it, and her small figure was not of a quality to
triumph over the obvious disadvantages of a tight black cloth dress with bright buttons, reminiscent
of a page's suit.

Milly pushed the candles farther away and looked up.

"I was wanting to see you, Tims. Do tell me whether you managed to get out of Miss Walker what
Mr. Stewart said about my chances of a First."

Tims pushed her silk turban still higher up on her forehead.

"I can always humbug Miss Walker and make her say lots of indiscreet things," Tims returned,
with labored diplomacy. "But I don't repeat them--at least, not invariably."

There was a further argument on the point, which ended by Milly shedding tears and imploring
to be told the worst.

Tims yielded.

"Stewart said your scholarship was A 1, but he was afraid you wouldn't get your First in Greats.
He said you had a lot of difficulty in expressing yourself and didn't seem to get the lead
of their philosophy and stuff--and--and generally wanted cleverness."

"He said that?" asked Milly, in a low, sombre voice, speaking as though to herself. "Well,
I suppose it's better for me to know--not to go on hoping, and hoping, and hoping. It means
less misery in the end, no doubt."

There was such a depth of despair in her face and voice that Tims was appalled at the consequence
of her own revelation. She paced the room in agitation, alternately uttering incoherent abuse
of her friend's folly and suggesting that she should at once abandon the ungrateful School
of Literæ Humaniores and devote herself like Tims, to the joys of experimental chemistry and
the pleasures of practical anatomy.

Meantime, Milly sat silent, one hand supporting her chin, the other playing with a pencil.

At length Tims, taking hold of Milly under the arms, advised her to "go to bed and sleep it off."

Milly rose dully and sat on the edge of her bed, while Tims awkwardly removed the hair-pins
which Mrs. Shaw had so deftly put in. But as she was laying them on the little dressing-table,
Milly suddenly flung herself down on the bed and lay there a twisted heap of blue flannel,
her face buried in the pillows, her whole body shaken by a paroxysm of sobs. Tims supposed
that this might be a good thing for Milly; but for herself it created an awkward situation.
Her soothing remarks fell flat, while to go away and leave her friend in this condition would
seem brutal. She sat down to "wait till the clouds rolled by," as she phrased it. But twenty
minutes passed and still the clouds did not roll by.

"Look here, M." she said, argumentatively, standing by the bed. "You're in hysterics. That's
what's the matter with you."

"I know I am," came in tones of muffled despair from the pillow.

"Well!" Tims was very stern and accented her words heavily, "then--pull--yourself--together--dear
girl. Sit up!"

Milly sat up, pressed her handkerchief over her face, and held her breath. For a minute all
was quiet; then another violent sob forced a passage.

"It's no use, Tims," she gasped. "I cannot--cannot--stop. Oh, what would--!" She was going
to say, "What would Aunt Beatrice think of me if she knew how I was giving way!" but a fresh
flood of tears suppressed her speech. "My head's so bad! Such a splitting headache!"

Tims tried scolding, slapping, a cold sponge, every remedy inexperience could suggest, but
the hysterical weeping could not be checked.

"Look here, old girl," she said at length, "I know how I can stop you, but I don't believe
you'll let me do it."

"No, not that, Tims! You know Miss Burt doesn't--"

"Doesn't approve. Of course not. Perhaps you think old B. would approve of the way you're going
on now. Ha! Would she!"

The sarcasm caused a new and alarming outburst. But finally, past all respect for Miss Burt,
and even for Lady Thomson herself, Milly consented to submit to any remedy that Tims might
choose to try.

She was assisted hurriedly to undress and put to bed. Tims knew the whereabouts of the prize-medal
which Milly had won at school, and placing the bright silver disk in her hand, directed her
to fix her eyes upon it. Seated on her heels on the patient's bed, her crimson turban low on
her forehead, her face screwed into intent wrinkles, Tims began passing her slight hands slowly
before Milly's face.

The long slender fingers played about the girl's fair head, sometimes pressed lightly upon
her forehead, sometimes passed through her fluffy hair, as it lay spread on the pillow about
her like an amber cloud.

"Don't cry, M.," Tims began repeating in a soft, monotonous voice. "You've got nothing to cry
about; your head doesn't ache now. Don't cry."

At first it was only by a strong effort that Milly could keep her tear-blinded eyes fixed on
the bright medal before her; but soon they became chained to it, as by some attractive force.
The shining disk seemed to grow smaller, brighter, to recede imperceptibly till it was a point
of light somewhere a long way off, and with it all the sorrows and agitations of her mind seemed
also to recede into a dim distance, where she was still aware of them, yet as though they were
some one else's sorrows and agitations, hardly at all concerning her. The aching tension of
her brain was relaxed and she felt as though she were drowning without pain or struggle, gently
floating down, down through a green abyss of water, always seeing that distant light, showing
as the sun might show, seen from the depths of the sea.

Before a quarter of an hour had passed, her sobs ceased in sighing breaths, the breaths became
regular and normal, the whole face slackened and smoothed itself out. Tims changed the burden
of her song.

"Go to sleep, Milly. What you want is a good long sleep. Go to sleep, Milly."

Milly was sinking down upon the pillow, breathing the calm breath of deep, refreshing slumber.
Tims still crouched upon the bed, chanting her monotonous song and contemplating her work.
At length she slipped off, conscious of pins-and-needles in her legs, and as she withdrew,
Milly with a sudden motion stretched her body out in the white bed, as straight and still almost
as that of the dead. The movement was mechanical, but it gave a momentary check to Tims's triumph.
She leaned over her patient and began once more the crooning song.

"Go to sleep, M.! What you want is a good long sleep. Go to sleep, Milly!"

But presently she ceased her song, for it was evident that Milly Flaxman had indeed gone very
sound asleep.

CHAPTER III

Tims was proud of the combined style and economy of her dress. She was constantly discovering
and revealing to an unappreciative world the existence of superb tailors who made amazingly
cheap dresses. For two years she had been vainly advising her friends to go to the man who
had made her the frock she still wore for morning; a skirt and coat of tweed with a large green
check in it, a green waistcoat with gilt buttons, and green gaiters to match. In this costume
and coiffed with a man's wig, of the vague color peculiar to such articles, Tims came down
at her usual hour, prepared to ask Milly what she thought of hypnotism now. But there was no
Milly over whom to enjoy this petty triumph. She climbed to the top story as soon as breakfast
was over, and entering Milly's room, found her patient still sleeping soundly, low and straight
in the bed, just as she had been the preceding night. She was breathing regularly and her face
looked peaceful, although her eyes were still stained with tears. The servant came in as Tims
was looking at her.

"I've tried to wake Miss Flaxman, miss," she said. "She's always very particular as I should
wake her, but she was that sound asleep this morning, I 'adn't the 'eart to go on talking.
Poor young lady! I expect she's pretty well wore out, working away at her books, early and
late, the way she does."

"Better leave her alone, Emma," agreed Tims. "I'll let Miss Burt know about it."

Miss Burt was glad to hear Milly Flaxman was oversleeping herself. She had not been satisfied
with the girl's appearance of late, and feared Milly worked too hard and had bad nights.

Tims had to go out at ten o'clock and did not return until luncheon-time. She went up to Milly's
room and knocked at the door. As before, there was no answer. She went in and saw the girl
still sound asleep, straight and motionless in the bed. Her appearance was so healthy and natural
that it was absurd to feel uneasy at the length of her slumber, yet remembering the triumph
of hypnotism, Tims did feel a little uneasy. She spoke to Miss Burt again about Milly's prolonged
sleep, but Miss Burt was not inclined to be anxious. She had strictly forbidden Tims to hypnotize--or
as she called it, mesmerize--any one in the house, so that Tims said no more on the subject.
She was working at the Museum in the early part of the afternoon, only leaving it when the
light began to fail. But after work she went straight back to Ascham. Milly was still asleep,
but she had slightly shifted her position, and altogether there was something about her aspect
which suggested a slumber less profound than before. Tims leaned over her and spoke softly:

"Wake up, M., wake up! You've been asleep quite long enough."

Milly's body twitched a little. A responsive flicker which was almost a convulsion, passed
over her face; but she did not awake. It was evident, however, that her spirit was gradually
floating up to the surface from the depths of oblivion in which it had been submerged. Tims
took off her Tam-o'-Shanter and ulster, and revealed in the simple elegance of the tweed frock
with green waistcoat and gaiters, put the kettle on the fire. Then she went down-stairs to
fetch some bread and butter and an egg, wherewith to feed the patient when she awoke.

She had not long left the room when the slumberer's eyes opened gradually and stared with the
fixity of semi-consciousness at a stem of blossoming jessamine in the wall-paper. Then she
slowly stretched her arms above her head until some inches of wrist, slight and round and white,
emerged from the strictly plain night-gown sleeve. So she lay, till suddenly, almost with a
start, she pulled herself up and looked about her. The gaze of her wide-open eyes travelled
questioningly around the quiet-toned room which two windows at right angles to each other still
kept light with the reflection of a yellow winter sunset. She pushed the bedclothes down, dropped
first one bare white foot, then the other to the ground and looked doubtfully at a pair of
worn felt slippers which were placed beside the bed, before slipping her feet into them. With
the same air as of one assuming garments which do not belong to her, she put on the faded blue
flannel dressing-gown. Then she walked to the southern window. None of the glories of Oxford
were visible from it; only the bare branches of trees through which appeared a huddle of somewhat
sordid looking roofs and the unimposing spire of St. Aloysius. With the same air, questioning
yet as in a dream, she turned to the western window, which was open. Below, in its wintry dulness,
lay the garden of the College, bounded by an old gray wall which divided it from the straggling
street; beyond that, a mass of slate roofs. But a certain glory was on the slate roofs and
all the garden that was not in shadow. For away over Wytham, where the blue vapor floated in
the folds of the hills, blending imperceptibly with the deep brown of the leafless woods, sunset
had lifted a wide curtain of cloud and showed between the gloom of heaven and earth, a long
straight pool of yellow light.

She leaned out of the window. A mild fresh air which seemed to be pouring over the earth through
that rift in heaven which the sunset had made, breathed freshly on her face and the yellow
light shone on her amber hair, which lay on her shoulders about the length of the hair of an
angel in some old Florentine picture.

Miss Burt in galoshes and with a wrap over her head was coming up the garden. She caught sight
of that vision of gold and pale blue in the window and smiled and waved her hand to Milly Flaxman.
The vision withdrew, trembling slightly as though with cold, and closed the window.

Tims came in, carrying a boiled egg and a plate of bread and butter. Tims put down the egg-cup
and the plate on the table before she relaxed the wrinkle of carefulness and grinned triumphantly
at her patient.

"Well, old girl," she asked; "what do you say to hypnotism now? Put you to sleep, right enough,
anyhow. Know what time it is?"

The awakened sleeper made a few steps forward, leaned her hands on the table, on the other
side of which Tims stood, and gazed upon her with startling intentness. Then she began to speak
in a rapid, urgent voice. Her words were in themselves ordinary and distinct, yet what she
said was entirely incomprehensible, a nightmare of speech, as though some talking-machine had
gone wrong and was pouring out a miscellaneous stock of verbs, nouns, adjectives and the rest
without meaning or cohesion. Certain words reappeared with frequency, but Tims had a feeling
that the speaker did not attach their usual meaning to them. This travesty of language went
on for what appeared to the transfixed and terrified listener quite a long time. At length
the serious, almost tragic, babbler, meeting with no response save the staring horror of Tims's
too expressive countenance, ended with a supplicating smile and a glance which contrived to
be charged at once with pathos and coquetry. This smile, this look, were so totally unlike
any expression which Tims had ever seen on Milly's countenance that they heightened her feeling
of nightmare. But she pulled herself together and determined to show presence of mind. She
had already placed a basket-chair by the fire ready for her patient, and now gently but firmly
led Milly to it.

"Sit down, Milly," she said--and the use of her friend's proper name showed that she felt the
occasion to be serious--"and don't speak again till you've had some tea. Your head will be
clearer presently, it's a bit confused now, you know."

The stranger Milly, still so unlike the Milly of Tims's intimacy, far from exerting the unnatural
strength of a maniac, passively permitted herself to be placed in the chair and listened to
what Tims was saying with the puzzled intentness of a child or a foreigner, trying to understand.
She laid her head back in its little cloud of amber hair, and looked up at Tims, who, frowning
portentously, once more with lifted finger enjoined silence. Tims then concealing her agitation
behind a cupboard-door, reached down the tea-things. By some strange accident the methodical
Milly's teapot was absent from its place; a phenomenon for which Tims was thankful, as it imposed
upon her the necessity of leaving her patient for a few minutes. Shaking her finger again at
Milly still more emphatically, she went out, and locked the door behind her. After a moment's
thought, she reluctantly decided to report the matter to Miss Burt. But Miss Burt was closeted
with the treasurer and an architect from London, and was on no account to be disturbed. So
Tims went up to her own room and rapidly revolved the situation. She was certain that Milly
was not physically ill; on the contrary, she looked much better than she had looked on the
previous day. This curious affection of the speech-memory might be hysterical, as her sobbing
the night before had been, or it might be connected with some little failure of circulation
in the brain; an explanation, perhaps, pointed to by the extraordinary length of her sleep.
Anyhow, Tims felt sceptical as to a doctor being of any use.

She went to her cupboard to take out her own teapot, and her eye fell upon a small medicine
bottle marked "Brandy." Milly was a convinced teetotaller; all the more reason, thought Tims,
why a dose of alcohol should give her nerves and circulation a fillip, only she must not know
of it, or she would certainly refuse the remedy.

Pocketing the bottle and flourishing the teapot, Tims mounted again to Milly's room. Her patient,
who had spent the time wandering about the room and examining everything in it, as well as
she could in the fast-falling twilight, resumed her position in the chair as soon as she heard
a step in the passage, and greeted her returning keeper with an attractive smile. Tims uttering
words of commendation, slyly poured some brandy into one of the large teacups before lighting
the candles.

