"

But when a layman ventures to plunge deeply into legal subjects, he is naturally apt to make
an exhibition of his incompetence. "Let a non-professional man, however acute," writes Lord
Campbell again, "presume to talk law, or to draw illustrations from legal science in discussing
other subjects, and he will speedily fall into laughable absurdity."

And what does the same high authority say about Shakespeare? He had "a deep technical knowledge
of the law," and an easy familiarity with "some of the most abstruse proceedings in English
jurisprudence." And again: "Whenever he indulges this propensity he uniformly lays down good
law." Of "Henry IV.," Part 2, he says: "If Lord Eldon could be supposed to have written the
play, I do not see how he could be chargeable with having forgotten any of his law while writing
it." Charles and Mary Cowden Clarke speak of "the marvelous intimacy which he displays with
legal terms, his frequent adoption of them in illustration, and his curiously technical knowledge
of their form and force." Malone, himself a lawyer, wrote: "His knowledge of legal terms is
not merely such as might be acquired by the casual observation of even his all-comprehending
mind; it has the appearance of technical skill." Another lawyer and well-known Shakespearean,
Richard Grant White, says: "No dramatist of the time, not even Beaumont, who was the younger
son of a judge of the Common Pleas, and who after studying in the Inns of Court abandoned law
for the drama, used legal phrases with Shakespeare's readiness and exactness. And the significance
of this fact is heightened by another, that is only to the language of the law that he exhibits
this inclination. The phrases peculiar to other occupations serve him on rare occasions by
way of description, comparison, or illustration, generally when something in the scene suggests
them, but legal phrases flow from his pen as part of his vocabulary and parcel of his thought.
Take the word 'purchase' for instance, which, in ordinary use, means to acquire by giving value,
but applies in law to all legal modes of obtaining property except by inheritance or descent,
and in this peculiar sense the word occurs five times in Shakespeare's thirty-four plays, and
only in one single instance in the fifty-four plays of Beaumont and Fletcher. It has been suggested
that it was in attendance upon the courts in London that he picked up his legal vocabulary.
But this supposition not only fails to account for Shakespeare's peculiar freedom and exactness
in the use of that phraseology, it does not even place him in the way of learning those terms
his use of which is most remarkable, which are not such as he would have heard at ordinary
proceedings at NISI PRIUS, but such as refer to the tenure or transfer of real property, 'fine
and recovery,' 'statutes merchant,' 'purchase,' 'indenture,' 'tenure,' 'double voucher,' 'fee
simple,' 'fee farm,' 'remainder,' 'reversion,' 'forfeiture,' etc. This conveyancer's jargon
could not have been picked up by hanging round the courts of law in London two hundred and
fifty years ago, when suits as to the title of real property were comparatively rare. And besides,
Shakespeare uses his law just as freely in his first plays, written in his first London years,
as in those produced at a later period. Just as exactly, too; for the correctness and propriety
with which these terms are introduced have compelled the admiration of a Chief Justice and
a Lord Chancellor."

Senator Davis wrote: "We seem to have something more than a sciolist's temerity of indulgence
in the terms of an unfamiliar art. No legal solecisms will be found. The abstrusest elements
of the common law are impressed into a disciplined service. Over and over again, where such
knowledge is unexampled in writers unlearned in the law, Shakespeare appears in perfect possession
of it. In the law of real property, its rules of tenure and descents, its entails, its fines
and recoveries, their vouchers and double vouchers, in the procedure of the Courts, the method
of bringing writs and arrests, the nature of actions, the rules of pleading, the law of escapes
and of contempt of court, in the principles of evidence, both technical and philosophical,
in the distinction between the temporal and spiritual tribunals, in the law of attainder and
forfeiture, in the requisites of a valid marriage, in the presumption of legitimacy, in the
learning of the law of prerogative, in the inalienable character of the Crown, this mastership
appears with surprising authority."

To all this testimony (and there is much more which I have not cited) may now be added that
of a great lawyer of our own times, VIZ.: Sir James Plaisted Wilde, Q.C. 1855, created a Baron
of the Exchequer in 1860, promoted to the post of Judge-Ordinary and Judge of the Courts of
Probate and Divorce in 1863, and better known to the world as Lord Penzance, to which dignity
he was raised in 1869. Lord Penzance, as all lawyers know, and as the late Mr. Inderwick, K.C.,
has testified, was one of the first legal authorities of his day, famous for his "remarkable
grasp of legal principles," and "endowed by nature with a remarkable facility for marshaling
facts, and for a clear expression of his views."

Lord Penzance speaks of Shakespeare's "perfect familiarity with not only the principles, axioms,
and maxims, but the technicalities of English law, a knowledge so perfect and intimate that
he was never incorrect and never at fault.... The mode in which this knowledge was pressed
into service on all occasions to express his meaning and illustrate his thoughts was quite
unexampled. He seems to have had a special pleasure in his complete and ready mastership of
it in all its branches. As manifested in the plays, this legal knowledge and learning had therefore
a special character which places it on a wholly different footing from the rest of the multifarious
knowledge which is exhibited in page after page of the plays. At every turn and point at which
the author required a metaphor, simile, or illustration, his mind ever turned FIRST to the
law. He seems almost to have THOUGHT in legal phrases, the commonest of legal expressions were
ever at the end of his pen in description or illustration. That he should have descanted in
lawyer language when he had a forensic subject in hand, such as Shylock's bond, was to be expected,
but the knowledge of law in 'Shakespeare' was exhibited in a far different manner: it protruded
itself on all occasions, appropriate or inappropriate, and mingled itself with strains of thought
widely divergent from forensic subjects." Again: "To acquire a perfect familiarity with legal
principles, and an accurate and ready use of the technical terms and phrases not only of the
conveyancer's office, but of the pleader's chambers and the Courts at Westminster, nothing
short of employment in some career involving constant contact with legal questions and general
legal work would be requisite. But a continuous employment involves the element of time, and
time was just what the manager of two theaters had not at his disposal. In what portion of
Shakespeare's (i.e., Shakspere's) career would it be possible to point out that time could
be found for the interposition of a legal employment in the chambers or offices of practicing
lawyers?"

Stratfordians, as is well known, casting about for some possible explanation of Shakespeare's
extraordinary knowledge of law, have made the suggestion that Shakespeare might, conceivably,
have been a clerk in an attorney's office before he came to London. Mr. Collier wrote to Lord
Campbell to ask his opinion as to the probability of this being true. His answer was as follows:
"You require us to believe implicitly a fact, of which, if true, positive and irrefragable
evidence in his own handwriting might have been forthcoming to establish it. Not having been
actually enrolled as an attorney, neither the records of the local court at Stratford nor of
the superior Court at Westminster would present his name as being concerned in any suit as
an attorney, but it might reasonably have been expected that there would be deeds or wills
witnessed by him still extant, and after a very diligent search none such can be discovered."

Upon this Lord Penzance commends: "It cannot be doubted that Lord Campbell was right in this.
No young man could have been at work in an attorney's office without being called upon continually
to act as a witness, and in many other ways leaving traces of his work and name." There is
not a single fact or incident in all that is known of Shakespeare, even by rumor or tradition,
which supports this notion of a clerkship. And after much argument and surmise which has been
indulged in on this subject, we may, I think, safely put the notion on one side, for no less
an authority than Mr. Grant White says finally that the idea of his having been clerk to an
attorney has been "blown to pieces."

It is altogether characteristic of Mr. Churton Collins that he, nevertheless, adopts this exploded
myth. "That Shakespeare was in early life employed as a clerk in an attorney's office may be
correct. At Stratford there was by royal charter a Court of Record sitting every fortnight,
with six attorneys, besides the town clerk, belonging to it, and it is certainly not straining
probability to suppose that the young Shakespeare may have had employment in one of them. There
is, it is true, no tradition to this effect, but such traditions as we have about Shakespeare's
occupation between the time of leaving school and going to London are so loose and baseless
that no confidence can be placed in them. It is, to say the least, more probable that he was
in an attorney's office than that he was a butcher killing calves 'in a high style,' and making
speeches over them."

This is a charming specimen of Stratfordian argument. There is, as we have seen, a very old
tradition that Shakespeare was a butcher's apprentice. John Dowdall, who made a tour of Warwickshire
in 1693, testifies to it as coming from the old clerk who showed him over the church, and it
is unhesitatingly accepted as true by Mr. Halliwell-Phillipps. (Vol. I, p. 11, and Vol. II,
pp. 71, 72.) Mr. Sidney Lee sees nothing improbable in it, and it is supported by Aubrey, who
must have written his account some time before 1680, when his manuscript was completed. Of
the attorney's clerk hypothesis, on the other hand, there is not the faintest vestige of a
tradition. It has been evolved out of the fertile imaginations of embarrassed Stratfordians,
seeking for some explanation of the Stratford rustic's marvelous acquaintance with law and
legal terms and legal life. And as Mr. Edwards further points out, since the day when Lord
Campbell's book was published (between forty and fifty years ago), "every old deed or will,
to say nothing of other legal papers, dated during the period of William Shakespeare's youth,
has been scrutinized over half a dozen shires, and not one signature of the young man has been
found."

Moreover, if Shakespeare had served as clerk in an attorney's office it is clear that he must
have served for a considerable period in order to have gained (if, indeed, it is credible that
he could have so gained) his remarkable knowledge of the law. Can we then for a moment believe
that, if this had been so, tradition would have been absolutely silent on the matter? That
Dowdall's old clerk, over eighty years of age, should have never heard of it (though he was
sure enough about the butcher's apprentice) and that all the other ancient witnesses should
be in similar ignorance!

But such are the methods of Stratfordian controversy. Tradition is to be scouted when it is
found inconvenient, but cited as irrefragable truth when it suits the case. Shakespeare of
Stratford was the author of the Plays and Poems, but the author of the Plays and Poems could
not have been a butcher's apprentice. Anyway, therefore, with tradition. But the author of
the Plays and Poems MUST have had a very large and a very accurate knowledge of the law. Therefore,
Shakespeare of Stratford must have been an attorney's clerk! The method is simplicity itself.
By similar reasoning Shakespeare has been made a country schoolmaster, a soldier, a physician,
a printer, and a good many other things besides, according to the inclination and the exigencies
of the commentator. It would not be in the least surprising to find that he was studying Latin
as a schoolmaster and law in an attorney's office at the same time.

However, we must do Mr. Collins the justice of saying that he has fully recognized, what is
indeed tolerable obvious, that Shakespeare must have had a sound legal training. "It may, of
course, be urged," he writes, "that Shakespeare's knowledge of medicine, and particularly that
branch of it which related to morbid psychology, is equally remarkable, and that no one has
ever contended that he was a physician. (Here Mr. Collins is wrong; that contention also has
been put forward.) It may be urged that his acquaintance with the technicalities of other crafts
and callings, notably of marine and military affairs, was also extraordinary, and yet no one
has suspected him of being a sailor or a soldier. (Wrong again. Why, even Messrs. Garnett and
Gosse "suspect" that he was a soldier!) This may be conceded, but the concession hardly furnishes
an analogy. To these and all other subjects he recurs occasionally, and in season, but with
reminiscences of the law his memory, as is abundantly clear, was simply saturated. In season
and out of season now in manifest, now in recondite application, he presses it into the service
of expression and illustration. At least a third of his myriad metaphors are derived from it.
It would indeed be difficult to find a single act in any of his dramas, nay, in some of them,
a single scene, the diction and imagery of which are not colored by it. Much of his law may
have been acquired from three books easily accessible to him--namely, Tottell's PRECEDENTS
(1572), Pulton's STATUTES (1578), and Fraunce's LAWIER'S LOGIKE (1588), works with which he
certainly seems to have been familiar; but much of it could only have come from one who had
an intimate acquaintance with legal proceedings. We quite agree with Mr. Castle that Shakespeare's
legal knowledge is not what could have been picked up in an attorney's office, but could only
have been learned by an actual attendance at the Courts, at a Pleader's Chambers, and on circuit,
or by associating intimately with members of the Bench and Bar."

This is excellent. But what is Mr. Collins's explanation? "Perhaps the simplest solution of
the problem is to accept the hypothesis that in early life he was in an attorney's office (!),
that he there contracted a love for the law which never left him, that as a young man in London
he continued to study or dabble in it for his amusement, to stroll in leisure hours into the
Courts, and to frequent the society of lawyers. On no other supposition is it possible to explain
the attraction which the law evidently had for him, and his minute and undeviating accuracy
in a subject where no layman who has indulged in such copious and ostentatious display of legal
technicalities has ever yet succeeded in keeping himself from tripping."

A lame conclusion. "No other supposition" indeed! Yes, there is another, and a very obvious
supposition--namely, that Shakespeare was himself a lawyer, well versed in his trade, versed
in all the ways of the courts, and living in close intimacy with judges and members of the
Inns of Court. While under the obligation of this bond he could not have pursued any other
employment. Then he leaves Stratford and comes to London. He has to provide himself with the
means of a livelihood, and this he did in some capacity at the theater. No one doubts that.
The holding of horses is scouted by many, and perhaps with justice, as being unlikely and certainly
unproved; but whatever the nature of his employment was at the theater, there is hardly room
for the belief that it could have been other than continuous, for his progress there was so
rapid. Ere long he had been taken into the company as an actor, and was soon spoken of as a
'Johannes Factotum.' His rapid accumulation of wealth speaks volumes for the constancy and
activity of his services. One fails to see when there could be a break in the current of his
life at this period of it, giving room or opportunity for legal or indeed any other employment.
'In 1589,' says Knight, 'we have undeniable evidence that he had not only a casual engagement,
was not only a salaried servant, as may players were, but was a shareholder in the company
of the Queen's players with other shareholders below him on the list.' This (1589) would be
within two years after his arrival in London, which is placed by White and Halliwell-Phillipps
about the year 1587. The difficulty in supposing that, starting with a state of ignorance in
1587, when he is supposed to have come to London, he was induced to enter upon a course of
most extended study and mental culture, is almost insuperable. Still it was physically possible,
provided always that he could have had access to the needful books. But this legal training
seems to me to stand on a different footing. It is not only unaccountable and incredible, but
it is actually negatived by the known facts of his career." Lord Penzance then refers to the
fact that "by 1592 (according to the best authority, Mr. Grant White) several of the plays
had been written. 'The Comedy of Errors' in 1589, 'Love's Labour's Lost' in 1589, 'Two Gentlemen
of Verona' in 1589 or 1590," and so forth, and then asks, "with this catalogue of dramatic
work on hand... was it possible that he could have taken a leading part in the management and
conduct of two theaters, and if Mr. Phillipps is to be relied upon, taken his share in the
performances of the provincial tours of his company--and at the same time devoted himself to
the study of the law in all its branches so efficiently as to make himself complete master
of its principles and practice, and saturate his mind with all its most technical terms?"

I have cited this passage from Lord Penzance's book, because it lay before me, and I had already
quoted from it on the matter of Shakespeare's legal knowledge; but other writers have still
better set forth the insuperable difficulties, as they seem to me, which beset the idea that
Shakespeare might have found them in some unknown period of early life, amid multifarious other
occupations, for the study of classics, literature, and law, to say nothing of languages and
a few other matters. Lord Penzance further asks his readers: "Did you ever meet with or hear
of an instance in which a young man in this country gave himself up to legal studies and engaged
in legal employments, which is the only way of becoming familiar with the technicalities of
practice, unless with the view of practicing in that profession? I do not believe that it would
be easy, or indeed possible, to produce an instance in which the law has been seriously studied
in all its branches, except as a qualification for practice in the legal profession."

This testimony is so strong, so direct, so authoritative; and so uncheapened, unwatered by
guesses, and surmises, and maybe-so's, and might-have-beens, and could-have-beens, and must-have-beens,
and the rest of that ton of plaster of Paris out of which the biographers have built the colossal
brontosaur which goes by the Stratford actor's name, that it quite convinces me that the man
who wrote Shakespeare's Works knew all about law and lawyers. Also, that that man could not
have been the Stratford Shakespeare--and WASN'T.

Who did write these Works, then?

I wish I knew.

     1.  From Chapter XIII of THE SHAKESPEARE PROBLEM RESTATED. By
George G. Greenwood, M.P. John Lane Company, publishers.

IX

Did Francis Bacon write Shakespeare's Works? Nobody knows.

We cannot say we KNOW a thing when that thing has not been proved. KNOW is too strong a word
to use when the evidence is not final and absolutely conclusive. We can infer, if we want to,
like those slaves.... No, I will not write that word, it is not kind, it is not courteous.
The upholders of the Stratford-Shakespeare superstition call US the hardest names they can
think of, and they keep doing it all the time; very well, if they like to descend to that level,
let them do it, but I will not so undignify myself as to follow them. I cannot call them harsh
names; the most I can do is to indicate them by terms reflecting my disapproval; and this without
malice, without venom.

To resume. What I was about to say was, those thugs have built their entire superstition upon
INFERENCES, not upon known and established facts. It is a weak method, and poor, and I am glad
to be able to say our side never resorts to it while there is anything else to resort to.

But when we must, we must; and we have now arrived at a place of that sort.... Since the Stratford
Shakespeare couldn't have written the Works, we infer that somebody did. Who was it, then?
This requires some more inferring.

Ordinarily when an unsigned poem sweeps across the continent like a tidal wave whose roar and
boom and thunder are made up of admiration, delight, and applause, a dozen obscure people rise
up and claim the authorship. Why a dozen, instead of only one or two? One reason is, because
there are a dozen that are recognizably competent to do that poem. Do you remember "Beautiful
Snow"? Do you remember "Rock Me to Sleep, Mother, Rock Me to Sleep"? Do you remember "Backward,
turn, backward, O Time, in thy flight! Make me a child again just for tonight"? I remember
them very well. Their authorship was claimed by most of the grown-up people who were alive
at the time, and every claimant had one plausible argument in his favor, at least--to wit,
he could have done the authoring; he was competent.

Have the Works been claimed by a dozen? They haven't. There was good reason. The world knows
there was but one man on the planet at the time who was competent--not a dozen, and not two.
A long time ago the dwellers in a far country used now and then to find a procession of prodigious
footprints stretching across the plain--footprints that were three miles apart, each footprint
a third of a mile long and a furlong deep, and with forests and villages mashed to mush in
it. Was there any doubt as to who made that mighty trail? Were there a dozen claimants? Where
there two? No--the people knew who it was that had been along there: there was only one Hercules.

There has been only one Shakespeare. There couldn't be two; certainly there couldn't be two
at the same time. It takes ages to bring forth a Shakespeare, and some more ages to match him.
This one was not matched before his time; nor during his time; and hasn't been matched since.
The prospect of matching him in our time is not bright.

The Baconians claim that the Stratford Shakespeare was not qualified to write the Works, and
that Francis Bacon was. They claim that Bacon possessed the stupendous equipment--both natural
and acquired--for the miracle; and that no other Englishman of his day possessed the like;
or, indeed, anything closely approaching it.

Macaulay, in his Essay, has much to say about the splendor and horizonless magnitude of that
equipment. Also, he has synopsized Bacon's history--a thing which cannot be done for the Stratford
Shakespeare, for he hasn't any history to synopsize. Bacon's history is open to the world,
from his boyhood to his death in old age--a history consisting of known facts, displayed in
minute and multitudinous detail; FACTS, not guesses and conjectures and might-have-beens. It
is the atmosphere we are reared in that determines how our inclinations and aspirations shall
tend. The atmosphere furnished by the parents to the son in this present case was an atmosphere
saturated with learning; with thinkings and ponderings upon deep subjects; and with polite
culture. It had its natural effect. Shakespeare of Stratford was reared in a house which had
no use for books, since its owners, his parents, were without education. This may have had
an effect upon the son, but we do not know, because we have no history of him of an informing
sort. There were but few books anywhere, in that day, and only the well-to-do and highly educated
possessed them, they being almost confined to the dead languages. The few existing books were
in the Latin tongue mainly. "A person who was ignorant of it was shut out from all acquaintance--not
merely with Cicero and Virgil, but with the most interesting memoirs, state papers, and pamphlets
of his own time"--a literature necessary to the Stratford lad, for his fictitious reputation's
sake, since the writer of his Works would begin to use it wholesale and in a most masterly
way before the lad was hardly more than out of his teens and into his twenties.

At fifteen Bacon was sent to the university, and he spent three years there. Thence he went
to Paris in the train of the English Ambassador, and there he mingled daily with the wise,
the cultured, the great, and the aristocracy of fashion, during another three years. A total
of six years spent at the sources of knowledge; knowledge both of books and of men. The three
spent at the university were coeval with the second and last three spent by the little Stratford
lad at Stratford school supposedly, and perhapsedly, and maybe, and by inference--with nothing
to infer from. The second three of the Baconian six were "presumably" spent by the Stratford
lad as apprentice to a butcher. That is, the thugs presume it--on no evidence of any kind.
Which is their way, when they want a historical fact. Fact and presumption are, for business
purposes, all the same to them. They know the difference, but they also know how to blink it.
They know, too, that while in history-building a fact is better than a presumption, it doesn't
take a presumption long to bloom into a fact when THEY have the handling of it. They know by
old experience that when they get hold of a presumption-tadpole he is not going to STAY tadpole
in their history-tank; no, they know how to develop him into the giant four-legged bullfrog
of FACT, and make him sit up on his hams, and puff out his chin, and look important and insolent
and come-to-stay; and assert his genuine simon-pure authenticity with a thundering bellow that
will convince everybody because it is so loud. The thug is aware that loudness convinces sixty
persons where reasoning convinces but one. I wouldn't be a thug, not even if--but never mind
about that, it has nothing to do with the argument, and it is not noble in spirit besides.
If I am better than a thug, is the merit mine? No, it is His. Then to Him be the praise. That
is the right spirit.

They "presume" the lad severed his "presumed" connection with the Stratford school to become
apprentice to a butcher. They also "presume" that the butcher was his father. They don't know.
There is no written record of it, nor any other actual evidence. If it would have helped their
case any, they would have apprenticed him to thirty butchers, to fifty butchers, to a wilderness
of butchers--all by their patented method "presumption." If it will help their case they will
do it yet; and if it will further help it, they will "presume" that all those butchers were
his father. And the week after, they will SAY it. Why, it is just like being the past tense
of the compound reflexive adverbial incandescent hypodermic irregular accusative Noun of Multitude;
which is father to the expression which the grammarians call Verb. It is like a whole ancestry,
with only one posterity.

To resume. Next, the young Bacon took up the study of law, and mastered that abstruse science.
From that day to the end of his life he was daily in close contact with lawyers and judges;
not as a casual onlooker in intervals between holding horses in front of a theater, but as
a practicing lawyer--a great and successful one, a renowned one, a Launcelot of the bar, the
most formidable lance in the high brotherhood of the legal Table Round; he lived in the law's
atmosphere thenceforth, all his years, and by sheer ability forced his way up its difficult
steeps to its supremest summit, the Lord-Chancellorship, leaving behind him no fellow-craftsman
qualified to challenge his divine right to that majestic place.

When we read the praises bestowed by Lord Penzance and the other illustrious experts upon the
legal condition and legal aptnesses, brilliances, profundities, and felicities so prodigally
displayed in the Plays, and try to fit them to the historyless Stratford stage-manager, they
sound wild, strange, incredible, ludicrous; but when we put them in the mouth of Bacon they
do not sound strange, they seem in their natural and rightful place, they seem at home there.
Please turn back and read them again. Attributed to Shakespeare of Stratford they are meaningless,
they are inebriate extravagancies--intemperate admirations of the dark side of the moon, so
to speak; attributed to Bacon, they are admirations of the golden glories of the moon's front
side, the moon at the full--and not intemperate, not overwrought, but sane and right, and justified.
That could happen to no one but a person whose TRADE was the law; it could not happen to a
dabbler in it. Veteran mariners fill their conversation with sailor-phrases and draw all their
similes from the ship and the sea and the storm, but no mere PASSENGER ever does it, be he
of Stratford or elsewhere; or could do it with anything resembling accuracy, if he were hardy
enough to try. Please read again what Lord Campbell and the other great authorities have said
about Bacon when they thought they were saying it about Shakespeare of Stratford.

X

The Rest of the Equipment

The author of the Plays was equipped, beyond every other man of his time, with wisdom, erudition,
imagination, capaciousness of mind, grace, and majesty of expression. Everyone one had said
it, no one doubts it. Also, he had humor, humor in rich abundance, and always wanting to break
out. We have no evidence of any kind that Shakespeare of Stratford possessed any of these gifts
or any of these acquirements. The only lines he ever wrote, so far as we know, are substantially
barren of them--barren of all of them.

To serve the exacting and laborious offices of Attorney-General and Solicitor-General would
have satisfied the appetite of any other man for hard work, but Bacon had to add the vast literary
industries just described, to satisfy his. He was a born worker.

Did these labors of Hercules fill up his time to his contentment, and quiet his appetite for work?

Here are some scattered remarks (from Macaulay) which throw light upon Bacon, and seem to indicate--and
maybe demonstrate--that he was competent to write the Plays and Poems:

