    DEAR MOTHER:--I write this letter to you for the purpose of letting
    you know how I am doing. I am devoting the most of my leisure hours
    to reading and improving my mind, some way or other. Indeed, it is
    not much time I have to devote to things of that nature; but all the
    time I have I am busy. I meet with a good many advantages in every
    respect, where I am now. I have the advantage of having a room to
    apply my time to whatever study I resolve to persevere in. If I had
    time, I would give you a more correct account of my transactions
    through the day; but if I have time to meditate a little, I hope I
    will be enabled to give you some account of the sermons that I hear,
    as I think it would be greatly to my own interest, for if I pry into
    that part of information, there is no danger but that I will have
    success in whatever situation I am placed in life. I may be thankful
    that I have a room to read my Bible in on Sabbath days. I have none
    to speak to me or give me annoyance of any sort whatever. I hope the
    next letter I write you, that it will be in a more correct sense. I
    hope you will write me by Johnny, when he is coming back to town,
    and let me know how you are succeeding in work, and how Jane is
    succeeding in the business of the shop. I send my love to all my
    friends (everyone in particular), I hope you will let me know how
    they are all doing; but I have nothing more to say at present. But I
    trust you will write me in the beginning of the week. I must
    conclude, as it is now too late for me to say anything more. All
    here are well, but Mrs. L----, who is in a bad state of health.

    JAMES KNOWLES.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The following letter is a sample of many to his old pastors, showing his strong attachment
to those who labored with him in word and doctrine:

    NEW YORK, March 26, 1883.

    MR. PHELPS--Reverend and dear friend and Christian brother: It has
    been my purpose for some time to write to you and yours, even if it
    should be but a few lines, to assure you that you are not forgotten
    by us; for although you are absent from us, yet your faithful and
    earnest appeals still live in our remembrance, and I have no doubt
    will continue to do so; and while I may not be able to recall much
    of the many sermons which I have heard you deliver, yet the
    impressions made upon my mind while sitting under them are retained.
    I might, however, state here, that I was sorry to part with you and
    your family, and to feel that your pastoral relationship with us
    would soon be broken up; I had made up my mind to stay by the Church
    while you remained, if I lived, as I was attached to you and your
    family as to personal friends.... My wife and I unite in love to you
    and Mrs. Phelps and your son.

    JAMES KNOWLES.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

    COVENANTS WITH GOD.

    "Dear Lord, and shall Thy Spirit rest
    In such a wretched heart as mine?
    Unworthy dwelling! Glorious Guest!
    Favor astonishing, Divine!"

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

The following acts of consecration will, no doubt, be of interest to the reader:

    NEW YORK, Thursday, June 21, 1860.

    I do solemnly resolve from this day onward to endeavor, relying on
    thy Holy Spirit, to serve Thee better. This is my covenant, and I
    would ask Thee to own and bless me with peace and joy in believing.

                   *     *     *     *     *     *

    NEW YORK, Saturday, October 6, 1860.

    I now promise, as I have formerly promised to do, from this day
    onward, to serve God better than I have been doing; depending on
    God's spirit for assistance; and will now ask to be prospered as
    God may see good for me.

