"That chance you shall have, with the thanks of my exhausted troops, to whom, and myself, your
presence, at this time, my brave friend, could scarcely be more welcome," said Stark, with
a frankness and cordiality of manner which attested the pleasure he felt at the other's timely
arrival.

"Thank you--thank you, general," replied Warner, galloping back to his regiment, and commanding
their attention.

"Soldiers," he exclaimed, in his clear, trumpet tones throwing back his tall, superb form,
and displaying his noble and beautifully-arched brow,--"my brave soldiers, shall this be our
battle, and our victory?"

A deafening cheer was the affirmative response.

"In God's name, on, then!" he resumed, in a voice of thunder--"on, and avenge yourselves for
country's wrongs, and for your flogging at Hubbardton."

In eager obedience to the welcome command of their idolized leader, who now led the way, with
flashing eyes and waving sword, they all swept on through the opening ranks of their loudly-cheering
companions in arms, rapidly deployed into line, and, the next instant, wrapped themselves in
the flame and smoke of their own fire, which burst, with an almost single report, into the
very faces of the astonished foe, whose ranks went down by scores before the leaden blast of
that terrible volley. And, by the time they had recovered from the shock of the unexpected
assault, the relieved and encouraged forces of Stark, now strengthened by the arrival of additional
numbers of the scattered militia, and formed into new and more effective combinations, returned
with, fresh ardor to the contest. And, as the different detachments, moving resolutely on,
with flying colors and rattling drums, to the various points of attack assigned them in front
and around the hostile squares, reached their allotted stations, they successively poured in
their withering volleys till the rebounding plain trembled and shook beneath the tumult and
thunders of a conflict, to which, in obstinacy and sanguinary fierceness, few engagements on
record afford a parallel. On one side was discipline, with revenge, the hope of reward, and
the fear of the disgrace attending defeat, to incite them, to action On the other side, the
stake was home and liberty; and these as the trained officers of Europe soon found to their
astonishment often more than compensated for the lack of discipline and military experience;
for, in contending for a stake of such individual moment, every man in the ranks of freedom,
though frequently wholly untrained, and in battle for the first time in his life, at once became
a warrior, fighting as if the whole responsibility of the issue of the battle rested on his
own shoulders. And, in every part of the field, deeds were performed by nameless peasants rivalling
the most daring exploits of heroes. Here a company of raw militia might be seen rushing upon
a detached column of British veterans, firing in their faces, and, for want of bayonets, knocking
them down with clubbed muskets. There old men and boys, with others who, like them, had come
unarmed and as spectators of the battle, would spring forward after some retreating band, seize
the muskets of the slain, and engage, muzzle to muzzle, with the hated foe. The intrepid Stark,
harboring no thought but of victory, and as regardless of exposure as the unconscious charger
that bore him through the leaden storm, was every where to be seen; now heading an onset--now
dashing off to rouse or rally a faltering column, and now leaping from his horse to show his
inexperienced men how to load and fire the captured cannon; while Warner and Herrick, fit men
to second the efforts of such a chief, were constantly storming, like raging lions, in the
smoke and fire of the hottest of the fight; here breasting, with their brave and unflinching
regiments, the desperate assault, and there, in turn, leading on the resistless charge.

Thus, with the tide of war alternately surging to and fro, like the wild waves of the ocean
lashed by contending winds, continued to rage this fierce and sanguinary conflict, till the
sun went down in the semblant blood with which the smoke of battle had enshrouded him.

But now, soon an unusual commotion, attended with new and rapid movements, was observable among
the contending forces of the field. Presently an exulting shout rose from the American lines;
and the enemy were seen at all points to be giving way. Their retreat, however, though rapid,
was yet, for a while, conducted with order; and they repeatedly turned and made desperate efforts
to resist the fiery tide that, with gathering impetus, was rolling after them. But vain and
fruitless were all their attempts; for, while their whole rear was wasting with frightful rapidity,
under the terrible volleys which were poured upon it, in one incessant blaze, by the hotly
pursuing squadrons of Stark and Warner, a strong detachment of the heroic Rangers, under the
daring lead of the now half-maddened Woodburn rushed forward and fell upon their flank with
a fury that threw their pierced and staggering columns into such disorder and confusion as
to destroy their last indulged hope of escaping in a body from their infuriated pursuers. And,
the next moment, their whole force broke, and, abandoning their cannon and baggage, fled in
a tumultuous rout from the field, some escaping along the road, some yielding themselves prisoners
on the way, and others, to avoid their outstripping pursuers, seeking refuge in the surrounding
forest. But neither road, nor field, nor forest, were this time permitted to afford many of
them the means of escape, or shield them from the harassing pursuit of the exasperated Americans,
who, in furiously-charging columns, overthrew, shot down, or captured, all their broken and
flying bands within reach, in the road and open grounds, or in small parties, or singly, closely
followed and boldly encountered them in the woods, whose dark recesses soon resounded with
the scattering fire, the clashing steel, and the hurrying shout, of the pursued and pursuing
combatants.

But of the scores of promiscuous conflicts and personal encounters which marked the finale
of this memorable triumph and made so conspicuous the prowess of the heroic men by whom it
was achieved, it were in vain for us, within our limits, to attempt a description. There was
one of these encounters, however, which the approaching development of our story requires to
be more particularly noted. And, for this purpose, we will now change the scene to a wild glen,
far within the depths of the forest, where, hedged in by an impassable morass in front, and
steep ledges of rocks on either side, a gang of a half dozen of the fugitive tories, headed
by an officer in British uniform, had turned round with the desperate ferocity of wild beasts,
to give battle to the indefatigable pursuers, who had followed them from the battle-field with
a vigilance and speed from which there was no escape, and with such demonstrations of marksmanship
as had already told fatally on nearly half their numbers on the way. But those pursuers, as
wary as they were brave and untiring, with the double object of concealing the inequality of
their numbers, which were but four, and securing the advantages that a choice of positions
in all sylvan contests especially affords, had instantly fallen back to a line of hastily-selected
coverts, stretching across the gorge, and had now become wholly invisible to their advancing
foes, who soon paused in turn, and, shielding themselves behind the bodies of trees stood eagerly
peering out to catch sight of the objects of their aim. Suddenly the sharp report of a rifle
burst from a bush-covered cleft in the rocks nearly abreast of one of the exposed flanks of
the tories; and the tallest of their number, with a wild start, and half-uttered oath, floundered
into the bushes and fell. The next moment, our old acquaintance, Bart Burt, who, having conveyed
the ladies to their destination, had sped back to the battle-field in time to participate in
the last part of the final action, was seen stealthily creeping round the point of the ledge,
from which the fatal shot had issued, and approaching the leader of the concealed assailants,
who, as the reader may have already anticipated, was no other than Captain Woodburn.

"Bart," said the latter, "you have executed my order as no other man could. But whom have you
slain? Not Peters?"

"No--couldn't get him in range; but did as well, though--may be better--fixed out the only
one whose aim I was 'fraid of--the big, fierce-looking whelp that shot father Herriot, in our
last sally in the field; the same that made that bullet-hole in your coat on the way here;
and the same, too, who would have finished me, likely, but for the glancing of his bullet on
a bush before me. But I have settled all the grudges at a blow, now."

"You have done bravely; but did you discover who they are--any of them besides the leader, Peters?"

"Yes, two of 'em, who are, as Dunning and Piper surmised, Dave Redding and Tiger Fitch, that
beauty of a constable, who bothered us so in old times, at Guilford. He's now some kind of
an officer among 'em, guess; and, dead or alive, I'm bound to have him; though, if you've any
particular plan, captain, I'll follow it, instead of going round to 'tother ledge for another
pick of the flock."

"I have one; and that is, to draw their fire, or most of it, and then rush upon them. You may
creep on, then, to Dunning and Piper, and, with them, contrive and execute some plan to effect
that object, and I will stand here ready to order, and lead the charge, at the favoring moment."

Bart now, with the noiseless tread of a cat, rapidly glided away into the bushes and disappeared
on his errand. In a few minutes, the cracking of sticks, as if under the pressure of cautiously
moving feet, was heard in a thicket of bushes within full range of the guns of the tories,
who, now safely ensconced behind the new coverts, to which, in alarm at Bart's fatal shot,
they had betaken themselves, instantly turned their attention in that direction, and, levelling
their pieces, keenly watched for the expected exposure of the persons of some of their opponents.
Soon the dim outlines of two or three apparently human forms could be traced in the thicket,
rising up one after another, with the quick hesitating motions of men intent on a stealthy
reconnaissance of the objects before them. And, the next moment, every tory, but one, sent
the contents of his gun at these supposed forms of the lurking besiegers. But instead of beholding,
as they had anticipated, the riddled bodies of the dreaded foe dropping to the earth, they
soon discovered, to their astonishment and dismay, that the empty coats and caps, which the
outwitting Rangers had raised on their ramrods over their prostrate persons, were the only
sufferers.

"Der--der--der--ditter ready!" shouted Dunning, in a voice which at last went off like the
terminating clap of a rattling thunder peal, as he and his two associates leaped, coatless,
from the ground, to be prepared for the instant execution of the expected order.

"On, then, and suffer not a wretch of them to escape you alive!" exclaimed their impatient
leader in reply, dashing forward himself, and leading in the headlong onset which they all
now made on the foe.

