BOOKS & CHARACTERS

FRENCH & ENGLISH

By

LYTTON STRACHEY

LONDON

First published May 1922

TO JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES

The following papers are reprinted by kind permission of the Editors of the Independent Review,
the New Quarterly, the Athenaeum, and the Edinburgh Review.

The 'Dialogue' is now printed for the first time, from a manuscript, apparently in the handwriting
of Voltaire and belonging to his English period.

CONTENTS

RACINE                               3 SIR THOMAS BROWNE                   27 SHAKESPEARE'S
FINAL PERIOD          41 THE LIVES OF THE POETS              59 MADAME DU DEFFAND         
67 VOLTAIRE AND ENGLAND                93 A DIALOGUE                         115 VOLTAIRE'S
TRAGEDIES               121 VOLTAIRE AND FREDERICK THE GREAT   137 THE ROUSSEAU AFFAIR    
165 THE POETRY OF BLAKE                179 THE LAST ELIZABETHAN               193 HENRI BEYLE
219 LADY HESTER STANHOPE               241 MR. CREEVEY                        253 INDEX   
261

RACINE

When Ingres painted his vast 'Apotheosis of Homer,' he represented, grouped round the central
throne, all the great poets of the ancient and modern worlds, with a single exception--Shakespeare.
After some persuasion, he relented so far as to introduce into his picture a part of that offensive
personage; and English visitors at the Louvre can now see, to their disgust or their amusement,
the truncated image of rather less than half of the author of King Lear just appearing at the
extreme edge of the enormous canvas. French taste, let us hope, has changed since the days
of Ingres; Shakespeare would doubtless now be advanced--though perhaps chiefly from a sense
of duty--to the very steps of the central throne. But if an English painter were to choose
a similar subject, how would he treat the master who stands acknowledged as the most characteristic
representative of the literature of France? Would Racine find a place in the picture at all?
Or, if he did, would more of him be visible than the last curl of his full-bottomed wig, whisking
away into the outer darkness?

There is something inexplicable about the intensity of national tastes and the violence of
national differences. If, as in the good old days, I could boldly believe a Frenchman to be
an inferior creature, while he, as simply, wrote me down a savage, there would be an easy end
of the matter. But alas! nous avons changé tout cela. Now we are each of us obliged to recognise
that the other has a full share of intelligence, ability, and taste; that the accident of our
having been born on different sides of the Channel is no ground for supposing either that I
am a brute or that he is a ninny. But, in that case, how does it happen that while on one side
of that 'span of waters' Racine is despised and Shakespeare is worshipped, on the other, Shakespeare
is tolerated and Racine is adored? The perplexing question was recently emphasised and illustrated
in a singular way. Mr. John Bailey, in a volume of essays entitled 'The Claims of French Poetry,'
discussed the qualities of Racine at some length, placed him, not without contumely, among
the second rank of writers, and drew the conclusion that, though indeed the merits of French
poetry are many and great, it is not among the pages of Racine that they are to be found. Within
a few months of the appearance of Mr. Bailey's book, the distinguished French writer and brilliant
critic, M. Lemaître, published a series of lectures on Racine, in which the highest note of
unqualified panegyric sounded uninterruptedly from beginning to end. The contrast is remarkable,
and the conflicting criticisms seem to represent, on the whole, the views of the cultivated
classes in the two countries. And it is worthy of note that neither of these critics pays any
heed, either explicitly or by implication, to the opinions of the other. They are totally at
variance, but they argue along lines so different and so remote that they never come into collision.
Mr. Bailey, with the utmost sang-froid, sweeps on one side the whole of the literary tradition
of France. It is as if a French critic were to assert that Shakespeare, the Elizabethans, and
the romantic poets of the nineteenth century were all negligible, and that England's really
valuable contribution to the poetry of the world was to be found among the writings of Dryden
and Pope. M. Lemaître, on the other hand, seems sublimely unconscious that any such views as
Mr. Bailey's could possibly exist. Nothing shows more clearly Racine's supreme dominion over
his countrymen than the fact that M. Lemaître never questions it for a moment, and tacitly
assumes on every page of his book that his only duty is to illustrate and amplify a greatness
already recognised by all. Indeed, after reading M. Lemaître's book, one begins to understand
more clearly why it is that English critics find it difficult to appreciate to the full the
literature of France. It is no paradox to say that that country is as insular as our own. When
we find so eminent a critic as M. Lemaître observing that Racine 'a vraiment "achevé" et porté
à son point suprême de perfection la tragédie, cette étonnante forme d'art, et qui est bien
de chez nous: car on la trouve peu chez les Anglais,' is it surprising that we should hastily
jump to the conclusion that the canons and the principles of a criticism of this kind will
not repay, and perhaps do not deserve, any careful consideration? Certainly they are not calculated
to spare the susceptibilities of Englishmen. And, after all, this is only natural; a French
critic addresses a French audience; like a Rabbi in a synagogue, he has no need to argue and
no wish to convert. Perhaps, too, whether he willed or no, he could do very little to the purpose;
for the difficulties which beset an Englishman in his endeavours to appreciate a writer such
as Racine are precisely of the kind which a Frenchman is least able either to dispel or even
to understand. The object of this essay is, first, to face these difficulties, with the aid
of Mr. Bailey's paper, which sums up in an able and interesting way the average English view
of the matter; and, in the second place, to communicate to the English reader a sense of the
true significance and the immense value of Racine's work. Whether the attempt succeed or fail,
some important general questions of literary doctrine will have been discussed; and, in addition,
at least an effort will have been made to vindicate a great reputation. For, to a lover of
Racine, the fact that English critics of Mr. Bailey's calibre can write of him as they do,
brings a feeling not only of entire disagreement, but of almost personal distress. Strange
as it may seem to those who have been accustomed to think of that great artist merely as a
type of the frigid pomposity of an antiquated age, his music, to ears that are attuned to hear
it, comes fraught with a poignancy of loveliness whose peculiar quality is shared by no other
poetry in the world. To have grown familiar with the voice of Racine, to have realised once
and for all its intensity, its beauty, and its depth, is to have learnt a new happiness, to
have discovered something exquisite and splendid, to have enlarged the glorious boundaries
of art. For such benefits as these who would not be grateful? Who would not seek to make them
known to others, that they too may enjoy, and render thanks?

M. Lemaître, starting out, like a native of the mountains, from a point which can only be reached
by English explorers after a long journey and a severe climb, devotes by far the greater part
of his book to a series of brilliant psychological studies of Racine's characters. He leaves
on one side almost altogether the questions connected both with Racine's dramatic construction,
and with his style; and these are the very questions by which English readers are most perplexed,
and which they are most anxious to discuss. His style in particular--using the word in its
widest sense--forms the subject of the principal part of Mr. Bailey's essay; it is upon this
count that the real force of Mr. Bailey's impeachment depends; and, indeed, it is obvious that
no poet can be admired or understood by those who quarrel with the whole fabric of his writing
and condemn the very principles of his art. Before, however, discussing this, the true crux
of the question, it may be well to consider briefly another matter which deserves attention,
because the English reader is apt to find in it a stumbling-block at the very outset of his
inquiry. Coming to Racine with Shakespeare and the rest of the Elizabethans warm in his memory,
it is only to be expected that he should be struck with a chilling sense of emptiness and unreality.
After the colour, the moving multiplicity, the imaginative luxury of our early tragedies, which
seem to have been moulded out of the very stuff of life and to have been built up with the
varied and generous structure of Nature herself, the Frenchman's dramas, with their rigid uniformity
of setting, their endless duologues, their immense harangues, their spectral confidants, their
strict exclusion of all visible action, give one at first the same sort of impression as a
pretentious pseudo-classical summer-house appearing suddenly at the end of a vista, after one
has been rambling through an open forest. 'La scène est à Buthrote, ville d'Epire, dans une
salle du palais de Pyrrhus'--could anything be more discouraging than such an announcement?
Here is nothing for the imagination to feed on, nothing to raise expectation, no wondrous vision
of 'blasted heaths,' or the 'seaboard of Bohemia'; here is only a hypothetical drawing-room
conjured out of the void for five acts, simply in order that the persons of the drama may have
a place to meet in and make their speeches. The 'three unities' and the rest of the 'rules'
are a burden which the English reader finds himself quite unaccustomed to carry; he grows impatient
of them; and, if he is a critic, he points out the futility and the unreasonableness of those
antiquated conventions. Even Mr. Bailey, who, curiously enough, believes that Racine 'stumbled,
as it were, half by accident into great advantages' by using them, speaks of the 'discredit'
into which 'the once famous unities' have now fallen, and declares that 'the unities of time
and place are of no importance in themselves.' So far as critics are concerned this may be
true; but critics are apt to forget that plays can exist somewhere else than in books, and
a very small acquaintance with contemporary drama is enough to show that, upon the stage at
any rate, the unities, so far from having fallen into discredit, are now in effect triumphant.
For what is the principle which underlies and justifies the unities of time and place? Surely
it is not, as Mr. Bailey would have us believe, that of the 'unity of action or interest,'
for it is clear that every good drama, whatever its plan of construction, must possess a single
dominating interest, and that it may happen--as in Antony and Cleopatra, for instance--that
the very essence of this interest lies in the accumulation of an immense variety of local activities
and the representation of long epochs of time. The true justification for the unities of time
and place is to be found in the conception of drama as the history of a spiritual crisis--the
vision, thrown up, as it were, by a bull's-eye lantern, of the final catastrophic phases of
a long series of events. Very different were the views of the Elizabethan tragedians, who aimed
at representing not only the catastrophe, but the whole development of circumstances of which
it was the effect; they traced, with elaborate and abounding detail, the rise, the growth,
the decline, and the ruin of great causes and great persons; and the result was a series of
masterpieces unparalleled in the literature of the world. But, for good or evil, these methods
have become obsolete, and to-day our drama seems to be developing along totally different lines.
It is playing the part, more and more consistently, of the bull's-eye lantern; it is concerned
with the crisis, and nothing but the crisis; and, in proportion as its field is narrowed and
its vision intensified, the unities of time and place come more and more completely into play.
Thus, from the point of view of form, it is true to say that it has been the drama of Racine
rather than that of Shakespeare that has survived. Plays of the type of Macbeth have been superseded
by plays of the type of Britannicus. Britannicus, no less than Macbeth, is the tragedy of a
criminal; but it shows us, instead of the gradual history of the temptation and the fall, followed
by the fatal march of consequences, nothing but the precise psychological moment in which the
first irrevocable step is taken, and the criminal is made. The method of Macbeth has been,
as it were, absorbed by that of the modern novel; the method of Britannicus still rules the
stage. But Racine carried out his ideals more rigorously and more boldly than any of his successors.
He fixed the whole of his attention upon the spiritual crisis; to him that alone was of importance;
and the conventional classicism so disheartening to the English reader--the 'unities,' the
harangues, the confidences, the absence of local colour, and the concealment of the action--was
no more than the machinery for enhancing the effect of the inner tragedy, and for doing away
with every side issue and every chance of distraction. His dramas must be read as one looks
at an airy, delicate statue, supported by artificial props, whose only importance lies in the
fact that without them the statue itself would break in pieces and fall to the ground. Approached
in this light, even the 'salle du palais de Pyrrhus' begins to have a meaning. We come to realise
that, if it is nothing else, it is at least the meeting-ground of great passions, the invisible
framework for one of those noble conflicts which 'make one little room an everywhere.' It will
show us no views, no spectacles, it will give us no sense of atmosphere or of imaginative romance;
but it will allow us to be present at the climax of a tragedy, to follow the closing struggle
of high destinies, and to witness the final agony of human hearts.

It is remarkable that Mr. Bailey, while seeming to approve of the classicism of Racine's dramatic
form, nevertheless finds fault with him for his lack of a quality with which, by its very nature,
the classical form is incompatible. Racine's vision, he complains, does not 'take in the whole
of life'; we do not find in his plays 'the whole pell-mell of human existence'; and this is
true, because the particular effects which Racine wished to produce necessarily involved this
limitation of the range of his interests. His object was to depict the tragic interaction of
a small group of persons at the culminating height of its intensity; and it is as irrational
to complain of his failure to introduce into his compositions 'the whole pell-mell of human
existence' as it would be to find fault with a Mozart quartet for not containing the orchestration
of Wagner. But it is a little difficult to make certain of the precise nature of Mr. Bailey's
criticism. When he speaks of Racine's vision not including 'the whole of life,' when he declares
that Racine cannot be reckoned as one of the 'world-poets,' he seems to be taking somewhat
different ground and discussing a more general question. All truly great poets, he asserts,
have 'a wide view of humanity,' 'a large view of life'--a profound sense, in short, of the
relations between man and the universe; and, since Racine is without this quality, his claim
to true poetic greatness must be denied. But, even upon the supposition that this view of Racine's
philosophical outlook is the true one--and, in its most important sense, I believe that it
is not--does Mr. Bailey's conclusion really follow? Is it possible to test a poet's greatness
by the largeness of his 'view of life'? How wide, one would like to know, was Milton's 'view
of humanity'? And, though Wordsworth's sense of the position of man in the universe was far
more profound than Dante's, who will venture to assert that he was the greater poet? The truth
is that we have struck here upon a principle which lies at the root, not only of Mr. Bailey's
criticism of Racine, but of an entire critical method--the method which attempts to define
the essential elements of poetry in general, and then proceeds to ask of any particular poem
whether it possesses these elements, and to judge it accordingly. How often this method has
been employed, and how often it has proved disastrously fallacious! For, after all, art is
not a superior kind of chemistry, amenable to the rules of scientific induction. Its component
parts cannot be classified and tested, and there is a spark within it which defies foreknowledge.
When Matthew Arnold declared that the value of a new poem might be gauged by comparing it with
the greatest passages in the acknowledged masterpieces of literature, he was falling into this
very error; for who could tell that the poem in question was not itself a masterpiece, living
by the light of an unknown beauty, and a law unto itself? It is the business of the poet to
break rules and to baffle expectation; and all the masterpieces in the world cannot make a
precedent. Thus Mr. Bailey's attempts to discover, by quotations from Shakespeare, Sophocles,
and Goethe, the qualities without which no poet can be great, and his condemnation of Racine
because he is without them, is a fallacy in criticism. There is only one way to judge a poet,
as Wordsworth, with that paradoxical sobriety so characteristic of him, has pointed out--and
that is, by loving him. But Mr. Bailey, with regard to Racine at any rate, has not followed
the advice of Wordsworth. Let us look a little more closely into the nature of his attack.

'L'épithète rare,' said the De Goncourts,'voilà la marque de l'écrivain.' Mr. Bailey quotes
the sentence with approval, observing that if, with Sainte-Beuve, we extend the phrase to 'le
mot rare,' we have at once one of those invaluable touch-stones with which we may test the
merit of poetry. And doubtless most English readers would be inclined to agree with Mr. Bailey,
for it so happens that our own literature is one in which rarity of style, pushed often to
the verge of extravagance, reigns supreme. Owing mainly, no doubt, to the double origin of
our language, with its strange and violent contrasts between the highly-coloured crudity of
the Saxon words and the ambiguous splendour of the Latin vocabulary; owing partly, perhaps,
to a national taste for the intensely imaginative, and partly, too, to the vast and penetrating
influence of those grand masters of bizarrerie--the Hebrew Prophets--our poetry, our prose,
and our whole conception of the art of writing have fallen under the dominion of the emphatic,
the extraordinary, and the bold. No one in his senses would regret this, for it has given our
literature all its most characteristic glories, and, of course, in Shakespeare, with whom expression
is stretched to the bursting point, the national style finds at once its consummate example
and its final justification. But the result is that we have grown so unused to other kinds
of poetical beauty, that we have now come to believe, with Mr. Bailey, that poetry apart from
'le mot rare' is an impossibility. The beauties of restraint, of clarity, of refinement, and
of precision we pass by unheeding; we can see nothing there but coldness and uniformity; and
we go back with eagerness to the fling and the bravado that we love so well. It is as if we
had become so accustomed to looking at boxers, wrestlers, and gladiators that the sight of
an exquisite minuet produced no effect on us; the ordered dance strikes us as a monotony, for
we are blind to the subtle delicacies of the dancers, which are fraught with such significance
to the practised eye. But let us be patient, and let us look again.

    Ariane ma soeur, de quel amour blessée,
    Vous mourûtes aux bords où vous fûtes laissée.

Here, certainly, are no 'mots rares'; here is nothing to catch the mind or dazzle the understanding;
here is only the most ordinary vocabulary, plainly set forth. But is there not an enchantment?
Is there not a vision? Is there not a flow of lovely sound whose beauty grows upon the ear,
and dwells exquisitely within the memory? Racine's triumph is precisely this--that he brings
about, by what are apparently the simplest means, effects which other poets must strain every
nerve to produce. The narrowness of his vocabulary is in fact nothing but a proof of his amazing
art. In the following passage, for instance, what a sense of dignity and melancholy and power
is conveyed by the commonest words!

    Enfin j'ouvre les yeux, et je me fais justice:
    C'est faire à vos beautés un triste sacrifice
    Que de vous présenter, madame, avec ma foi,
    Tout l'âge et le malheur que je traîne avec moi.
    Jusqu'ici la fortune et la victoire mêmes
    Cachaient mes cheveux blancs sous trente diadèmes.
    Mais ce temps-là n'est plus: je régnais; et je fuis:
    Mes ans se sont accrus; mes honneurs sont detruits.

Is that wonderful 'trente' an 'épithète rare'? Never, surely, before or since, was a simple
numeral put to such a use--to conjure up so triumphantly such mysterious grandeurs! But these
are subtleties which pass unnoticed by those who have been accustomed to the violent appeals
of the great romantic poets. As Sainte-Beuve says, in a fine comparison between Racine and
Shakespeare, to come to the one after the other is like passing to a portrait by Ingres from
a decoration by Rubens. At first, 'comme on a l'oeil rempli de l'éclatante vérité pittoresque
du grand maître flamand, on ne voit dans l'artiste français qu'un ton assez uniforme, une teinte
diffuse de pâle et douce lumière. Mais qu'on approche de plus près et qu'on observe avec soin:
mille nuances fines vont éclore sous le regard; mille intentions savantes vont sortir de ce
tissu profond et serré; on ne peut plus en détacher ses yeux.'

Similarly when Mr. Bailey, turning from the vocabulary to more general questions of style,
declares that there is no 'element of fine surprise' in Racine, no trace of the 'daring metaphors
and similes of Pindar and the Greek choruses--the reply is that he would find what he wants
if he only knew where to look for it. 'Who will forget,' he says, 'the comparison of the Atreidae
to the eagles wheeling over their empty nest, of war to the money-changer whose gold dust is
that of human bodies, of Helen to the lion's whelps?... Everyone knows these. Who will match
them among the formal elegances of Racine?' And it is true that when Racine wished to create
a great effect he did not adopt the romantic method; he did not chase his ideas through the
four quarters of the universe to catch them at last upon the verge of the inane; and anyone
who hopes to come upon 'fine surprises' of this kind in his pages will be disappointed. His
daring is of a different kind; it is not the daring of adventure but of intensity; his fine
surprises are seized out of the very heart of his subject, and seized in a single stroke. Thus
many of his most astonishing phrases burn with an inward concentration of energy, which, difficult
at first to realise to the full, comes in the end to impress itself ineffaceably upon the mind.

    C'était pendant l'horreur d'une profonde nuit.

The sentence is like a cavern whose mouth a careless traveller might pass by, but which opens
out, to the true explorer, into vista after vista of strange recesses rich with inexhaustible
gold. But, sometimes, the phrase, compact as dynamite, explodes upon one with an immediate
and terrific force--

    C'est Vénus toute entière à sa proie attachée!

A few 'formal elegances' of this kind are surely worth having.

But what is it that makes the English reader fail to recognise the beauty and the power of
such passages as these? Besides Racine's lack of extravagance and bravura, besides his dislike
of exaggerated emphasis and far-fetched or fantastic imagery, there is another characteristic
of his style to which we are perhaps even more antipathetic--its suppression of detail. The
great majority of poets--and especially of English poets--produce their most potent effects
by the accumulation of details--details which in themselves fascinate us either by their beauty
or their curiosity or their supreme appropriateness. But with details Racine will have nothing
to do; he builds up his poetry out of words which are not only absolutely simple but extremely
general, so that our minds, failing to find in it the peculiar delights to which we have been
accustomed, fall into the error of rejecting it altogether as devoid of significance. And the
error is a grave one, for in truth nothing is more marvellous than the magic with which Racine
can conjure up out of a few expressions of the vaguest import a sense of complete and intimate
reality. When Shakespeare wishes to describe a silent night he does so with a single stroke
of detail--'not a mouse stirring'! And Virgil adds touch upon touch of exquisite minutiae:

    Cum tacet omnis ager, pecudes, pictaeque volucres,
    Quaeque lacus late liquidos, quaeque aspera dumis
    Rura tenent, etc.

Racine's way is different, but is it less masterly?

    Mais tout dort, et l'armée, et les vents, et Neptune.

What a flat and feeble set of expressions! is the Englishman's first thought--with the conventional
'Neptune,' and the vague 'armée,' and the commonplace 'vents.' And he forgets to notice the
total impression which these words produce--the atmosphere of darkness and emptiness and vastness
and ominous hush.

It is particularly in regard to Racine's treatment of nature that this generalised style creates
misunderstandings. 'Is he so much as aware,' exclaims Mr. Bailey, 'that the sun rises and sets
in a glory of colour, that the wind plays deliciously on human cheeks, that the human ear will
never have enough of the music of the sea? He might have written every page of his work without
so much as looking out of the window of his study.' The accusation gains support from the fact
that Racine rarely describes the processes of nature by means of pictorial detail; that, we
know, was not his plan. But he is constantly, with his subtle art, suggesting them. In this
line, for instance, he calls up, without a word of definite description, the vision of a sudden
and brilliant sunrise:

    Déjà le jour plus grand nous frappe et nous éclaire.

And how varied and beautiful are his impressions of the sea! He can give us the desolation
of a calm:

                        La rame inutile
    Fatigua vainement une mer immobile;

or the agitated movements of a great fleet of galleys:

    Voyez tout l'Hellespont blanchissant sous nos rames;

or he can fill his verses with the disorder and the fury of a storm:

    Quoi! pour noyer les Grecs et leurs mille vaisseaux,
    Mer, tu n'ouvriras pas des abymes nouveaux!
    Quoi! lorsque les chassant du port qui les recèle,
    L'Aulide aura vomi leur flotte criminelle,
    Les vents, les mêmes vents, si longtemps accusés,
    Ne te couvriront pas de ses vaisseaux brisés!

And then, in a single line, he can evoke the radiant spectacle of a triumphant flotilla riding
the dancing waves:

    Prêts à vous recevoir mes vaisseaux vous attendent;
    Et du pied de l'autel vous y pouvez monter,
    Souveraine des mers qui vous doivent porter.

The art of subtle suggestion could hardly go further than in this line, where the alliterating
v's, the mute e's, and the placing of the long syllables combine so wonderfully to produce
the required effect.

But it is not only suggestions of nature that readers like Mr. Bailey are unable to find in
Racine--they miss in him no less suggestions of the mysterious and the infinite. No doubt this
is partly due to our English habit of associating these qualities with expressions which are
complex and unfamiliar. When we come across the mysterious accent of fatality and remote terror
in a single perfectly simple phrase--

    La fille de Minos et de Pasiphaé

