PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 150

FEBRUARY 23, 1916.

CHARIVARIA.

The threatened shortage of paper has led a few unkind persons to enquire upon what our diplomatic
victories are hereafter to be achieved.

       ***

An interned German was recently given a week's freedom in which to get married, and the interesting
question has now been raised as to whether his children, when they reach the age of twenty-one,
will be liable to the Conscription Act or will have to be interned as alien enemies.

       ***

According to Miss ELLEN TERRY but little attention has been given by the critics to the letters
in SHAKSPEARE'S plays. We rather thought that one of Germany's intelligent young professors
had recently subjected the letters to a searching analysis, the result being to establish beyond
a reasonable doubt that England started the War.

       ***

From The Observer:--

    "The King has sent a congratulatory letter to Mrs. Mann of
    Nottingham, who has nine sons serving in the Army and Navy. This
    is believed to be a record for one working-class family."

Though a mere bagatelle, of course, for the idle rich.

       ***

We regret to read of the death from tuberculosis of one of the most popular and playful of
the Zoological Society's crocodiles. Death is said to have been hastened by a severe chill
contracted by the intelligent reptile as the result of leaving off a warm undervest, the gift
of an elderly female admirer, in order to pursue, in jest, of course, the keeper of the reptile
house down a drain.

       ***

A Persian newspaper entitled Kaveh is now being published in Berlin for the purpose of increasing
popular interest in Persian affairs. Its title is short for "Kaveh kanem!" (Beware of the Bulldog!)

       ***

Women who have volunteered to do agricultural work in place of men called to the colours will
wear a green armlet, green being selected in preference to red on account of the possibility
of cows.

       ***

The proposal that wives whose husbands, though of military age, have not attested under the
Derby Act shall be allowed to wear a ribbon on the left arm to signify that it is not their
fault, is said to have received considerable support.

       ***

There is no pleasing everybody. Last week Mr. TENNANT told the House of Commons that hereafter
"the Navy would undertake to deal with all hostile aircraft attempting to reach this country,
while the Army undertook to deal with all aircraft which reached these shores." And now the
Horse Marines are asking bitterly why they are not to be permitted to share in the great work.

       ***

       ***

The German Government has put restrictions on the sale of sauerkraut, and a hideous rumour
is afoot to the effect that they are preparing to use it on the prisoners by forcible feeding.

       ***

It is said of the Chicago meat-packers that they use every part of the pig except the squeal.
As the result of the restriction put upon wood pulp an equally economical process is to be
applied to our old newspapers.

       ***

    "Several new records were established at the Geelong wool sales,
    including 20d. for greasy merino lambs.--Reuter."

This revival of the ancient pastime of chasing the greasy lamb will be of interest to antiquarians.

       ***

From The Irish Times: "Wanted Lad as assistant plumber. Experience not necessary." After all
there is something to be said for the ravages of war.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERZERUM: A SET-BACK IN THE HOLY WAR.

Kaiser to Sultan

  My Moslem brother, this is sad, sad news,
    So sad that I permit myself to mention
  How much it modifies my sanguine views
      Of Allah's intervention.

  In that combine for holy ends and high
    Of which I let him figure as the joint head
  I must (between ourselves) confess that I
      Am gravely disappointed.

  Without his help I did the Balkan stunt,
    But when I left him to his own devices
  To operate upon a local front
      He failed me at the crisis.

  I could not run the show in every scene,
    Not all at once; and Caucasus was chilly--
  Fifty degrees of frost, which would have been
      Bad for the health of WILLIE.

  And then to think that he should let me down
    When I was sore in need of heavenly comfort,
  Making the Christian free of Erzerum town,
      Which, as you know, is "some" fort.

  Not that I mind the mere material loss,
    But poor Armenia, hitherto quiescent,
  Who sees the barbarous brigands of the Cross
      Trampling her trusted Crescent!

  True, you have spared the major part this pain,
    But for the remnant, who escaped your heeding,
  My heart (recovered, thank you, from Louvain),
      Once more has started bleeding.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY WAR STORIES.

Did you ever try to write War stories? I am not alluding to Press telegrams from Athens, Amsterdam
or Copenhagen, but legitimate magazine fiction. Once I was reasonably competent and could rake
in my modest share of War profits. But recently Clibbers, of the International Fiction Syndicate,
approached me and said, "Old man, do me some War stuff. Anything you like, but it must have
a novel climax."

"Not in a War story," I protested.

"Can you deliver the goods?" said Clibbers sternly.

After that what could I do but alter the stories I had in stock.

For example there was my fine story, "Retrieved." The innocent convict (would that I had the
happy innocence of the convict of fiction!) emerges from Portmoor. In a few well-chosen words
the genial old prison governor (to avoid libel actions I hasten to say that no allusion is
made to any living person) advises the released man to make a new career. The convict marches
to the recruiting office and enlists. In a couple of paragraphs he is at the Front; on the
second page he saves the Colonel's life, captures a German trench on page three, and in less
time than it takes to do it gains the V.C., discovers the villain dying repentant with a full
confession in his left puttee, and embraces the girl who chanced to be Red-Crossing in the
rear of the German position--presumably having arrived there by aeroplane. This seemed to me
both probable and credible in a magazine. Still a novel climax was needed. After the few well-chosen
words from the prison governor I took the convict to the nearest public-house, let him discover
that the new restrictions were in force, and brought the story to a novel conclusion by making
him say with oaths to the recruiting officer that he would be jiggered if ever he formed fours
for such a rotten old country.

I thought that, at any rate, I had provided one surprise for my readers. Then I turned to my
psychological study, entitled "The Funk." There wasn't much story in this, but a good deal
about a man's sensations when in danger. I could picture the horror of it from personal experience,
for my rear rank man has nearly brained me a dozen times when the specials have bayonet drill
(I also have nearly brained--but I am wandering from the subject). Well, the Funk at the critical
moment ran away, but, being muddled by German gas clouds, ran straight into the German lines.
He thought that people were trying to intercept his flight. In panic he cut them down. At the
last moment he cut the CROWN PRINCE'S smile in twain. (In fiction, mark you, it is quite allowable
to put the CROWN PRINCE into the firing line). Then came glory, the D.C.M. and a portrait of
some one else with the Funk's name attached in The Daily Snap. However, novelty was needed.
I concluded by leaving the Funk hiding in a dug-out when the British charged and eating the
regiment's last pot of strawberry jam.

I turned to another romance, entitled "Secret Service," and found to my joy that this needed
very little alteration. The hero chanced to be in Germany at the outset of the war. He was
imprisoned at Ruhleben, Potsdam, Dantzic, Frankfort and Wilhelmshaven. He escaped from these
places by swimming the Rhine (thrice), the Danube, the Meuse, the Elbe, the Vistula, the Bug,
the Volga, the Kiel Canal and Lake Geneva. He chloroformed, sandbagged, choked and gagged sentinels
throughout the length and breadth of Germany. From under a railway carriage seat he overheard
a conversation between ENVER BEY and BERNHARDI. Concealed beneath a pew at a Lutheran church
he heard COUNT ZEP. and VON TIRP. exchanging deadly secrets. Finally he emerged from a grandfather's
clock as the KAISER was handing the CROWN PRINCE some immensely important documents, snatched
them, stole an aeroplane, bombed a Zeppelin or two on his homeward way, and landed exhausted
at Lord KITCHENER'S feet. Here came the change. Instead of opening the parcel to discover the
plans of the German staff, the WAR SECRETARY found in his hand this document:--

"Sausage Prices in Berlin: Pork Sausage, 3 marks 80 pf.; Horse Sausage, 3 marks 45 pf.; Dog
Sausage, 2 marks 95 pf. Gott mit uns.--WILHELM."

I sent the three romances to Clibbers and waited his reply with anxiety. It came promptly and
as follows:--"Are you mad?--CLIBBERS."

Instantly I sent him the first versions of these magnificent fictions. He phoned me at once,
"That's the kind of novelty I want. Send me some more."

You will see "Retrieved," "The Funk," and "Secret Service" in the magazines shortly. Don't
trouble if the titles differ. After all, there are only three genuine War story plots.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE STORIES OF OLD LONDON.

(With acknowledgments to "The Evening News.")

Mr. George Washington Turpin, Islington, writes:--

    "I wonder if Mr. G. R. Sims remembers a curious horsey character
    known as John Gilpin, who rode in state one day from his home in
    the City to the Bell at Edmonton. I shall never forget the crowd
    that assembled to see him pass through Islington. It's quite a
    while ago and my memory is not so clear as it might be, but
    being a bit of a road-hog he missed the Bell and went on to York
    or somewhere."

       *       *       *       *       *

DUAL CONTROL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SIMMERERS.

"I shall never shake it off," said Francesca. It was six o'clock and she had just come in from
having tea with some friends.

"Shake what off?" I said.

"My Cimmerian gloom," she said. "Haven't you noticed it?"

"No," I said, "I can't say I have. Perhaps if you stood with your back to the light--yes, there's
just a soupçon of it now, but nothing that I could honestly call Cimmerian."

"Of course you'd be sure to say that. I can never get you to believe in my headaches, and now
you won't notice my Cimmerian gloom."

"Francesca," I said, "I do not like to hear you speak lightly of your headaches. To me they
are sacred institutions, and I should never dare to tamper with them. Don't I always walk on
tiptoe and speak in a whisper when you have a headache? You know I do, even when you don't
happen to be in the room. If your gloom is the same sort of thing as your headache----"

"It's much worse."

"If it's only as bad I'm prepared to give it a most respectful welcome. But what is it all about?"

"It's about the War."

"God bless my soul, you don't say so. You're generally so cheerful about it and so hopeful
about our winning. What has happened to give you the hump? We've blown up any amount of mines
and occupied the craters, and we've driven down several German aeroplanes."

"Yes, I know," she said, "I admit all that; but I've just met Mrs. Rowley."

"And a very cheery little party she is, too."

"That," said Francesca, "is just it."

"What's just what?" I said.

