The window was too small for a man of the Monsignor's girth, but through the rear door the
two crawled out comfortably, Monsignor dragging the satchel and murmuring cheerfully: "How
lucky! the holy oils!" It was just sundown, and the wrecked train lay in a meadow, with a pretty
stream running by, whose placid ripplings mocked the tumult of the mortals examining their
injuries in the field. Yet no one had been seriously injured. Bruises and cuts were plentiful,
some fainted from shock, but each was able to do for himself, not so much as a bone having
been broken. For a few minutes the Monsignor rejoiced that he would have no use for what he
called the holy oils. Then a trainman came running, white and broken-tongued, crying out: "There
was a priest on the train--who has seen him?" It turned out that the fireman had been caught
in the wrecked locomotive, and crushed to death.

"And it's a priest he's cryin' for, sir," groaned the trainman, as he came up to the Monsignor.
The dying man lay in the shade of some trees beside the stream, and a lovely woman had his
head in her lap, and wept silently while the poor boy gasped every now and then "mother" and
"the priest." She wiped the death-dew from his face, from which the soot had been washed with
water from the stream, and moistened his lips with a cordial. He was a youth, of the kind that
should not die too early, so vigorous was his young body, so manly and true his dear face;
but it was only a matter of ten minutes stay beside the little stream for Tim Hurley. The group
about him made way for Monsignor, who sank on his knees beside him, and held up the boy's face
to the fading light.

"The priest is here, Tim," he said gently, and Endicott saw the receding life rush back with
joy into the agonized features. With something like a laugh he raised his inert hands, and
seized the hands of the priest, which he covered with kisses.

"I shall die happy, thanks be to God," he said weakly; "and, father, don't forget to tell my
mother. It's her last consolation, poor dear."

"And I have the holy oils, Tim," said Monsignor softly.

Another rush of light to the darkening face!

"Tell her that, too, father dear," said Tim.

"With my own lips," answered Monsignor.

The bystanders moved away a little distance, and the lady resigned her place, while Tim made
his last confession. Endicott stood and wondered at the sight; the priest holding the boy's
head with his left arm, close to his bosom and Tim grasping lovingly the hand of his friend,
while he whispered in little gasps his sins and his repentance; briefly, for time was pressing.
Then Monsignor called Horace and bade him support the lad's head; and also the lovely lady
and gave her directions "for his mother's sake." She was woman and mother both, no doubt, by
the way she served another woman's son in his fatal distress. The men brought her water from
the stream. With her own hands she bared his feet, bathed and wiped them, washed his hands,
and cried tenderly all the time. Horace shuddered as he dried the boy's sweating forehead,
and felt the chill of that death which had never yet come near him. He saw now what the priest
meant by the holy oils. Out of his satchel Monsignor took a golden cylinder, unscrewed the
top, dipped his thumb in what appeared to be an oily substance, and applied it to Tim's eyes,
to his ears, his nose, his mouth, the palms of his hands, and the soles of his feet, distinctly
repeating certain Latin invocations as he worked. Then he read for some time from a little
book, and finished by wiping his fingers in cotton and returning all to the satchel again.
There was a look of supreme satisfaction on his face.

"You are all right now, Tim," he said cheerfully.

"All right, father," repeated the lad faintly, "and don't forget to tell mother everything,
and say I died happy, praising God, and that she won't be long after me. And let Harry Cutler"--the
engineer came forward and knelt by his side--"tell her everything. She knew how he liked me
and a word from him was more----"

His voice faded away.

"I'll tell her," murmured the engineer brokenly, and slipped away in unbearable distress. The
priest looked closer into Tim's face.

"He's going fast," he said, "and I'll ask you all to kneel and say amen to the last prayers
for the boy."

The crowd knelt by the stream in profound silence, and the voice of the priest rose like splendid
music, touching, sad, yet to Horace unutterably pathetic and grand.

"Go forth, O Christian soul," the Monsignor read, "in the name of God the Father Almighty,
who created thee; in the name of Jesus Christ, Son of the living God, who suffered for thee;
in the name of the Holy Ghost, who was poured forth upon thee; in the name of the Angels and
Archangels; in the name of the Thrones and Dominations; in the name of the Principalities and
Powers; in the name of the Cherubim and Seraphim; in the name of the Patriarchs and Prophets;
in the name of the holy Apostles and Evangelists; in the name of the holy Martyrs and Confessors;
in the name of the holy Monks and Hermits; in the name of the holy Virgins and of all the Saints
of God; may thy place be this day in peace, and thy abode in holy Sion. Through Jesus Christ
our Lord. Amen."

Then came a pause and the heavy sigh of the dying one shook all hearts. Endicott did not dare
to look down at the mournful face of the fireman, for a terror of death had come upon him,
that he should be holding the head of one condemned to the last penalty of nature; at the same
moment he could not help thinking that a king might not have been more nobly sent forth on
his journey to judgment than humble Tim Hurley. Monsignor took another look at the lad's face,
then closed his book, and took off the purple ribbon which had hung about his neck.

"It's over. The man's dead," he announced to the silent crowd. There was a general stir, and
a movement to get a closer look at the quiet body lying on the grass. Endicott laid the head
down and rose to his feet. The woman who had ministered to the dying so sweetly tied up his
chin and covered his face, murmuring with tears, "His poor mother."

"Ah, there is the heart to be pitied," sighed the Monsignor. "This heart aches no more, but
the mother's will ache and not die for many a year perhaps."

Endicott heard his voice break, and looking saw that the tears were falling from his eyes,
he wiping them away in the same matter-of-fact fashion which had marked his ministrations to
the unfortunate fireman.

"Death is terrible only to those who love," he added, and the words sent a pang into the heart
of Horace. It had never occurred to him that death was love's most dreaded enemy,--that Sonia
might die while love was young.

CHAPTER II.

THE NIGHT AT THE TAVERN.

The travelers of the wrecked train spent the night at the nearest village, whither all went
on foot before darkness came on. Monsignor took possession of Horace, also of the affections
of the tavern-keeper, and of the best things which belonged to that yokel and his hostelry.
It was prosperity in the midst of disaster that he and Endicott should have a room on the first
floor, and find themselves comfortable in ten minutes after their arrival. By the time they
had enjoyed a refreshing meal, and discussed the accident to the roots, Horace Endicott felt
that his soul was at ease with the Monsignor, who at no time had displayed any other feeling
than might arise from a long acquaintance with the young man. One would have pronounced the
two men, as they settled down into the comfort of their room, two collegians who had traveled
much together.

"It was an excellent thing that I brought the holy oils along," Monsignor said, as if Endicott
had no other interest in life than this particular form of excellence. To a polite inquiry
he explained the history, nature, and use of the mysterious oils.

"I can understand how a ceremony of that kind would soothe the last hours of Tim Hurley," said
the pagan Endicott, "but I am curious, if you will pardon me, to know if the holy oils would
have a similar effect on Monsignor O'Donnell."

"The same old supposition," chuckled the priest, "that there is one law for the crowd, the
mob, the diggers, and another for the illuminati. Now, let me tell you, Mr. Endicott, that
with all his faith Tim Hurley could not have welcomed priest and oils more than I shall when
I need them. The anguish of death is very bitter, which you are too young to know, and it is
a blessed thing to have a sovereign ready for that anguish in the Sacrament of Extreme Unction.
The Holy Oils are the thing which Macbeth desired when he demanded so bitterly of the physician.

That is my conviction. So if you are near when I am going to judgment, come in and see how
emphatically I shall demand the holy oils, even before a priest be willing to bring them."

"It seems strange," Horace commented, "very strange. I cannot get at your point of view at all."

Then he went on to ask questions rapidly, and Monsignor had to explain the meaning of his title,
a hundred things connected with his priesthood, and to answer many objections to his explanations;
until the night had worn on to bedtime, and the crowd of guests began to depart from the verandahs.
It was all so interesting to Horace. In the priest and his conversation he had caught a glimpse
of a new world both strange and fascinating. Curious too was the profound indifference of men
like himself--college men--to its existence. It did not seem possible that the Roman idea could
grow into proportions under the bilious eyes of the omniscient Saxon, and not a soul be aware
of its growth! However, Monsignor was a pleasant man, a true college lad, an interesting talker,
with music in his voice, and a sincere eye. He was not a controversialist, but a critic, and
he did not seem to mind when Horace went off into a dream of Sonia, and asked questions far
from the subject.

Long afterwards Endicott recalled a peculiarity of this night, which escaped his notice at
the time: his sensitiveness to every detail of their surroundings, to the colors of the room,
to the shades of meaning in the words of the Monsignor, to his tricks of speech and tone, quite
unusual in Horace's habit. Sonia complained that he never could tell her anything clear or
significant of places he had seen. The room which had been secured from the landlord was the
parlor of the tavern; long and low, colonial in the very smell of the tapestry carpet, with
doors and mantel that made one think of John Adams and General Washington. The walls had a
certain terror in them, a kind of suspense, as when a jury sits petrified while their foreman
announces a verdict of death. A long line of portraits in oil produced this impression. The
faces of ancient neighbors, of the Adams, the Endicotts, the Bradburys, severe Puritans, for
whom the name of priest meant a momentary stoppage of the heart, looked coldly and precisely
straight out from their frames on the Monsignor. Horace fancied that they exchanged glances.
What fun it would have been to see the entire party move out from their frames, and put the
wearer of the Roman purple to shameful flight.

"I'll bet they don't let you sleep to-night," he said to the priest, who laughed at the conceit.

A cricket came out on the window-sill, chirped at Horace's elbow, and fled at the sound of
near voices. Through the thick foliage of the chestnut trees outside he could see stars at
times that made him think of Sonia's eyes. The wind shook the branches gently, and made little
moans and whispers in the corners, as if the ghosts of the portraits were discussing the sacrilege
of the Monsignor's presence. Horace thought at the time his nerves were strung tight by the
incidents of the day, and his interest deeply stirred by the conversation of the priest; since
hitherto he had always thought of wind as a thing that blew disagreeably except at sea, noisy
insects as public nuisances to be caught and slain, and family portraits the last praiseworthy
attempt of ancestors to disturb the sleep of their remote heirs. When he had somewhat tired
of asking his companion questions, it occurred to him that the Monsignor had asked none in
return, and might waive his right to this privilege of good-fellowship. He mentioned the matter.

"Thank you," said Monsignor, "but I know all about you. See now if I give you a good account
of your life and descent."

He was promenading the room before the picture-jury frowning on him. He looked at them a moment
solemnly.

"Indeed I know what I would have to expect from you," he said to the portraits, "if you were
to sit upon my case to-night. Your descendant here is more merciful."

They laughed together.

"Well," to Horace, "you asked me many questions, because you know nothing about me or mine,
although we have been on the soil this half century. The statesmen of your blood disdain me.
This scorn is in the air of New England, and is part of your marrow. Here is an example of
it. Once on a vacation I spent a few weeks in the house of a Puritan lady, who learned of my
faith and blood only a week before my leaving. She had been very kind, and when I bade her
good-by I assured her that I would remember her in my prayers. 'You needn't mind,' she replied,
'my own prayers are much better than any you can say.' This temper explains why you have to
ask questions about me, and I have none to ask concerning you."

Horace had to admit the contention.

"Life began for you near the river that turned the wheel of the old sawmill. Ah, that river!
It was the beginning of history, of time, of life! It came from the beyond and it went over
the rim of the wonderful horizon, singing and laughing like a child. How often you dreamed
of following it to its end, where you were certain a glory, felt only in your dreams, filled
the land. The fishes only could do that, for they had no feet to be tired by walking. Your
first mystery was that wheel which the water turned: a monstrous thing, a giant, ugly and deadly,
whose first movement sent you off in terror. How could it be that the gentle, smiling, yielding
water, which took any shape from a baby hand, had power to speed that giant! The time came
when you bathed in the stream, mastered it, in spite of the terror which it gave you one day
when it swallowed the life of a comrade. Do you remember this?"

Monsignor held up his hand with two fingers stretched out beyond the others, and gave a gentle
war-whoop. Horace laughed.

"I suppose every boy in the country invited his chums to a swim that way," he said.

"Just so. The sign language was universal. The old school on the village green succeeded the
river and the mill in your history. Miss Primby taught it, dear old soul, gentler than a mother
even, and you laughed at her curls, and her funny ways, which hid from child's eyes a noble
heart. It was she who bound up your black eye after the battle with Bouncer, the bully, whose
face and reputation you wrecked in the same hour for his oppression of the most helpless boy
in school. That feat made you the leader of the secret society which met at awful hours in
the deserted shanty just below the sawmill. What a creep went up and down your spine as in
the chill of the evening the boys came stealing out of the undergrowth one by one, and greeted
their chief with the password, known by every parent in town. The stars looked down upon you
as they must have looked upon all the great conspirators of time since the world began. You
felt that the life of the government hung by a thread, when such desperate characters took
the risk of conspiring against it. What a day was July the Fourth--what wretches were the British--what
a hero was General Washington! What land was like this country of the West? Its form on the
globe was a promontory while all others lay very low on the plane."

"In that spirit you went to Harvard and ran full against some great questions of life. The
war was on, and your father was at the front. Only your age, your father's orders, and your
mother's need held you back from the fight. You were your mother's son. It is written all over
you,--and me. And your father loved you doubly that you were his son and owned her nature.
He fell in battle, and she was slain by a crueller foe, the grief that, seizing us, will not
let us live even for those we love. God rest the faithful dead, give peace to their souls,
and complete their love and their labors! My father and mother are living yet--the sweetest
of blessings at my time of life. You grieved as youth grieves, but life had its compensations.
You are a married man, and you love as your parents loved, with the fire and tenderness of
both. Happy man! Fortunate woman!"

He stopped before the nearest portrait, and stared at it.

"Well, what do you think of my acquaintance with your history?" he asked.

"Very clever, Monsignor," answered Horace impressed. "It is like necromancy, though I see how
the trick is done."

"Precisely. It is my own story. It is the story of thousands of boys whom your set will not
regard as American boys, unless when they are looking for fighting material. Everything and
anything that could carry a gun in the recent war was American with a vengeance. The Boston
Coriolanus kissed such an one and swore that he must have come over in the Mayflower. But enough--I
am not holding a brief for anybody. The description I have just given you of your life and
mine is also----"

"One moment--pardon me," said Horace, "how did you know I was married?"

"And happy?" said Monsignor. "Well, that was easy. When we were talking to-night at tea about
the hanging of Howard Tims, what disgust in your tone when you cried out, there should be no
pity for the wretch that kills his wife."

"And there should not."

"Of course. But I knew Tims. I met him for an hour, and I did not feel like hanging him."

"You are a celibate."

"Therefore unprejudiced. But he was condemned by a jury of unmarried men. A clever fellow he
is, and yet he made some curious blunders in his attempt to escape the other night. I would
like to have helped him. I have a theory of disappearing from the sight of men, which would
help the desperate much. This Tims was a lad of your own appearance, disposition, history even.
I had a feeling that he ought not to die. What a pity we are too wise to yield always to our
feelings."

"But about your theory, Monsignor?" said Horace. "A theory of disappearing?"

"A few nights ago some friends of mine were discussing the possible methods by which such a
man as Tims might make his escape sure. You know that the influences at his command were great,
and tremendous efforts were made to spare his family the disgrace of the gallows. The officers
of the law were quite determined that he should not escape. If he had escaped, the pursuit
would have been relentless and able. He would have been caught. And as I maintained, simply
because he would never think of using his slight acquaintance with me. You smile at that. So
did my friends. I have been reading up the escapes of famous criminals--it is quite a literature.
I learned therein one thing: that they were all caught again because they could not give up
connection with their past: with the people, the scenes, the habits to which they had been
accustomed. So they left a little path from their hiding-place to the past, and the clever
detectives always found it. Thinking over this matter I discovered that there is an art of
disappearing, a real art, which many have used to advantage. The principle by which this art
may be formulated is simple: the person disappearing must cut himself off from his past as
completely as if he had been secretly drowned in mid-ocean."

"They all seem to do that," said Horace, "and yet they are caught as easily as rats with traps
and cheese."

"I see you think this art means running away to Brazil in a wig and blue spectacles, as they
do in a play. Let me show some of the consequences a poor devil takes upon himself who follows
the art like an artist. He must escape, not only from his pursuers--that's easy--but from his
friends--not so easy--and chiefly from himself--there's the rub. He who flies from the relentless
pursuit of the law must practically die. He must change his country, never meet friend or relative
again, get a new language, a new trade, a new place in society; in fact a new past, peopled
with parents and relatives, a new habit of body and life, a new appearance; the color of hair,
eyes, skin must be changed; and he must eat and drink, walk, sleep, think, and speak differently.
He must become another man almost as if he had changed his nature for another's."

"I understand," said Horace, interested; "but the theory is impossible. No one could do that
even if they desired."

"Tims would have desired it and accomplished it had I thought of suggesting it to him. Here
is what would have happened. He escapes from the prison, which is easy enough, and comes straight
to me. We never met but once. Therefore not a man in the world would have thought of looking
for him at my house. A week later he is transferred to the house of Judy Trainor, who has been
expecting a sick son from California, a boy who disappeared ten years previous and is probably
dead. I arrange her expectation, and the neighbors are invited to rejoice with her over the
finding of her son. He spends a month or two in the house recovering from his illness, and
when he appears in public he knows as much about the past of Tommy Trainor as Tommy ever knew.
He is welcomed by his old friends. They recognize him from his resemblance to his father, old
Micky Trainor. He slips into his position comfortably, and in five years the whole neighborhood
would go to court and swear Tims into a lunatic asylum if he ever tried to resume his own personality."

The two men set up a shout at this sound conclusion.

"After all, there are consequences as dark as the gallows," said Horace.

"For instance," said the priest with a wave of his hand, "sleeping under the eyes of these
painted ghosts."

"Poor Tim Hurley," said Horace, "little he thought he'd be a ghost to-night."

"He's not to be regretted," replied the other, "except for the heart that suffers by his absence.
He is with God. Death is the one moment of our career when we throw ourselves absolutely into
the arms of God."

The two were getting ready to slip between the sheets of the pompous colonial bed, when Horace
began to laugh softly to himself. He kept up the chuckling until they were lying side by side
in the darkened room.

"I am sure, I have a share in that chuckle," said Monsignor.

"Shades of my ancestors," murmured Horace, "forgive this insult to your pious memory--that
I should occupy one bed with an idolatrous priest."

"They have got over all that. In eternity there is no bigotry. But what a pity that two fine
boys like us should be kept apart by that awful spirit which prompts men to hate one another
for the love of God, and to lie like slaves for the pure love of truth."

"I am cured," said Horace, placing his hand on the Monsignor's arm. "I shall never again overlook
the human in a man. Let me thank you, Monsignor, for this opening of my eyes. I shall never
forget it. This night has been Arabian in its enchantment. I don't like the idea of to-morrow."

"No more do I. Life is tiresome in a way. For me it is an everlasting job of beating the air
with truth, because others beat it with lies. We can't help but rejoice when the time comes
to breathe the eternal airs, where nothing but truth can live."

Horace sighed, and fell asleep thinking of Sonia rather than the delights of eternity. The
priest slept as soundly. No protest against this charming and manly companionship stirred the
silence of the room. The ghosts of the portraits did not disturb the bold cricket of the window-sill.
He chirped proudly, pausing now and then to catch the breathing of the sleepers, and to interpret
their unconscious movings. The trained and spiritual ear might have caught the faint sighs
and velvet footsteps of long-departed souls, or interpreted them out of the sighing and whispering
of the leaves outside the window, and the tread of nervous mice in the fireplace. The dawn
came and lighted up the faces of the men, faces rising out of the heavy dark like a revelation
of another world; the veil of melancholy, which Sleep borrows from its brother Death, resting
on the head which Sonia loved, and deepening the shadows on the serious countenance of the
priest. They lay there like brothers of the same womb, and one might fancy the great mother
Eve stealing in between the two lights of dawn and day to kiss and bless her just-united children.

When they were parting after breakfast, Monsignor said gayly.

"If at any time you wish to disappear, command me."

"Thanks, but I would rather you had to do the act, that I might see you carry out your theory.
Where do you go now?"

"To tell Tim Hurley's mother he's dead, and thus break her heart," he replied sadly, "and then
to mend it by telling her how like a saint he died."

"Add to that," said Horace, with a sudden rush of tears, which for his life he could not explain,
"the comfort of a sure support from me for the rest of her life."

They clasped hands with feeling, and their eyes expressed the same thought and resolution to
meet again.

CHAPTER III.

THE ABYSSES OF PAIN.

Horace Endicott, though not a youth of deep sentiment, had capacities in that direction. Life
so far had been chiefly of the surface for him. Happiness had hidden the deep and dangerous
meanings of things. He was a child yet in his unconcern for the future, and the child, alone
of mortals, enjoys a foretaste of immortality, in his belief that happiness is everlasting.
The shadow of death clouding the pinched face of Tim Hurley was his first glimpse of the real.
He had not seen his father and mother die. The thought that followed, Sonia's beloved face
lying under that shadow, had terrified him. It was the uplifting of the veil of illusion that
enwraps childhood. The thought stayed his foot that night as he turned into the avenue leading
up to his own house, and he paused to consider this new dread.

The old colonial house greeted his eyes, solemn and sweet in the moonlight, with a few lights
of human comfort in its windows. He had never thought so before, but now it came straight to
his heart that this was his home, his old friend, steadfast and unchanging, which had welcomed
him into the world, and had never changed its look to him, never closed its doors against him;
all that remained of the dear, but almost forgotten past; the beautiful stage from which all
the ancient actors had made irrevocable exit. What beauty had graced it for a century back!
What honors its children had brought to it from councils of state and of war! What true human
worth had sanctified it! Last and the least of the splendid throng, he felt his own unworthiness
sadly; but he was young yet, only a boy, and he said to himself that Sonia had crowned the
glory of the old house with her beauty, her innocence, her devoted love. In making her its
mistress he had not wronged its former rulers, nor broken the traditions of beauty. He stood
a long time looking at the old place, wondering at the charm which it had so suddenly flung
upon him. Then he shook off the new and weird feeling and flew to embrace his Sonia of the
starry eyes.

Alas, poor boy! He stood for a moment on the threshold. He could hear the faint voices of servants,
the shutting of distant doors, and a hundred sweet sounds within; and around him lay the calmness
of the night, with a drowsy moon overhead lolling on lazy clouds. Nothing warned him that he
stood on the threshold of pain. No instinct hinted at the horror within. The house that sheltered
his holy mother and received her last breath, that covered for a few hours the body of his
heroic father, the house of so many honorable memories, had become the habitation of sinners,
whose shame was to be everlasting. He stole in on tiptoe, with love stirring his young pulses.
For thirty minutes there was no break in the silence. Then he came out as he entered, on tiptoe,
and no one knew that he had seen with his own eyes into the deeps of hell. For thirty minutes,
that seemed to have the power of as many centuries, he had looked on sin, shame, disgrace,
with what seemed to be the eyes of God; so did the horror shock eye and heart, yet leave him
sight and life to look again and again.

In that time he tasted with his own lips the bitterness which makes the most wretched death
sweeter by comparison than bread and honey to the hungry. At the end of it, when he stole away
a madman, he felt within his own soul the cracking and upheaving of some immensity, and saw
or felt the opening of abysses from which rose fearful exhalations of crime, shapes of corruption,
things without shape that provoked to rage, pain and madness. He was not without cunning, since
he closed the doors softly, stole away in the shadows of the house and the avenue, and escaped
to a distant wood unseen. From his withered face all feeling except horror had faded. Once
deep in the wood, he fell under the trees like an epileptic, turned on his face, and dug the
earth with hands and feet and face in convulsions of pain.

The frightened wood-life, sleeping or waking, fled from the great creature in its agony. In
the darkness he seemed some monster, which in dreadful silence, writhed and fought down a slow
road to death. He was hardly conscious of his own behavior, poor innocent, crushed by the sins
of others. He lived, and every moment was a dying. He gasped as with the last breath, yet each
breath came back with new torture. He shivered to the root of nature, like one struck fatally,
and the convulsion revived life and thought and horror. After long hours a dreadful sleep bound
his senses, and he lay still, face downward, arms outstretched, breathing like a child, a pitiful
sight. Death must indeed be a binding thing, that father and mother did not leave the grave
to soothe and strengthen their wretched son. He lay there on his face till dawn. The crowing
of the cock, which once warned Peter of his shame, waked him. He turned over, stared at the
branches above, sat up puzzled, and showed his face to the dim light. His arms gathered in
his knees, and he made an effort to recollect himself. But no one would have mistaken that
sorrowful, questioning face; it was Adam looking toward the lost Eden with his arms about the
dead body of his son. A desolate and unconscious face, wretched and vacant as a lone shore
strewn with wreckage.

He struggled to his feet after a time, wondering at his weakness. The effort roused and steadied
him, his mind cleared as he walked to the edge of the wood and stared at the old house, which
now in the mist of morning had the fixed, still, reproachful look of the dead. As if a spirit
had leaped upon him, memory brought back his personality and his grief together. Men told afterwards,
early laborers in the fields, of a cry from the Endicott woods, so strange and woful that their
hearts beat fast and their frightened ears strained for its repetition. Sonia heard it in her
adulterous dreams. It was not repeated. The very horror of it terrified the man who uttered
it. He stood by a tree trembling, for a double terror fell upon him, terror of her no less
than of himself. He staggered through the woods, and sought far-away places in the hills, where
none might see him. When the sun drifted in through dark boughs he cursed it, the emblem of
joy. The singing of the birds sounded to his ears like the shriek of madmen. When he could
think and reason somewhat, he called up the vision of Sonia to wonder over it. The childlike
eyes, the beautiful, lovable face, the modest glance, the innocent blushes--had nature such
masks for her vilest offspring? The mere animal senses should have recognized at the first
this deadly thing, as animals recognize their foes; and he had lived with the viper, believing
her the peer of his spotless mother. She was his wife! Even at that moment the passionate love
of yesterday stirred in his veins and moved him to deeper horror.

He doubted that he was Horace Endicott. Every one knew that boy to be the sanest of young men,
husband to the loveliest of women, a happy, careless, wealthy fellow, almost beside himself
with the joy of life. The madman who ran about the desolate wilds uttering strange and terrible
things, who was wrapped within and without in torments of flame, who refrained from crime and
death only because vengeance would thus be cheaply satisfied, could hardly be the boy of yesterday.
Was sin such a magician that in a day it could evolve out of merry Horace and innocent Sonia
two such wretches? The wretch Sonia had proved her capacity for evil; the wretch Horace felt
his capabilities for crime and rejoiced in them. He must live to punish. A sudden fear came
upon him that his grief and rage might bring death or madness, and leave him incapable of vengeance.
They would wish nothing better. No, he must live, and think rationally, and not give way. But
the mind worked on in spite of the will. It sat like Penelope over the loom, weaving terrible
fancies in blood and flame! the days that had been, the days that were passing; the scenes
of love and marriage; the old house and its latest sinners; and the days that were to come,
crimson-dyed, shameful; the dreadful loom worked as if by enchantment, scene following scene,
the web endless, and the woven stuff flying into the sky like smoke from a flying engine, darkening
all the blue.

The days and nights passed while he wandered about in the open air. Hunger assailed him, distances
wearied him, he did not sleep; but these hardships rather cooled the inward fire, and did not
harm him. One day he came to a pool, clear as a spring to its sandy bottom, embowered in trees,
except on one side where the sun shone. He took off his clothes and plunged in. The waters
closed over him sweet and cool as the embrace of death. The loom ceased its working a while,
and the thought rose up, is vengeance worth the trouble? He sank to the sandy bed, and oh,
it was restful! A grip on a root held him there, and a song of his boyhood soothed his ears
until it died away in heavenly music, far off, enticing, welcoming him to happier shores. He
had found all at once forgetfulness and happiness, and he would remain. Then his grip loosened,
and he came to the surface, swimming mechanically about, debating with himself another descent
into the enchanted region beneath.

Some happy change had touched him. He felt the velvety waters grasp his body and rejoiced in
it; the little waves which he sent to the reedy bank made him smile with their huddling and
back-rushing and laughing; he held up his arm as he swam to see the sun flash through the drops
of water from his hand. What a sweet bed of death! No hard-eyed nurses and physicians with
their array of bottles, no hypocrites snuffling sympathy while dreaming of fat legacies, no
pious mummeries, only the innocent things direct from the hand of God, unstained by human sin
and training, trees and bushes and flowers, the tender living things about, the voiceless and
passionless music of lonely nature, the hearty sun, and the maternal embrace of the sweet waters.
It was dying as the wild animals die, without ceremony; as the flowers die, a gentle weakening
of the stem, a rush of perfume to the soft earth, and the caressing winds to do the rest. Yes,
down to the bottom again! Who would have looked for so pleasant a door to death in that lonely
and lovely pool!

He slipped his foot under the root so that it would hold him if he struggled, put his arms
under his head like one about to sleep, and yielded his senses to that far-off, divine music,
enticing, welcoming.... It ceased, but not until he had forgotten all his sorrows and was speeding
toward death. Sorrow rescued sorrow, and gave him back to the torturers. The old woman who
passed by the pond that morning gathering flowers, and smiling as if she felt the delight of
a child--the smile of a child on the mask of grief-worn age--saw his clothes and then his body
floating upward helpless from the bottom. She seized his arm, and pulled him up on the low
bank. He gasped a little and was able to thank her.

"If I hadn't come along just then," she said placidly, as she covered him decently with his
coat, "you'd have been drownded. Took a cramp, I reckon?"

"All I remember is taking a swim and sinking, mother. I am very much obliged to you, and can
get along very well, I think."

"If you want any help, just say so," she answered. "When you get dressed my house is a mile
up the road, and the road is a mile from here. I can give you a cup of tea or warm milk, and
welcome."

"I'll go after a while," said he, "and then I'll be able to thank you still better for a very
great service, mother."

She smiled at the affectionate title, and went her way. He became weak all at once, and for
a while could not dress. The long bath had soothed his mind, and now distressed nature could
make her wants known. Hunger, soreness of body, drowsiness, attacked him together. He found
it pleasant to lie there and look at the sun, and feel too happy to curse it as before. The
loom had done working, Penelope was asleep. The door seemed forever shut on the woman known
as Sonia, who had tormented him long ago. The dead should trouble no one living. He was utterly
weary, sore in every spot, crushed by torment as poor Tim Hurley had been broken by his engine.
This recollection, and his lying beside the pool as Tim lay beside the running river, recalled
the Monsignor and the holy oils. As he fell asleep the fancy struck him that his need at that
moment was the holy oils; some balm for sick eyes and ears, for tired hands and soiled feet,
like his mother's kisses long ago, that would soothe the aching, and steal from the limbs into
the heart afterwards; a heavenly dew that would aid sleep in restoring the stiffened sinews
and distracted nerves. The old woman came back to him later, and found him in his sleep of
exhaustion. Like a mother, she pillowed his head, covered him with his clothes, and her own
shawl, and made sure that his rest would be safe and comfortable. She studied the noble young
head, and smoothed it tenderly. The pitiful face, a terrible face for those who could read,
so bitterly had grief written age on the curved dimpled surface of youth, stirred some convulsion
in her, for she threw up her arms in despair as she walked away homeward, and wild sobs choked
her for minutes.

