The explanation, as far as there is any, (and perhaps such explanations, as Hume says of another
matter, only push ignorance a stage farther back), seems to me to lie in what I can only call
the Gallicanism of Jeffrey's mind and character. As Horace Walpole has been pronounced the
most French of Englishmen, so may Francis Jeffrey be pronounced the most French of Scotchmen.
The reader of his letters, no less than the reader of his essays, constantly comes across the
most curious and multiform instances of this Frenchness. The early priggishness is French;
the effusive domestic affection is French; the antipathy to dogmatic theology, combined with
general recognition of the Supreme Being, is French; the talk (I had almost said the chatter)
about virtue and sympathy, and so forth, is French; the Whig recognition of the rights of man,
joined to a kind of bureaucratical distrust and terror of the common people (a combination
almost unknown in England), is French. Everybody remembers the ingenious argument in Peter
Simple that the French were quite as brave as the English, indeed more so, but that they were
extraordinarily ticklish. Jeffrey, we have seen, was very far from being a coward, but he was
very ticklish indeed. His private letters throw the most curious light possible on the secret,
as far as he was concerned, of the earlier Whig opposition to the war, and of the later Whig
advocacy of reform. Jeffrey by no means thought the cause of the Revolution divine, like the
Friends of Liberty, or admired Napoleon like Hazlitt, or believed in the inherent right of
Manchester and Birmingham to representation like the zealots of 1830. But he was always dreadfully
afraid of invasion in the first place, and of popular insurrection in the second; and he wanted
peace and reform to calm his fears. As a young man he was, with a lack of confidence in his
countrymen probably unparalleled in a Scotchman, sure that a French corporal's guard might
march from end to end of Scotland, and a French privateer's boat's crew carry off "the fattest
cattle and the fairest women" (these are his very words) "of any Scotch seaboard county." The
famous, or infamous, Cevallos article--an ungenerous and pusillanimous attack on the Spanish
patriots, which practically founded the Quarterly Review, by finally disgusting all Tories
and many Whigs with the Edinburgh--was, it seems, prompted merely by the conviction that the
Spanish cause was hopeless, and that maintaining it, or assisting it, must lead to mere useless
bloodshed. He felt profoundly the crime of Napoleon's rule; but he thought Napoleon unconquerable,
and so did his best to prevent him being conquered. He was sure that the multitude would revolt
if reform was not granted; and he was, therefore, eager for reform. Later, he got into his
head the oddest crotchet of all his life, which was that a Conservative government, with a
sort of approval from the people generally, and especially from the English peasantry, would
scheme for a coup d'état, and (his own words again) "make mincemeat of their opponents in a
single year." He may be said almost to have left the world in a state of despair over the probable
results of the Revolutions of 1848-49; and it is impossible to guess what would have happened
to him if he had survived to witness the Second of December. Never was there such a case, at
least among Englishmen, of timorous pugnacity and plucky pessimism. But it would be by no means
difficult to parallel the temperament in France; and, indeed, the comparative frequency of
it there, may be thought to be no small cause of the political and military disasters of the
country.

