Many of the counties are divided between two, or even three, dialects; I somewhat simplify
matters by omitting to mention some of them, so as to give merely a general idea of the chief
dialectal localities. For fuller information, see the Dialect Grammar.

I. The dialects of Scotland may be subdivided into nine groups:

1. Shetland and Orkney.  2. Caithness.  3. Nairn, Elgin, Banff, Aberdeen.  4. E. Forfar, Kincardine.
5. W. Forfar, most of Perth, parts of Fife and Stirling.  6. S. Ayr, W. Dumfries, Kirkcudbright,
Wigton.  7. S.E. Argyle, N. Ayr, Renfrew, Lanark.  8. Kinross, Clackmannan, Linlithgow, Edinburgh,
Haddington, Berwick, Peebles. 9. E. Dumfries, Selkirk, Roxburgh.

II. Ireland.--Ulster, Dublin, Wexford.

III. England and Wales, in five divisions: (a) Northern; (b) Midland; (c) Eastern; (d) Western;
(e) Southern.

(a) Three groups:  1. Northumberland, N. Durham.  2. S. Durham; most of Cumberland, Westmoreland,
N. Lancashire, hilly parts of W. Riding of Yorkshire.  3. N. and E. Ridings of Yorkshire.

(b) Ten groups:  1. Lincolnshire.  2. S.E. Lancashire, N.E. Cheshire, N.W. Derby.  3. S.W.
Lancashire, S. of the Ribble. 4. Mid Lancashire, Isle of Man.  5. S. Yorkshire; to the S.W.
of the Wharfe.  6. Most of Cheshire, N. Staffordshire.  7. Most of Derby.  8. Nottingham. 
9. Flint, Denbigh.  10. E. Shropshire, S. Stafford, most of Warwickshire, S. Derby, Leicestershire.

(c) Five groups:  1. Cambridge, Rutland, N.E. Northampton. 2. Most of Essex and Hertford, Huntingdon,
Bedford, Mid Northampton. 3. Norfolk and Suffolk.  4. Most of Buckingham.  5. Middlesex, S.E.
Buckingham, S. Hertford, S.W. Essex.

N.B. S.W. Northampton is Southern; see (e), 4.

(d) Two groups:  1. W. and S. Shropshire (W. of Severn).  2. Hereford (except E.), Radnor,
E. Brecknock.

(e) Ten groups.  1. Parts of Pembroke and Glamorgan.  2. Wiltshire, Dorset, N. and E. Somerset,
most of Gloucester, S.W. Devon.  3. Most of Hampshire, Isle of Wight, most of Berkshire, S.
Surrey, W. Sussex. 4. N. Gloucester, E. Hereford, Worcester, S. Warwick, N. Oxford, S.W. Northampton.
5. Most of Oxford.  6. N. Surrey, N.W. Kent. 7. Most of Kent, E. Sussex.  8. W. Somerset, N.E.
Devon.  9. Most of Devon, E. Cornwall.  10. W. Cornwall.

CHAPTER XII

A FEW SPECIMENS

There is a great wealth of modern dialect literature, as indicated by the lists in the E.D.D.
Some of these dialect books are poor and inaccurate, and they are frequently spelt according
to no intelligible phonetic principles. Yet it not unfrequently happens, as in the works of
Sir Walter Scott and Charles Dickens, that the dialectal scraps indicate the pronunciation
with tolerable fidelity, which is more than can be said of such portions of their works as
are given in the normal spelling. It is curious to notice that writers in dialect are usually,
from a phonetic point of view, more careful and consistent in their modes of indicating sounds
than are the rest of us. Sometimes their spelling is, accordingly, very good. Those who are
interested in this subject may follow up this hint with advantage.

It is impossible to mention even a tithe of the names of our better dialect writers. In Scotland
alone there is a large number, some of the more recent bearing such well-known names as those
of R.L. Stevenson, George Macdonald (Aberdeen), J.M. Barrie (Forfarshire), and S.R. Crockett
(Galloway). Dean Ramsay's humorous Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character must not be
passed over. For Ireland we have William Carleton's Traits and Stories of the Irish Peasantry,
and the novels by Lever and Lover. Cumberland has its delightful stories of Joe and the Geologist,
and Bobby Banks' Bodderment. Cornwall has its Tales, by J.T. Tregellas. Devon can boast of
R.D. Blackmore, Dorset of Hardy and Barnes, and Lincoln of Tennyson. The literature of Lancashire
is vast; it suffices to mention John Collier (otherwise Tim Bobbin), author of Tummus and Meary,
Ben Brierley, John Byrom, J.P. Morris, author of T' Lebby Beck Dobby, and Edwin Waugh, prose
author and poet. Giles's Trip to London, and the other sketches by the same author, are highly
characteristic of Norfolk. Northamptonshire has its poet, John Clare; and Suffolk can boast
of Robert Bloomfield. According to her own statement, printed in the Preface (p. viii) to the
E.D.S. Bibliographical List, George Eliot, when writing Adam Bede, had in mind "the talk of
N. Staffordshire and the neighbouring part of Derbyshire"; whilst, in Silas Marner, "the district
imagined is in N. Warwickshire." Southey wrote T' Terrible Knitters e' Dent in the Westmoreland
dialect. Yorkshire, like Lancashire, has a large literature, to which the E.D.D. Booklist can
alone do justice.

SCOTTISH (Group 3): ABERDEEN.

The following extract is from Chapter XVIII of Johnny Gibb of Gushetneuk, by W. Alexander,
LL.D., fifteenth edition, Edinburgh, 1908. One special peculiarity of the dialect is the use
of f for wh, as in fat, what, fan, when. The extract describes how the speaker and his friends
went to hear a bellman make a proclamation about the appointment of a new minister to a church.

  It's a vera stiff brae, an' ere we wan up to the kirk, it was gyaun
  upon eleyven o'clock. "Hooever," says the mannie, "we'll be in braw
  time; it's twal ere the sattlement begin, an' I'se warran they sanna
  apen the kirk-doors till's till than." So we tak's a luik roun' for
  ony kent fowk. They war stannin' aboot a'gate roun' aboot the kirk,
  in scores an' hunners, fowk fae a' the pairis'es roun' aboot, an'
  some fae hyne awa' as far doon's Marnoch o' the tae han' an' Kintore
  o' the tither, aw believe; some war stampin' their feet an' slappin'
  their airms like the yauws o' a win'mill to keep them a-heat;
  puckles wus sittin' o' the kirk-yard dyke, smokin' an' gyaun on wi'
  a' kin' o' orra jaw aboot the minaisters, an' aye mair gedderin' in
  aboot--it was thocht there wus weel on to twa thoosan' there ere a'
  was deen. An' aye a bit fudder was comin' up fae the manse aboot fat
  the Presbytery was deein--they war chaumer't there, ye see, wi' the
  lawvyers an' so on. "Nyod, they maun be sattlin' 'im i' the manse,"
  says ane, "we'll need a' gae doon an' see gin we can win in." "Na,
  na," says anither, "a bit mair bather aboot thair dissents an'
  appales bein' ta'en; muckle need they care, wi' sic a Presbytery,
  fat they try. But here's Johnny Florence, the bellman, at the lang
  length, I'se be at the boddom o' fat they're at noo." And wi' that
  he pints till a carlie comin' across the green, wi' a bit paper in's
  han', an' a gryte squad o' them 't hed been hingin' aboot the
  manse-door at's tail. "Oo, it's Johnny gyaun to read the edick,"
  cries a gey stoot chap, an' twa three o' them gya a roar o' a
  lauch.... "Speek oot, min!" cries ane. "I think ye mith pronunce
  some better nor that, Johnny," says anither; an' they interrupit
  'im fan he was tryin' to read wi' a' kin' of haivers, takin' the
  words oot o's mou, an' makin' the uncoest styte o't 't cud be.

    Notes.--brae, hill; wan up, got up; gyaun upon,
    going close upon; braw, excellent; twal, twelve;
    sattlement, decision; I'se, I will (lit. I shall);
    sanna, will not; till's, for us; kent fowk, known
    people, acquaintances; a'gate, in all ways; hunners,
    hundreds; fae, from; hyne awa', hence away, as far
    off; the tae, the one; the tither, the other; yauws,
    sails; puckles, numbers, many; dyke, stone fence;
    orra jaw, various loud talk; mair gedderin', more
    gathering; on to, near; deen, done; bit fudder,
    bit of a rumour (lit. gust of wind); fae, from; fat,
    what; deein, doing; chaumer't, chambered, shut up;
    nyod, a disguised oath; we'll need, we must; gin,
    if; win in, get in: bather, bother; at the lang
    length, at last; carlie, churl; gryte squad, great
    crowd; gey stoot, rather stout; twa three, two or
    three; gya, gave; mith, might; nor that, than that;
    haivers, foolish talk; mou, mouth; uncoest, most
    uncouth, strangest; styte, nonsense.

SCOTTISH (Group 7): AYRSHIRE.

The following lines are quoted from a well-known poem by Robert Burns (1759-1796).

       The Twa Dogs (Cæsar and Luath).

Cæs.
         I see how folk live that hae riches;
       But surely poor folk maun be wretches."
Lu.

    Notes.--wae, sorrowful; maun thole, must endure, must
    put up with; factor's snash, agent's abuse; poind,
    seize upon, sequester; gear, property; hae, have;
    no sae, not so; wad, would; poortith, poverty;
    grushie, of thriving growth, well-grown; weans,
    children; win's, winds; nappy, foaming ale; reeks,
    smokes; ream, cream; luntin', smoking, emitting smoke;
    sneeshin-mill, snuff box; cantie, merry; crackin',
    conversing; crouse, with good spirits; ranting,
    running noisily; fain, glad; gloamin', twilight;
    bum-clock, beetle (that booms); kye, cows; rowtin',
    lowing; loan, milking-place; lugs, ears.

SCOTTISH (Group 8): EDINBURGH.

The following stanzas are from The Farmer's Ingle, a poem by Robert Fergusson (1750-1774),
a native of Edinburgh.

    Notes.--Ingle, chimney-corner. Gloming, twilight;
    keeks, peeps; ca's, drives (lit. calls); owsen,
    oxen; byre, cow-house; sair dung, sorely tired;
    steeks, shuts; dighting, winnowing; bangs fu'
    leal, defeats right well; gars, makes; -tappit,
    crested; dowie, melancholy; fley'd, frighted;
    poortith, poverty.

    Divets, turfs; theekit, thatched; weet, wet;
    sods, peats, and heath'ry trufs, various turf fuels;
    chimley, fire-place; gar, make; smeek, smoke;
    lift, sky; halland, partition forming a screen;
    een, eyes; ilka, each; cosh, cosy; lo'es, loves.

    Kens, knows; meltith, meal-tide, meal; synd,
    wash-down, draught; nappy, heady, strong; downa,
    cannot; bannocks, cakes; girdle, hot-plate; reeks,
    smokes; bowie, cask, beer-barrel; reams, foams;
    readied kail, (dish of) cooked greens; by, beside;
    hauds... het, keeps... hot; riggin, roof over the open
    hearth; whilk, which.

    Grien, yearn, long; hafflins steeks, half shuts;
    cruizy, oil-lamp; bleer, bedim (the sight); restit
    ingle, made up fire; dow, can; tackman, lease-holder,
    farmer; cod, pillow; drumly pow, confused head.

NORTHERN (ENGLAND); Group 2: WESTMORELAND.

The following extract is from a remarkable tract entitled A Bran New Wark, by William De Worfat;
Kendal, 1785. The author was the Rev. William Hutton, Rector of Beetham in Westmoreland, 1762-1811,
and head of a family seated at Overthwaite (here called Worfat) in that parish. It was edited
by me for the E.D.S. in 1879.

  Last Saturday sennet, abaut seun in the evening (twas lownd and
  fraaze hard) the stars twinkled, and the setting moon cast
  gigantic shadows. I was stalking hameward across Blackwater-mosses,
  and whistling as I tramp'd for want of thought, when a noise struck
  my ear, like the crumpling of frosty murgeon; it made me stop short,
  and I thought I saw a strange form before me: it vanished behint a
  windraw; and again thare was nought in view but dreary dykes, and
  dusky ling. An awful silence reigned araund; this was sean brokken
  by a skirling hullet; sure nivver did hullet, herrensue, or miredrum,
  mak sic a noise before. Your minister [himself] was freetned, the
  hairs of his head stood an end, his blead storkened, and the haggard
  creature moving slawly nearer, the mirkiness of the neet shew'd her
  as big again as she was... She stoup'd and drop'd a poak, and thus
  began with a whining tone. "Deary me! deary me! forgive me, good Sir,
  but this yance, I'll steal naa maar. This seek is elding to keep us
  fra starving!"... [The author visits the poor woman's cottage.]
  She sat on a three-legg'd steal, and a dim coal smook'd within the
  rim of a brandreth, oor which a seety rattencreak hung dangling fra
  a black randletree. The walls were plaister'd with dirt, and a stee,
  with hardly a rung, was rear'd into a loft. Araund the woman her
  lile ans sprawl'd on the hearth, some whiting speals, some
  snottering and crying, and ya ruddy-cheek'd lad threw on a bullen
  to make a loww, for its mother to find her loup. By this sweal I
  beheld this family's poverty.

    Notes.--Sennet, seven nights, week; seun, seven;
    lownd, still, calm; murgeon, rubbish earth cut up and
    thrown aside in order to get peat; windraw, heap of dug
    earth; ling, kind of heather; skirling hullet, shrieking
    owlet; herrensue, young heron; miredrum, bittern; blead
    storkened, blood congealed; neet, night; poak, bag;
    yance, once; seck, sack, i.e. contents of this sack;
    elding, fuel; steal, stool; brandreth, iron frame
    over the fire; seaty, sooty; rattencreak, potcrook,
    pothook; randletree, a beam from which the pothook hangs;
    stee, ladder; loft, upper room; lile ans, little
    ones; whiting speals, whittling small sticks; snottering,
    sobbing; ya, one; bullen, hempstalk; loww, flame;
    loup, loop, stitch in knitting; sweal, blaze.

MIDLAND (Group I): LINCOLN.

I here give a few quotations from the Glossary of Words used in the Wapentakes of Manley and
Corringham, Lincolnshire, by E. Peacock, F.S.A.; 2nd ed., E.D.S., 1889. The illustrative sentences
are very characteristic.

  Beal, to bellow.--Th' bairn beäled oot that bad, I was clëan
  scar'd, but it was at noht bud a battle-twig 'at hed crohlëd up'n
  hisairm. (Battle-twig, earwig; airm, arm.)

  Cart, to get into, to get into a bad temper.--Na, noo, thoo
  neädn't get into th' cart, for I weän't draw thee.

  Cauf, a calf, silly fellow.--A gentleman was enlarging to a
  Winterton lad on the virtues of Spanish juice [liquorice water].
  "Ah,then, ye'll ha' been to th' mines, wheäre thaay gets it," the
  boy exclaimed; whereupon the mother broke in with--"A greät cauf!
  Duz he think 'at thaay dig it oot o' th' grund, saäme as thaay do
  sugar?"

  Chess, a tier.--I've been tell'd that e' plaaces wheäre thaay
  graw silk-worms, thaay keäps 'em on traays, chess aboon chess,
  like cheney i' a cupboard. (E' in; cheney, china.)

  Clammer, to climb.--Oor Uriah's clammered into th' parson's
  cherry-tree, muther, an' he is swalla'in on 'em aboon a bit.
  I shouldn't ha tell'd ye nobbut he weänt chuck me ony doon.
  (Nobbut, only.)

  Cottoner, something very striking.--Th' bairn hed been e'
  mischief all daay thrif; at last, when I was sidin' awaay th'
  teä-things, what duz he do but tum'le i'to th' well. So, says I,
  Well, this is a cottoner; we shall hev to send for Mr Iveson
  (the coroner) noo, I reckon. (Thrif, through; sidin' awaay,
  putting away.)

  Ducks.--A girl said to the author, of a woman with whom she had
  been living for a short time as servant, "I'd raather be nibbled
  to deäd wi' ducks then live with Miss P. She's alus a natterin'."
  (Deäd, death; alus, always; natterin', nagging.)

  Good mind, strong intention.--She said she'd a good mind to hing
  her-sen, soä I ax'd if I mud send for Mr Holgate (the coroner), to
  be ready like. (Hing, hang; mud, might.)

  Jaup, senseless talk.--Ho'd the jaup wi' th{(e}; dos't ta want
  ivery body to knaw how soft thoo is? (Ho'd, hold; soft,
  foolish.)

MIDLAND (Group 2): S.E. LANCASHIRE.

The following poem is from Poems and Songs by Edwin Waugh; 3rd ed., London, 1870.

    Owd Pinder.

  Owd Pinder were a rackless foo,
    An' spent his days i' spreein';
  At th' end ov every drinkin-do,
    He're sure to crack o' deein';
  "Go, sell my rags, an' sell my shoon,
    Aw's never live to trail 'em;
  My ballis-pipes are eawt o' tune,
    An' th' wynt begins to fail 'em!

  Eawr Matty's very fresh an' yung;--
    'T would any mon bewilder;--
  Hoo'll wed again afore it's lung,
    For th' lass is fond o' childer;
  My bit o' brass'll fly--yo'n see--
    When th' coffin-lid has screen'd me--
  It gwos again my pluck to dee,
    An' lev her wick beheend me.

  Come, Matty, come, an' cool my yed;
    Aw'm finish'd, to my thinkin';"
  Hoo happed him nicely up, an' said,
    "Thae'st brought it on wi' drinkin'."--
  "Nay, nay," said he, "my fuddle's done,
    We're partin' tone fro tother;
  So promise me that, when aw'm gwon,
    Thea'll never wed another!"

  "Th' owd tale," said hoo, an' laft her stoo;
    "It's rayly past believin';
  Thee think o' th' world thea'rt goin' to,
    An' lev this world to th' livin';
  What use to me can deeod folk be?
    Thae's kilt thisel' wi' spreein";
  An' iv that's o' thae wants wi' me,
    Get forrud wi' thi deein'!"

    Notes.--Owd, old; rackless foo, reckless fool; spreein',
    merry-making, drinking; -do, bout; He're, he would be;
    crack o' deein' , hint at dying; Aw's, I shall; trail,
    walk in; ballis-pipes, bellows-pipes, lungs; eawt, out;
    wynt, wind.

    Eawr, our, my; Hoo, she; brass, money; yo'n, you will;
    lev, leave; wick, quick, i.e. alive.

    Yed, head; happed, covered; fuddle, drinking-bout;
    tone fro tother, the one from the other.

    Stoo, stool; Thee think, do thou think; deeod, dead;
    o', all; get forrud, get on, go on.

MIDLAND (Group 5): SHEFFIELD.

The following extract is from A. Bywater's Sheffield Dialect, 3rd ed, 1877; as quoted in S.O.
Addy's Sheffield Glossary, E.D.S., 1888, p. xv.

  Jerra Flatback. Hah, they'n better toimes on't nah, booath e
  heitin and clooas; we'n had menni a mess a nettle porridge an brawls
  on a Sunda mo'nin, for us brekfast... Samma, dusta remember hah
  menni names we had for sahwer wotcake?

  Oud Samma Squarejoint. O kno'n't, lad; bur o think we'd foive or
  six. Let's see: Slammak wer won, an' Flat-dick wer anuther; an't
  tuther wor--a dear, mo memra fails ma--Flannel an' Jonta;
  an-an-an-an--bless me, wot a thing it is tubbe oud, mo memra gers
  war for ware, bur o kno heah's anuther; o'st think on enah.--
  A, Jerra, heah's menni a thahsand dogs nah days, at's better dun
  too nor we wor then; an them were t'golden days a Hallamshoir, they
  sen. An they happen wor, for't mesters. Hofe at prentis lads e them
  days wor lether'd whoile ther skin wor skoi-blue, and clam'd whoile
  ther booans wer bare, an work'd whoile they wor as knock-kneed as
  oud Nobbletistocks. Thah nivver sees nooa knock-kneed cutlers nah:
  nou, not sooa; they'n better mesters nah, an they'n better sooat a
  wark anole. They dooant mezher em we a stick, as oud Natta Hall did.
  But for all that, we'd none a yer wirligig polishin; nor Tom Dockin
  scales, wit bousters comin off; nor yer sham stag, nor sham revvits,
  an sich loik. T' noives wor better made then, Jerra.

  Jerra: Hah, they wor better made; they made t' noives for yuse
  then, but they mayn em to sell nah.

    Notes.--Observe 'n for han (plural), have; on't nah,
    of it now; e heitin, in eating; mess a, dish of, meal of;
    brawis, brose, porridge; hah, how; sahwer wotcake,
    leavened oatcake; bur o, but I; mo, my; ma, me;
    tubbe oud, to be old; gers, gets; war for ware,
    worse for wear; o'st, I shall; think on, remember;
    enah, presently; nah days, nowadays; at's, that are;
    dun too, treated; nor we, than we; Hallamshoir,
    Hallamshire, the district including Sheffield and the
    neighbourhood; sen, say; happen, perhaps; for't,
    for the; hofe at, half of the; e them, in those;
    lether'd, beaten; whoile, till; clam'd (for clamm'd),
    starved; sooat a, sort of; anole, and all; we, with;
    wirligig, machine; Tom Dockin scales, scales cut out of
    thin rolled iron instead of being forged; bousters, bolsters
    (a bolster is a lump of metal between the tang and the blade
    of a knife); stag, stag-horn handle (?); mayn, pl. make.

MIDLAND (Group 6): CHESHIRE.

The following extract is from "Betty Bresskittle's Pattens, or Sanshum Fair," by J.C. Clough;
printed with Holland's Cheshire Glossary, E.D.S. (1886), p. 466. Sanshum or Sanjem Fair is
a fair held at Altrincham on St James's Day.

  Jud sprung upo' th' stage leet as a buck an' bowd as a dandycock,
  an' th' mon what were playingk th' drum (only it wer'nt a gradely
  drum) gen him a pair o' gloves. Jud began a-sparringk, an' th'
  foaks shaouted, "Hooray! Go it, owd Jud! Tha'rt a gradely Cheshire
  mon!"

  Th' black felly next gen Jud a wee bit o' a bang i' th' reet ee, an
  Jud git as weild as weild, an hit reet aht, but some hah he couldna
  git a gradely bang at th' black mon. At-aftur two or three minutes
  th' black felly knocked Jud dahn, an t'other chap coom and picked
  him up, an' touch'd Jud's faace wi' th' spunge everywheer wheer he'd
  getten a bang, but th' spunge had getten a gurt lot o' red ruddle on
  it, so that it made gurt red blotches upo' Jud's faace wheer it
  touched it; an th' foaks shaouted and shaouted, "Hooray, Jud! Owd
  mon! at em agen!" An Jud let floy a good un, an th' mon wi' th'
  spunge had to pick th' blackeymoor up this toime an put th' ruddle
  upo' his faace just at-under th'ee.

  "Hooray, Jud! hooray, owd mon!" shaouted Jock Carter o' Runjer;
  "tha'rt game, if tha'rt owd!"

  Just at that vary minit Jud's weife, bad as hoo were wi' th'
  rheumatic, pushed her rooäd through th' foaks, and stood i' th'
  frunt o' th' show.

  "Go it agen, Jud! here's th' weife coom t'see hah gam tha art!"
  shaouted Jonas.

  Jud turn'd rahnd an gurned at th' frunt o' th' show wi' his faace
  aw ruddle.

  "Tha girt soo! I'll baste thi when aw get thi hwom, that aw will!"
  shaouted Betty Bresskittle; "aw wunder tha artna ashamed o' thisen,
  to stond theer a-feightingk th' deevil hissel!"

    Notes.--Jud, for George; leet, light; bowd, bold;
    dandycock, Bantam cock; gradely, proper; gen, gave; owd,
    old; reet ee, right eye; git, got; as weild as weild, as
    wild as could be; aht, out; at-aftur, after; gurt, great;
    em, him; floy, fly; Runjer, Ringway; game (also gam),
    full of pluck; hoo, she; rooad, road, way; gurned,
    grinned; soo, sow (term of abuse); hwom, home; thisen,
    thyself.

EASTERN (Group 2): N. ESSEX.

The following extract is from John Noakes and Mary Styles, by Charles Clark, of Great Totham;
London, 1839. Reprinted for the E.D.S., 1895. As Great Totham is to the North of Maldon, I
take this specimen to belong to Prof. Wright's "Division 2" rather than to the S.W. Essex of
"Division 5." The use of w for initial v occurs frequently, as in werry, very, etc.

  At Tottum's Cock-a-Bevis Hill,
    A sput surpass'd by few,
  Where toddlers ollis haut to eye
    The proper pritty wiew,

  Where people crake so ov the place,
    Leas-ways, so I've hard say;
  An' frum its top yow, sarteny,
    Can see a monsus way.

  But no sense ov a place, some think,
    Is this here hill so high,--
  'Cos there, full oft, 'tis nation coad,
    But that don't argufy.

  As sum'dy, 'haps, when nigh the sput,
    May ha' a wish to see 't,--
  From Mauldon toun to Keldon 'tis,
    An' 'gin a four-releet.

  At Cock-a Bevis Hill, too, the
    Wiseacres show a tree
  Which if you clamber up, besure,
    A precious way yow see.

  I dorn't think I cud clime it now,
    Aldoe I uster cud;
  I shudn't warsley loike to troy,
    For gulch cum down I shud.

  My head 'ood swim,--I 'oodn't do't
    Nut even fur a guinea;
  A naarbour ax'd me, t'other day;
    "Naa, naa," says I, "nut quinny."

    Notes.--Sput, spot; toddlers, walkers; ollis, always;
    haut, halt; wiew, view. Crake, boast; leas(t)ways, at
    least; sarteny, certainly; monsus, monstrous, very long.

    No sense ov a, poor, bad; coad, cold; argufy, prove
    (anything).

    Sum'dy, somebody; from M., between Maldon and Kelvedon;
    'gin, against, near; four-releet (originally four-e leet,
    lit. "ways of four," four-e being the genitive plural, hence)
    meeting of four roads.

    Dorn't, don't; aldoe, although; uster cud (for us'd to
    could), used to be able; warsley, vastly, much; loike,
    like; gulch, heavily, with a bang.

    'Ood, would; nut, not; ax'd, asked; naa, no; nut
    quinny, not quite, not at all.

EASTERN (Group 3): NORFOLK.

The following extract from "A Norfolk Dialogue" is from a work entitled Erratics by a Sailor,
printed anonymously at London in 1800, and written by the Rev. Joshua Larwood, rector of Swanton
Morley, near East Dereham. Most of the words are quite familiar to me, as I was curate of East
Dereham in 1861-2, and heard the dialect daily. The whole dialogue was reprinted in Nine Specimens
of English Dialects; E.D.S., 1895.

The Dialogue was accompanied by "a translation," as here reprinted. It renders a glossary needless.

  Original Vulgar Norfolk.
  Narbor Rabbin and Narbor Tibby.

      Translation.
      Neighbour Robin and Neighbour Stephen.

  R. Tibby, d'ye know how the knacker's mawther Nutty du?

      R. Stephen, do you know how the collar-maker's daughter
      Ursula is?

  T. Why, i' facks, Rabbin, she's nation cothy; by Goms, she is so
  snasty that I think she is will-led.

      S. Why, in fact, Robin, she is extremely sick; by (obsolete),
      she is so snarlish, that I think she's out of her mind.

  R. She's a fate mawther, but ollas in dibles wi' the knacker and
  thackster; she is ollas a-ating o' thapes and dodmans. The fogger sa,
  she ha the black sap; but the grosher sa, she have an ill dent.

      R. She's a clever girl, but always in troubles with the
      collar-maker and thatcher; she is always eating gooseberries
      and snails. The man at the chandler's shop says she has a
      consumption: but the grocer says she's out of her senses.

  T. Why, ah! tother da she fared stounded: she pluck'd the pur
  from the back-stock, and copped it agin the balk of the douw-pollar,
  and barnt it; and then she hulled [it] at the thackster, and hart
  his weeson, and huckle-bone. There was northing but cadders in the
  douw-pollar, and no douws: and so, arter she had barnt the balk, and
  the door-stall, and the plancher, she run into the par-yard, thru
  the pytle, and then swounded behinn'd a sight o' gotches o' beergood.

      S. Why, aye! the other day she appeared struck mad: she
      snatched the poker from the back of the stove, and flung it
      against the beam of the pigeon-house, and burnt it; and then she
      throwed it at the thatcher, and hurt his throat and hip-bone.
      There were no pigeons in the pigeon-house, and nothing but
      jack-daws; and so, after she had burned the beam, and the
      door-frame and the floor, she ran into the cowyard, through the
      small field, and fainted behind several pitchers of yeast.

  R. Ah, the shummaker told me o' that rum rig; and his nevvey sa,
  that the beer-good was fystey; and that Nutty was so swelter'd, that
  she ha got a pain in spade-bones. The bladethacker wou'd ha gin har
  some doctor's gear in a beaker; but he sa she'll niver moize agin.

      R. Aye, the shoemaker told me of that comical trick; and his
      nephew says, that the yeast was musty; and that Ursula [was so]
      smothered, that she has got a pain in her bones. The thatcher
      would have given her some doctor's medicine in a tumbler; but he
      says, she will never recover.

    Notes.--Pronounce du like E. dew. Snasty, pron. snaisty,
    cross. Fate, fait (cf. E. feat), suitable, clever.
    Mawther, a young girl; Norw. moder. Dibles: the i is
    long. Sa, says; ha, have, has; note the absence of final
    s in the third person singular. Cadder, for caddow; from
    caa-daw, cawing daw. Douw, for dow, a dove. Par: for
    parrock, a paddock. Fystey: with long y, from foist,
    a fusty smell. Sweltered, over-heated, in profuse perspiration.
    Moize, thrive, mend.

WESTERN (Group 1): S.W. SHROPSHIRE.

The following specimen is given in Miss Jackson's Shropshire Word- book, London, 1879, p. xciv.
It describes how Betty Andrews, of Pulverbatch, rescued her little son, who had fallen into
the brook.

  I 'eärd a scrike, ma'am, an' I run, an' theer I sid Frank 'ad
  pecked i' the bruck an' douked under an' wuz drowndin', an' I
  jumped after 'im an' got 'out on 'im an' lugged 'im on to the bonk
  all sludge, an' I got 'im wham afore our Sam comen in--a good job
  it wuz for Sam as 'e wunna theer an' as Frank wunna drownded, for
  if 'e 'ad bin I should 'a' tore our Sam all to winder-rags, an'
  then 'e 'd a bin djed an' Frank drownded an' I should a bin
  'anged. I toud Sam wen 'e t{)o}{)o}k the 'ouse as I didna like
  it.--"Bless the wench," 'e sed, "what'n'ee want? Theer's a tidy
  'ouse an' a good garden an' a run for the pig." "Aye," I sed, "an'
  a good bruck for the childern to peck in;" so if Frank 'ad bin
  drownded I should a bin the djeth uv our Sam. I wuz that frittened,
  ma'am, that I didna spake for a nour after I got wham, an' Sam sed
  as 'e 'adna sid me quiet so lung sence we wun married, an' that wuz
  eighteen 'ear.

    Notes.--Miss Jackson adds the pronunciation, in glossic
    notation. There is no sound of initial h. Scrike, shriek;
    sid, seed, i.e. saw; pecked, pitched, fallen headlong;
    bruck, brook; douked, ducked; 'out, hold; bonk, bank;
    wham, home; wunna, was not; winder-rags, shreds; djed,
    dead; toud, told; what'n'ee, what do you; a nour, an hour;
    sid, seen; lung, long; wun, were.

SOUTHERN (Group 2): WILTSHIRE.

The following well-known Wiltshire fable is from Wiltshire Tales, by J. Yonge Akerman (1853).
I give it as it stands in the Preface to Halliwell's Dictionary; omitting the "Moral."

    The Harnet and the Bittle.

  A harnet zet in a hollur tree--
  A proper spiteful twoad was he;
  And a merrily zung while he did zet
  His stinge as shearp as a bagganet;
    Oh, who so vine and bowld as I?
    I vears not bee, nor wapse, nor vly!

  A bittle up thuck tree did clim,
  And scarnvully did look at him;
  Zays he, "Zur harnet, who giv thee
  A right to zet in thuck there tree?
    Vor ael you zengs so nation vine,
    I tell 'e 'tis a house o' mine!"

  The harnet's conscience velt a twinge,
  But grawin' bowld wi' his long stinge,
  Zays he, "Possession's the best laaw;
  Zo here th' sha'sn't put a claaw!
    Be off, and leave the tree to me,
    The mixen's good enough for thee!"

  Just then a yuckel, passin' by,
  Was axed by them the cause to try;
  "Ha! ha! I zee how 'tis!" zays he,
  "They'll make a vamous munch vor me!"
    His bill was shearp, his stomach lear,
    Zo up a snapped the caddlin' pair!

    Notes.--Observe z and v for initial s and f; harnet,
    hornet; bittle, beetle; zet, sat; proper, very; twoad,
    toad, wretch; a, he; stinge, sting; bagganet, bayonet.

    Thuck, that; clim, climb; giv, gave; zet, sit; ael, all.

    Th' sha'sn't, thou shalt not; mixen, dung-heap.

    Yuckel, woodpecker; axed, asked; vamous munch, excellent
    meal; lear, empty; caddlin', quarrelsome.

SOUTHERN (Group 3): ISLE OF WIGHT.

The following colloquy is quoted in the Glossary of Isle of Wight Words, E.D.S., 1881, at p. 50.

  I recollect perfectly the late Mr James Phillips of Merston relating
  a dialogue that occurred between two of his labourers relative to
  the word straddle-bob, a beetle.... At the time of luncheon, one
  of them, on taking his bren-cheese (bread and cheese) out of a
  little bag, saw something that had found its way there; which led
  to the following discourse.

  Jan. What's got there, you?

  Will. A straddlebob craalun about in the nammut-bag.

  J. Straddlebob? Where ded'st leyarn to caal 'n by that neyam?

  W. Why, what shoud e caal 'n? 'Tes the right neyam, esn ut?

  J. Right neyam? No! Why, ye gurt zote vool, casn't zee 'tes a
  dumbledore?

  W. I know 'tes; but vur aal that, straddlebob's zo right a
  neyam vor 'n as dumbledore ez.

  J. Come, I'll be blamed if I doant laay thee a quart o' that.

  W. Done! and I'll ax Meyastur to-night when I goos whoam, bee't
  how't wool.

  Accordingly, Meyastur was applied to by Will, who made his decision
  known to Jan the next morning.

  W. I zay, Jan! I axed Meyastur about that are last night.

  J. Well, what ded ur zay?

  W. Why, a zed one neyam ez jest zo vittun vor'n as tother; and
  he lowz a ben caal'd straddlebob ever zunce the Island was vust
  meyad.

  J. Well, if that's the keeas, I spooas I lost the quart.

  W. That thee hast, lucky; and we'll goo down to Arreton to the
  Rid Lion and drink un ater we done work.

    Notes.--Observe z for s, and v for f initially. What's,
    What hast thou; nammut (lit. noon-meat), luncheon, usually
    eaten at 9 A.M. (n{-o}na h{-o}ra); leyarn, learn; esn, is
    not; gurt, great; zote, soft, silly; casn't, canst not;
    laay, lay, wager; how't wool, how it will; that are, that
    there; lowz (lit. allows), opines; zunce, since; vust meyad,
    first made; keeas, case; lucky, look ye!

SOUTHERN (Group 7): EAST SUSSEX.

The following quotations are from the Dictionary of the Sussex Dialect, by the Rev. W.D. Parish,
Vicar of Selmeston; E.D.S. 1875. The Glossary refers rather to E. than to W. Sussex, Selmeston
being between Lewes and Eastbourne.

  Call over, to abuse. "He come along here a-cadging, and fancy he
  just did call me over, because I told him as I hadn't got naun to
  give him." (Naun, nothing.)

  Clocksmith, a watchmaker. "I be quite lost about time, I be; for
  I've been forced to send my watch to the clocksmith. I couldn't make
  no sense of mending it myself; for I'd iled it and I'd biled it, and
  then I couldn't do more with it."

  Cocker-up, to spoil; to gloss over with an air of truth. "You see
  this here chap of hers, he's cockered-up some story about having to
  goo away somewheres up into the sheeres; and I tell her she's no
  call to be so cluck over it; and for my part I dunno but what I be
  very glad an't, for he was a chap as was always a-cokeing about the
  cupboards, and cogging her out of a Sunday." (The sheeres, any
  shire of England except Kent and Sussex; call, reason; cluck,
  out of spirits; coke, to peep; cog, to entice.)

  Joy, a jay. "Poor old Master Crockham, he's in terrible order,
  surelý! The meece have taken his peas, and the joys have got at
  his beans, and the snags have spilt all his lettuce." (Order, bad
  temper; meece, mice; snags, snails; spilt, spoilt.)

  Kiddle, to tickle. "Those thunder-bugs did kiddle me so that I
  couldn't keep still no hows." (Thunder-bug, a midge.)

  Lawyer, a long bramble full of thorns, so called because, "when
  once they gets a holt an ye, ye doänt easy get shut of 'em."

  Leetle, a diminutive of little. "I never see one of these here
  gurt men there's s'much talk about in the peapers, only once, and
  that was up at Smiffle Show adunnamany years agoo. Prime minister,
  they told me he was, up at London; a leetle, lear, miserable,
  skinny-looking chap as ever I see. 'Why,' I says, 'we doänt count
  our minister to be much, but he's a deal primer-looking than what
  yourn be.'" (Gurt, great; Smiffle, Smithfield; adunnamany, I
  don't know how many; lear, thin, hungry; see, saw.)

  Sarment, a sermon. "I likes a good long sarment, I doos; so as
  when you wakes up it ain't all over."

  Tempory (temporary), slight, badly finished. "Who be I? Why, I be
  John Carbury, that's who I be! And who be you? Why, you ain't a man
  at all, you ain't! You be naun but a poor tempory creetur run up by
  contract, that's what you be!"

  Tot, a bush; a tuft of grass. "There warn't any grass at all when
  we fust come here; naun but a passel o' gurt old tots and tussicks.
  You see there was one of these here new-fashioned men had had the
  farm, and he'd properly starved the land and the labourers, and the
  cattle and everything, without it was hisself." (Passel, parcel;
  tussicks, tufts of rank grass.)

  Twort (for thwart), pert and saucy. "She's terrible twort--she
  wants a good setting down, she do; and she'll get it too. Wait till
  my master comes in!"

  Winterpicks, blackthorn berries.

  Winter-proud, cold. "When you sees so many of these here
  winterpicks about, you may be pretty sure 'twill be middlin'
  winter-proud."

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Ancren Riwle; ed. Jas. Morton. Camden Soc., 1873. (About 1230.)

Anglo-Saxon and Early English Psalter. Surtees Society. London, 1843-7. 2 vols. (See p. 25.)

Beda.--Venerabilis Bedae Historiae Ecclesiasticae Gentis Anglorum Libri III, IV; ed. J.E.B.
Mayor, M.A. and J.R. Lumby, B.D. Cambridge, 1878.

---- The Venerable Bede's Ecclesiastical History; also the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle (both in English).
Ed. J.A. Giles, D.C.L. London, 1859. (In Bohn's Library.)

Dictionaries containing dialect words. (See p. 100.)

Durham Ritual.--Rituale Ecclesiæ Dunelmensis. Surtees Society. London, 1840.

Earle, Rev. J.; Anglo-Saxon Literature. London, S.P.C.K., 1884.

E.D.D.--English Dialect Dictionary (to which is appended the English Dialect Grammar); ed.
Dr Joseph Wright. Oxford, 1898-1905.

E.D.S.--English Dialect Society, publications of the. London, 1873-96.

E.E.T.S.--Early English Text Society, publications of the. London, 1864-1910. (Contains Alliterative
Poems, Ayenbite of Inwyt, Barbour's Bruce, Sir Gawayne and the Grene Knight, St Juliana, Kentish
Sermons, Lyndesay's Works, etc.)

Jackson, Miss.--Shropshire Wordbook, by Georgina F. Jackson. London, 1879.

Jamieson's Scottish Dictionary. A new edition, ed. J. Longmuir and D. Donaldson. Paisley, 1879-87.
4to. 4 vols. and Supplement.

Layamon's Brut; ed. Sir F. Madden. London, 1847. 3 vols.

Minot's Poems; ed. J. Hall. Oxford, 1887.

Morris, Rev. R., LL.D.; The Blickling Homilies. (E.E.T.S.) London, 1880.

---- Old English Miscellany. (E.E.T.S.) London, 1872.

---- Old English Homilies, Series I and II. (E.E.T.S.) London, 1867 and 1873.

---- Specimens of Early English. Part I. 1150-1300. Second Edition. Oxford, 1885.

Morris, Rev. R. and Skeat, Rev. W.W.; Specimens of Early English. Part II. Third edition. Oxford,
1894.

Murray, Sir James A.H. The Dialect of the Southern Counties of Scotland. (Phil. Soc.) London, 1873.

N.E.D.--The New English Dictionary; by Sir James A.H. Murray, H. Bradley, and W.A. Craigie.
Oxford, 1888-.

Ormulum; ed. R.M. White. Oxford, 1852. 2 vols.

Pricke of Conscience, by Richard Rolle de Hampole; ed. R. Morris. (Phil. Soc.) London, 1863.

Psalter, by R. Rolle de Hampole; ed. Rev. H.R. Bramley. Oxford, 1884.

Robert of Gloucester; ed. W. Aldis Wright. (Record Series.) London, 1887. 2 vols.

Skeat, Rev. Walter W.; The Chaucer Canon. Oxford, 1900.

---- Etymological English Dictionary. New edition. Oxford, 1910.

---- The Holy Gospels, in Anglo-Saxon, Northumbrian, and Mercian Versions. Cambridge, 1871-87.

---- Primer of English Etymology. Fifth edition. Oxford, 1910.

---- Principles of English Etymology, Series I. Second edition. Oxford, 1892.

