 Can we, from motives of
kindness, incur or risk the charge of being deficient in spirit, in penetration, or in foresight?
Do we tell another of his faults, when the communication, though probably beneficial to him,
cannot be made without embarrassment or pain to ourselves, and may probably lessen his regard
for our person, or his opinion of our judgment? Can we stifle a repartee which would wound
another; though the utterance of it would gratify our vanity, and the suppression of it may
disparage our character for wit? If any one advance a mistaken proposition, in an instance
wherein the error may be mischievous to him; can we, to the prejudice perhaps of our credit
for discernment, forbear to contradict him in public, if it be probable that in so doing, by
piquing his pride we might only harden him in his error? and can we reserve our counsel for
some more favourable season, the "mollia tempora fandi," when it may be communicated without
offence? If we have recommended to any one a particular line of conduct, or have pointed out
the probable mischiefs of the opposite course, and if our admonitions have been neglected,
are we really hurt when our predictions of evil are accomplished? Is our love superior to envy,
and jealousy, and emulation? Are we acute to discern and forward to embrace any fair opportunity
of promoting the interests of another; if it be in a line wherein we ourselves also are moving,
and in which we think our progress has not been proportioned to our desert? Can we take pleasure
in bringing his merits into notice, and in obviating the prejudices which may have damped his
efforts, or in removing the obstacles which may have retarded his advancement? If even to this
extent we should be able to stand the scrutiny, let it be farther asked how, in the case of
our enemies, do we correspond with the Scripture representations of love? Are we meek under
provocations, ready to forgive, and apt to forget injuries? Can we, with sincerity, "bless
them that curse us, do good to them that hate us, and pray for them which despitefully use
us, and persecute us?" Do we prove to the Searcher of hearts a real spirit of forgiveness,
by our forbearing not only from avenging an injury when it is in our power, but even from telling
to any one how ill we have been used; and that too when we are not kept silent by a consciousness
that we should lose credit by divulging the circumstance? And lastly, can we not only be content
to return our enemies good for evil, (for this return, as has been remarked by one of the greatest
of uninspired authorities,[95] may be prompted by pride and repaid by self-complacency) but,
when they are successful or unsuccessful without our having contributed to their good or ill
fortune, can we not only be content, but cordially rejoice in their prosperity, or sympathize
with their distresses?

These are but a few specimens of the characteristic marks which might be stated, of a true
predominant benevolence; yet even these may serve to convince us how far the bulk of nominal
Christians fall short of the requisitions of Scripture, even in that particular, which exhibits
their character in the most favourable point of view. The truth is, we do not enough call to
mind the exalted tone of Scripture morality; and are therefore apt to value ourselves on the
heights to which we attain, when a better acquaintance with our standard would have convinced
us of our falling far short of the elevation prescribed to us. It is in the very instance of
the most difficult of the duties lately specified, the forgiveness and love of enemies, that
our Saviour points out to our imitation the example of our Supreme Benefactor. After stating
that, by being kind and courteous to those who, even in the world's opinion, had a title to
our good offices and good will, we should in vain set up a claim to Christian benevolence,
he emphatically adds, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect."

We must here again resort to a topic which was lately touched on, that of theatrical amusements;
and recommend it to their advocates to consider them in connection with the duty, of which
we have now been exhibiting some of the leading characters.

It is an undeniable fact, for the truth of which we may safely appeal to every age and nation,
that the situation of the performers, particularly of those of the female sex, is remarkably
unfavourable to the maintenance and growth of the religious and moral principle, and of course
highly dangerous to their eternal interests. Might it not then be fairly asked, how far, in
all who confess the truth of this position, it is consistent with the sensibility of Christian
benevolence, merely for the entertainment of an idle hour, to encourage the continuance of
any of their fellow-creatures in such a way of life, and to take a part in tempting any others
to enter into it? how far, considering that, by their own concession, they are employing whatever
they spend in this way, in sustaining and advancing the cause of vice, and consequently in
promoting misery; they are herein bestowing this share of their wealth in a manner agreeable
to the intentions of their holy and benevolent Benefactor? how far also they are not in this
instance the rather criminal, from there being so many sources of innocent pleasure open to
their enjoyment? how far they are acting conformably to that golden principle of doing to others
as we would they should do to us? how far they harmonize with the spirit of the Apostle's affectionate
declaration, that he would deny himself for his whole life the most innocent indulgence, nay,
what might seem almost an absolute necessary, rather than cause his weak fellow Christian to
offend? or lastly, how far they are influenced by the solemn language of our Saviour himself;
"It must needs be that offences come, but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh; it were
better for him that a mill-stone were hanged about his neck, and that he were cast into the
depths of the sea?" The present instance is perhaps another example of our taking greater concern
in the temporal, than in the spiritual interests of our fellow creatures. That man would be
deemed, and justly deemed, of an inhuman temper, who in these days were to seek his amusement
in the combats of gladiators and prize fighters: yet Christians appear conscious of no inconsistency,
in finding their pleasure in spectacles maintained at the risk at least, if not the ruin, of
the eternal happiness of those who perform in them!

SECT. VI.

Grand defect.--Neglect of the peculiar Doctrines of Christianity.

But the grand radical defect in the practical system of these nominal Christians, is their
forgetfulness of all the peculiar doctrines of the Religion which they profess--the corruption
of human nature--the atonement of the Saviour--and the sanctifying influence of the Holy Spirit.

Here then we come again to the grand distinction, between the Religion of Christ and that of
the bulk of nominal Christians in the present day. The point is of the utmost practical importance,
and we would therefore trace it into its actual effects.

There are, it is to be apprehended, not a few, who having been for some time hurried down the
stream of dissipation in the indulgence of all their natural appetites, (except, perhaps, that
they were restrained from very gross vice by a regard to character, or by the yet unsubdued
voice of conscience); and who, having all the while thought little, or scarcely at all about
Religion, "living," to use the emphatical language of Scripture, "without God in the world,"
become in some degree impressed with a sense of the infinite importance of Religion. A fit
of sickness, perhaps, or the loss of some friend or much loved relative, or some other stroke
of adverse fortune, damps their spirits, awakens them to a practical conviction of the precariousness
of all human things, and turns them to seek for some more stable foundation of happiness than
this world can afford. Looking into themselves ever so little, they become sensible that they
must have offended God. They resolve accordingly to set about the work of reformation.--Here
it is that we shall recognize the fatal effects of the prevailing ignorance of the real nature
of Christianity, and the general forgetfulness of its grand peculiarities. These men wish to
reform, but they know neither the real nature of their distemper nor its true remedy.

It often happens therefore but too naturally in this case, that where they do not soon desist
from their attempt at reformation, and relapse into their old habits of sin; they take up with
a partial and scanty amendment, and fondly flatter themselves that it is a thorough change.
They now conceive that they have a right to take to themselves the comforts of Christianity.
Not being able to raise their practice up to their standard of right, they lower their standard
to their practice: they sit down for life contented with their present attainments, beguiled
by the complacencies of their own minds, and by the favourable testimony of surrounding friends;
and it often happens, particularly where there is any degree of strictness in formal and ceremonial
observances, that there are no people more jealous of their character for Religion.

Others perhaps go farther than this. The dread of the wrath to come has sunk deeper into their
hearts; and for a while they strive with all their might to resist their evil propensities,
and to walk without stumbling in the path of duty. Again and again they resolve; again and
again they break their resolutions[96]: All their endeavours are foiled, and they become more
and more convinced of their own moral weakness, and of the strength of their indwelling corruption.
Thus groaning under the enslaving power of sin, and experiencing the futility of the utmost
efforts which they can use for effecting their deliverance, they are tempted (sometimes it
is to be feared they yield to the temptation) to give up all in despair, and to acquiesce under
their wretched captivity, conceiving it impossible to break their chains. Sometimes, probably,
it even happens that they are driven to seek for refuge from their disquietude in the suggestions
of infidelity; and to quiet their troublesome consciences by arguments which they themselves
scarcely believe, at the very moment in which they suffer themselves to be lulled asleep by
them. In the mean time while this conflict has been going on, their walk is sad and comfortless,
and their couch is nightly watered with tears. These men are pursuing the right object, but
they mistake the way in which it is to be obtained. The path in which they are now treading
is not that which the Gospel has provided for conducting them to true holiness, nor will they
find in it any solid peace.

Persons under these circumstances naturally seek for religious instruction. They turn over
the works of our modern Religionists, and as well as they can collect the advice addressed
to men in their situation: the substance of it is, at the best, of this sort; "Be sorry indeed
for your sins, and discontinue the practice of them, but do not make yourselves so uneasy.
Christ died for the sins of the whole world. Do your utmost; discharge with fidelity the duties
of your stations, not neglecting your religious offices; and fear not but that in the end all
will go well; and that having thus performed the conditions required on your part, you will
at last obtain forgiveness of our merciful Creator through the merits of Jesus Christ, and
be aided, where your own strength shall be insufficient, by the assistance of his Holy Spirit.
Meanwhile you cannot do better than read carefully such books of practical divinity, as will
instruct you in the principles of a Christian life. We are excellently furnished with works
of this nature; and it is by the diligent study of them that you will gradually become a proficient
in the lessons of the Gospel."

But the holy Scriptures, and with them the Church of England, call upon those who are in the
circumstances above-stated, to lay afresh the whole foundation of their Religion. In concurrence
with the Scripture, that Church calls upon them, in the first place, gratefully to adore that
undeserved goodness which has awakened them from the sleep of death; to prostrate themselves
before the Cross of Christ with humble penitence and deep self-abhorrence; solemnly resolving
to forsake all their sins, but relying on the Grace of God alone for power to keep their resolution.
Thus, and thus only, she assures them that all their crimes will be blotted out, and that they
will receive from above a new living principle of holiness. She produces from the Word of God
the ground and warrant of her counsel; "Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be
saved."--"No man," says our blessed Saviour, "cometh unto the Father but by me."--"I am the
true Vine.

Let us not be thought tedious, or be accused of running into needless repetitions, in pressing
this point with so much earnestness. It is in fact a point which can never be too much insisted
on. It is the cardinal point on which the whole of Christianity turns; on which it is peculiarly
proper in this place to be perfectly distinct. There have been some who have imagined that
the wrath of God was to be deprecated, or his favour conciliated, by austerities and penances,
or even by forms and ceremonies, and external observances. But all men of enlightened understandings,
who acknowledge the moral government of God, must also acknowledge, that vice must offend and
virtue delight him. In short they must, more or less, assent to the Scripture declaration,
"without holiness no man shall see the Lord." But the grand distinction, which subsists between
the true Christian and all other Religionists, (the class of persons in particular whom it
is our object to address) is concerning the nature of this holiness, and the way in which it
is to be obtained. The views entertained by the latter, of the nature of holiness, are of all
degrees of inadequateness; and they conceive it is to be obtained by their own natural unassisted
efforts: or if they admit some vague indistinct notion of the assistance of the Holy Spirit,
it is unquestionably obvious, on conversing with them, that this does not constitute the main
practical ground of their dependence. But the nature of the holiness, to which the desires
of the true Christian are directed, is no other than the restoration of the image of God: and
as to the manner of acquiring it, disclaiming with indignation every idea of attaining it by
his own strength, all his hopes of possessing it rest altogether on the divine assurances of
the operation of the Holy Spirit, in those who cordially embrace the Gospel of Christ. He knows
therefore that this holiness is not to PRECEDE his reconciliation to God, and be its CAUSE;
but to FOLLOW it, and be its EFFECT. That in short it is by FAITH IN CHRIST only[97] that he
is to be justified in the sight of God; to be delivered from the condition of a child of wrath,
and a slave of Satan; to be adopted into the family of God; to become an heir of God and a
joint heir with Christ, entitled to all the privileges which belong to this high relation;
here, to the Spirit of Grace, and a partial renewal after the image of his Creator; hereafter,
to the more perfect possession of the Divine likeness, and an inheritance of eternal glory.

And as it is in this way, that, in obedience to the dictates of the Gospel, the true Christian
must originally become possessed of the vital spirit and living principle of universal holiness;
so, in order to grow in grace, he must also study in the same school; finding in the consideration
of the peculiar doctrines of the Gospel, and in the contemplation of the life, and character,
and sufferings of our blessed Saviour, the elements of all practical wisdom, and an inexhaustible
storehouse of instructions and motives, no otherwise to be so well supplied. From the neglect
of these peculiar doctrines arise the main practical errors of the bulk of professed Christians.
These gigantic truths retained in view, would put to shame the littleness of their dwarfish
morality. It would be impossible for them to make these harmonize with their low conceptions,
of the wretchedness and danger of their natural state, which is represented in Scripture as
having so powerfully called forth the compassion of God, that he sent his only begotten Son
to rescue us. Where now are their low conceptions of the worth of the soul, when means like
these were taken to redeem it? Where now their inadequate conceptions of the guilt of sin,
for which in the divine counsels it seemed requisite that an atonement no less costly should
be made, than that of the blood of the only begotten Son of God? How can they reconcile their
low standard of Christian practice with the representation of our being "temples of the Holy
Ghost?"

The peculiar doctrines of the Gospel being once admitted, the conclusions which have been now
suggested are clear and obvious deductions of reason. But our neglect of these important truths
is still less pardonable, because they are distinctly and repeatedly applied in Scripture to
the very purposes in question, and the whole superstructure of Christian morals is grounded
on their deep and ample basis. Sometimes these truths are represented in Scripture, generally,
as furnishing Christians with a vigorous and ever present principle of universal obedience.
And our slowness in learning the lessons of heavenly wisdom is still further stimulated, by
almost every particular Christian duty being occasionally traced to them as to its proper source.
They are every where represented as warming the hearts of the people of God on earth with continual
admiration, and thankfulness, and love, and joy; as triumphing over the attack of the last
great enemy, and as calling forth afresh in Heaven the ardent effusions of their unexhausted
gratitude.

Here best we may learn the infinite importance of Christianity. How little it can deserve to
be treated in that slight and superficial way, in which it is in these days regarded by the
bulk of nominal Christians, who are apt to think it may be enough, and almost equally pleasing
to God, to be religious in any way, and upon any system. What exquisite folly it must be to
risk the soul on such a venture, in direct contradiction to the dictates of reason, and the
express declaration of the word of God! "How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation?"

LOOKING UNTO JESUS!

Here we shall best learn the duty and reasonableness of an absolute and unconditional surrender
of soul and body to the will and service of God.--"We are not our own; for we are bought with
a price," and must "therefore" make it our grand concern to "glorify God with our bodies and
our spirits, which are God's." Should we be base enough, even if we could do it with safety,
to make any reserves in our returns of service to that gracious Saviour, who "gave up himself
for us?" If we have formerly talked of compounding by the performance of some commands for
the breach of others; can we now bear the mention of a composition of duties, or of retaining
to ourselves the right of practising little sins! The very suggestion of such an idea fills
us with indignation and shame, if our hearts be not dead to every sense of gratitude.

LOOKING UNTO JESUS!

Here we find displayed, in the most lively colours, the guilt of sin, and how hateful it must
be to the perfect holiness of that Being, "who is of purer eyes than to behold iniquity." When
we see that, rather than sin should go unpunished, "God spared not his own Son," but "was pleased[99],
to bruise him and put him to grief" for our sakes; how vainly must impenitent sinners flatter
themselves with the hope of escaping the vengeance of Heaven, and buoy themselves up with I
know not what desperate dreams of the Divine benignity!

Here too we may anticipate the dreadful sufferings of that state, "where shall be weeping and
gnashing of teeth;" when rather than that we should undergo them, "the Son of God" himself,
who "thought it no robbery to be equal with God," consented to take upon him our degraded nature
with all its weaknesses and infirmities; to be "a man of sorrows," "to hide not his face from
shame and spitting," "to be wounded for our transgressions, and bruised for our iniquities,"
and at length to endure the sharpness of death, "even the death of the Cross," that he might
"deliver us from the wrath to come," and open the kingdom of Heaven to all believers.

LOOKING UNTO JESUS!

Here best we may learn to grow in the love of God! The certainty of his pity and love towards
repenting sinners, thus irrefragably demonstrated, chases away the sense of tormenting fear,
and best lays the ground in us of a reciprocal affection. And while we steadily contemplate
this wonderful transaction, and consider in its several relations the amazing truth, that "God
spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all;" if our minds be not utterly dead
to every impulse of sensibility, the emotions of admiration, of preference, of hope, and trust,
and joy, cannot but spring up within us, chastened with reverential fear, and softened and
quickened by overflowing gratitude[100]. Here we shall become animated by an abiding disposition
to endeavour to please our great Benefactor; and by a humble persuasion, that the weakest endeavours
of this nature will not be despised by a Being, who has already proved himself so kindly affected
towards us[101]. Here we cannot fail to imbibe an earnest desire of possessing his favour,
and a conviction, founded on his own declarations thus unquestionably confirmed, that the desire
shall not be disappointed. Whenever we are conscious that we have offended this gracious Being,
a single thought of the great work of Redemption will be enough to fill us with compunction.
We shall feel a deep concern, grief mingled with indignant shame, for having conducted ourselves
so unworthily towards one who to us has been infinite in kindness: we shall not rest till we
have reason to hope that he is reconciled to us; and we shall watch over our hearts and conduct
in future with a renewed jealousy, lest we should again offend him. To those who are ever so
little acquainted with the nature of the human mind, it were superfluous to remark, that the
affections and tempers which have been enumerated, are the infallible marks and the constituent
properties of Love. Let him then who would abound and grow in this Christian principle, be
much conversant with the great doctrines of the Gospel.

It is obvious, that the attentive and frequent consideration of these great doctrines, must
have a still more direct tendency to produce and cherish in our minds the principle of the
love of Christ. But on this head, so much was said in a former chapter, as to render any farther
observations unnecessary.

