An institution asking of Government only permission to live and opportunity to work, planting
itself firmly and squarely on the generosity of the people, subsisting solely by their free-will
offerings, it is a noble monument of the intelligence, the munificence, and the efficiency
of a free people, and of the alacrity with which it responds when the right chord is rightly
touched. It is, however, not unnatural that doubts should exist as to the success of a plan
so far-reaching in its aims and hitherto so untried. Stories have been circulated of a mercenary
disposition of its stores and trickery among its officers. Where these stories have found considerable
credence, they have been tracked to their source and triumphantly refuted; but it would indeed
be hardly less than miraculous, if an institution ramifying so widely, with agents so numerous,
and resources so extensive, should have no knaves among its servants, and no waste in its circulation.
The wonder is, that more leakage has not been proved than has ever been suspected. All that
is necessary to remove floating doubts, to convince all heads of the wisdom which projected
this Commission, and to warm all hearts up to its continued and sufficient support, is a knowledge
of what it has done, is doing, and purposes to do. This information the Commission has, at
different times, and by piecemeal, furnished: necessarily by piecemeal, since, as this book
justly remarks, the immense mass of details which a circumstantial account of its operations
in field and hospital must involve would prove nearly as laborious in the reading as in the
performance. In this little volume we have, photographed, a single phase of its operations.
It consists simply of extracts from letters and reports. There is no attempt at completeness
or dramatic arrangement; yet the most elaborate grouping would probably fail to present one-half
as accurately a picture of the work and its ways as these unpretending fragments. It delights
us to see the--we can hardly say cheerful, as that savors too much of the "self-sacrifice"
which benevolence sometimes tarnishes by talking about--but, rather, the gay, lively, merry
manner in which the most balky matters are taken hold of. Men and women seem to have gone into
the service with good-will and hearty love and buoyant spirits. It refreshes and strengthens
us like a tonic to read of their taking the wounded, festering, filthy, miserable men, washing
and dressing them, pouring in lemonade and beef-tea, and putting them abed and asleep. There
is not a word about "devotion" or "ministering angels," (we could wish there were not quite
so much about "ladies,") but honest, refined, energetic, able women, with quick brains and
quick hands, now bathing a poor crazy head with ice-water, to be rewarded with one grateful
smile from the parting soul,--now standing in the way of a procession of the slightly wounded,
to pour a little brandy down their throats, or put an orange into their hands, just to keep
them up till they reach food and rest,--now running up the river in a steam-tug, scrambling
eggs in a wash-basin over a spirit-lamp as they go,--now groping their way, at all hours of
the night, through torrents of rain, into dreadful places crammed with sick and dying men,
"calling back to life those in despair from utter exhaustion, or again and again catching for
mother or wife the last faint whispers of the dying,"--now leaving their compliments to serve
a disappointed colonel instead of his dinner, which they had nipped in the bud by dragging
away the stove with its four fascinating and not-to-be-withstood pot-holes;--and let the sutler's
name be wreathed with laurel who not only permitted this, but offered his cart and mule to
drag the stove to the boat, and would take no pay! Let the people's heart never faint and its
hand never weary; but let it, of its abundance, give to this Commission full measure, pressed
down, shaken together, and running over, that, wherever the red trail of war is seen, its divine
footsteps may follow,--that, wherever the red hand of war is lifted to wound, its white hand
may be lifted to heal,--that its work may never cease until it is assumed by a great Christian
Government, or until peace once more reigns throughout the land. And even then, gratitude for
its service, and joy in its glory, shall never die out of the hearts of the American people.
By WILLIAM HOWITT. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co.

There has been a great change of late years in connection with the science of Pneumatology
and with the manner of treating it. There was a revolution of opinion on this subject in the
middle of the last century; there is a counter-revolution to-day.

The superstitions and credulities of the Middle Ages eventuated, during the course of the eighteenth
century, in the Encyclopædism of French philosophy. The grounds upon which the Church based
her doctrine of the supernatural were fiercely attacked. The proofs brought forward to prove
the insufficiency of such grounds were assumed to prove more than lack of logic in the Church;
they were taken as proofs, that, in the nature of things, there is no evidence for the supernatural,
in any sense of the term; in other words, that there is no knowledge within the reach of mortals,
except that which relates to the physical,--to this earth, as the only phase of existence,--to
the vital body, as the all of the human being. Emotional and intellectual phenomena were but
results of material organization, as heat is the result of combustion: they exhibited themselves
so long as vitality continued; they disappeared when death supervened, as the warmth from a
fire dies out with the cessation of combustion. No hypothetical soul was needed to account
for the thousand phenomena of thought or of sensation. Pneumatology was no science, but the
mere fancy of an excited imagination.

Not to the literature and the social life of France alone was this materialistic influence
confined. The mind of Germany, of England, and, more or less, of the rest of Europe, and of
America, was pervaded by it. The tendency, all over the civilized world, was towards unbelief,
not merely in miracles, but in all things spiritual. Science, with her strict tests and her
severe inductions, lent her aid in the same direction.

It does not seem to have occurred to the philosophers of the Encyclopædian school that a doctrine
is not necessarily false because an insufficient argument is brought forward to prove it. It
does not appear to have occurred to skeptical physicists that there may be laws of Nature regulating
ultramundane phenomena, as fixed, as invariable, as those which decide the succession of geological
phenomena and the products of chemical combinations.

Here is a theory which is worth considering. May it not be that God adapts the proofs of that
which it is important that man should know to the intellectual progress of mankind? Is it certain
that the same evidence which sufficed for the foundation of religious faith five hundred years
ago will suffice equally well to-day? Truths are eternal; laws of Nature vary not. But of the
world's thoughts there is a childhood, a youth, a manhood; and there may be various classes
of arguments suited to various stages of progress.

Again, assuming that the materialist takes a contracted view of the economy of human life,
ignoring every portion of it except its present phase, (that phase being but the preparation
for another and a higher,) may it not be, that, as the world advances, men may gradually be
permitted, occasionally and to a limited extent, to become aware of influences exerted from
a more advanced phase of existence over this? May it not be that the links connecting the two
phases of existence are gradually to become more numerous and apparent?

Such are the general views which William Howitt's work is intended to illustrate and enforce.
He selects, as a title-page motto, an axiom from Butler's "Analogy,"--"There are two courses
of Nature: the ordinary and the extraordinary." By the supernatural he does not mean phenomena
out of the course of Nature, but such comparatively rare phenomena as are governed by laws
with which we are unacquainted, and as are, therefore, to us something extraordinary, something
to be wondered at,--miracles.

The author travels over a vast extent of ground,--more, we think, than can be properly explored
in the compass of two duodecimo volumes. All ages, all countries, all faiths, furnish their
quota towards his collection. It is curious, interesting, suggestive, rather than conclusive.
It exhibits more industry than logic. It consists rather of abundant materials for others to
use, than of materials worked up by the collector. It gives evidence of learning, research,
and a comprehensive study of the subject. It is a thesaurus of pneumatological knowledge, collected
with German assiduity. It will set many to thinking, though it may convince but few, except
of the one truth, that the faith in the supernatural has been a universal faith, pervading
all nations, persisting through all ages.

The number of those who take an interest in the subject treated of in Mr. Howitt's book, and
who believe that great truths underlie popular superstitions, increases day by day; and the
work will probably have a wide circulation.