I looked at her, as though she were a thousand miles away. I stood there impressed by the utter
inadequacy of speech. And the thing that puzzled me was that there was an air of honesty about
the woman. She still so desperately clung to her self-respect that she wanted me to understand
both her predicament and her motives. I could hear her explaining that my husband had no intention
of going to Reno, but would live in Virginia City, where he was taking up some actual mining
interests. Such things were not pleasant, of course. But this one could be put through without
difficulty. Mr. McKail had been assured of that.

I tried to pull myself together, wondering why I should so suddenly feel like a marked woman,
a pariah of the prairies, as friendless and alone as a leper. Then I thought of my children.
And that cleared my head, like a wind sweeping clean a smoky room.

"But a case has to be made out," I began. "It would have to be proved that I----"

"There will be no difficulty on that point, Mrs. McKail," went on the other woman as I came
to a stop. "Provided the suit is not opposed."

The significance of that quietly uttered phrase did not escape me. Our glances met and locked.

"There are the children," I reminded her. And she looked a very commercialized young lady as
she sat confronting me across her many columns of figures.

"There should be no difficulty there--provided the suit is not opposed," she repeated with
the air of a physician confronted by a hypochondriacal patient.

"The children are mine," I rather foolishly proclaimed, with my first touch of passion.

"The children are yours," she admitted. And about her hung an air of authority, of cool reserve,
which I couldn't help resenting.

"That is very generous of you," I admitted, not without ironic intent.

She smiled rather sadly as she sat looking at me.

"It's something that doesn't rest with either of us," she said with the suspicion of a quaver
in her voice. And she, I suddenly remembered, might some day sit eating her pot of honey on
a grave. I realized, too, that very little was to be gained by prolonging that strangest of
interviews. I wanted quietude in which to think things over. I wanted to go back to my cell
like a prisoner and brood over my sentence....

And I have thought things over. I at last see the light. From this day forward there shall
be no vacillating. I am going back to Casa Grande.

I have always hated this house; I have always hated everything about the place, without having
the courage to admit it. I have done my part, I have made my effort, and it was a wasted effort.
I wasn't even given a chance. And now I shall gather my things together and go back to my home,
to the only home that remains to me. I shall still have my kiddies. I shall have my Poppsy
and--But sharp as an arrow-head the memory of my lost boy strikes into my heart. My Dinkie
is gone. I no longer have him to make what is left of my life endurable....

It is raining to-night, I notice, steadily and dismally. It is a dark night, outside, for lost
children....

Duncan has just come home, wet and muddy, and gone up to his room. The gray-faced solemnity
with which he strode past me makes me feel sure that he has been conversing with his lady-love.
But what difference does it make? What difference does anything make? In the matter of women,
I have just remembered, what may be one man's meat is another man's poison. But I can't understand
these reversible people, like house-rugs, who can pretend to love two ways at once.... I only
know one man, in all the wide world, who has not shattered my faith in his kind. He is one
of those neck-or-nothing men who never change.

There are many ranchers, out in this country, who keep what they call a blizzard-line. It's
a rope that stretches in winter from their house-door to their shed or their stable, a rope
that keeps them from getting lost when a blizzard is raging. Peter, I know, has been my blizzard-line.
And in some way, please God, he will yet lead me back to warmth. He is himself out there in
the cold, accepting it, all the time, with the same quiet fortitude that a Polar bear might.
But he will thole through, in the end. For with all his roughness he can be unexpectedly adroit.
Whinstane Sandy once told me something he had learned about Polar bears in his old Yukon days:
with all their heaviness, they can go where a dog daren't venture. If need be, they can flatten
out and slide over a sheet of ice too thin to support a running dog. And the drift-ice may
be widening, but I refuse to give up my hope of hope. "Let the mother go," as the Good Book
says, "that it may be well with thee!" ...

I have just remembered that I tried to shoot my husband once. He may make use of that, when
he gets down to Virginia City. It might, in fact, help things along very materially. And Susie's
eyes will probably pop out, when she reads it in a San Francisco paper....

I've thought of so many clever things I should have said to Alsina Teeswater. As I look back,
I find it was the other lady who did about all the talking. There were old ulcerations to be
cleared away, of course, and I let her talk about the same as you let a dentist work with his
fingers in your mouth.... But now I must go up and make sure my Poppsy is safely tucked in.
I have just opened the door and looked out. It is storming wretchedly. God pity any little
boys who are abroad on such a night!

Two Hours Later

It is well past midnight. But there is no sleep this night for Chaddie McKail. I am too happy
to sleep. I am too happy to act sane. For my boy is safe. Peter has found my Dinkie!

I was called to the telephone, a little after eleven, but couldn't hear well on the up-stairs
extension, so I went to the instrument down-stairs, where the operator told me it was long-distance,
from Buckhorn. So I listened, with my heart in my mouth. But all I could get was a buzz and
crackle and an occasional ghostly word. It was the storm, I suppose. Then I heard Peter's voice,
thin and faint and far away, but most unmistakably Peter's voice.

"Can you hear me now?" he said, like a man speaking from the bottom of the sea.

"Yes," I called back. "What is it?"

"Get ready for good news," said that thin but valorous voice that seemed to be speaking from
the tip-top mountains of Mars. But the crackling and burring cut us off again. Then something
must have happened to the line, or we must have been switched to a better circuit. For, the
next moment, Peter's voice seemed almost in the next room. It seemed to come closer at a bound,
like a shore-line when you look at it through a telescope.

"Is that any better?" he asked through his miles and miles of rain-swept blackness.

"Yes, I can hear you plainly now," I told him.

"Ah, yes, that is better," he acknowledged. "And everything else is, too, my dear. For I've
found your Dinkie and----"

"You've found Dinkie?" I gasped.

"I have, thank God. And he's safe and sound!"

"Where?" I demanded.

"Fast asleep at Alabama Ranch."

"Is he all right?"

"As fit as a fiddle--all he wants is sleep."

"Oh, Peter!" It was foolish. But it was all I could say for a full minute. For my boy was alive,
and safe. My laddie had been found by Peter--by good old Peter, who never, in the time of need,
was known to fail me.

"Where are you now?" I asked, when reason was once more on her throne.

"At Buckhorn," answered Peter.

"And you went all that way through the mud and rain, just to tell me?" I said.

"I had to, or I'd blow up!" acknowledged Peter. "And now I'd like to know what you want me to do."

"I want you to come and get me, Peter," I said slowly and distinctly over the wire.

There was a silence of several seconds.

"Do you understand what that means?" he finally demanded. His voice, I noticed, had become
suddenly solemn.

"Yes, Peter, I understand," I told him. "Please come and get me!" And again the silence was
so prolonged that I had to cut in and ask: "Are you there?"

And Peter's voice answered "Yes."

"Then you'll come?" I exacted, determined to burn all my bridges behind me.

"I'll be there on Monday," said Peter, with quiet decision. "I'll be there with Tithonus and
Tumble-Weed and the old prairie-schooner. And we'll all trek home together!"

"Skookum!" I said with altogether unbecoming levity.

I patted the telephone instrument as I hung up the receiver. Then I sat staring at it in a
brown study.

Then I went careening up-stairs and woke Poppsy out of a sound sleep and hugged her until her
bones were ready to crack and told her that our Dinkie had been found again. And Poppsy, not
being quite able to get it through her sleepy little head, promptly began to bawl. But there
was little to bawl over, once she was thoroughly awake. And then I went careening down to the
telephone again, and called up Lossie's boarding-house, and had her landlady root the poor
girl out of bed, and heard her break down and have a little cry when I told her our Dinkie
had been found. And the first thing she asked me, when she was able to talk again, was if Gershom
Binks had been told of the good news. And I had to acknowledge that I hadn't even thought of
poor old Gershom, but that Peter Ketley would surely have passed the good word on to Casa Grande,
for Peter always seemed to think of the right thing.

And then I remembered about Duncan. For Duncan, whatever he may have been, was still the boy's
father. And he must be told. It was my duty to tell him. So once more I climbed the stairs,
but this time more slowly. I had to wait a full minute before I found the courage, I don't
know why, to knock on Duncan's bedroom door.

I knocked twice before any answer came.

"What is it?" asked the familiar sleepy bass--and I realized what gulfs yawned between us when
my husband on one side of that closed door could be lying lost in slumber and I on the other
side of it could find life doing such unparalleled things to me. I felt for him as a girl home,
tired from her first dance, feels for a young brother asleep beside a Noah's Ark.

"What is it?" I heard Duncan's voice repeating from the bed.

"It's me," I rather weakly proclaimed.

"What has happened?" was the question that came after a moment's silence.

I leaned with my face against the painted door-panel. It was smooth and cool and pleasant to
press one's skin against.

"They've found Dinkie," I said. I could hear the squeak of springs as my husband sat up in bed.

"Is he all right?"

"Yes, he's all right," I said with a great sigh. And I listened for an answering sigh from
the other side of the door.

But instead of that Duncan's voice asked: "Where is he?"

"At Alabama Ranch," I said, without realizing what that acknowledgment meant. And again a brief
period of silence intervened.

"Who found him?" asked my husband, in a hardened voice.

"Peter Ketley," I said, in as collected a voice as I could manage. And this time the significance
of the silence did not escape me.

"Then your cup of happiness ought to be full," I heard the voice on the other side of the door
remark with heavy deliberateness. I stood there with my face leaning against the cool panel.

"It is," I said with a quiet audacity which surprised me almost as much as it must have surprised
the man on the bed a million miles away from me.

Sunday the Eighth

How different is life from what the fictioneers would paint it! How hopelessly mixed-up and
macaronic, how undignified in what ought to be its big moments and how pompous in so many of
its pettinesses!

I told my husband to-day that Poppsy and I were going back to Casa Grande. And that, surely,
ought to have been the Big Moment in the career of an unloved invertebrate. But the situation
declined to take off, as the airmen say.

"I guess that means it's about time we got unscrambled," the man I had once married and lived
with quietly remarked.

"Wasn't that your intention?" I just as quietly inquired.

"It's what I've had forced on me," he retorted, with a protective hardening of the Holbein-Astronomer
jaw-line.

"I'm sorry," was all I could find to say.

He turned to the window and stared out at his big white iron fountain set in his terraced lawn
behind his endless cobble-stone walls. I couldn't tell, of course, what he was thinking about.
But I myself was thinking of the past, the irrecoverable past, the irredeemable past, the singing
years of my womanly youth that seemed to be sealed in a lowered coffin on which the sheltering
earth would soon be heaped, on which the first clods were already dropping with hollow sounds.
We each seemed afraid to look the other full in the eyes. So we armored ourselves, as poor
mortals must do, in the helmets of pretended diffidence and the breast-plates of impersonality.

"How are you going back?" my husband finally inquired. Whatever ghosts it had been necessary
to lay, I could see, he had by this time laid. He no longer needed to stare out at the white
iron fountain of which he was so proud.

"I've sent for the prairie-schooner," I told him.

His flush of anger rather startled me.

"Doesn't that impress you as rather cheaply theatrical?" he demanded.

"I fancy it will be very comfortable," I told him, without looking up. I'd apparently been
attributing to him feelings which, after all, were not so desolating as I might have wished.

"Every one to his own taste," he observed as he called rather sharply to Tokudo to bring him
his humidor. Then he took out a cigar and lighted it and ordered the car. And that was the
lee and the long of it. That was the way we faced our Great Divide, our forked trail that veered
off East and West into infinity!

Thursday the Eleventh

The trek is over. And it was not one of triumph. For we find ourselves, sometimes, in deeper
water than we imagine. Then we have to choke and gasp for a while before we can get our breath
back.

Peter, in the first place, didn't appear with the prairie-schooner. He left that to come later
in the day, with Whinnie and Struthers. He appeared quite early Monday morning, with fire in
his eye, and with a demand to see the master of the house. Heaven knows what he had heard,
or how he had heard it. But the two men were having it hot and heavy when I felt it was about
time for me to step into the room. To be quite frank, I had not expected any such outburst
from Duncan. I knew his feelings were not involved, and where you have a vacuum it is impossible,
of course, to have an explosion. I interpreted his resentment as a show of opposition to save
his face. But I was wrong. And I was wrong about Peter. That mild-eyed man is no plaster saint.
He can fight, if he's goaded into it, and fight like a bulldog. He was saying a few plain truths
to Duncan, when I stepped into the room, a few plain truths which took the color out of the
Dour Man's face and made him shake with anger.

"For two cents," Duncan was rather childishly shouting at him, "I'd fill you full of lead!"

"Try it!" said Peter, who wasn't any too steady himself. "Try it, and you'd at least end up
with doing something in the open!"

Duncan studied him, like a prize-fighter studying his waiting opponent.

"You're a cheap actor," he finally announced. "This sort of thing isn't settled that way, and
you know it."

"And it's not going to be settled the way you intended," announced Peter Ketley.

"What do you know about my intentions?" demanded Duncan.

"Much more than you imagine," retorted Peter. "I've got your record, McKail, and I've had it
for three years. I've stood by, until now; but the time has come when I'm going to have a hand
in this thing. And you're not going to get your freedom by dragging this woman's name through
a divorce-court. If there's any dragging to be done, it's your carcass that's going to be tied
to the tail-board!"

Duncan stood studying him with a face cheese-colored with hate.

"Aren't you rather double-crossing yourself?" he mocked.

"I'm not thinking about myself," said Peter.

"Then what's prompting all the heroics?" demanded Duncan.

"For two years and more, McKail," Peter cried out as he stepped closer to the other man, "you've
given this woman a pretty good working idea of hell. And I've seen enough of it. It's going
to end. It's got to end. But it's not going to end the way you've so neatly figured out!"

"Then how do you propose to end it?" Duncan demanded, with a sort of second-wind of composure.
But his face was still colorless.

"You'll see when the time comes," retorted Peter.

"You may have rather a long wait," taunted Duncan.

"I have waited a number of years," answered the other man, with a dignity which sent a small
thrill up and down my spine. "And I can wait a number of years more if I have to."

"We all knew, of course, that you were waiting," sneered my husband.

Peter turned to fling back an answer to that, but I stepped between them. I was tired of being
haggled over, like marked-down goods on a bargain-counter. I was tired of being a passive agent
before forces that seemed stripping me of my last shred of dignity. I was tired of the shoddiness
of the entire shoddy situation.

And I told them so. I told them I'd no intention of being bargained over, and that I'd had
rather enough of men for the rest of my natural life, and if Duncan wanted his freedom he was
at liberty to take it without the slightest opposition from me. And I said a number of other
things, which I have no wish either to remember or record. But it resulted in Duncan staring
at me in a resurrection-plant sort of way, and in Peter rather dolorously taking his departure.
I wanted to call him back, but I couldn't carpenter together any satisfactory excuse for his
coming back, and I couldn't see any use in it.

So instead of journeying happily homeward in the cavernous old prairie-schooner, I felt a bit
ridiculous as Tokudo impassively carried our belongings out to the canvas-covered wagon and
Poppsy and I climbed aboard. The good citizens of American Hill stared after us as we rumbled
down through the neatly boulevarded streets, and I felt suspiciously like a gypsy-queen who'd
been politely requested by the local constabulary to move on.

It wasn't until we reached the open country that my spirits revived. Then the prairie seemed
to reach out its hand to me and give me peace. We camped, that first night, in the sheltering
arm of a little coulée threaded by a tiny stream. We cooked bacon and eggs and coffee while
Whinnie out-spanned his team and put up his tent.

I sat on an oat-sack, after supper, with Poppsy between my knees, watching the evening stars
come out. They were worlds, I remembered, some of them worlds perhaps with sorrowing men and
women on them. And they seemed very lonely and far-away worlds, until I heard the drowsy voice
of my Poppsy say up through the dusk: "In two days more, Mummy, we'll be back to Dinkie, won't we?"

And there was much, I remembered, for which a mother should be thankful.

Sunday the Fourteenth

Dark, and true, and tender is the North. Heaven bless the rhymster who first penned those words.
Spring is stealing hack to the prairie, and our world is a world of beauty. The sky to-day
is windrowed with flat-bottomed cumulus-clouds, tier beyond tier above a level plane of light,
marking off the infinite distance like receding mile-stones on a world turned over on its back.
Occasionally the outstretched head of a wild duck, pumping north with a black throb of wings,
melts away to a speck in the opaline air. Back among the muskeg reeds the waders are courting
and chattering, and early this morning I heard the plaintive winnowing call-note of the Wilson
snipe, and later the punk-e-lunk love-cry of a bittern to his mate. There's an eagle planing
in lazy circles high in the air, even now, putting a soft-pedal on the noise of the coots and
grebes as he circles over their rush-lined cabarets. And somewhere out on the range a bull
is lowing. It is the season of love and the season of happiness. Dinkie and Poppsy and I are
going out to gather prairie-crocuses. They are thick now in the prairie-sod, soft blue and
lavender and sometimes mauve. We must dance to the vernal saraband while we can: Spring is
so short in this norland country of ours. It comes late. But as Peter says, A late spring never
deceives....

I thought I had offended Peter for life. But when he appeared late this afternoon and I asked
him why he had kept away from me, he said these first few days naturally belonged to Dinkie
and he'd been busy studying marsh-birds. He looked rather rumpled and muddy, and impressed
me as a man sadly in need of a woman to look after his things.

"Let's ride," said Peter. "I want to talk to you."

I was afraid of that talk, but I was more afraid something might happen to interfere with it.
So I changed into my old riding-duds and put on my weather-stained old sombrero and we saddled
Buntie and Laughing-Gas and went loping off over the sun-washed prairie with our shadows behind us.

We rode a long way before Peter said anything. I wanted to be happy, but I wasn't quite able
to be. I tried to think of neither the past nor the future, but there were too many ghosts
of other days loping along the trail beside us.

"What are you going to do?" Peter finally inquired.

"About what?" I temporized as he pulled up beside me.

"About everything," he ungenerously responded.

"I don't know what to do, Peter," I had to acknowledge. "I'm like a barrel without hoops. I
want to stick together, but one more thump will surely send me to pieces!"

"Then why not get the hoops around?" suggested Peter.

"But where will I get the hoops?" I asked.

"Here," he said. He was, I noticed, holding out his arms. And I laughed, even though my heart
was heavy.

"Men have been a great disappointment to me, Peter," I said with a shake of my sombrero.

"Try me," suggested Peter.

But still again I had to shake my head.

"That wouldn't be fair, Peter," I told him. "I can't spoil your life to see what's left of
my own patched up."

"Then you're going to spoil two of 'em!" he promptly asserted.

"But I don't believe in that sort of thing," I did my best to explain to him. "I've had my
innings, and I'm out. I've a one-way heart, the same as a one-way street. I don't think there's
anything in the world more odious than promiscuity. That's a big word, but it stands for an
even bigger offense against God. I've always said I intended to be a single-track woman."

"But your track's blown up," contended Peter.

"Then I'll have to lay me a new one," I said with a fine show of assurance.

"And do you know where it will lead?" he demanded,

"Where?" I asked.

"Straight to me," he said as he studied me with eyes that were so quiet and kind I could feel
a flutter of my heart-wings.

But still again I shook my head.

"That would be bringing you nothing but a withered up old has-been," I said with a mock-wail
of misery.

And Peter actually laughed at that.

"It'll be a good ten years before you've even grown up," he retorted. "And another twenty years
before you've really settled down!"

"You're saying I'll never have sense," I objected. "And I know you're right."

"That's what I love about you," averred Peter.

"What you love about me?" I demanded.

"Yes," he said with his patient old smile, "your imperishable youthfulness, your eternal never-ending
eternity-defying golden-tinted girlishness!"

A flute began to play in my heart. And I knew that like Ulysses's men I would have to close
my ears to it. But it's easier to row past an island than to run away from your own heart.

"I know it's a lie, Peter, but I love you for saying it. It makes me want to hug you, and it
makes me want to pirouette, if I wasn't on horseback. It makes my heart sing. But it's only
the singing of one lonely little chickadee in the middle of a terribly big pile of ruins. For
that's all my life can be now, just a hopeless smash-up. And you're cut out for something better
than a wrecking-car for the rest of your days."

"No, no," protested Peter. "It's you who've got to save me."

"Save you?" I echoed.

"You've got to give me something to live for, or I'll just rust away in the ditch and never
get back to the rails again."

"Peter!" I cried.

"What?" he asked.

"You're not playing fair. You're trying to make me pity you."

"Well, don't you?" demanded Peter.

"I would if I saw you sacrificing your life for a woman with a crazy-quilt past."

"I'm not thinking of the past," asserted Peter, "I'm thinking of the future."

"That's just it," I tried to explain. "I'll have to face that future with a clouded name. I'll
be a divorced woman. Ugh! I always thought of divorced women as something you wouldn't quite
care to sit next to at table. I hate divorce."

"I'm a Quaker myself," acknowledged Peter. "But I occasionally think of what Cobbett once said:
'I don't much like weasels. Yet I hate rats. Therefore I say success to the weasels!'"

"I don't see what weasels have to do with it," I complained.

"Putting one's house in order again may sometimes be as beneficent as surgery," contended Peter.

"And sometimes as painful," I added.

"Yet there's no mistake like not cleaning up old mistakes."

"But I hate it," I told him. "It all seems so--so cheap."

"On the contrary," corrected Peter, "it's rather costly." He pulled up across my path and made
me come to a stop. "My dear," he said, very solemn again, "I know the stuff you're made of.
I know you've got to climb to the light by a path of your own choosing. And you have to see
the light with your own eyes. But I'm willing to wait. I have waited, a very long time. But
there's one fact you've got to face: I love you too much ever to dream of giving you up."

I don't think either of us moved for a full moment. The flute was singing so loud in my heart
that I was afraid of myself. And, woman-like, I backed away from the thing I wanted.

"It's not me, Peter, I must remember now. It's my bairns. I've two bairns to bring up."

"I've got the three of you to bring up," maintained Peter. And that made us both sit silent
for another moment or two.

"It's not that simple," I finally said, though Peter smiled guardedly at my ghost of a smile.

"It would be if you cared for me as much as Dinkie does," he said with quite unnecessary solemnity.

"Oh, Peter, I do, I do," I cried out as the memory of all I owed him surged mistily through
my mind. "But a gray hair is something you can't joke away. And I've got five of them, right
here over my left ear. I found them, months ago. And they're there to stay!"

"How about my bald spot?" demanded my oppressor and my deliverer rolled into one.

"What's a bald spot compared to a bob-cat of a temper like mine?" I challenged, remembering
how I'd once heard a revolver-hammer snap in my husband's face.

"But it's your spirit I like," maintained the unruffled Peter.

"You wouldn't always," I reminded him.

Yet he merely looked at me with his trust-me-and-test-me expression.

"I'll chance it!" he said, after a quite contented moment or two of meditative silence.

"But don't you see," I went forlornly arguing on, "it mustn't be a chance. That's something
people of our age can never afford to take."

And Peter, at that, for some reason I couldn't fathom, began to wag his head. He did it slowly
and lugubriously, like a man who inspects a road he has no liking for. But at the same time,
apparently, he was finding it hard to tuck away a small smile of triumph.

"Then we must never see each other again," he solemnly asserted.

"Peter!" I cried.

"I must go away, at once," he meditatively observed.

"Peter!" I said again, with the flute turning into a pair of ice-tongs that clamped into the
corners of my heart.

"Far, far away," he continued as he studiously avoided my eye. "For there will be safety now
only in flight."

"Safety from what?" I demanded.

"From you," retorted Peter.

"But what will happen to me, if you do that?" I heard my own voice asking as Buntie started
to paw the prairie-floor and I did my level best to fight down the black waves of desolation
that were half-drowning me. "What'll there be to hold me up, when you're the only man in all
this world who can keep my barrel of happiness from going slap-bang to pieces? What----?"

"Verboten!" interrupted Peter. But that solemn-soft smile of his gathered me in and covered
me, very much as the rumpled feathers of a mother-bird cover her young, her crazily twittering
and crazily wandering young who never know their own mind.

"What'll happen to me," I went desperately on, "when you're the only man alive who understands
this crazy old heart of mine, when you've taught me to hitch the last of my hope on the one
unselfish man I've ever known?"

This seemed to trouble Peter. But only remotely, as the lack of grammar in the Lord's Prayer
might affect a Holy Roller. He insisted, above all things, on being judicial.

"Then I'll have to come back, I suppose," he finally admitted, "for Dinkie's sake."

"Why for Dinkie's sake?" I asked.

"Because some day, my dear, our Dinkie is going to be a great man. And I want to have a hand
in fashioning that greatness."

I sat looking at the red ball of the sun slipping down behind the shoulder of the world. A
wind came out of the North, cool and sweet and balsamic with hope. I heard a loon cry. And
then the earth was still again.

"We'll be waiting," I said, with a tear of happiness tickling the bridge of my nose. And then,
so that Peter might not see still another loon crying, I swung Buntie sharply about on the
trail. And we rode home, side by side, through the twilight.

THE END