That same night after Adrian's departure, her mother had warmly expostulated with her on the
subject of her attachment to me. Every motive, every threat, every angry taunt was urged in
vain. She seemed to consider that through me she had lost Raymond; I was the evil influence
of her life; I was even accused of encreasing and confirming the mad and base apostacy of Adrian
from all views of advancement and grandeur; and now this miserable mountaineer was to steal
her daughter. Never, Idris related, did the angry lady deign to recur to gentleness and persuasion;
if she had, the task of resistance would have been exquisitely painful. As it was, the sweet
girl's generous nature was roused to defend, and ally herself with, my despised cause. Her
mother ended with a look of contempt and covert triumph, which for a moment awakened the suspicions
of Idris. When they parted for the night, the Countess said, "To-morrow I trust your tone will
be changed: be composed; I have agitated you; go to rest; and I will send you a medicine I
always take when unduly restless--it will give you a quiet night."

By the time that she had with uneasy thoughts laid her fair cheek upon her pillow, her mother's
servant brought a draught; a suspicion again crossed her at this novel proceeding, sufficiently
alarming to determine her not to take the potion; but dislike of contention, and a wish to
discover whether there was any just foundation for her conjectures, made her, she said, almost
instinctively, and in contradiction to her usual frankness, pretend to swallow the medicine.
Then, agitated as she had been by her mother's violence, and now by unaccustomed fears, she
lay unable to sleep, starting at every sound. Soon her door opened softly, and on her springing
up, she heard a whisper, "Not asleep yet," and the door again closed. With a beating heart
she expected another visit, and when after an interval her chamber was again invaded, having
first assured herself that the intruders were her mother and an attendant, she composed herself
to feigned sleep. A step approached her bed, she dared not move, she strove to calm her palpitations,
which became more violent, when she heard her mother say mutteringly, "Pretty simpleton, little
do you think that your game is already at an end for ever."

For a moment the poor girl fancied that her mother believed that she had drank poison: she
was on the point of springing up; when the Countess, already at a distance from the bed, spoke
in a low voice to her companion, and again Idris listened: "Hasten," said she, "there is no
time to lose-- it is long past eleven; they will be here at five; take merely the clothes necessary
for her journey, and her jewel-casket." The servant obeyed; few words were spoken on either
side; but those were caught at with avidity by the intended victim. She heard the name of her
own maid mentioned;--"No, no," replied her mother, "she does not go with us; Lady Idris must
forget England, and all belonging to it." And again she heard, "She will not wake till late
to-morrow, and we shall then be at sea."----"All is ready," at length the woman announced.
The Countess again came to her daughter's bedside: "In Austria at least," she said, "you will
obey. In Austria, where obedience can be enforced, and no choice left but between an honourable
prison and a fitting marriage."

Both then withdrew; though, as she went, the Countess said, "Softly; all sleep; though all
have not been prepared for sleep, like her. I would not have any one suspect, or she might
be roused to resistance, and perhaps escape. Come with me to my room; we will remain there
till the hour agreed upon." They went. Idris, panic-struck, but animated and strengthened even
by her excessive fear, dressed herself hurriedly, and going down a flight of back-stairs, avoiding
the vicinity of her mother's apartment, she contrived to escape from the castle by a low window,
and came through snow, wind, and obscurity to my cottage; nor lost her courage, until she arrived,
and, depositing her fate in my hands, gave herself up to the desperation and weariness that
overwhelmed her.

I comforted her as well as I might. Joy and exultation, were mine, to possess, and to save
her. Yet not to excite fresh agitation in her, "per non turbar quel bel viso sereno," I curbed
my delight. I strove to quiet the eager dancing of my heart; I turned from her my eyes, beaming
with too much tenderness, and proudly, to dark night, and the inclement atmosphere, murmured
the expressions of my transport. We reached London, methought, all too soon; and yet I could
not regret our speedy arrival, when I witnessed the extasy with which my beloved girl found
herself in her brother's arms, safe from every evil, under his unblamed protection.

Adrian wrote a brief note to his mother, informing her that Idris was under his care and guardianship.
Several days elapsed, and at last an answer came, dated from Cologne. "It was useless," the
haughty and disappointed lady wrote, "for the Earl of Windsor and his sister to address again
the injured parent, whose only expectation of tranquillity must be derived from oblivion of
their existence. Her desires had been blasted, her schemes overthrown. She did not complain;
in her brother's court she would find, not compensation for their disobedience (filial unkindness
admitted of none), but such a state of things and mode of life, as might best reconcile her
to her fate. Under such circumstances, she positively declined any communication with them."

Such were the strange and incredible events, that finally brought about my union with the sister
of my best friend, with my adored Idris. With simplicity and courage she set aside the prejudices
and opposition which were obstacles to my happiness, nor scrupled to give her hand, where she
had given her heart. To be worthy of her, to raise myself to her height through the exertion
of talents and virtue, to repay her love with devoted, unwearied tenderness, were the only
thanks I could offer for the matchless gift.

CHAPTER VI.

AND now let the reader, passing over some short period of time, be introduced to our happy
circle. Adrian, Idris and I, were established in Windsor Castle; Lord Raymond and my sister,
inhabited a house which the former had built on the borders of the Great Park, near Perdita's
cottage, as was still named the low-roofed abode, where we two, poor even in hope, had each
received the assurance of our felicity. We had our separate occupations and our common amusements.
Sometimes we passed whole days under the leafy covert of the forest with our books and music.
This occurred during those rare days in this country, when the sun mounts his etherial throne
in unclouded majesty, and the windless atmosphere is as a bath of pellucid and grateful water,
wrapping the senses in tranquillity. When the clouds veiled the sky, and the wind scattered
them there and here, rending their woof, and strewing its fragments through the aerial plains--then
we rode out, and sought new spots of beauty and repose. When the frequent rains shut us within
doors, evening recreation followed morning study, ushered in by music and song. Idris had a
natural musical talent; and her voice, which had been carefully cultivated, was full and sweet.
Raymond and I made a part of the concert, and Adrian and Perdita were devout listeners. Then
we were as gay as summer insects, playful as children; we ever met one another with smiles,
and read content and joy in each other's countenances. Our prime festivals were held in Perdita's
cottage; nor were we ever weary of talking of the past or dreaming of the future. Jealousy
and disquiet were unknown among us; nor did a fear or hope of change ever disturb our tranquillity.
Others said, We might be happy--we said--We are.

When any separation took place between us, it generally so happened, that Idris and Perdita
would ramble away together, and we remained to discuss the affairs of nations, and the philosophy
of life. The very difference of our dispositions gave zest to these conversations. Adrian had
the superiority in learning and eloquence; but Raymond possessed a quick penetration, and a
practical knowledge of life, which usually displayed itself in opposition to Adrian, and thus
kept up the ball of discussion. At other times we made excursions of many days' duration, and
crossed the country to visit any spot noted for beauty or historical association. Sometimes
we went up to London, and entered into the amusements of the busy throng; sometimes our retreat
was invaded by visitors from among them. This change made us only the more sensible to the
delights of the intimate intercourse of our own circle, the tranquillity of our divine forest,
and our happy evenings in the halls of our beloved Castle.

The disposition of Idris was peculiarly frank, soft, and affectionate. Her temper was unalterably
sweet; and although firm and resolute on any point that touched her heart, she was yielding
to those she loved. The nature of Perdita was less perfect; but tenderness and happiness improved
her temper, and softened her natural reserve. Her understanding was clear and comprehensive,
her imagination vivid; she was sincere, generous, and reasonable. Adrian, the matchless brother
of my soul, the sensitive and excellent Adrian, loving all, and beloved by all, yet seemed
destined not to find the half of himself, which was to complete his happiness. He often left
us, and wandered by himself in the woods, or sailed in his little skiff, his books his only
companions. He was often the gayest of our party, at the same time that he was the only one
visited by fits of despondency; his slender frame seemed overcharged with the weight of life,
and his soul appeared rather to inhabit his body than unite with it. I was hardly more devoted
to my Idris than to her brother, and she loved him as her teacher, her friend, the benefactor
who had secured to her the fulfilment of her dearest wishes. Raymond, the ambitious, restless
Raymond, reposed midway on the great high-road of life, and was content to give up all his
schemes of sovereignty and fame, to make one of us, the flowers of the field. His kingdom was
the heart of Perdita, his subjects her thoughts; by her he was loved, respected as a superior
being, obeyed, waited on. No office, no devotion, no watching was irksome to her, as it regarded
him. She would sit apart from us and watch him; she would weep for joy to think that he was
hers. She erected a temple for him in the depth of her being, and each faculty was a priestess
vowed to his service. Sometimes she might be wayward and capricious; but her repentance was
bitter, her return entire, and even this inequality of temper suited him who was not formed
by nature to float idly down the stream of life.

During the first year of their marriage, Perdita presented Raymond with a lovely girl. It was
curious to trace in this miniature model the very traits of its father. The same half-disdainful
lips and smile of triumph, the same intelligent eyes, the same brow and chestnut hair; her
very hands and taper fingers resembled his. How very dear she was to Perdita! In progress of
time, I also became a father, and our little darlings, our playthings and delights, called
forth a thousand new and delicious feelings.

Years passed thus,--even years. Each month brought forth its successor, each year one like
to that gone by; truly, our lives were a living comment on that beautiful sentiment of Plutarch,
that "our souls have a natural inclination to love, being born as much to love, as to feel,
to reason, to understand and remember." We talked of change and active pursuits, but still
remained at Windsor, incapable of violating the charm that attached us to our secluded life.

  Pareamo aver qui tutto il ben raccolto
  Che fra mortali in piu parte si rimembra.

Now also that our children gave us occupation, we found excuses for our idleness, in the idea
of bringing them up to a more splendid career. At length our tranquillity was disturbed, and
the course of events, which for five years had flowed on in hushing tranquillity, was broken
by breakers and obstacles, that woke us from our pleasant dream.

A new Lord Protector of England was to be chosen; and, at Raymond's request, we removed to
London, to witness, and even take a part in the election. If Raymond had been united to Idris,
this post had been his stepping-stone to higher dignity; and his desire for power and fame
had been crowned with fullest measure. He had exchanged a sceptre for a lute, a kingdom for
Perdita.

Did he think of this as we journeyed up to town? I watched him, but could make but little of
him. He was particularly gay, playing with his child, and turning to sport every word that
was uttered. Perhaps he did this because he saw a cloud upon Perdita's brow. She tried to rouse
herself, but her eyes every now and then filled with tears, and she looked wistfully on Raymond
and her girl, as if fearful that some evil would betide them. And so she felt. A presentiment
of ill hung over her. She leaned from the window looking on the forest, and the turrets of
the Castle, and as these became hid by intervening objects, she passionately exclaimed--"Scenes
of happiness! scenes sacred to devoted love, when shall I see you again! and when I see ye,
shall I be still the beloved and joyous Perdita, or shall I, heart-broken and lost, wander
among your groves, the ghost of what I am!"

"Why, silly one," cried Raymond, "what is your little head pondering upon, that of a sudden
you have become so sublimely dismal? Cheer up, or I shall make you over to Idris, and call
Adrian into the carriage, who, I see by his gesture, sympathizes with my good spirits."

Adrian was on horseback; he rode up to the carriage, and his gaiety, in addition to that of
Raymond, dispelled my sister's melancholy. We entered London in the evening, and went to our
several abodes near Hyde Park.

The following morning Lord Raymond visited me early. "I come to you," he said, "only half assured
that you will assist me in my project, but resolved to go through with it, whether you concur
with me or not. Promise me secrecy however; for if you will not contribute to my success, at
least you must not baffle me."

"Well, I promise. And now---"

"And now, my dear fellow, for what are we come to London? To be present at the election of
a Protector, and to give our yea or nay for his shuffling Grace of----? or for that noisy Ryland?
Do you believe, Verney, that I brought you to town for that? No, we will have a Protector of
our own. We will set up a candidate, and ensure his success. We will nominate Adrian, and do
our best to bestow on him the power to which he is entitled by his birth, and which he merits
through his virtues.

"Do not answer; I know all your objections, and will reply to them in order. First, Whether
he will or will not consent to become a great man? Leave the task of persuasion on that point
to me; I do not ask you to assist me there. Secondly, Whether he ought to exchange his employment
of plucking blackberries, and nursing wounded partridges in the forest, for the command of
a nation? My dear Lionel, we are married men, and find employment sufficient in amusing our
wives, and dancing our children. But Adrian is alone, wifeless, childless, unoccupied. I have
long observed him. He pines for want of some interest in life. His heart, exhausted by his
early sufferings, reposes like a new-healed limb, and shrinks from all excitement. But his
understanding, his charity, his virtues, want a field for exercise and display; and we will
procure it for him. Besides, is it not a shame, that the genius of Adrian should fade from
the earth like a flower in an untrod mountain-path, fruitless? Do you think Nature composed
his surpassing machine for no purpose? Believe me, he was destined to be the author of infinite
good to his native England. Has she not bestowed on him every gift in prodigality?--birth,
wealth, talent, goodness? Does not every one love and admire him? and does he not delight singly
in such efforts as manifest his love to all? Come, I see that you are already persuaded, and
will second me when I propose him to-night in parliament."

"You have got up all your arguments in excellent order," I replied; "and, if Adrian consent,
they are unanswerable. One only condition I would make, --that you do nothing without his concurrence."

"I believe you are in the right," said Raymond; "although I had thought at first to arrange
the affair differently. Be it so. I will go instantly to Adrian; and, if he inclines to consent,
you will not destroy my labour by persuading him to return, and turn squirrel again in Windsor
Forest. Idris, you will not act the traitor towards me?"

"Trust me," replied she, "I will preserve a strict neutrality."

"For my part," said I, "I am too well convinced of the worth of our friend, and the rich harvest
of benefits that all England would reap from his Protectorship, to deprive my countrymen of
such a blessing, if he consent to bestow it on them."

In the evening Adrian visited us.--"Do you cabal also against me," said he, laughing; "and
will you make common cause with Raymond, in dragging a poor visionary from the clouds to surround
him with the fire-works and blasts of earthly grandeur, instead of heavenly rays and airs?
I thought you knew me better."

"I do know you better," I replied "than to think that you would be happy in such a situation;
but the good you would do to others may be an inducement, since the time is probably arrived
when you can put your theories into practice, and you may bring about such reformation and
change, as will conduce to that perfect system of government which you delight to portray."

"You speak of an almost-forgotten dream," said Adrian, his countenance slightly clouding as
he spoke; "the visions of my boyhood have long since faded in the light of reality; I know
now that I am not a man fitted to govern nations; sufficient for me, if I keep in wholesome
rule the little kingdom of my own mortality.

"But do not you see, Lionel, the drift of our noble friend; a drift, perhaps, unknown to himself,
but apparent to me. Lord Raymond was never born to be a drone in the hive, and to find content
in our pastoral life. He thinks, that he ought to be satisfied; he imagines, that his present
situation precludes the possibility of aggrandisement; he does not therefore, even in his own
heart, plan change for himself. But do you not see, that, under the idea of exalting me, he
is chalking out a new path for himself; a path of action from which he has long wandered?

"Let us assist him. He, the noble, the warlike, the great in every quality that can adorn the
mind and person of man; he is fitted to be the Protector of England. If I--that is, if we propose
him, he will assuredly be elected, and will find, in the functions of that high office, scope
for the towering powers of his mind. Even Perdita will rejoice. Perdita, in whom ambition was
a covered fire until she married Raymond, which event was for a time the fulfilment of her
hopes; Perdita will rejoice in the glory and advancement of her lord--and, coyly and prettily,
not be discontented with her share. In the mean time, we, the wise of the land, will return
to our Castle, and, Cincinnatus-like, take to our usual labours, until our friend shall require
our presence and assistance here."

The more Adrian reasoned upon this scheme, the more feasible it appeared. His own determination
never to enter into public life was insurmountable, and the delicacy of his health was a sufficient
argument against it. The next step was to induce Raymond to confess his secret wishes for dignity
and fame. He entered while we were speaking. The way in which Adrian had received his project
for setting him up as a candidate for the Protectorship, and his replies, had already awakened
in his mind, the view of the subject which we were now discussing. His countenance and manner
betrayed irresolution and anxiety; but the anxiety arose from a fear that we should not prosecute,
or not succeed in our idea; and his irresolution, from a doubt whether we should risk a defeat.
A few words from us decided him, and hope and joy sparkled in his eyes; the idea of embarking
in a career, so congenial to his early habits and cherished wishes, made him as before energetic
and bold. We discussed his chances, the merits of the other candidates, and the dispositions
of the voters.

After all we miscalculated. Raymond had lost much of his popularity, and was deserted by his
peculiar partizans. Absence from the busy stage had caused him to be forgotten by the people;
his former parliamentary supporters were principally composed of royalists, who had been willing
to make an idol of him when he appeared as the heir of the Earldom of Windsor; but who were
indifferent to him, when he came forward with no other attributes and distinctions than they
conceived to be common to many among themselves. Still he had many friends, admirers of his
transcendent talents; his presence in the house, his eloquence, address and imposing beauty,
were calculated to produce an electric effect. Adrian also, notwithstanding his recluse habits
and theories, so adverse to the spirit of party, had many friends, and they were easily induced
to vote for a candidate of his selection.

The Duke of----, and Mr. Ryland, Lord Raymond's old antagonist, were the other candidates.
The Duke was supported by all the aristocrats of the republic, who considered him their proper
representative. Ryland was the popular candidate; when Lord Raymond was first added to the
list, his chance of success appeared small. We retired from the debate which had followed on
his nomination: we, his nominators, mortified; he dispirited to excess. Perdita reproached
us bitterly. Her expectations had been strongly excited; she had urged nothing against our
project, on the contrary, she was evidently pleased by it; but its evident ill success changed
the current of her ideas. She felt, that, once awakened, Raymond would never return unrepining
to Windsor. His habits were unhinged; his restless mind roused from its sleep, ambition must
now be his companion through life; and if he did not succeed in his present attempt, she foresaw
that unhappiness and cureless discontent would follow. Perhaps her own disappointment added
a sting to her thoughts and words; she did not spare us, and our own reflections added to our
disquietude.

It was necessary to follow up our nomination, and to persuade Raymond to present himself to
the electors on the following evening. For a long time he was obstinate. He would embark in
a balloon; he would sail for a distant quarter of the world, where his name and humiliation
were unknown. But this was useless; his attempt was registered; his purpose published to the
world; his shame could never be erased from the memories of men. It was as well to fail at
last after a struggle, as to fly now at the beginning of his enterprise.

From the moment that he adopted this idea, he was changed. His depression and anxiety fled;
he became all life and activity. The smile of triumph shone on his countenance; determined
to pursue his object to the uttermost, his manner and expression seem ominous of the accomplishment
of his wishes. Not so Perdita. She was frightened by his gaiety, for she dreaded a greater
revulsion at the end. If his appearance even inspired us with hope, it only rendered the state
of her mind more painful. She feared to lose sight of him; yet she dreaded to remark any change
in the temper of his mind. She listened eagerly to him, yet tantalized herself by giving to
his words a meaning foreign to their true interpretation, and adverse to her hopes. She dared
not be present at the contest; yet she remained at home a prey to double solicitude. She wept
over her little girl; she looked, she spoke, as if she dreaded the occurrence of some frightful
calamity. She was half mad from the effects of uncontrollable agitation.

Lord Raymond presented himself to the house with fearless confidence and insinuating address.
After the Duke of----and Mr. Ryland had finished their speeches, he commenced. Assuredly he
had not conned his lesson; and at first he hesitated, pausing in his ideas, and in the choice
of his expressions. By degrees he warmed; his words flowed with ease, his language was full
of vigour, and his voice of persuasion. He reverted to his past life, his successes in Greece,
his favour at home. Why should he lose this, now that added years, prudence, and the pledge
which his marriage gave to his country, ought to encrease, rather than diminish his claims
to confidence? He spoke of the state of England; the necessary measures to be taken to ensure
its security, and confirm its prosperity. He drew a glowing picture of its present situation.
As he spoke, every sound was hushed, every thought suspended by intense attention. His graceful
elocution enchained the senses of his hearers. In some degree also he was fitted to reconcile
all parties. His birth pleased the aristocracy; his being the candidate recommended by Adrian,
a man intimately allied to the popular party, caused a number, who had no great reliance either
on the Duke or Mr. Ryland, to range on his side.

The contest was keen and doubtful. Neither Adrian nor myself would have been so anxious, if
our own success had depended on our exertions; but we had egged our friend on to the enterprise,
and it became us to ensure his triumph. Idris, who entertained the highest opinion of his abilities,
was warmly interested in the event: and my poor sister, who dared not hope, and to whom fear
was misery, was plunged into a fever of disquietude.

Day after day passed while we discussed our projects for the evening, and each night was occupied
by debates which offered no conclusion. At last the crisis came: the night when parliament,
which had so long delayed its choice, must decide: as the hour of twelve passed, and the new
day began, it was by virtue of the constitution dissolved, its power extinct.

We assembled at Raymond's house, we and our partizans. At half past five o'clock we proceeded
to the House. Idris endeavoured to calm Perdita; but the poor girl's agitation deprived her
of all power of self-command. She walked up and down the room,--gazed wildly when any one entered,
fancying that they might be the announcers of her doom. I must do justice to my sweet sister:
it was not for herself that she was thus agonized. She alone knew the weight which Raymond
attached to his success. Even to us he assumed gaiety and hope, and assumed them so well, that
we did not divine the secret workings of his mind. Sometimes a nervous trembling, a sharp dissonance
of voice, and momentary fits of absence revealed to Perdita the violence he did himself; but
we, intent on our plans, observed only his ready laugh, his joke intruded on all occasions,
the flow of his spirits which seemed incapable of ebb. Besides, Perdita was with him in his
retirement; she saw the moodiness that succeeded to this forced hilarity; she marked his disturbed
sleep, his painful irritability--once she had seen his tears--hers had scarce ceased to flow,
since she had beheld the big drops which disappointed pride had caused to gather in his eye,
but which pride was unable to dispel. What wonder then, that her feelings were wrought to this
pitch! I thus accounted to myself for her agitation; but this was not all, and the sequel revealed
another excuse.

One moment we seized before our departure, to take leave of our beloved girls. I had small
hope of success, and entreated Idris to watch over my sister. As I approached the latter, she
seized my hand, and drew me into another apartment; she threw herself into my arms, and wept
and sobbed bitterly and long. I tried to soothe her; I bade her hope; I asked what tremendous
consequences would ensue even on our failure. "My brother," she cried, "protector of my childhood,
dear, most dear Lionel, my fate hangs by a thread. I have you all about me now--you, the companion
of my infancy; Adrian, as dear to me as if bound by the ties of blood; Idris, the sister of
my heart, and her lovely offspring. This, O this may be the last time that you will surround
me thus!"

Abruptly she stopped, and then cried: "What have I said?--foolish false girl that I am!" She
looked wildly on me, and then suddenly calming herself, apologized for what she called her
unmeaning words, saying that she must indeed be insane, for, while Raymond lived, she must
be happy; and then, though she still wept, she suffered me tranquilly to depart. Raymond only
took her hand when he went, and looked on her expressively; she answered by a look of intelligence
and assent.

Poor girl! what she then suffered! I could never entirely forgive Raymond for the trials he
imposed on her, occasioned as they were by a selfish feeling on his part. He had schemed, if
he failed in his present attempt, without taking leave of any of us, to embark for Greece,
and never again to revisit England. Perdita acceded to his wishes; for his contentment was
the chief object of her life, the crown of her enjoyment; but to leave us all, her companions,
the beloved partners of her happiest years, and in the interim to conceal this frightful determination,
was a task that almost conquered her strength of mind. She had been employed in arranging for
their departure; she had promised Raymond during this decisive evening, to take advantage of
our absence, to go one stage of the journey, and he, after his defeat was ascertained, would
slip away from us, and join her.

Although, when I was informed of this scheme, I was bitterly offended by the small attention
which Raymond paid to my sister's feelings, I was led by reflection to consider, that he acted
under the force of such strong excitement, as to take from him the consciousness, and, consequently,
the guilt of a fault. If he had permitted us to witness his agitation, he would have been more
under the guidance of reason; but his struggles for the shew of composure, acted with such
violence on his nerves, as to destroy his power of self-command. I am convinced that, at the
worst, he would have returned from the seashore to take leave of us, and to make us the partners
of his council. But the task imposed on Perdita was not the less painful. He had extorted from
her a vow of secrecy; and her part of the drama, since it was to be performed alone, was the
most agonizing that could be devised. But to return to my narrative.

The debates had hitherto been long and loud; they had often been protracted merely for the
sake of delay. But now each seemed fearful lest the fatal moment should pass, while the choice
was yet undecided. Unwonted silence reigned in the house, the members spoke in whispers, and
the ordinary business was transacted with celerity and quietness. During the first stage of
the election, the Duke of----had been thrown out; the question therefore lay between Lord Raymond
and Mr. Ryland. The latter had felt secure of victory, until the appearance of Raymond; and,
since his name had been inserted as a candidate, he had canvassed with eagerness. He had appeared
each evening, impatience and anger marked in his looks, scowling on us from the opposite side
of St. Stephen's, as if his mere frown would cast eclipse on our hopes.

Every thing in the English constitution had been regulated for the better preservation of peace.
On the last day, two candidates only were allowed to remain; and to obviate, if possible, the
last struggle between these, a bribe was offered to him who should voluntarily resign his pretensions;
a place of great emolument and honour was given him, and his success facilitated at a future
election. Strange to say however, no instance had yet occurred, where either candidate had
had recourse to this expedient; in consequence the law had become obsolete, nor had been referred
to by any of us in our discussions. To our extreme surprise, when it was moved that we should
resolve ourselves into a committee for the election of the Lord Protector, the member who had
nominated Ryland, rose and informed us that this candidate had resigned his pretensions. His
information was at first received with silence; a confused murmur succeeded; and, when the
chairman declared Lord Raymond duly chosen, it amounted to a shout of applause and victory.
It seemed as if, far from any dread of defeat even if Mr. Ryland had not resigned, every voice
would have been united in favour of our candidate. In fact, now that the idea of contest was
dismissed, all hearts returned to their former respect and admiration of our accomplished friend.
Each felt, that England had never seen a Protector so capable of fulfilling the arduous duties
of that high office. One voice made of many voices, resounded through the chamber; it syllabled
the name of Raymond.

He entered. I was on one of the highest seats, and saw him walk up the passage to the table
of the speaker. The native modesty of his disposition conquered the joy of his triumph. He
looked round timidly; a mist seemed before his eyes. Adrian, who was beside me, hastened to
him, and jumping down the benches, was at his side in a moment. His appearance re-animated
our friend; and, when he came to speak and act, his hesitation vanished, and he shone out supreme
in majesty and victory. The former Protector tendered him the oaths, and presented him with
the insignia of office, performing the ceremonies of installation. The house then dissolved.
The chief members of the state crowded round the new magistrate, and conducted him to the palace
of government. Adrian suddenly vanished; and, by the time that Raymond's supporters were reduced
to our intimate friends merely, returned leading Idris to congratulate her friend on his success.

But where was Perdita? In securing solicitously an unobserved retreat in case of failure, Raymond
had forgotten to arrange the mode by which she was to hear of his success; and she had been
too much agitated to revert to this circumstance. When Idris entered, so far had Raymond forgotten
himself, that he asked for my sister; one word, which told of her mysterious disappearance,
recalled him. Adrian it is true had already gone to seek the fugitive, imagining that her tameless
anxiety had led her to the purlieus of the House, and that some sinister event detained her.
But Raymond, without explaining himself, suddenly quitted us, and in another moment we heard
him gallop down the street, in spite of the wind and rain that scattered tempest over the earth.
We did not know how far he had to go, and soon separated, supposing that in a short time he
would return to the palace with Perdita, and that they would not be sorry to find themselves alone.

Perdita had arrived with her child at Dartford, weeping and inconsolable. She directed everything
to be prepared for the continuance of their journey, and placing her lovely sleeping charge
on a bed, passed several hours in acute suffering. Sometimes she observed the war of elements,
thinking that they also declared against her, and listened to the pattering of the rain in
gloomy despair. Sometimes she hung over her child, tracing her resemblance to the father, and
fearful lest in after life she should display the same passions and uncontrollable impulses,
that rendered him unhappy. Again, with a gush of pride and delight, she marked in the features
of her little girl, the same smile of beauty that often irradiated Raymond's countenance. The
sight of it soothed her. She thought of the treasure she possessed in the affections of her
lord; of his accomplishments, surpassing those of his contemporaries, his genius, his devotion
to her.--Soon she thought, that all she possessed in the world, except him, might well be spared,
nay, given with delight, a propitiatory offering, to secure the supreme good she retained in
him. Soon she imagined, that fate demanded this sacrifice from her, as a mark she was devoted
to Raymond, and that it must be made with cheerfulness. She figured to herself their life in
the Greek isle he had selected for their retreat; her task of soothing him; her cares for the
beauteous Clara, her rides in his company, her dedication of herself to his consolation. The
picture then presented itself to her in such glowing colours, that she feared the reverse,
and a life of magnificence and power in London; where Raymond would no longer be hers only,
nor she the sole source of happiness to him. So far as she merely was concerned, she began
to hope for defeat; and it was only on his account that her feelings vacillated, as she heard
him gallop into the court-yard of the inn. That he should come to her alone, wetted by the
storm, careless of every thing except speed, what else could it mean, than that, vanquished
and solitary, they were to take their way from native England, the scene of shame, and hide
themselves in the myrtle groves of the Grecian isles?

In a moment she was in his arms. The knowledge of his success had become so much a part of
himself, that he forgot that it was necessary to impart it to his companion. She only felt
in his embrace a dear assurance that while he possessed her, he would not despair. "This is
kind," she cried; "this is noble, my own beloved! O fear not disgrace or lowly fortune, while
you have your Perdita; fear not sorrow, while our child lives and smiles. Let us go even where
you will; the love that accompanies us will prevent our regrets."

Locked in his embrace, she spoke thus, and cast back her head, seeking an assent to her words
in his eyes--they were sparkling with ineffable delight. "Why, my little Lady Protectress,"
said he, playfully, "what is this you say? And what pretty scheme have you woven of exile and
obscurity, while a brighter web, a gold-enwoven tissue, is that which, in truth, you ought
to contemplate?"

He kissed her brow--but the wayward girl, half sorry at his triumph, agitated by swift change
of thought, hid her face in his bosom and wept. He comforted her; he instilled into her his
own hopes and desires; and soon her countenance beamed with sympathy. How very happy were they
that night! How full even to bursting was their sense of joy!

CHAPTER VII.

HAVING seen our friend properly installed in his new office, we turned our eyes towards Windsor.
The nearness of this place to London was such, as to take away the idea of painful separation,
when we quitted Raymond and Perdita. We took leave of them in the Protectoral Palace. It was
pretty enough to see my sister enter as it were into the spirit of the drama, and endeavour
to fill her station with becoming dignity. Her internal pride and humility of manner were now
more than ever at war. Her timidity was not artificial, but arose from that fear of not being
properly appreciated, that slight estimation of the neglect of the world, which also characterized
Raymond. But then Perdita thought more constantly of others than he; and part of her bashfulness
arose from a wish to take from those around her a sense of inferiority; a feeling which never
crossed her mind. From the circumstances of her birth and education, Idris would have been
better fitted for the formulae of ceremony; but the very ease which accompanied such actions
with her, arising from habit, rendered them tedious; while, with every drawback, Perdita evidently
enjoyed her situation. She was too full of new ideas to feel much pain when we departed; she
took an affectionate leave of us, and promised to visit us soon; but she did not regret the
circumstances that caused our separation. The spirits of Raymond were unbounded; he did not
know what to do with his new got power; his head was full of plans; he had as yet decided on
none-- but he promised himself, his friends, and the world, that the aera of his Protectorship
should be signalized by some act of surpassing glory. Thus, we talked of them, and moralized,
as with diminished numbers we returned to Windsor Castle. We felt extreme delight at our escape
from political turmoil, and sought our solitude with redoubled zest. We did not want for occupation;
but my eager disposition was now turned to the field of intellectual exertion only; and hard
study I found to be an excellent medicine to allay a fever of spirit with which in indolence,
I should doubtless have been assailed. Perdita had permitted us to take Clara back with us
to Windsor; and she and my two lovely infants were perpetual sources of interest and amusement.

The only circumstance that disturbed our peace, was the health of Adrian. It evidently declined,
without any symptom which could lead us to suspect his disease, unless indeed his brightened
eyes, animated look, and flustering cheeks, made us dread consumption; but he was without pain
or fear. He betook himself to books with ardour, and reposed from study in the society he best
loved, that of his sister and myself. Sometimes he went up to London to visit Raymond, and
watch the progress of events. Clara often accompanied him in these excursions; partly that
she might see her parents, partly because Adrian delighted in the prattle, and intelligent
looks of this lovely child.

Meanwhile all went on well in London. The new elections were finished; parliament met, and
Raymond was occupied in a thousand beneficial schemes. Canals, aqueducts, bridges, stately
buildings, and various edifices for public utility, were entered upon; he was continually surrounded
by projectors and projects, which were to render England one scene of fertility and magnificence;
the state of poverty was to be abolished; men were to be transported from place to place almost
with the same facility as the Princes Houssain, Ali, and Ahmed, in the Arabian Nights. The
physical state of man would soon not yield to the beatitude of angels; disease was to be banished;
labour lightened of its heaviest burden. Nor did this seem extravagant. The arts of life, and
the discoveries of science had augmented in a ratio which left all calculation behind; food
sprung up, so to say, spontaneously--machines existed to supply with facility every want of
the population. An evil direction still survived; and men were not happy, not because they
could not, but because they would not rouse themselves to vanquish self-raised obstacles. Raymond
was to inspire them with his beneficial will, and the mechanism of society, once systematised
according to faultless rules, would never again swerve into disorder. For these hopes he abandoned
his long-cherished ambition of being enregistered in the annals of nations as a successful
warrior; laying aside his sword, peace and its enduring glories became his aim--the title he
coveted was that of the benefactor of his country.

Among other works of art in which he was engaged, he had projected the erection of a national
gallery for statues and pictures. He possessed many himself, which he designed to present to
the Republic; and, as the edifice was to be the great ornament of his Protectorship, he was
very fastidious in his choice of the plan on which it would be built. Hundreds were brought
to him and rejected. He sent even to Italy and Greece for drawings; but, as the design was
to be characterized by originality as well as by perfect beauty, his endeavours were for a
time without avail. At length a drawing came, with an address where communications might be
sent, and no artist's name affixed. The design was new and elegant, but faulty; so faulty,
that although drawn with the hand and eye of taste, it was evidently the work of one who was
not an architect. Raymond contemplated it with delight; the more he gazed, the more pleased
he was; and yet the errors multiplied under inspection. He wrote to the address given, desiring
to see the draughtsman, that such alterations might be made, as should be suggested in a consultation
between him and the original conceiver.

A Greek came. A middle-aged man, with some intelligence of manner, but with so common-place
a physiognomy, that Raymond could scarcely believe that he was the designer. He acknowledged
that he was not an architect; but the idea of the building had struck him, though he had sent
it without the smallest hope of its being accepted. He was a man of few words. Raymond questioned
him; but his reserved answers soon made him turn from the man to the drawing. He pointed out
the errors, and the alterations that he wished to be made; he offered the Greek a pencil that
he might correct the sketch on the spot; this was refused by his visitor, who said that he
perfectly understood, and would work at it at home. At length Raymond suffered him to depart.

The next day he returned. The design had been re-drawn; but many defects still remained, and
several of the instructions given had been misunderstood. "Come," said Raymond, "I yielded
to you yesterday, now comply with my request--take the pencil."

The Greek took it, but he handled it in no artist-like way; at length he said: "I must confess
to you, my Lord, that I did not make this drawing. It is impossible for you to see the real
designer; your instructions must pass through me. Condescend therefore to have patience with
my ignorance, and to explain your wishes to me; in time I am certain that you will be satisfied."

Raymond questioned vainly; the mysterious Greek would say no more. Would an architect be permitted
to see the artist? This also was refused. Raymond repeated his instructions, and the visitor
retired. Our friend resolved however not to be foiled in his wish. He suspected, that unaccustomed
poverty was the cause of the mystery, and that the artist was unwilling to be seen in the garb
and abode of want. Raymond was only the more excited by this consideration to discover him;
impelled by the interest he took in obscure talent, he therefore ordered a person skilled in
such matters, to follow the Greek the next time he came, and observe the house in which he
should enter. His emissary obeyed, and brought the desired intelligence. He had traced the
man to one of the most penurious streets in the metropolis. Raymond did not wonder, that, thus
situated, the artist had shrunk from notice, but he did not for this alter his resolve.

On the same evening, he went alone to the house named to him. Poverty, dirt, and squalid misery
characterized its appearance. Alas! thought Raymond, I have much to do before England becomes
a Paradise. He knocked; the door was opened by a string from above--the broken, wretched staircase
was immediately before him, but no person appeared; he knocked again, vainly--and then, impatient
of further delay, he ascended the dark, creaking stairs. His main wish, more particularly now
that he witnessed the abject dwelling of the artist, was to relieve one, possessed of talent,
but depressed by want. He pictured to himself a youth, whose eyes sparkled with genius, whose
person was attenuated by famine. He half feared to displease him; but he trusted that his generous
kindness would be administered so delicately, as not to excite repulse. What human heart is
shut to kindness? and though poverty, in its excess, might render the sufferer unapt to submit
to the supposed degradation of a benefit, the zeal of the benefactor must at last relax him
into thankfulness. These thoughts encouraged Raymond, as he stood at the door of the highest
room of the house. After trying vainly to enter the other apartments, he perceived just within
the threshold of this one, a pair of small Turkish slippers; the door was ajar, but all was
silent within. It was probable that the inmate was absent, but secure that he had found the
right person, our adventurous Protector was tempted to enter, to leave a purse on the table,
and silently depart. In pursuance of this idea, he pushed open the door gently--but the room
was inhabited.

Raymond had never visited the dwellings of want, and the scene that now presented itself struck
him to the heart. The floor was sunk in many places; the walls ragged and bare--the ceiling
weather-stained--a tattered bed stood in the corner; there were but two chairs in the room,
and a rough broken table, on which was a light in a tin candlestick;--yet in the midst of such
drear and heart sickening poverty, there was an air of order and cleanliness that surprised
him. The thought was fleeting; for his attention was instantly drawn towards the inhabitant
of this wretched abode. It was a female. She sat at the table; one small hand shaded her eyes
from the candle; the other held a pencil; her looks were fixed on a drawing before her, which
Raymond recognized as the design presented to him. Her whole appearance awakened his deepest
interest. Her dark hair was braided and twined in thick knots like the head-dress of a Grecian
statue; her garb was mean, but her attitude might have been selected as a model of grace. Raymond
had a confused remembrance that he had seen such a form before; he walked across the room;
she did not raise her eyes, merely asking in Romaic, who is there? "A friend," replied Raymond
in the same dialect. She looked up wondering, and he saw that it was Evadne Zaimi. Evadne,
once the idol of Adrian's affections; and who, for the sake of her present visitor, had disdained
the noble youth, and then, neglected by him she loved, with crushed hopes and a stinging sense
of misery, had returned to her native Greece. What revolution of fortune could have brought
her to England, and housed her thus?

Raymond recognized her; and his manner changed from polite beneficence to the warmest protestations
of kindness and sympathy. The sight of her, in her present situation, passed like an arrow
into his soul. He sat by her, he took her hand, and said a thousand things which breathed the
deepest spirit of compassion and affection. Evadne did not answer; her large dark eyes were
cast down, at length a tear glimmered on the lashes. "Thus," she cried, "kindness can do, what
no want, no misery ever effected; I weep." She shed indeed many tears; her head sunk unconsciously
on the shoulder of Raymond; he held her hand: he kissed her sunken tear-stained cheek. He told
her, that her sufferings were now over: no one possessed the art of consoling like Raymond;
he did not reason or declaim, but his look shone with sympathy; he brought pleasant images
before the sufferer; his caresses excited no distrust, for they arose purely from the feeling
which leads a mother to kiss her wounded child; a desire to demonstrate in every possible way
the truth of his feelings, and the keenness of his wish to pour balm into the lacerated mind
of the unfortunate. As Evadne regained her composure, his manner became even gay; he sported
with the idea of her poverty. Something told him that it was not its real evils that lay heavily
at her heart, but the debasement and disgrace attendant on it; as he talked, he divested it
of these; sometimes speaking of her fortitude with energetic praise; then, alluding to her
past state, he called her his Princess in disguise. He made her warm offers of service; she
was too much occupied by more engrossing thoughts, either to accept or reject them; at length
he left her, making a promise to repeat his visit the next day. He returned home, full of mingled
feelings, of pain excited by Evadne's wretchedness, and pleasure at the prospect of relieving
it. Some motive for which he did not account, even to himself, prevented him from relating
his adventure to Perdita.

The next day he threw such disguise over his person as a cloak afforded, and revisited Evadne.
As he went, he bought a basket of costly fruits, such as were natives of her own country, and
throwing over these various beautiful flowers, bore it himself to the miserable garret of his
friend. "Behold," cried he, as he entered, "what bird's food I have brought for my sparrow
on the house-top."

Evadne now related the tale of her misfortunes. Her father, though of high rank, had in the
end dissipated his fortune, and even destroyed his reputation and influence through a course
of dissolute indulgence. His health was impaired beyond hope of cure; and it became his earnest
wish, before he died, to preserve his daughter from the poverty which would be the portion
of her orphan state. He therefore accepted for her, and persuaded her to accede to, a proposal
of marriage, from a wealthy Greek merchant settled at Constantinople. She quitted her native
Greece; her father died; by degrees she was cut off from all the companions and ties of her youth.

The war, which about a year before the present time had broken out between Greece and Turkey,
brought about many reverses of fortune. Her husband became bankrupt, and then in a tumult and
threatened massacre on the part of the Turks, they were obliged to fly at midnight, and reached
in an open boat an English vessel under sail, which brought them immediately to this island.
The few jewels they had saved, supported them awhile. The whole strength of Evadne's mind was
exerted to support the failing spirits of her husband. Loss of property, hopelessness as to
his future prospects, the inoccupation to which poverty condemned him, combined to reduce him
to a state bordering on insanity. Five months after their arrival in England, he committed suicide.

"You will ask me," continued Evadne, "what I have done since; why I have not applied for succour
to the rich Greeks resident here; why I have not returned to my native country? My answer to
these questions must needs appear to you unsatisfactory, yet they have sufficed to lead me
on, day after day, enduring every wretchedness, rather than by such means to seek relief. Shall
the daughter of the noble, though prodigal Zaimi, appear a beggar before her compeers or inferiors--superiors
she had none. Shall I bow my head before them, and with servile gesture sell my nobility for
life? Had I a child, or any tie to bind me to existence, I might descend to this--but, as it
is--the world has been to me a harsh step-mother; fain would I leave the abode she seems to
grudge, and in the grave forget my pride, my struggles, my despair. The time will soon come;
grief and famine have already sapped the foundations of my being; a very short time, and I
shall have passed away; unstained by the crime of self-destruction, unstung by the memory of
degradation, my spirit will throw aside the miserable coil, and find such recompense as fortitude
and resignation may deserve. This may seem madness to you, yet you also have pride and resolution;
do not then wonder that my pride is tameless, my resolution unalterable."

Having thus finished her tale, and given such an account as she deemed fit, of the motives
of her abstaining from all endeavour to obtain aid from her countrymen, Evadne paused; yet
she seemed to have more to say, to which she was unable to give words. In the mean time Raymond
was eloquent. His desire of restoring his lovely friend to her rank in society, and to her
lost prosperity, animated him, and he poured forth with energy, all his wishes and intentions
on that subject. But he was checked; Evadne exacted a promise, that he should conceal from
all her friends her existence in England. "The relatives of the Earl of Windsor," said she
haughtily, "doubtless think that I injured him; perhaps the Earl himself would be the first
to acquit me, but probably I do not deserve acquittal. I acted then, as I ever must, from impulse.
This abode of penury may at least prove the disinterestedness of my conduct. No matter: I do
not wish to plead my cause before any of them, not even before your Lordship, had you not first
discovered me. The tenor of my actions will prove that I had rather die, than be a mark for
scorn--behold the proud Evadne in her tatters! look on the beggar-princess! There is aspic
venom in the thought--promise me that my secret shall not be violated by you."

Raymond promised; but then a new discussion ensued. Evadne required another engagement on his
part, that he would not without her concurrence enter into any project for her benefit, nor
himself offer relief. "Do not degrade me in my own eyes," she said; "poverty has long been
my nurse; hard-visaged she is, but honest. If dishonour, or what I conceive to be dishonour,
come near me, I am lost." Raymond adduced many arguments and fervent persuasions to overcome
her feeling, but she remained unconvinced; and, agitated by the discussion, she wildly and
passionately made a solemn vow, to fly and hide herself where he never could discover her,
where famine would soon bring death to conclude her woes, if he persisted in his to her disgracing
offers. She could support herself, she said. And then she shewed him how, by executing various
designs and paintings, she earned a pittance for her support. Raymond yielded for the present.
He felt assured, after he had for awhile humoured her self-will, that in the end friendship
and reason would gain the day.

But the feelings that actuated Evadne were rooted in the depths of her being, and were such
in their growth as he had no means of understanding. Evadne loved Raymond. He was the hero
of her imagination, the image carved by love in the unchanged texture of her heart. Seven years
ago, in her youthful prime, she had become attached to him; he had served her country against
the Turks; he had in her own land acquired that military glory peculiarly dear to the Greeks,
since they were still obliged inch by inch to fight for their security. Yet when he returned
thence, and first appeared in public life in England, her love did not purchase his, which
then vacillated between Perdita and a crown. While he was yet undecided, she had quitted England;
the news of his marriage reached her, and her hopes, poorly nurtured blossoms, withered and
fell. The glory of life was gone for her; the roseate halo of love, which had imbued every
object with its own colour, faded;--she was content to take life as it was, and to make the
best of leaden-coloured reality. She married; and, carrying her restless energy of character
with her into new scenes, she turned her thoughts to ambition, and aimed at the title and power
of Princess of Wallachia; while her patriotic feelings were soothed by the idea of the good
she might do her country, when her husband should be chief of this principality. She lived
to find ambition, as unreal a delusion as love. Her intrigues with Russia for the furtherance
of her object, excited the jealousy of the Porte, and the animosity of the Greek government.
She was considered a traitor by both, the ruin of her husband followed; they avoided death
by a timely flight, and she fell from the height of her desires to penury in England. Much
of this tale she concealed from Raymond; nor did she confess, that repulse and denial, as to
a criminal convicted of the worst of crimes, that of bringing the scythe of foreign despotism
to cut away the new springing liberties of her country, would have followed her application
to any among the Greeks.

She knew that she was the cause of her husband's utter ruin; and she strung herself to bear
the consequences. The reproaches which agony extorted; or worse, cureless, uncomplaining depression,
when his mind was sunk in a torpor, not the less painful because it was silent and moveless.
She reproached herself with the crime of his death; guilt and its punishments appeared to surround
her; in vain she endeavoured to allay remorse by the memory of her real integrity; the rest
of the world, and she among them, judged of her actions, by their consequences. She prayed
for her husband's soul; she conjured the Supreme to place on her head the crime of his self-destruction--she
vowed to live to expiate his fault.

In the midst of such wretchedness as must soon have destroyed her, one thought only was matter
of consolation. She lived in the same country, breathed the same air as Raymond. His name as
Protector was the burthen of every tongue; his achievements, projects, and magnificence, the
argument of every story. Nothing is so precious to a woman's heart as the glory and excellence
of him she loves; thus in every horror Evadne revelled in his fame and prosperity. While her
husband lived, this feeling was regarded by her as a crime, repressed, repented of. When he
died, the tide of love resumed its ancient flow, it deluged her soul with its tumultuous waves,
and she gave herself up a prey to its uncontrollable power.

But never, O, never, should he see her in her degraded state. Never should he behold her fallen,
as she deemed, from her pride of beauty, the poverty-stricken inhabitant of a garret, with
a name which had become a reproach, and a weight of guilt on her soul. But though impenetrably
veiled from him, his public office permitted her to become acquainted with all his actions,
his daily course of life, even his conversation. She allowed herself one luxury, she saw the
newspapers every day, and feasted on the praise and actions of the Protector. Not that this
indulgence was devoid of accompanying grief. Perdita's name was for ever joined with his; their
conjugal felicity was celebrated even by the authentic testimony of facts. They were continually
together, nor could the unfortunate Evadne read the monosyllable that designated his name,
without, at the same time, being presented with the image of her who was the faithful companion
of all his labours and pleasures. They, their Excellencies, met her eyes in each line, mingling
an evil potion that poisoned her very blood.

It was in the newspaper that she saw the advertisement for the design for a national gallery.
Combining with taste her remembrance of the edifices which she had seen in the east, and by
an effort of genius enduing them with unity of design, she executed the plan which had been
sent to the Protector. She triumphed in the idea of bestowing, unknown and forgotten as she
was, a benefit upon him she loved; and with enthusiastic pride looked forward to the accomplishment
of a work of hers, which, immortalized in stone, would go down to posterity stamped with the
name of Raymond. She awaited with eagerness the return of her messenger from the palace; she
listened insatiate to his account of each word, each look of the Protector; she felt bliss
in this communication with her beloved, although he knew not to whom he addressed his instructions.
The drawing itself became ineffably dear to her. He had seen it, and praised it; it was again
retouched by her, each stroke of her pencil was as a chord of thrilling music, and bore to
her the idea of a temple raised to celebrate the deepest and most unutterable emotions of her
soul. These contemplations engaged her, when the voice of Raymond first struck her ear, a voice,
once heard, never to be forgotten; she mastered her gush of feelings, and welcomed him with
quiet gentleness.

Pride and tenderness now struggled, and at length made a compromise together. She would see
Raymond, since destiny had led him to her, and her constancy and devotion must merit his friendship.
But her rights with regard to him, and her cherished independence, should not be injured by
the idea of interest, or the intervention of the complicated feelings attendant on pecuniary
obligation, and the relative situations of the benefactor, and benefited. Her mind was of uncommon
strength; she could subdue her sensible wants to her mental wishes, and suffer cold, hunger
and misery, rather than concede to fortune a contested point. Alas! that in human nature such
a pitch of mental discipline, and disdainful negligence of nature itself, should not have been
allied to the extreme of moral excellence! But the resolution that permitted her to resist
the pains of privation, sprung from the too great energy of her passions; and the concentrated
self-will of which this was a sign, was destined to destroy even the very idol, to preserve
whose respect she submitted to this detail of wretchedness.

Their intercourse continued. By degrees Evadne related to her friend the whole of her story,
the stain her name had received in Greece, the weight of sin which had accrued to her from
the death of her husband. When Raymond offered to clear her reputation, and demonstrate to
the world her real patriotism, she declared that it was only through her present sufferings
that she hoped for any relief to the stings of conscience; that, in her state of mind, diseased
as he might think it, the necessity of occupation was salutary medicine; she ended by extorting
a promise that for the space of one month he would refrain from the discussion of her interests,
engaging after that time to yield in part to his wishes. She could not disguise to herself
that any change would separate her from him; now she saw him each day. His connection with
Adrian and Perdita was never mentioned; he was to her a meteor, a companionless star, which
at its appointed hour rose in her hemisphere, whose appearance brought felicity, and which,
although it set, was never eclipsed. He came each day to her abode of penury, and his presence
transformed it to a temple redolent with sweets, radiant with heaven's own light; he partook
of her delirium. "They built a wall between them and the world"--Without, a thousand harpies
raved, remorse and misery, expecting the destined moment for their invasion. Within, was the
peace as of innocence, reckless blindless, deluding joy, hope, whose still anchor rested on
placid but unconstant water.

Thus, while Raymond had been wrapt in visions of power and fame, while he looked forward to
entire dominion over the elements and the mind of man, the territory of his own heart escaped
his notice; and from that unthought of source arose the mighty torrent that overwhelmed his
will, and carried to the oblivious sea, fame, hope, and happiness.

CHAPTER VIII.

IN the mean time what did Perdita?

During the first months of his Protectorate, Raymond and she had been inseparable; each project
was discussed with her, each plan approved by her. I never beheld any one so perfectly happy
as my sweet sister. Her expressive eyes were two stars whose beams were love; hope and light-heartedness
sat on her cloudless brow. She fed even to tears of joy on the praise and glory of her Lord;
her whole existence was one sacrifice to him, and if in the humility of her heart she felt
self-complacency, it arose from the reflection that she had won the distinguished hero of the
age, and had for years preserved him, even after time had taken from love its usual nourishment.
Her own feeling was as entire as at its birth. Five years had failed to destroy the dazzling
unreality of passion. Most men ruthlessly destroy the sacred veil, with which the female heart
is wont to adorn the idol of its affections. Not so Raymond; he was an enchanter, whose reign
was for ever undiminished; a king whose power never was suspended: follow him through the details
of common life, still the same charm of grace and majesty adorned him; nor could he be despoiled
of the innate deification with which nature had invested him. Perdita grew in beauty and excellence
under his eye; I no longer recognised my reserved abstracted sister in the fascinating and
open-hearted wife of Raymond. The genius that enlightened her countenance, was now united to
an expression of benevolence, which gave divine perfection to her beauty.

Happiness is in its highest degree the sister of goodness. Suffering and amiability may exist
together, and writers have loved to depict their conjunction; there is a human and touching
harmony in the picture. But perfect happiness is an attribute of angels; and those who possess
it, appear angelic. Fear has been said to be the parent of religion: even of that religion
is it the generator, which leads its votaries to sacrifice human victims at its altars; but
the religion which springs from happiness is a lovelier growth; the religion which makes the
heart breathe forth fervent thanksgiving, and causes us to pour out the overflowings of the
soul before the author of our being; that which is the parent of the imagination and the nurse
of poetry; that which bestows benevolent intelligence on the visible mechanism of the world,
and makes earth a temple with heaven for its cope. Such happiness, goodness, and religion inhabited
the mind of Perdita.

During the five years we had spent together, a knot of happy human beings at Windsor Castle,
her blissful lot had been the frequent theme of my sister's conversation. From early habit,
and natural affection, she selected me in preference to Adrian or Idris, to be the partner
in her overflowings of delight; perhaps, though apparently much unlike, some secret point of
resemblance, the offspring of consanguinity, induced this preference. Often at sunset, I have
walked with her, in the sober, enshadowed forest paths, and listened with joyful sympathy.
Security gave dignity to her passion; the certainty of a full return, left her with no wish
unfulfilled. The birth of her daughter, embryo copy of her Raymond, filled up the measure of
her content, and produced a sacred and indissoluble tie between them. Sometimes she felt proud
that he had preferred her to the hopes of a crown. Sometimes she remembered that she had suffered
keen anguish, when he hesitated in his choice. But this memory of past discontent only served
to enhance her present joy. What had been hardly won, was now, entirely possessed, doubly dear.
She would look at him at a distance with the same rapture, (O, far more exuberant rapture!)
that one might feel, who after the perils of a tempest, should find himself in the desired
port; she would hasten towards him, to feel more certain in his arms, the reality of her bliss.
This warmth of affection, added to the depth of her understanding, and the brilliancy of her
imagination, made her beyond words dear to Raymond.

If a feeling of dissatisfaction ever crossed her, it arose from the idea that he was not perfectly
happy. Desire of renown, and presumptuous ambition, had characterized his youth. The one he
had acquired in Greece; the other he had sacrificed to love. His intellect found sufficient
field for exercise in his domestic circle, whose members, all adorned by refinement and literature,
were many of them, like himself, distinguished by genius. Yet active life was the genuine soil
for his virtues; and he sometimes suffered tedium from the monotonous succession of events
in our retirement. Pride made him recoil from complaint; and gratitude and affection to Perdita,
generally acted as an opiate to all desire, save that of meriting her love. We all observed
the visitation of these feelings, and none regretted them so much as Perdita. Her life consecrated
to him, was a slight sacrifice to reward his choice, but was not that sufficient--Did he need
any gratification that she was unable to bestow? This was the only cloud in the azure of her
happiness.

His passage to power had been full of pain to both. He however attained his wish; he filled
the situation for which nature seemed to have moulded him. His activity was fed in wholesome
measure, without either exhaustion or satiety; his taste and genius found worthy expression
in each of the modes human beings have invented to encage and manifest the spirit of beauty;
the goodness of his heart made him never weary of conducing to the well-being of his fellow-creatures;
his magnificent spirit, and aspirations for the respect and love of mankind, now received fruition;
true, his exaltation was temporary; perhaps it were better that it should be so. Habit would
not dull his sense of the enjoyment of power; nor struggles, disappointment and defeat await
the end of that which would expire at its maturity. He determined to extract and condense all
of glory, power, and achievement, which might have resulted from a long reign, into the three
years of his Protectorate.

Raymond was eminently social. All that he now enjoyed would have been devoid of pleasure to
him, had it been unparticipated. But in Perdita he possessed all that his heart could desire.
Her love gave birth to sympathy; her intelligence made her understand him at a word; her powers
of intellect enabled her to assist and guide him. He felt her worth. During the early years
of their union, the inequality of her temper, and yet unsubdued self-will which tarnished her
character, had been a slight drawback to the fulness of his sentiment. Now that unchanged serenity,
and gentle compliance were added to her other qualifications, his respect equalled his love.
Years added to the strictness of their union. They did not now guess at, and totter on the
pathway, divining the mode to please, hoping, yet fearing the continuance of bliss. Five years
gave a sober certainty to their emotions, though it did not rob them of their etherial nature.
It had given them a child; but it had not detracted from the personal attractions of my sister.
Timidity, which in her had almost amounted to awkwardness, was exchanged for a graceful decision
of manner; frankness, instead of reserve, characterized her physiognomy; and her voice was
attuned to thrilling softness. She was now three and twenty, in the pride of womanhood, fulfilling
the precious duties of wife and mother, possessed of all her heart had ever coveted. Raymond
was ten years older; to his previous beauty, noble mien, and commanding aspect, he now added
gentlest benevolence, winning tenderness, graceful and unwearied attention to the wishes of
another.

The first secret that had existed between them was the visits of Raymond to Evadne. He had
been struck by the fortitude and beauty of the ill-fated Greek; and, when her constant tenderness
towards him unfolded itself, he asked with astonishment, by what act of his he had merited
this passionate and unrequited love. She was for a while the sole object of his reveries; and
Perdita became aware that his thoughts and time were bestowed on a subject unparticipated by
her. My sister was by nature destitute of the common feelings of anxious, petulant jealousy.
The treasure which she possessed in the affections of Raymond, was more necessary to her being,
than the life-blood that animated her veins--more truly than Othello she might say,

  To be once in doubt,
  Is--once to be resolved.

On the present occasion she did not suspect any alienation of affection; but she conjectured
that some circumstance connected with his high place, had occasioned this mystery. She was
startled and pained. She began to count the long days, and months, and years which must elapse,
before he would be restored to a private station, and unreservedly to her. She was not content
that, even for a time, he should practice concealment with her. She often repined; but her
trust in the singleness of his affection was undisturbed; and, when they were together, unchecked
by fear, she opened her heart to the fullest delight.

Time went on. Raymond, stopping mid-way in his wild career, paused suddenly to think of consequences.
Two results presented themselves in the view he took of the future. That his intercourse with
Evadne should continue a secret to, or that finally it should be discovered by Perdita. The
destitute condition, and highly wrought feelings of his friend prevented him from adverting
to the possibility of exiling himself from her. In the first event he had bidden an eternal
farewell to open-hearted converse, and entire sympathy with the companion of his life. The
veil must be thicker than that invented by Turkish jealousy; the wall higher than the unscaleable
tower of Vathek, which should conceal from her the workings of his heart, and hide from her
view the secret of his actions. This idea was intolerably painful to him. Frankness and social
feelings were the essence of Raymond's nature; without them his qualities became common-place;
without these to spread glory over his intercourse with Perdita, his vaunted exchange of a
throne for her love, was as weak and empty as the rainbow hues which vanish when the sun is
down. But there was no remedy. Genius, devotion, and courage; the adornments of his mind, and
the energies of his soul, all exerted to their uttermost stretch, could not roll back one hair's
breadth the wheel of time's chariot; that which had been was written with the adamantine pen
of reality, on the everlasting volume of the past; nor could agony and tears suffice to wash
out one iota from the act fulfilled.

But this was the best side of the question. What, if circumstance should lead Perdita to suspect,
and suspecting to be resolved? The fibres of his frame became relaxed, and cold dew stood on
his forehead, at this idea. Many men may scoff at his dread; but he read the future; and the
peace of Perdita was too dear to him, her speechless agony too certain, and too fearful, not
to unman him. His course was speedily decided upon. If the worst befell; if she learnt the
truth, he would neither stand her reproaches, or the anguish of her altered looks. He would
forsake her, England, his friends, the scenes of his youth, the hopes of coming time, he would
seek another country, and in other scenes begin life again. Having resolved on this, he became
calmer. He endeavoured to guide with prudence the steeds of destiny through the devious road
which he had chosen, and bent all his efforts the better to conceal what he could not alter.

The perfect confidence that subsisted between Perdita and him, rendered every communication
common between them. They opened each other's letters, even as, until now, the inmost fold
of the heart of each was disclosed to the other. A letter came unawares, Perdita read it. Had
it contained confirmation, she must have been annihilated. As it was, trembling, cold, and
pale, she sought Raymond. He was alone, examining some petitions lately presented. She entered
silently, sat on a sofa opposite to him, and gazed on him with a look of such despair, that
wildest shrieks and dire moans would have been tame exhibitions of misery, compared to the
living incarnation of the thing itself exhibited by her.

At first he did not take his eyes from the papers; when he raised them, he was struck by the
wretchedness manifest on her altered cheek; for a moment he forgot his own acts and fears,
and asked with consternation--"Dearest girl, what is the matter; what has happened?"

"Nothing," she replied at first; "and yet not so," she continued, hurrying on in her speech;
"you have secrets, Raymond; where have you been lately, whom have you seen, what do you conceal
from me?--why am I banished from your confidence? Yet this is not it--I do not intend to entrap
you with questions--one will suffice--am I completely a wretch?"

With trembling hand she gave him the paper, and sat white and motionless looking at him while
he read it. He recognised the hand-writing of Evadne, and the colour mounted in his cheeks.
With lightning-speed he conceived the contents of the letter; all was now cast on one die;
falsehood and artifice were trifles in comparison with the impending ruin. He would either
entirely dispel Perdita's suspicions, or quit her for ever. "My dear girl," he said, "I have
been to blame; but you must pardon me. I was in the wrong to commence a system of concealment;
but I did it for the sake of sparing you pain; and each day has rendered it more difficult
for me to alter my plan. Besides, I was instigated by delicacy towards the unhappy writer of
these few lines."

Perdita gasped: "Well," she cried, "well, go on!"

"That is all--this paper tells all. I am placed in the most difficult circumstances. I have
done my best, though perhaps I have done wrong. My love for you is inviolate."

Perdita shook her head doubtingly: "It cannot be," she cried, "I know that it is not. You would
deceive me, but I will not be deceived. I have lost you, myself, my life!"

"Do you not believe me?" said Raymond haughtily.

"To believe you," she exclaimed, "I would give up all, and expire with joy, so that in death
I could feel that you were true--but that cannot be!"

"Perdita," continued Raymond, "you do not see the precipice on which you stand. You may believe
that I did not enter on my present line of conduct without reluctance and pain. I knew that
it was possible that your suspicions might be excited; but I trusted that my simple word would
cause them to disappear. I built my hope on your confidence. Do you think that I will be questioned,
and my replies disdainfully set aside? Do you think that I will be suspected, perhaps watched,
cross-questioned, and disbelieved? I am not yet fallen so low; my honour is not yet so tarnished.
You have loved me; I adored you. But all human sentiments come to an end. Let our affection
expire--but let it not be exchanged for distrust and recrimination. Heretofore we have been
friends--lovers--let us not become enemies, mutual spies. I cannot live the object of suspicion--you
cannot believe me--let us part!"

"Exactly so," cried Perdita, "I knew that it would come to this! Are we not already parted?
Does not a stream, boundless as ocean, deep as vacuum, yawn between us?"

Raymond rose, his voice was broken, his features convulsed, his manner calm as the earthquake-cradling
atmosphere, he replied: "I am rejoiced that you take my decision so philosophically. Doubtless
you will play the part of the injured wife to admiration. Sometimes you may be stung with the
feeling that you have wronged me, but the condolence of your relatives, the pity of the world,
the complacency which the consciousness of your own immaculate innocence will bestow, will
be excellent balm;--me you will never see more!"

Raymond moved towards the door. He forgot that each word he spoke was false. He personated
his assumption of innocence even to self-deception. Have not actors wept, as they pourtrayed
imagined passion? A more intense feeling of the reality of fiction possessed Raymond. He spoke
with pride; he felt injured. Perdita looked up; she saw his angry glance; his hand was on the
lock of the door. She started up, she threw herself on his neck, she gasped and sobbed; he
took her hand, and leading her to the sofa, sat down near her. Her head fell on his shoulder,
she trembled, alternate changes of fire and ice ran through her limbs: observing her emotion
he spoke with softened accents:

"The blow is given. I will not part from you in anger;--I owe you too much. I owe you six years
of unalloyed happiness. But they are passed. I will not live the mark of suspicion, the object
of jealousy. I love you too well. In an eternal separation only can either of us hope for dignity
and propriety of action. We shall not then be degraded from our true characters. Faith and
devotion have hitherto been the essence of our intercourse;--these lost, let us not cling to
the seedless husk of life, the unkernelled shell. You have your child, your brother, Idris,
Adrian"--

"And you," cried Perdita, "the writer of that letter."

Uncontrollable indignation flashed from the eyes of Raymond. He knew that this accusation at
least was false. "Entertain this belief," he cried, "hug it to your heart--make it a pillow
to your head, an opiate for your eyes --I am content. But, by the God that made me, hell is
not more false than the word you have spoken!"

Perdita was struck by the impassioned seriousness of his asseverations. She replied with earnestness,
"I do not refuse to believe you, Raymond; on the contrary I promise to put implicit faith in
your simple word. Only assure me that your love and faith towards me have never been violated;
and suspicion, and doubt, and jealousy will at once be dispersed. We shall continue as we have
ever done, one heart, one hope, one life."

"I have already assured you of my fidelity," said Raymond with disdainful coldness, "triple
assertions will avail nothing where one is despised. I will say no more; for I can add nothing
to what I have already said, to what you before contemptuously set aside. This contention is
unworthy of both of us; and I confess that I am weary of replying to charges at once unfounded
and unkind."

Perdita tried to read his countenance, which he angrily averted. There was so much of truth
and nature in his resentment, that her doubts were dispelled. Her countenance, which for years
had not expressed a feeling unallied to affection, became again radiant and satisfied. She
found it however no easy task to soften and reconcile Raymond. At first he refused to stay
to hear her. But she would not be put off; secure of his unaltered love, she was willing to
undertake any labour, use any entreaty, to dispel his anger. She obtained an hearing, he sat
in haughty silence, but he listened. She first assured him of her boundless confidence; of
this he must be conscious, since but for that she would not seek to detain him. She enumerated
their years of happiness; she brought before him past scenes of intimacy and happiness; she
pictured their future life, she mentioned their child--tears unbidden now filled her eyes.
She tried to disperse them, but they refused to be checked--her utterance was choaked. She
had not wept before. Raymond could not resist these signs of distress: he felt perhaps somewhat
ashamed of the part he acted of the injured man, he who was in truth the injurer. And then
he devoutly loved Perdita; the bend of her head, her glossy ringlets, the turn of her form
were to him subjects of deep tenderness and admiration; as she spoke, her melodious tones entered
his soul; he soon softened towards her, comforting and caressing her, and endeavouring to cheat
himself into the belief that he had never wronged her.

Raymond staggered forth from this scene, as a man might do, who had been just put to the torture,
and looked forward to when it would be again inflicted. He had sinned against his own honour,
by affirming, swearing to, a direct falsehood; true this he had palmed on a woman, and it might
therefore be deemed less base--by others--not by him;--for whom had he deceived?--his own trusting,
devoted, affectionate Perdita, whose generous belief galled him doubly, when he remembered
the parade of innocence with which it had been exacted. The mind of Raymond was not so rough
cast, nor had been so rudely handled, in the circumstance of life, as to make him proof to
these considerations--on the contrary, he was all nerve; his spirit was as a pure fire, which
fades and shrinks from every contagion of foul atmosphere: but now the contagion had become
incorporated with its essence, and the change was the more painful. Truth and falsehood, love
and hate lost their eternal boundaries, heaven rushed in to mingle with hell; while his sensitive
mind, turned to a field for such battle, was stung to madness. He heartily despised himself,
he was angry with Perdita, and the idea of Evadne was attended by all that was hideous and
cruel. His passions, always his masters, acquired fresh strength, from the long sleep in which
love had cradled them, the clinging weight of destiny bent him down; he was goaded, tortured,
fiercely impatient of that worst of miseries, the sense of remorse. This troubled state yielded
by degrees, to sullen animosity, and depression of spirits. His dependants, even his equals,
if in his present post he had any, were startled to find anger, derision, and bitterness in
one, before distinguished for suavity and benevolence of manner. He transacted public business
with distaste, and hastened from it to the solitude which was at once his bane and relief.
He mounted a fiery horse, that which had borne him forward to victory in Greece; he fatigued
himself with deadening exercise, losing the pangs of a troubled mind in animal sensation.

He slowly recovered himself; yet, at last, as one might from the effects of poison, he lifted
his head from above the vapours of fever and passion into the still atmosphere of calm reflection.
He meditated on what was best to be done. He was first struck by the space of time that had
elapsed, since madness, rather than any reasonable impulse, had regulated his actions. A month
had gone by, and during that time he had not seen Evadne. Her power, which was linked to few
of the enduring emotions of his heart, had greatly decayed. He was no longer her slave--no
longer her lover: he would never see her more, and by the completeness of his return, deserve
the confidence of Perdita.

Yet, as he thus determined, fancy conjured up the miserable abode of the Greek girl. An abode,
which from noble and lofty principle, she had refused to exchange for one of greater luxury.
He thought of the splendour of her situation and appearance when he first knew her; he thought
of her life at Constantinople, attended by every circumstance of oriental magnificence; of
her present penury, her daily task of industry, her lorn state, her faded, famine-struck cheek.
Compassion swelled his breast; he would see her once again; he would devise some plan for restoring
her to society, and the enjoyment of her rank; their separation would then follow, as a matter
of course.

Again he thought, how during this long month, he had avoided Perdita, flying from her as from
the stings of his own conscience. But he was awake now; all this should be remedied; and future
devotion erase the memory of this only blot on the serenity of their life. He became cheerful,
as he thought of this, and soberly and resolutely marked out the line of conduct he would adopt.
He remembered that he had promised Perdita to be present this very evening (the 19th of October,
anniversary of his election as Protector) at a festival given in his honour. Good augury should
this festival be of the happiness of future years. First, he would look in on Evadne; he would
not stay; but he owed her some account, some compensation for his long and unannounced absence;
and then to Perdita, to the forgotten world, to the duties of society, the splendour of rank,
the enjoyment of power.

After the scene sketched in the preceding pages, Perdita had contemplated an entire change
in the manners and conduct of Raymond. She expected freedom of communication, and a return
to those habits of affectionate intercourse which had formed the delight of her life. But Raymond
did not join her in any of her avocations. He transacted the business of the day apart from
her; he went out, she knew not whither. The pain inflicted by this disappointment was tormenting
and keen. She looked on it as a deceitful dream, and tried to throw off the consciousness of
it; but like the shirt of Nessus, it clung to her very flesh, and ate with sharp agony into
her vital principle. She possessed that (though such an assertion may appear a paradox) which
belongs to few, a capacity of happiness. Her delicate organization and creative imagination
rendered her peculiarly susceptible of pleasurable emotion. The overflowing warmth of her heart,
by making love a plant of deep root and stately growth, had attuned her whole soul to the reception
of happiness, when she found in Raymond all that could adorn love and satisfy her imagination.
But if the sentiment on which the fabric of her existence was founded, became common place
through participation, the endless succession of attentions and graceful action snapt by transfer,
his universe of love wrested from her, happiness must depart, and then be exchanged for its
opposite. The same peculiarities of character rendered her sorrows agonies; her fancy magnified
them, her sensibility made her for ever open to their renewed impression; love envenomed the
heart-piercing sting. There was neither submission, patience, nor self-abandonment in her grief;
she fought with it, struggled beneath it, and rendered every pang more sharp by resistance.
Again and again the idea recurred, that he loved another. She did him justice; she believed
that he felt a tender affection for her; but give a paltry prize to him who in some life-pending
lottery has calculated on the possession of tens of thousands, and it will disappoint him more
than a blank. The affection and amity of a Raymond might be inestimable; but, beyond that affection,
embosomed deeper than friendship, was the indivisible treasure of love. Take the sum in its
completeness, and no arithmetic can calculate its price; take from it the smallest portion,
give it but the name of parts, separate it into degrees and sections, and like the magician's
coin, the valueless gold of the mine, is turned to vilest substance. There is a meaning in
the eye of love; a cadence in its voice, an irradiation in its smile, the talisman of whose
enchantments one only can possess; its spirit is elemental, its essence single, its divinity
an unit. The very heart and soul of Raymond and Perdita had mingled, even as two mountain brooks
that join in their descent, and murmuring and sparkling flow over shining pebbles, beside starry
flowers; but let one desert its primal course, or be dammed up by choaking obstruction, and
the other shrinks in its altered banks. Perdita was sensible of the failing of the tide that
fed her life. Unable to support the slow withering of her hopes, she suddenly formed a plan,
resolving to terminate at once the period of misery, and to bring to an happy conclusion the
late disastrous events.

The anniversary was at hand of the exaltation of Raymond to the office of Protector; and it
was customary to celebrate this day by a splendid festival. A variety of feelings urged Perdita
to shed double magnificence over the scene; yet, as she arrayed herself for the evening gala,
she wondered herself at the pains she took, to render sumptuous the celebration of an event
which appeared to her the beginning of her sufferings. Woe befall the day, she thought, woe,
tears, and mourning betide the hour, that gave Raymond another hope than love, another wish
than my devotion; and thrice joyful the moment when he shall be restored to me! God knows,
I put my trust in his vows, and believe his asserted faith--but for that, I would not seek
what I am now resolved to attain. Shall two years more be thus passed, each day adding to our
alienation, each act being another stone piled on the barrier which separates us? No, my Raymond,
my only beloved, sole possession of Perdita! This night, this splendid assembly, these sumptuous
apartments, and this adornment of your tearful girl, are all united to celebrate your abdication.
Once for me, you relinquished the prospect of a crown. That was in days of early love, when
I could only hold out the hope, not the assurance of happiness. Now you have the experience
of all that I can give, the heart's devotion, taintless love, and unhesitating subjection to
you. You must choose between these and your protectorate. This, proud noble, is your last night!
Perdita has bestowed on it all of magnificent and dazzling that your heart best loves--but,
from these gorgeous rooms, from this princely attendance, from power and elevation, you must
return with to-morrow's sun to our rural abode; for I would not buy an immortality of joy,
by the endurance of one more week sister to the last.

Brooding over this plan, resolved when the hour should come, to propose, and insist upon its
accomplishment, secure of his consent, the heart of Perdita was lightened, or rather exalted.
Her cheek was flushed by the expectation of struggle; her eyes sparkled with the hope of triumph.
Having cast her fate upon a die, and feeling secure of winning, she, whom I have named as bearing
the stamp of queen of nations on her noble brow, now rose superior to humanity, and seemed
in calm power, to arrest with her finger, the wheel of destiny. She had never before looked
so supremely lovely.

We, the Arcadian shepherds of the tale, had intended to be present at this festivity, but Perdita
wrote to entreat us not to come, or to absent ourselves from Windsor; for she (though she did
not reveal her scheme to us) resolved the next morning to return with Raymond to our dear circle,
there to renew a course of life in which she had found entire felicity. Late in the evening
she entered the apartments appropriated to the festival. Raymond had quitted the palace the
night before; he had promised to grace the assembly, but he had not yet returned. Still she
felt sure that he would come at last; and the wider the breach might appear at this crisis,
the more secure she was of closing it for ever.

It was as I said, the nineteenth of October; the autumn was far advanced and dreary. The wind
howled; the half bare trees were despoiled of the remainder of their summer ornament; the state
of the air which induced the decay of vegetation, was hostile to cheerfulness or hope. Raymond
had been exalted by the determination he had made; but with the declining day his spirits declined.
First he was to visit Evadne, and then to hasten to the palace of the Protectorate. As he walked
through the wretched streets in the neighbourhood of the luckless Greek's abode, his heart
smote him for the whole course of his conduct towards her. First, his having entered into any
engagement that should permit her to remain in such a state of degradation; and then, after
a short wild dream, having left her to drear solitude, anxious conjecture, and bitter, still--disappointed
expectation. What had she done the while, how supported his absence and neglect? Light grew
dim in these close streets, and when the well known door was opened, the staircase was shrouded
in perfect night. He groped his way up, he entered the garret, he found Evadne stretched speechless,
almost lifeless on her wretched bed. He called for the people of the house, but could learn
nothing from them, except that they knew nothing. Her story was plain to him, plain and distinct
as the remorse and horror that darted their fangs into him. When she found herself forsaken
by him, she lost the heart to pursue her usual avocations; pride forbade every application
to him; famine was welcomed as the kind porter to the gates of death, within whose opening
folds she should now, without sin, quickly repose. No creature came near her, as her strength
failed.

If she died, where could there be found on record a murderer, whose cruel act might compare
with his? What fiend more wanton in his mischief, what damned soul more worthy of perdition!
But he was not reserved for this agony of self-reproach. He sent for medical assistance; the
hours passed, spun by suspense into ages; the darkness of the long autumnal night yielded to
day, before her life was secure. He had her then removed to a more commodious dwelling, and
hovered about her, again and again to assure himself that she was safe.

In the midst of his greatest suspense and fear as to the event, he remembered the festival
given in his honour, by Perdita; in his honour then, when misery and death were affixing indelible
disgrace to his name, honour to him whose crimes deserved a scaffold; this was the worst mockery.
Still Perdita would expect him; he wrote a few incoherent words on a scrap of paper, testifying
that he was well, and bade the woman of the house take it to the palace, and deliver it into
the hands of the wife of the Lord Protector. The woman, who did not know him, contemptuously
asked, how he thought she should gain admittance, particularly on a festal night, to that lady's
presence? Raymond gave her his ring to ensure the respect of the menials. Thus, while Perdita
was entertaining her guests, and anxiously awaiting the arrival of her lord, his ring was brought
her; and she was told that a poor woman had a note to deliver to her from its wearer.

The vanity of the old gossip was raised by her commission, which, after all, she did not understand,
since she had no suspicion, even now that Evadne's visitor was Lord Raymond. Perdita dreaded
a fall from his horse, or some similar accident--till the woman's answers woke other fears.
From a feeling of cunning blindly exercised, the officious, if not malignant messenger, did
not speak of Evadne's illness; but she garrulously gave an account of Raymond's frequent visits,
adding to her narration such circumstances, as, while they convinced Perdita of its truth,
exaggerated the unkindness and perfidy of Raymond. Worst of all, his absence now from the festival,
his message wholly unaccounted for, except by the disgraceful hints of the woman, appeared
the deadliest insult. Again she looked at the ring, it was a small ruby, almost heart-shaped,
which she had herself given him. She looked at the hand-writing, which she could not mistake,
and repeated to herself the words--"Do not, I charge you, I entreat you, permit your guests
to wonder at my absence:" the while the old crone going on with her talk, filled her ear with
a strange medley of truth and falsehood. At length Perdita dismissed her.

The poor girl returned to the assembly, where her presence had not been missed. She glided
into a recess somewhat obscured, and leaning against an ornamental column there placed, tried
to recover herself. Her faculties were palsied. She gazed on some flowers that stood near in
a carved vase: that morning she had arranged them, they were rare and lovely plants; even now
all aghast as she was, she observed their brilliant colours and starry shapes.--"Divine infoliations
of the spirit of beauty," she exclaimed, "Ye droop not, neither do ye mourn; the despair that
clasps my heart, has not spread contagion over you!--Why am I not a partner of your insensibility,
a sharer in your calm!"

She paused. "To my task," she continued mentally, "my guests must not perceive the reality,
either as it regards him or me. I obey; they shall not, though I die the moment they are gone.
They shall behold the antipodes of what is real--for I will appear to live--while I am--dead."
It required all her self-command, to suppress the gush of tears self-pity caused at this idea.
After many struggles, she succeeded, and turned to join the company.

All her efforts were now directed to the dissembling her internal conflict. She had to play
the part of a courteous hostess; to attend to all; to shine the focus of enjoyment and grace.
She had to do this, while in deep woe she sighed for loneliness, and would gladly have exchanged
her crowded rooms for dark forest depths, or a drear, night-enshadowed heath. But she became
gay. She could not keep in the medium, nor be, as was usual with her, placidly content. Every
one remarked her exhilaration of spirits; as all actions appear graceful in the eye of rank,
her guests surrounded her applaudingly, although there was a sharpness in her laugh, and an
abruptness in her sallies, which might have betrayed her secret to an attentive observer. She
went on, feeling that, if she had paused for a moment, the checked waters of misery would have
deluged her soul, that her wrecked hopes would raise their wailing voices, and that those who
now echoed her mirth, and provoked her repartees, would have shrunk in fear from her convulsive
despair. Her only consolation during the violence which she did herself, was to watch the motions
of an illuminated clock, and internally count the moments which must elapse before she could
be alone.

At length the rooms began to thin. Mocking her own desires, she rallied her guests on their
early departure. One by one they left her--at length she pressed the hand of her last visitor.
"How cold and damp your hand is," said her friend; "you are over fatigued, pray hasten to rest."
Perdita smiled faintly--her guest left her; the carriage rolling down the street assured the
final departure. Then, as if pursued by an enemy, as if wings had been at her feet, she flew
to her own apartment, she dismissed her attendants, she locked the doors, she threw herself
wildly on the floor, she bit her lips even to blood to suppress her shrieks, and lay long a
prey to the vulture of despair, striving not to think, while multitudinous ideas made a home
of her heart; and ideas, horrid as furies, cruel as vipers, and poured in with such swift succession,
that they seemed to jostle and wound each other, while they worked her up to madness.

At length she rose, more composed, not less miserable. She stood before a large mirror--she
gazed on her reflected image; her light and graceful dress, the jewels that studded her hair,
and encircled her beauteous arms and neck, her small feet shod in satin, her profuse and glossy
tresses, all were to her clouded brow and woe-begone countenance like a gorgeous frame to a
dark tempest-pourtraying picture. "Vase am I," she thought, "vase brimful of despair's direst
essence. Farewell, Perdita! farewell, poor girl! never again will you see yourself thus; luxury
and wealth are no longer yours; in the excess of your poverty you may envy the homeless beggar;
most truly am I without a home! I live on a barren desart, which, wide and interminable, brings
forth neither fruit or flower; in the midst is a solitary rock, to which thou, Perdita, art
chained, and thou seest the dreary level stretch far away."

She threw open her window, which looked on the palace-garden. Light and darkness were struggling
together, and the orient was streaked by roseate and golden rays. One star only trembled in
the depth of the kindling atmosphere. The morning air blowing freshly over the dewy plants,
rushed into the heated room. "All things go on," thought Perdita, "all things proceed, decay,
and perish! When noontide has passed, and the weary day has driven her team to their western
stalls, the fires of heaven rise from the East, moving in their accustomed path, they ascend
and descend the skiey hill. When their course is fulfilled, the dial begins to cast westward
an uncertain shadow; the eye-lids of day are opened, and birds and flowers, the startled vegetation,
and fresh breeze awaken; the sun at length appears, and in majestic procession climbs the capitol
of heaven. All proceeds, changes and dies, except the sense of misery in my bursting heart.

"Ay, all proceeds and changes: what wonder then, that love has journied on to its setting,
and that the lord of my life has changed? We call the supernal lights fixed, yet they wander
about yonder plain, and if I look again where I looked an hour ago, the face of the eternal
heavens is altered. The silly moon and inconstant planets vary nightly their erratic dance;
the sun itself, sovereign of the sky, ever and anon deserts his throne, and leaves his dominion
to night and winter. Nature grows old, and shakes in her decaying limbs,--creation has become
bankrupt! What wonder then, that eclipse and death have led to destruction the light of thy
life, O Perdita!"

CHAPTER IX.

THUS sad and disarranged were the thoughts of my poor sister, when she became assured of the
infidelity of Raymond. All her virtues and all her defects tended to make the blow incurable.
Her affection for me, her brother, for Adrian and Idris, was subject as it were to the reigning
passion of her heart; even her maternal tenderness borrowed half its force from the delight
she had in tracing Raymond's features and expression in the infant's countenance. She had been
reserved and even stern in childhood; but love had softened the asperities of her character,
and her union with Raymond had caused her talents and affections to unfold themselves; the
one betrayed, and the other lost, she in some degree returned to her ancient disposition. The
concentrated pride of her nature, forgotten during her blissful dream, awoke, and with its
adder's sting pierced her heart; her humility of spirit augmented the power of the venom; she
had been exalted in her own estimation, while distinguished by his love: of what worth was
she, now that he thrust her from this preferment? She had been proud of having won and preserved
him--but another had won him from her, and her exultation was as cold as a water quenched ember.

We, in our retirement, remained long in ignorance of her misfortune. Soon after the festival
she had sent for her child, and then she seemed to have forgotten us. Adrian observed a change
during a visit that he afterward paid them; but he could not tell its extent, or divine the
cause. They still appeared in public together, and lived under the same roof. Raymond was as
usual courteous, though there was, on occasions, an unbidden haughtiness, or painful abruptness
in his manners, which startled his gentle friend; his brow was not clouded but disdain sat
on his lips, and his voice was harsh. Perdita was all kindness and attention to her lord; but
she was silent, and beyond words sad. She had grown thin and pale; and her eyes often filled
with tears. Sometimes she looked at Raymond, as if to say--That it should be so! At others
her countenance expressed--I will still do all I can to make you happy. But Adrian read with
uncertain aim the charactery of her face, and might mistake.--Clara was always with her, and
she seemed most at ease, when, in an obscure corner, she could sit holding her child's hand,
silent and lonely. Still Adrian was unable to guess the truth; he entreated them to visit us
at Windsor, and they promised to come during the following month.

It was May before they arrived: the season had decked the forest trees with leaves, and its
paths with a thousand flowers. We had notice of their intention the day before; and, early
in the morning, Perdita arrived with her daughter. Raymond would follow soon, she said; he
had been detained by business. According to Adrian's account, I had expected to find her sad;
but, on the contrary, she appeared in the highest spirits: true, she had grown thin, her eyes
were somewhat hollow, and her cheeks sunk, though tinged by a bright glow. She was delighted
to see us; caressed our children, praised their growth and improvement; Clara also was pleased
to meet again her young friend Alfred; all kinds of childish games were entered into, in which
Perdita joined. She communicated her gaiety to us, and as we amused ourselves on the Castle
Terrace, it appeared that a happier, less care-worn party could not have been assembled. "This
is better, Mamma," said Clara, "than being in that dismal London, where you often cry, and
never laugh as you do now."--"Silence, little foolish thing," replied her mother, "and remember
any one that mentions London is sent to Coventry for an hour."

Soon after, Raymond arrived. He did not join as usual in the playful spirit of the rest; but,
entering into conversation with Adrian and myself, by degrees we seceded from our companions,
and Idris and Perdita only remained with the children. Raymond talked of his new buildings;
of his plan for an establishment for the better education of the poor; as usual Adrian and
he entered into argument, and the time slipped away unperceived.

We assembled again towards evening, and Perdita insisted on our having recourse to music. She
wanted, she said, to give us a specimen of her new accomplishment; for since she had been in
London, she had applied herself to music, and sang, without much power, but with a great deal
of sweetness. We were not permitted by her to select any but light-hearted melodies; and all
the Operas of Mozart were called into service, that we might choose the most exhilarating of
his airs. Among the other transcendant attributes of Mozart's music, it possesses more than
any other that of appearing to come from the heart; you enter into the passions expressed by
him, and are transported with grief, joy, anger, or confusion, as he, our soul's master, chooses
to inspire. For some time, the spirit of hilarity was kept up; but, at length, Perdita receded
from the piano, for Raymond had joined in the trio of "Taci ingiusto core," in Don Giovanni,
whose arch entreaty was softened by him into tenderness, and thrilled her heart with memories
of the changed past; it was the same voice, the same tone, the self-same sounds and words,
which often before she had received, as the homage of love to her--no longer was it that; and
this concord of sound with its dissonance of expression penetrated her with regret and despair.
Soon after Idris, who was at the harp, turned to that passionate and sorrowful air in Figaro,
"Porgi, amor, qualche risforo," in which the deserted Countess laments the change of the faithless
Almaviva. The soul of tender sorrow is breathed forth in this strain; and the sweet voice of
Idris, sustained by the mournful chords of her instrument, added to the expression of the words.
During the pathetic appeal with which it concludes, a stifled sob attracted our attention to
Perdita, the cessation of the music recalled her to herself, she hastened out of the hall--I
followed her. At first, she seemed to wish to shun me; and then, yielding to my earnest questioning,
she threw herself on my neck, and wept aloud:--"Once more," she cried, "once more on your friendly
breast, my beloved brother, can the lost Perdita pour forth her sorrows. I had imposed a law
of silence on myself; and for months I have kept it. I do wrong in weeping now, and greater
wrong in giving words to my grief. I will not speak! Be it enough for you to know that I am
miserable--be it enough for you to know, that the painted veil of life is rent, that I sit
for ever shrouded in darkness and gloom, that grief is my sister, everlasting lamentation my mate!"

I endeavoured to console her; I did not question her! but I caressed her, assured her of my
deepest affection and my intense interest in the changes of her fortune:--"Dear words," she
cried, "expressions of love come upon my ear, like the remembered sounds of forgotten music,
that had been dear to me. They are vain, I know; how very vain in their attempt to soothe or
comfort me. Dearest Lionel, you cannot guess what I have suffered during these long months.
I have read of mourners in ancient days, who clothed themselves in sackcloth, scattered dust
upon their heads, ate their bread mingled with ashes, and took up their abode on the bleak
mountain tops, reproaching heaven and earth aloud with their misfortunes. Why this is the very
luxury of sorrow! thus one might go on from day to day contriving new extravagances, revelling
in the paraphernalia of woe, wedded to all the appurtenances of despair. Alas! I must for ever
conceal the wretchedness that consumes me. I must weave a veil of dazzling falsehood to hide
my grief from vulgar eyes, smoothe my brow, and paint my lips in deceitful smiles--even in
solitude I dare not think how lost I am, lest I become insane and rave."

The tears and agitation of my poor sister had rendered her unfit to return to the circle we
had left--so I persuaded her to let me drive her through the park; and, during the ride, I
induced her to confide the tale of her unhappiness to me, fancying that talking of it would
lighten the burthen, and certain that, if there were a remedy, it should be found and secured
to her.

Several weeks had elapsed since the festival of the anniversary, and she had been unable to
calm her mind, or to subdue her thoughts to any regular train. Sometimes she reproached herself
for taking too bitterly to heart, that which many would esteem an imaginary evil; but this
was no subject for reason; and, ignorant as she was of the motives and true conduct of Raymond,
things assumed for her even a worse appearance, than the reality warranted. He was seldom at
the palace; never, but when he was assured that his public duties would prevent his remaining
alone with Perdita. They seldom addressed each other, shunning explanation, each fearing any
communication the other might make. Suddenly, however, the manners of Raymond changed; he appeared
to desire to find opportunities of bringing about a return to kindness and intimacy with my
sister. The tide of love towards her appeared to flow again; he could never forget, how once
he had been devoted to her, making her the shrine and storehouse wherein to place every thought
and every sentiment. Shame seemed to hold him back; yet he evidently wished to establish a
renewal of confidence and affection. From the moment Perdita had sufficiently recovered herself
to form any plan of action, she had laid one down, which now she prepared to follow. She received
these tokens of returning love with gentleness; she did not shun his company; but she endeavoured
to place a barrier in the way of familiar intercourse or painful discussion, which mingled
pride and shame prevented Raymond from surmounting. He began at last to shew signs of angry
impatience, and Perdita became aware that the system she had adopted could not continue; she
must explain herself to him; she could not summon courage to speak--she wrote thus:--

"Read this letter with patience, I entreat you. It will contain no reproaches. Reproach is
indeed an idle word: for what should I reproach you?

"Allow me in some degree to explain my feeling; without that, we shall both grope in the dark,
mistaking one another; erring from the path which may conduct, one of us at least, to a more
eligible mode of life than that led by either during the last few weeks.

"I loved you--I love you--neither anger nor pride dictates these lines; but a feeling beyond,
deeper, and more unalterable than either. My affections are wounded; it is impossible to heal
them:--cease then the vain endeavour, if indeed that way your endeavours tend. Forgiveness!
Return! Idle words are these! I forgive the pain I endure; but the trodden path cannot be retraced.

"Common affection might have been satisfied with common usages. I believed that you read my
heart, and knew its devotion, its unalienable fidelity towards you. I never loved any but you.
You came the embodied image of my fondest dreams. The praise of men, power and high aspirations
attended your career. Love for you invested the world for me in enchanted light; it was no
longer the earth I trod--the earth, common mother, yielding only trite and stale repetition
of objects and circumstances old and worn out. I lived in a temple glorified by intensest sense
of devotion and rapture; I walked, a consecrated being, contemplating only your power, your
excellence;

  For O, you stood beside me, like my youth,
  Transformed for me the real to a dream,
  Cloathing the palpable and familiar
  With golden exhalations of the dawn.

'The bloom has vanished from my life'--there is no morning to this all investing night; no
rising to the set-sun of love. In those days the rest of the world was nothing to me: all other
men--I never considered nor felt what they were; nor did I look on you as one of them. Separated
from them; exalted in my heart; sole possessor of my affections; single object of my hopes,
the best half of myself.

"Ah, Raymond, were we not happy? Did the sun shine on any, who could enjoy its light with purer
and more intense bliss? It was not--it is not a common infidelity at which I repine. It is
the disunion of an whole which may not have parts; it is the carelessness with which you have
shaken off the mantle of election with which to me you were invested, and have become one among
the many. Dream not to alter this. Is not love a divinity, because it is immortal? Did not
I appear sanctified, even to myself, because this love had for its temple my heart? I have
gazed on you as you slept, melted even to tears, as the idea filled my mind, that all I possessed
lay cradled in those idolized, but mortal lineaments before me. Yet, even then, I have checked
thick-coming fears with one thought; I would not fear death, for the emotions that linked us
must be immortal.

"And now I do not fear death. I should be well pleased to close my eyes, never more to open
them again. And yet I fear it; even as I fear all things; for in any state of being linked
by the chain of memory with this, happiness would not return--even in Paradise, I must feel
that your love was less enduring than the mortal beatings of my fragile heart, every pulse
of which knells audibly,

  The funeral note
  Of love, deep buried, without resurrection.
  No--no--me miserable; for love extinct there is no resurrection!

"Yet I love you. Yet, and for ever, would I contribute all I possess to your welfare. On account
of a tattling world; for the sake of my--of our child, I would remain by you, Raymond, share
your fortunes, partake your counsel. Shall it be thus? We are no longer lovers; nor can I call
myself a friend to any; since, lost as I am, I have no thought to spare from my own wretched,
engrossing self. But it will please me to see you each day! to listen to the public voice praising
you; to keep up your paternal love for our girl; to hear your voice; to know that I am near
you, though you are no longer mine.

"If you wish to break the chains that bind us, say the word, and it shall be done--I will take
all the blame on myself, of harshness or unkindness, in the world's eye.

"Yet, as I have said, I should be best pleased, at least for the present, to live under the
same roof with you. When the fever of my young life is spent; when placid age shall tame the
vulture that devours me, friendship may come, love and hope being dead. May this be true? Can
my soul, inextricably linked to this perishable frame, become lethargic and cold, even as this
sensitive mechanism shall lose its youthful elasticity? Then, with lack-lustre eyes, grey hairs,
and wrinkled brow, though now the words sound hollow and meaningless, then, tottering on the
grave's extreme edge, I may be--your affectionate and true friend,

"PERDITA."

Raymond's answer was brief. What indeed could he reply to her complaints, to her griefs which
she jealously paled round, keeping out all thought of remedy. "Notwithstanding your bitter
letter," he wrote, "for bitter I must call it, you are the chief person in my estimation, and
it is your happiness that I would principally consult. Do that which seems best to you: and
if you can receive gratification from one mode of life in preference to another, do not let
me be any obstacle. I foresee that the plan which you mark out in your letter will not endure
long; but you are mistress of yourself, and it is my sincere wish to contribute as far as you
will permit me to your happiness."

"Raymond has prophesied well," said Perdita, "alas, that it should be so! our present mode
of life cannot continue long, yet I will not be the first to propose alteration. He beholds
in me one whom he has injured even unto death; and I derive no hope from his kindness; no change
can possibly be brought about even by his best intentions. As well might Cleopatra have worn
as an ornament the vinegar which contained her dissolved pearl, as I be content with the love
that Raymond can now offer me."

I own that I did not see her misfortune with the same eyes as Perdita. At all events methought
that the wound could be healed; and, if they remained together, it would be so. I endeavoured
therefore to sooth and soften her mind; and it was not until after many endeavours that I gave
up the task as impracticable. Perdita listened to me impatiently, and answered with some asperity:--"Do
you think that any of your arguments are new to me? or that my own burning wishes and intense
anguish have not suggested them all a thousand times, with far more eagerness and subtlety
than you can put into them? Lionel, you cannot understand what woman's love is. In days of
happiness I have often repeated to myself, with a grateful heart and exulting spirit, all that
Raymond sacrificed for me. I was a poor, uneducated, unbefriended, mountain girl, raised from
nothingness by him. All that I possessed of the luxuries of life came from him. He gave me
an illustrious name and noble station; the world's respect reflected from his own glory: all
this joined to his own undying love, inspired me with sensations towards him, akin to those
with which we regard the Giver of life. I gave him love only. I devoted myself to him: imperfect
creature that I was, I took myself to task, that I might become worthy of him. I watched over
my hasty temper, subdued my burning impatience of character, schooled my self-engrossing thoughts,
educating myself to the best perfection I might attain, that the fruit of my exertions might
be his happiness. I took no merit to myself for this. He deserved it all--all labour, all devotion,
all sacrifice; I would have toiled up a scaleless Alp, to pluck a flower that would please
him. I was ready to quit you all, my beloved and gifted companions, and to live only with him,
for him. I could not do otherwise, even if I had wished; for if we are said to have two souls,
he was my better soul, to which the other was a perpetual slave. One only return did he owe
me, even fidelity. I earned that; I deserved it. Because I was mountain bred, unallied to the
noble and wealthy, shall he think to repay me by an empty name and station? Let him take them
back; without his love they are nothing to me. Their only merit in my eyes was that they were his."

Thus passionately Perdita ran on. When I adverted to the question of their entire separation,
she replied: "Be it so! One day the period will arrive; I know it, and feel it. But in this
I am a coward. This imperfect companionship, and our masquerade of union, are strangely dear
to me. It is painful, I allow, destructive, impracticable. It keeps up a perpetual fever in
my veins; it frets my immedicable wound; it is instinct with poison. Yet I must cling to it;
perhaps it will kill me soon, and thus perform a thankful office."

In the mean time, Raymond had remained with Adrian and Idris. He was naturally frank; the continued
absence of Perdita and myself became remarkable; and Raymond soon found relief from the constraint
of months, by an unreserved confidence with his two friends. He related to them the situation
in which he had found Evadne. At first, from delicacy to Adrian he concealed her name; but
it was divulged in the course of his narrative, and her former lover heard with the most acute
agitation the history of her sufferings. Idris had shared Perdita's ill opinion of the Greek;
but Raymond's account softened and interested her. Evadne's constancy, fortitude, even her
ill-fated and ill-regulated love, were matter of admiration and pity; especially when, from
the detail of the events of the nineteenth of October, it was apparent that she preferred suffering
and death to any in her eyes degrading application for the pity and assistance of her lover.
Her subsequent conduct did not diminish this interest. At first, relieved from famine and the
grave, watched over by Raymond with the tenderest assiduity, with that feeling of repose peculiar
to convalescence, Evadne gave herself up to rapturous gratitude and love. But reflection returned
with health. She questioned him with regard to the motives which had occasioned his critical
absence. She framed her enquiries with Greek subtlety; she formed her conclusions with the
decision and firmness peculiar to her disposition. She could not divine, that the breach which
she had occasioned between Raymond and Perdita was already irreparable: but she knew, that
under the present system it would be widened each day, and that its result must be to destroy
her lover's happiness, and to implant the fangs of remorse in his heart. From the moment that
she perceived the right line of conduct, she resolved to adopt it, and to part from Raymond
for ever. Conflicting passions, long-cherished love, and self-inflicted disappointment, made
her regard death alone as sufficient refuge for her woe. But the same feelings and opinions
which had before restrained her, acted with redoubled force; for she knew that the reflection
that he had occasioned her death, would pursue Raymond through life, poisoning every enjoyment,
clouding every prospect. Besides, though the violence of her anguish made life hateful, it
had not yet produced that monotonous, lethargic sense of changeless misery which for the most
part produces suicide. Her energy of character induced her still to combat with the ills of
life; even those attendant on hopeless love presented themselves, rather in the shape of an
adversary to be overcome, than of a victor to whom she must submit. Besides, she had memories
of past tenderness to cherish, smiles, words, and even tears, to con over, which, though remembered
in desertion and sorrow, were to be preferred to the forgetfulness of the grave. It was impossible
to guess at the whole of her plan. Her letter to Raymond gave no clue for discovery; it assured
him, that she was in no danger of wanting the means of life; she promised in it to preserve
herself, and some future day perhaps to present herself to him in a station not unworthy of
her. She then bade him, with the eloquence of despair and of unalterable love, a last farewell.

All these circumstances were now related to Adrian and Idris. Raymond then lamented the cureless
evil of his situation with Perdita. He declared, notwithstanding her harshness, he even called
it coldness, that he loved her. He had been ready once with the humility of a penitent, and
the duty of a vassal, to surrender himself to her; giving up his very soul to her tutelage,
to become her pupil, her slave, her bondsman. She had rejected these advances; and the time
for such exuberant submission, which must be founded on love and nourished by it, was now passed.
Still all his wishes and endeavours were directed towards her peace, and his chief discomfort
arose from the perception that he exerted himself in vain. If she were to continue inflexible
in the line of conduct she now pursued, they must part. The combinations and occurrences of
this senseless mode of intercourse were maddening to him. Yet he would not propose the separation.
He was haunted by the fear of causing the death of one or other of the beings implicated in
these events; and he could not persuade himself to undertake to direct the course of events,
lest, ignorant of the land he traversed, he should lead those attached to the car into irremediable
ruin.

After a discussion on this subject, which lasted for several hours, he took leave of his friends,
and returned to town, unwilling to meet Perdita before us, conscious, as we all must be, of
the thoughts uppermost in the minds of both. Perdita prepared to follow him with her child.
Idris endeavoured to persuade her to remain. My poor sister looked at the counsellor with affright.
She knew that Raymond had conversed with her; had he instigated this request?--was this to
be the prelude to their eternal separation?--I have said, that the defects of her character
awoke and acquired vigour from her unnatural position. She regarded with suspicion the invitation
of Idris; she embraced me, as if she were about to be deprived of my affection also: calling
me her more than brother, her only friend, her last hope, she pathetically conjured me not
to cease to love her; and with encreased anxiety she departed for London, the scene and cause
of all her misery.

The scenes that followed, convinced her that she had not yet fathomed the obscure gulph into
which she had plunged. Her unhappiness assumed every day a new shape; every day some unexpected
event seemed to close, while in fact it led onward, the train of calamities which now befell her.

The selected passion of the soul of Raymond was ambition. Readiness of talent, a capacity of
entering into, and leading the dispositions of men; earnest desire of distinction were the
awakeners and nurses of his ambition. But other ingredients mingled with these, and prevented
him from becoming the calculating, determined character, which alone forms a successful hero.
He was obstinate, but not firm; benevolent in his first movements; harsh and reckless when
provoked. Above all, he was remorseless and unyielding in the pursuit of any object of desire,
however lawless. Love of pleasure, and the softer sensibilities of our nature, made a prominent
part of his character, conquering the conqueror; holding him in at the moment of acquisition;
sweeping away ambition's web; making him forget the toil of weeks, for the sake of one moment's
indulgence of the new and actual object of his wishes. Obeying these impulses, he had become
the husband of Perdita: egged on by them, he found himself the lover of Evadne. He had now
lost both. He had neither the ennobling self-gratulation, which constancy inspires, to console
him, nor the voluptuous sense of abandonment to a forbidden, but intoxicating passion. His
heart was exhausted by the recent events; his enjoyment of life was destroyed by the resentment
of Perdita, and the flight of Evadne; and the inflexibility of the former, set the last seal
upon the annihilation of his hopes. As long as their disunion remained a secret, he cherished
an expectation of re-awakening past tenderness in her bosom; now that we were all made acquainted
with these occurrences, and that Perdita, by declaring her resolves to others, in a manner
pledged herself to their accomplishment, he gave up the idea of re-union as futile, and sought
only, since he was unable to influence her to change, to reconcile himself to the present state
of things. He made a vow against love and its train of struggles, disappointment and remorse,
and sought in mere sensual enjoyment, a remedy for the injurious inroads of passion.

Debasement of character is the certain follower of such pursuits. Yet this consequence would
not have been immediately remarkable, if Raymond had continued to apply himself to the execution
of his plans for the public benefit, and the fulfilling his duties as Protector. But, extreme
in all things, given up to immediate impressions, he entered with ardour into this new pursuit
of pleasure, and followed up the incongruous intimacies occasioned by it without reflection
or foresight. The council-chamber was deserted; the crowds which attended on him as agents
to his various projects were neglected. Festivity, and even libertinism, became the order of
the day.

Perdita beheld with affright the encreasing disorder. For a moment she thought that she could
stem the torrent, and that Raymond could be induced to hear reason from her.--Vain hope! The
moment of her influence was passed. He listened with haughtiness, replied disdainfully; and,
if in truth, she succeeded in awakening his conscience, the sole effect was that he sought
an opiate for the pang in oblivious riot. With the energy natural to her, Perdita then endeavoured
to supply his place. Their still apparent union permitted her to do much; but no woman could,
in the end, present a remedy to the encreasing negligence of the Protector; who, as if seized
with a paroxysm of insanity, trampled on all ceremony, all order, all duty, and gave himself
up to license.

Reports of these strange proceedings reached us, and we were undecided what method to adopt
to restore our friend to himself and his country, when Perdita suddenly appeared among us.
She detailed the progress of the mournful change, and entreated Adrian and myself to go up
to London, and endeavour to remedy the encreasing evil:--"Tell him," she cried, "tell Lord
Raymond, that my presence shall no longer annoy him. That he need not plunge into this destructive
dissipation for the sake of disgusting me, and causing me to fly. This purpose is now accomplished;
he will never see me more. But let me, it is my last entreaty, let me in the praises of his
countrymen and the prosperity of England, find the choice of my youth justified."

During our ride up to town, Adrian and I discussed and argued upon Raymond's conduct, and his
falling off from the hopes of permanent excellence on his part, which he had before given us
cause to entertain. My friend and I had both been educated in one school, or rather I was his
pupil in the opinion, that steady adherence to principle was the only road to honour; a ceaseless
observance of the laws of general utility, the only conscientious aim of human ambition. But
though we both entertained these ideas, we differed in their application. Resentment added
also a sting to my censure; and I reprobated Raymond's conduct in severe terms. Adrian was
more benign, more considerate. He admitted that the principles that I laid down were the best;
but he denied that they were the only ones. Quoting the text, there are many mansions in my
father's house, he insisted that the modes of becoming good or great, varied as much as the
dispositions of men, of whom it might be said, as of the leaves of the forest, there were no
two alike.

We arrived in London at about eleven at night. We conjectured, notwithstanding what we had
heard, that we should find Raymond in St. Stephen's: thither we sped. The chamber was full--but
there was no Protector; and there was an austere discontent manifest on the countenances of
the leaders, and a whispering and busy tattle among the underlings, not less ominous. We hastened
to the palace of the Protectorate. We found Raymond in his dining room with six others: the
bottle was being pushed about merrily, and had made considerable inroads on the understanding
of one or two. He who sat near Raymond was telling a story, which convulsed the rest with laughter.

Raymond sat among them, though while he entered into the spirit of the hour, his natural dignity
never forsook him. He was gay, playful, fascinating--but never did he overstep the modesty
of nature, or the respect due to himself, in his wildest sallies. Yet I own, that considering
the task which Raymond had taken on himself as Protector of England, and the cares to which
it became him to attend, I was exceedingly provoked to observe the worthless fellows on whom
his time was wasted, and the jovial if not drunken spirit which seemed on the point of robbing
him of his better self. I stood watching the scene, while Adrian flitted like a shadow in among
them, and, by a word and look of sobriety, endeavoured to restore order in the assembly. Raymond
expressed himself delighted to see him, declaring that he should make one in the festivity
of the night.

This action of Adrian provoked me. I was indignant that he should sit at the same table with
the companions of Raymond--men of abandoned characters, or rather without any, the refuse of
high-bred luxury, the disgrace of their country. "Let me entreat Adrian," I cried, "not to
comply: rather join with me in endeavouring to withdraw Lord Raymond from this scene, and restore
him to other society."

"My good fellow," said Raymond, "this is neither the time nor place for the delivery of a moral
lecture: take my word for it that my amusements and society are not so bad as you imagine.
We are neither hypocrites or fools --for the rest, 'Dost thou think because thou art virtuous,
there shall be no more cakes and ale?'"

I turned angrily away: "Verney," said Adrian, "you are very cynical: sit down; or if you will
not, perhaps, as you are not a frequent visitor, Lord Raymond will humour you, and accompany
us, as we had previously agreed upon, to parliament."

Raymond looked keenly at him; he could read benignity only in his gentle lineaments; he turned
to me, observing with scorn my moody and stern demeanour. "Come," said Adrian, "I have promised
for you, enable me to keep my engagement. Come with us."--Raymond made an uneasy movement,
and laconically replied--"I won't!"

The party in the mean time had broken up. They looked at the pictures, strolled into the other
apartments, talked of billiards, and one by one vanished. Raymond strode angrily up and down
the room. I stood ready to receive and reply to his reproaches. Adrian leaned against the wall.
"This is infinitely ridiculous," he cried, "if you were school-boys, you could not conduct
yourselves more unreasonably."

"You do not understand," said Raymond. "This is only part of a system:--a scheme of tyranny
to which I will never submit. Because I am Protector of England, am I to be the only slave
in its empire? My privacy invaded, my actions censured, my friends insulted? But I will get
rid of the whole together.--Be you witnesses," and he took the star, insignia of office, from
his breast, and threw it on the table. "I renounce my office, I abdicate my power--assume it
who will!"---

"Let him assume it," exclaimed Adrian, "who can pronounce himself, or whom the world will pronounce
to be your superior. There does not exist the man in England with adequate presumption. Know
yourself, Raymond, and your indignation will cease; your complacency return. A few months ago,
whenever we prayed for the prosperity of our country, or our own, we at the same time prayed
for the life and welfare of the Protector, as indissolubly linked to it. Your hours were devoted
to our benefit, your ambition was to obtain our commendation. You decorated our towns with
edifices, you bestowed on us useful establishments, you gifted the soil with abundant fertility.
The powerful and unjust cowered at the steps of your judgment-seat, and the poor and oppressed
arose like morn-awakened flowers under the sunshine of your protection.

"Can you wonder that we are all aghast and mourn, when this appears changed? But, come, this
splenetic fit is already passed; resume your functions; your partizans will hail you; your
enemies be silenced; our love, honour, and duty will again be manifested towards you. Master
yourself, Raymond, and the world is subject to you."

"All this would be very good sense, if addressed to another," replied Raymond, moodily, "con
the lesson yourself, and you, the first peer of the land, may become its sovereign. You the
good, the wise, the just, may rule all hearts. But I perceive, too soon for my own happiness,
too late for England's good, that I undertook a task to which I am unequal. I cannot rule myself.
My passions are my masters; my smallest impulse my tyrant. Do you think that I renounced the
Protectorate (and I have renounced it) in a fit of spleen? By the God that lives, I swear never
to take up that bauble again; never again to burthen myself with the weight of care and misery,
of which that is the visible sign.

"Once I desired to be a king. It was in the hey-day of youth, in the pride of boyish folly.
I knew myself when I renounced it. I renounced it to gain --no matter what--for that also I
have lost. For many months I have submitted to this mock majesty--this solemn jest. I am its
dupe no longer. I will be free.

"I have lost that which adorned and dignified my life; that which linked me to other men. Again
I am a solitary man; and I will become again, as in my early years, a wanderer, a soldier of
fortune. My friends, for Verney, I feel that you are my friend, do not endeavour to shake my
resolve. Perdita, wedded to an imagination, careless of what is behind the veil, whose charactery
is in truth faulty and vile, Perdita has renounced me. With her it was pretty enough to play
a sovereign's part; and, as in the recesses of your beloved forest we acted masques, and imagined
ourselves Arcadian shepherds, to please the fancy of the moment--so was I content, more for
Perdita's sake than my own, to take on me the character of one of the great ones of the earth;
to lead her behind the scenes of grandeur, to vary her life with a short act of magnificence
and power. This was to be the colour; love and confidence the substance of our existence. But
we must live, and not act our lives; pursuing the shadow, I lost the reality--now I renounce both.

"Adrian, I am about to return to Greece, to become again a soldier, perhaps a conqueror. Will
you accompany me? You will behold new scenes; see a new people; witness the mighty struggle
there going forward between civilization and barbarism; behold, and perhaps direct the efforts
of a young and vigorous population, for liberty and order. Come with me. I have expected you.
I waited for this moment; all is prepared;--will you accompany me?"

"I will," replied Adrian. "Immediately?"

"To-morrow if you will."

"Reflect!" I cried.

"Wherefore?" asked Raymond--"My dear fellow, I have done nothing else than reflect on this
step the live-long summer; and be assured that Adrian has condensed an age of reflection into
this little moment. Do not talk of reflection; from this moment I abjure it; this is my only
happy moment during a long interval of time. I must go, Lionel--the Gods will it; and I must.
Do not endeavour to deprive me of my companion, the out-cast's friend.

"One word more concerning unkind, unjust Perdita. For a time, I thought that, by watching a
complying moment, fostering the still warm ashes, I might relume in her the flame of love.
It is more cold within her, than a fire left by gypsies in winter-time, the spent embers crowned
by a pyramid of snow. Then, in endeavouring to do violence to my own disposition, I made all
worse than before. Still I think, that time, and even absence, may restore her to me. Remember,
that I love her still, that my dearest hope is that she will again be mine. I know, though
she does not, how false the veil is which she has spread over the reality--do not endeavour
to rend this deceptive covering, but by degrees withdraw it. Present her with a mirror, in
which she may know herself; and, when she is an adept in that necessary but difficult science,
she will wonder at her present mistake, and hasten to restore to me, what is by right mine,
her forgiveness, her kind thoughts, her love."

CHAPTER X.

AFTER these events, it was long before we were able to attain any degree of composure. A moral
tempest had wrecked our richly freighted vessel, and we, remnants of the diminished crew, were
aghast at the losses and changes which we had undergone. Idris passionately loved her brother,
and could ill brook an absence whose duration was uncertain; his society was dear and necessary
to me--I had followed up my chosen literary occupations with delight under his tutorship and
assistance; his mild philosophy, unerring reason, and enthusiastic friendship were the best
ingredient, the exalted spirit of our circle; even the children bitterly regretted the loss
of their kind playfellow. Deeper grief oppressed Perdita. In spite of resentment, by day and
night she figured to herself the toils and dangers of the wanderers. Raymond absent, struggling
with difficulties, lost to the power and rank of the Protectorate, exposed to the perils of
war, became an object of anxious interest; not that she felt any inclination to recall him,
if recall must imply a return to their former union. Such return she felt to be impossible;
and while she believed it to be thus, and with anguish regretted that so it should be, she
continued angry and impatient with him, who occasioned her misery. These perplexities and regrets
caused her to bathe her pillow with nightly tears, and to reduce her in person and in mind
to the shadow of what she had been. She sought solitude, and avoided us when in gaiety and
unrestrained affection we met in a family circle. Lonely musings, interminable wanderings,
and solemn music were her only pastimes. She neglected even her child; shutting her heart against
all tenderness, she grew reserved towards me, her first and fast friend.

I could not see her thus lost, without exerting myself to remedy the evil --remediless I knew,
if I could not in the end bring her to reconcile herself to Raymond. Before he went I used
every argument, every persuasion to induce her to stop his journey. She answered the one with
a gush of tears--telling me that to be persuaded--life and the goods of life were a cheap exchange.
It was not will that she wanted, but the capacity; again and again she declared, it were as
easy to enchain the sea, to put reins on the wind's viewless courses, as for her to take truth
for falsehood, deceit for honesty, heartless communion for sincere, confiding love. She answered
my reasonings more briefly, declaring with disdain, that the reason was hers; and, until I
could persuade her that the past could be unacted, that maturity could go back to the cradle,
and that all that was could become as though it had never been, it was useless to assure her
that no real change had taken place in her fate. And thus with stern pride she suffered him
to go, though her very heart-strings cracked at the fulfilling of the act, which rent from
her all that made life valuable.

To change the scene for her, and even for ourselves, all unhinged by the cloud that had come
over us, I persuaded my two remaining companions that it were better that we should absent
ourselves for a time from Windsor. We visited the north of England, my native Ulswater, and
lingered in scenes dear from a thousand associations. We lengthened our tour into Scotland,
that we might see Loch Katrine and Loch Lomond; thence we crossed to Ireland, and passed several
weeks in the neighbourhood of Killarney. The change of scene operated to a great degree as
I expected; after a year's absence, Perdita returned in gentler and more docile mood to Windsor.
The first sight of this place for a time unhinged her. Here every spot was distinct with associations
now grown bitter. The forest glades, the ferny dells, and lawny uplands, the cultivated and
cheerful country spread around the silver pathway of ancient Thames, all earth, air, and wave,
took up one choral voice, inspired by memory, instinct with plaintive regret.

But my essay towards bringing her to a saner view of her own situation, did not end here. Perdita
was still to a great degree uneducated. When first she left her peasant life, and resided with
the elegant and cultivated Evadne, the only accomplishment she brought to any perfection was
that of painting, for which she had a taste almost amounting to genius. This had occupied her
in her lonely cottage, when she quitted her Greek friend's protection. Her pallet and easel
were now thrown aside; did she try to paint, thronging recollections made her hand tremble,
her eyes fill with tears. With this occupation she gave up almost every other; and her mind
preyed upon itself almost to madness.

For my own part, since Adrian had first withdrawn me from my selvatic wilderness to his own
paradise of order and beauty, I had been wedded to literature. I felt convinced that however
it might have been in former times, in the present stage of the world, no man's faculties could
be developed, no man's moral principle be enlarged and liberal, without an extensive acquaintance
with books. To me they stood in the place of an active career, of ambition, and those palpable
excitements necessary to the multitude. The collation of philosophical opinions, the study
of historical facts, the acquirement of languages, were at once my recreation, and the serious
aim of my life. I turned author myself. My productions however were sufficiently unpretending;
they were confined to the biography of favourite historical characters, especially those whom
I believed to have been traduced, or about whom clung obscurity and doubt.

As my authorship increased, I acquired new sympathies and pleasures. I found another and a
valuable link to enchain me to my fellow-creatures; my point of sight was extended, and the
inclinations and capacities of all human beings became deeply interesting to me. Kings have
been called the fathers of their people. Suddenly I became as it were the father of all mankind.
Posterity became my heirs. My thoughts were gems to enrich the treasure house of man's intellectual
possessions; each sentiment was a precious gift I bestowed on them. Let not these aspirations
be attributed to vanity. They were not expressed in words, nor even reduced to form in my own
mind; but they filled my soul, exalting my thoughts, raising a glow of enthusiasm, and led
me out of the obscure path in which I before walked, into the bright noon-enlightened highway
of mankind, making me, citizen of the world, a candidate for immortal honors, an eager aspirant
to the praise and sympathy of my fellow men.

No one certainly ever enjoyed the pleasures of composition more intensely than I. If I left
the woods, the solemn music of the waving branches, and the majestic temple of nature, I sought
the vast halls of the Castle, and looked over wide, fertile England, spread beneath our regal
mount, and listened the while to inspiring strains of music. At such times solemn harmonies
or spirit-stirring airs gave wings to my lagging thoughts, permitting them, methought, to penetrate
the last veil of nature and her God, and to display the highest beauty in visible expression
to the understandings of men. As the music went on, my ideas seemed to quit their mortal dwelling
house; they shook their pinions and began a flight, sailing on the placid current of thought,
filling the creation with new glory, and rousing sublime imagery that else had slept voiceless.
Then I would hasten to my desk, weave the new-found web of mind in firm texture and brilliant
colours, leaving the fashioning of the material to a calmer moment.

But this account, which might as properly belong to a former period of my life as to the present
moment, leads me far afield. It was the pleasure I took in literature, the discipline of mind
I found arise from it, that made me eager to lead Perdita to the same pursuits. I began with
light hand and gentle allurement; first exciting her curiosity, and then satisfying it in such
a way as might occasion her, at the same time that she half forgot her sorrows in occupation,
to find in the hours that succeeded a reaction of benevolence and toleration.

Intellectual activity, though not directed towards books, had always been my sister's characteristic.
It had been displayed early in life, leading her out to solitary musing among her native mountains,
causing her to form innumerous combinations from common objects, giving strength to her perceptions,
and swiftness to their arrangement. Love had come, as the rod of the master-prophet, to swallow
up every minor propensity. Love had doubled all her excellencies, and placed a diadem on her
genius. Was she to cease to love? Take the colours and odour from the rose, change the sweet
nutriment of mother's milk to gall and poison; as easily might you wean Perdita from love.
She grieved for the loss of Raymond with an anguish, that exiled all smile from her lips, and
trenched sad lines on her brow of beauty. But each day seemed to change the nature of her suffering,
and every succeeding hour forced her to alter (if so I may style it) the fashion of her soul's
mourning garb. For a time music was able to satisfy the cravings of her mental hunger, and
her melancholy thoughts renewed themselves in each change of key, and varied with every alteration
in the strain. My schooling first impelled her towards books; and, if music had been the food
of sorrow, the productions of the wise became its medicine. The acquisition of unknown languages
was too tedious an occupation, for one who referred every expression to the universe within,
and read not, as many do, for the mere sake of filling up time; but who was still questioning
herself and her author, moulding every idea in a thousand ways, ardently desirous for the discovery
of truth in every sentence. She sought to improve her understanding; mechanically her heart
and dispositions became soft and gentle under this benign discipline. After awhile she discovered,
that amidst all her newly acquired knowledge, her own character, which formerly she fancied
that she thoroughly understood, became the first in rank among the terrae incognitae, the pathless
wilds of a country that had no chart. Erringly and strangely she began the task of self-examination
with self-condemnation. And then again she became aware of her own excellencies, and began
to balance with juster scales the shades of good and evil. I, who longed beyond words, to restore
her to the happiness it was still in her power to enjoy, watched with anxiety the result of
these internal proceedings.

But man is a strange animal. We cannot calculate on his forces like that of an engine; and,
though an impulse draw with a forty-horse power at what appears willing to yield to one, yet
in contempt of calculation the movement is not effected. Neither grief, philosophy, nor love
could make Perdita think with mildness of the dereliction of Raymond. She now took pleasure
in my society; towards Idris she felt and displayed a full and affectionate sense of her worth--she
restored to her child in abundant measure her tenderness and care. But I could discover, amidst
all her repinings, deep resentment towards Raymond, and an unfading sense of injury, that plucked
from me my hope, when I appeared nearest to its fulfilment. Among other painful restrictions,
she has occasioned it to become a law among us, never to mention Raymond's name before her.
She refused to read any communications from Greece, desiring me only to mention when any arrived,
and whether the wanderers were well. It was curious that even little Clara observed this law
towards her mother. This lovely child was nearly eight years of age. Formerly she had been
a light-hearted infant, fanciful, but gay and childish. After the departure of her father,
thought became impressed on her young brow. Children, unadepts in language, seldom find words
to express their thoughts, nor could we tell in what manner the late events had impressed themselves
on her mind. But certainly she had made deep observations while she noted in silence the changes
that passed around her. She never mentioned her father to Perdita, she appeared half afraid
when she spoke of him to me, and though I tried to draw her out on the subject, and to dispel
the gloom that hung about her ideas concerning him, I could not succeed. Yet each foreign post-day
she watched for the arrival of letters--knew the post mark, and watched me as I read. I found
her often poring over the article of Greek intelligence in the newspaper.

There is no more painful sight than that of untimely care in children, and it was particularly
observable in one whose disposition had heretofore been mirthful. Yet there was so much sweetness
and docility about Clara, that your admiration was excited; and if the moods of mind are calculated
to paint the cheek with beauty, and endow motions with grace, surely her contemplations must
have been celestial; since every lineament was moulded into loveliness, and her motions were
more harmonious than the elegant boundings of the fawns of her native forest. I sometimes expostulated
with Perdita on the subject of her reserve; but she rejected my counsels, while her daughter's
sensibility excited in her a tenderness still more passionate.

After the lapse of more than a year, Adrian returned from Greece.

When our exiles had first arrived, a truce was in existence between the Turks and Greeks; a
truce that was as sleep to the mortal frame, signal of renewed activity on waking. With the
numerous soldiers of Asia, with all of warlike stores, ships, and military engines, that wealth
and power could command, the Turks at once resolved to crush an enemy, which creeping on by
degrees, had from their stronghold in the Morea, acquired Thrace and Macedonia, and had led
their armies even to the gates of Constantinople, while their extensive commercial relations
gave every European nation an interest in their success. Greece prepared for a vigorous resistance;
it rose to a man; and the women, sacrificing their costly ornaments, accoutred their sons for
the war, and bade them conquer or die with the spirit of the Spartan mother. The talents and
courage of Raymond were highly esteemed among the Greeks. Born at Athens, that city claimed
him for her own, and by giving him the command of her peculiar division in the army, the commander-in-chief
only possessed superior power. He was numbered among her citizens, his name was added to the
list of Grecian heroes. His judgment, activity, and consummate bravery, justified their choice.
The Earl of Windsor became a volunteer under his friend.

"It is well," said Adrian, "to prate of war in these pleasant shades, and with much ill-spent
oil make a show of joy, because many thousand of our fellow-creatures leave with pain this
sweet air and natal earth. I shall not be suspected of being averse to the Greek cause; I know
and feel its necessity; it is beyond every other a good cause. I have defended it with my sword,
and was willing that my spirit should be breathed out in its defence; freedom is of more worth
than life, and the Greeks do well to defend their privilege unto death. But let us not deceive
ourselves. The Turks are men; each fibre, each limb is as feeling as our own, and every spasm,
be it mental or bodily, is as truly felt in a Turk's heart or brain, as in a Greek's. The last
action at which I was present was the taking of ----. The Turks resisted to the last, the garrison
perished on the ramparts, and we entered by assault. Every breathing creature within the walls
was massacred. Think you, amidst the shrieks of violated innocence and helpless infancy, I
did not feel in every nerve the cry of a fellow being? They were men and women, the sufferers,
before they were Mahometans, and when they rise turbanless from the grave, in what except their
good or evil actions will they be the better or worse than we? Two soldiers contended for a
girl, whose rich dress and extreme beauty excited the brutal appetites of these wretches, who,
perhaps good men among their families, were changed by the fury of the moment into incarnated
evils. An old man, with a silver beard, decrepid and bald, he might be her grandfather, interposed
to save her; the battle axe of one of them clove his skull. I rushed to her defence, but rage
made them blind and deaf; they did not distinguish my Christian garb or heed my words--words
were blunt weapons then, for while war cried "havoc," and murder gave fit echo, how could I--

  Turn back the tide of ills, relieving wrong
  With mild accost of soothing eloquence?

One of the fellows, enraged at my interference, struck me with his bayonet in the side, and
I fell senseless.

"This wound will probably shorten my life, having shattered a frame, weak of itself. But I
am content to die. I have learnt in Greece that one man, more or less, is of small import,
while human bodies remain to fill up the thinned ranks of the soldiery; and that the identity
of an individual may be overlooked, so that the muster roll contain its full numbers. All this
has a different effect upon Raymond. He is able to contemplate the ideal of war, while I am
sensible only to its realities. He is a soldier, a general. He can influence the blood-thirsty
war-dogs, while I resist their propensities vainly. The cause is simple. Burke has said that,
'in all bodies those who would lead, must also, in a considerable degree, follow.' --I cannot
follow; for I do not sympathize in their dreams of massacre and glory--to follow and to lead
in such a career, is the natural bent of Raymond's mind. He is always successful, and bids
fair, at the same time that he acquires high name and station for himself, to secure liberty,
probably extended empire, to the Greeks."

Perdita's mind was not softened by this account. He, she thought, can be great and happy without
me. Would that I also had a career! Would that I could freight some untried bark with all my
hopes, energies, and desires, and launch it forth into the ocean of life--bound for some attainable
point, with ambition or pleasure at the helm! But adverse winds detain me on shore; like Ulysses,
I sit at the water's edge and weep. But my nerveless hands can neither fell the trees, nor
smooth the planks. Under the influence of these melancholy thoughts, she became more than ever
in love with sorrow. Yet Adrian's presence did some good; he at once broke through the law
of silence observed concerning Raymond. At first she started from the unaccustomed sound; soon
she got used to it and to love it, and she listened with avidity to the account of his achievements.
Clara got rid also of her restraint; Adrian and she had been old playfellows; and now, as they
walked or rode together, he yielded to her earnest entreaty, and repeated, for the hundredth
time, some tale of her father's bravery, munificence, or justice.

Each vessel in the mean time brought exhilarating tidings from Greece. The presence of a friend
in its armies and councils made us enter into the details with enthusiasm; and a short letter
now and then from Raymond told us how he was engrossed by the interests of his adopted country.
The Greeks were strongly attached to their commercial pursuits, and would have been satisfied
with their present acquisitions, had not the Turks roused them by invasion. The patriots were
victorious; a spirit of conquest was instilled; and already they looked on Constantinople as
their own. Raymond rose perpetually in their estimation; but one man held a superior command
to him in their armies. He was conspicuous for his conduct and choice of position in a battle
fought in the plains of Thrace, on the banks of the Hebrus, which was to decide the fate of
Islam. The Mahometans were defeated, and driven entirely from the country west of this river.
The battle was sanguinary, the loss of the Turks apparently irreparable; the Greeks, in losing
one man, forgot the nameless crowd strewed upon the bloody field, and they ceased to value
themselves on a victory, which cost them-- Raymond.

At the battle of Makri he had led the charge of cavalry, and pursued the fugitives even to
the banks of the Hebrus. His favourite horse was found grazing by the margin of the tranquil
river. It became a question whether he had fallen among the unrecognized; but no broken ornament
or stained trapping betrayed his fate. It was suspected that the Turks, finding themselves
possessed of so illustrious a captive, resolved to satisfy their cruelty rather than their
avarice, and fearful of the interference of England, had come to the determination of concealing
for ever the cold-blooded murder of the soldier they most hated and feared in the squadrons
of their enemy.

Raymond was not forgotten in England. His abdication of the Protectorate had caused an unexampled
sensation; and, when his magnificent and manly system was contrasted with the narrow views
of succeeding politicians, the period of his elevation was referred to with sorrow. The perpetual
recurrence of his name, joined to most honourable testimonials, in the Greek gazettes, kept
up the interest he had excited. He seemed the favourite child of fortune, and his untimely
loss eclipsed the world, and shewed forth the remnant of mankind with diminished lustre. They
clung with eagerness to the hope held out that he might yet be alive. Their minister at Constantinople
was urged to make the necessary perquisitions, and should his existence be ascertained, to
demand his release. It was to be hoped that their efforts would succeed, and that though now
a prisoner, the sport of cruelty and the mark of hate, he would be rescued from danger and
restored to the happiness, power, and honour which he deserved.

The effect of this intelligence upon my sister was striking. She never for a moment credited
the story of his death; she resolved instantly to go to Greece. Reasoning and persuasion were
thrown away upon her; she would endure no hindrance, no delay. It may be advanced for a truth,
that, if argument or entreaty can turn any one from a desperate purpose, whose motive and end
depends on the strength of the affections only, then it is right so to turn them, since their
docility shews, that neither the motive nor the end were of sufficient force to bear them through
the obstacles attendant on their undertaking. If, on the contrary, they are proof against expostulation,
this very steadiness is an omen of success; and it becomes the duty of those who love them,
to assist in smoothing the obstructions in their path. Such sentiments actuated our little
circle. Finding Perdita immoveable, we consulted as to the best means of furthering her purpose.
She could not go alone to a country where she had no friends, where she might arrive only to
hear the dreadful news, which must overwhelm her with grief and remorse. Adrian, whose health
had always been weak, now suffered considerable aggravation of suffering from the effects of
his wound. Idris could not endure to leave him in this state; nor was it right either to quit
or take with us a young family for a journey of this description. I resolved at length to accompany
Perdita. The separation from my Idris was painful--but necessity reconciled us to it in some
degree: necessity and the hope of saving Raymond, and restoring him again to happiness and
Perdita. No delay was to ensue. Two days after we came to our determination, we set out for
Portsmouth, and embarked. The season was May, the weather stormless; we were promised a prosperous
voyage. Cherishing the most fervent hopes, embarked on the waste ocean, we saw with delight
the receding shore of Britain, and on the wings of desire outspeeded our well filled sails
towards the South. The light curling waves bore us onward, and old ocean smiled at the freight
of love and hope committed to his charge; it stroked gently its tempestuous plains, and the
path was smoothed for us. Day and night the wind right aft, gave steady impulse to our keel--nor
did rough gale, or treacherous sand, or destructive rock interpose an obstacle between my sister
and the land which was to restore her to her first beloved,

  Her dear heart's confessor--a heart within that heart.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER I.

DURING this voyage, when on calm evenings we conversed on deck, watching the glancing of the
waves and the changeful appearances of the sky, I discovered the total revolution that the
disasters of Raymond had wrought in the mind of my sister. Were they the same waters of love,
which, lately cold and cutting as ice, repelling as that, now loosened from their frozen chains,
flowed through the regions of her soul in gushing and grateful exuberance? She did not believe
that he was dead, but she knew that he was in danger, and the hope of assisting in his liberation,
and the idea of soothing by tenderness the ills that he might have undergone, elevated and
harmonized the late jarring element of her being. I was not so sanguine as she as to the result
of our voyage. She was not sanguine, but secure; and the expectation of seeing the lover she
had banished, the husband, friend, heart's companion from whom she had long been alienated,
wrapt her senses in delight, her mind in placidity. It was beginning life again; it was leaving
barren sands for an abode of fertile beauty; it was a harbour after a tempest, an opiate after
sleepless nights, a happy waking from a terrible dream.

Little Clara accompanied us; the poor child did not well understand what was going forward.
She heard that we were bound for Greece, that she would see her father, and now, for the first
time, she prattled of him to her mother.

On landing at Athens we found difficulties encrease upon us: nor could the storied earth or
balmy atmosphere inspire us with enthusiasm or pleasure, while the fate of Raymond was in jeopardy.
No man had ever excited so strong an interest in the public mind; this was apparent even among
the phlegmatic English, from whom he had long been absent. The Athenians had expected their
hero to return in triumph; the women had taught their children to lisp his name joined to thanksgiving;
his manly beauty, his courage, his devotion to their cause, made him appear in their eyes almost
as one of the ancient deities of the soil descended from their native Olympus to defend them.
When they spoke of his probable death and certain captivity, tears streamed from their eyes;
even as the women of Syria sorrowed for Adonis, did the wives and mothers of Greece lament
our English Raymond--Athens was a city of mourning.

All these shews of despair struck Perdita with affright. With that sanguine but confused expectation,
which desire engendered while she was at a distance from reality, she had formed an image in
her mind of instantaneous change, when she should set her foot on Grecian shores. She fancied
that Raymond would already be free, and that her tender attentions would come to entirely obliterate
even the memory of his mischance. But his fate was still uncertain; she began to fear the worst,
and to feel that her soul's hope was cast on a chance that might prove a blank. The wife and
lovely child of Lord Raymond became objects of intense interest in Athens. The gates of their
abode were besieged, audible prayers were breathed for his restoration; all these circumstances
added to the dismay and fears of Perdita.

My exertions were unremitted: after a time I left Athens, and joined the army stationed at
Kishan in Thrace. Bribery, threats, and intrigue, soon discovered the secret that Raymond was
alive, a prisoner, suffering the most rigorous confinement and wanton cruelties. We put in
movement every impulse of policy and money to redeem him from their hands.

The impatience of my sister's disposition now returned on her, awakened by repentance, sharpened
by remorse. The very beauty of the Grecian climate, during the season of spring, added torture
to her sensations. The unexampled loveliness of the flower-clad earth--the genial sunshine
and grateful shade--the melody of the birds--the majesty of the woods-- the splendour of the
marble ruins--the clear effulgence of the stars by night--the combination of all that was exciting
and voluptuous in this transcending land, by inspiring a quicker spirit of life and an added
sensitiveness to every articulation of her frame, only gave edge to the poignancy of her grief.
Each long hour was counted, and "He suffers" was the burthen of all her thoughts. She abstained
from food; she lay on the bare earth, and, by such mimickry of his enforced torments, endeavoured
to hold communion with his distant pain. I remembered in one of her harshest moments a quotation
of mine had roused her to anger and disdain. "Perdita," I had said, "some day you will discover
that you have done wrong in again casting Raymond on the thorns of life. When disappointment
has sullied his beauty, when a soldier's hardships have bent his manly form, and loneliness
made even triumph bitter to him, then you will repent; and regret for the irreparable change

  "will move
  In hearts all rocky now, the late remorse of love."[1]

The stinging "remorse of love" now pierced her heart. She accused herself of his journey to
Greece--his dangers--his imprisonment. She pictured to herself the anguish of his solitude;
she remembered with what eager delight he had in former days made her the partner of his joyful
hopes-- with what grateful affection he received her sympathy in his cares. She called to mind
how often he had declared that solitude was to him the greatest of all evils, and how death
itself was to him more full of fear and pain when he pictured to himself a lonely grave. "My
best girl," he had said, "relieves me from these phantasies. United to her, cherished in her
dear heart, never again shall I know the misery of finding myself alone. Even if I die before
you, my Perdita, treasure up my ashes till yours may mingle with mine. It is a foolish sentiment
for one who is not a materialist, yet, methinks, even in that dark cell, I may feel that my
inanimate dust mingles with yours, and thus have a companion in decay." In her resentful mood,
these expressions had been remembered with acrimony and disdain; they visited her in her softened
hour, taking sleep from her eyes, all hope of rest from her uneasy mind.

Two months passed thus, when at last we obtained a promise of Raymond's release. Confinement
and hardship had undermined his health; the Turks feared an accomplishment of the threats of
the English government, if he died under their hands; they looked upon his recovery as impossible;
they delivered him up as a dying man, willingly making over to us the rites of burial.

He came by sea from Constantinople to Athens. The wind, favourable to him, blew so strongly
in shore, that we were unable, as we had at first intended, to meet him on his watery road.
The watchtower of Athens was besieged by inquirers, each sail eagerly looked out for; till
on the first of May the gallant frigate bore in sight, freighted with treasure more invaluable
than the wealth which, piloted from Mexico, the vexed Pacific swallowed, or that was conveyed
over its tranquil bosom to enrich the crown of Spain. At early dawn the vessel was discovered
bearing in shore; it was conjectured that it would cast anchor about five miles from land.
The news spread through Athens, and the whole city poured out at the gate of the Piraeus, down
the roads, through the vineyards, the olive woods and plantations of fig-trees, towards the
harbour. The noisy joy of the populace, the gaudy colours of their dress, the tumult of carriages
and horses, the march of soldiers intermixed, the waving of banners and sound of martial music
added to the high excitement of the scene; while round us reposed in solemn majesty the relics
of antient time. To our right the Acropolis rose high, spectatress of a thousand changes, of
ancient glory, Turkish slavery, and the restoration of dear-bought liberty; tombs and cenotaphs
were strewed thick around, adorned by ever renewing vegetation; the mighty dead hovered over
their monuments, and beheld in our enthusiasm and congregated numbers a renewal of the scenes
in which they had been the actors. Perdita and Clara rode in a close carriage; I attended them
on horseback. At length we arrived at the harbour; it was agitated by the outward swell of
the sea; the beach, as far could be discerned, was covered by a moving multitude, which, urged
by those behind toward the sea, again rushed back as the heavy waves with sullen roar burst
close to them. I applied my glass, and could discern that the frigate had already cast anchor,
fearful of the danger of approaching nearer to a lee shore: a boat was lowered; with a pang
I saw that Raymond was unable to descend the vessel's side; he was let down in a chair, and
lay wrapt in cloaks at the bottom of the boat.

I dismounted, and called to some sailors who were rowing about the harbour to pull up, and
take me into their skiff; Perdita at the same moment alighted from her carriage--she seized
my arm--"Take me with you," she cried; she was trembling and pale; Clara clung to her--"You
must not," I said, "the sea is rough--he will soon be here--do you not see his boat?" The little
bark to which I had beckoned had now pulled up; before I could stop her, Perdita, assisted
by the sailors was in it--Clara followed her mother--a loud shout echoed from the crowd as
we pulled out of the inner harbour; while my sister at the prow, had caught hold of one of
the men who was using a glass, asking a thousand questions, careless of the spray that broke
over her, deaf, sightless to all, except the little speck that, just visible on the top of
the waves, evidently neared. We approached with all the speed six rowers could give; the orderly
and picturesque dress of the soldiers on the beach, the sounds of exulting music, the stirring
breeze and waving flags, the unchecked exclamations of the eager crowd, whose dark looks and
foreign garb were purely eastern; the sight of temple-crowned rock, the white marble of the
buildings glittering in the sun, and standing in bright relief against the dark ridge of lofty
mountains beyond; the near roar of the sea, the splash of oars, and dash of spray, all steeped
my soul in a delirium, unfelt, unimagined in the common course of common life. Trembling, I
was unable to continue to look through the glass with which I had watched the motion of the
crew, when the frigate's boat had first been launched. We rapidly drew near, so that at length
the number and forms of those within could be discerned; its dark sides grew big, and the splash
of its oars became audible: I could distinguish the languid form of my friend, as he half raised
himself at our approach.

Perdita's questions had ceased; she leaned on my arm, panting with emotions too acute for tears--our
men pulled alongside the other boat. As a last effort, my sister mustered her strength, her
firmness; she stepped from one boat to the other, and then with a shriek she sprang towards
Raymond, knelt at his side, and glueing her lips to the hand she seized, her face shrouded
by her long hair, gave herself up to tears.

Raymond had somewhat raised himself at our approach, but it was with difficulty that he exerted
himself even thus much. With sunken cheek and hollow eyes, pale and gaunt, how could I recognize
the beloved of Perdita? I continued awe-struck and mute--he looked smilingly on the poor girl;
the smile was his. A day of sun-shine falling on a dark valley, displays its before hidden
characteristics; and now this smile, the same with which he first spoke love to Perdita, with
which he had welcomed the protectorate, playing on his altered countenance, made me in my heart's
core feel that this was Raymond.

He stretched out to me his other hand; I discerned the trace of manacles on his bared wrist.
I heard my sister's sobs, and thought, happy are women who can weep, and in a passionate caress
disburthen the oppression of their feelings; shame and habitual restraint hold back a man.
I would have given worlds to have acted as in days of boyhood, have strained him to my breast,
pressed his hand to my lips, and wept over him; my swelling heart choked me; the natural current
would not be checked; the big rebellious tears gathered in my eyes; I turned aside, and they
dropped in the sea--they came fast and faster;--yet I could hardly be ashamed, for I saw that
the rough sailors were not unmoved, and Raymond's eyes alone were dry from among our crew.
He lay in that blessed calm which convalescence always induces, enjoying in secure tranquillity
his liberty and re-union with her whom he adored. Perdita at length subdued her burst of passion,
and rose, --she looked round for Clara; the child frightened, not recognizing her father, and
neglected by us, had crept to the other end of the boat; she came at her mother's call. Perdita
presented her to Raymond; her first words were: "Beloved, embrace our child!"

"Come hither, sweet one," said her father, "do you not know me?" she knew his voice, and cast
herself in his arms with half bashful but uncontrollable emotion.

Perceiving the weakness of Raymond, I was afraid of ill consequences from the pressure of the
crowd on his landing. But they were awed as I had been, at the change of his appearance. The
music died away, the shouts abruptly ended; the soldiers had cleared a space in which a carriage
was drawn up. He was placed in it; Perdita and Clara entered with him, and his escort closed
round it; a hollow murmur, akin to the roaring of the near waves, went through the multitude;
they fell back as the carriage advanced, and fearful of injuring him they had come to welcome,
by loud testimonies of joy, they satisfied themselves with bending in a low salaam as the carriage
passed; it went slowly along the road of the Piraeus; passed by antique temple and heroic tomb,
beneath the craggy rock of the citadel. The sound of the waves was left behind; that of the
multitude continued at intervals, supressed and hoarse; and though, in the city, the houses,
churches, and public buildings were decorated with tapestry and banners--though the soldiery
lined the streets, and the inhabitants in thousands were assembled to give him hail, the same
solemn silence prevailed, the soldiery presented arms, the banners vailed, many a white hand
waved a streamer, and vainly sought to discern the hero in the vehicle, which, closed and encompassed
by the city guards, drew him to the palace allotted for his abode.

Raymond was weak and exhausted, yet the interest he perceived to be excited on his account,
filled him with proud pleasure. He was nearly killed with kindness. It is true, the populace
retained themselves; but there arose a perpetual hum and bustle from the throng round the palace,
which added to the noise of fireworks, the frequent explosion of arms, the tramp to and fro
of horsemen and carriages, to which effervescence he was the focus, retarded his recovery.
So we retired awhile to Eleusis, and here rest and tender care added each day to the strength
of our invalid. The zealous attention of Perdita claimed the first rank in the causes which
induced his rapid recovery; but the second was surely the delight he felt in the affection
and good will of the Greeks. We are said to love much those whom we greatly benefit. Raymond
had fought and conquered for the Athenians; he had suffered, on their account, peril, imprisonment,
and hardship; their gratitude affected him deeply, and he inly vowed to unite his fate for
ever to that of a people so enthusiastically devoted to him.

Social feeling and sympathy constituted a marked feature in my disposition. In early youth,
the living drama acted around me, drew me heart and soul into its vortex. I was now conscious
of a change. I loved, I hoped, I enjoyed; but there was something besides this. I was inquisitive
as to the internal principles of action of those around me: anxious to read their thoughts
justly, and for ever occupied in divining their inmost mind. All events, at the same time that
they deeply interested me, arranged themselves in pictures before me. I gave the right place
to every personage in the groupe, the just balance to every sentiment. This undercurrent of
thought, often soothed me amidst distress, and even agony. It gave ideality to that, from which,
taken in naked truth, the soul would have revolted: it bestowed pictorial colours on misery
and disease, and not unfrequently relieved me from despair in deplorable changes. This faculty,
or instinct, was now rouzed. I watched the re-awakened devotion of my sister; Clara's timid,
but concentrated admiration of her father, and Raymond's appetite for renown, and sensitiveness
to the demonstrations of affection of the Athenians. Attentively perusing this animated volume,
I was the less surprised at the tale I read on the new-turned page.

The Turkish army were at this time besieging Rodosto; and the Greeks, hastening their preparations,
and sending each day reinforcements, were on the eve of forcing the enemy to battle. Each people
looked on the coming struggle as that which would be to a great degree decisive; as, in case
of victory, the next step would be the siege of Constantinople by the Greeks. Raymond, being
somewhat recovered, prepared to re-assume his command in the army.

Perdita did not oppose herself to his determination. She only stipulated to be permitted to
accompany him. She had set down no rule of conduct for herself; but for her life she could
not have opposed his slightest wish, or do other than acquiesce cheerfully in all his projects.
One word, in truth, had alarmed her more than battles or sieges, during which she trusted Raymond's
high command would exempt him from danger. That word, as yet it was not more to her, was PLAGUE.
This enemy to the human race had begun early in June to raise its serpent-head on the shores
of the Nile; parts of Asia, not usually subject to this evil, were infected. It was in Constantinople;
but as each year that city experienced a like visitation, small attention was paid to those
accounts which declared more people to have died there already, than usually made up the accustomed
prey of the whole of the hotter months. However it might be, neither plague nor war could prevent
Perdita from following her lord, or induce her to utter one objection to the plans which he
proposed. To be near him, to be loved by him, to feel him again her own, was the limit of her
desires. The object of her life was to do him pleasure: it had been so before, but with a difference.
In past times, without thought or foresight she had made him happy, being so herself, and in
any question of choice, consulted her own wishes, as being one with his. Now she sedulously
put herself out of the question, sacrificing even her anxiety for his health and welfare to
her resolve not to oppose any of his desires. Love of the Greek people, appetite for glory,
and hatred of the barbarian government under which he had suffered even to the approach of
death, stimulated him. He wished to repay the kindness of the Athenians, to keep alive the
splendid associations connected with his name, and to eradicate from Europe a power which,
while every other nation advanced in civilization, stood still, a monument of antique barbarism.
Having effected the reunion of Raymond and Perdita, I was eager to return to England; but his
earnest request, added to awakening curiosity, and an indefinable anxiety to behold the catastrophe,
now apparently at hand, in the long drawn history of Grecian and Turkish warfare, induced me
to consent to prolong until the autumn, the period of my residence in Greece.

As soon as the health of Raymond was sufficiently re-established, he prepared to join the Grecian
camp, hear Kishan, a town of some importance, situated to the east of the Hebrus; in which
Perdita and Clara were to remain until the event of the expected battle. We quitted Athens
on the 2nd of June. Raymond had recovered from the gaunt and pallid looks of fever. If I no
longer saw the fresh glow of youth on his matured countenance, if care had besieged his brow,
"And dug deep trenches in his beauty's field," 2 if his hair, slightly mingled with grey, and
his look, considerate even in its eagerness, gave signs of added years and past sufferings,
yet there was something irresistibly affecting in the sight of one, lately snatched from the
grave, renewing his career, untamed by sickness or disaster. The Athenians saw in him, not
as heretofore, the heroic boy or desperate man, who was ready to die for them; but the prudent
commander, who for their sakes was careful of his life, and could make his own warrior-propensities
second to the scheme of conduct policy might point out.

All Athens accompanied us for several miles. When he had landed a month ago, the noisy populace
had been hushed by sorrow and fear; but this was a festival day to all. The air resounded with
their shouts; their picturesque costume, and the gay colours of which it was composed, flaunted
in the sunshine; their eager gestures and rapid utterance accorded with their wild appearance.
Raymond was the theme of every tongue, the hope of each wife, mother or betrothed bride, whose
husband, child, or lover, making a part of the Greek army, were to be conducted to victory by him.

Notwithstanding the hazardous object of our journey, it was full of romantic interest, as we
passed through the vallies, and over the hills, of this divine country. Raymond was inspirited
by the intense sensations of recovered health; he felt that in being general of the Athenians,
he filled a post worthy of his ambition; and, in his hope of the conquest of Constantinople,
he counted on an event which would be as a landmark in the waste of ages, an exploit unequalled
in the annals of man; when a city of grand historic association, the beauty of whose site was
the wonder of the world, which for many hundred years had been the strong hold of the Moslems,
should be rescued from slavery and barbarism, and restored to a people illustrious for genius,
civilization, and a spirit of liberty. Perdita rested on his restored society, on his love,
his hopes and fame, even as a Sybarite on a luxurious couch; every thought was transport, each
emotion bathed as it were in a congenial and balmy element.

We arrived at Kishan on the 7th of July. The weather during our journey had been serene. Each
day, before dawn, we left our night's encampment, and watched the shadows as they retreated
from hill and valley, and the golden splendour of the sun's approach. The accompanying soldiers
received, with national vivacity, enthusiastic pleasure from the sight of beautiful nature.
The uprising of the star of day was hailed by triumphant strains, while the birds, heard by
snatches, filled up the intervals of the music. At noon, we pitched our tents in some shady
valley, or embowering wood among the mountains, while a stream prattling over pebbles induced
grateful sleep. Our evening march, more calm, was yet more delightful than the morning restlessness
of spirit. If the band played, involuntarily they chose airs of moderated passion; the farewell
of love, or lament at absence, was followed and closed by some solemn hymn, which harmonized
with the tranquil loveliness of evening, and elevated the soul to grand and religious thought.
Often all sounds were suspended, that we might listen to the nightingale, while the fire-flies
danced in bright measure, and the soft cooing of the aziolo spoke of fair weather to the travellers.
Did we pass a valley? Soft shades encompassed us, and rocks tinged with beauteous hues. If
we traversed a mountain, Greece, a living map, was spread beneath, her renowned pinnacles cleaving
the ether; her rivers threading in silver line the fertile land. Afraid almost to breathe,
we English travellers surveyed with extasy this splendid landscape, so different from the sober
hues and melancholy graces of our native scenery. When we quitted Macedonia, the fertile but
low plains of Thrace afforded fewer beauties; yet our journey continued to be interesting.
An advanced guard gave information of our approach, and the country people were quickly in
motion to do honour to Lord Raymond. The villages were decorated by triumphal arches of greenery
by day, and lamps by night; tapestry waved from the windows, the ground was strewed with flowers,
and the name of Raymond, joined to that of Greece, was echoed in the Evive of the peasant crowd.

When we arrived at Kishan, we learnt, that on hearing of the advance of Lord Raymond and his
detachment, the Turkish army had retreated from Rodosto; but meeting with a reinforcement,
they had re-trod their steps. In the meantime, Argyropylo, the Greek commander-in-chief, had
advanced, so as to be between the Turks and Rodosto; a battle, it was said, was inevitable.
Perdita and her child were to remain at Kishan. Raymond asked me, if I would not continue with
them. "Now by the fells of Cumberland," I cried, "by all of the vagabond and poacher that appertains
to me, I will stand at your side, draw my sword in the Greek cause, and be hailed as a victor
along with you!"

All the plain, from Kishan to Rodosto, a distance of sixteen leagues, was alive with troops,
or with the camp-followers, all in motion at the approach of a battle. The small garrisons
were drawn from the various towns and fortresses, and went to swell the main army. We met baggage
waggons, and many females of high and low rank returning to Fairy or Kishan, there to wait
the issue of the expected day. When we arrived at Rodosto, we found that the field had been
taken, and the scheme of the battle arranged. The sound of firing, early on the following morning,
informed us that advanced posts of the armies were engaged. Regiment after regiment advanced,
their colours flying and bands playing. They planted the cannon on the tumuli, sole elevations
in this level country, and formed themselves into column and hollow square; while the pioneers
threw up small mounds for their protection.

These then were the preparations for a battle, nay, the battle itself; far different from any
thing the imagination had pictured. We read of centre and wing in Greek and Roman history;
we fancy a spot, plain as a table, and soldiers small as chessmen; and drawn forth, so that
the most ignorant of the game can discover science and order in the disposition of the forces.
When I came to the reality, and saw regiments file off to the left far out of sight, fields
intervening between the battalions, but a few troops sufficiently near me to observe their
motions, I gave up all idea of understanding, even of seeing a battle, but attaching myself
to Raymond attended with intense interest to his actions. He shewed himself collected, gallant
and imperial; his commands were prompt, his intuition of the events of the day to me miraculous.
In the mean time the cannon roared; the music lifted up its enlivening voice at intervals;
and we on the highest of the mounds I mentioned, too far off to observe the fallen sheaves
which death gathered into his storehouse, beheld the regiments, now lost in smoke, now banners
and staves peering above the cloud, while shout and clamour drowned every sound.

Early in the day, Argyropylo was wounded dangerously, and Raymond assumed the command of the
whole army. He made few remarks, till, on observing through his glass the sequel of an order
he had given, his face, clouded for awhile with doubt, became radiant. "The day is ours," he
cried, "the Turks fly from the bayonet." And then swiftly he dispatched his aides-de-camp to
command the horse to fall on the routed enemy. The defeat became total; the cannon ceased to
roar; the infantry rallied, and horse pursued the flying Turks along the dreary plain; the
staff of Raymond was dispersed in various directions, to make observations, and bear commands.
Even I was dispatched to a distant part of the field.

The ground on which the battle was fought, was a level plain--so level, that from the tumuli
you saw the waving line of mountains on the wide-stretched horizon; yet the intervening space
was unvaried by the least irregularity, save such undulations as resembled the waves of the
sea. The whole of this part of Thrace had been so long a scene of contest, that it had remained
uncultivated, and presented a dreary, barren appearance. The order I had received, was to make
an observation of the direction which a detachment of the enemy might have taken, from a northern
tumulus; the whole Turkish army, followed by the Greek, had poured eastward; none but the dead
remained in the direction of my side. From the top of the mound, I looked far round--all was
silent and deserted.

The last beams of the nearly sunken sun shot up from behind the far summit of Mount Athos;
the sea of Marmora still glittered beneath its rays, while the Asiatic coast beyond was half
hid in a haze of low cloud. Many a casque, and bayonet, and sword, fallen from unnerved arms,
reflected the departing ray; they lay scattered far and near. From the east, a band of ravens,
old inhabitants of the Turkish cemeteries, came sailing along towards their harvest; the sun
disappeared. This hour, melancholy yet sweet, has always seemed to me the time when we are
most naturally led to commune with higher powers; our mortal sternness departs, and gentle
complacency invests the soul. But now, in the midst of the dying and the dead, how could a
thought of heaven or a sensation of tranquillity possess one of the murderers? During the busy
day, my mind had yielded itself a willing slave to the state of things presented to it by its
fellow-beings; historical association, hatred of the foe, and military enthusiasm had held
dominion over me. Now, I looked on the evening star, as softly and calmly it hung pendulous
in the orange hues of sunset. I turned to the corse-strewn earth; and felt ashamed of my species.
So perhaps were the placid skies; for they quickly veiled themselves in mist, and in this change
assisted the swift disappearance of twilight usual in the south; heavy masses of cloud floated
up from the south east, and red and turbid lightning shot from their dark edges; the rushing
wind disturbed the garments of the dead, and was chilled as it passed over their icy forms.
Darkness gathered round; the objects about me became indistinct, I descended from my station,
and with difficulty guided my horse, so as to avoid the slain.

Suddenly I heard a piercing shriek; a form seemed to rise from the earth; it flew swiftly towards
me, sinking to the ground again as it drew near. All this passed so suddenly, that I with difficulty
reined in my horse, so that it should not trample on the prostrate being. The dress of this
person was that of a soldier, but the bared neck and arms, and the continued shrieks discovered
a female thus disguised. I dismounted to her aid, while she, with heavy groans, and her hand
placed on her side, resisted my attempt to lead her on. In the hurry of the moment I forgot
that I was in Greece, and in my native accents endeavoured to soothe the sufferer. With wild
and terrific exclamations did the lost, dying Evadne (for it was she) recognize the language
of her lover; pain and fever from her wound had deranged her intellects, while her piteous
cries and feeble efforts to escape, penetrated me with compassion. In wild delirium she called
upon the name of Raymond; she exclaimed that I was keeping him from her, while the Turks with
fearful instruments of torture were about to take his life. Then again she sadly lamented her
hard fate; that a woman, with a woman's heart and sensibility, should be driven by hopeless
love and vacant hopes to take up the trade of arms, and suffer beyond the endurance of man
privation, labour, and pain--the while her dry, hot hand pressed mine, and her brow and lips
burned with consuming fire.

As her strength grew less, I lifted her from the ground; her emaciated form hung over my arm,
her sunken cheek rested on my breast; in a sepulchral voice she murmured:--"This is the end
of love!--Yet not the end!"-- and frenzy lent her strength as she cast her arm up to heaven:
"there is the end! there we meet again. Many living deaths have I borne for thee, O Raymond,
and now I expire, thy victim!--By my death I purchase thee-- lo! the instruments of war, fire,
the plague are my servitors. I dared, I conquered them all, till now! I have sold myself to
death, with the sole condition that thou shouldst follow me--Fire, and war, and plague, unite
for thy destruction--O my Raymond, there is no safety for thee!"

With an heavy heart I listened to the changes of her delirium; I made her a bed of cloaks;
her violence decreased and a clammy dew stood on her brow as the paleness of death succeeded
to the crimson of fever, I placed her on the cloaks. She continued to rave of her speedy meeting
with her beloved in the grave, of his death nigh at hand; sometimes she solemnly declared that
he was summoned; sometimes she bewailed his hard destiny. Her voice grew feebler, her speech
interrupted; a few convulsive movements, and her muscles relaxed, the limbs fell, no more to
be sustained, one deep sigh, and life was gone.

I bore her from the near neighbourhood of the dead; wrapt in cloaks, I placed her beneath a
tree. Once more I looked on her altered face; the last time I saw her she was eighteen; beautiful
as poet's vision, splendid as a Sultana of the East--Twelve years had past; twelve years of
change, sorrow and hardship; her brilliant complexion had become worn and dark, her limbs had
lost the roundness of youth and womanhood; her eyes had sunk deep,

    Crushed and o'erworn,
  The hours had drained her blood, and filled her brow
  With lines and wrinkles.

With shuddering horror I veiled this monument of human passion and human misery; I heaped over
her all of flags and heavy accoutrements I could find, to guard her from birds and beasts of
prey, until I could bestow on her a fitting grave. Sadly and slowly I stemmed my course from
among the heaps of slain, and, guided by the twinkling lights of the town, at length reached
Rodosto.

[1] Lord Byron's Fourth Canto of Childe Harolde. [2] Shakspeare's Sonnets.

CHAPTER II.

ON my arrival, I found that an order had already gone forth for the army to proceed immediately
towards Constantinople; and the troops which had suffered least in the battle were already
on their way. The town was full of tumult. The wound, and consequent inability of Argyropylo,
caused Raymond to be the first in command. He rode through the town, visiting the wounded,
and giving such orders as were necessary for the siege he meditated. Early in the morning the
whole army was in motion. In the hurry I could hardly find an opportunity to bestow the last
offices on Evadne. Attended only by my servant, I dug a deep grave for her at the foot of the
tree, and without disturbing her warrior shroud, I placed her in it, heaping stones upon the
grave. The dazzling sun and glare of daylight, deprived the scene of solemnity; from Evadne's
low tomb, I joined Raymond and his staff, now on their way to the Golden City.

Constantinople was invested, trenches dug, and advances made. The whole Greek fleet blockaded
it by sea; on land from the river Kyat Kbanah, near the Sweet Waters, to the Tower of Marmora,
on the shores of the Propontis, along the whole line of the ancient walls, the trenches of
the siege were drawn. We already possessed Pera; the Golden Horn itself, the city, bastioned
by the sea, and the ivy-mantled walls of the Greek emperors was all of Europe that the Mahometans
could call theirs. Our army looked on her as certain prey. They counted the garrison; it was
impossible that it should be relieved; each sally was a victory; for, even when the Turks were
triumphant, the loss of men they sustained was an irreparable injury. I rode one morning with
Raymond to the lofty mound, not far from the Top Kapou, (Cannon-gate), on which Mahmoud planted
his standard, and first saw the city. Still the same lofty domes and minarets towered above
the verdurous walls, where Constantine had died, and the Turk had entered the city. The plain
around was interspersed with cemeteries, Turk, Greek, and Armenian, with their growth of cypress
trees; and other woods of more cheerful aspect, diversified the scene. Among them the Greek
army was encamped, and their squadrons moved to and fro--now in regular march, now in swift career.

Raymond's eyes were fixed on the city. "I have counted the hours of her life," said he; "one
month, and she falls. Remain with me till then; wait till you see the cross on St. Sophia;
and then return to your peaceful glades."

"You then," I asked, "still remain in Greece?"

"Assuredly," replied Raymond. "Yet Lionel, when I say this, believe me I look back with regret
to our tranquil life at Windsor. I am but half a soldier; I love the renown, but not the trade
of war. Before the battle of Rodosto I was full of hope and spirit; to conquer there, and afterwards
to take Constantinople, was the hope, the bourne, the fulfilment of my ambition. This enthusiasm
is now spent, I know not why; I seem to myself to be entering a darksome gulph; the ardent
spirit of the army is irksome to me, the rapture of triumph null."

He paused, and was lost in thought. His serious mien recalled, by some association, the half-forgotten
Evadne to my mind, and I seized this opportunity to make enquiries from him concerning her
strange lot. I asked him, if he had ever seen among the troops any one resembling her; if since
he had returned to Greece he had heard of her?

He started at her name,--he looked uneasily on me. "Even so," he cried, "I knew you would speak
of her. Long, long I had forgotten her. Since our encampment here, she daily, hourly visits
my thoughts. When I am addressed, her name is the sound I expect: in every communication, I
imagine that she will form a part. At length you have broken the spell; tell me what you know
of her."

I related my meeting with her; the story of her death was told and re-told. With painful earnestness
he questioned me concerning her prophecies with regard to him. I treated them as the ravings
of a maniac. "No, no," he said, "do not deceive yourself,--me you cannot. She has said nothing
but what I knew before--though this is confirmation. Fire, the sword, and plague! They may
all be found in yonder city; on my head alone may they fall!"

From this day Raymond's melancholy increased. He secluded himself as much as the duties of
his station permitted. When in company, sadness would in spite of every effort steal over his
features, and he sat absent and mute among the busy crowd that thronged about him. Perdita
rejoined him, and before her he forced himself to appear cheerful, for she, even as a mirror,
changed as he changed, and if he were silent and anxious, she solicitously inquired concerning,
and endeavoured to remove the cause of his seriousness. She resided at the palace of Sweet
Waters, a summer seraglio of the Sultan; the beauty of the surrounding scenery, undefiled by
war, and the freshness of the river, made this spot doubly delightful. Raymond felt no relief,
received no pleasure from any show of heaven or earth. He often left Perdita, to wander in
the grounds alone; or in a light shallop he floated idly on the pure waters, musing deeply.
Sometimes I joined him; at such times his countenance was invariably solemn, his air dejected.
He seemed relieved on seeing me, and would talk with some degree of interest on the affairs
of the day. There was evidently something behind all this; yet, when he appeared about to speak
of that which was nearest his heart, he would abruptly turn away, and with a sigh endeavour
to deliver the painful idea to the winds.

It had often occurred, that, when, as I said, Raymond quitted Perdita's drawing-room, Clara
came up to me, and gently drawing me aside, said, "Papa is gone; shall we go to him? I dare
say he will be glad to see you." And, as accident permitted, I complied with or refused her
request. One evening a numerous assembly of Greek chieftains were gathered together in the
palace. The intriguing Palli, the accomplished Karazza, the warlike Ypsilanti, were among the
principal. They talked of the events of the day; the skirmish at noon; the diminished numbers
of the Infidels; their defeat and flight: they contemplated, after a short interval of time,
the capture of the Golden City. They endeavoured to picture forth what would then happen, and
spoke in lofty terms of the prosperity of Greece, when Constantinople should become its capital.
The conversation then reverted to Asiatic intelligence, and the ravages the plague made in
its chief cities; conjectures were hazarded as to the progress that disease might have made
in the besieged city.

Raymond had joined in the former part of the discussion. In lively terms he demonstrated the
extremities to which Constantinople was reduced; the wasted and haggard, though ferocious appearance
of the troops; famine and pestilence was at work for them, he observed, and the infidels would
soon be obliged to take refuge in their only hope--submission. Suddenly in the midst of his
harangue he broke off, as if stung by some painful thought; he rose uneasily, and I perceived
him at length quit the hall, and through the long corridor seek the open air. He did not return;
and soon Clara crept round to me, making the accustomed invitation. I consented to her request,
and taking her little hand, followed Raymond. We found him just about to embark in his boat,
and he readily agreed to receive us as companions. After the heats of the day, the cooling
land-breeze ruffled the river, and filled our little sail. The city looked dark to the south,
while numerous lights along the near shores, and the beautiful aspect of the banks reposing
in placid night, the waters keenly reflecting the heavenly lights, gave to this beauteous river
a dower of loveliness that might have characterized a retreat in Paradise. Our single boatman
attended to the sail; Raymond steered; Clara sat at his feet, clasping his knees with her arms,
and laying her head on them. Raymond began the conversation somewhat abruptly.

"This, my friend, is probably the last time we shall have an opportunity of conversing freely;
my plans are now in full operation, and my time will become more and more occupied. Besides,
I wish at once to tell you my wishes and expectations, and then never again to revert to so
painful a subject. First, I must thank you, Lionel, for having remained here at my request.
Vanity first prompted me to ask you: vanity, I call it; yet even in this I see the hand of
fate--your presence will soon be necessary; you will become the last resource of Perdita, her
protector and consoler. You will take her back to Windsor."--

"Not without you," I said. "You do not mean to separate again?"

"Do not deceive yourself," replied Raymond, "the separation at hand is one over which I have
no control; most near at hand is it; the days are already counted. May I trust you? For many
days I have longed to disclose the mysterious presentiments that weigh on me, although I fear
that you will ridicule them. Yet do not, my gentle friend; for, all childish and unwise as
they are, they have become a part of me, and I dare not expect to shake them off.

"Yet how can I expect you to sympathize with me? You are of this world; I am not. You hold
forth your hand; it is even as a part of yourself; and you do not yet divide the feeling of
identity from the mortal form that shapes forth Lionel. How then can you understand me? Earth
is to me a tomb, the firmament a vault, shrouding mere corruption. Time is no more, for I have
stepped within the threshold of eternity; each man I meet appears a corse, which will soon
be deserted of its animating spark, on the eve of decay and corruption.

  Cada piedra un piramide levanta,
  y cada flor costruye un monumento,
  cada edificio es un sepulcro altivo,
  cada soldado un esqueleto vivo."[1]

His accent was mournful,--he sighed deeply. "A few months ago," he continued, "I was thought
to be dying; but life was strong within me. My affections were human; hope and love were the
day-stars of my life. Now-- they dream that the brows of the conqueror of the infidel faith
are about to be encircled by triumphant laurel; they talk of honourable reward, of title, power,
and wealth--all I ask of Greece is a grave. Let them raise a mound above my lifeless body,
which may stand even when the dome of St. Sophia has fallen.

"Wherefore do I feel thus? At Rodosto I was full of hope; but when first I saw Constantinople,
that feeling, with every other joyful one, departed. The last words of Evadne were the seal
upon the warrant of my death. Yet I do not pretend to account for my mood by any particular
event. All I can say is, that it is so. The plague I am told is in Constantinople, perhaps
I have imbibed its effluvia--perhaps disease is the real cause of my prognostications. It matters
little why or wherefore I am affected, no power can avert the stroke, and the shadow of Fate's
uplifted hand already darkens me.

"To you, Lionel, I entrust your sister and her child. Never mention to her the fatal name of
Evadne. She would doubly sorrow over the strange link that enchains me to her, making my spirit
obey her dying voice, following her, as it is about to do, to the unknown country."

I listened to him with wonder; but that his sad demeanour and solemn utterance assured me of
the truth and intensity of his feelings, I should with light derision have attempted to dissipate
his fears. Whatever I was about to reply, was interrupted by the powerful emotions of Clara.
Raymond had spoken, thoughtless of her presence, and she, poor child, heard with terror and
faith the prophecy of his death. Her father was moved by her violent grief; he took her in
his arms and soothed her, but his very soothings were solemn and fearful. "Weep not, sweet
child," said he, "the coming death of one you have hardly known. I may die, but in death I
can never forget or desert my own Clara. In after sorrow or joy, believe that you father's
spirit is near, to save or sympathize with you. Be proud of me, and cherish your infant remembrance
of me. Thus, sweetest, I shall not appear to die. One thing you must promise,--not to speak
to any one but your uncle, of the conversation you have just overheard. When I am gone, you
will console your mother, and tell her that death was only bitter because it divided me from
her; that my last thoughts will be spent on her. But while I live, promise not to betray me;
promise, my child."

With faltering accents Clara promised, while she still clung to her father in a transport of
sorrow. Soon we returned to shore, and I endeavoured to obviate the impression made on the
child's mind, by treating Raymond's fears lightly. We heard no more of them; for, as he had
said, the siege, now drawing to a conclusion, became paramount in interest, engaging all his
time and attention.

The empire of the Mahometans in Europe was at its close. The Greek fleet blockading every port
of Stamboul, prevented the arrival of succour from Asia; all egress on the side towards land
had become impracticable, except to such desperate sallies, as reduced the numbers of the enemy
without making any impression on our lines. The garrison was now so much diminished, that it
was evident that the city could easily have been carried by storm; but both humanity and policy
dictated a slower mode of proceeding. We could hardly doubt that, if pursued to the utmost,
its palaces, its temples and store of wealth would be destroyed in the fury of contending triumph
and defeat. Already the defenceless citizens had suffered through the barbarity of the Janisaries;
and, in time of storm, tumult and massacre, beauty, infancy and decrepitude, would have alike
been sacrificed to the brutal ferocity of the soldiers. Famine and blockade were certain means
of conquest; and on these we founded our hopes of victory.

Each day the soldiers of the garrison assaulted our advanced posts, and impeded the accomplishment
of our works. Fire-boats were launched from the various ports, while our troops sometimes recoiled
from the devoted courage of men who did not seek to live, but to sell their lives dearly. These
contests were aggravated by the season: they took place during summer, when the southern Asiatic
wind came laden with intolerable heat, when the streams were dried up in their shallow beds,
and the vast basin of the sea appeared to glow under the unmitigated rays of the solsticial
sun. Nor did night refresh the earth. Dew was denied; herbage and flowers there were none;
the very trees drooped; and summer assumed the blighted appearance of winter, as it went forth
in silence and flame to abridge the means of sustenance to man. In vain did the eye strive
to find the wreck of some northern cloud in the stainless empyrean, which might bring hope
of change and moisture to the oppressive and windless atmosphere. All was serene, burning,
annihilating. We the besiegers were in the comparison little affected by these evils. The woods
around afforded us shade,--the river secured to us a constant supply of water; nay, detachments
were employed in furnishing the army with ice, which had been laid up on Haemus, and Athos,
and the mountains of Macedonia, while cooling fruits and wholesome food renovated the strength
of the labourers, and made us bear with less impatience the weight of the unrefreshing air.
But in the city things wore a different face. The sun's rays were refracted from the pavement
and buildings--the stoppage of the public fountains--the bad quality of the food, and scarcity
even of that, produced a state of suffering, which was aggravated by the scourge of disease;
while the garrison arrogated every superfluity to themselves, adding by waste and riot to the
necessary evils of the time. Still they would not capitulate.

Suddenly the system of warfare was changed. We experienced no more assaults; and by night and
day we continued our labours unimpeded. Stranger still, when the troops advanced near the city,
the walls were vacant, and no cannon was pointed against the intruders. When these circumstances
were reported to Raymond, he caused minute observations to be made as to what was doing within
the walls, and when his scouts returned, reporting only the continued silence and desolation
of the city, he commanded the army to be drawn out before the gates. No one appeared on the
walls; the very portals, though locked and barred, seemed unguarded; above, the many domes
and glittering crescents pierced heaven; while the old walls, survivors of ages, with ivy-crowned
tower and weed-tangled buttress, stood as rocks in an uninhabited waste. From within the city
neither shout nor cry, nor aught except the casual howling of a dog, broke the noon-day stillness.
Even our soldiers were awed to silence; the music paused; the clang of arms was hushed. Each
man asked his fellow in whispers, the meaning of this sudden peace; while Raymond from an height
endeavoured, by means of glasses, to discover and observe the stratagem of the enemy. No form
could be discerned on the terraces of the houses; in the higher parts of the town no moving
shadow bespoke the presence of any living being: the very trees waved not, and mocked the stability
of architecture with like immovability.

The tramp of horses, distinctly heard in the silence, was at length discerned. It was a troop
sent by Karazza, the Admiral; they bore dispatches to the Lord General. The contents of these
papers were important. The night before, the watch, on board one of the smaller vessels anchored
near the seraglio wall, was roused by a slight splashing as of muffled oars; the alarm was
given: twelve small boats, each containing three Janizaries, were descried endeavouring to
make their way through the fleet to the opposite shore of Scutari. When they found themselves
discovered they discharged their muskets, and some came to the front to cover the others, whose
crews, exerting all their strength, endeavoured to escape with their light barks from among
the dark hulls that environed them. They were in the end all sunk, and, with the exception
of two or three prisoners, the crews drowned. Little could be got from the survivors; but their
cautious answers caused it to be surmised that several expeditions had preceded this last,
and that several Turks of rank and importance had been conveyed to Asia. The men disdainfully
repelled the idea of having deserted the defence of their city; and one, the youngest among
them, in answer to the taunt of a sailor, exclaimed, "Take it, Christian dogs! take the palaces,
the gardens, the mosques, the abode of our fathers--take plague with them; pestilence is the
enemy we fly; if she be your friend, hug her to your bosoms. The curse of Allah is on Stamboul,
share ye her fate."

Such was the account sent by Karazza to Raymond: but a tale full of monstrous exaggerations,
though founded on this, was spread by the accompanying troop among our soldiers. A murmur arose,
the city was the prey of pestilence; already had a mighty power subjugated the inhabitants;
Death had become lord of Constantinople.

I have heard a picture described, wherein all the inhabitants of earth were drawn out in fear
to stand the encounter of Death. The feeble and decrepid fled; the warriors retreated, though
they threatened even in flight. Wolves and lions, and various monsters of the desert roared
against him; while the grim Unreality hovered shaking his spectral dart, a solitary but invincible
assailant. Even so was it with the army of Greece. I am convinced, that had the myriad troops
of Asia come from over the Propontis, and stood defenders of the Golden City, each and every
Greek would have marched against the overwhelming numbers, and have devoted himself with patriotic
fury for his country. But here no hedge of bayonets opposed itself, no death-dealing artillery,
no formidable array of brave soldiers--the unguarded walls afforded easy entrance--the vacant
palaces luxurious dwellings; but above the dome of St. Sophia the superstitious Greek saw Pestilence,
and shrunk in trepidation from her influence.

Raymond was actuated by far other feelings. He descended the hill with a face beaming with
triumph, and pointing with his sword to the gates, commanded his troops to--down with those
barricades--the only obstacles now to completest victory. The soldiers answered his cheerful
words with aghast and awe-struck looks; instinctively they drew back, and Raymond rode in the
front of the lines:--"By my sword I swear," he cried, "that no ambush or stratagem endangers
you. The enemy is already vanquished; the pleasant places, the noble dwellings and spoil of
the city are already yours; force the gate; enter and possess the seats of your ancestors,
your own inheritance!"

An universal shudder and fearful whispering passed through the lines; not a soldier moved.
"Cowards!" exclaimed their general, exasperated, "give me an hatchet! I alone will enter! I
will plant your standard; and when you see it wave from yon highest minaret, you may gain courage,
and rally round it!"

One of the officers now came forward: "General," he said, "we neither fear the courage, nor
arms, the open attack, nor secret ambush of the Moslems. We are ready to expose our breasts,
exposed ten thousand times before, to the balls and scymetars of the infidels, and to fall
gloriously for Greece. But we will not die in heaps, like dogs poisoned in summer-time, by
the pestilential air of that city--we dare not go against the Plague!"

A multitude of men are feeble and inert, without a voice, a leader; give them that, and they
regain the strength belonging to their numbers. Shouts from a thousand voices now rent the
air--the cry of applause became universal. Raymond saw the danger; he was willing to save his
troops from the crime of disobedience; for he knew, that contention once begun between the
commander and his army, each act and word added to the weakness of the former, and bestowed
power on the latter. He gave orders for the retreat to be sounded, and the regiments repaired
in good order to the camp.

I hastened to carry the intelligence of these strange proceedings to Perdita; and we were soon
joined by Raymond. He looked gloomy and perturbed. My sister was struck by my narrative: "How
beyond the imagination of man," she exclaimed, "are the decrees of heaven, wondrous and inexplicable!"

"Foolish girl," cried Raymond angrily, "are you like my valiant soldiers, panic-struck? What
is there inexplicable, pray, tell me, in so very natural an occurrence? Does not the plague
rage each year in Stamboul? What wonder, that this year, when as we are told, its virulence
is unexampled in Asia, that it should have occasioned double havoc in that city? What wonder
then, in time of siege, want, extreme heat, and drought, that it should make unaccustomed ravages?
Less wonder far is it, that the garrison, despairing of being able to hold out longer, should
take advantage of the negligence of our fleet to escape at once from siege and capture. It
is not pestilence --by the God that lives! it is not either plague or impending danger that
makes us, like birds in harvest-time, terrified by a scarecrow, abstain from the ready prey--it
is base superstition--And thus the aim of the valiant is made the shuttlecock of fools; the
worthy ambition of the high-souled, the plaything of these tamed hares! But yet Stamboul shall
be ours! By my past labours, by torture and imprisonment suffered for them, by my victories,
by my sword, I swear--by my hopes of fame, by my former deserts now awaiting their reward,
I deeply vow, with these hands to plant the cross on yonder mosque!"

"Dearest Raymond!" interrupted Perdita, in a supplicating accent.

He had been walking to and fro in the marble hall of the seraglio; his very lips were pale
with rage, while, quivering, they shaped his angry words-- his eyes shot fire--his gestures
seemed restrained by their very vehemence. "Perdita," he continued, impatiently, "I know what
you would say; I know that you love me, that you are good and gentle; but this is no woman's
work--nor can a female heart guess at the hurricane which tears me!"

He seemed half afraid of his own violence, and suddenly quitted the hall: a look from Perdita
shewed me her distress, and I followed him. He was pacing the garden: his passions were in
a state of inconceivable turbulence. "Am I for ever," he cried, "to be the sport of fortune!
Must man, the heaven-climber, be for ever the victim of the crawling reptiles of his species!
Were I as you, Lionel, looking forward to many years of life, to a succession of love-enlightened
days, to refined enjoyments and fresh-springing hopes, I might yield, and breaking my General's
staff, seek repose in the glades of Windsor. But I am about to die!--nay, interrupt me not--soon
I shall die. From the many-peopled earth, from the sympathies of man, from the loved resorts
of my youth, from the kindness of my friends, from the affection of my only beloved Perdita,
I am about to be removed. Such is the will of fate! Such the decree of the High Ruler from
whom there is no appeal: to whom I submit. But to lose all--to lose with life and love, glory
also! It shall not be!

"I, and in a few brief years, all you,--this panic-struck army, and all the population of fair
Greece, will no longer be. But other generations will arise, and ever and for ever will continue,
to be made happier by our present acts, to be glorified by our valour. The prayer of my youth
was to be one among those who render the pages of earth's history splendid; who exalt the race
of man, and make this little globe a dwelling of the mighty. Alas, for Raymond! the prayer
of his youth is wasted--the hopes of his manhood are null!

"From my dungeon in yonder city I cried, soon I will be thy lord! When Evadne pronounced my
death, I thought that the title of Victor of Constantinople would be written on my tomb, and
I subdued all mortal fear. I stand before its vanquished walls, and dare not call myself a
conqueror. So shall it not be! Did not Alexander leap from the walls of the city of the Oxydracae,
to shew his coward troops the way to victory, encountering alone the swords of its defenders?
Even so will I brave the plague--and though no man follow, I will plant the Grecian standard
on the height of St. Sophia."

Reason came unavailing to such high-wrought feelings. In vain I shewed him, that when winter
came, the cold would dissipate the pestilential air, and restore courage to the Greeks. "Talk
not of other season than this!" he cried. "I have lived my last winter, and the date of this
year, 2092, will be carved upon my tomb. Already do I see," he continued, looking up mournfully,
"the bourne and precipitate edge of my existence, over which I plunge into the gloomy mystery
of the life to come. I am prepared, so that I leave behind a trail of light so radiant, that
my worst enemies cannot cloud it. I owe this to Greece, to you, to my surviving Perdita, and
to myself, the victim of ambition."

We were interrupted by an attendant, who announced, that the staff of Raymond was assembled
in the council-chamber. He requested me in the meantime to ride through the camp, and to observe
and report to him the dispositions of the soldiers; he then left me. I had been excited to
the utmost by the proceedings of the day, and now more than ever by the passionate language
of Raymond. Alas! for human reason! He accused the Greeks of superstition: what name did he
give to the faith he lent to the predictions of Evadne? I passed from the palace of Sweet Waters
to the plain on which the encampment lay, and found its inhabitants in commotion. The arrival
of several with fresh stories of marvels, from the fleet; the exaggerations bestowed on what
was already known; tales of old prophecies, of fearful histories of whole regions which had
been laid waste during the present year by pestilence, alarmed and occupied the troops. Discipline
was lost; the army disbanded itself. Each individual, before a part of a great whole moving
only in unison with others, now became resolved into the unit nature had made him, and thought
of himself only. They stole off at first by ones and twos, then in larger companies, until,
unimpeded by the officers, whole battalions sought the road that led to Macedonia.

About midnight I returned to the palace and sought Raymond; he was alone, and apparently composed;
such composure, at least, was his as is inspired by a resolve to adhere to a certain line of
conduct. He heard my account of the self-dissolution of the army with calmness, and then said,
"You know, Verney, my fixed determination not to quit this place, until in the light of day
Stamboul is confessedly ours. If the men I have about me shrink from following me, others,
more courageous, are to be found. Go you before break of day, bear these dispatches to Karazza,
add to them your own entreaties that he send me his marines and naval force; if I can get but
one regiment to second me, the rest would follow of course. Let him send me this regiment.
I shall expect your return by to-morrow noon."

Methought this was but a poor expedient; but I assured him of my obedience and zeal. I quitted
him to take a few hours rest. With the breaking of morning I was accoutred for my ride. I lingered
awhile, desirous of taking leave of Perdita, and from my window observed the approach of the
sun. The golden splendour arose, and weary nature awoke to suffer yet another day of heat and
thirsty decay. No flowers lifted up their dew-laden cups to meet the dawn; the dry grass had
withered on the plains; the burning fields of air were vacant of birds; the cicale alone, children
of the sun, began their shrill and deafening song among the cypresses and olives. I saw Raymond's
coal-black charger brought to the palace gate; a small company of officers arrived soon after;
care and fear was painted on each cheek, and in each eye, unrefreshed by sleep. I found Raymond
and Perdita together. He was watching the rising sun, while with one arm he encircled his beloved's
waist; she looked on him, the sun of her life, with earnest gaze of mingled anxiety and tenderness.
Raymond started angrily when he saw me. "Here still?" he cried. "Is this your promised zeal?"

"Pardon me," I said, "but even as you speak, I am gone."

"Nay, pardon me," he replied; "I have no right to command or reproach; but my life hangs on
your departure and speedy return. Farewell!"

His voice had recovered its bland tone, but a dark cloud still hung on his features. I would
have delayed; I wished to recommend watchfulness to Perdita, but his presence restrained me.
I had no pretence for my hesitation; and on his repeating his farewell, I clasped his outstretched
hand; it was cold and clammy. "Take care of yourself, my dear Lord," I said.

"Nay," said Perdita, "that task shall be mine. Return speedily, Lionel." With an air of absence
he was playing with her auburn locks, while she leaned on him; twice I turned back, only to
look again on this matchless pair. At last, with slow and heavy steps, I had paced out of the
hall, and sprung upon my horse. At that moment Clara flew towards me; clasping my knee she
cried, "Make haste back, uncle! Dear uncle, I have such fearful dreams; I dare not tell my
mother. Do not be long away!" I assured her of my impatience to return, and then, with a small
escort rode along the plain towards the tower of Marmora.

I fulfilled my commission; I saw Karazza. He was somewhat surprised; he would see, he said,
what could be done; but it required time; and Raymond had ordered me to return by noon. It
was impossible to effect any thing in so short a time. I must stay till the next day; or come
back, after having reported the present state of things to the general. My choice was easily
made. A restlessness, a fear of what was about to betide, a doubt as to Raymond's purposes,
urged me to return without delay to his quarters. Quitting the Seven Towers, I rode eastward
towards the Sweet Waters. I took a circuitous path, principally for the sake of going to the
top of the mount before mentioned, which commanded a view of the city. I had my glass with
me. The city basked under the noon-day sun, and the venerable walls formed its picturesque
boundary. Immediately before me was the Top Kapou, the gate near which Mahomet had made the
breach by which he entered the city. Trees gigantic and aged grew near; before the gate I discerned
a crowd of moving human figures--with intense curiosity I lifted my glass to my eye. I saw
Lord Raymond on his charger; a small company of officers had gathered about him; and behind
was a promiscuous concourse of soldiers and subalterns, their discipline lost, their arms thrown
aside; no music sounded, no banners streamed. The only flag among them was one which Raymond
carried; he pointed with it to the gate of the city. The circle round him fell back. With angry
gestures he leapt from his horse, and seizing a hatchet that hung from his saddle-bow, went
with the apparent intention of battering down the opposing gate. A few men came to aid him;
their numbers increased; under their united blows the obstacle was vanquished, gate, portcullis,
and fence were demolished; and the wide sun-lit way, leading to the heart of the city, now
lay open before them. The men shrank back; they seemed afraid of what they had already done,
and stood as if they expected some Mighty Phantom to stalk in offended majesty from the opening.
Raymond sprung lightly on his horse, grasped the standard, and with words which I could not
hear (but his gestures, being their fit accompaniment, were marked by passionate energy,) he
seemed to adjure their assistance and companionship; even as he spoke, the crowd receded from
him. Indignation now transported him; his words I guessed were fraught with disdain--then turning
from his coward followers, he addressed himself to enter the city alone. His very horse seemed
to back from the fatal entrance; his dog, his faithful dog, lay moaning and supplicating in
his path--in a moment more, he had plunged the rowels into the sides of the stung animal, who
bounded forward, and he, the gateway passed, was galloping up the broad and desart street.

Until this moment my soul had been in my eyes only. I had gazed with wonder, mixed with fear
and enthusiasm. The latter feeling now predominated. I forgot the distance between us: "I will
go with thee, Raymond!" I cried; but, my eye removed from the glass, I could scarce discern
the pigmy forms of the crowd, which about a mile from me surrounded the gate; the form of Raymond
was lost. Stung with impatience, I urged my horse with force of spur and loosened reins down
the acclivity, that, before danger could arrive, I might be at the side of my noble, godlike
friend. A number of buildings and trees intervened, when I had reached the plain, hiding the
city from my view. But at that moment a crash was heard. Thunderlike it reverberated through
the sky, while the air was darkened. A moment more and the old walls again met my sight, while
over them hovered a murky cloud; fragments of buildings whirled above, half seen in smoke,
while flames burst out beneath, and continued explosions filled the air with terrific thunders.
Flying from the mass of falling ruin which leapt over the high walls, and shook the ivy towers,
a crowd of soldiers made for the road by which I came; I was surrounded, hemmed in by them,
unable to get forward. My impatience rose to its utmost; I stretched out my hands to the men;
I conjured them to turn back and save their General, the conqueror of Stamboul, the liberator
of Greece; tears, aye tears, in warm flow gushed from my eyes--I would not believe in his destruction;
yet every mass that darkened the air seemed to bear with it a portion of the martyred Raymond.
Horrible sights were shaped to me in the turbid cloud that hovered over the city; and my only
relief was derived from the struggles I made to approach the gate. Yet when I effected my purpose,
all I could discern within the precincts of the massive walls was a city of fire: the open
way through which Raymond had ridden was enveloped in smoke and flame. After an interval the
explosions ceased, but the flames still shot up from various quarters; the dome of St. Sophia
had disappeared. Strange to say (the result perhaps of the concussion of air occasioned by
the blowing up of the city) huge, white thunder clouds lifted themselves up from the southern
horizon, and gathered over-head; they were the first blots on the blue expanse that I had seen
for months, and amidst this havoc and despair they inspired pleasure. The vault above became
obscured, lightning flashed from the heavy masses, followed instantaneously by crashing thunder;
then the big rain fell. The flames of the city bent beneath it; and the smoke and dust arising
from the ruins was dissipated.

I no sooner perceived an abatement of the flames than, hurried on by an irresistible impulse,
I endeavoured to penetrate the town. I could only do this on foot, as the mass of ruin was
impracticable for a horse. I had never entered the city before, and its ways were unknown to
me. The streets were blocked up, the ruins smoking; I climbed up one heap, only to view others
in succession; and nothing told me where the centre of the town might be, or towards what point
Raymond might have directed his course. The rain ceased; the clouds sunk behind the horizon;
it was now evening, and the sun descended swiftly the western sky. I scrambled on, until I
came to a street, whose wooden houses, half-burnt, had been cooled by the rain, and were fortunately
uninjured by the gunpowder. Up this I hurried--until now I had not seen a vestige of man. Yet
none of the defaced human forms which I distinguished, could be Raymond; so I turned my eyes
away, while my heart sickened within me. I came to an open space--a mountain of ruin in the
midst, announced that some large mosque had occupied the space--and here, scattered about,
I saw various articles of luxury and wealth, singed, destroyed--but shewing what they had been
in their ruin--jewels, strings of pearls, embroidered robes, rich furs, glittering tapestries,
and oriental ornaments, seemed to have been collected here in a pile destined for destruction;
but the rain had stopped the havoc midway.

Hours passed, while in this scene of ruin I sought for Raymond. Insurmountable heaps sometimes
opposed themselves; the still burning fires scorched me. The sun set; the atmosphere grew dim--and
the evening star no longer shone companionless. The glare of flames attested the progress of
destruction, while, during mingled light and obscurity, the piles around me took gigantic proportions
and weird shapes. For a moment I could yield to the creative power of the imagination, and
for a moment was soothed by the sublime fictions it presented to me. The beatings of my human
heart drew me back to blank reality. Where, in this wilderness of death, art thou, O Raymond--ornament
of England, deliverer of Greece, "hero of unwritten story," where in this burning chaos are
thy dear relics strewed? I called aloud for him--through the darkness of night, over the scorching
ruins of fallen Constantinople, his name was heard; no voice replied--echo even was mute.

I was overcome by weariness; the solitude depressed my spirits. The sultry air impregnated
with dust, the heat and smoke of burning palaces, palsied my limbs. Hunger suddenly came acutely
upon me. The excitement which had hitherto sustained me was lost; as a building, whose props
are loosened, and whose foundations rock, totters and falls, so when enthusiasm and hope deserted
me, did my strength fail. I sat on the sole remaining step of an edifice, which even in its
downfall, was huge and magnificent; a few broken walls, not dislodged by gunpowder, stood in
fantastic groupes, and a flame glimmered at intervals on the summit of the pile. For a time
hunger and sleep contended, till the constellations reeled before my eyes and then were lost.
I strove to rise, but my heavy lids closed, my limbs over-wearied, claimed repose--I rested
my head on the stone, I yielded to the grateful sensation of utter forgetfulness; and in that
scene of desolation, on that night of despair--I slept.

[1] Calderon de la Barca.

CHAPTER III.

THE stars still shone brightly when I awoke, and Taurus high in the southern heaven shewed
that it was midnight. I awoke from disturbed dreams. Methought I had been invited to Timon's
last feast; I came with keen appetite, the covers were removed, the hot water sent up its unsatisfying
steams, while I fled before the anger of the host, who assumed the form of Raymond; while to
my diseased fancy, the vessels hurled by him after me, were surcharged with fetid vapour, and
my friend's shape, altered by a thousand distortions, expanded into a gigantic phantom, bearing
on its brow the sign of pestilence. The growing shadow rose and rose, filling, and then seeming
to endeavour to burst beyond, the adamantine vault that bent over, sustaining and enclosing
the world. The night-mare became torture; with a strong effort I threw off sleep, and recalled
reason to her wonted functions. My first thought was Perdita; to her I must return; her I must
support, drawing such food from despair as might best sustain her wounded heart; recalling
her from the wild excesses of grief, by the austere laws of duty, and the soft tenderness of
regret.

The position of the stars was my only guide. I turned from the awful ruin of the Golden City,
and, after great exertion, succeeded in extricating myself from its enclosure. I met a company
of soldiers outside the walls; I borrowed a horse from one of them, and hastened to my sister.
The appearance of the plain was changed during this short interval; the encampment was broken
up; the relics of the disbanded army met in small companies here and there; each face was clouded;
every gesture spoke astonishment and dismay.

With an heavy heart I entered the palace, and stood fearful to advance, to speak, to look.
In the midst of the hall was Perdita; she sat on the marble pavement, her head fallen on her
bosom, her hair dishevelled, her fingers twined busily one within the other; she was pale as
marble, and every feature was contracted by agony. She perceived me, and looked up enquiringly;
her half glance of hope was misery; the words died before I could articulate them; I felt a
ghastly smile wrinkle my lips. She understood my gesture; again her head fell; again her fingers
worked restlessly. At last I recovered speech, but my voice terrified her; the hapless girl
had understood my look, and for worlds she would not that the tale of her heavy misery should
have been shaped out and confirmed by hard, irrevocable words. Nay, she seemed to wish to distract
my thoughts from the subject: she rose from the floor: "Hush!" she said, whisperingly; "after
much weeping, Clara sleeps; we must not disturb her." She seated herself then on the same ottoman
where I had left her in the morning resting on the beating heart of her Raymond; I dared not
approach her, but sat at a distant corner, watching her starting and nervous gestures. At length,
in an abrupt manner she asked, "Where is he?"

"O, fear not," she continued, "fear not that I should entertain hope! Yet tell me, have you
found him? To have him once more in my arms, to see him, however changed, is all I desire.
Though Constantinople be heaped above him as a tomb, yet I must find him--then cover us with
the city's weight, with a mountain piled above--I care not, so that one grave hold Raymond
and his Perdita." Then weeping, she clung to me: "Take me to him," she cried, "unkind Lionel,
why do you keep me here? Of myself I cannot find him --but you know where he lies--lead me
thither."

At first these agonizing plaints filled me with intolerable compassion. But soon I endeavoured
to extract patience for her from the ideas she suggested. I related my adventures of the night,
my endeavours to find our lost one, and my disappointment. Turning her thoughts this way, I
gave them an object which rescued them from insanity. With apparent calmness she discussed
with me the probable spot where he might be found, and planned the means we should use for
that purpose. Then hearing of my fatigue and abstinence, she herself brought me food. I seized
the favourable moment, and endeavoured to awaken in her something beyond the killing torpor
of grief. As I spoke, my subject carried me away; deep admiration; grief, the offspring of
truest affection, the overflowing of a heart bursting with sympathy for all that had been great
and sublime in the career of my friend, inspired me as I poured forth the praises of Raymond.

"Alas, for us," I cried, "who have lost this latest honour of the world! Beloved Raymond! He
is gone to the nations of the dead; he has become one of those, who render the dark abode of
the obscure grave illustrious by dwelling there. He has journied on the road that leads to
it, and joined the mighty of soul who went before him. When the world was in its infancy death
must have been terrible, and man left his friends and kindred to dwell, a solitary stranger,
in an unknown country. But now, he who dies finds many companions gone before to prepare for
his reception. The great of past ages people it, the exalted hero of our own days is counted
among its inhabitants, while life becomes doubly 'the desart and the solitude.'

"What a noble creature was Raymond, the first among the men of our time. By the grandeur of
his conceptions, the graceful daring of his actions, by his wit and beauty, he won and ruled
the minds of all. Of one only fault he might have been accused; but his death has cancelled
that. I have heard him called inconstant of purpose--when he deserted, for the sake of love,
the hope of sovereignty, and when he abdicated the protectorship of England, men blamed his
infirmity of purpose. Now his death has crowned his life, and to the end of time it will be
remembered, that he devoted himself, a willing victim, to the glory of Greece. Such was his
choice: he expected to die. He foresaw that he should leave this cheerful earth, the lightsome
sky, and thy love, Perdita; yet he neither hesitated or turned back, going right onward to
his mark of fame. While the earth lasts, his actions will be recorded with praise. Grecian
maidens will in devotion strew flowers on his tomb, and make the air around it resonant with
patriotic hymns, in which his name will find high record."

I saw the features of Perdita soften; the sternness of grief yielded to tenderness--I continued:--"Thus
to honour him, is the sacred duty of his survivors. To make his name even as an holy spot of
ground, enclosing it from all hostile attacks by our praise, shedding on it the blossoms of
love and regret, guarding it from decay, and bequeathing it untainted to posterity. Such is
the duty of his friends. A dearer one belongs to you, Perdita, mother of his child. Do you
remember in her infancy, with what transport you beheld Clara, recognizing in her the united
being of yourself and Raymond; joying to view in this living temple a manifestation of your
eternal loves. Even such is she still. You say that you have lost Raymond. O, no!--yet he lives
with you and in you there. From him she sprung, flesh of his flesh, bone of his bone--and not,
as heretofore, are you content to trace in her downy cheek and delicate limbs, an affinity
to Raymond, but in her enthusiastic affections, in the sweet qualities of her mind, you may
still find him living, the good, the great, the beloved. Be it your care to foster this similarity--be
it your care to render her worthy of him, so that, when she glory in her origin, she take not
shame for what she is."

I could perceive that, when I recalled my sister's thoughts to her duties in life, she did
not listen with the same patience as before. She appeared to suspect a plan of consolation
on my part, from which she, cherishing her new-born grief, revolted. "You talk of the future,"
she said, "while the present is all to me. Let me find the earthly dwelling of my beloved;
let us rescue that from common dust, so that in times to come men may point to the sacred tomb,
and name it his--then to other thoughts, and a new course of life, or what else fate, in her
cruel tyranny, may have marked out for me."

After a short repose I prepared to leave her, that I might endeavour to accomplish her wish.
In the mean time we were joined by Clara, whose pallid cheek and scared look shewed the deep
impression grief had made on her young mind. She seemed to be full of something to which she
could not give words; but, seizing an opportunity afforded by Perdita's absence, she preferred
to me an earnest prayer, that I would take her within view of the gate at which her father
had entered Constantinople. She promised to commit no extravagance, to be docile, and immediately
to return. I could not refuse; for Clara was not an ordinary child; her sensibility and intelligence
seemed already to have endowed her with the rights of womanhood. With her therefore, before
me on my horse, attended only by the servant who was to re-conduct her, we rode to the Top
Kapou. We found a party of soldiers gathered round it. They were listening. "They are human
cries," said one: "More like the howling of a dog," replied another; and again they bent to
catch the sound of regular distant moans, which issued from the precincts of the ruined city.
"That, Clara," I said, "is the gate, that the street which yestermorn your father rode up."
Whatever Clara's intention had been in asking to be brought hither, it was balked by the presence
of the soldiers. With earnest gaze she looked on the labyrinth of smoking piles which had been
a city, and then expressed her readiness to return home. At this moment a melancholy howl struck
on our ears; it was repeated; "Hark!" cried Clara, "he is there; that is Florio, my father's
dog." It seemed to me impossible that she could recognise the sound, but she persisted in her
assertion till she gained credit with the crowd about. At least it would be a benevolent action
to rescue the sufferer, whether human or brute, from the desolation of the town; so, sending
Clara back to her home, I again entered Constantinople. Encouraged by the impunity attendant
on my former visit, several soldiers who had made a part of Raymond's body guard, who had loved
him, and sincerely mourned his loss, accompanied me.

It is impossible to conjecture the strange enchainment of events which restored the lifeless
form of my friend to our hands. In that part of the town where the fire had most raged the
night before, and which now lay quenched, black and cold, the dying dog of Raymond crouched
beside the mutilated form of its lord. At such a time sorrow has no voice; affliction, tamed
by it is very vehemence, is mute. The poor animal recognised me, licked my hand, crept close
to its lord, and died. He had been evidently thrown from his horse by some falling ruin, which
had crushed his head, and defaced his whole person. I bent over the body, and took in my hand
the edge of his cloak, less altered in appearance than the human frame it clothed. I pressed
it to my lips, while the rough soldiers gathered around, mourning over this worthiest prey
of death, as if regret and endless lamentation could re-illumine the extinguished spark, or
call to its shattered prison-house of flesh the liberated spirit. Yesterday those limbs were
worth an universe; they then enshrined a transcendant power, whose intents, words, and actions
were worthy to be recorded in letters of gold; now the superstition of affection alone could
give value to the shattered mechanism, which, incapable and clod-like, no more resembled Raymond,
than the fallen rain is like the former mansion of cloud in which it climbed the highest skies,
and gilded by the sun, attracted all eyes, and satiated the sense by its excess of beauty.

Such as he had now become, such as was his terrene vesture, defaced and spoiled, we wrapt it
in our cloaks, and lifting the burthen in our arms, bore it from this city of the dead. The
question arose as to where we should deposit him. In our road to the palace, we passed through
the Greek cemetery; here on a tablet of black marble I caused him to be laid; the cypresses
waved high above, their death-like gloom accorded with his state of nothingness. We cut branches
of the funereal trees and placed them over him, and on these again his sword. I left a guard
to protect this treasure of dust; and ordered perpetual torches to be burned around.

When I returned to Perdita, I found that she had already been informed of the success of my
undertaking. He, her beloved, the sole and eternal object of her passionate tenderness, was
restored her. Such was the maniac language of her enthusiasm. What though those limbs moved
not, and those lips could no more frame modulated accents of wisdom and love! What though like
a weed flung from the fruitless sea, he lay the prey of corruption-- still that was the form
she had caressed, those the lips that meeting hers, had drank the spirit of love from the commingling
breath; that was the earthly mechanism of dissoluble clay she had called her own. True, she
looked forward to another life; true, the burning spirit of love seemed to her unextinguishable
throughout eternity. Yet at this time, with human fondness, she clung to all that her human
senses permitted her to see and feel to be a part of Raymond.

Pale as marble, clear and beaming as that, she heard my tale, and enquired concerning the spot
where he had been deposited. Her features had lost the distortion of grief; her eyes were brightened,
her very person seemed dilated; while the excessive whiteness and even transparency of her
skin, and something hollow in her voice, bore witness that not tranquillity, but excess of
excitement, occasioned the treacherous calm that settled on her countenance. I asked her where
he should be buried. She replied, "At Athens; even at the Athens which he loved. Without the
town, on the acclivity of Hymettus, there is a rocky recess which he pointed out to me as the
spot where he would wish to repose."

My own desire certainly was that he should not be removed from the spot where he now lay. But
her wish was of course to be complied with; and I entreated her to prepare without delay for
our departure.

Behold now the melancholy train cross the flats of Thrace, and wind through the defiles, and
over the mountains of Macedonia, coast the clear waves of the Peneus, cross the Larissean plain,
pass the straits of Thermopylae, and ascending in succession Oeta and Parnassus, descend to
the fertile plain of Athens. Women bear with resignation these long drawn ills, but to a man's
impatient spirit, the slow motion of our cavalcade, the melancholy repose we took at noon,
the perpetual presence of the pall, gorgeous though it was, that wrapt the rifled casket which
had contained Raymond, the monotonous recurrence of day and night, unvaried by hope or change,
all the circumstances of our march were intolerable. Perdita, shut up in herself, spoke little.
Her carriage was closed; and, when we rested, she sat leaning her pale cheek on her white cold
hand, with eyes fixed on the ground, indulging thoughts which refused communication or sympathy.

We descended from Parnassus, emerging from its many folds, and passed through Livadia on our
road to Attica. Perdita would not enter Athens; but reposing at Marathon on the night of our
arrival, conducted me on the following day, to the spot selected by her as the treasure house
of Raymond's dear remains. It was in a recess near the head of the ravine to the south of Hymettus.
The chasm, deep, black, and hoary, swept from the summit to the base; in the fissures of the
rock myrtle underwood grew and wild thyme, the food of many nations of bees; enormous crags
protruded into the cleft, some beetling over, others rising perpendicularly from it. At the
foot of this sublime chasm, a fertile laughing valley reached from sea to sea, and beyond was
spread the blue Aegean, sprinkled with islands, the light waves glancing beneath the sun. Close
to the spot on which we stood, was a solitary rock, high and conical, which, divided on every
side from the mountain, seemed a nature-hewn pyramid; with little labour this block was reduced
to a perfect shape; the narrow cell was scooped out beneath in which Raymond was placed, and
a short inscription, carved in the living stone, recorded the name of its tenant, the cause
and aera of his death.

Every thing was accomplished with speed under my directions. I agreed to leave the finishing
and guardianship of the tomb to the head of the religious establishment at Athens, and by the
end of October prepared for my return to England. I mentioned this to Perdita. It was painful
to appear to drag her from the last scene that spoke of her lost one; but to linger here was
vain, and my very soul was sick with its yearning to rejoin my Idris and her babes. In reply,
my sister requested me to accompany her the following evening to the tomb of Raymond. Some
days had passed since I had visited the spot. The path to it had been enlarged, and steps hewn
in the rock led us less circuitously than before, to the spot itself; the platform on which
the pyramid stood was enlarged, and looking towards the south, in a recess overshadowed by
the straggling branches of a wild fig-tree, I saw foundations dug, and props and rafters fixed,
evidently the commencement of a cottage; standing on its unfinished threshold, the tomb was
at our right-hand, the whole ravine, and plain, and azure sea immediately before us; the dark
rocks received a glow from the descending sun, which glanced along the cultivated valley, and
dyed in purple and orange the placid waves; we sat on a rocky elevation, and I gazed with rapture
on the beauteous panorama of living and changeful colours, which varied and enhanced the graces
of earth and ocean.

"Did I not do right," said Perdita, "in having my loved one conveyed hither? Hereafter this
will be the cynosure of Greece. In such a spot death loses half its terrors, and even the inanimate
dust appears to partake of the spirit of beauty which hallows this region. Lionel, he sleeps
there; that is the grave of Raymond, he whom in my youth I first loved; whom my heart accompanied
in days of separation and anger; to whom I am now joined for ever. Never--mark me--never will
I leave this spot. Methinks his spirit remains here as well as that dust, which, uncommunicable
though it be, is more precious in its nothingness than aught else widowed earth clasps to her
sorrowing bosom. The myrtle bushes, the thyme, the little cyclamen, which peep from the fissures
of the rock, all the produce of the place, bear affinity to him; the light that invests the
hills participates in his essence, and sky and mountains, sea and valley, are imbued by the
presence of his spirit. I will live and die here!

"Go you to England, Lionel; return to sweet Idris and dearest Adrian; return, and let my orphan
girl be as a child of your own in your house. Look on me as dead; and truly if death be a mere
change of state, I am dead. This is another world, from that which late I inhabited, from that
which is now your home. Here I hold communion only with the has been, and to come. Go you to
England, and leave me where alone I can consent to drag out the miserable days which I must
still live."

A shower of tears terminated her sad harangue. I had expected some extravagant proposition,
and remained silent awhile, collecting my thoughts that I might the better combat her fanciful
scheme. "You cherish dreary thoughts, my dear Perdita," I said, "nor do I wonder that for a
time your better reason should be influenced by passionate grief and a disturbed imagination.
Even I am in love with this last home of Raymond's; nevertheless we must quit it."

"I expected this," cried Perdita; "I supposed that you would treat me as a mad, foolish girl.
But do not deceive yourself; this cottage is built by my order; and here I shall remain, until
the hour arrives when I may share his happier dwelling."

"My dearest girl!"

"And what is there so strange in my design? I might have deceived you; I might have talked
of remaining here only a few months; in your anxiety to reach Windsor you would have left me,
and without reproach or contention, I might have pursued my plan. But I disdained the artifice;
or rather in my wretchedness it was my only consolation to pour out my heart to you, my brother,
my only friend. You will not dispute with me? You know how wilful your poor, misery-stricken
sister is. Take my girl with you; wean her from sights and thoughts of sorrow; let infantine
hilarity revisit her heart, and animate her eyes; so could it never be, were she near me; it
is far better for all of you that you should never see me again. For myself, I will not voluntarily
seek death, that is, I will not, while I can command myself; and I can here. But drag me from
this country; and my power of self control vanishes, nor can I answer for the violence my agony
of grief may lead me to commit."

"You clothe your meaning, Perdita," I replied, "in powerful words, yet that meaning is selfish
and unworthy of you. You have often agreed with me that there is but one solution to the intricate
riddle of life; to improve ourselves, and contribute to the happiness of others: and now, in
the very prime of life, you desert your principles, and shut yourself up in useless solitude.
Will you think of Raymond less at Windsor, the scene of your early happiness? Will you commune
less with his departed spirit, while you watch over and cultivate the rare excellence of his
child? You have been sadly visited; nor do I wonder that a feeling akin to insanity should
drive you to bitter and unreasonable imaginings. But a home of love awaits you in your native
England. My tenderness and affection must soothe you; the society of Raymond's friends will
be of more solace than these dreary speculations. We will all make it our first care, our dearest
task, to contribute to your happiness."

Perdita shook her head; "If it could be so," she replied, "I were much in the wrong to disdain
your offers. But it is not a matter of choice; I can live here only. I am a part of this scene;
each and all its properties are a part of me. This is no sudden fancy; I live by it. The knowledge
that I am here, rises with me in the morning, and enables me to endure the light; it is mingled
with my food, which else were poison; it walks, it sleeps with me, for ever it accompanies
me. Here I may even cease to repine, and may add my tardy consent to the decree which has taken
him from me. He would rather have died such a death, which will be recorded in history to endless
time, than have lived to old age unknown, unhonoured. Nor can I desire better, than, having
been the chosen and beloved of his heart, here, in youth's prime, before added years can tarnish
the best feelings of my nature, to watch his tomb, and speedily rejoin him in his blessed repose.

"So much, my dearest Lionel, I have said, wishing to persuade you that I do right. If you are
unconvinced, I can add nothing further by way of argument, and I can only declare my fixed
resolve. I stay here; force only can remove me. Be it so; drag me away--I return; confine me,
imprison me, still I escape, and come here. Or would my brother rather devote the heart-broken
Perdita to the straw and chains of a maniac, than suffer her to rest in peace beneath the shadow
of His society, in this my own selected and beloved recess?"--

All this appeared to me, I own, methodized madness. I imagined, that it was my imperative duty
to take her from scenes that thus forcibly reminded her of her loss. Nor did I doubt, that
in the tranquillity of our family circle at Windsor, she would recover some degree of composure,
and in the end, of happiness. My affection for Clara also led me to oppose these fond dreams
of cherished grief; her sensibility had already been too much excited; her infant heedlessness
too soon exchanged for deep and anxious thought. The strange and romantic scheme of her mother,
might confirm and perpetuate the painful view of life, which had intruded itself thus early
on her contemplation.

On returning home, the captain of the steam packet with whom I had agreed to sail, came to
tell me, that accidental circumstances hastened his departure, and that, if I went with him,
I must come on board at five on the following morning. I hastily gave my consent to this arrangement,
and as hastily formed a plan through which Perdita should be forced to become my companion.
I believe that most people in my situation would have acted in the same manner. Yet this consideration
does not, or rather did not in after time, diminish the reproaches of my conscience. At the
moment, I felt convinced that I was acting for the best, and that all I did was right and even
necessary.

I sat with Perdita and soothed her, by my seeming assent to her wild scheme. She received my
concurrence with pleasure, and a thousand times over thanked her deceiving, deceitful brother.
As night came on, her spirits, enlivened by my unexpected concession, regained an almost forgotten
vivacity. I pretended to be alarmed by the feverish glow in her cheek; I entreated her to take
a composing draught; I poured out the medicine, which she took docilely from me. I watched
her as she drank it. Falsehood and artifice are in themselves so hateful, that, though I still
thought I did right, a feeling of shame and guilt came painfully upon me. I left her, and soon
heard that she slept soundly under the influence of the opiate I had administered. She was
carried thus unconscious on board; the anchor weighed, and the wind being favourable, we stood
far out to sea; with all the canvas spread, and the power of the engine to assist, we scudded
swiftly and steadily through the chafed element.

It was late in the day before Perdita awoke, and a longer time elapsed before recovering from
the torpor occasioned by the laudanum, she perceived her change of situation. She started wildly
from her couch, and flew to the cabin window. The blue and troubled sea sped past the vessel,
and was spread shoreless around: the sky was covered by a rack, which in its swift motion shewed
how speedily she was borne away. The creaking of the masts, the clang of the wheels, the tramp
above, all persuaded her that she was already far from the shores of Greece.--"Where are we?"
she cried, "where are we going?"--

The attendant whom I had stationed to watch her, replied, "to England."--

"And my brother?"--

"Is on deck, Madam."

"Unkind! unkind!" exclaimed the poor victim, as with a deep sigh she looked on the waste of
waters. Then without further remark, she threw herself on her couch, and closing her eyes remained
motionless; so that but for the deep sighs that burst from her, it would have seemed that she
slept.

As soon as I heard that she had spoken, I sent Clara to her, that the sight of the lovely innocent
might inspire gentle and affectionate thoughts. But neither the presence of her child, nor
a subsequent visit from me, could rouse my sister. She looked on Clara with a countenance of
woful meaning, but she did not speak. When I appeared, she turned away, and in reply to my
enquiries, only said, "You know not what you have done!"--I trusted that this sullenness betokened
merely the struggle between disappointment and natural affection, and that in a few days she
would be reconciled to her fate.

When night came on, she begged that Clara might sleep in a separate cabin. Her servant, however,
remained with her. About midnight she spoke to the latter, saying that she had had a bad dream,
and bade her go to her daughter, and bring word whether she rested quietly. The woman obeyed.

The breeze, that had flagged since sunset, now rose again. I was on deck, enjoying our swift
progress. The quiet was disturbed only by the rush of waters as they divided before the steady
keel, the murmur of the moveless and full sails, the wind whistling in the shrouds, and the
regular motion of the engine. The sea was gently agitated, now shewing a white crest, and now
resuming an uniform hue; the clouds had disappeared; and dark ether clipt the broad ocean,
in which the constellations vainly sought their accustomed mirror. Our rate could not have
been less than eight knots.

Suddenly I heard a splash in the sea. The sailors on watch rushed to the side of the vessel,
with the cry--some one gone overboard. "It is not from deck," said the man at the helm, "something
has been thrown from the aft cabin." A call for the boat to be lowered was echoed from the
deck. I rushed into my sister's cabin; it was empty.

With sails abaft, the engine stopt, the vessel remained unwillingly stationary, until, after
an hour's search, my poor Perdita was brought on board. But no care could re-animate her, no
medicine cause her dear eyes to open, and the blood to flow again from her pulseless heart.
One clenched hand contained a slip of paper, on which was written, "To Athens." To ensure her
removal thither, and prevent the irrecoverable loss of her body in the wide sea, she had had
the precaution to fasten a long shawl round her waist, and again to the staunchions of the
cabin window. She had drifted somewhat under the keel of the vessel, and her being out of sight
occasioned the delay in finding her. And thus the ill-starred girl died a victim to my senseless
rashness. Thus, in early day, she left us for the company of the dead, and preferred to share
the rocky grave of Raymond, before the animated scene this cheerful earth afforded, and the
society of loving friends. Thus in her twenty-ninth year she died; having enjoyed some few
years of the happiness of paradise, and sustaining a reverse to which her impatient spirit
and affectionate disposition were unable to submit. As I marked the placid expression that
had settled on her countenance in death, I felt, in spite of the pangs of remorse, in spite
of heart-rending regret, that it was better to die so, than to drag on long, miserable years
of repining and inconsolable grief. Stress of weather drove us up the Adriatic Gulph; and,
our vessel being hardly fitted to weather a storm, we took refuge in the port of Ancona. Here
I met Georgio Palli, the vice-admiral of the Greek fleet, a former friend and warm partizan
of Raymond. I committed the remains of my lost Perdita to his care, for the purpose of having
them transported to Hymettus, and placed in the cell her Raymond already occupied beneath the
pyramid. This was all accomplished even as I wished. She reposed beside her beloved, and the
tomb above was inscribed with the united names of Raymond and Perdita.

I then came to a resolution of pursuing our journey to England overland. My own heart was racked
by regrets and remorse. The apprehension, that Raymond had departed for ever, that his name,
blended eternally with the past, must be erased from every anticipation of the future, had
come slowly upon me. I had always admired his talents; his noble aspirations; his grand conceptions
of the glory and majesty of his ambition: his utter want of mean passions; his fortitude and
daring. In Greece I had learnt to love him; his very waywardness, and self-abandonment to the
impulses of superstition, attached me to him doubly; it might be weakness, but it was the antipodes
of all that was grovelling and selfish. To these pangs were added the loss of Perdita, lost
through my own accursed self-will and conceit. This dear one, my sole relation; whose progress
I had marked from tender childhood through the varied path of life, and seen her throughout
conspicuous for integrity, devotion, and true affection; for all that constitutes the peculiar
graces of the female character, and beheld her at last the victim of too much loving, too constant
an attachment to the perishable and lost, she, in her pride of beauty and life, had thrown
aside the pleasant perception of the apparent world for the unreality of the grave, and had
left poor Clara quite an orphan. I concealed from this beloved child that her mother's death
was voluntary, and tried every means to awaken cheerfulness in her sorrow-stricken spirit.

One of my first acts for the recovery even of my own composure, was to bid farewell to the
sea. Its hateful splash renewed again and again to my sense the death of my sister; its roar
was a dirge; in every dark hull that was tossed on its inconstant bosom, I imaged a bier, that
would convey to death all who trusted to its treacherous smiles. Farewell to the sea! Come,
my Clara, sit beside me in this aerial bark; quickly and gently it cleaves the azure serene,
and with soft undulation glides upon the current of the air; or, if storm shake its fragile
mechanism, the green earth is below; we can descend, and take shelter on the stable continent.
Here aloft, the companions of the swift-winged birds, we skim through the unresisting element,
fleetly and fearlessly. The light boat heaves not, nor is opposed by death-bearing waves; the
ether opens before the prow, and the shadow of the globe that upholds it, shelters us from
the noon-day sun. Beneath are the plains of Italy, or the vast undulations of the wave-like
Apennines: fertility reposes in their many folds, and woods crown the summits. The free and
happy peasant, unshackled by the Austrian, bears the double harvest to the garner; and the
refined citizens rear without dread the long blighted tree of knowledge in this garden of the
world. We were lifted above the Alpine peaks, and from their deep and brawling ravines entered
the plain of fair France, and after an airy journey of six days, we landed at Dieppe, furled
the feathered wings, and closed the silken globe of our little pinnace. A heavy rain made this
mode of travelling now incommodious; so we embarked in a steam-packet, and after a short passage
landed at Portsmouth.

A strange story was rife here. A few days before, a tempest-struck vessel had appeared off
the town: the hull was parched-looking and cracked, the sails rent, and bent in a careless,
unseamanlike manner, the shrouds tangled and broken. She drifted towards the harbour, and was
stranded on the sands at the entrance. In the morning the custom-house officers, together with
a crowd of idlers, visited her. One only of the crew appeared to have arrived with her. He
had got to shore, and had walked a few paces towards the town, and then, vanquished by malady
and approaching death, had fallen on the inhospitable beach. He was found stiff, his hands
clenched, and pressed against his breast. His skin, nearly black, his matted hair and bristly
beard, were signs of a long protracted misery. It was whispered that he had died of the plague.
No one ventured on board the vessel, and strange sights were averred to be seen at night, walking
the deck, and hanging on the masts and shrouds. She soon went to pieces; I was shewn where
she had been, and saw her disjoined timbers tossed on the waves. The body of the man who had
landed, had been buried deep in the sands; and none could tell more, than that the vessel was
American built, and that several months before the Fortunatas had sailed from Philadelphia,
of which no tidings were afterwards received.

CHAPTER IV.

I RETURNED to my family estate in the autumn of the year 2092. My heart had long been with
them; and I felt sick with the hope and delight of seeing them again. The district which contained
them appeared the abode of every kindly spirit. Happiness, love and peace, walked the forest
paths, and tempered the atmosphere. After all the agitation and sorrow I had endured in Greece,
I sought Windsor, as the storm-driven bird does the nest in which it may fold its wings in
tranquillity.

How unwise had the wanderers been, who had deserted its shelter, entangled themselves in the
web of society, and entered on what men of the world call "life,"--that labyrinth of evil,
that scheme of mutual torture. To live, according to this sense of the word, we must not only
observe and learn, we must also feel; we must not be mere spectators of action, we must act;
we must not describe, but be subjects of description. Deep sorrow must have been the inmate
of our bosoms; fraud must have lain in wait for us; the artful must have deceived us; sickening
doubt and false hope must have chequered our days; hilarity and joy, that lap the soul in ecstasy,
must at times have possessed us. Who that knows what "life" is, would pine for this feverish
species of existence? I have lived. I have spent days and nights of festivity; I have joined
in ambitious hopes, and exulted in victory: now,--shut the door on the world, and build high
the wall that is to separate me from the troubled scene enacted within its precincts. Let us
live for each other and for happiness; let us seek peace in our dear home, near the inland
murmur of streams, and the gracious waving of trees, the beauteous vesture of earth, and sublime
pageantry of the skies. Let us leave "life," that we may live.

Idris was well content with this resolve of mine. Her native sprightliness needed no undue
excitement, and her placid heart reposed contented on my love, the well-being of her children,
and the beauty of surrounding nature. Her pride and blameless ambition was to create smiles
in all around her, and to shed repose on the fragile existence of her brother. In spite of
her tender nursing, the health of Adrian perceptibly declined. Walking, riding, the common
occupations of life, overcame him: he felt no pain, but seemed to tremble for ever on the verge
of annihilation. Yet, as he had lived on for months nearly in the same state, he did not inspire
us with any immediate fear; and, though he talked of death as an event most familiar to his
thoughts, he did not cease to exert himself to render others happy, or to cultivate his own
astonishing powers of mind. Winter passed away; and spring, led by the months, awakened life
in all nature. The forest was dressed in green; the young calves frisked on the new-sprung
grass; the wind-winged shadows of light clouds sped over the green cornfields; the hermit cuckoo
repeated his monotonous all-hail to the season; the nightingale, bird of love and minion of
the evening star, filled the woods with song; while Venus lingered in the warm sunset, and
the young green of the trees lay in gentle relief along the clear horizon.

Delight awoke in every heart, delight and exultation; for there was peace through all the world;
the temple of Universal Janus was shut, and man died not that year by the hand of man.

"Let this last but twelve months," said Adrian; "and earth will become a Paradise. The energies
of man were before directed to the destruction of his species: they now aim at its liberation
and preservation. Man cannot repose, and his restless aspirations will now bring forth good
instead of evil. The favoured countries of the south will throw off the iron yoke of servitude;
poverty will quit us, and with that, sickness. What may not the forces, never before united,
of liberty and peace achieve in this dwelling of man?"

"Dreaming, for ever dreaming, Windsor!" said Ryland, the old adversary of Raymond, and candidate
for the Protectorate at the ensuing election. "Be assured that earth is not, nor ever can be
heaven, while the seeds of hell are natives of her soil. When the seasons have become equal,
when the air breeds no disorders, when its surface is no longer liable to blights and droughts,
then sickness will cease; when men's passions are dead, poverty will depart. When love is no
longer akin to hate, then brotherhood will exist: we are very far from that state at present."

"Not so far as you may suppose," observed a little old astronomer, by name Merrival, "the poles
precede slowly, but securely; in an hundred thousand years--"

"We shall all be underground," said Ryland.

"The pole of the earth will coincide with the pole of the ecliptic," continued the astronomer,
"an universal spring will be produced, and earth become a paradise."

"And we shall of course enjoy the benefit of the change," said Ryland, contemptuously.

"We have strange news here," I observed. I had the newspaper in my hand, and, as usual, had
turned to the intelligence from Greece. "It seems that the total destruction of Constantinople,
and the supposition that winter had purified the air of the fallen city, gave the Greeks courage
to visit its site, and begin to rebuild it. But they tell us that the curse of God is on the
place, for every one who has ventured within the walls has been tainted by the plague; that
this disease has spread in Thrace and Macedonia; and now, fearing the virulence of infection
during the coming heats, a cordon has been drawn on the frontiers of Thessaly, and a strict
quarantine exacted." This intelligence brought us back from the prospect of paradise, held
out after the lapse of an hundred thousand years, to the pain and misery at present existent
upon earth. We talked of the ravages made last year by pestilence in every quarter of the world;
and of the dreadful consequences of a second visitation. We discussed the best means of preventing
infection, and of preserving health and activity in a large city thus afflicted--London, for
instance. Merrival did not join in this conversation; drawing near Idris, he proceeded to assure
her that the joyful prospect of an earthly paradise after an hundred thousand years, was clouded
to him by the knowledge that in a certain period of time after, an earthly hell or purgatory,
would occur, when the ecliptic and equator would be at right angles.[1] Our party at length
broke up; "We are all dreaming this morning," said Ryland, "it is as wise to discuss the probability
of a visitation of the plague in our well-governed metropolis, as to calculate the centuries
which must escape before we can grow pine-apples here in the open air."

But, though it seemed absurd to calculate upon the arrival of the plague in London, I could
not reflect without extreme pain on the desolation this evil would cause in Greece. The English
for the most part talked of Thrace and Macedonia, as they would of a lunar territory, which,
unknown to them, presented no distinct idea or interest to the minds. I had trod the soil.
The faces of many of the inhabitants were familiar to me; in the towns, plains, hills, and
defiles of these countries, I had enjoyed unspeakable delight, as I journied through them the
year before. Some romantic village, some cottage, or elegant abode there situated, inhabited
by the lovely and the good, rose before my mental sight, and the question haunted me, is the
plague there also?--That same invincible monster, which hovered over and devoured Constantinople--that
fiend more cruel than tempest, less tame than fire, is, alas, unchained in that beautiful country--these
reflections would not allow me to rest.

The political state of England became agitated as the time drew near when the new Protector
was to be elected. This event excited the more interest, since it was the current report, that
if the popular candidate (Ryland) should be chosen, the question of the abolition of hereditary
rank, and other feudal relics, would come under the consideration of parliament. Not a word
had been spoken during the present session on any of these topics. Every thing would depend
upon the choice of a Protector, and the elections of the ensuing year. Yet this very silence
was awful, shewing the deep weight attributed to the question; the fear of either party to
hazard an ill-timed attack, and the expectation of a furious contention when it should begin.

But although St. Stephen's did not echo with the voice which filled each heart, the newspapers
teemed with nothing else; and in private companies the conversation however remotely begun,
soon verged towards this central point, while voices were lowered and chairs drawn closer.
The nobles did not hesitate to express their fear; the other party endeavoured to treat the
matter lightly. "Shame on the country," said Ryland, "to lay so much stress upon words and
frippery; it is a question of nothing; of the new painting of carriage-pannels and the embroidery
of footmen's coats."

Yet could England indeed doff her lordly trappings, and be content with the democratic style
of America? Were the pride of ancestry, the patrician spirit, the gentle courtesies and refined
pursuits, splendid attributes of rank, to be erased among us? We were told that this would
not be the case; that we were by nature a poetical people, a nation easily duped by words,
ready to array clouds in splendour, and bestow honour on the dust. This spirit we could never
lose; and it was to diffuse this concentrated spirit of birth, that the new law was to be brought
forward. We were assured that, when the name and title of Englishman was the sole patent of
nobility, we should all be noble; that when no man born under English sway, felt another his
superior in rank, courtesy and refinement would become the birth-right of all our countrymen.
Let not England be so far disgraced, as to have it imagined that it can be without nobles,
nature's true nobility, who bear their patent in their mien, who are from their cradle elevated
above the rest of their species, because they are better than the rest. Among a race of independent,
and generous, and well educated men, in a country where the imagination is empress of men's
minds, there needs be no fear that we should want a perpetual succession of the high-born and
lordly. That party, however, could hardly yet be considered a minority in the kingdom, who
extolled the ornament of the column, "the Corinthian capital of polished society;" they appealed
to prejudices without number, to old attachments and young hopes; to the expectation of thousands
who might one day become peers; they set up as a scarecrow, the spectre of all that was sordid,
mechanic and base in the commercial republics.

The plague had come to Athens. Hundreds of English residents returned to their own country.
Raymond's beloved Athenians, the free, the noble people of the divinest town in Greece, fell
like ripe corn before the merciless sickle of the adversary. Its pleasant places were deserted;
its temples and palaces were converted into tombs; its energies, bent before towards the highest
objects of human ambition, were now forced to converge to one point, the guarding against the
innumerous arrows of the plague.

At any other time this disaster would have excited extreme compassion among us; but it was
now passed over, while each mind was engaged by the coming controversy. It was not so with
me; and the question of rank and right dwindled to insignificance in my eyes, when I pictured
the scene of suffering Athens. I heard of the death of only sons; of wives and husbands most
devoted; of the rending of ties twisted with the heart's fibres, of friend losing friend, and
young mothers mourning for their first born; and these moving incidents were grouped and painted
in my mind by the knowledge of the persons, by my esteem and affection for the sufferers. It
was the admirers, friends, fellow soldiers of Raymond, families that had welcomed Perdita to
Greece, and lamented with her the loss of her lord, that were swept away, and went to dwell
with them in the undistinguishing tomb.

The plague at Athens had been preceded and caused by the contagion from the East; and the scene
of havoc and death continued to be acted there, on a scale of fearful magnitude. A hope that
the visitation of the present year would prove the last, kept up the spirits of the merchants
connected with these countries; but the inhabitants were driven to despair, or to a resignation
which, arising from fanaticism, assumed the same dark hue. America had also received the taint;
and, were it yellow fever or plague, the epidemic was gifted with a virulence before unfelt.
The devastation was not confined to the towns, but spread throughout the country; the hunter
died in the woods, the peasant in the corn-fields, and the fisher on his native waters.

A strange story was brought to us from the East, to which little credit would have been given,
had not the fact been attested by a multitude of witnesses, in various parts of the world.
On the twenty-first of June, it was said that an hour before noon, a black sun arose: an orb,
the size of that luminary, but dark, defined, whose beams were shadows, ascended from the west;
in about an hour it had reached the meridian, and eclipsed the bright parent of day. Night
fell upon every country, night, sudden, rayless, entire. The stars came out, shedding their
ineffectual glimmerings on the light-widowed earth. But soon the dim orb passed from over the
sun, and lingered down the eastern heaven. As it descended, its dusky rays crossed the brilliant
ones of the sun, and deadened or distorted them. The shadows of things assumed strange and
ghastly shapes. The wild animals in the woods took fright at the unknown shapes figured on
the ground. They fled they knew not whither; and the citizens were filled with greater dread,
at the convulsion which "shook lions into civil streets;"--birds, strong-winged eagles, suddenly
blinded, fell in the market-places, while owls and bats shewed themselves welcoming the early
night. Gradually the object of fear sank beneath the horizon, and to the last shot up shadowy
beams into the otherwise radiant air. Such was the tale sent us from Asia, from the eastern
extremity of Europe, and from Africa as far west as the Golden Coast. Whether this story were
true or not, the effects were certain. Through Asia, from the banks of the Nile to the shores
of the Caspian, from the Hellespont even to the sea of Oman, a sudden panic was driven. The
men filled the mosques; the women, veiled, hastened to the tombs, and carried offerings to
the dead, thus to preserve the living. The plague was forgotten, in this new fear which the
black sun had spread; and, though the dead multiplied, and the streets of Ispahan, of Pekin,
and of Delhi were strewed with pestilence-struck corpses, men passed on, gazing on the ominous
sky, regardless of the death beneath their feet. The christians sought their churches,--christian
maidens, even at the feast of roses, clad in white, with shining veils, sought, in long procession,
the places consecrated to their religion, filling the air with their hymns; while, ever and
anon, from the lips of some poor mourner in the crowd, a voice of wailing burst, and the rest
looked up, fancying they could discern the sweeping wings of angels, who passed over the earth,
lamenting the disasters about to fall on man.

In the sunny clime of Persia, in the crowded cities of China, amidst the aromatic groves of
Cashmere, and along the southern shores of the Mediterranean, such scenes had place. Even in
Greece the tale of the sun of darkness encreased the fears and despair of the dying multitude.
We, in our cloudy isle, were far removed from danger, and the only circumstance that brought
these disasters at all home to us, was the daily arrival of vessels from the east, crowded
with emigrants, mostly English; for the Moslems, though the fear of death was spread keenly
among them, still clung together; that, if they were to die (and if they were, death would
as readily meet them on the homeless sea, or in far England, as in Persia,)-- if they were
to die, their bones might rest in earth made sacred by the relics of true believers. Mecca
had never before been so crowded with pilgrims; yet the Arabs neglected to pillage the caravans,
but, humble and weaponless, they joined the procession, praying Mahomet to avert plague from
their tents and deserts.

I cannot describe the rapturous delight with which I turned from political brawls at home,
and the physical evils of distant countries, to my own dear home, to the selected abode of
goodness and love; to peace, and the interchange of every sacred sympathy. Had I never quitted
Windsor, these emotions would not have been so intense; but I had in Greece been the prey of
fear and deplorable change; in Greece, after a period of anxiety and sorrow, I had seen depart
two, whose very names were the symbol of greatness and virtue. But such miseries could never
intrude upon the domestic circle left to me, while, secluded in our beloved forest, we passed
our lives in tranquillity. Some small change indeed the progress of years brought here; and
time, as it is wont, stamped the traces of mortality on our pleasures and expectations. Idris,
the most affectionate wife, sister and friend, was a tender and loving mother. The feeling
was not with her as with many, a pastime; it was a passion. We had had three children; one,
the second in age, died while I was in Greece. This had dashed the triumphant and rapturous
emotions of maternity with grief and fear. Before this event, the little beings, sprung from
herself, the young heirs of her transient life, seemed to have a sure lease of existence; now
she dreaded that the pitiless destroyer might snatch her remaining darlings, as it had snatched
their brother. The least illness caused throes of terror; she was miserable if she were at
all absent from them; her treasure of happiness she had garnered in their fragile being, and
kept forever on the watch, lest the insidious thief should as before steal these valued gems.
She had fortunately small cause for fear. Alfred, now nine years old, was an upright, manly
little fellow, with radiant brow, soft eyes, and gentle, though independent disposition. Our
youngest was yet in infancy; but his downy cheek was sprinkled with the roses of health, and
his unwearied vivacity filled our halls with innocent laughter.

Clara had passed the age which, from its mute ignorance, was the source of the fears of Idris.
Clara was dear to her, to all. There was so much intelligence combined with innocence, sensibility
with forbearance, and seriousness with perfect good-humour, a beauty so transcendant, united
to such endearing simplicity, that she hung like a pearl in the shrine of our possessions,
a treasure of wonder and excellence.

At the beginning of winter our Alfred, now nine years of age, first went to school at Eton.
This appeared to him the primary step towards manhood, and he was proportionably pleased. Community
of study and amusement developed the best parts of his character, his steady perseverance,
generosity, and well-governed firmness. What deep and sacred emotions are excited in a father's
bosom, when he first becomes convinced that his love for his child is not a mere instinct,
but worthily bestowed, and that others, less akin, participate his approbation! It was supreme
happiness to Idris and myself, to find that the frankness which Alfred's open brow indicated,
the intelligence of his eyes, the tempered sensibility of his tones, were not delusions, but
indications of talents and virtues, which would "grow with his growth, and strengthen with
his strength." At this period, the termination of an animal's love for its offspring,--the
true affection of the human parent commences. We no longer look on this dearest part of ourselves,
as a tender plant which we must cherish, or a plaything for an idle hour. We build now on his
intellectual faculties, we establish our hopes on his moral propensities. His weakness still
imparts anxiety to this feeling, his ignorance prevents entire intimacy; but we begin to respect
the future man, and to endeavour to secure his esteem, even as if he were our equal. What can
a parent have more at heart than the good opinion of his child? In all our transactions with
him our honour must be inviolate, the integrity of our relations untainted: fate and circumstance
may, when he arrives at maturity, separate us for ever--but, as his aegis in danger, his consolation
in hardship, let the ardent youth for ever bear with him through the rough path of life, love
and honour for his parents.

We had lived so long in the vicinity of Eton, that its population of young folks was well known
to us. Many of them had been Alfred's playmates, before they became his school-fellows. We
now watched this youthful congregation with redoubled interest. We marked the difference of
character among the boys, and endeavoured to read the future man in the stripling. There is
nothing more lovely, to which the heart more yearns than a free-spirited boy, gentle, brave,
and generous. Several of the Etonians had these characteristics; all were distinguished by
a sense of honour, and spirit of enterprize; in some, as they verged towards manhood, this
degenerated into presumption; but the younger ones, lads a little older than our own, were
conspicuous for their gallant and sweet dispositions.

Here were the future governors of England; the men, who, when our ardour was cold, and our
projects completed or destroyed for ever, when, our drama acted, we doffed the garb of the
hour, and assumed the uniform of age, or of more equalizing death; here were the beings who
were to carry on the vast machine of society; here were the lovers, husbands, fathers; here
the landlord, the politician, the soldier; some fancied that they were even now ready to appear
on the stage, eager to make one among the dramatis personae of active life. It was not long
since I was like one of these beardless aspirants; when my boy shall have obtained the place
I now hold, I shall have tottered into a grey-headed, wrinkled old man. Strange system! riddle
of the Sphynx, most awe-striking! that thus man remains, while we the individuals pass away.
I will make way for thee. I have already put off the carelessness of childhood, the unlined
brow, and springy gait of early years, that they may adorn thee. Advance; and I will despoil
myself still further for thy advantage. Time shall rob me of the graces of maturity, shall
take the fire from my eyes, and agility from my limbs, shall steal the better part of life,
eager expectation and passionate love, and shower them in double portion on thy dear head.
Advance! avail thyself of the gift, thou and thy comrades; and in the drama you are about to
act, do not disgrace those who taught you to enter on the stage, and to pronounce becomingly
the parts assigned to you! May your progress be uninterrupted and secure; born during the spring-tide
of the hopes of man, may you lead up the summer to which no winter may succeed!

[1] See an ingenious Essay, entitled, "The Mythological Astronomy of the Ancients Demonstrated,"
by Mackey, a shoemaker, of Norwich printed in 1822. [2] Burke's Reflections on the French Revolution.

CHAPTER V.

SOME disorder had surely crept into the course of the elements, destroying their benignant
influence. The wind, prince of air, raged through his kingdom, lashing the sea into fury, and
subduing the rebel earth into some sort of obedience.

  The God sends down his angry plagues from high,
  Famine and pestilence in heaps they die.
  Again in vengeance of his wrath he falls
  On their great hosts, and breaks their tottering walls;
  Arrests their navies on the ocean's plain,
  And whelms their strength with mountains of the main.

Their deadly power shook the flourishing countries of the south, and during winter, even, we,
in our northern retreat, began to quake under their ill effects.

That fable is unjust, which gives the superiority to the sun over the wind. Who has not seen
the lightsome earth, the balmy atmosphere, and basking nature become dark, cold and ungenial,
when the sleeping wind has awoke in the east? Or, when the dun clouds thickly veil the sky,
while exhaustless stores of rain are poured down, until, the dank earth refusing to imbibe
the superabundant moisture, it lies in pools on the surface; when the torch of day seems like
a meteor, to be quenched; who has not seen the cloud-stirring north arise, the streaked blue
appear, and soon an opening made in the vapours in the eye of the wind, through which the bright
azure shines? The clouds become thin; an arch is formed for ever rising upwards, till, the
universal cope being unveiled, the sun pours forth its rays, re-animated and fed by the breeze.

Then mighty art thou, O wind, to be throned above all other vicegerents of nature's power;
whether thou comest destroying from the east, or pregnant with elementary life from the west;
thee the clouds obey; the sun is subservient to thee; the shoreless ocean is thy slave! Thou
sweepest over the earth, and oaks, the growth of centuries, submit to thy viewless axe; the
snow-drift is scattered on the pinnacles of the Alps, the avalanche thunders down their vallies.
Thou holdest the keys of the frost, and canst first chain and then set free the streams; under
thy gentle governance the buds and leaves are born, they flourish nursed by thee.

Why dost thou howl thus, O wind? By day and by night for four long months thy roarings have
not ceased--the shores of the sea are strewn with wrecks, its keel-welcoming surface has become
impassable, the earth has shed her beauty in obedience to thy command; the frail balloon dares
no longer sail on the agitated air; thy ministers, the clouds, deluge the land with rain; rivers
forsake their banks; the wild torrent tears up the mountain path; plain and wood, and verdant
dell are despoiled of their loveliness; our very cities are wasted by thee. Alas, what will
become of us? It seems as if the giant waves of ocean, and vast arms of the sea, were about
to wrench the deep-rooted island from its centre; and cast it, a ruin and a wreck, upon the
fields of the Atlantic.

What are we, the inhabitants of this globe, least among the many that people infinite space?
Our minds embrace infinity; the visible mechanism of our being is subject to merest accident.
Day by day we are forced to believe this. He whom a scratch has disorganized, he who disappears
from apparent life under the influence of the hostile agency at work around us, had the same
powers as I--I also am subject to the same laws. In the face of all this we call ourselves
lords of the creation, wielders of the elements, masters of life and death, and we allege in
excuse of this arrogance, that though the individual is destroyed, man continues for ever.

Thus, losing our identity, that of which we are chiefly conscious, we glory in the continuity
of our species, and learn to regard death without terror. But when any whole nation becomes
the victim of the destructive powers of exterior agents, then indeed man shrinks into insignificance,
he feels his tenure of life insecure, his inheritance on earth cut off.

I remember, after having witnessed the destructive effects of a fire, I could not even behold
a small one in a stove, without a sensation of fear. The mounting flames had curled round the
building, as it fell, and was destroyed. They insinuated themselves into the substances about
them, and the impediments to their progress yielded at their touch. Could we take integral
parts of this power, and not be subject to its operation? Could we domesticate a cub of this
wild beast, and not fear its growth and maturity?

Thus we began to feel, with regard to many-visaged death let loose on the chosen districts
of our fair habitation, and above all, with regard to the plague. We feared the coming summer.
Nations, bordering on the already infected countries, began to enter upon serious plans for
the better keeping out of the enemy. We, a commercial people, were obliged to bring such schemes
under consideration; and the question of contagion became matter of earnest disquisition.

That the plague was not what is commonly called contagious, like the scarlet fever, or extinct
small-pox, was proved. It was called an epidemic. But the grand question was still unsettled
of how this epidemic was generated and increased. If infection depended upon the air, the air
was subject to infection. As for instance, a typhus fever has been brought by ships to one
sea-port town; yet the very people who brought it there, were incapable of communicating it
in a town more fortunately situated. But how are we to judge of airs, and pronounce--in such
a city plague will die unproductive; in such another, nature has provided for it a plentiful
harvest? In the same way, individuals may escape ninety-nine times, and receive the death-blow
at the hundredth; because bodies are sometimes in a state to reject the infection of malady,
and at others, thirsty to imbibe it. These reflections made our legislators pause, before they
could decide on the laws to be put in force. The evil was so wide-spreading, so violent and
immedicable, that no care, no prevention could be judged superfluous, which even added a chance
to our escape.

These were questions of prudence; there was no immediate necessity for an earnest caution.
England was still secure. France, Germany, Italy and Spain, were interposed, walls yet without
a breach, between us and the plague. Our vessels truly were the sport of winds and waves, even
as Gulliver was the toy of the Brobdignagians; but we on our stable abode could not be hurt
in life or limb by these eruptions of nature. We could not fear--we did not. Yet a feeling
of awe, a breathless sentiment of wonder, a painful sense of the degradation of humanity, was
introduced into every heart. Nature, our mother, and our friend, had turned on us a brow of
menace. She shewed us plainly, that, though she permitted us to assign her laws and subdue
her apparent powers, yet, if she put forth but a finger, we must quake. She could take our
globe, fringed with mountains, girded by the atmosphere, containing the condition of our being,
and all that man's mind could invent or his force achieve; she could take the ball in her hand,
and cast it into space, where life would be drunk up, and man and all his efforts for ever
annihilated.

These speculations were rife among us; yet not the less we proceeded in our daily occupations,
and our plans, whose accomplishment demanded the lapse of many years. No voice was heard telling
us to hold! When foreign distresses came to be felt by us through the channels of commerce,
we set ourselves to apply remedies. Subscriptions were made for the emigrants, and merchants
bankrupt by the failure of trade. The English spirit awoke to its full activity, and, as it
had ever done, set itself to resist the evil, and to stand in the breach which diseased nature
had suffered chaos and death to make in the bounds and banks which had hitherto kept them out.

At the commencement of summer, we began to feel, that the mischief which had taken place in
distant countries was greater than we had at first suspected. Quito was destroyed by an earthquake.
Mexico laid waste by the united effects of storm, pestilence and famine. Crowds of emigrants
inundated the west of Europe; and our island had become the refuge of thousands. In the mean
time Ryland had been chosen Protector. He had sought this office with eagerness, under the
idea of turning his whole forces to the suppression of the privileged orders of our community.
His measures were thwarted, and his schemes interrupted by this new state of things. Many of
the foreigners were utterly destitute; and their increasing numbers at length forbade a recourse
to the usual modes of relief. Trade was stopped by the failure of the interchange of cargoes
usual between us, and America, India, Egypt and Greece. A sudden break was made in the routine
of our lives. In vain our Protector and his partizans sought to conceal this truth; in vain,
day after day, he appointed a period for the discussion of the new laws concerning hereditary
rank and privilege; in vain he endeavoured to represent the evil as partial and temporary.
These disasters came home to so many bosoms, and, through the various channels of commerce,
were carried so entirely into every class and division of the community, that of necessity
they became the first question in the state, the chief subjects to which we must turn our attention.

Can it be true, each asked the other with wonder and dismay, that whole countries are laid
waste, whole nations annihilated, by these disorders in nature? The vast cities of America,
the fertile plains of Hindostan, the crowded abodes of the Chinese, are menaced with utter
ruin. Where late the busy multitudes assembled for pleasure or profit, now only the sound of
wailing and misery is heard. The air is empoisoned, and each human being inhales death, even
while in youth and health, their hopes are in the flower. We called to mind the plague of 1348,
when it was calculated that a third of mankind had been destroyed. As yet western Europe was
uninfected; would it always be so?

O, yes, it would--Countrymen, fear not! In the still uncultivated wilds of America, what wonder
that among its other giant destroyers, Plague should be numbered! It is of old a native of
the East, sister of the tornado, the earthquake, and the simoon. Child of the sun, and nursling
of the tropics, it would expire in these climes. It drinks the dark blood of the inhabitant
of the south, but it never feasts on the pale-faced Celt. If perchance some stricken Asiatic
come among us, plague dies with him, uncommunicated and innoxious. Let us weep for our brethren,
though we can never experience their reverse. Let us lament over and assist the children of
the garden of the earth. Late we envied their abodes, their spicy groves, fertile plains, and
abundant loveliness. But in this mortal life extremes are always matched; the thorn grows with
the rose, the poison tree and the cinnamon mingle their boughs. Persia, with its cloth of gold,
marble halls, and infinite wealth, is now a tomb. The tent of the Arab is fallen in the sands,
and his horse spurns the ground unbridled and unsaddled. The voice of lamentation fills the
valley of Cashmere; its dells and woods, its cool fountains, and gardens of roses, are polluted
by the dead; in Circassia and Georgia the spirit of beauty weeps over the ruin of its favourite
temple--the form of woman.

Our own distresses, though they were occasioned by the fictitious reciprocity of commerce,
encreased in due proportion. Bankers, merchants, and manufacturers, whose trade depended on
exports and interchange of wealth, became bankrupt. Such things, when they happen singly, affect
only the immediate parties; but the prosperity of the nation was now shaken by frequent and
extensive losses. Families, bred in opulence and luxury, were reduced to beggary. The very
state of peace in which we gloried was injurious; there were no means of employing the idle,
or of sending any overplus of population out of the country. Even the source of colonies was
dried up, for in New Holland, Van Diemen's Land, and the Cape of Good Hope, plague raged. O,
for some medicinal vial to purge unwholesome nature, and bring back the earth to its accustomed
health!

Ryland was a man of strong intellects and quick and sound decision in the usual course of things,
but he stood aghast at the multitude of evils that gathered round us. Must he tax the landed
interest to assist our commercial population? To do this, he must gain the favour of the chief
land-holders, the nobility of the country; and these were his vowed enemies--he must conciliate
them by abandoning his favourite scheme of equalization; he must confirm them in their manorial
rights; he must sell his cherished plans for the permanent good of his country, for temporary
relief. He must aim no more at the dear object of his ambition; throwing his arms aside, he
must for present ends give up the ultimate object of his endeavours. He came to Windsor to
consult with us. Every day added to his difficulties; the arrival of fresh vessels with emigrants,
the total cessation of commerce, the starving multitude that thronged around the palace of
the Protectorate, were circumstances not to be tampered with. The blow was struck; the aristocracy
obtained all they wished, and they subscribed to a twelvemonths' bill, which levied twenty
per cent on all the rent-rolls of the country. Calm was now restored to the metropolis, and
to the populous cities, before driven to desperation; and we returned to the consideration
of distant calamities, wondering if the future would bring any alleviation to their excess.
It was August; so there could be small hope of relief during the heats. On the contrary, the
disease gained virulence, while starvation did its accustomed work. Thousands died unlamented;
for beside the yet warm corpse the mourner was stretched, made mute by death.

