It seems to be frequently the case, that a set of able workmen, in the kind of artistic manufactures
for which France is celebrated, become the gérants of such companies. This, we believe, is
a form in which whatever element of good may happen to lie in the co-operative theories of
a recent school of Socialists will be found. The commercial witnesses before the select committee,
spoke of ribbons and other ornamental manufactures, which were only produced in perfection
in establishments where the energies of the designers were roused by the possession of a share
in the business, and in its management, as gérants. Coinciding with these practical witnesses,
the theorists on political economy who were consulted on the occasion--such as Mr Babbage and
Mr J.S. Mill--held that many inventions that might be patented and used, and many ingenious
discoveries made by men of the operative class, were lost to the world by the defective state
of the law. They would often get those who, richer than themselves, have reliance on their
judgment, to aid them in carrying out their inventions or improvements, were it not for the
law of unlimited responsibility.

We can even anticipate, from anything that will facilitate fruitful investment by the working-classes,
a still wider--we might say, a political effect. The chief defect in our otherwise sound social
system, is the want of fusion between the class of employers and employed. As some other countries
are subject to the more serious evil of being without a middle-class between the aristocracy
and the common people, so we want a sub-grade, as it were, between the middle and the working
classes. It is too much the practice to consider them as separated from each other by interests,
tastes, and feelings. It is, on the contrary, the real truth that their interests are indissolubly
united; but if there were a less broad line separating them from each other, this would be
more apparent. The true way to fill up the gap happily for all parties, is not for the middle-class
to descend, but the working-class to rise. Nothing could better accomplish this, than imparting
to them facilities for entering into business on a small scale on their own account. The hopelessness
with which the workman looks at the position of the employer, as that of a great capitalist,
would then be turned into hope and endeavour.

It is often said, that the operative classes shew an unfortunate indisposition to advance onwards,
and abandon their uniform routine of toil: the answer to this is--try them. They have adopted
the means at their command in other countries. Mr Davis, an American gentleman, gave the select
committee an animated view of the ambitious workmen of the New England states, where, he said,
'nobody is contented with his present condition--everybody is struggling for something better.'
Now, to be discontented with one's condition, in the shape of folding the arms, and abusing
the fate that has not sent chance prosperity, is a bad thing; but the discontent--if such it
can be justly called--which incites a man to rise in the world by honest exertions, is in every
way a good thing. Mr Davis said, he has been told that, in Lowell, some of the young women
hold stock in the mills in which they work. Imagine a factory-girl holding stock in a mill!

We believe that unlimited responsibility was really founded on the old prejudices against usury
or interest; and as these prejudices are fast disappearing, we may hope speedily to see this
relic of their operation removed. Towards this end, let the operatives everywhere meet to consider
this question, so important to their interests; and, as we believe they will generally see
the propriety of furthering a law to establish commandite partnerships, let them petition the
House of Commons accordingly. Whether the classes with capital will move in the matter, is
doubtful; for they are not the parties to be chiefly benefited. The best way is not to trust
to them on the subject; but for the working-classes to take the thing into their own hands,
and spare no exertion to procure an act of parliament of the kind we speak of. We feel assured,
that such an act would do more to inspire hope among artisans, and to put them in the way of
fortune, than any other law that could be mentioned.

RECENT FIRE-PANICS.

The panic created by a cry of fire in theatres, churches, and other public buildings, may be
said to cause a considerably greater number of deaths than the flames themselves. Few persons,
indeed, are burnt to death, means of escape from conflagration being usually found; whereas,
the number suffocated and bruised to death by mere panic, is lamentably large. The following
is the account of a most disastrous fire-panic, which we gather from a paper in an American
Journal of Education.

In the city of New York there is a school, known as the 'Ninth Ward School-house,' Greenwich
Avenue. The house is built of brick, and consists of several floors, access to which is obtained
by a spiral staircase. The bottom of the staircase is paved with stone, and ten feet square
in extent. Standing in the centre of this landing-place, we look up a circular well, as it
may be called, round which the stair winds with its balustrade. The school is attended by boys
and girls, in different departments, under their respective teachers. It was in this extensive
establishment, numbering at the time 1233 boys and 600 girls, that the panic occurred, and
it broke out in a singular and unexpected way.

One day last December, Miss Harrison, a teacher in the female department, who had been for
some days indisposed, was suddenly, and while performing her duties in the school, seized with
a paralysis of the tongue. The spectacle of their teacher in this distressing condition, naturally
suggested to the children that she was faint, and required water. At all events, the word water
was uttered. It was repeated. It became a cry; and the cry excited the idea of fire. A notion
sprang up that the school was on fire. That was enough. The floor was in an uproar; and the
noise so created in one department was communicated to the others. The whole school was seized
with panic! Now commenced a rush towards the various doors. Out of each poured a flood of children,
dashing wildly to the staircase. The torrent jammed up, and unable to find outlet by the stair,
burst the balustrades, and down like a cataract poured the maddened throng into the central
well, falling on the paved lobby beneath. The scene was appalling. 'Before the current could
be arrested, the well was filled with the bodies of children to the depth of about eight feet.
At this juncture, the alarm reached the Ninth Ward Station-house, the fire-bell was rung, and
a detachment of the police hurried to the scene. Here a new difficulty presented itself. The
afternoon session of the school having commenced, the main outer-doors, which open upon the
foot of the stairs, had been closed. Against these the affrighted children were wedged in masses,
and as the doors open inward, it was some time before relief could be given them. The police
fortunately effected an entrance by a rear-door, but for which timely help, many more of the
children would probably have been suffocated.

'Much commendation is due to the teachers for their presence of mind. Miss M'Farland, one of
the assistants in the primary department, finding the children of her department becoming alarmed,
placed herself in the doorway, and exerted her utmost strength to arrest them as they endeavoured
to rush from the room; and although several times thrown down and trampled upon, she still
persisted in her efforts, until, finally, she was so much injured, as to be compelled to relinquish
the post. So impetuous was the rush, however, that five of the teachers were forced over the
balusters, and fell with the children into the well. The sterner discipline exercised over
the boys' departments prevented them generally from joining in the rush. Only three of the
pupils in the upper male department were among the killed. Some of the boys jumped out of the
windows, and one of them had his neck broken by the fall. As soon as they gained admittance,
the police took possession of the premises, and commenced handing out the children from their
perilous position. Those that were on the top were but slightly injured; but as soon as these
had been removed, the most heart-rending spectacle presented itself. Some among the policemen
were fathers, whose own children were there. They worked manfully, and body after body was
taken out: many of them lifeless at first, came to when they once more breathed the fresh air;
but many were beyond aid, and death was too plainly marked upon their pallid features. Some
were injured by the fall, and lay writhing in agony; some moaned; while others shrieked with
pain; and others, again, when released, started off for home, apparently unconscious of the
awful scene through which they had passed. The bodies of the dead and wounded were mostly taken
to the Ninth Ward Station-house, which is near the school. In a few minutes, news of the accident
spread through the neighbourhood, and mothers came rushing to the scene by scores. Occasionally,
a mother would recognise the lifeless form of a child as it was lifted from the mass, and then
the piercing cry of agony that would rend the air! One after another, the bodies of the dead
were removed; and at length litters were provided, and the wounded were carried away also.
Nearly one hundred families either mourned the loss of children, or watched anxiously over
the forms of the wounded.'

The coroner's jury which sat on this case of wholesale destruction of life, decided that no
blame could be imputed to any of the teachers in the school, and that the deaths were a result
of accident. At the same time, they strongly condemned the construction of the stair, and the
unfitness of the balustrades to withstand pressure. The whole case suggests the impolicy of
giving spiral staircases to buildings of this class: in all such establishments, the stairs
should be broad and square, with numerous landing-places.

Strangely enough, the sensation caused by the above catastrophe had not subsided, when another
case of destruction of life occurred in New York from a similarly groundless fear of fire.
This second disaster is noticed as follows in the newspapers:

'Monday night (January 12), between the hours of nine and ten o'clock, a frightful calamity
occurred at 140 Centre Street, in a rear building owned by the Commissioners of Emigration,
for the reception of the newly-arrived emigrants. The building is five storeys high, and each
floor appropriated for the emigrants--the upper rooms principally for the women, and the lower
part for the men. In this place, six human lives were lost, and perhaps as many more may yet
die from the injuries sustained. It seems that between nine and ten o'clock, the City Hall
bell rang an alarm of fire in the fifth district, and some of the women on the upper floors
called out "fire," which instantly created a panic of alarm on each floor among them, and a
general rush was made for the stairway, which being very contracted, they fell one on the top
of each other, creating an awful state of confusion. So terrified were some, that they broke
out the second and third storey windows, and sprang out, falling with deadly violence in the
yard below. The screams and cries of the affrighted women and children soon called the aid
of the police; and Captain Brennen, aided by his efficient officers, rendered every assistance
in his power, and succeeded, as quickly as possible, in extricating the injured as well as
the dead from the scene of calamity. Six dead bodies were conveyed to the station-house, and
eight persons were conveyed to the city hospital with broken arms and bodily injuries, some
of whom are not expected to survive. Many others were injured, more or less, but not deemed
sufficiently so to be sent to the hospital. Those killed are all children, except one, who
is a young woman about twenty years of age. They were all suffocated by the number of persons
crowded on them. The scene at the Sixth Ward Station-house presented a woful sight, the mothers
of the deceased children bewailing over them in the most pitiful manner. At the time the alarm
was given, there were about 480 emigrants in the building, the larger proportion women and
children, who were up stairs; and in forcing their way down stairs, the balusters gave way,
thus precipitating them down in a very similar manner to the unfortunate children at the Ninth
Ward School-house. There was, it seems, no cause for the alarm of fire any more than the bells
rang an alarm; which alarm did not refer to that district, but was misconstrued by the emigrants
to be in their building. Alderman Barr was quickly on the spot, rendering every assistance
in his power to alleviate the sufferings of the poor unfortunate emigrants.'

The details of these two calamities arising from sheer panic will not be useless, if they serve
to shew the extreme danger and folly of giving way to a terror of fire in crowded buildings.
Let us impress upon all the necessity for so disciplining their nerves, that on hearing a call
of fire in a church, theatre, or other place of assemblage, they may act with calmness and
common sense; those nearest the door going out, and the others quietly following. It is in
the highest degree improbable--not to say impossible--that in such places fire, before its
discovery, can gain such a height as to cut off, unaided by panic, the escape of a single man,
woman, or child in the house. We should remember, that not merely on the first discovery of
fire, but when the building is actually in flames, the firemen are at work within the walls;
and that these men are protected by no immunity but that arising from their own courage and
self-possession.

THINGS TALKED OF IN LONDON.

February 1852.

Professor Faraday's lecture, with which, according to use and custom, the Friday evening course
at the Royal Institution was opened, has been the most noteworthy topic of scientific gossip
since my last. The subject, 'Lines of Magnetic Force,' is one not easily popularised, otherwise,
I should like to give you an abstract of it. One requires to know so much beforehand, to comprehend
the value and significance of such a lecture. The learned professor's experiments, by which
he demonstrated his reasonings were, however, eminently interesting to the crowded auditory
who had the good-fortune to listen to him. He promises to give us, before the close of the
season, another, wherein he will make use of that telescope of the mind--speculation, and tell
us much of what his ever-widening researches have led him to conclude concerning magnetism;
a science on which he believes we are shortly to get large 'increments of knowledge.' Mr Wheatstone,
too, having produced a paper resuming his stereoscopic investigations, had the honour of reading
it before the Royal Society as their Bakerian Lecture, as I prognosticated a month or two since.
Of course in this practical age the inquiry is put--Of what use is the stereoscope or pseudoscope?
With respect to the former, it is said that artists will find it very serviceable in copying
statuary groups; and a suggestion has already been made, to adapt it to the purposes of microscopic
observation, as the objects examined will be seen much more accurately under the extraordinary
relief produced by the stereoscope, than by the ordinary method. And it may interest astronomers
to know, that Mr Wheatstone believes it possible, by means of the same instrument, to perfect
our knowledge of the moon's surface and structure. For instance: he proposes to take a photographic
image of the moon, at one of the periods of her libration, and a second one about fifteen months
afterwards, at the next libration, which, as you know, would be in the opposite direction to
the first. The two images being then viewed in a stereoscope, would appear as a solid sphere,
in which condition we should doubtless get such an acquaintance with the surface of our satellite
as can be obtained by no other means. The reason for taking the images with so long an interval
between is, that although each one represents the same object, each must be taken at a different
angle; and for an object so distant as the moon, the difference caused by the libration would,
it is believed, be sufficient for the desired result. In the small pictures, however, the difference
of angle is so slight, that to the unpractised observer they appear precisely alike; it is,
nevertheless, essential to the effect that the variation, though minute, should exist. With
respect to the pseudoscope--which makes the outside of a teacup appear as the inside, and the
inside as the outside; which transforms convexity into concavity, and the reverse; and a sculptured
face into a hollow mask; which makes the tree in your garden appear inside your room, and the
branches farthest off come nearest to the eye; and which, when you look at your pictures, represents
them as sunk into a deep recess in the wall,--with respect to this instrument, its practical
uses have yet to be discovered. But as your celebrated countryman, Sir David Brewster, is working
at the subject, as well as Mr Wheatstone, we shall not, so say the initiated, have to wait
long for further results.

Besides these lectures, a course is being delivered at the Museum of Practical Geology, recently
opened in Jermyn Street, by eminent professors, as you may judge from the fact of De la Beche,
Forbes, and Playfair being among them. Some of the most promising of the pupils at the School
of Design are allowed to attend these lectures gratis. At the same institution, an attempt
is to be made to do what has long been done in Paris--namely, to admit working-people to the
best scientific lectures free of cost. Now, therefore, is the time for the working-men of the
metropolis to shew whether they wish for knowledge and enlightenment or not. They have only
to present themselves at the Museum, pay a registration-fee of sixpence, conform to the rules,
and so qualify themselves for the course of six lectures. It is a capital opportunity; and
I, for one, hope that hundreds of the intelligent working-men of London will avail themselves
of it. They, on their part, may find government education not unacceptable; and government,
on the other hand, encouraged by a successful experiment, may feel inclined to extend its benefits.
If a clear-headed lecturer on political economy could also be appointed, perhaps in time our
industrial fellow-countrymen might come to understand that strikes are always a mistake, and
the masters, that fair play is a jewel.

