The body of the People determined the Tea should not be landed; the determination was deliberate,
was judicious; the sacrifice of their Rights, of the Union of all the Colonies, would have
been the effect had they conducted with less resolution: On the Committee of Correspondence
they devolved the care of seeing their resolutions seasonably executed; that body, as I have
been informed by one of their members, had taken every step prudence and patriotism could suggest,
to effect the desirable purpose, but were defeated. The Body once more assembled, I was again
present; such a collection of the people was to me a novelty; near seven thousand persons from
several towns, Gentlemen, Merchants, Yeomen, and others, respectable for their rank and abilities,
and venerable for their age and character, constituted the assembly; they decently, unanimously
and firmly adhered to their former resolution, that the baleful commodity which was to rivet
and establish the duty should never be landed; to prevent the mischief they repeated the desires
of the Committee of the Towns, that the owner of the ship should apply for a clearance; it
appeared that Mr. Rotch had been managed and was still under the influence of the opposite
party; he resisted the request of the people to apply for a clearance for his ship with an
obstinacy which, in my opinion, bordered on stubbornness--subdued at length by the peremptory
demand of the Body, he consented to apply, a committee of ten respectable gentlemen were appointed
to attend him to the collector; the Body meeting the same morning by adjournment, Mr. Rotch
was directed to protest in form, and then apply to the Governor for a Pass by the Castle; Mr.
Rotch executed his commission with fidelity, but a pass could not be obtained, his Excellency
excusing himself in his refusal that he should not make the precedent of granting a pass till
a clearance was obtained, which was indeed a fallacy, as it had been usual with him in ordinary
cases,--Mr. Rotch returning in the evening reported as above; the Body then voted his conduct
to be satisfactory, and recommending order and regularity to the People, dissolved. A watch,
as I am informed, was stationed to prevent embezzlement and not a single ounce of Teas was
suffered to be purloined by the populace. I cannot but express my admiration of the conduct
of this People. Uninfluenced by party or any other attachment, I presume I shall not be suspected
of misrepresentation. The East India Company must console themselves with this reflection,
that if they have suffered, the prejudice they sustaine does not arise from enmity to them.
A fatal necessity has rendered this catstrophe inevitable--the landing the tea would have been
fatal, as it would have saddled the colonies with a duty imposed without their consent, and
which no power on earth can effect. Their strength and numbers, spirit and illumination, render
the experiment dangerous, the defeat certain: The Consignees must attribute to themselves the
loss of the property of the East India Company: had they seasonably quieted the minds of the
people by a resignation, all had been well; the customhouse, and the man who disgraces Majesty
by representing him, acting in confederacy with the inveterate enemies of America, stupidly
opposed every measure concerted to return the Teas.--That Americans may defeat every attempt
to enslave them, is the warmest wish of my heart. I shall return home doubly fortified in my
resolution to prevent that deprecrated calamity, the landing the teas in Rhode Island, and
console myself with the happiest assurance that my brethren have not less virtue, less resolution,
than their neighbours.

AN IMPARTIAL OBSERVER.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUBLISHERS' DEPARTMENT.

We give with this number of the Bay State a fac-simile reproduction, from a rare copy in our
possession, of "An Oration, pronounced at Hanover, New Hampshire, the Fourth Day of July, 1800,"
by Daniel Webster. This oration was delivered when the future statesman was in his eighteenth
year. It cannot fail to interest every reader of the Magazine, and will be a treat to every
collector of Americana.

Our Lowell article in the March number of The Bay State Monthly has been severely criticized--especially
the cuts. To the older residents of that city each picture was of interest from association.
We should have given credit to the excellent History of Lowell, written by Charles Cowley,
LL.D., and to the Year Book, published by the Mail.

A System of Rhetoric is the title of a book by C.W. Bardeen, published in 1884 by A.S. Barnes
and Company, of New York.

The subject is divided into sentence-making, conversation, letter-writing, the essay, oratory,
and poetry. The book under consideration is an able and exhaustive treatise and must become
highly prized as a textbook.

A Brief History of Ancient, Mediaeval, and Modern Peoples, with some account of their monuments,
institutions, arts; manners, and customs, is the title of a book of six hundred pages, with
two hundred and forty illustrations, issued by the same publishers.

There is a large amount of information crowded within its covers, made available by a thorough
index.

[A]

[Footnote A: Note.--By the delay of the artist, this page, designed for the Chelsea article
in the February number of The Bay State Monthly, was not ready in season.--Ed.]

The unique designs, massive beauty, and artistic grace of Magee's fine-art castings place them
in competition with the finest work in brass and bronze. From the antique suit of armor, platinum
plated, to the light and graceful leaf, for holding the quill and pencil, their designs include
a great variety of ornamental articles: tiles, shields, panels, sconces, brackets, plaques,
arms, trays, fireplaces, and jewelry-boxes.

Their reproduction of the strange and fantastic hand-made studies of Chinese and Japanese artists
would puzzle the Celestials, especially in the coloring and finish. Professional critics are
often deceived as to the materials employed, so fine a finish will iron receive.

This class of work is in its infancy--its possibilities are very numerous.