June 17--British repulse Turks who attempt to retake trenches lost by them a few days ago;
a German officer leads the Turks.

June 20--Turks are undertaking offensive operations in the Caucasus; Turks defeat Russians
near Olti, Transcaucasia, fifty-five miles west of Kars, capturing war material.

June 21--Turkish Asiatic batteries bombard allied columns on way to new positions.

June 22--French attack Turkish lines along two-thirds of the entire front on the Gallipoli
Peninsula, infantry charges following a heavy bombardment; on the left the French carry two
lines of the Turkish trenches and hold them against counter-attacks; to the right, after an
all-day battle, the French also take Turkish works, most of which are wrecked by the French
artillery; the French now hold the ground commanding the head of the ravine of Kereves Dere,
which had been defended by the Turks for several months.

June 27--In the Caucasus region the Russians recently occupied the town of Gob, twenty-five
miles north of Lake Van, and Russian forces are moving toward Biltis, Armenia, where Turkish
forces are concentrated.

June 30--Allies take several lines of Turkish trenches near Krithia.

July 2--Recent gains made by the Allies on the Gallipoli Peninsula are held despite furious
counter-attacks.

July 4--Turks deliver a general attack, preceded by a heavy bombardment, against the Allies'
line on the southern part of the Gallipoli Peninsula, but are repulsed with severe losses.

July 7--In a furious fight on the southern part of the Gallipoli Peninsula, British and French
advance their lines five-eighths of a mile, inflicting Turkish losses which they estimate at
21,000; the advance is part of the work of throwing forces around Atchi Baba, described as
now being one of the strongest fortresses in the world.

July 9--Turkish forces, supported by Arabs, are threatening Aden.

July 13--Lively fighting between the Russians and Turks has occurred recently north and south
of Van Lake, Turkish Armenia, and south of Olti, Transcaucasia, the Russians having the advantage.

CAMPAIGN IN AFRICA

June 19--French Minister of Colonies announces that on May 24, after heavy fighting, French
colonial troops forced the Germans to capitulate at Monso, Kamerun, after taking position after
position; the French captured many prisoners, including considerable numbers of white troops,
and large amounts of stores; French troops continue an offensive movement toward Besam, southeast
of Lomis.

June 25--By land and water the British attack the German fortified port of Bukoba, German East
Africa, on Lake Victoria Nyanza, destroying the fort, putting the wireless station out of action,
sinking many boats, and capturing and destroying guns.

July 8--All the German military forces in German Southwest Africa surrender unconditionally
to General Botha, commander of the forces of the Union of South Africa.

NAVAL RECORD--GENERAL

June 18--Austrian squadron bombards Italian coast at the mouth of the Tagliamento River, but
withdraws on being attacked by Italian destroyers; Austrian destroyer shells Monopoli; Austrian
torpedo boat sinks Italian merchantman Maria Grecia; Italian squadron, supported by an Anglo-French
contingent, bombards several islands of the Dalmatian Archipelago, doing considerable damage.

June 21--Allied ships bombard Turkish batteries on Asiatic side of the Dardanelles.

June 22--German warships in the Baltic Sea capture five Swedish steamers, lumber laden, bound
for England; French battleship St. Louis bombards Turkish batteries on Asiatic side of the
Dardanelles.

June 24--British torpedo gunboat Hussar bombards the ports of Chesmeh, Lidia, and Aglelia,
opposite Chios, destroying small Turkish vessels and doing other damage.

June 26--Netherlands steamer Ceres is sunk by a mine in the Gulf of Bothnia, crew being saved.

June 30--British torpedo boat destroyer Lightning is damaged off the east coast of England
by a mine or torpedo explosion, but makes harbor; fourteen of the crew missing.

July 2--A battle occurs between Russian and German squadrons in the Baltic, between the Island
of Oeland and the Courland coast; after a brief engagement the German squadron, outnumbered
and outmatched in strength, flees; the German mine layer Albatross is wrecked by Russian gunfire
and is beached by her crew; the Russian squadron then sails northward, sighting another German
squadron, which is also outmatched in strength; the German ships flee after a thirty-minute
fight, a German torpedo boat being damaged; Dutch lugger Katwyk 147 is sunk by a mine in the
North Sea, ten of crew being lost.

July 6--Italy closes the Adriatic Sea to navigation by merchant vessels of all countries.

NAVAL RECORD--SUBMARINES

June 16--German submarine sinks British steamer Strathnairn off Scilly Isles, twenty-two of
the crew being drowned; German submarines sink British trawlers Petrel, Explorer, and Japonica.

June 17--Austrian submarine torpedoes and sinks Italian submarine Medusa, this being the first
instance on record of the sinking of one undersea boat by another; German Admiralty announces
the loss of the submarine U-14, her crew being captured by the British; Athens reports that
a British submarine has torpedoed and sunk three Turkish transports, loaded with troops, in
the Dardanelles above Nagara; German submarine sinks British steamer Trafford, crew being saved.

June 18--German submarine sinks British steamer Ailsa off Scotland, crew being saved.

June 19--German Admiralty states that the submarine U-29, commanded by Captain Weddigen, which
was destroyed weeks ago, was rammed and sunk by a British tank steamer flying the Swedish flag,
after the tanker had been ordered to stop; British Government makes an official statement that
the U-29 was sunk by "one of His Majesty's ships"; German submarine sinks British steamer Dulcie,
one of the crew being lost.

June 20--German submarine torpedoes British cruiser Roxburgh in the North Sea; the damage is
not serious and the cruiser proceeds to port under her own steam.

June 21--German submarine sinks by gunfire the British steamer Carisbrook, crew being saved.

June 22--It is officially announced at Petrograd that Russian submarines have sunk a large
Turkish steamer and two sailing vessels in the Black Sea.

June 23--German submarine torpedoes and then burns Norwegian steamer Truma, near the Shetland
Islands, crew being saved.

June 26--Austrian submarine torpedoes and sinks an Italian torpedo boat in the Northern Adriatic.

June 27--German submarine sinks British schooner Edith, crew being saved.

June 28--German submarine U-38 sinks the British steamer Armenian, of the Leyland Line, off
the Cornwall coast, twenty-nine men being lost and ten injured; among the dead are twenty Americans,
employed as attendants for the horses and mules composing the chief portion of the Armenian's
cargo; recital of one of the crew of the British submarine E-11--the vessel which entered the
Sea of Marmora and the harbor of Constantinople, her commander being given the Victoria Cross
and each of the crew the Distinguished Service Medal--shows that the E-11 sank one Turkish
gunboat, one Turkish supply ship, one German transport, three Turkish steamers, and six Turkish
transports.

June 29--German submarine sinks British steamer Scottish Monarch, fifteen of crew being lost;
German submarines sink Norwegian steamers Cambuskenneth and Gjeso, and Norwegian sailing vessel
Marna; the crews are saved.

June 30--British steamer Lomas is sunk by a German submarine, one man being killed; British
bark Thistlebank is sunk by a German submarine; some of crew missing.

