Punctuation is rarely a marked feature of English handwriting. It is said that many of our
leading literary men practically leave this important phase of their work to the printer's
proof-reader. An examination of a hundred private letters by different hands will show a marvellous
scarcity of punctuation marks, and few correspondents use or appear to know the use of any
stop other than the comma and full point, the dash being made to do service for all else. The
mark of interrogation is fairly often used, and its formation gives scope and material for
careful examination. The examples offer suggestions of the form and direction eccentricity
sometimes takes.

The colon and semicolon are very little used by average writers, and when they are, it is generally
inaccurately, but nearly always under the same circumstances, which should be carefully noted.
The quotation marks (" ") are still more rarely employed, and it will be found on examination
that most people form them wrongly. The accurate style is this, “ ”, but as often as not the
initial quotation has the dot at the top instead of the bottom.

Another almost universal omission is that of the full point after initials to a name, after
"Esq.," and in the initials of postal districts, as E.C., W.C. The addressing of an envelope
affords interesting and valuable material for clues, for it will generally be found that a
writer who uses punctuation marks at all will do so with automatic regularity under the same
circumstances.

The shape and general formation of stops and marks must be carefully examined and classified,
for they belong to the significant unpremeditated class of hand-gestures, and are, therefore,
valuable as clues to peculiarities.

The "Esq." that generally follows a man's name on a letter addressed to him partakes much of
the character of a symbol like the "?" or "!", and, being automatic through usage, is therefore
valuable. Most writers use a uniform style in shaping it, and the three letters that go to
make up the abbreviation are fortunately of a kind that lend themselves to characterisation.

Notice, also, the position of the possessive sign in such words as "men's," "writer's." If
accurately placed, the writer may be presumed to understand punctuation, and will give evidence
of it in a long writing.

CHAPTER IX.

PAPER AND WATERMARKS.

The brownish tint of old age which paper needs to help out a fraud is obtained in various ways--sometimes
by steeping in a weak solution of coffee, but in other cases by holding it before a bright
hot fire. This latter device is, fortunately, not easy of accomplishment, considerable care,
judgment and even luck being needed to ensure a satisfactory result. In our own case we have
failed persistently in the attempt, the paper becoming tinted so unequally as to excite remark
at first sight.

All the old pattern of letter paper was almost uniform in size--post quarto, and the watermark
is invariably very distinct, explainable by the fact that the art of close weaving the wire
mould was not then brought to its present state of perfection.

The watermarks are very fairly imitated by means of a pointed stick dipped in a solution of
spermaceti and linseed oil melted in water and stirred till cold; or, equal quantities of turpentine
and Canada balsam shaken together. The same result may be obtained by the use of megilp, a
mixture employed by artists.

The detection of this watermark fraud is simple and infallible. If the suspected document be
moistened with lukewarm water the spurious watermark disappears immediately, but if genuine,
it becomes plainer.

The worn and dingy appearance inseparable from age in a letter is accentuated by rubbing it
lightly with a dirty duster. The effect is usually obvious under a strong glass, the passage
of the dirty cloth revealing itself in minute parallel lines.

Very little care is needed to distinguish between paper that has been taken from books and
the genuine letter paper of the period. To begin with, such letters are always on single sheets.
In genuine cases, the sheet is as often as not a folio of four pages. In the majority of cases
the bogus sheet is of no recognised size. If taken from a book larger than post quarto, it
has had to be cut to conceal the tear. This operation has made an irregular sized sheet--too
small for post quarto, too large for the next size. In the genuine writing paper, all four
edges are usually rough like those of a bank note. If the sheet has been abstracted from a
book, one edge must have been cut or trimmed.

Again, such paper is of unequal thickness, the writing paper of the period being much smoother
and finer than the printing paper, while in parts it is almost certain the ink has run, as
it does on a coarse, absorbent paper. This is a sure sign that the paper is printing and not
writing.

Further, such paper is certain to show signs of wear at the bottom edges where they have been
handled and exposed, while that part of the page which has been closest to the inside edge
of the cover is generally cleaner, and shows less sign of wear. In many cases the impression
of the book binding is plainly visible.

A careful examination and comparison of a few sheets of genuine letter paper of the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries with the blank leaves found in printed books will reveal differences
so marked that mistake is scarcely possible afterwards.

It often occurs that grease marks interrupt the forger. Knowing that he cannot write over them,
and that they are hardly likely to have existed on the paper when it was new, and when the
letter was supposed to be written, he avoids them. The result becomes apparent in unequal spacing
of words and even letters.

On one occasion a really excellent forgery, which had successfully withstood all the tests
we had applied, had its real character revealed by a curious oversight on the part of the forger.

It was an early seventeenth century document, and our attention was arrested by a peculiar
uniform smudgy appearance, such as results from blotting with a hard, unabsorbent, much-worn
sheet of blotting paper. At the period of the presumed date of this document blotting paper
was unknown, writings being dried by means of a specially prepared fine powder called pounce,
sand, or a powder containing fine crystals of metal intended to give an ornamental gloss to
the ink. Close examination under the microscope revealed the truth. There were no signs of
pounce or any other drying powder, the crystals of which are usually plain to the unassisted
eye, but there were distinct signs of the fibre of the blotting paper left in the ink.

Another forgery we discovered through the presence in the centre of the sheet of paper of a
very faint square outline which enclosed a slight discolouration. The sheet had, as usual,
been removed from a book, and the square outline was a faint impression of a book-plate which
had been affixed to the opposite page. The discolouration was caused by the ink on the book-plate.

It should be superfluous to have to remind intelligent and educated persons that it is necessary
for a collector of old documents to make himself familiar with the peculiarities, habits and
customs of the period in whose literary curiosities he is dealing. Yet fact compels the admission
that extraordinary laxity and even ignorance exist on these points. We are acquainted with
a collector, by no means uneducated, who gave a good price for a letter purporting to be by
Sir Humphrey Davy, the inventor of the miners' safety lamp, enclosed in an envelope. He was
ignorant of the fact that envelopes were unknown until 1840, thirty years later than the date
of this particular letter. Envelopes supposed to have been addressed by Dickens have been offered
for sale and purchased, bearing postage stamps not in circulation at the period.

One would imagine that a forger would pay sufficient attention to his materials to be on his
guard against the blunder which earned the perpetrator of the Whalley Will Forgery penal servitude.
He put forward a will dated 1862, written on paper bearing in a plain watermark the date 1870!
Another indiscreet person asked the Court to accept a will written and signed with an aniline
copying pencil, but dated years before that instrument had been invented.

Both the works by Dr. Scott and Mr. Davies, given in the list, show samples of watermarks of
the various periods affected by forgers of literary documents.

CHAPTER X.

INKS.

Examination for determining whether a writing has been done at one time, or added to later,
necessitates some acquaintance with the nature and qualities of ink. In the ordinary case the
assistance of a chemist is necessary, but an enlarged photograph shows up minute differences
with amazing accuracy.

In the majority of instances alterations are made some time after the original has been written,
in which case a difference in the shade of the ink will be perceptible, even to the unassisted
eye. This is particularly true when the now almost universal blue-black ink is used.

The period required for an addition to become as black as the older writing depends very much
upon the character of the paper. If this be smooth and hard, and the writing has not been dried
with blotting paper, but allowed to dry naturally and slowly, it will become black much quicker
than if the paper be rough and of an absorbent nature.

A fairly reliable test is to touch a thick stroke of the suspected addition with a drop of
diluted muriatic acid--as much as will cling to the point of a pin. Apply the drop to the suspected
addition and to the older writing at the same moment, and carefully watch the result. The newer
writing will become faint and watery, with a bluish tinge almost instantly, but the change
will be slower in the case of the older writing, taking ten or even twenty seconds. The longer
the period required for the change, the older the writing.

This same acid test is applied to prove whether a writing is in ordinary ink, or has been lithographed
or photographed. If the two latter, the acid will have no effect.

On more than one occasion collectors have purchased as original autographs of celebrities which
proved to have been lithographed or photographed, but the persons so deceived have generally
been inexperienced amateurs.

When the difference between a written and printed signature has been once noticed it is hardly
likely that an observant person will be deceived. It is, however, as well to be carefully on
guard against this contingency, for modern photography and process printing have been brought
to such a degree of imitative perfection that it is easy for a not too keen-eyed person to
experience great difficulty in forming an opinion in the absence of the acid test. Fortunately
that is infallible.

It must, however, be admitted that up to the present no great success has attended efforts
to determine how long an interval has passed between the writing of the original and the suspected
addition. Broadly speaking, the most that the expert can hope to gain from an examination of
ink under these circumstances are hints, clues and suggestions rather than definite, reliable
facts. Fortunately it often occurs that a suggestion so obtained proves of immense value to
the trained or careful observer, though it might convey no conviction to others.

As in the case of nearly all deductive reasoning the handwriting expert becomes sensitive to
slight suggestions. If called upon, as he sometimes is, to explain to others how and why one
of these slight and almost imperceptible signs fit in with his theory, he fails. Therefore
the cautious expert, like a good judge, is careful in giving reasons for his judgment only
to cite those which are self-evident.

Many an expert has made a poor exhibition in the witness-box by failing to convey to a jury
the impression produced on his own mind by a slight piece of evidence, the proper understanding
and interpretation of which can only be grasped by those who have learned how to recognize
faint signs.

The process of chemically testing inks for the purpose of ascertaining the points mentioned
is quite simple, and is distinctly interesting. In a very important case the services of a
qualified chemist will probably be requisitioned, but the cost of the necessary material and
the time required to make oneself proficient as a capable tester are so slight that even the
small fee that would be charged by a chemist is scarcely worth paying.

The materials necessary are a few test tubes, some bottles of lime water, diluted muriatic
acid, a solution of nitrate of silver in distilled water, in the proportion of ten grains to
the ounce, some camel hair pencils, and clean white blotting and litmus paper. The whole need
not cost more than half-a-crown.

The method of using these materials is best illustrated by describing a test often needed by
autograph collectors.

A very common method employed by forgers to give an appearance of age to the ink used in spurious
old documents is to mix with ordinary ink, muriatic acid, oxalic acid, or binoxalate of potash.
The presence of these colouring agents can be detected in the following manner.

In the first place, washing the letter with cold water will make the ink become darker if acid
has been used to brown the ink, but the following test will settle the point beyond dispute:

With a camel's-hair brush wash the letter over with warm water. If, as sometimes happens, a
sort of paint or coloured indian ink has been used, this will be immediately washed away and
disappear, leaving a rusty smudge. If not, apply the litmus paper to the wetted ink, and the
presence of acid will be shown in the usual way by the litmus paper changing colour. If genuine,
wetting makes no difference.

Next, pour a drop or two of the water from the writing into a test tube from off the letter,
add a little distilled water and one or two drops of the nitrate of silver solution.

If muriatic acid has been used to colour the ink, a thick white precipitate will be seen in
the tube immediately.

If not, pour a few more drops of the water which has been washed over the writing into a second
test tube, add a little distilled water and a few drops of lime water. A white precipitate
will be seen in the tube if either oxalic acid or binoxalate of potash has been employed.

In many cases it will be sufficient to place the tip of the tongue to a thick stroke. An unmistakable
acid taste will be noticed.

Further and fuller particulars of the methods resorted to by forgers to simulate ancient documents
will be given in the chapter on Autographs.

It is sometimes important to know whether a stroke has been made over another, as in the famous
case in which the real issue turned on the question whether an apparent alteration in a signature
was really a pen-mark made to indicate where the signatory should sign. It was obvious that
if the mark was made first the signature would be over it; if, as was suggested, the mark was
added in an attempt to alter or touch up the signature, it must have been written over the
signature.

In cases of this kind an enlarged photograph leaves no room for doubt. The ink is seen lying
over the lower stroke as plainly as a layer of paint in a picture can be seen overlying the
stroke beneath.

This is one of those apparently difficult points which become marvellously simple when dealt
with in a practical manner.

Pages might be needed to explain what a very simple experiment will reveal at a glance.

Take a word which has been written long enough for the ink to have become dry, and make a stroke
across it. For example, make a letter t without the bar, then, after a lapse of an hour or
two, add the cross bar. When this is quite dry and has become as dark as the first mark, examine
it with a good glass. The ink of the added bar will be seen plainly overlaying the vertical
stroke, but any doubt can be promptly removed by taking an enlarged photograph.

Even when the second stroke is added while the ink on the first is still wet the upper stroke
can be distinguished, though not so clearly as if the first stroke had been allowed to dry first.

By practising and examining such strokes, the student will soon learn to distinguish important
signs which leave no doubt as to which stroke was first made.

CHAPTER XI.

ERASURES.

The alteration of the figures and amount written on a cheque is generally effected by erasure.
At one time chemicals were used for this purpose, but fortunately the modern cheque is forgery-proof
in this respect. No means are known to chemists by which ordinary writing can be removed from
a cheque without leaving a sign too pronounced to escape detection.

But even erasure on a cheque is extremely difficult, and the experienced eye of the average
bank teller can detect it in the vast majority of cases. Frauds perpetrated by this means are
very rare, and are usually the result of gross carelessness on the part of the person accepting
the document so altered.

The more frequent form of cheque fraud is effected by adding to such words as six, seven, eight
and nine. The addition of ty and y is all that is necessary. But the ordinarily careful business
man never leaves sufficient blank space between his words to admit of this addition, while
there are few bank tellers who do not carefully scrutinise a cheque made out for these larger
amounts.

It may be accepted as a satisfactory fact that cheque forgery is not only extremely difficult,
but rarely successful. Great frauds are usually perpetrated by means of other instruments,
such as bills of exchange, credit notes, &c.

An erasure is the easiest thing to detect if looked for. To begin with it is only necessary
to hold a scratched document to the light to have the alteration revealed.

Erasing must of necessity remove part of the surface of the paper which is made noticeably
thinner at the spot erased.

In nearly every case the writing that has been added to the erasure is blurred, owing to the
rough and absorbent character of the paper. Expert forgers have devised means of counteracting
this by rubbing in some substance which partially restores the original smoothness and mitigates
the blurred appearance. But such devices ought not to be successful for they are so easily
detected.

As a matter of fact the only chance the forger of an erased cheque has lies in the carelessness
of the teller. Any crowding of words and unequal spacing in the filling up of a cheque ought
to excite suspicion and provoke careful and closer scrutiny, and, it may be added, it generally
does.

The addition of letters intended to increase the value of a number, such as the adding of ty
to six or seven, is easy of detection if properly looked for.

It is safe to assume that the addition has been made long after the original word was written,
and the point of junction can be detected by the aid of a good glass.

