THE UPWARD PATH

  A READER FOR COLORED
  CHILDREN

  WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY
  ROBERT R. MOTON
  PRINCIPAL OF TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE

  COMPILED BY
  MYRON T. PRITCHARD
  PRINCIPAL, EVERETT SCHOOL, BOSTON

  AND

  MARY WHITE OVINGTON
  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE
  ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE

  NEW YORK
  HARCOURT, BRACE AND HOWE

  COPYRIGHT, 1920, BY
  HARCOURT, BRACE AND HOWE, INC.

FOREWORD

To the present time, there has been no collection of stories and poems by Negro writers, which
colored children could read with interest and pleasure and in which they could find a mirror
of the traditions and aspirations of their race. It is the hope that this little book will
find a large welcome in all sections of the country and will bring good cheer and encouragement
to the young readers who have so largely the fortunes of their race in their own hands.

The editors desire to express thanks to the authors who have generously granted the use of
their work. Especial acknowledgement is due to Mrs. Booker T. Washington for the selection
from Up from Slavery; to The Crisis for "The Rondeau," by Jessie Fauset, "The Brave Son," by
Alston W. Burleigh, "The Black Fairy," by Fenton Johnson, "The Children at Easter," by C. Emily
Frazier, "His Motto," by Lottie B. Dixon, "Negro Soldiers," by Roscoe C. Jamison, "A Legend
of the Blue Jay," by Ruth Anna Fisher; to the American Book Company for "The Dog and the Clever
Rabbit," from Animal Tales, by A. O. Stafford; to Frederick A. Stokes and Company for "A Negro
Explorer at the North Pole," by Matthew A. Henson; to A. C. McClurg and Company for the selection
from Souls of Black Folk, by W. E. B. DuBois; to Henry Holt and Company for the selection from
The Negro, by W. E. B. DuBois; to the Cornhill Company for the selections from The Band of
Gideon, by Joseph F. Cotter, Jr., and The Menace of the South, by William J. Edwards; to Dodd,
Mead and Company for "Ere Sleep Comes Down" and the "Boy and the Bayonet" (copyright 1907),
by Paul Laurence Dunbar.

CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE

  THE BOY AND THE BAYONET                 Paul Laurence Dunbar       1
  BEGINNINGS OF A MISSISSIPPI SCHOOL      William H. Holtzclaw      13
  UP FROM SLAVERY                         Booker T. Washington      15
  BOOKER T. WASHINGTON                    William H. Holtzclaw      20
  ANNA-MARGARET                           Augusta Bird              22
  CHARITY                                 H. Cordelia Ray           28
  MY FIRST SCHOOL                         W. E. B. DuBois           29
  ERE SLEEP COMES DOWN                    Paul Laurence Dunbar      38
  THE LAND OF LAUGHTER                    Angelina W. Grimke        40
  THE WEB OF CIRCUMSTANCE                 Charles W. Chesnutt       47
  IS THE GAME WORTH THE CANDLE?           James E. Shepard          48
  O BLACK AND UNKNOWN BARDS               James Weldon Johnson      54
  THE GREATEST MENACE OF THE SOUTH        William J. Edwards        56
  THE ENCHANTED SHELL                     H. Cordelia Ray           63
  BEHIND A GEORGIA MULE                   James Weldon Johnson      66
  HAYTI AND TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE         W. E. B. DuBois           72
  HIS MOTTO                               Lottie Burrell Dixon      77
  THE MONTHS                              H. Cordelia Ray           86
  THE COLORED CADET AT WEST POINT         Lieut. Henry Ossian
                                              Flipper, U.S.A.        90
  AN HYMN TO THE EVENING                  Phyllis Wheatley          95
  GOING TO SCHOOL UNDER DIFFICULTIES      William H. Holtzclaw      96
  THE BRAVE SON                           Alston W. Burleigh       101
  VICTORY                                 Walter F. White          102
  THE DOG AND THE CLEVER RABBIT           A. O. Stafford           109
  THE BOY AND THE IDEAL                   Joseph S. Cotter         112
  CHILDREN AT EASTER                      C. Emily Frazier         114
  ABRAHAM LINCOLN                         William Pickens          117
  RONDEAU                                 Jessie Fauset            120
  HOW I ESCAPED                           Frederick Douglass       121
  FREDERICK DOUGLASS                      W. H. Crogman            128
  INCIDENT IN THE LIFE OF FREDERICK DOUGLASS                         134
  ANIMAL LIFE IN THE CONGO                William Henry Sheppard   135
  COÖPERATION AND THE LATIN CLASS         Lillian B. Witten        143
  THE BAND OF GIDEON                      Joseph F. Cotter, Jr.    148
  THE HOME OF THE COLORED GIRL BEAUTIFUL  Azalia Hackley           150
  THE KNIGHTING OF DONALD                 Lillian B. Witten        153
  A NEGRO EXPLORER AT THE NORTH POLE      Matthew A. Henson        159
  BENJAMIN BANNEKER                       William Wells Brown      166
  THE NEGRO RACE                          Charles W. Anderson      168
  PAUL CUFFE                              John W. Cromwell         169
  THE BLACK FAIRY                         Fenton Johnson           175
  IT'S A LONG WAY                         William Stanley
                                               Braithwaite          181
  NEGRO MUSIC THAT STIRRED FRANCE         Emmett J. Scott          182
  NOVEMBER 11, 1918                                                  187
  SEA LYRIC                               William Stanley
                                               Braithwaite          189
  A NEGRO WOMAN'S HOSPITALITY             Leila A. Pendleton       190
  RECORD OF "THE OLD FIFTEENTH" IN FRANCE Emmett J. Scott          192
  NEGRO SOLDIERS                          Roscoe C. Jamison        194
  THE "DEVIL BUSH" AND THE "GREEGREE BUSH"  George W. Ellis        195
  EVENING PRAYER                          H. Cordelia Ray          199
  THE STRENUOUS LIFE                      Silas X. Floyd           200
  O LITTLE DAVID, PLAY ON YOUR HARP       Joseph F. Cotter, Jr.    202
  A DAY AT KALK BAY, SOUTH AFRICA         L. J. Coppin             203
  BISHOP ATTICUS G. HAYGOOD               W. H. Crogman            205
  HOW TWO COLORED CAPTAINS FELL           Ralph W. Tyler           207
  THE YOUNG WARRIOR                       James Weldon Johnson     208
  WHOLE REGIMENTS DECORATED               Emmett J. Scott          209
  ON PLANTING ARTICHOKES                  Daniel A. Rudd and
                                               Theodore Bond        210
  A SONG OF THANKS                        Edward Smyth Jones       214
  OUR DUMB ANIMALS                        Silas X. Floyd           216
  A LEGEND OF THE BLUE JAY                Ruth Anna Fisher         218
  DAVID LIVINGSTONE                       Benjamin Brawley         220
  IRA ALDRIDGE                            William J. Simmons       224
  FIFTY YEARS                             James Weldon Johnson     228
  A GREAT KINGDOM IN THE CONGO            William Henry Sheppard   233
  PILLARS OF THE STATE                    William C. Jason         249
  OATH OF AFRO-AMERICAN YOUTH             Kelly Miller             250
  NOTES                                                              251

INTRODUCTION

The Negro has been in America just about three hundred years and in that time he has become
intertwined in all the history of the nation. He has fought in her wars; he has endured hardships
with her pioneers; he has toiled in her fields and factories; and the record of some of the
nation's greatest heroes is in large part the story of their service and sacrifice for this people.

The Negro arrived in America as a slave in 1619, just one year before the Pilgrims arrived
at Plymouth in search of freedom. Since then their lot has not always been a happy one, but
nevertheless, in spite of difficulties and hardships, the race has learned many valuable lessons
in its conflict with the American civilization. As a slave the lessons of labor, of constructive
endeavor, of home-life and religion were learned, even if the opportunity was not always present
to use these lessons to good advantage.

After slavery other lessons were learned in their order. Devoted self-sacrificing souls--soldiers
of human brotherhood--took up the task in the schoolroom which their brothers began on the
battlefield. Here it was that the Negro learned the history of America, of the deeds of her
great men, the stirring events which marked her development, the ideals that made America great.
And so well have they been learned, that to-day there are no more loyal Americans than the
twelve million Negroes that make up so large a part of the nation.

But the race has other things yet to learn: The education of any race is incomplete unless
the members of that race know the history and character of its own people as well as those
of other peoples. The Negro has yet to learn of the part which his own race has played in making
America great; has yet to learn of the noble and heroic souls among his own people, whose achievements
are praiseworthy among any people. A number of books--poetry, history and fiction--have been
written by Negro authors in which the life of their own people has been faithfully and attractively
set forth; but until recently no effort has been made on a large scale to see that Negro boys
and girls became acquainted with these books and the facts they contained concerning their people.

In this volume the publishers have brought together a number of selections from the best literary
works of Negro authors, through which these young people may learn more of the character and
accomplishments of the worthy members of their race. Such matter is both informing and inspiring,
and no Negro boy or girl can read it without feeling a deeper pride in his own race. The selections
are each calculated to teach a valuable lesson, and all make a direct appeal to the best impulses
of the human heart.

For a number of years several educational institutions for Negro youths have conducted classes
in Negro history with a similar object in view. The results of these classes have been most
gratifying and the present volume is a commendable contribution to the literature of such a course.

                                      ROBERT R. MOTON

  TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE, ALA.,
    June 30, 1920

To the man in the tower the world below him is likely to look very small. Men look like ants
and all the bustle and stir of their hurrying lives seems pitifully confused and aimless. But
the man in the street who is looking and striving upward is in a different situation. However
poor his present plight, the thing he aims at and is striving toward stands out clear and distinct
above him, inspiring him with hope and ambition in his struggle upward. For the man who is
down there is always something to hope for, always something to be gained. The man who is down,
looking up, may catch a glimpse now and then of heaven, but the man who is so situated that
he can only look down is pretty likely to see another and quite different place. It seemed
too much to Hannah and "little sister" for them to laugh and shout.

THE BEGINNINGS OF A MISSISSIPPI SCHOOL

WILLIAM H. HOLTZCLAW

I had been unable to get permission to teach in the little church, so I started my school in
the open air. We were out under the big trees amidst the shrubbery. This would have made a
very good schoolhouse but for its size. In such a schoolhouse one could get along very well,
if he could keep his pupils close enough to him, but the chances are, as I have found, that
they will put bugs down one another's collars, and while you are hearing one class the other
children will chase one another about. Their buoyant spirits will not permit them to keep quiet
while they are in the open. It is pretty hard to hear a class reciting and at the same time
to witness a boxing-match, but those who teach in the open air must be prepared for such performances.
These annoyances were accentuated by the fact that some of my pupils were forty years old while
others were six.

After a while we moved into an abandoned house, which we used for a schoolhouse, but it was
little better than teaching out of doors. When it rained the water not only came through the
roof, but through the sides as well. During cold winter rains I had to teach while standing
with my overcoat on and with arctic rubbers to protect myself against pneumonia. During those
rainy days Miss Lee, my assistant, would get up on a bench and stand there all day to keep
her feet out of the water and would have an umbrella stretched over her to keep from getting
wet from above. The little fellows would be standing in the water below like little ducks.
They stood these conditions exceedingly well. Many of them were not protected with overshoes
or any shoes, but they came to school each day just as if they had been properly clad.

It is impossible to describe the hardships that we suffered during that winter, which was severe
for the South. As the winter came on and grew more and more severe a great many of the children
were taken with pneumonia, la grippe, and similar ailments. I wished, in the interest of health,
to abandon the school for a few weeks until better weather; but neither pupils, nor teachers,
nor parents would listen to this, and so the school continued under these circumstances until
the new schoolhouse was ready for use. It is needless to say that some of the pupils never
survived those conditions; in fact, the strange thing is that any of us did.

BOOKER T. WASHINGTON

A STUDENT'S MEMORY OF HIM

WILLIAM H. HOLTZCLAW

One thing about Mr. Washington that impressed me was his regularity. He was as regular as the
clock. He appeared at his office in the morning exactly at eight o'clock, remained until twelve,
very often took part in an Executive Council meeting until one, and then went to lunch. At
two o'clock he would again be in his office and would invariably remain there until half-past
four, when he would leave and tramp across the plantation; sometimes he would run for a mile
or two, as fast as he could go, for exercise. When he returned he would go to his library and
there would pass the time until six, when he would go to dinner. After dinner he played with
the children for a while and then returned to his library until 8.40. He would then go to Chapel
for evening prayers with the whole student body. This prayer service was one that Mr. Washington
seldom ever missed and he always appeared on the rostrum exactly on the minute.

Mr. Washington had a grasp of the details of the work of Tuskegee that seemed almost incredible.
I remember one evening that I was startled to hear my name, together with that of one of my
friends, called out by Mr. Washington from the chapel platform. He simply said, "William Holtzclaw
and Charles Washington may rise." I was so weak in my knees that I could scarcely stand, but
I knew nothing else to do but to rise at the command of that voice. After we stood up and the
whole school was looking at us, Mr. Washington said: "These young men may pass out of the Chapel
and go and pick up the tools they worked with to-day." We had been ditching and when the work-bell
rang had left our tools where we were working, when they should have been carried to the toolhouse.

If the water main, or water pipe, had a defect in it so that it was leaking anywhere on the
grounds, Mr. Washington was almost sure to see that something was wrong and to call the matter
to the attention of the Superintendent of Industries.

If he came into the dining-room while the students were eating their meals, he would notice
such small details as a student's pouring out more molasses on his plate than he could eat
and would stop in the dining-room, send for the matron, have some bread brought to the student,
and wait until that student had eaten all the molasses he had poured on his plate.

If one walked about the campus at night, he would be sure to meet Mr. Washington almost anywhere
on the grounds. For instance, he might be found in the kitchen at two o'clock in the morning
examining the method of preparing the students' breakfast. He seldom seemed to me to take sufficient
rest for an average man.

ANNA-MARGARET

AUGUSTA BIRD

To Anna-Margaret's mind, being the baby of the family was simply awful. This fact seemed to
grow with it each day. It began in the morning when she watched her sisters as they laughed
and rollicked through their dressing.

"Bet I'll beat, and you got on your stockings already," challenged Edith.

"I'll bet you won't,--bet I'll be out to the pump, my face washed, and be at the breakfast
table and you won't have your shoes laced up," boasted Ruth, the older of the two.

"We'll see, we'll see," giggled Edith.

"Oho, I guess you will. Mother gave you new shoe strings," said Ruth somewhat crestfallen.

"I told you so, I told you so," and Edith bounded out of the door, closely pursued by Ruth
who cried: "You didn't beat me but 'bout an inch."

Anna-Margaret was left alone to sit and think for all the next hour how perfectly awful it
was to be the baby, until Mother Dear was able to come and dress her.

The next morning it was the same torture all over again. It seemed to Anna-Margaret that people
never stopped to think or know what a baby was forced to go through. There were Edith and Ruth
racing again. Anna-Margaret spied her shoes and stockings on a chair. Out of the side of her
crib she climbed.

"Look at Anna-Margaret!" screamed Edith.

"You, Anna-Margaret, get right back in that crib!" commanded Ruth assuming her mother's tone.

"I won't!" And right over to the chair where her shoes and stockings were, walked the baby.
She seated herself on the floor and drew on her stocking as if she had been in the habit of
doing it on preceding mornings. It was surprising to Anna-Margaret, herself, the ease with
which it went on.

"Look at that child," gasped Ruth.

Edith looked and said a little grudgingly, "I'll bet she can't put on her shoes though." Edith
remembered how long it was before she was able to put on her shoes, and this accomplishment,
in her mind, seemed to give her a great superiority over her baby sister.

"Come on, Edith," called Ruth, "I'll beat you down to the pump and I'll give you to the rose
bush, too."

Struggling, pulling and twisting sat Anna-Margaret all alone, but the shoe would not go on.
She was just about to give up in utter despair and burst into tears when Mother Dear appeared
in the doorway.

"What is mother's angel doing? Well, well, look at Mother's smart child, she has got on her
stocking already,--here, let mother help her."

It was awful to think you were still such a baby that you couldn't do anything yourself, but
it was very nice, so Anna-Margaret thought, to have such an adorable mother to come to your rescue.

"There now, run out and tell Ruth to wash your face and then mother will give you your breakfast."

"Wash my face, Ruth," requested Anna-Margaret at the pump.

"Who laced up your shoes?" asked Edith suspiciously.

"I did." Anna-Margaret said it so easily that it startled herself.

"I don't believe it, I don't believe it. I am going to ask Mother."

"Hold still, will you, and let me wash your face," commanded Ruth.

As soon as she was free, away went Anna-Margaret back to the house.

"Muvver, Muvver," cried Anna-Margaret almost breathless as she entered the big kitchen, "tell
Edith I laced up my shoes, tell 'er, Muvver, will yo', Muvver?"

Mother stopped her work at the breakfast table. "Anna-Margaret, I could not do that because
you didn't."

"But tell 'er I did, won't you, Muvver," she pleaded.

"Anna-Margaret, I can't do that because I would be telling a lie. Don't I whip Ruth and Edith
for telling lies?"

"Tell a lie, Muvver, tell a lie, I won't whip you."

Mother Dear was forced to smile. "Here, eat your breakfast, I can't promise my baby I will
tell a lie, even if she won't whip me."

Fortunately no one questioned Mother Dear and Anna-Margaret ate her breakfast in silence. Then
kissing her mother in a matter of fact way, she went out to play with her sisters.

"Ah, here comes Anna-Margaret to knock down our things," moaned Edith.

"Let her come on," cried Ruth, "and we'll go down in the bottom and build sand forts; it rained
yesterday and the sand is nice and damp."

"Oh-oo, let's," echoed Edith, and off they scampered. Anna-Margaret saw them and started after
them as fast as her little chubby brown legs could carry her, which wasn't very fast. The other
children were far in front of her. Anna-Margaret stopped suddenly,--she heard a little biddie
in distress. There was a mother hen darting through the grass after a fleeing grasshopper,
and close behind her was the whole flock save one. Anna-Margaret watched them as the young
chickens spread open their wings and hurried in pursuit of their mother. Far behind one little
black, fuzzy biddie struggled and tripped over the tall grass stems. The baby looked at the
little chick and then at the other ones and saw that they were different. She didn't know what
the difference was. She could not understand that the other chickens were several days older
and that this one had only been taken away from its own mother hen that morning in order that
she would remain on her nest until all her chicks were hatched. All Anna-Margaret knew was
that they were different.

"Poor l'll biddie, dey don't want you to play wif them," she sympathized, "come, come to Anna-Margaret."

With little difficulty she captured the young chick and started back to the house.

"Dat's all 'ight, I know what I'm gonna do," she decided, "I'm gonna play Dod. Poor l'll biddie,
just wait, Anna-Margaret'll fix yo', so you can run and fly and keep up with the biddies. Won't
dat be nice, uh?" And she put her curly head down close to the little chick as if to catch
its answer.

Anna-Margaret went straight to the big sewing-basket and placing the biddie on the machine
extracted a threaded needle. Cutting two small pieces of black cloth for wings, she took the
chick and seated herself on the drop-step between the sewing-room and dining-room. She then
attempted to sew one of the little black pieces of cloth to one of the tiny wings of the young
chick.

"There, there, yo'll be all 'ight in dest a minute," she said amid the distressful chirping
of the chick. The biddie's cries brought Mother Dear to the scene.

"Anna-Margaret, what on earth are you doing to the little chicken?"

Anna-Margaret turned her big brown eyes upon her mother. "I'm playin' Dod and I'm puttin' some
wings on des l'll biddie so it can run and fly like the oo-ver ones, and so they won't run
off all the time and leave it."

"But Anna-Margaret, don't you know you are hurting the little biddie?"

"No-o, Muvver," she said slowly, "but I know what it is to be always runned off and lef'."

Mother Dear understood what was in her baby's mind as she gathered her up in her arms. Anna-Margaret
dropped the sewing, cuddled the little biddie close in one arm and clasped her mother's neck
with the other. Mother Dear held her closely.

"I love yo', Muvver Dear," whispered Anna-Margaret.

"I love you, baby dear," was the whispered answer.

Being the baby of the family to Anna-Margaret's mind, just now, was awfully nice.

CHARITY

H. CORDELIA RAY

    I saw a maiden, fairest of the fair,
    With every grace bedight beyond compare.
    Said I, "What doest thou, pray, tell to me!"
    "I see the good in others," answered she.

ERE SLEEP COMES DOWN TO SOOTHE THE WEARY EYES

PAUL LAURENCE DUNBAR

    Ere sleep comes down to soothe the weary eyes,
      Which all the day with ceaseless care have sought
    The magic gold which from the seeker flies;
      Ere dreams put on the gown and cap of thought,
    And make the waking world a world of lies,--
      Of lies most palpable, uncouth, forlorn,
    That say life's full of aches and tears and sighs,--
      Oh, how with more than dreams the soul is torn,
    Ere sleep comes down to soothe the weary eyes.

    Ere sleep comes down to soothe the weary eyes,
      Now all the griefs and heartaches we have known
    Come up like pois'nous vapors that arise
      From some base witch's caldron, when the crone,
    To work some potent spell, her magic plies.
    Through what strange realms and unfamiliar skies
      Tends her far course to lands of mystery?

    When sleep comes down to seal the weary eyes,
     The last dear sleep whose soft embrace is balm,
    And whom sad sorrow teaches us to prize
     For kissing all our passions into calm,
    Ah, then, no more we heed the sad world's cries,
     Or seek to probe th' eternal mystery,
    Or fret our souls at long-withheld replies,
     At glooms through which our visions cannot see,
    When sleep comes down to seal the weary eyes.

THE LAND OF LAUGHTER

ANGELINA W. GRIMKE

Once upon a time there were two dear little boys, and they were all alone in the world. They
lived with a cruel old man and old woman, who made them work hard, very hard--all day, and
beat them when they did not move fast enough, and always, every night, before they went to
bed. They slept in an attic on a rickety, narrow bed, that went screech! screech! whenever
they moved. And, in the summer, they nearly died with the heat up there; and in the winter
with the cold.

One wintry night, when they were both weeping very bitterly after a particularly hard beating,
they suddenly heard a pleasant voice saying:

"Why are you crying, little boys?"

They looked up, and there in the moonlight, by their bed, was the dearest little old lady.
She was dressed all in grey, from the peak of her little pointed hat to her little, buckled
shoes. She held a black cane much taller than her little self. Her hair fell about her ears
in tiny, grey corkscrew curls; and they bobbed about as she moved. Her eyes were black and
bright--as bright as--well, as that lovely, white light in the fire. And her cheeks were as
red as an apple.

"Why are you crying, little boys?" she asked again, in a lovely, low, little voice.

"Because we are tired and sore and hungry and cold; and we are all alone in the world; and
we don't know how to laugh any more. We should so like to laugh again."

"Why, that's easy," she said, "it's just like this," and she laughed a little, joyous, musical
laugh. "Try!" she commanded.

They tried, but their laughing boxes were very rusty and they made horrid sounds.

"Well," she said, "I advise you to pack up, and go away, as soon as you can, to the Land of
Laughter. You'll soon learn there, I can tell you."

"Is there such a land?" they asked doubtfully.

"To be sure there is," she answered, the least bit sharply.

"We never heard of it," they said.

"Well, I'm sure there must be plenty of things you never heard about," she said just the "leastest"
bit more sharply. "In a moment you'll be telling me the flowers don't talk together, and the
birds."

"We never heard of such a thing," they said in surprise, their eyes like saucers.

"There!" she said, bobbing her little curls. "What did I tell you. You have much to learn."

"How do you get to the Land of Laughter?" they asked.

"You go out of the eastern gate of the town, just as the sun is rising; and you take the highway
there, and follow it; and if you go with it long enough, it will bring you to the gate of the
Land of Laughter. It is a long, long way from here; and it will take you many days."

The words had scarcely left her mouth when, lo! the little lady disappeared, and where she
had stood was the white square of moonlight--nothing else.

And without more ado these two little boys put their arms round each other, and fell fast asleep.
And in the grey, just before daybreak, they awoke and dressed; and putting on their little
ragged caps and mittens, for it was a wintry day, they stole out of the house, and made for
the eastern gate. And just as they reached it and passed through, the whole east leapt into fire.

All day they walked, and many days thereafter; and kindly people, by the way, took them in
and gave them food and drink and sometimes a bed at night. Often they slept by the roadside;
but they didn't mind that for the climate was delightful--not too hot, and not too cold. They
soon threw away their ragged little mittens.

They walked for many days; and there was no Land of Laughter. Once they met an old man, richly
dressed, with shining jewels on his fingers, and he stopped them and asked:

"Where are you going so fast, little boys?"

"We are going to the Land of Laughter," they said very gravely.

"That," said the old man, "is a very foolish thing to do. Come with me and I will take you
to the Land of Riches. I will cover you with beautiful garments, and give you jewels and a
castle to live in with servants and horses and many things besides."

And they said to him, "No, we wish to learn how to laugh again; we have forgotten how, and
we are going to the Land of Laughter."

"You will regret not going with me. See if you don't," he said, and he left them in quite a huff.

And they walked again, many days, and again they met an old man. He was tall and imposing-looking
and very dignified. And he said:

"Where are you going so fast, little boys?"

"We are going to the Land of Laughter," they said together very seriously.

"What!" he said, "that is an extremely foolish thing to do. Come with me, and I will give you
power. I will make you great men; generals, kings, emperors. Whatever you desire to accomplish
will be permitted you."

And they said politely:

"Thank you, very much, but we have forgotten how to laugh; and we are going there to learn how."

He looked upon them haughtily, without speaking, and disappeared.

And they walked and walked more days; and they met another old man. And he was clad in rags;
and his face was thin; and his eyes were unhappy. And he whispered to them:

"Where are you going so fast, little boys?"

"We are going to the Land of Laughter," they answered, without a smile.

"Laughter! laughter! that is useless. Come with me and I will show you the beauty of life through
sacrifice, suffering for others. That is the only life. I come from the Land of Sacrifice."

And they thanked him kindly, but said:

"We have suffered enough. We have forgotten how to laugh. We would learn again." And they went
on; and he looked after them wistfully.

They walked more days; and at last they came to the Land of Laughter. And how do you suppose
they knew this? Because they could hear, over the wall, the sound of joyous laughter--the laughter
of men, women and little children.

And one sat guarding the gate, and they went to her.

"We have come a long, long distance; and we would enter the Land of Laughter."

"Let me see you smile, first," she said gently. "I sit at the gate and no one who does not
know how to smile may enter into the Land of Laughter."

And they tried to smile, but could not.

"Go away and practise," she said kindly, "and come back tomorrow."

And they went away, and practised all night how to smile; and, in the morning, they returned.
And the gentle lady at the gate said:

"Dear little boys, have you learned how to smile?"

And they said: "We have tried. How is this?"

"Better," she said, "much better. Practise some more, and come back tomorrow."

And they went away obediently and practised.

And they came the third day. And she said:

"Now, try again."

And tears of delight came into her lovely eyes.

"Those were very beautiful smiles," she said. "Now you may enter."

And she unlocked the gate and kissed them both, and they entered the beautiful Land of Laughter.

Never had they seen such blue skies, such green trees and grass; never had they heard such
bird song.

And people, men, women and children, laughing softly, came to meet them, and took them in,
and made them at home; and soon, very soon, they learned to laugh. All day they laughed, and
even in their sleep. And they grew up here, and married, and had laughing, happy children.
And sometimes they thought of the Land of Riches, and said, "Ah! well"; and sometimes of the
Land of Power, and sighed a little; and sometimes of the Land of Sacrifice--and their eyes
were wistful. But they soon forgot, and laughed again. And they grew old, laughing. And when
they died--a laugh was on their lips. Thus are things in the beautiful Land of Laughter.

THE WEB OF CIRCUMSTANCE

CHARLES W. CHESNUTT

Some time, we are told, when the cycle of years has rolled around, there is to be another golden
age, when all men will dwell together in love and harmony, and when peace and righteousness
shall prevail for a thousand years. God speed the day, and let not the shining thread of hope
become so enmeshed in the web of circumstance that we lose sight of it; but give us here and
there, and now and then, some little foretaste of this golden age, that we may the more patiently
and hopefully await its coming!

IS THE GAME WORTH THE CANDLE?

JAMES E. SHEPARD

A man's life depends upon his emotions, his aspirations, his determinations.

A young man, somebody's son, starts out with the determination that the world is indebted to
him for a good time. "Dollars were made to spend. I am young, and every man must sow his wild
oats and then settle down. I want to be a 'hail fellow well met' with every one."

With this determination uppermost in his life purpose he starts out to be a good-timer. Perhaps
some mother expects to hear great things of her boy, some father's hopes are centered in him,
but what does that matter? "I am a good-timer." From one gayety to another, from one glass
to another, from one sin to another, and the good-timer at last is broken in health, deserted
by friends, and left alone to die. Thus the "man about town" passes off the stage. When you
ask some of his friends about him, the answer is, "Oh, John was all right, but he lived too
fast. I like good times as well as anyone, but I could not keep up with John." Was the game
worth the candle?

Two pictures came before my mind: two cousins, both of them young men. One started out early
in life with the determination of getting along "easy," shirking work, and looking for a soft
snap. His motto was, "The world owes me a living, and I am going to get mine." He was employed
first by one firm and then by another; if anything that he considered hard came along, he would
pay another fellow to do the work and he "took things easy." It was not long before no one
would hire him. He continued to hold the idea that the world was indebted to him and furthermore,
he arrogated a belief that what another man had accumulated he could borrow without his knowledge.
He forged another man's name, was detected, and sentenced to the penitentiary and is now wearing
the badge of felony and shame--the convict's stripes. Is the game worth the candle?

The other cousin started out with a determination altogether different. He believed with Lord
Brougham, that if he were a bootblack he would strive to be the best bootblack in England.
He began in a store as a window-cleaner, and washed windows so well that they sparkled like
diamonds under the sun. As a clerk, no customer was too insignificant to be greeted with a
smile or pleasant word; no task was too great for him to attempt. Thus step by step, he advanced,
each day bringing new duties and difficulties but each day also bringing new strength and determination
to master them, and today that cousin is a man of wealth and an honored citizen, blessed, too,
with a happy home.

Some young men start life with the idea that every dollar made requires that one dollar and
a half shall be spent; in order to be noticed they must make a big show, give big dinners,
carriage drives, and parties, invite friends to the theaters, and have a "swell" time; must
do like Mr. "So-and-So." They forget in their desire to copy, that Mr. "So-and-So," their pattern,
has already made his fortune; that he began to save before he began to spend. But no, his name
appears often in the papers and they think also that theirs must. So they begin their careers.
A few years pass. The young men marry; their debts begin to accumulate and to press them, their
countenances are always woe-begone; where once were smiles, now are frowns, and the homes are
pictures of gloom and shadows. The lesson is plain.

Debt is the greatest burden that can be put upon man; it makes him afraid to look honest men
in the face. No man can be a leader in the fullest sense who is burdened by a great debt. If
there is any young man who is spending more than he is making, let him ask himself the question,
Is the game worth the candle?

I know another young man who believed he could be happy by spending one-third of what he made
and saving the other portion. He said to me, "some day I want to marry and I want to treat
my wife better, if possible, than she was treated at home. I want to respect my fellow man,
I want to be a leader, and I know I can only do so by saving a part of what I make." It was
my good pleasure, a few weeks ago, to visit the city where this young man is practising medicine.
He carried me over that town in an automobile, he entertained me in his $5000 home, he showed
me other property which he owned. Ah, his indeed was a happy home. Life to him was blessedly real.

A young man starts out in life with the determination to fight his way by physical force to
the front ranks. Bruised, disfigured, or killed, he is forced back even beyond the lines again.
A religiously inclined youth asked his pastor, "Do you think it would be wrong for me to learn
the noble art of self-defense?" "Certainly not," replied the pastor, "I learned it in youth
myself, and I have found it of great value in my life." "Indeed, sir, did you learn the Old
English system or the Sullivan system" "Neither; I learned Solomon's system!" replied the minister.
"Yes, you will find it laid down in the first verse of the fifteenth chapter of Proverbs, 'A
soft answer turneth away wrath'; it is the best system of self-defense I know."

Another young man starts life with a wrong idea regarding city and country life. Born in the
country he is free, his thoughts and ambitions can feed on a pure atmosphere, but he thinks
his conditions and his surroundings are circumscribed; he longs for the city, with its bigness,
its turmoil, and its conflicts. He leaves the old homestead, the quiet village, the country
people, and hies himself to the city. He forgets to a large extent the good boy he used to
be, in the desire to keep up with the fashions and to make the people forget that he was once
a country boy. City life, as is often the case, breaks up his youth, destroys his morals, undermines
his character, steals his reputation, and finally leaves the promising youth a wrecked man.
Was the game worth the candle?

Young men, never be ashamed of the old log-cabin in the country, or the old bonnet your mother
used to wear, or the jean pants your father used to toil in. I had rather be a poor country
boy with limited surroundings and a pure heart than to be a city man bedecked in the latest
fashions and weighted down with money, having no morals, no character. I had rather have the
religion and faith of my fathers than to have the highest offices. I had rather have glorious
life, pure and lofty, than to have great riches.

There are two old Dutch words which have resounded through the world, "Neen nimmer," "No, never."
The fleets of Spain heard it, and understood it fully, when they saw the sinking Dutch ships
with the flags nailed to the shattered mainmast, crying, "Neen nimmer," which indicated that
they would never surrender.

Will the young men who are to be the leaders, spend their hours in riotous living? No, never!
Will they be false to duty? No, never! Will they shirk? No, never! Will they be disloyal to
self, to home, to country, and to God? No, never!

Croesus was a rich man, a king. One day Croesus said to Solon, the philosopher, "Do you not
think I am a happy man?" Solon answered, "Alas, I do not know, Croesus; that life is happy
that ends well." A few years later when Croesus had lost his wealth, his kingdom, and his health,
and had been deserted by those who in his days of glory ran to do his slightest bidding, Croesus
in anguish and misery exclaimed, "Solon, Solon, thou saidst truly that life is well and happy
that ends well."

O BLACK AND UNKNOWN BARDS

JAMES WELDON JOHNSON

    O black and unknown bards of long ago,
    How came your lips to touch the sacred fire?
    How, in your darkness, did you come to know
    The power and beauty of the minstrel's lyre?
    Who first from midst his bonds lifted his eyes?
    Who first from out the still watch, lone and long,
    Feeling the ancient faith of prophets rise
    Within his dark-kept soul, burst into song?

    Heart of what slave poured out such melody
    As "Steal away to Jesus"? On its strains
    His spirit must have nightly floated free,
    Though still about his hands he felt his chains.
    Who heard great "Jordan roll"? Whose starward eye
    Saw chariot "swing low"? And who was he
    That breathed that comforting, melodic sigh,
    "Nobody knows de trouble I see?"

    What merely living clod, what captive thing,
    Could up toward God through all its darkness grope,
    And find within its deadened heart to sing
    These songs of sorrow, love, and faith, and hope?
    How did it catch that subtle undertone,
    That note in music heard not with the ears?
    How sound the elusive reed so seldom blown,
    Which stirs the soul or melts the heart to tears.

    Not that great German master in his dream
    Of harmonies that thundered 'mongst the stars
    At the creation, ever heard a theme
    Nobler than "Go down, Moses." Mark its bars,
    How like a mighty trumpet-call they stir
    The blood. Such are the notes that men have sung
    Going to valorous deeds; such tones there were
    That helped make history when Time was young.

    There is a wide, wide wonder in it all,
    That from degraded rest and servile toil
    The fiery spirit of the seer should call
    These simple children of the sun and soil.
    O black slave singers, gone, forgot, unfamed,
    You--you alone, of all the long, long line
    Of those who've sung untaught, unknown, unnamed,
    Have stretched out upward, seeking the divine.

    You sang not deeds of heroes or of kings;
    No chant of bloody war, no exulting pean
    Of arms-won triumphs; but your humble strings
    You touched in chord with music empyrean.
    You sang far better than you knew; the songs
    That for your listeners' hungry hearts sufficed
    Still live,--but more than this to you belongs:
    You sang a race from wood and stone to Christ.

THE GREATEST MENACE OF THE SOUTH

WILLIAM J. EDWARDS

In every age there are great and pressing problems to be solved. There is no effort put forth
on the tenant's part to prevent his farm from washing away.

THE ENCHANTED SHELL

H. CORDELIA RAY

    Fair, fragile Una, golden-haired,
    With melancholy, dark gray eyes,
    Sits on a rock by laughing waves,
    Gazing into the radiant skies;

    And holding to her ear a shell,
    A rosy shell of wondrous form;
    Quite plaintively to her it coos
    Marvelous lays of sea and storm.

    It whispers of a fairy home
    With coral halls and pearly floors,
    Where mermaids clad in glist'ning gold
    Guard smilingly the jeweled doors.

    She listens and her weird gray eyes
    Grow weirder in their pensive gaze.
    The sea birds toss her tangled curls,
    The skiff lights glimmer through the haze.

    Oh, strange sea-singer! what has lent
    Such fascination to thy spell?
    Is some celestial guardian
    Prisoned within thee, tiny shell?

    The maid sits rapt until the stars
    In myriad shining clusters gleam;
    "Enchanted Una," she is called
    By boatmen gliding down the stream.

    The tempest beats the restless seas,
    The wind blows loud, fierce from the skies;
    Sweet, sylph-like Una clasps the shell,
    Peace brooding in her quiet eyes.

    The wind blows wilder, darkness comes,
    The rock is bare, night birds soar far;
    Thick clouds scud o'er the gloomy heav'ns
    Unvisited by any star.

    Where is quaint Una? On some isle,
    Dreaming 'mid music, may she be?
    Or does she listen to the shell
    In coral halls within the sea?

    The boatmen say on stormy nights
    They see rare Una with the shell,
    Sitting in pensive attitude,
    Is it a vision? Who can tell?

BEHIND A GEORGIA MULE

JAMES WELDON JOHNSON

    Now if you wish to travel fast,
    I beg you not to fool
    With locomotion that's procured
    Behind a Georgia mule.

When I was teaching school in the backwoods of Georgia I had, one day, to attend to some business
in Mudville, an embryo city about eleven miles from my school. Now you must know that a country
school teacher can do nothing without first consulting his Board of Trustees; so I notified
that honorable body that there was some business of vast importance to be attended to, and
asked them to meet me on Friday afternoon; they all promised to be on hand "two hours b'sun."
Friday afternoon, after school was dismissed, they came in one by one until they had all gathered.

As the chairman called the meeting to order, he said: "Brederen, de objick ob dis meeting is
to consider de ways ob pervidin de means ob transposin de 'fessar to Mudville." Now, by the
way, the chairman of the Board was undoubtedly intended by nature for a smart man. He had a
very strong weakness for using big words in the wrong place, and thought it his special duty
to impress the "'fessar" at all times with his knowledge of the dictionary. Well, after much
debate it was finally decided that "Brudder" Whitesides would "furnish de mule" and "Brudder
Jinks de buggy" and that I should start early the next morning.

The next morning I was up quite early, because I wished to start as soon as possible in order
to avoid the heat of the day. I ate breakfast and waited--six o'clock, seven o'clock, eight
o'clock--and still that promised beast had not put in appearance. Knowing the proclivity of
the mule to meander along as his own sweet will dictates, especially when the sun shines hot,
I began to despair of reaching Mudville at all that day; but "Brudder" Jinks, with whom I boarded,
seeing my melancholy state of mind, offered to hitch up Gypsy, an antiquated specimen of the
mule, whose general appearance was that of the skeleton of some prehistoric animal one sees
in a museum.

I accepted this proposition with haste, and repented at leisure.

I could see a weary, long-suffering look in that mule's eye, and I could imagine how his heart
must have sought the vicinity of his tail, when they disturbed his dreams of green fields and
pleasant pastures, and hitched him to an old buggy, to encounter the stern realities of a dusty
road. "Verily, verily," I soliloquized, "the way of the mule is hard." But, putting aside all
tender feelings, I jumped into the buggy and grasping a stick of quite ample proportions began
to urge his muleship on his way.

Nothing of much consequence hampered our onward journey except the breaking down of three wheels
and the excessive heat of the sun, which great luminary seemed not more than ninety-five miles
away.

I arrived at Mudville sometime between 12 M. and 6 P. M. After having finished my business
and having bountifully fed my mule on water and what grass he could nibble from around his
hitching post, I bought a large watermelon and started for home. Before I was out of sight
of the town, I began to have serious misgivings about reaching home before a very late hour.
In the morning by various admonitions and applications of the hickory, I had been able to get
my mule into a jog trot, but on the homeward journey he would not even get up a respectable
walk. Well, we trudged on for two hours or more, when to my dismay he stopped,--stopped still.
As the hour was getting late and it was growing dark, I began advising him--with the hickory--that
it was best to proceed, but he seemed to have hardened his heart, and his back also, and paid
me no heed. There I sat--all was as still as the grave, save for the dismal hoot of the screech-owl.
There I was, five and a half miles from home with no prospect of getting there.

I began to coax my mule with some words which perhaps are not in the Sabbath School books,
and to emphasize them with the rising and falling inflection of the stick across his back;
but still he moved not. Then all at once my conscience smote me. I thought perhaps the faithful
beast might be sick. My mind reverted to Balaam, whose beast spoke to him when he had smitten
him but three times and here I had smitten my beast about 3,333 times. I listened almost in
expectation of hearing him say, "Johnson, Johnson, why smitest thou me 3,333 times?"

I got out of the buggy and looked at the mule; he gazed at me with a sad far-away expression
in his eye, which sent pangs of remorse to my heart. I thought of the cruel treatment I had
given him, and on the impulse of the moment I went to the buggy, got out my large, luscious
melon, burst it open and laid it on the ground before the poor animal; and I firmly resolved
to be a friend of the mule ever after, and to join the Humane Society as soon as I reached Atlanta.

As I watched that mule slowly munching away at my melon, I began to wonder if I had not acted
a little too hastily in giving it to him, but I smothered that thought when I remembered the
pledge I had just taken. When he had finished he looked around with a satisfied air which encouraged
me; so I took hold of his bridle and after stroking him gently for a moment, attempted to lead
him off. But he refused to be led. He looked at me from under his shabby eyebrows, but the
sad, far-away expression had vanished and in its stead there was a mischievous gleam, born
of malice afore-thought. I remonstrated with him, but it only seemed to confirm his convictions
that it was right for him to stand there. I thought of my melon he had just devoured; then
I grew wrathy, and right there and then renounced all my Humane Society resolutions, and began
to shower down on that mule torrents of abuse and hickory also, but all to no effect. Instead
of advancing he began to "revance." I pulled on the bridle until my hands and arms were sore,
but he only continued to back and pull me along with him. When I stopped pulling he stopped
backing, and so things went on for the space of about half an hour.

I wondered what time it was. Just then the moon began to rise, from which I knew it was about
9 o'clock. My physical exertion began to tell on me and I hungered. Oh, how I hungered for
a piece of that watermelon! And I hit the mule an extra blow as a result of those longings.

I was now desperate. I sat down on the side of the road and groaned; that groan came from the
depths of my soul, and I know that I presented a perfect picture of despair. However, I determined
to gather all my remaining strength for one final effort; so I caressed him up and down the
backbone two or three times as a sort of persuader, then grasping the bridle with both hands,
I began to pull, pull as I had never pulled before and as I never hope to pull again. And he
began to back. I continued to pull and he continued to back.

How long this order of things might have gone on I do not know, but just then a brilliant idea
struck me so forcibly as to come near knocking me down. I took the mule out, and by various
tying, buckling and tangling, I hitched him up again, upside down, or wrong side out, or, well,
I can't exactly explain, but anyhow when I got through his tail pointed in the direction I
wanted him to go. Then I got back in the buggy and taking hold of the bridle began to pull,
and he began to back; and I continued to pull, and he continued to back; and will you believe
me, that mule backed all the way home! It is true we did not travel very fast but every time
he would slow down, I would put a little extra force into my pull and he would put a little
extra speed into his back. Ever and anon he would glance at me with that mischievous, malicious
twinkle, which seemed to say "I've got you tonight," and I would smile back a quiet, self-satisfied
smile and give an extra pull.

But when we got home, that mischievous, malicious twinkle changed, and he looked at me in a
dazed sort of way and I smiled back quite audibly. And do you know, that mule has been in a
dark brown study ever since. He is trying to get through his slow brain how I managed to make
him pull me home that night.

As I jumped out of the buggy the clock struck twelve. And there at that solemn hour of the
night, as the pale moon shed her silvery beams all around and as the bright stars peeped down
upon me from the ethereal blue, and the gentle zephyrs wafted to me the odor of a hog-pen in
the near distance, I vowed a vow, an awful vow, that so long as I breathed the vital air, never,
no, never again, would I attempt to drive a Georgia mule.

HIS MOTTO

LOTTIE BURRELL DIXON

"But I can't leave my business affairs and go off on a fishing trip now."

The friend and specialist who had tricked John Durmont into a confession of physical bankruptcy,
and made him submit to an examination in spite of himself, now sat back with an "I wash my
hands of you" gesture.

"Very well, you can either go to Maine, now, at once, or you'll go to--well, as I'm only your
spiritual adviser, my prognostications as to your ultimate destination would probably have
very little weight with you."

"Oh, well, if you are so sure, I suppose I can cut loose now, if it comes to a choice like that."

The doctor smiled his satisfaction. "So you prefer to bear the ills of New York than to fly
to others you know not of, eh?"

"Oh, have a little mercy on Shakespeare, at least. I'll go."

And thus it was that a week later found Durmont as deep in the Maine woods as he could get
and still be within reach of a telegraph wire. And much to his surprise he found he liked it.

As he lay stretched at full length on the soft turf, the breath of the pines filled his lungs,
the lure of the lake made him eager to get to his fishing tackle, and he admitted to himself
that a man needed just such a holiday as this in order to keep his mental and physical balance.

Returning to the gaily painted frame building, called by courtesy the "Hotel," which nestled
among the pines, he met the youthful operator from the near-by station looking for him with
a message from his broker. A complicated situation had arisen in Amalgamated Copper, and an
immediate answer was needed. Durmont had heavy investments in copper, though his business was
the manufacture of electrical instruments.

He walked back to the office with the operator while pondering the answer, then having written
it, handed it to the operator saying, "Tell them to rush answer."

The tall lank youth, whose every movement was a protest against being hurried, dragged himself
over to the telegraph key.

"'S open."

"What's open?"

"Wire."

"Well, is that the only wire you have?"

"Yep."

"What in the world am I going to do about this message?"

"Dunno, maybe it will close bime-by." And the young lightning slinger pulled towards him a
lurid tale of the Wild West, and proceeded to enjoy himself.

"And meanwhile, what do you suppose is going to happen to me?" thundered Durmont. "Haven't
you ambition enough to look around your wire and see if you can find the trouble?"

"Lineman's paid to look up trouble; I'm not," was the surly answer.

Durmont was furious, but what he was about to say was cut off by a quiet voice at his elbow.

"I noticed linemen repairing wires upon the main road, that's where this wire is open. If you
have any message you are in a hurry to send, perhaps I can help you out."

Durmont turned to see a colored boy of fifteen whose entrance he had not noticed.

"What can you do about it?" he asked contemptuously, "take it into town in an ox team?"

"I can send it by wireless, if that is sufficiently quick."

Durmont turned to the operator at the table.

"Is there a wireless near here?"

"He owns one, you'll have to do business with him on that," said the youth with a grin at Durmont's
unconcealed prejudice.

It would be hard to estimate the exact amount of respect, mingled with surprise, with which
the city man now looked at the boy whose information he had evidently doubted till confirmed
by the white boy.

"Suppose you've got some kind of tom-fool contraption that will take half a day to get a message
into the next village. Here I stand to lose several thousands because this blame company runs
only one wire down to this camp. Where is this apparatus of yours? Might as well look at it
while I'm waiting for this one-wire office to get into commission again."

"It's right up on top of the hill," answered the colored boy. "Here, George, I brought down
this wireless book if you want to look it over, it's better worth reading than that stuff you
have there," and tossing a book on the table he went out, followed by Durmont.

A couple of minutes' walk brought them in sight of the sixty-foot aerial erected on the top
of a small shack.

"Not much to look at, but I made it all myself."

"How did you happen to construct this?" And Durmont really tried to keep the emphasis off the
"you."

"Well, I'm interested in all kinds of electrical experiments, and have kept up reading and
studying ever since I left school, then when I came out here on my uncle's farm, he let me
rig up this wireless, and I can talk to a chum of mine down in the city. And when I saw the
wire at the station was gone up, I thought I might possibly get your message to New York through
him."

They had entered the one-room shack which contained a long table holding a wireless outfit,
a couple of chairs and a shelf of books. On the walls were tacked pictures of aviators and
drawings of aeroplanes. A three-foot model of a biplane hung in a corner.

"Now if he is only in," said the boy, going over to the table and giving the call.

"He's there," he said eagerly, holding out his hand for the message.

Durmont handed it to him. His face still held the look of doubt and unbelief as he looked at
the crude, home-made instruments.

"Suppose I might as well have hired a horse and taken it into town." But the sputtering wire
drowned his voice.

"And get on your wheel and go like blazes. Tell 'em to rush answer. This guy here thinks a
colored boy is only an animated shoe-blacking outfit; it's up to us to remedy that defect in
his education, see!" Thus sang the wires as Durmont paced the floor.

"I said," began the nervous man as the wires became quiet. "I--" again the wire sputtered,
and he couldn't hear himself talk. When it was quiet, he tried again, but as soon as he began
to grumble, the wire began to sputter. He glanced suspiciously at the boy, but the latter was
earnestly watching his instruments.

"Say," shouted Durmont, "does that thing have to keep up that confounded racket all the time?"

"I had to give him some instructions, you know, and also keep in adjustment."

"Well, I'll get out of adjustment myself if that keeps up."

Durmont resigned himself to silence, and strangely enough, so did the wire. Walking around
the room he noticed over the shelf of books a large white sheet on which was printed in gilt
letters:

     "I WILL STUDY AND MAKE READY, AND MAYBE MY CHANCE WILL COME."

                                             --ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Durmont read this, and then looked at the boy as if seeing him for the first time. Again he
looked at the words, and far beyond them he saw his own struggling boyhood, climbing daily
Life's slippery path, trying to find some hold by which to pull himself up. And as he watched
the brown-skinned boy bending over the instruments, instinct told him here was one who would
find it still harder to fight his way up, because of caste.

"Ah!"

The exclamation startled him. The boy with phones adjusted was busily writing.

"Well, has that partner of yours got that message down at his end yet?"

"Yes, sir, and here is your answer from New York."

"Why it's only been half an hour since I wrote it," said Durmont.

"Yes, that horse wouldn't have got into town yet," grinned the boy.

Durmont snatched the paper, read it, threw his cap in the air, exclaiming, "The day is saved.
Boy, you're a winner. How much?" putting his hand in his pocket suggestively.

"How much you owe to my help, I don't know," answered the lad sagely. "I offered to help you
because you needed it, and I was glad of the chance to prove what I believed I could do. I'm
satisfied because I succeeded."

Durmont sat down heavily on the other chair; his nerves couldn't stand much more in one afternoon.
To find himself threatened with a large financial loss; to have this averted by the help of
the scientific knowledge of a colored boy, and that boy rating the fact of his success higher
than any pecuniary compensation--he had to pull himself together a bit.

His eyes fell on the motto on the wall. He read it thoughtfully, considered how hard the boy
had worked because of that, his hopes of the future based on that; saw the human element in
him as it had not appealed to him before, and then turning something over in his mind, muttered
to himself, "It's nobody's business if I do."

He got up, and walking over to the boy said: "What's your name?"

"Robert Hilton."

"Well, Robert, that motto you've got up there is a pretty good one to tie to. You certainly
have studied; you have made yourself ready as far as your resources will permit, and I'll be
hanged if I don't stand for the 'chance.' In the manufacturing of electrical instruments you
could have great opportunity for inventive talent, and in my concern you shall have your chance,
and go as far as your efficiency will carry you. What do you say, would you care for it?"

"I'd care for it more than any other thing on earth, and am very grateful for the chance."

"The chance wouldn't be standing here now if you had not had the inclination and the determination
to live up to those words on the wall."

THE MONTHS

H. CORDELIA RAY

    JANUARY

    To herald in another year,
      With rhythmic note the snowflakes fall
    Silently from their crystal courts,
      To answer Winter's call.
    Wake, mortal! Time is winged anew!
      Call Love and Hope and Faith to fill
    The chambers of thy soul to-day;
      Life hath its blessings still!

    FEBRUARY

    The icicles upon the pane
      Are busy architects; they leave
    What temples and what chiseled forms
      Of leaf and flower! Then believe
    That though the woods be brown and bare,
      And sunbeams peep through cloudy veils,
    Though tempests howl through leaden skies,
      The springtime never fails!

    MARCH

      Robin! Robin! call the Springtime!
       March is halting on his way;
      Hear the gusts. What! snowflakes falling!
        Look not for the grass to-day.
        Ay, the wind will frisk and play,
        And we cannot say it nay.

    APRIL

    She trips across the meadows,
        The weird, capricious elf!
    The buds unfold their perfumed cups
        For love of her sweet self;
    And silver-throated birds begin to tune their lyres,
    While wind-harps lend their strains to Nature's magic choirs.

    MAY

    Sweet, winsome May, coy, pensive fay,
      Comes garlanded with lily-beds,
    And apple blooms shed incense through the bow'r,
      To be her dow'r;
      While through the deafy dells
      A wondrous concert swells
    To welcome May, the dainty fay.

    JUNE

    Roses, roses, roses,
    Creamy, fragrant, dewy!
      See the rainbow shower!
    Was there e'er so sweet a flower?

    I'm the rose-nymph, June they call me.
      Sunset's blush is not more fair
      Than the gift of bloom so rare,
    Mortal, that I bring to thee!

    JULY

    Sunshine and shadow play amid the trees
      In bosky groves, while from the vivid sky
    The sun's gold arrows fleck the fields at noon,
      Where weary cattle to their slumber hie.
    How sweet the music of the purling rill,
    Trickling adown the grassy hill!
    While dreamy fancies come to give repose
    When the first star of evening glows.

    AUGUST

    Haste to the mighty ocean,
      List to the lapsing waves;
    With what a strange commotion
      They seek their coral caves.
    From heat and turmoil let us oft return,
    The ocean's solemn majesty to learn.

    SEPTEMBER

    With what a gentle sound
    The autumn leaves drop to the ground;
    The many-colored dyes,
    They greet our watching eyes.
    Rosy and russet, how they fall!
    Throwing o'er earth a leafy pall.

    OCTOBER

    The mellow moon hangs golden in the sky,
      The vintage song is over, far and nigh
    A richer beauty Nature weareth now,
    And silently, in reverence we bow
      Before the forest altars, off'ring praise
    To Him who sweetness gives to all our days.

    NOVEMBER

    The leaves are sere,
    The woods are drear,
    The breeze that erst so merrily did play,
    Naught giveth save a melancholy lay;
    Yet life's great lessons do not fail
    E'en in November's gale.

    DECEMBER

    List! list! the sleigh bells peal across the snow;
    The frost's sharp arrows touch the earth and lo!
    How diamond-bright the stars do scintillate
    When Night hath lit her lamps to Heaven's gate.
    To the dim forest's cloistered arches go,
    And seek the holly and the mistletoe;
    For soon the bells of Christmas-tide will ring
    To hail the Heavenly King!

AN HYMN TO THE EVENING

PHYLLIS WHEATLEY

    Soon as the sun forsook the eastern main
    The pealing thunder shook the heav'nly plain;
    Majestic grandeur! From the zephyr's wing,
    Exhales the incense of the blooming spring.
    Soft purl the streams, the birds renew their notes,
    And through the air their mingled music floats,
    Through all the heav'ns what beauteous dyes are spread!
    But the west glories in the deepest red;
    So may our breasts with every virtue glow
    The living temples of our God below!
    Filled with the praise of him who gave the light,
    And draws the sable curtains of the night,
    Let placid slumbers soothe each weary mind,
    At morn to wake more heaven'ly, more refin'd.
    So shall the labors of the day begin
    More pure, more guarded from the snares of sin.
    Nights' leaden sceptor seal my drowsy eyes,
    When cease my song, till fair Aurora rise.

GOING TO SCHOOL UNDER DIFFICULTIES

WILLIAM H. HOLTZCLAW

When I was four years old I was put to work on the farm,--that is, at such work as I could
do, such as riding a deaf and blind mule while my brother held the plow. When I was six years
old my four-year-old brother and I had to go two miles through a lonely forest every morning
in order to carry my father's breakfast and dinner to a sawmill, where he was hauling logs
for sixty cents a day. The white man, Frank Weathers, who employed a large number of hands,
both Negroes and whites, was considered one of the best and most upright men in that section
of the country.

In those days there were no public schools in that part of the country for the Negroes. Indeed,
public schools for whites were just beginning to be established. This man set aside a little
house in the neighborhood of the sawmill, employed a teacher, and urged all the Negroes to
send their children to this school. Not a great many of them, however, took advantage of his
generosity, for this was at the time when everybody seemed to think that the Negro's only hope
was in politics.

But my father and mother had great faith in education, and they were determined that their
children should have that blessing of which they themselves had been deprived.

Soon, however, Mr. Weathers had cut all the timber that he could get in that section, and he
therefore moved his mills to another district. This left us without a school. But my father
was not to be outdone. He called a meeting of the men in that community, and they agreed to
build a schoolhouse themselves. They went to the forest and cut pine poles about eight inches
in diameter, split them in halves, and carried them on their shoulders to a nice shady spot,
and there erected a little schoolhouse. The benches were made of the same material, and there
was no floor nor chimney. Some of the other boys' trousers suffered when they sat on the new
pine benches, which exuded rosin, but I had an advantage of them in this respect, for I wore
only a shirt. In fact, I never wore trousers until I got to be so large that the white neighbors
complained of my insufficient clothes.

At the end of the first school year there was a trying time in our family. On this occasion
the teacher ordered all the pupils to appear dressed in white. We had no white clothes, nor
many of any other sort, for that matter. Father and mother discussed our predicament nearly
all one night. Father said it was foolish to buy clothes which could be used for that occasion
only. But my ever resourceful mother was still determined that her children should look as
well on this important occasion as any of our neighbors. However, when we went to bed the night
before the exhibition we still had no white clothes and no cloth from which to make them. Nevertheless,
when we awoke the next morning, all three of us had beautiful white suits.

It came about in this way. My mother had a beautiful white Sunday petticoat, which she had
cut up and made into suits for us. As there is just so much cloth in a petticoat and no more,
the stuff had to be cut close to cover all of us children, and as the petticoat had been worn
several times and was, therefore, likely to tear, we had to be very careful how we stooped
in moving about the stage, lest there should be a general splitting and tearing, with consequences
that we were afraid to imagine. At the exhibitions the next night we said our little pieces,
and I suppose we looked about as well as the others; at least we thought so, and that was sufficient.
One thing I am sure of,--there was no mother there who was prouder of her children than ours.
The thing that made her so pleased was the fact that my speech made such an impression that
our white landlord lifted me off the stage when I had finished speaking and gave me a quarter
of a dollar.

If there happened to be a school in the winter time, I had sometimes to go bare-footed and
always with scant clothing. Our landlady was very kind in such cases. She would give me clothes
that had already been worn by her sons, and in turn I would bring broom straw from the sedges,
with which she made her brooms. In this way I usually got enough clothes to keep me warm.

So, with my mother's encouragement, I went to school in spite of my bare feet. Often the ground
would be frozen, and often there would be snow. My feet would crack and bleed freely, but when
I reached home Mother would have a tub full of hot water ready to plunge me into and thaw me
out. Although this caused my feet and legs to swell, it usually got me into shape for school
the next day.

I remember once, when I had helped "lay by" the crops at home and was ready to enter the little
one-month school, it was decided that I could not go, because I had no hat. My mother told
me that if I could catch a 'coon and cure the skin, she would make me a cap out of that material.
That night I went far into the forest with my hounds, and finally located a 'coon. The 'coon
was a mighty fighter, and when he had driven off all my dogs I saw that the only chance for
me to get a cap was to whip the 'coon myself, so together with the dogs I went at him, and
finally we conquered him. The next week I went to school wearing my new 'coon-skin cap.

Exertions of this kind, from time to time, strengthened my will and my body, and prepared me
for more trying tests which were to come later.

As I grew older it became more and more difficult for me to go to school. When cotton first
began to open,--early in the fall,--it brought a higher price than at any other time of the
year. At this time the landlord wanted us all to stop school and pick cotton. But Mother wanted
me to remain in school, so, when the landlord came to the quarters early in the morning to
stir up the cotton pickers, she used to outgeneral him by hiding me behind the skillets, ovens,
and pots, throwing some old rags over me until he was gone. Then she would slip me off to school
through the back way. I can see her now with her hands upon my shoulder, shoving me along through
the woods and underbrush, in a roundabout way, keeping me all the time out of sight of the
great plantation until we reached the point, a mile away from home, where we came to the public
road. There my mother would bid me good-bye, whereupon she would return to the plantation and
try to make up to the landlord for the work of us both in the field as cotton pickers.

THE BRAVE SON

ALSTON W. BURLEIGH

    A little boy, lost in his childish play,
    Mid the deep'ning shades of the fading day,
    Fancied the warrior he would be;
    He scattered his foes with his wooden sword
    And put to flight a mighty horde--
    Ere he crept to his daddy's knee.

    A soldier crawled o'er the death-strewn plain,
    And he uttered the name of his love, in vain,
    As he stumbled over the crest;
    He fought with the fierceness of dark despair
    And drove the cowering foe to his lair--
    Ere he crept to his Father's breast.

VICTORY

WALTER F. WHITE

"Now, Ted, just forget they're after you and remember you've got ten men out there with you.
Fight 'em and fight 'em hard, but hold that man-eating temper of yours. If you don't, we're lost."

Dawson, varsity coach of Bliss University, affectionately known and revered by two thousand
undergraduates as "Skipper Bill" sat in the locker room with his arm around Ted Robertson's
shoulders, star halfback and punter of the varsity eleven. Around them moved the other varsity
players, substitutes, second string men, trainers and rubbers.

In the stands overhead every seat was taken, for these were the last few minutes before the
big game of the year--the annual battle with Sloan College. On one side the sober blues and
grays and blacks formed a background for huge yellow chrysanthemums and light blue ribbons,
the Bliss colors, and the same background in the stands opposite set off the crimson of Sloan
College.

The rival college bands of the two most important colored universities of the United States
blared almost unheeded in the din, while agile cheerleaders clad in white from head to foot
performed gymnastics in leading rolling volumes of cheers. All were in that tense, nerve-gripping
mood prior to that game in which victory or defeat meant success or failure of the season's
efforts of the teams of young giants that represented the two schools.

In the locker room, however, a different scene was being enacted. Every man was acting according
to his own temperament and each in his own way attempted to hide the anxious thrill that every
real football player feels before "the big game."

Jimmy Murray, quarterback and thrower of forward passes par excellence, nervously tied and
untied his shoe laces a dozen times; "Tiny" Marshall, left tackle, who weighed two hundred
and ten pounds, tried to whistle nonchalantly and failed miserably, while "Bull" Bascom, fullback,
the only calm man in the room, was carefully adjusting his shoulder pads. Around them hovered
the odor of arnica and liniment mixed with the familiar tang of perspiration which has dried
in woolen jerseys--perspiration that marked many a long and wearisome hour of training and
perfection of the machine that to-day received its final "exam."

Ted Robertson, the man around whom most of the team's offense was built, sat listening to Dawson's
advice. Born with a fiery, almost unmanageable temper, his reckless, dauntless spirit had made
him a terror to opposing teams. Strong was the line that could check his plunges, and fleet
were the ends who could tackle him when once he got loose in an open field. Recognizing his
phenomenal ability, both coach and players gave him the credit due him and consciously or unconsciously
relied on him as the team's best player.

But to-day Sloan had declared that they were going to put Robertson out of the game and threats
had been freely uttered that before the game had been going very long he "would be in the hospital."
This news added to the tenseness of feeling. If Robertson should be put out of the game, or
if he should lose his temper the chances of a victory for Bliss were slim indeed, for rarely
had two teams been so evenly matched in skill and brain and brawn. Thus the final pleading
of Dawson to Robertson to "hold that temper."

A roar of cheers greeted their ears as the red jerseyed Sloan team took the field. Led by Murray
the Bliss players were likewise greeted by a storm of applause as they trotted out on the field
and the varsity started through a brisk signal drill.

In a few minutes the referee called the rival captains to the center of the field. Sloan won
the toss and elected to defend the south goal, kicking off with the wind behind its back. A
breathless hush--the shrill whistle of the referee--the thump of cleated shoe against the ball
and the game was on.

The teams, wonderfully even in strength and in knowledge of the game, surged back and forth,
the ball repeatedly changing hands as one team would hold the other for downs. From the kick-off,
the Sloan players began their attempts to injure or anger Robertson. Vicious remarks were aimed
at him while the referee was not near enough to hear.

When Robertson carried the ball and after he was downed under a mass of players, a fist would
thud against his jaw or hard knuckles would be rubbed across his nose. Once when an opposing
player had fallen across Robertson's right leg, another of his opponents seized his ankle and
turned it. Though he fought against it, his temper was slowly but surely slipping away from him.

For three hectic quarters, with the tide of victory or defeat now surging towards Bliss--now
towards Sloan, the battle raged. As play after play of brilliance or superbrilliance flashed
forth, the stands alternately groaned or cheered, according to the sympathies of each. Robertson,
a veritable stonewall of defense, time and again checked the rushes of the Sloan backs or threw
himself recklessly at fleet backs on end runs when his own ends had failed to "get their man."
On the offensive he repeatedly was called on to carry the ball and seldom did he fail to make
the distance required.

A great weariness settled on Robertson and it was with difficulty that he was able to fight
off a numbness and dizziness that almost overcame him. One thing sustained him. It was a bitter
resentment against those who sought to hurt him. The fires within him had grown until they
became a flaming, devastating thing that burned its way into his brain. It needed only a spark
to make him forget the game, school, the coach and everything else. Yet even as he realized
this he knew that if he did lose his temper, Bliss might as well concede the victory to Sloan.
It was not conceit that caused him to know this and admit it but the clearness of vision that
comes oft-times in a moment of greatest mental strain.

Finally, with the score still tied, neither side having scored, the time keeper warned the
rival teams that only three minutes remained for play. His warning served to cause a tightening
of muscles and a grimness of countenance in a last final effort to put over a score and avert
a tied score. The huge crowd prayed fervently for a score--a touchdown--a safety--a goal from
field or placement--anything.

It was Sloan's ball on Bliss's forty-five-yard line. Only a fumble or some fluke could cause
a score. Every player was on his mettle burning with anxiety to get his hands on that ball
and scamper down the field to a touchdown and everlasting fame in the annals of his school's
football history.

In a last desperate effort, the Bliss quarterback called a trick play. It started out like
a quarterback run around left end. The Bliss left end ran straight down the field after delaying
the man playing opposite him. When the Bliss quarter had made a wide run drawing in the Sloan
secondary defense, he turned and like a flash shot a long forward pass over the heads of the
incoming Sloan backfield to the end who had gone straight down the field and who was practically
free of danger of being tackled by any of the Sloan backs.

Too late the Sloan players saw the ruse. Only Robertson was between the swift running end and
a score. With grim satisfaction, his face streaked with perspiration, drawn and weary with
the long hard struggle and the yeoman part he had played in it, Robertson saw that the man
with the ball was the one player on the opposing side who had done most of the unfair playing
in trying to put Robertson out of the game. All of the bitterness--all of the anger in his
heart swelled up and he determined to overtake the end, prevent the score and tackle the man
so viciously that he would be certain to break an arm or a leg. Robertson dug his cleats in
the spongy turf with a phenomenal burst of speed, rapidly overtook his man, driving him meanwhile
towards the sidelines.

At last the moment came. By making a flying tackle, which would be illegal but which he hoped
the referee would not see, Robertson could get his man and get him in such fashion that he
would have no chance of escaping injury. Robertson crouched for the spring. A fierce light
came into his eyes. In a flash he saw the end whom he now hated with an intensity that wiped
every thought from his mind except that of revenge, lying prone on the ground.

But even as he gloated over his revenge, the words of Bill Dawson came to him, "Hold that man-eating
temper of yours." In a lightning-like conflict, the impulse to injure fought a desperate battle
with the instinct of clean playing. His decision was made in a moment. Instead of making the
vicious flying tackle, he ran all the faster, but the end was too swift and had too great a
lead. Amid the frantically jubilant shouts of the Bliss rooters and the painful silence of
the Sloan supporters the end went across the line for a touchdown just as time was up.

A gloom pervaded the dressing rooms of the Sloan team after the game. Robertson was in disgrace.
Forgotten was the playing through most of the game. Forgotten were his desperate tackles that
had saved the game more than once. Forgotten were the long runs and the hard line plunges that
time and again had made first downs for his team. Only the fact that he had apparently failed
in the last minute remained. Only Dawson and Robertson knew that it was not cowardice, that
most detested of all things in athletics, in life itself, had caused Robertson to refuse to
make that last dangerous, illegal flying tackle.

But in the heart of Robertson there was a strange peace. Being human, he naturally resented
the discernible thoughts in the minds of his comrades of many a hard-fought battle. But a calmness
made him forgetful of all this for he knew that at last, in a moment of the supreme test, he
had conquered that which had been his master throughout all of his life--his temper. All the
slurs and coldness in the world could not rob him of the satisfaction of this.

THE DOG AND THE CLEVER RABBIT

A. O. STAFFORD

There were many days when the animals did not think about the kingship. They thought of their
games and their tricks, and would play them from the rising to the setting of the sun.

Now, at that time, the little rabbit was known as a very clever fellow. His tricks, his schemes,
and his funny little ways caused much mischief and at times much anger among his woodland cousins.

At last the wolf made up his mind to catch him and give him a severe punishment for the many
tricks he had played upon him.

Knowing that the rabbit could run faster than he, the wolf called at the home of the dog to
seek his aid. "Brother dog, frisky little rabbit must be caught and punished. For a nice bone
will you help me?" asked the wolf.

"Certainly, my good friend," answered the dog, thinking of the promised bone.

"Be very careful, the rabbit is very clever," said the wolf as he left.

A day or so later while passing through the woods the dog saw the rabbit frisking in the tall
grass. Quick as a flash the dog started after him. The little fellow ran and, to save himself,
jumped into the hollow of an oak tree. The opening was too small for the other to follow and
as he looked in he heard only the merry laugh of the frisky rabbit, "Hee, hee! hello, Mr. Dog,
you can't see me."

"Never mind, boy, I will get you yet," barked the angry dog.

A short distance from the tree a goose was seen moving around looking for her dinner.

"Come, friend goose, watch the hollow of this tree while I go and get some moss and fire to
smoke out this scamp of a rabbit," spoke the dog, remembering the advice of the wolf.

"Of course I'll watch, for he has played many of his schemes upon me," returned the bird.

When the dog left, the rabbit called out from his hiding place, "How can you watch, friend
goose, when you can't see me?"

"Well, I will see you then," she replied. With these words she pushed her long neck into the
hollow of the tree. As the neck of the goose went into the opening the rabbit threw the dust
of some dry wood into her eyes.

"Oh, oh, you little scamp, you have made me blind," cried out the bird in pain.

Then while the goose was trying to get the dust from her eyes the rabbit jumped out and scampered
away.

In a short while the dog returned with the moss and fire, filled the opening, and, as he watched
the smoke arise, barked with glee, "Now I have you, my tricky friend, now I have you." But
as no rabbit ran out the dog turned to the goose and saw from her red, streaming eyes that
something was wrong.

"Where is the rabbit, friend goose?" he quickly asked.

"Why, he threw wood dust into my eyes when I peeped into the opening." At once the dog knew
that the rabbit had escaped and became very angry.

"You silly goose, you foolish bird with web feet, I will kill you now for such folly." With
these words the dog sprang for the goose, but only a small feather was caught in his mouth
as the frightened bird rose high in the air and flew away.

THE BOY AND THE IDEAL

JOSEPH S. COTTER

Once upon a time a Mule, a Hog, a Snake, and a Boy met. Said the Mule: "I eat and labor that
I may grow strong in the heels. It is fine to have heels so gifted. My heels make people cultivate
distance."

Said the Hog: "I eat and labor that I may grow strong in the snout. It is fine to have a fine
snout. I keep people watching for my snout."

"No exchanging heels for snouts," broke in the Mule.

"No," answered the Hog; "snouts are naturally above heels."

Said the Snake: "I eat to live, and live to cultivate my sting. The way people shun me shows
my greatness. Beget stings, comrades, and stings will beget glory."

Said the Boy: "There is a star in my life like unto a star in the sky. I eat and labor that
I may think aright and feel aright. These rounds will conduct me to my star. Oh, inviting star!"

"I am not so certain of that," said the Mule. "I have noticed your kind and ever see some of
myself in them. Your star is in the distance."

The Boy answered by smelling a flower and listening to the song of a bird. The Mule looked
at him and said: "He is all tenderness and care. The true and the beautiful have robbed me
of a kinsman. His star is near."

Said the Boy: "I approach my star."

"I am not so certain of that," interrupted the Hog. "I have noticed your kind and I ever see
some of myself in them. Your star is a delusion."

The Boy answered by painting the flower and setting the notes of the bird's song to music.

The Hog looked at the boy and said: "His soul is attuned by nature. The meddler in him is slain."

"I can all but touch my star," cried the Boy.

"I am not so certain of that," remarked the Snake. "I have watched your kind and ever see some
of myself in them. Stings are nearer than stars."

The Boy answered by meditating upon the picture and music. The Snake departed, saying that
stings and stars cannot keep company.

The Boy journeyed on, ever led by the star. Some distance away the Mule was bemoaning the presence
of his heels and trying to rid himself of them by kicking a tree. The Hog was dividing his
time between looking into a brook and rubbing his snout on a rock to shorten it. The Snake
lay dead of its own bite. The Boy journeyed on, led by an ever inviting star.

CHILDREN AT EASTER

C. EMILY FRAZIER

    That day in old Jerusalem when Christ our Lord was slain,
    I wonder if the children hid and wept in grief and pain;
    Dear little ones, on whose fair brows His tender touch had been,
    Whose infant forms had nestled close His loving arms within.

    I think that very soberly went mournful little feet
    When Christ our Lord was laid away in Joseph's garden sweet,

    And wistful eyes grew very sad and dimpled cheeks grew white,
    When He who suffered babes to come was prisoned from the light.

    With beaming looks and eager words a glad surprise He gave
    To those who sought their buried Lord and found an empty grave;
    For truly Christ had conquered death, Himself the Prince of Life,
    And none of all His Followers shall fail in any strife.

    O little ones, around the cross your Easter garlands twine,
    And bring your precious Easter gifts to many a sacred shrine,
    And, better still, let offerings of pure young hearts be given
    On Easter Day to Him who reigns the King of earth and heaven.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN

WILLIAM PICKENS

He was the first President of the Republic who was American through and through. There was
not one foreign element in his bringing up; he was an unmixed child of the Western plains,
born in the South, reared in the North. Most of the Presidents before him, being reared nearer
the Atlantic, had imbibed more or less of Eastern culture and had European airs. This man Lincoln
was so thoroughly democratic as to astonish both Old and New England. He never acted "the President,"
and was always a man among men, the honored servant of the people.

From a five-dollar fee before a justice of the peace, he had risen to a five-thousand-dollar
fee before the Supreme Court of Illinois. From a study of "Dilworth's Spelling Book" in his
seventh year, he had risen to write, in his fifty-seventh year, his second Inaugural, which
is the greatest utterance of man, and yet all of his days in school added together are less
than one year. His pioneer life had given him a vein of humor which became his "Life-preserver"
in times of stress; it had also given him a love for human liberty that was unaffected. He
felt that the enslavement of some men was but the advance guard, the miner and sapper, of the
enslavement of all men.

From a poor captain of volunteers in the scandalous little Black Hawk War, where he jokingly
said he "bled, died, and came away," although he never had a skirmish nor saw an Indian, he
had risen to the chief command in a war that numbered three thousand battles and skirmishes
and cost three billion dollars. Having no ancestry himself, being able to trace his line by
rumor and tradition only as far back as his grandfather, he became, like George Washington,
the Father of his Country. Born of a father who could not write his name, he himself had written
the Proclamation of Emancipation, the fourth great state paper in the history of the Anglo-Saxon
race,--the others being Magna Charta, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution.
If we accept the statement of Cicero that the days on which we are saved should be as illustrious
as the days on which we are born, then Lincoln the Savior must always remain coördinate with
Washington, the Father of his country. Jackson was "Old Hickory," Taylor was "Old Rough," and
there have been various names given to the other Presidents, but Washington and Lincoln were
the only ones whom the American people styled "Father."

Child of the American soil, cradled and nursed in the very bosom of nature, he loved his country
with the passion with which most men love their human mothers. He could not bear the thought
of one iota of detraction from her honor, her dignity or her welfare. Against her dismemberment
he was willing to fight to the end of his second administration or till the end of time. He
might tolerate anything else except disunion,--even the right of some of his fellowmen to enslave
others. Of every concession which he made during his administration, to friend or foe, the
sine qua non was Union. A house divided against itself cannot stand.

In this he left us a great heritage; it is a lesson for both sections, and all races of any
section. White men of America, black men of America, by the eternal God of heaven, there can
be no division of destiny on the same soil and in the bosom and in the lap of the same natural
mother. Men may attempt and accomplish discrimination in a small way, but Almighty God and
all-mothering nature are absolutely impartial. They have woven the fabric of life so that the
thread of each man's existence is a part of the whole. He who sets fire to his neighbor's house,
endangers the existence of his own; he who degrades his neighbor's children, undermines the
future of his own. Together we rise and together we fall is the plan of God and the rule of
nature. We must lean together in the common struggle of life: the syncline is stronger than
the anticline.

In a great nation with an increasing fame, the lesson of Lincoln's life must grow in importance.
As long as the human heart loves freedom his name will be a word on the tongues of men. His
name will be a watchword wherever liberty in her struggles with tyranny lifts her embattled
banners. No man of the ancient or the modern world has a securer place in the hearts and memories
of men than this man Lincoln, who was born in obscurity, who died in a halo, and who now rests
in an aureole of historic glory.

RONDEAU

JESSIE FAUSET

    When April's here and meadows wide
    Once more with spring's sweet growths are pied,
      I close each book, drop each pursuit,
      And past the brook, no longer mute,
    I joyous roam the countryside.

    Look, here the violets shy abide
    And there the mating robins hide--
      How keen my senses, how acute,
        When April's here!

    And list! down where the shimmering tide
    Hard by that farthest hill doth glide,
    Rise faint sweet strains from shepherd's flute,
      Pan's pipes and Berecynthian lute.
    Each sight, each sound fresh joys provide
        When April's here. Of all consciences, let me have those to deal
with, which have not been seared and bewildered with the cares and
perplexities of life.

Now more than one man could be found to answer the same general description. It was, however,
not infrequently bravely done, and was seldom discovered. Such is briefly the manner of my
escape from slavery--and the end of my experience as a slave.

FREDERICK DOUGLASS

W. H. CROGMAN

Frederick Douglass is dead! How strange that sounds to those of us who from earliest boyhood
have been accustomed to hear him spoken of as the living exponent of all that is noblest and
best in the race. The mind reluctantly accepts the unwelcome truth. And yet it is a truth--a
serious, a solemn truth. Frederick Douglass is no more. The grand old hero of a thousand battles
has at last fallen before the shaft of the common destroyer, and upon his well-battered shield
loving hands have tenderly borne that stalwart form to its last, long resting place. Earth
to earth, dust to dust, ashes to ashes!

This country will never again see another Douglass; this world will never again see another
Douglass, for in all probability there will never again exist that peculiar combination of
circumstances to produce exactly such a type of manhood. Man is, in a measure, the product
of environment. Yet it would be injustice to Frederick Douglass to say that he was great simply
because of environment. He was great in spite of environment. Born a slave, subjected in his
youth and early manhood to all the degrading, stultifying, demoralizing influences of slavery,
he has left behind him, after a public life long and varied and stormy, a name as clean and
spotless as driven snow. Take notice of this, young men, you who have ambitions, you who are
aspiring to public place, position, and power. Take notice that a public life need not be separated
from unsullied honor.

I said Frederick Douglass was great in spite of environment. Had there been no slavery to fight,
no freedom to win, he would still have been a great man. Greatness was inherent in his being,
and circumstances simply evoked it. He was one of those choice spirits whom the Almighty sends
into this world with the stamp of a great mission on their very form and features.

The same could doubtless have been said of Douglass; but it was not necessary to hear him talk,
to discover his unusual ability and surpassing intelligence. There was in his very presence
something that instantly indicated these. An eminent divine said some years ago that Douglass's
escape from slavery was a very fortunate thing for the South, as in any uprising of slaves
he must have proved a very formidable leader. "He had," said he, "the mind to plan, the heart
to dare, and the hand to execute," and added, "If you were to see him sitting in Exeter Hall
in the midst of a sea of faces, you would instantly recognize in him a man of extraordinary
force of character."

Such was the impression that Douglass commonly made on people, and such was the impression
he made on me at my first sight of him. It was in Faneuil Hall, in the summer of 1872. The
colored people of New England were assembled in political convention. Entering the hall in
the midst of one of their morning sessions, the first object that met my eyes was the old hero
himself on the rostrum. There he stood, over six feet in height, erect, broad-shouldered, deep-chested,
with massive, well-formed head, covered with thick, bushy hair, about half gray. I judged him
then to be midway in his fifties. His face, strongly leonine, was clean shaven, except moustache,
while those eyes, that even in the seventies could flash fire, lighted up the whole countenance,
and made the general effect such as not to be easily forgotten by a young man. There stood
the orator and the man, and never since have I seen the two in such exquisite combination.
The old Greek sculptor would have delighted to immortalize such a form in marble.

Whispering to a tall white brother beside me (the audience was half white) I asked: "Who, sir,
is that man speaking?" "That man? That man is Frederick Douglass." Then looking down upon me
with an expression of mingled pity and surprise in his face, he said: "Why, don't you know
Fred Douglass?" I need not say that that question brought to my mind feelings of pride not
altogether unmixed with humiliation.

As the old orator swept on, however, in his own inimitable style, sprinkling his remarks with
genuine original wit I forgot everything else around me. His voice, a heavy barytone, or rendered
a little heavier than usual by a slight hoarseness contracted in previous speaking, could be
distinctly heard in that historic but most wretched of auditoriums. I was particularly struck
with his perfect ease and naturalness, a seemingly childlike unconsciousness of his surroundings,
while, like a master of his art, as he was, he swayed the feelings of that surging multitude.
In the most impassioned portions of his speech, however, it was evident to the thoughtful observer
that there was in the man immense reserved force which on momentous occasions might be used
with startling effect.

At first I had entered the hall to remain but a few minutes, and, consequently, had taken my
stand just inside the door. How long I did remain I cannot tell, but it was until the speaker
finished, at which time I found myself half way up towards the rostrum in the midst of that
thickly standing audience. Such was my first sight and impression of one of the world's great
orators, and beyond comparison the greatest man of the race yet produced on this continent.

His splendid physique, so often admired, was well in keeping with the strength and grasp of
his masterly mind. Without the privilege of a day's instruction in the schoolroom, he acquired
a fund of useful knowledge that would put to shame the meager attainments of many a college
graduate. His speeches and writing are models of a pure English style, and are characterized
by simplicity, clearness, directness, force, and elegance.

Many of the interesting facts and incidents in the life of this great man are already well
known--his escape from slavery, his arrival in the North, his early marriage, his settling
down to work at his trade in New Bedford, his first speech in an anti-slavery convention, that
drew attention to his wonderful powers of oratory, and led to his employment by the Anti-slavery
Bureau to lecture through the North on the most unpopular question that up to that time had
been presented to the American people, his rise as an orator, his trip to England and its magical
effects on the English people, his return to this country, and the purchase of his freedom,
to relieve him of the apprehension of being seized and taken back into slavery, his editorship
of the North Star, his services to the government during the war in the raising of troops,
his securing of pay for the black soldiers equal to that of the whites, the editorship immediately
after the war of the New National Era, his popularity as a lyceum lecturer, his mission to
San Domingo under Grant, his marshalship of the District of Columbia under Hayes, his ministry
to Santo Domingo. These are some of the experiences which came into that eventful life.

If I were asked to sum up in a word what made Frederick Douglass great, I should say a noble
purpose, fixed and unchangeable, a purpose to render to mankind the largest possible service.
Verily he has served us well, faithfully, unselfishly, and now, full of years and full of honors,
loaded with such distinctions as this poor world has to give, he dies, dies as he lived, a
brave, strong, good man. No more shall we behold that manly form. No more shall we listen to
those eloquent lips upon which for over fifty years so many thousands have hung with rapture,
those eloquent lips that made his name famous in two hemispheres, and will surely keep it so
long as freedom has a history. God grant that the mantle of this old hero may fall upon a worthy
successor! God grant that our young men, contemplating his life and emulating his example,
may be lifted up to a higher conception of life, of duty, of responsibility, of usefulness!
He would then preach and speak, and soon became well known. He finally held several high positions
and accumulated some wealth. He wore broadcloth and did not have to divide crumbs with the
dogs under the table. That boy was Frederick Douglass.

"What was possible for me is possible for you.

ANIMAL LIFE IN THE CONGO

WILLIAM HENRY SHEPPARD

At daybreak Monday morning we had finished our breakfast by candle light and with staff in
hand we marched northeast for Lukunga.

In two days we sighted the Mission Compound. Word had reached the missionaries (A.B.M.U.) that
foreigners were approaching, and they came out to meet and greet us. We were soon hurried into
their cool and comfortable mud houses. Our faithful cook was dismissed, for we were to take
our meals with the missionaries.

Mr. Hoste, who is at the head of this station, came into our room and mentioned that the numerous
spiders, half the size of your hand, on the walls were harmless. "But," said he, as he raised
his hand and pointed to a hole over the door, "there is a nest of scorpions; you must be careful
in moving in or out, for they will spring upon you."

Well, you ought to have seen us dodging in and out that door. After supper, not discrediting
the veracity of the gentleman, we set to work, and for an hour we spoiled the walls by smashing
spiders with slippers.

The next morning the mission station was excited over the loss of their only donkey. The donkey
had been feeding in the field and a boa-constrictor had captured him, squeezed him into pulp,
dragged him a hundred yards down to the river bank, and was preparing to swallow him. The missionaries,
all with guns, took aim and fired, killing the twenty-five-foot boa-constrictor. The boa was
turned over to the natives and they had a great feast. The missionaries told us many tales
about how the boa-constrictor would come by night and steal away their goats, hogs, and dogs.

The sand around Lukunga is a hot-bed for miniature fleas, or "jiggers." The second day of our
stay at Lukunga our feet had swollen and itched terribly, and on examination we found that
these "jiggers" had entered under our toe nails and had grown to the size of a pea. A native
was called and with a small sharpened stick they were cut out. We saw natives with toes and
fingers eaten entirely off by these pests. Mr. Hoste told us to keep our toes well greased
with palm oil. We followed his instructions, but grease with sand and sun made our socks rather
"heavy."

The native church here is very strong spiritually. The church bell, a real big brass bell,
begins to ring at 8 A. M. and continues for an hour. The natives in the neighborhood come teeming
by every trail, take their seats quietly, and listen attentively to the preaching of God's
word. No excitement, no shouting, but an intelligent interest shown by looking and listening
from start to finish.

In the evening you can hear from every quarter our hymns sung by the natives in their own language.
They are having their family devotions before retiring.

Our second day's march brought us to a large river. Our loads and men were ferried over in
canoes. Mr. Lapsley and I decided to swim it, and so we jumped in and struck out for the opposite
shore. On landing we were told by a native watchman that we had done a very daring thing. He
explained with much excitement and many gestures that the river was filled with crocodiles,
and that he did not expect to see us land alive on his side. We camped on the top of the hill
overlooking N'Kissy and the wild rushing Congo Rapids. It was in one of these whirlpools that
young Pocock, Stanley's last survivor, perished.

In the "Pool" we saw many hippopotami, and longed to go out in a canoe and shoot one, but being
warned of the danger from the hippopotami and also of the treacherous current of the Congo
River, which might take us over the rapids and to death, we were afraid to venture. A native
Bateke fisherman, just a few days before our arrival, had been crushed in his canoe by a bull-hippopotamus.
Many stories of hippopotami horrors were told us.

One day Chief N'Galiama with his attendant came to the mission and told Dr. Simms that the
people in the village were very hungry and to see if it were possible for him to get some meat
to eat.

Dr. Simms called me and explained how the people were on the verge of a famine and if I could
kill them a hippopotamus it would help greatly. He continued to explain that the meat and hide
would be dried by the people and, using but a little at each meal, would last them a long time.
Dr. Simms mentioned that he had never hunted, but he knew where the game was. He said, "I will
give you a native guide, you go with him around the first cataract about two miles from here
and you will find the hippopotami." I was delighted at the idea, and being anxious to use my
"Martini Henry" rifle and to help the hungry people, I consented to go. In an hour and a half
we had walked around the rapids, across the big boulders, and right before us were at least
a dozen big hippopotami. Some were frightened, ducked their heads and made off; others showed
signs of fight and defiance.

At about fifty yards distant I raised my rifle and let fly at one of the exposed heads. My
guide told me that the hippopotamus was shot and killed. In a few minutes another head appeared
above the surface of the water and again taking aim I fired with the same result. The guide,
who was a subject of the Chief N'Galiama, sprang upon a big boulder and cried to me to look
at the big bubbles which were appearing on the water; then explained in detail that the hippopotami
had drowned and would rise to the top of the water within an hour.

The guide asked to go to a fishing camp nearby and call some men to secure the hippopotami
when they rose, or else they would go out with the current and over the rapids. In a very short
time about fifty men, bringing native rope with them, were on the scene and truly, as the guide
had said, up came the first hippopotamus, his big back showing first. A number of the men were
off swimming with the long rope which was tied to the hippopotamus' foot. A signal was given
and every man did his best. No sooner had we secured the one near shore than there was a wild
shout to untie and hasten for the other. These two were securely tied by their feet and big
boulders were rolled on the rope to keep them from drifting out into the current.

The short tails of both of them were cut off and we started home. We reported to Dr. Simms
that we had about four or five tons of meat down on the river bank. The native town ran wild
with delight. Many natives came to examine my gun which had sent the big bullets crashing through
the brain of the hippopotami. Early the next morning N'Galiama sent his son Nzelie with a long
caravan of men to complete the work. They leaped upon the backs of the hippopotami, wrestled
with each other for a while, and then with knives and axes fell to work. The missionaries enjoyed
a hippopotamus steak that day also.

Before the chickens began to crow for dawn I was alarmed by a band of big, broad-headed, determined
driver ants. They filled the cabin, the bed, the yard. There were millions. They were in my
head, my eyes, my nose, and pulling at my toes. When I found it was not a dream, I didn't tarry
long.

Some of our native boys came with torches of fire to my rescue. They are the largest and the
most ferocious ant we know anything about. In an incredibly short space of time they can kill
any goat, chicken, duck, hog or dog on the place. In a few hours there is not a rat, mouse,
snake, centipede, spider, or scorpion in your house, as they are chased, killed and carried
away. We built a fire and slept inside of the circle until day.

We scraped the acquaintance of these soldier ants by being severely bitten and stung. They
are near the size of a wasp and use both ends with splendid effect. They live deep down in
the ground and come out of a smoothly cut hole, following each other single file, and when
they reach a damp spot in the forest and hear the white ants cutting away on the fallen leaves,
the leader stops until all the soldiers have caught up. A circle is formed, a peculiar hissing
is the order to raid, and down under the leaves they dart, and in a few minutes they come out
with their pinchers filled with white ants. The line, without the least excitement, is again
formed and they march back home stepping high with their prey.

The small White Ants have a blue head and a white, soft body and are everywhere in the ground
and on the surface. They live by eating dead wood and leaves.

We got rid of the driver ants by keeping up a big fire in their cave for a week. We dug up
the homes of the big black ants and they moved off. But there was no way possible to rid the
place of the billions of white ants. They ate our dry goods boxes, our books, our trunks, our
beds, shoes, hats and clothing. The natives make holes in the ground, entrapping the ants,
and use them for food.

The dogs look like ordinary curs, with but little hair on them, and they never bark or bite.
I asked the people to explain why their dogs didn't bark. So they told me that once they did
bark, but long ago the dogs and leopards had a big fight, the dogs whipped the leopards, and
after that the leopards were very mad, so the mothers of the little dogs told them not to bark
any more, and they hadn't barked since.

The natives tie wooden bells around their dogs to know where they are. Every man knows the
sound of his bell just as we would know the bark of our dog.

There are many, many kinds of birds of the air, all known and called by name, and the food
they eat, their mode of building nests, etc., were familiar to the people. They knew the customs
and habits of the elephant, hippopotamus, buffalo, leopard, hyena, jackal, wildcat, monkey,
mouse, and every animal which roams the great forest and plain,--from the thirty-foot boa-constrictor
to a tiny tulu their names and nature were well known.

The little children could tell you the native names of all insects, such as caterpillars, crickets,
cockroaches, grasshoppers, locusts, mantis, honey bees, bumble bees, wasps, hornets, yellow
jackets, goliath beetles, stage beetles, ants, etc.

The many species of fish, eels and terrapins were on the end of their tongues, and these were
all gathered and used for food. All the trees of the forest and plain, the flowers, fruits,
nuts and berries were known and named. Roots which are good for all maladies were not only
known to the medicine man, but the common people knew them also.

CO-OPERATION AND THE LATIN CLASS

LILLIAN B. WITTEN

The few minutes that intervened between the devotionals and the beginning of the first period
were always eagerly seized by the Senior class in the L---- high school for those last furious
attempts at learning the date of the battle of Marathon, the duties of the President of the
United States, and other pieces of information that the faculty set so much store by.

Bored indifference was the sole notice they gave to the antics of the freshmen boys who were
trying to get a Webster's unabridged dictionary on the floor of the aisle without attracting
the attention of the guardian of the room.

One little group of seniors was especially busy, cooperatively busy one might say. This was
one of the overflow divisions of eight students which made up a class in Virgil. In all of
the athletics of their three years in school they had been taught the value of team work and
coöperation. One bright student had conceived the idea of bringing this same team work into
the Virgil class. It worked beautifully. Sixty lines of Virgil was their customary assignment.
Sixty lines divided among eight students, as everybody could see, was about eight lines per
student. Each pupil had his number and studied correspondingly: number one translated the first
seven lines with great care, number two the second seven, et cetera down the line. Then during
the study period which preceded the Latin recitation each one translated his lines for the
benefit of the other seven, while they attentively followed his translation with the Latin text.

Busy over those vindictive lines in which Queen Dido, spurned by Aeneas, pronounces a curse
upon his head and all his generation, the eight seniors on this particular morning translated
one for the other, "Hate, with a never-ceasing hate." All of the savage beauty of the lines
was lost on them, floundering in the maze of ablatives, subjunctives and the like. But they
managed between them all to make out some sort of translation.

The composition work lent itself to team work much more effectively. There were ten sentences
given them each day to be translated from English into Latin. They were divided among the eight
in the same manner as the Virgil, each one taking turns in doing the two extra sentences. Passed
around from one to the other and carefully copied they made up a carefully done composition
lesson. The beauty of it was that the Latin teacher called upon them to put these sentences
upon the board, each one being given a different sentence. Thus the similarity of the work
could not be a subject of unpleasant comment by the teacher who never presumed to collect the
notebooks.

The gong sounded for second period; noise and bustle commenced, the Virgil class made for the
Latin recitation room with all the enthusiasm of prepared lessons. Time dragged today of all
days, the day of the annual football game between the Juniors and the Seniors, so much more
vivid than the wanderings of Aeneas. Red and orange, the colors of the Senior and Junior classes
respectively, were everywhere conspicuous.

But lessons had to be gotten through somehow so with open books, making the final attempt to
gather up loose ends in the translation, they waited for the recitation to commence. Miss Rhodes,
the young Latin teacher, had observed the class during the three weeks of the new term. She
had noted the fact that none of the class excelled the others, that all of them sometimes made
brilliant recitations, all sometimes stumbled through passages in a way to cause the long deceased
Virgil to blush with shame. The students could have explained that if she would always call
upon them for the particular seven lines which had been their portion they could always be
brilliant. However, they maintained a wise and discreet silence. Scientific observation and
analysis is never wasted, however.

"Will the class please pass their Latin sentences to me?" Miss Rhodes requested at the beginning
of the hour.

Eight pairs of eyes were instantly fixed on her in amazed consternation. Eight pairs of unwilling
hands fumbled among papers and slowly gave up the one paper, which was the exact duplicate
of every other paper. "Hurry, please, class. You may now write your translations of today's
lesson for twenty minutes."

The clock ticked, eight industrious students concentrated and slaved over Dido's curse. Translations
which sounded plausible enough when orally stumbled through did not look well when written.
In the meantime Miss Rhodes looked through the sentences which they had given her. Her suspicions
were confirmed. The class, unaware that they were harming only themselves, were daily copying
their sentences from each other. Stolen glances at the young and pretty teacher informed the
students that her mouth had tightened, her chin had suddenly become terrifyingly firm. After
an eternity had passed the period came to an end.

"Class is dismissed. Please reassemble in this room this afternoon at 2.30," Miss Rhodes succinctly
stated. Did they hear aright? Why, this afternoon was the afternoon of the game. It was incredible.
Eight seniors and one of them the crack halfback of the senior team, not to be at their own
game. It was not to be dreamed of. In vain they protested.

"If you expect to graduate, you will be here at 2.30. Cheaters deserve no consideration."

Half past two found the eight sad and wiser seniors again in the Latin room. Again they applied
themselves to translating Latin into English, English into Latin, while in the distance they
could hear the shouts of the football fans. The hours ticked by. The game was over, the Juniors
winners in one of the closest games of years over the Seniors, who lost because of the absence
of their halfback who sat translating Latin, failing his class in their need. He would never
live down the shame.

Just before dismissing this extra session of the class, Miss Rhodes quietly said, "Let me tell
you from experience that the ability to make a good bluff is a rare gift. Good bluffs are always
founded on consistent hard work."

Slowly and sadly the Virgil class passed out of the room; realizing that the days of coöperative
Virgil were relegated to the dim, suffering past.

THE BAND OF GIDEON

JOSEPH S. COTTER

    The Band of Gideon roam the sky,
    The howling wind is their war-cry,
    The thunder's roll is their trump's peal,
    And the lightning's flash their vengeful steel.
            Each black cloud
            Is a fiery steed.
            And they cry aloud
            With each strong deed,
    "The sword of the Lord and Gideon."

    And men below rear temples high
    And mock their God with reasons why,
    And live, in arrogance, sin and shame,
    And rape their souls for the world's good name.

    The band of Gideon roam the sky
    And view the earth with baleful eye;
    In holy wrath they scourge the land
    With earthquake, storm and burning brand.

    The lightnings flash and the thunders roll,
    And "Lord have mercy on my soul,"
    Cry men as they fall on the stricken sod,
    In agony searching for their God.

THE KNIGHTING OF DONALD

LILLIAN B. WITTEN

"With spear drawn Sir Cedric rode steadily through the forest, while ever nearer and nearer
came the dragon. Swift and sudden was the onslaught and great was the struggle, until finally
Sir Cedric dismounted from his black charger and stood victor over the huge monster who had
committed so many depredations against the country side."

Slowly and lingeringly Donald closed the book. The many-branched tree under which he lay changed
into a grey stone castle with moat and drawbridge upon which through the day armored knights
on prancing steeds rode from castle to village, always on missions of good to the towns and
hamlets. Never did Donald tire of reading about Arthur, Galahad, Merlin and the others, but
Launcelot, the Bold, was his favorite knight. As he read of their deeds his black eyes flashed,
his nervous slim body quivered, the deep rich red flooded his brown cheeks. He was one of them,
took part in their tournaments, rescued the lovely ladies and overcame wicked monsters for
his king.

Of all the stories a never-to-be-forgotten one was of a little boy like himself who lived in
a small cottage near a castle which harbored many knights. This little boy idolized them even
as Donald did. One day as the knights were returning from a strenuous day's work, one, weary
and worn, stopped at the cottage and asked for a drink of water. Eagerly the boy ran, filled
his cup at the brimming spring, and gave it to the knight.

"Thank you, my little boy," smiled the man. "Already you are a knight for you have learned
the lesson of service."

How Donald envied the boy. To serve a knight, he dreamed, even to see one. Would he had lived
in the olden times when knighthood was in flower. But having been born centuries too late he
tried in every way to live as the knights had lived. Daily he exercised, practiced physical
feats, restrained himself from over indulgence, following out the program of those who would
be knights. With shining eyes he would often repeat his motto, the motto of Arthur's knights:
"Live pure, speak the truth, right the wrong, follow the Christ."

Thus dreaming Donald grew and everybody loved him. Dreamer though he was, he ever kept before
him the ideal of service. Tense with interest in the exploits of the black knight, he was often
tempted not to answer when his mother called him from his reading to go on errands. Only a
second, however, would temptation last. Launcelot could never approve of a boy who acted dishonestly.

Working, playing, and dreaming, Donald grew into a lovable boy, adept in all of the sports
of boyhood and with the manners of a prince. He had reached the last year in grammar school,
the graduating class. Already the obligations of maturity were forcing themselves upon the
boys and girls. They, for the first time in their school career, were an organized group. They
were going to elect officers, dignified officers. Nominations had been many and enthusiasm
surged around the youthful candidates, but the choice for president had narrowed itself down
between Donald and a laughing-eyed girl with crinkly black hair. As usual there were more girls
in the class than boys, but while the boys stood solidly as one behind the masculine candidate,
there were a few girls who put their trust in manly courage rather than feminine charm and
were disposed to break loose from the suffragette camp. Public opinion thus gave the election
to Donald.

As the time for election drew near, the interest became more intense and the various camps
campaigned vigorously, each striving to gain the majority vote. One day as the school was assembling
in their usual room they were stopped by the sight of their principal questioning one of the
members of the class.

"But this is your knife, isn't it?" sternly inquired the principal.

"Yes, sir," responded John, a trustworthy boy, the son of a widowed mother whom he helped by
working after school hours.

"Mr. Starks found this knife underneath his broken window last night. It had evidently been
dropped by the boy who, in climbing out of his cherry tree, accidentally smashed the window.
You know that I announced last week that the next boy who was caught trespassing upon Mr. Starks'
property would be suspended from school for the rest of the year. I am disappointed in you,
John. This does not sound like you. Did you drop this knife last night?"

"No, sir," responded John.

"No? Well, speak up. Who had the knife?"

"I can't say, sir."

"But you must. This is a serious matter. One of the rules of the school has been broken." Then
looking nervously around the room of girls and boys, the principal commanded: "Will the boy
who dropped this knife last night speak, or shall I be forced to find out the culprit for myself?"

There was no answer. Every boy stood taut, his eyes steadfastly before him in the thick silence
that followed.

"Very well," snapped the principal. "John, who had the knife yesterday?"

"I cannot say, sir," responded John unwillingly.

"You may do one of two things, either you will tell the name of the boy to whom you lent the
knife or you may be suspended from school for the rest of the year."

The silence was more intense. One, two, three minutes passed.

"You are dismissed," said the principal.

Slowly John left the room. Three days passed. John's mother, much disturbed, bewailed the fact
that he would lose this year out of his school life and, perhaps, would not have the opportunity
of going again. John thought of the responsibility toward his mother and then of that toward
the boy whose fault he was concealing. Was he doing right or was he doing the easiest thing
in not telling?

On the fourth day John sought the principal. "If it is necessary to tell the name of the boy
who had my knife before I can return to school, I will tell," he anxiously said.

"It certainly is necessary."

And John told.

There was great excitement in the graduating class. The traditions of centuries had been broken.
One of their number had become a tattler. John resumed his school work, systematically and
obviously shunned by the other boys.

But Donald reflected over the incident. "After all," he thought, "John did the bravest thing.
It would have been easier to appear heroic and to sacrifice his mother for the sake of a boy
who needed to be punished."

The next day Donald sought John, accompanied him to school, and showed the class that he regarded
John as a hero instead of a tell-tale.

The boys divided into two camps, some following Donald's example, and others loudly denouncing him.

Donald's sponsorship of John cost him the presidential election just as he had foreseen, but
he knew that he had lived up to the best within him and he was satisfied.

As he climbed into bed at the end of the day upon which he had been defeated and yet had gained
a great victory, his mother tucked the covers closely around him, kissed him good-night, and
lowered the light. Then she bent over him again and kissed him once more and whispered,

"My brave little knight."

                         "Robert E. Peary, Rear Admiral, U. S. N."

BENJAMIN BANNEKER

WILLIAM WELLS BROWN

Benjamin Banneker was born in the State of Maryland, in the year 1732, of pure African parentage;
their blood never having been corrupted by the introduction of a drop of Anglo-Saxon. His father
was a slave, and of course could do nothing towards the education of the child. The mother,
however, being free, succeeded in purchasing the freedom of her husband, and they, with their
son, settled on a few acres of land, where Benjamin remained during the lifetime of his parents.
His entire schooling was gained from an obscure country school, established for the education
of the children of free negroes; and these advantages were poor, for the boy appears to have
finished studying before he arrived at his fifteenth year.

Although out of school, Banneker was still a student, and read with great care and attention
such books as he could get. Mr. George Ellicott, a gentlemen of fortune and considerable literary
taste, and who resided near to Benjamin, became interested in him, and lent him books from
his large library. Among these books were three on Astronomy. A few old and imperfect astronomical
instruments also found their way into the boy's hands, all of which he used with great benefit
to his own mind.

Banneker took delight in the study of the languages, and soon mastered the Latin, Greek and
German. He was also proficient in the French. The classics were not neglected by him, and the
general literary knowledge which he possessed caused Mr. Ellicott to regard him as the most
learned man in the town, and he never failed to introduce Banneker to his most distinguished
guests.

About this time Benjamin turned his attention particularly to astronomy, and determined on
making calculations for an almanac, and completed a set for the whole year. Encouraged by this
attempt, he entered upon calculations for subsequent years, which, as well as the former, he
began and finished without the least assistance from any person or books than those already
mentioned; so that whatever merit is attached to his performance is exclusively his own.

He published an almanac in Philadelphia for the years 1792, '93, '94, and '95, which contained
his calculations, exhibiting the different aspects of the planets, a table of the motions of
the sun and moon, their risings and settings, and the courses of the bodies of the planetary
system. By this time Banneker's acquirements had become generally known, and the best scholars
in the country opened correspondence with him. Goddard & Angell, the well-known Baltimore publishers,
engaged his pen for their establishment, and became the publishers of his almanacs. With such
a fund of knowledge his conversation was equally interesting, instructive, and entertaining.
Banneker was so favorably appreciated by the first families in Virginia, that in 1803 he was
invited by Mr. Jefferson, then President of the United States, to visit him at Monticello,
where the statesman had gone for recreation. But he was too infirm to undertake the journey.
He died the following year, aged seventy-two. Like the golden sun that has sunk beneath the
western horizon, but still throws upon the world, which he sustained and enlightened in his
career, the reflected beams of his departed genius, his name can only perish with his language.

THE NEGRO RACE

CHARLES W. ANDERSON

As a race, we have done much, but we must not forget how much more there is still to do. To
some extent we have been given opportunity, but we must not cease to remember that no race
can be given relative rank--it must win equality of rating for itself. Hence, we must not only
acquire education, but character as well. It is not only necessary that we should speak well,
but it is more necessary that we should speak the truth.

PAUL CUFFE

JOHN W. CROMWELL

Paul Cuffe was born in 1759 on the island of Cuttyhunk, near New Bedford, Massachusetts. There
were four sons and six daughters of John Cuffe who had been stolen from Africa, and Ruth, a
woman of Indian extraction. Paul, the youngest son, lacked the advantage of an early education,
but he supplied the deficiency by his personal efforts and learned not only to read and write
with facility, but made such proficiency in the art of navigation as to become a skillful seaman
and the instructor of both whites and blacks in the same art.

His father, who had obtained his freedom and bought a farm of one hundred acres, died when
Paul was about fourteen. When he was sixteen, Paul began the life of a sailor. On his third
voyage he was captured by a British brig and was for three months a prisoner of war. On his
release he planned to go into business on his own account. With the aid of an elder brother,
David Cuffe, an open boat was built in which they went to sea; but this brother on the first
intimation of danger gave up the venture and Paul was forced to undertake the work single-handed
and alone, which was a sore disappointment. On his second attempt he lost all he had.

Before the close of the Revolutionary War, Paul refused to pay a personal tax, on the ground
that free colored people did not enjoy the rights and privileges of citizenship. After considerable
delay, and an appeal to the courts, he paid the tax under protest. He then petitioned to the
legislature which finally agreed to his contention. His efforts are the first of which there
is any record of a citizen of African descent making a successful appeal in behalf of his civil
rights. On reaching the age of twenty-five he married a woman of the same tribe as his mother,
and for a while gave up life on the ocean wave; but the growth of his family led him back to
his fond pursuit on the briny deep. As he was unable to purchase a boat, with the aid of his
brother he built one from keel to gunwale and launched into the enterprise.

While on the way to a nearby island to consult his brother whom he had induced once more to
venture forth with him, he was overtaken by pirates who robbed him of all he possessed. Again
Paul returned home disappointed, though not discouraged. Once more he applied for assistance
to his brother David and another boat was built. After securing a cargo, he met again with
pirates, but he eluded them though he was compelled to return and repair his boat. These having
been made, he began a successful career along the coast as far north as Newfoundland, to the
south as far as Savannah and as distant as Gottenburg.

In carrying on this business, starting in the small way indicated, he owned at different times
besides smaller boats, "The Ranger," a schooner of sixty or seventy tons, a half interest in
a brig of 162 tons, the brig "Traveller," of 109 tons, the ship "Alpha," of 268 tons and three-fourths
interest in a larger vessel.

A few noble incidents may illustrate his resourcefulness, difficulties and success over all
obstacles. When engaged in the whaling business he was found with less than the customary outfit
for effectually carrying on this work. The practice in such cases was for the other ships to
loan the number of men needed. They denied this at first to Cuffe, but fair play prevailed
and they gave him what was customary, with the result that of the seven whales captured, Paul's
men secured five, and two of them fell by his own hand!

In 1795 he took a cargo to Norfolk, Virginia, and learning that corn could be bought at a decided
advantage, he made a trip to the Nanticoke River, on the eastern shore of Maryland. Here his
appearance as a black man commanding his own boat and with a crew of seven men all of his own
complexion, alarmed the whites, who seemed to dread his presence there as the signal for a
revolt on the part of their slaves. They opposed his landing, but the examination of his papers
removed all doubts as to the regularity of his business, while his quiet dignity secured the
respect of the leading white citizens. He had no difficulty after this in taking a cargo of
three thousand bushels of corn, from which he realized a profit of $1000. On a second voyage
he was equally successful.

Although without the privilege of attending a school when a boy, he endeavored to have his
friends and neighbors open and maintain one for the colored and Indian children of the vicinity.
Failing to secure their active coöperation, he built in 1797 a schoolhouse without their aid.

Because of his independent means and his skill as a mariner, he visited with little or no difficulty
most of the larger cities of the country, held frequent conferences with the representative
men of his race, and recommended the formation of societies for their mutual relief and physical
betterment. Such societies he formed in Philadelphia and New York, and then having made ample
preparation he sailed in 1811 for Africa in his brig "The Traveller," reaching Sierra Leone
on the West Coast after a voyage of about two months.

Here he organized the Friendly Society of Sierra Leone and then went to Liverpool. Even here
one of his characteristic traits manifested itself in taking with him to England for education
a native of Sierra Leone.

While in England, Cuffe visited London twice and consulted such friends of the Negro as Granville
Sharp, Thomas Clarkson and William Wilberforce! These men were all interested in a proposition
to promote the settlement on the West Coast of Africa of the free people of color in America,
many of whom had come into the domains of Great Britain as an outcome of the Revolutionary
War. This opinion was at this period the prevailing sentiment of England respecting what was
best for the Negro. Sir J. J. Crooks, a former governor of Sierra Leone, in alluding to its
origin, says: "There is no doubt that the influence of their opinion was felt in America and
that it led to emigration thence to Africa before Liberia was settled. Paul Cuffe, a man of
color ... who was much interested in the promotion of the civil and religious liberty of his
colored brethren in their native land, had been familiar with the ideas of these philanthropists,
as well as with the movement in the same direction in England."[1]

     [1] History of Sierra Leone, Dublin, 1903, p. 97

This explains Cuffe's visit to England and to Africa--a daring venture in those perilous days--and
the formation of the Friendly Societies in Africa and in his own country, the United States.

When his special mission to England was concluded, he took out a cargo from Liverpool for Sierra
Leone, after which he returned to America.

Before he made his next move, Cuffe consulted with the British Government in London and President
Madison at Washington. But the strained relations between the two nations, as well as the financial
condition of the United States at the time, made governmental coöperation impracticable if
not impossible.

In 1815 he carried out the ideas long in his mind. In this year he sailed from Boston for Sierra
Leone with thirty-eight free Negroes as settlers on the Black Continent. Only eight of these
could pay their own expenses, but Cuffe, nevertheless, took out the entire party, landed them
safe on the soil of their forefathers after a journey of fifty-five days and paid the expense
for the outfit, transportation and maintenance of the remaining thirty, amounting to no less
than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), out of his own pocket. The colonists were cordially
welcomed by the people of Sierra Leone, and each family received from thirty to forty acres
from the Crown Government. He remained with the settlers two months and then returned home
with the purpose of taking out another colony. Before, however, he could do so, and while preparations
were being made for the second colony, he was taken ill. After a protracted illness he died
September 7, 1817, in the fifty-ninth year of his age. At the time of his death he had no less
than two thousand names of intending emigrants on his list awaiting transportation to Africa.

As to his personal characteristics: Paul Cuffe was "tall, well-formed and athletic, his deportment
conciliating yet dignified and prepossessing. He was a member of the Society of Friends (Quakers)
and became a minister among them.... He believed it to be his duty to sacrifice private interest,
rather than engage in any enterprise, however lawful ... or however profitable, that had the
slightest tendency to injure his fellow man. He would not deal in intoxicating liquors or in
slaves."

THE BLACK FAIRY

FENTON JOHNSON

Little Annabelle was lying on the lawn, a volume of Grimm before her. Annabelle was nine years
of age, the daughter of a colored lawyer, and the prettiest dark child in the village. She
had long played in the fairyland of knowledge, and was far advanced for one of her years. A
vivid imagination was her chief endowment, and her story creatures often became real flesh-and-blood
creatures.

"I wonder," she said to herself that afternoon, "if there is any such thing as a colored fairy?
Surely there must be, but in this book they're all white."

Closing the book, her eyes rested upon the landscape that rolled itself out lazily before her.
The stalks in the cornfield bent and swayed, their tassels bowing to the breeze, until Annabelle
could have easily sworn that those were Indian fairies. And beyond lay the woods, dark and
mossy and cool, and there many a something mysterious could have sprung into being, for in
the recess was a silvery pool where the children played barefooted. A summer mist like a thin
veil hung over the scene, and the breeze whispered tales of far-away lands.

Hist! Something stirred in the hazel bush near her. Can I describe little Annabelle's amazement
at finding in the bush a palace and a tall and dark-faced fairy before it?

"I am Amunophis, the Lily of Ethiopia," said the strange creature. "And I come to the children
of the Seventh Veil."

She was black and regal, and her voice was soft and low and gentle like the Niger on a summer
evening. Her dress was the wing of the sacred beetle, and whenever the wind stirred it played
the dreamiest of music. Her feet were bound with golden sandals, and on her head was a crown
of lotus leaves.

"And you're a fairy?" gasped Annabelle.

"Yes, I am a fairy, just as you wished me to be. I live in the tall grass many, many miles
away, where a beautiful river called the Niger sleeps." And stretching herself beside Annabelle,
on the lawn, the fairy began to whisper:

"I have lived there for over five thousand years. In the long ago a city rested there, and
from that spot black men and women ruled the world. Great ships laden with spice and oil and
wheat would come to its port, and would leave with wines and weapons of war and fine linens.
Proud and great were the black kings of this land, their palaces were built of gold, and I
was the Guardian of the City. But one night when I was visiting an Indian grove the barbarians
from the North came down and destroyed our shrines and palaces and took our people up to Egypt.
Oh, it was desolate, and I shed many tears, for I missed the busy hum of the market and the
merry voices of the children.

"But come with me, little Annabelle, I will show you all this, the rich past of the Ethiopian."

She bade the little girl take hold of her hand and close her eyes, and wish herself in the
wood behind the cornfield. Annabelle obeyed, and ere they knew it they were sitting beside
the clear water in the pond.

"You should see the Niger," said the fairy. "It is still beautiful, but not as happy as in
the old days. The white man's foot has been cooled by its water, and the white man's blossom
is choking out the native flower." And she dropped a tear so beautiful the costliest pearl
would seem worthless beside it.

"Ah! I did not come to weep," she continued, "but to show you the past."

So in a voice sweet and sad she sang an old African lullaby and dropped into the water a lotus
leaf. A strange mist formed, and when it had disappeared she bade the little girl to look into
the pool. Creeping up Annabelle peered into the glassy surface, and beheld a series of vividly
colored pictures.

First she saw dark blacksmiths hammering in the primeval forests and giving fire and iron to
all the world. Then she saw the gold of old Ghana and the bronzes of Benin. Then the black
Ethiopians poured down upon Egypt and the lands and cities bowed and flamed. Next she saw a
great city with pyramids and stately temples. It was night, and a crimson moon was in the sky.
Red wine was flowing freely, and beautiful dusky maidens were dancing in a grove of palms.
Old and young were intoxicated with the joy of living, and a sense of superiority could be
easily traced in their faces and attitude. Presently red flame hissed everywhere, and the magnificence
of remote ages soon crumbled into ash and dust. Persian soldiers ran to and fro conquering
the band of defenders and severing the woman and children. Then came the Mohammedans and kingdom
on kingdom arose, and with the splendor came ever more slavery.

The next picture was that of a group of fugitive slaves, forming the nucleus of three tribes,
hurrying back to the wilderness of their fathers.

In houses built as protection against the heat the blacks dwelt, communing with the beauty
of water and sky and open air. It was just between twilight and evening and their minstrels
were chanting impromptu hymns to their gods of nature. And as she listened closely, Annabelle
thought she caught traces of the sorrow songs in the weird pathetic strains of the African
music mongers. From the East the warriors of the tribe came, bringing prisoners, whom they
sold to white strangers from the West.

"It is the beginning," whispered the fairy, as a large Dutch vessel sailed westward. Twenty
boys and girls bound with strong ropes were given to a miserable existence in the hatchway
of the boat. Their captors were strange creatures, pale and yellow haired, who were destined
to sell them as slaves in a country cold and wild, where the palm trees and the cocoanut never
grew and men spoke a language without music. A light, airy creature, like an ancient goddess,
flew before the craft guiding it in its course.

"That is I," said the fairy. "In that picture I am bringing your ancestors to America. It was
my hope that in the new civilization I could build a race that would be strong enough to redeem
their brothers. They have gone through great tribulations and trials, and have mingled with
the blood of the fairer race; yet though not entirely Ethiopian they have not lost their identity.
Prejudice is a furnace through which molten gold is poured. Heaven be merciful unto all races!
There is one more picture--the greatest of all, but--farewell, little one, I am going."

"Going?" cried Annabelle. "Going? I want to see the last picture--and when will you return, fairy?"

"When the race has been redeemed. When the brotherhood of man has come into the world; and
there is no longer a white civilization or a black civilization, but the civilization of all
men. I belong to the world council of the fairies, and we are all colors and kinds. Why should
not men be as charitable unto one another? When that glorious time comes I shall walk among
you and be one of you, performing my deeds of magic and playing with the children of every
nation, race and tribe. Then, Annabelle, you shall see the last picture--and the best."

Slowly she disappeared like a summer mist, leaving Annabelle amazed.

IT'S A LONG WAY

WILLIAM STANLEY BRAITHWAITE

    It's a long way the sea-winds blow
      Over the sea-plains blue,--
    But longer far has my heart to go
      Before its dreams come true.

    It's work we must, and love we must,
      And do the best we may,
    And take the hope of dreams in trust
      To keep us day by day.

    It's a long way the sea-winds blow--
      But somewhere lies a shore--
    Thus down the tide of Time shall flow
      My dreams forevermore.

NEGRO MUSIC THAT STIRRED FRANCE

EMMETT J. SCOTT

"You cannot defeat a singing nation," a keen-witted observer has said, in noting the victory
spirit engendered by the martial music, the patriotic songs and the stirring melodies of hearth
and home that have moved the souls of men to action on all the battlefields of history.

"Send me more singing regiments," cabled General Pershing, and Admiral Mayo sent frequent requests
that a song leader organize singing on every battleship of the Atlantic Fleet.

Since "the morning stars sang together" in Scriptural narrative, music has exerted a profound
influence upon mankind, be it in peace or in war, in gladness or in sorrow, or in the tender
sentiment that makes for love of country, affection for kindred or the divine passion for "ye
ladye fair." Music knows no land or clime, no season or circumstance, and no race, creed or
clan. It speaks the language universal, and appeals to all peoples with a force irresistible
and no training in ethics or science is necessary to reach the common ground that its philosophy
instinctively creates in the human understanding.

The War Department was conscious of this and gave practical application to its theory that
music makes a soldier "fit to fight" when it instituted, through the Commission on Training
Camp Activities, a systematic program of musical instruction throughout the American Army at
the home cantonments and followed up the work overseas. It was the belief that every man became
a better warrior for freedom when his mind could be diverted from the dull routine of camp
life by arousing his higher nature by song, and that he fared forth to battle with a stouter
heart when his steps were attuned to the march by bands that drove out all fear of bodily danger
and robbed "grim-visaged war" of its terrors. Skilled song leaders were detailed to the various
camps and cantonments here and abroad, and bands galore were brought into service for inspiration
and cheer.

The emotional nature of the Negro fitted him for this musical program. The colored American
was a "close up" in every picture from the start to the finish and was a conspicuous figure
in every scenario, playing with credit and distinction alike in melody or with the musket.

No instrumentality was more potent than music in off-setting the propaganda of the wily German
agents, who sought to break down the loyalty of the Negro. The music he knew was intensely
American--in sentiment and rhythm. It saturated his being--and all the blandishments of the
enemy were powerless to sway him from the flag he loved. His grievances were overshadowed by
the realization that the welfare of the nation was menaced and that his help was needed. American
music harmonized with the innate patriotism of the race, and the majestic sweep of "The Star-Spangled
Banner" or the sympathetic appeal of "My Country, 'Tis of Thee," were sufficient to counteract
the sinister efforts of the missionaries of the Hohenzollerns to move him from his moorings.

No labor is ever so onerous that it can bar music from the soul of black folk. This race sings
at work, at play and in every mood. Visitors to any army camp found the Negro doing musical
"stunts" of some kind from reveille to taps--every hour, every minute of the day. All the time
the trumpeters were not blowing out actual routine bugle calls, they were somewhere practicing
them. Mouth-organs were going, concertinas were being drawn back and forth, and guitars, banjos,
mandolins and whatnot were in use--playing all varieties of music, from the classic, like "Lucia,"
"Poet and Peasant," and "Il Trovatore" to the folksongs and the rollicking "Jazz." Music is
indeed the chiefest outlet of the Negro's emotions, and the state of his soul can best be determined
by the type of melody he pours forth.

Some writer has said that a handful of pipers at the head of a Scotch regiment could lead that
regiment down the mouth of a cannon. It is not doubted that a Negro regiment could be made
to duplicate the "Charge of the Light Brigade" at Balaklava--"into the mouth of hell," as Tennyson
puts it--if one of their regimental bands should play--as none but a colored band can play--the
vivacious strains of "There'll Be a Hot Time in the Old Town Tonight."

The Negro's love of home is an integral part of his nature, and is exemplified in the themes
he plaintively crooned in camp on both sides of the ocean. Such melodies as "Carry Me Back
to Old Virginia," "My Old Kentucky Home," "In the Evening by de Moonlight," and "Swanee River"
recalled memories of the "old folks at home," and kept his patriotism alive, for he hoped to
return to them some day and swell their hearts with pride by reason of the glorious record
he made at the front.

The Negro is essentially religious, and his deep spiritual temperament is vividly illustrated
by the joy he finds in "harmonizing" such ballads of ancient days as "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,"
"Steal Away to Jesus," "Standin' in the Need of Prayer," "Every Time I Feel the Spirit," "I
Wan' to be Ready," and "Roll, Jordan, Roll." The Negro is also an optimist, whether he styles
himself by that high-sounding title or not, and the sincerity of his "make the best of it"
disposition is noted in the fervor he puts into those uplifting gems, "Pack Up Your Troubles
in Your Old Kit Bag and Smile, Smile, Smile," "There's a Long, Long Trail," "Keep the Home
Fires Burning," and "Good-bye Broadway, Hello France."

Just as the Negro folk-songs--or songs of war, interpreted with the characteristic Negro flavor--stirred
all France and gave poilu and populace a taste of the real American music, the marvelous "jazz
bands" kept their feet patting and their shoulders "eagle-rocking" to its infectious motion.
High officials are said to have been literally "carried away" with the "jazz" music furnished
by the colored bands "over there" during the war. General Petain is said to have paid a visit,
at the height of the hostilities, to a sector in which there were American troops and had "the
time of his life" listening to a colored band playing the entrancing "jazz" music, with some
Negro dance stunts in keeping with the spirit of the melodies. He warmly congratulated the
colored leader upon the excellence of the work of his organization, and thanked him for the
enjoyable entertainment that had been given him.

The stolid Briton is scarcely less susceptible to the "jazz" than his volatile French brother,
for when another colored band from "The States" went to London to head a parade of American
and English soldiers, and halted at Buckingham Palace, it is said that King George V and Queen
Mary heard the lively airs with undisguised enthusiasm and were loath to have the players depart
for the park where they were scheduled for a concert, with a dance engagement, under British
military control, to follow. The colored bands scored heavily with the three great Allied Powers
of Europe by rendering with a brilliant touch and matchless finish their national anthems,
"God Save the Queen," "La Marseillaise" and the "Marcia Reale."

NOVEMBER 11, 1918

(This letter was written by a young first lieutenant (colored) in the 366th Infantry, Company
L, 92nd Division, Cleveland, Ohio.)

                                                        November 11th.

     My dearest Mother and Dad:

     Well, folks, it's all over but the flowers. Yesterday it was war,
     hard, gruelling, hideous. Today it is peace.

     This morning I formed my platoon in line in the woods behind the
     line. They didn't know why. They were just a bunch of tired,
     hard-bitten, mud-spattered, rough-and-tumble soldiers standing
     stoically at attention, equally ready to go over the top, rebuild a
     shell-torn road, or march to a rest billet. At 10:45 I gave the
     command: "Unload rifles!" They didn't know why and didn't
     particularly care. Then--"Unload pistols." And while they still
     stood rigid and motionless as graven images, I read the order
     declaring armistice and cessation of hostilities effective at 11
     o'clock. The perfect discipline of these veteran soldiers held them
     still motionless, but I could see their eyes begin to shine and
     their muscles to quiver as the import of this miraculous message
     began to dawn on them.

     The tension was fast straining their nerves to the breaking-point,
     so I dismissed them. You should have seen them! They yelled till
     they were hoarse. Some sang. Others, war-hardened veterans, who had
     faced the death hail of a machine-gun with a laugh, men who had
     gone through the horrors of artillery bombardments and had seen
     their fellows mangled and torn without a flinch, broke down and
     cried like babies.

     Tonight something is wrong. The silence is almost uncanny. Not a
     shot--not even a single shell. Very faintly we can hear the mellow
     tones of the church bell in the little French town on the hill far
     to our rear. All day long it has been singing its song of joy and
     thanksgiving. It seems symbolical of the heart of France, which,
     today, is ringing.

     I don't know when I'm coming home, but when I do, I want a big
     roast turkey, golden brown, new spuds swimming in butter and
     cranberry sauce.

                                   Love,
                                      JESSE.

SEA LYRIC

WILLIAM STANLEY BRAITHWAITE

    Over the seas to-night, love,
      Over the darksome deeps,
    Over the seas to-night, love,
      Slowly my vessel creeps.

    Over the seas to-night, love,
      Waking the sleeping foam--
    Sailing away from thee, love,
      Sailing from thee and home.

    Over the seas to-night, love,
      Dreaming beneath the spars--
    Till in my dreams you shine, love,
      Bright as the listening stars.

A NEGRO WOMAN'S HOSPITALITY

LEILA A. PENDLETON

Mungo Park, a native of Scotland, was one of the first of noble, brave men who devoted the
best years of their lives to Africa. In 1795, when he was only twenty-four years old, he went
to West Africa to find the source of the River Niger. One of the drawbacks of the west coast
is its deadly climate, and shortly after arriving at Kano young Park fell ill of fever and
remained an invalid for five months. While recovering, he learned the language of the Mandingoes,
a native tribe, and this was a great help to him.

He finally started with only six natives on his journey. Had he been older and wiser he would
have taken a larger company. At one time they were captured by Moors and a wild boar was turned
loose upon them, but instead of attacking Park the beast turned upon its owners, and this aroused
their superstitious fears. The king then ordered him to be put into a hut where the boar was
tied while he and his chief officers discussed whether Park should lose his right hand, his
eyes or his life. But he escaped from them, and after nearly two years of wandering in search
of the Niger's source, during which time he suffered many hardships and had many narrow escapes,
he returned to Kano, the place where he had been ill.

At one time during his journey Mr. Park arrived in the neighborhood of Sego, and as a white
man had never been seen in that region before, the natives looked upon him with fear and astonishment.
He asked to see the king, but no one would take him across the river, and the king sent word
that he would by no means receive the strange traveler until he knew what the latter wanted.

Park was tired, hungry, and discouraged and was preparing to spend the night in the branches
of a tree when a native woman pitied him. She invited him into her hut, and with the hospitality
for which the natives are noted, shared with him her food. And another writer says: "The name
of the woman and the alabaster box of precious ointment, the nameless widow, who, giving only
two mites, had given more than all the rich, and this nameless woman of Sego, form a trio of
feminine beauty and grandeur of which the sex in all ages may be proud."

RECORD OF "THE OLD FIFTEENTH" IN FRANCE

EMMETT J. SCOTT

Early in September, 1918, the men of the 369th Infantry were transferred from the 15th French
Division, in which they had been serving, and made an integral part of the 161st French Division.
And then, on the morning of September 26th, they joined with the Moroccans on the left and
native French on the right in the offensive which won for the entire regiment the French Croix
de Guerre and the citation of 171 individual officers and enlisted men for the Croix de Guerre
and the Legion of Honor, for exceptional gallantry in action. The action began at Maisons-en-Champagne;
it finished seven kilometers northward and eastward, and over the intervening territory the
Germans had retreated before the ferocious attacks of the Fifteenth and its French comrades.

A month later a new honor came to the regiment--the honor of being the first unit of all the
Allied armies to reach the River Rhine. The regiment had left its trenches at Thann, Sunday,
November 17, and, marching as the advance guard of the 161st Division, Second French Army,
reached the left bank of the Rhine, Monday, November 18. The 369th is proud of this achievement.
It believes also that it was under fire for a greater number of days than any other American
regiment. Its historian will record:

That the regiment never lost a man captured, a trench, or a foot of ground; that it was the
only unit in the American Expeditionary Force which bore a State name and carried a State flag;
that it was never in an American brigade or division; that it saw the first and the longest
service of any American regiment as part of a foreign army; and that it had less training than
any American unit before going into action.

NEGRO SOLDIERS

ROSCOE C. JAMISON

    These truly are the Brave
    These men who cast aside
    Old memories, to walk the blood-stained pave
    Of Sacrifice, joining the solemn tide
    That moves away, to suffer and to die
    For Freedom--when their own is yet denied!
    O Pride! O Prejudice! When they pass by,
    Hail them, the Brave, for you now crucified!

    These truly are the Free,
    These souls that grandly rise
    Above base dreams of vengeance for their wrongs,
    Who march to war with visions in their eyes
    Of Peace through Brotherhood, lifting glad songs
    Aforetime, while they front the firing-line.
    Stand and behold! They take the field today,
    Shedding their blood like Him now held divine,
    That those who mock might find a better way!

THE "DEVIL BUSH" AND THE "GREEGREE BUSH"

GEORGE W. ELLIS

The "Devil Bush" is one of the most important social institutions of the Vais,--in fact, of
most of the tribes in Liberia. It is a secret organization, and its operations are carried
on in an unknown place. The penalty for divulging its secrets is said to be death. I know that
it is very difficult to ascertain much information regarding it.

The aim of this society is to train young boys for African life. The boys are taught the industrial
trades, native warfare, religious duties, tribal laws and customs, and the social arts.

The bow and arrow may be called the Vai alphabet. Every morning the small boys are taught first
to use skilfully this weapon. In addition they are taught to throw the spear and to wield the
sword. In the afternoon they are taken on a hunt for small game, and later are given practice
in target shooting and throwing the spear. After supper the boys take up singing and dancing.
At this period they are taught also their duties to the gods, to whom a certain portion of
their meals is said to be offered. Each boy is taught the sacrificial ceremony; they all clap,
dance, and sing their song of praise.

When the boys have attained a certain advancement among other things they have sham battles,
with 200 or 150 boys on a side. A district is given to one side to be captured by the other.
Each side has a captain, and at this stage of their development emphasis is placed upon the
display of bravery. And sometimes the contests assume aspects of reality. When one side repulses
another six times it is said to be victorious.

In addition to being taught the methods of warfare, the boys are taught the civil and military
laws governing the Vai people. Every Vai man must know the law. And as the penalties for violating
the laws covering military expeditions are so severe, the customs and laws relating thereto
are of paramount importance to every Vai man.

The members of the "Devil Bush" are not only taught everything pertaining to practical war,
but they are taught hunting as well. They are first taught to capture small game and later
the larger and dangerous animals like the leopard, elephant, and buffalo. What the Africans
call a real hunt requires about a month's work in preparation. The boys dig a large pit and
surround the ends and sides with the trunks of large trees. With the pit of the apex, in triangular
form, two fences are built about a mile long, and with a mile between the two extremities.
The surrounding country is encircled by the hunters and the animals are driven into the pit.
The smaller animals are eaten and the larger ones are sent to the king. As the valuable skins
are preserved, the boys are taught to skin animals neatly. The ivories belong to the king,
and various small horns are kept for amulets, and so on. These hunts are usually accompanied
with much singing and dancing, after the cooking and eating of the game.

The "Greegree Bush" is a society for the training of girls for future life, just as the "Devil
Bush" is for boys. It is death for a man to be found within the limits of the "Greegree Bush,"
no matter what his purpose may be. The sessions of the society are held near some town, yet
few in that town know the exact place. No one is permitted to approach the scene.

Usually girls are admitted at seven or eight years of age, although women may be admitted.

The "Greegree Bush" has both an industrial and an educational purpose. The girls are taught
to embroider with gold and silver thread the tunics and togas of kings and chiefs. Some of
them become very artistic in working palm-trees, golden elephants, moons, half-moons, running
vines, and other objects and scenes of nature in various articles of apparel.

The girls are taught hair-dressing in order that they may plait, beside their own, the hair
of the richer Vais, some of whom have their hair oiled and plaited two or three times a week.

Instruction is given in cutting inscriptions on shields, breastplates, and the like, and in
housekeeping, singing, dancing, farming, sewing, weaving cotton, dyeing, making nets and mats
and many other articles of domestic utility, decoration, and dress. I have seen Vai women making
some of the most beautiful fancy baskets of various kinds to be found along the coast.

EVENING PRAYER

H. CORDELIA RAY

          Father of Love!
    We leave our souls with Thee!
    Oh! may Thy Holy Spirit to us be
          A peaceful Dove!

          Now when day's strife
    And bitterness are o'er,
    Oh! in our hearts all bruisèd gently pour
          The dew of life.

          So as the rose--
    Though fading on the stem--
    Awakes to blush when morning's lustrous gem
          Upon it glows;--

          May we awake,
    Soothed by Thy priceless balm,
    To chant with grateful hearts our morning psalm,
          And blessings take.

          Or let it be,
    That where the palm trees rise,
    And crystal streams flow, we uplift our eyes
          To Thee!--to Thee!

THE STRENUOUS LIFE

SILAS X. FLOYD

They were having a rough-and-tumble time of it and Pansy was getting some pretty hard blows.
She took them all good-naturedly, nevertheless, and tried to give as good as she received,
much to the delight of her little boy friends. A lady who was standing near, afraid for the
little girl, chided the boys and said:

"You shouldn't handle Pansy so roughly--you might hurt her."

And then Pansy looked up in sweet surprise and said with amusing seriousness:

"No; they won't hurt me. I don't break easy."

It was a thoroughly childlike expression, but it had more wisdom in it than Pansy knew. She
spoke of a little girl's experience with dolls, some of which, as she had learned, broke very
easily. Pansy knew how delightful it was to have a doll that didn't break so easily. Though
she was not a homely girl by any means, yet she wanted it understood that she was not like
a piece of china. That was why the other children liked her so much--because she knew how to
rough it without crying or complaining at every turn. Pansy was not a cry-baby.

There is all the time, my dear boys and girls, a great demand everywhere all through life for
people who don't break easily--people who know how to take hard knocks without going all to
pieces. The game of life is sometimes rough, even among those who mean to play fair. It is
very trying when we have to deal with people who break easily, and are always getting hurt
and spoiling the game with their tears and complaints. It is so much better when we have to
deal with people who, like little Pansy, do not break easily. Some of them will laugh off the
hardest words without wincing at all. You can jostle them as you will, but they don't fall
down every time you shove them, and they don't cry every time they are pushed aside. You can't
but like them, they take life so heartily and so sensibly. You don't have to hold yourself
in with them all the time. You can let yourself out freely without being on pins as to the
result. Young people of this class make good playmates or good work-fellows, as the case may be.

So, boys and girls, you must learn to rough it a little. Don't be a china doll, going to smash
at every hard knock. If you get hard blows take them cheerily and as easily as you can. Even
if some blow comes when you least expect it, and knocks you off your feet for a minute, don't
let it floor you long. Everybody likes the fellow who can get up when he is knocked down and
blink the tears away and pitch in again. Learning to get yourself accustomed to a little hard
treatment will be good for you. Hard words and hard fortune often make us--if we don't let
them break us. Stand up to your work or play courageously, and when you hear words that hurt,
when you are hit hard with the blunders or misdeeds of others, when life goes roughly with
you, keep right on in a happy, companionable, courageous, helpful spirit, and let the world
know that you don't break easily.

O LITTLE DAVID, PLAY ON YOUR HARP

JOSEPH S. COTTER, JR.

    O Little David, play on your harp,
    That ivory harp with the golden strings;
    And sing as you did in Jewry land,
    Of the Prince of Peace and the God of Love
    And the Coming Christ Immanuel.
    O Little David, play on your harp.

    O Little David, play on your harp,
    That ivory harp with the golden strings;
    And psalm anew your songs of Peace,
    Of the soothing calm of a Brotherly Love,
    And the saving grace of a Mighty God.
    O Little David, play on your harp.

A DAY AT KALK BAY, SOUTH AFRICA

L. J. COPPIN

Summer in Cape Town begins with November and lasts until March. This may seem strange to those
living in North America, but a moment's reflection will suffice to remind them that during
these months the sun is south of the equator, hence this natural result. The strong southeast
winds, which are prevalent during the summer months, often make it very unpleasant in Cape
Town on account of the dust, and one finds it most desirable occasionally to run out to one
of the suburbs where "Cape Doctor" does not make such frequent and violent visits.

Of the chain of beautiful and pleasant suburban towns following the railway north, the most
important as a summer resort, is Kalk Bay. One who has visited the beach at Newport, R. I.,
in the United States, will, upon visiting Kalk Bay, see a resemblance. Unlike the long sweep
of ocean at Atlantic City, the beach is narrow, being rather a bay than an open ocean front.
Instead of the cliffs as at Newport, we have the massive mountains standing almost perpendicularly
on the east side, at the foot of which the town is situated.

The principal vocation among the laboring men there is fishing. In this respect it is very
much like Bermuda. They go to sea and return according to the tide. Some days they are out
by two and three o'clock in the morning. When they go this early they may be expected to return
by noon or even before noon.

I was told that of the sixty-five fishing boats on the Bay fifty-six are owned by colored men.
There are six men to a crew, five beside the captain, who is the owner of the boat. They sail
out to sea, drop anchor, and fish with hook and line. Half of what is caught belongs to the
captain, and the other half is equally divided among the other five men. They can scarcely
supply the market, so great is the demand for fish at the Bay and in Cape Town. We were informed
that a captain has been known to make as much as eight pounds in a single day; that is nearly
forty dollars. Of course, there are days when they have poorer luck. Some days the wind blows
such a gale that they are unable to go to sea at all.

It is a beautiful sight to see the little fleet return. Hundreds of people will gather about
the landing and await their coming.

Farther up the bay, a drag net is used. On the day of our visit we were fortunate in being
just in time to see a net land "full of great fishes." As the net is hauled near the shore,
the fishermen all get around it, holding the lower portion of it down to keep the fish from
escaping under it and holding the upper portion above the water to keep them from jumping over
it. As the fish are drawn into shallow water they become very active, and notwithstanding the
vigilance of the crew, some will make their escape. The captain would shout impulsively to
the men; I could not understand him as he expressed himself in "Cape Dutch," but from the contortions
of his face and the frightened look of the men, I guess he must have been using language that
would not have been suitable in a church service. "A good haul," some one remarked when the
net was finally landed.

BISHOP ATTICUS G. HAYGOOD

W. H. CROGMAN

It is indeed the peculiar glory of the truly great man, that he cannot be restricted within
the State lines or race lines. Wide as the sweep of his sympathies is the empire of hearts
over which he rules. To those of us, therefore, whose good fortune it was to be personally
acquainted with Bishop Haygood, it was never a surprise that his influence in both sections
of country and among all classes of people was so large and so commanding. He was a man of
large sympathy, that royal quality in the human breast which invariably distinguishes the generous
person from the mean, that divine quality which, despite our prejudices and antipathies, "makes
the whole world kin," and is at the bottom of all Christian and philanthropic endeavor.

A thousand instances of kindness on the part of the good bishop to persons of all sorts and
colors might, I suppose, be cited here in support of the statement made with reference to his
sympathetic disposition. Many of these little acts of pure benevolence, never intended for
the light, are fast coming to light under the shadow cast by his death. For as dark nights
best reveal the stars, so the gloom that at times envelopes a human life discovers to us its
hidden virtues.

This much, however, the world knows in common of Bishop Haygood: He was not a man who passed
through life inquiring, "Who is my neighbor?" His neighbor was the ignorant that needed to
be instructed, the vicious that needed to be reclaimed, the despondent that needed to be encouraged.
Wherever honest effort was being made for a noble purpose, there he found his neighbor, and
his neighbor found a helper. Like "The Man of Galilee," he was abroad in the land, studying
the needs of the people and striving to reach and influence individual lives.

HOW TWO COLORED CAPTAINS FELL

RALPH W. TYLER

A colored unit was ordered to charge, and take, if possible, a very difficult objective held
by the Germans. Captains Fairfax and Green, two colored officers, were in command of the detachments.
They made the charge, running into several miles of barb-wire entanglements, and hampered by
a murderous fire from nests of German machine guns which were camouflaged.

Just before charging, one of the colored sergeants, running up to Captain Fairfax, said: "Do
you know there is a nest of German machine guns ahead?"

The Captain replied: "I only know we have been ordered to go forward, and we are going."

Those were the last words he said, before giving the command to charge, "into the jaws of death."
The colored troops followed their intrepid leader with all the enthusiasm and dash characteristic
of patriots and courageous fighters. They went forward, they obeyed the order, and as a result
sixty-two men and two officers were listed in the casualties reported.

Captain Fairfax's last words, "I only know we have been ordered to go forward, and we are going,"
are words that will forever live in the memory of his race; they are words that match those
of Sergeant Carney, the color sergeant of the 54th Massachusetts during the Civil War, who,
although badly wounded, held the tattered, shot-pierced Stars and Stripes aloft and exclaimed,
"The old flag never touched the ground!"

Men who have served under Captains Fairfax and Green say two braver officers never fought and fell.

THE YOUNG WARRIOR

JAMES WELDON JOHNSON

    Mother, shed no mournful tears,
    But gird me on my sword;
    And give no utterance to thy fears,
    But bless me with thy word.

    The lines are drawn! The fight is on!
    A cause is to be won!
    Mother, look not so white and wan;
    Give Godspeed to thy son.

    Now let thine eyes my way pursue
    Where'er my footsteps fare;
    And when they lead beyond thy view,
    Send after me a prayer.

    But pray not to defend from harm,
    Nor danger to dispel;
    Pray, rather that with steadfast arm
    I fight the battle well.

    Pray, mother of mine, that I always keep
    My heart and purpose strong,
    My sword unsullied and ready to leap
    Unsheathed against the wrong.

WHOLE REGIMENTS DECORATED

EMMETT J. SCOTT

Four Negro regiments won the signal honor of being awarded the Croix de Guerre as a regiment.
These were the 365th, the 369th, the 371st and the 372d. The 369th (old 15th New York National
Guard) was especially honored for its record of 191 days on the firing line, exceeding by five
days the term of service at the front of any other American regiment.

ON PLANTING ARTICHOKES

FROM THE LIFE OF SCOTT BOND

DANIEL A. RUDD AND THEODORE BOND

I was living at one time on a farm, which I had bought near Forrest City, known as the Neely
farm. It was also known as a fine fruit farm. The land being upland was of a poor nature. I
bought the farm mainly on account of the health of my wife and children. I paid old man Neely
$900 for 120 acres. This farm was two and a half miles from my main bottom farm. After moving
on the Neely place and getting straight, I looked over the farm and finding that the land was
far from fertile, I decided to sow the whole farm in peas, knowing peas were a legume and hence
fine to put life into the soil. I excepted several small spots that I planted in corn.

I got a fine stand of peas, and looked as if I would make worlds of pea hay. When the peas
were ripe I took my mower and rake to harvest my hay crop. This was the first time I had undertaken
to cultivate this class of land. I prepared to house the hay and after the hay was cut and
raked, I only got one-tenth of the amount of hay I counted on. I prepared the land that fall
and sowed it down in clover. I got a fine stand. The clover grew and did well. The next year
I took two four-horse wagons and hauled from the Allen farm large loads of defective cotton
seed. I turned all this under and planted the land the next year in corn. I made and gathered
a large corn crop that year.

I was at that time taking a farm paper and I would usually sit at night and entertain my wife,
while she was sewing. I read an article, where a party in Illinois had claimed that he had
gathered 900 bushels of artichokes from one acre of land. That did not look reasonable to me
at that time. I said to my wife: "Listen to what a mistake this fellow has made. He claims
to have gathered 900 bushels of artichokes from one acre of land." This seemed impossible to me.

In the next issue of this paper I read where another man claimed to have raised 1,100 bushels
to the acre. This put me at a further wonder as to the artichoke crop. I decided to try a crop
of artichokes. I had a very nice spot of land that I thought would suit me for this purpose.
I prepared it as I would prepare land for Irish potatoes, knowing that artichokes were, like
the Irish potato, a tuber. I took a four-horse wagon and hauled one and a half tons of rotten
cotton seed, and of this I put a double handful every 18 inches apart in the drill; I then
dropped the artichokes between the hills. I cultivated first as I would Irish potatoes. The
plants grew luxuriantly and were all the way from 8 to 12 feet tall.

About the 10th of August I noticed the plants were blooming and it occurred to me that there
must be artichokes on the roots. I got my spade and began to dig. I could not find a single
artichoke. I took my spade back home and decided within myself that both parties were mistaken
when they claimed to have grown so many hundreds of bushels to the acre. After a few days I
went to my lower farm and started picking cotton, and was as busy as busy could be all that
fall gathering and housing my cotton crop as usual.

Just before Christmas I promised my wife that I would be at home on Christmas Eve in order
to accompany her to our church conference. I was on time according to my promise, helped her
to get her household affairs straight and the children settled. I had bought my wife a beautiful
cape. She took the cape, I took my overcoat and off we went. In order to take a near route
we decided to climb the fence and go through the artichoke patch. As we had none of the children
along I, helping her over the fence, recalled our old days when we were courting. I remarked
to her:

"Gee whiz, wife, you certainly look good under that cape!"

She said, "Do you think so?"

"Yes, I have always thought that you looked good."

By this time we had gotten to the middle of the artichoke patch. I grabbed an artichoke stalk
and tried to pull it up. I made one or two surges and it failed to come, but in bending it
over I found a great number of artichokes attached to the tap root. I asked my wife to wait
a few minutes. She asked me what I was going to do. I told her I would run back and get the
grubbing hoe and see what is under these artichokes. She said, "Doesn't this beat the band?
Stop on your way to church to go to digging artichokes."

"All right, I will be back in a few minutes."

I came with my grubbing hoe and went to work. I dug on all sides of the stalk, then raised
it up. I believe I am safe in saying there was a half bushel of artichokes on the roots of
this stalk. I then noticed that the dirt in the drills, the sides of the rows, and the middles
were all puffed up. One could not stick the end of his finger in the ground without touching
an artichoke. I found that the whole earth was matted with artichokes. I really believe that
had I had a full acre in and could have gathered all the artichokes, I would have gotten at
least 1,500 bushels.

I told my wife that now I could see that those people had told the truth when they said they
had gathered 900 bushels and 1,100 bushels to the acre.

When I returned from church, I at once turned my hogs into the artichoke patch. I then climbed
up on the fence and took a seat to watch the hogs root and crush artichokes. I looked around
and saw my clover had made a success, the little artichoke patch had turned out wonderfully.
I said to myself: "Just think of millions and millions of dollars deposited in all these lands,
both rich and poor soils. And just to think how easy this money could be obtained if one would
think right and hustle."

A SONG OF THANKS

EDWARD SMYTH JONES

    For the sun that shone at the dawn of spring,
    For the flowers which bloom and the birds that sing,
    For the verdant robe of the grey old earth,
    For her coffers filled with their countless worth,
    For the flocks which feed on a thousand hills,
    For the rippling streams which turn the mills,
    For the lowing herds in the lovely vale,
    For the songs of gladness on the gale,--
    From the Gulf and the Lakes to the Oceans' banks,--
    Lord God of Hosts, we give Thee thanks!

    For the farmer reaping his whitened fields,
    For the bounty which the rich soil yields,
    For the cooling dews and refreshing rains,
    For the sun which ripens the golden grains,
    For the bearded wheat and the fattened swine,
    For the stallèd ox and the fruitful vine,
    For the tubers large and cotton white,
    For the kid and the lambkin, frisk and blithe,
    For the swan which floats near the river-banks,--
    Lord God of Hosts, we give Thee thanks!

    For the pumpkin sweet and the yellow yam,
    For the corn and beans and the sugared ham,
    For the plum and the peach and the apple red,
    For the clustering nut trees overhead.

OUR DUMB ANIMALS

SILAS X. FLOYD

Domestic animals--like horses, cats and dogs--seem to be almost as dependent upon kind treatment
and affection as human beings. Horses and dogs especially are the most keenly intelligent of
our dumb friends, and are alike sensitive to cruelty in any form. They are influenced to an
equal degree by kind and affectionate treatment.

If there is any form of cruelty that is more blameworthy than another, it is abuse of a faithful
horse who gives his life to the service of the owner. When a horse is pulling a heavy load
with all his might, doing the best he can to move under it, to strike him, spur him, or swear
at him is barbarous. To kick a dog around or strike him with sticks just for the fun of hearing
him yelp or seeing him run, is equally barbarous. No high-minded man, no high-minded boy or
girl, would do such a thing.

We should never forget how helpless, in a large sense, dumb animals are--and how absolutely
dependent upon the humanity and kindness of their owners. They are really the slaves of man,
having no language by which to express their feelings or needs.

Boys and girls should be willing to pledge themselves to be kind to all harmless living creatures,
and every boy and girl should strive to protect such creatures from cruel usage on the part
of others. It is noble, boys and girls, for us to speak for those that cannot speak for themselves,
and it is noble, also, for us to protect those that cannot protect themselves.

A LEGEND OF THE BLUE JAY

RUTH ANNA FISHER

It was a hot, sultry day in May and the children in the little school in Virginia were wearily
waiting for the gong to free them from lessons for the day. Furtive glances were directed towards
the clock. The call of the birds and fields was becoming more and more insistent. Would the
hour never strike!

"The Planting of the Apple-tree" had no interest for them.

The teacher, who had long since stopped trying to make the lesson interesting, found herself
saying mechanically, "What other birds have their nests in the apple-tree?"

The boy shifted lazily from one foot to the other as he began, "The sparrow, the robin, and
wrens, and--the snow-birds and blue-jays--"

"No, they don't, blue-jays don't have nests," came the excited outburst from some of the children,
much to the surprise of the teacher.

When order was restored some of these brown-skinned children, who came from the heart of the
Virginian mountains, told this legend of the blue-jay.

Long, long years ago, the devil came to buy the blue-jay's soul, for which he first offered
a beautiful golden ear of corn. This the blue-jay liked and wanted badly, but said, "No, I
cannot take it in exchange for my soul." Then the devil came again, this time with a bright
red ear of corn which was even more lovely than the golden one.

This, too, the blue-jay refused. At last the devil came to offer him a wonderful blue ear.
This one the blue-jay liked best of all, but still was unwilling to part with his soul. Then
the devil hung it up in the nest, and the blue-jay found that it exactly matched his own brilliant
feathers, and knew at once that he must have it. The bargain was quickly made. And now in payment
for that one blue ear of corn each Friday the blue-jay must carry one grain of sand to the
devil, and sometimes he gets back on Sunday, but oftener not until Monday.

Very seriously the children added, "And all the bad people are going to burn until the blue-jays
have carried all the grains of sand in the ocean to the devil."

The teacher must have smiled a little at the legend, for the children cried out again, "It
is so. 'Deed it is, for doesn't the black spot on the blue-jay come because he gets his wings
scorched, and he doesn't have a nest like other birds."

Then, to dispel any further doubts the teacher might have, they asked triumphantly, "You never
saw a blue-jay on Friday, did you?"

There was no need to answer, for just then the gong sounded and the children trooped happily
out to play.

DAVID LIVINGSTONE

BENJAMIN BRAWLEY

When Livingstone began his work of exploration in 1849, practically all of Africa between the
Sahara and the Dutch settlements in the extreme South was unknown territory. By the time of
his death in 1873 he had brought this entire region within the view of civilization. On his
first journey, or series of journeys (1849-1856,) starting from Cape Town, he made his way
northward for a thousand miles to Lake Ngami; then pushing on to Linyanti, he undertook one
of the most perilous excursions of his entire career, his objective for more than a thousand
miles being Loanda on the West Coast, which point he reached after six months in the wilderness.

Coming back to Linyanti, he turned his face eastward, discovered Victoria Falls on the Zambesi,
and finally arrived at Cuilimane on the coast. On his second series of journeys (1858-1864)
he explored the Zambesi, the Shire, and the Rovuma rivers in the East, and discovered Lake
Nyasa. On his final expedition (1866-1873), in hunting for the upper courses of the Nile, he
discovered Lakes Tanganyika, Mweru, and Bangweolo, and the Lualaba River. His achievement as
an explorer was as distinct as it was unparalleled. His work as a missionary and his worth
as a man it is not quite so easy to express concretely; but in these capacities he was no less
distinguished and his accomplishment no less signal.

There had been missionaries, and great ones, in Africa before Livingstone. The difference between
Livingstone and consecrated men was not so much in devotion as in the conception of the task.
He himself felt that a missionary in the Africa of his day was to be more than a mere preacher
of the word--that he would have also to be a Christian statesman, and even a director of exploration
and commerce if need be. This was his title to greatness; to him "the end of the geographical
feat was only the beginning of the enterprise." Knowing, however, that many honest persons
did not sympathize with him in this conception of his mission, after 1856 he declined longer
to accept salary from the missionary society that originally sent him out, working afterwards
under the patronage of the British Government and the Royal Geographical Society.

His sympathy and his courtesy were unfailing, even when he himself was placed in the greatest
danger.

Again and again his party would have been destroyed by some savage chieftain if it had not
been for his own unbounded tact and courage.

Livingstone was a man of tremendous faith, in his mission, in his country, in humanity, in
God. Future missionaries will see conversions follow every sermon. We prepare the way for them.

Of such quality was David Livingstone--Missionary, Explorer, Philanthropist. To what extent
after sixty years have we advanced toward his ideals? With what justice are we the inheritors
of his renown?

IRA ALDRIDGE

WILLIAM J. SIMMONS

The name of Aldridge has always been placed at the head of the list of Negro actors. He has
indeed become the most noted of them, and his name is cited as standing first in his calling
among all colored persons who have ever appeared on the stage. He was born at Belaire, near
Baltimore, in 1804. In complexion he was dark brown, and with heavy whiskers; standing six
feet in height, with heavy frame, African features, and yet with due proportions; he was graceful
in his attitudes, highly polished in manners.

In his early days he was apprenticed to a ship carpenter, and had his association with the
Germans on the western shores of Maryland. Here he became familiar with the German language
and spoke it not only with ease but with fluency. He was brought in contact with Edmund Kean,
the great actor, in 1826, whom he accompanied in his trip through Europe. His ambition to become
an actor was encouraged by Kean, and receiving his assistance in the preparation, he made his
appearance first at the Royalty Theatre in London, in the character of Othello. Public applause
greeted him of such an extraordinary nature, that he was billed to appear at the Covent Garden
Theatre April 10, 1839, in the same character.

After many years' successful appearances in many of the metropolitan cities, he appeared in
the Provinces with still greater success. In Ireland he performed Othello, with Edmund Kean
as Iago. In 1852 he appeared in Germany in Shakespearean characters. He was pronounced excellent,
and though a stranger and a foreigner, he undertook the very difficult task of playing in English,
while his whole support was rendered in the language of the country. It is said that until
this time, such an experiment was not considered susceptible of a successful end, but nevertheless,
with his impersonations he succeeded admirably. It is said that the King of Prussia was so
deeply moved with his appearance in the character of Othello, at Berlin, that he spent him
a congratulatory letter, and conferred upon him the title of chevalier, in recognition of his
dramatic genius, and informed him that the lady who took the part of Desdemona was so much
affected at the manner in which he played his part that she was made ill from fright on account
of the reality with which he acted his part.

Some idea of the character of his acting might be gained from the fact that the lady who played
Desdemona in St. Petersburg, became very much alarmed at what appeared real passion on his
part, in acting Othello; though he was never rough or indelicate in any of his acting with
ladies, yet she was so frightened that she used to scream with real fear.

It is said that on another occasion in St. Petersburg, that in the midst of his acting in scene
two, act five, when he was quoting these words,

    "It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul;
    Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars!
    It is the cause. Yet I'll not shed her blood,
    Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow,
    And smooth as monumental alabaster. The next day he learned,
while dining with a Russian prince, that a young man who had been
present had been so affected by the play that he had been seized with a
sudden illness and died the next day.

Mr. Aldridge was a welcome guest in the ranks of the cultured and wealthy, and was often in
the "salons" of the haughty aristocrats of St. Petersburg and Moscow. Titled ladies wove, knitted
and stitched their pleasing emotions into various memorials of friendship. In his palatial
residence at Sydenham, near London, were collected many presents of intrinsic value, rendered
almost sacred by association. Prominent among these tokens of regard was an autographic letter
from the King of Prussia, transmitting the first medal of art and sciences; the Cross of Leopold,
from the Emperor of Russia, and a Maltese cross received at Berne.

In all his triumphs he never lost interest in the condition of his race. He always took an
interest in everything touching their welfare, and though exalted to the companionship of those
who ranked high in every department of life, yet he never in any way forgot the humble race
with which he was identified, and was always solicitous for their welfare and promotion. He
was an associate of the most prominent men of Paris, among whom was Alexander Dumas. When the
great tragedian and great writer met they always kissed each other, and Dumas always greeted
Aldridge with the words Mon Confrère. He died at Lodes, in Poland, August 7, 1867.

FIFTY YEARS

1863-1913

JAMES WELDON JOHNSON

    O brothers mine, to-day we stand
    Where half a century sweeps our ken,
    Since God, through Lincoln's ready hand,
    Struck off our bonds and made us men.

    Just fifty years--a winter's day--
    As runs the history of a race;
    Yet, as we look back o'er the way,
    How distant seems our starting place!

    Look farther back! Three centuries!
    To where a naked, shivering score,
    Snatched from their haunts across the seas,
    Stood wild-eyed, on Virginia's shore.

    Far, far the way that we have trod,
    From heathen kraals and jungle dens,
    To freedmen, freemen, sons of God,
    Americans and Citizens.

    A part of His unknown design,
    We've lived within a mighty age;
    And we have helped to write a line
    On history's most wondrous page.

    A few black bondmen strewn along
    The borders of our eastern coast,
    Now grown a race, ten million strong,
    An upward, onward marching host.

    Then let us here erect a stone,
    To mark the place, to mark the time;
    A witness to God's mercies shown,
    A pledge to hold this day sublime.

    And let that stone an altar be,
    Whereon thanksgivings we may lay,
    Where we, in deep humility,
    For faith and strength renewed may pray.

    With open hearts ask from above
    New zeal, new courage and new pow'rs,
    That we may grow more worthy of
    This country and this land of ours.

    For never let the thought arise
    That we are here on sufferance bare;
    Outcasts, asylumed 'neath these skies
    And aliens without part or share.

    This land is ours by right of birth,
    This land is ours by right of toil;
    We helped to turn its virgin earth,
    Our sweat is in its fruitful soil.

    Where once the tangled forest stood,--
    Where flourished once rank weed and thorn,--
    Behold the path-traced, peaceful wood,
    The cotton white, the yellow corn.

    To gain these fruits that have been earned,
    To hold these fields that have been won,
    Our arms have strained, our backs have burned,
    Bent bare beneath a ruthless sun.

    That Banner which is now the type
    Of victory on field and flood--
    Remember, its first crimson stripe
    Was dyed by Attucks' willing blood.

    And never yet has come the cry--
    When that fair flag has been assailed--
    For men to do, for men to die,
    That have we faltered or have failed.

    We've helped to bear it, rent and torn,
    Through many a hot-breath'd battle breeze;
    Held in our hands, it has been borne
    And planted far across the seas.

    And never yet--O haughty Land,
    Let us, at least, for this be praised--
    Has one black, treason-guided hand
    Ever against that flag been raised.

    Then should we speak but servile words,
    Or shall we hang our heads in shame?
    Stand back of new-come foreign hordes,
    And fear our heritage to claim?

    No! stand erect and without fear,
    And for our foes let this suffice--
    We've bought a rightful sonship here,
    And we have more than paid the price.

    And yet, my brothers, well I know
    The tethered feet, the pinioned wings,
    The spirit bowed beneath the blow,
    The heart grown faint from wounds and stings;

    The staggering force of brutish might,
    That strikes and leaves us stunned and dazed;
    The long, vain waiting through the night
    To hear some voice for justice raised.

    Full well I know the hour when hope
    Sinks dead, and 'round us everywhere
    Hangs stifling darkness, and we grope
    With hands uplifted in despair.

    Courage! Look out, beyond, and see
    The far horizon's beckoning span!
    Faith in your God-known destiny!
    We are a part of some great plan.

    Because the tongues of Garrison
    And Phillips now are cold in death,
    Think you their work can be undone?
    Or quenched the fires lit by their breath?

    Think you that John Brown's spirit stops?
    That Lovejoy was but idly slain?
    Or do you think those precious drops
    From Lincoln's heart were shed in vain?

    That for which millions prayed and sighed,
    That for which tens of thousands fought,
    For which so many freely died,
    God cannot let it come to naught.

A GREAT KINGDOM IN THE CONGO

WILLIAM HENRY SHEPPARD

I had studied the new dialect of the Bakuba and had made every preparation for our expedition
into the "Forbidden Land" of King Lukenga. I had met their people, a far interior tribe, and
was interested in their apparent superiority in physique, manners, dress and dialect. I asked
to be allowed to accompany them to their country and king, but they said it was impossible,
their king would never allow a foreigner to come into the interior. Nevertheless I determined
to seek them out and after some weeks had elapsed, I called our station natives together and
laid plainly before them the perils of the journey. I told them, from the information which
I had, that the trails which had been made by elephant, buffalo, antelope and Bakuba natives
were many and they led over long, hot, sandy plains through deep dark forests, across streams
without bridges, and through swamps infested with wild animals and poisonous serpents. And
above all, the king had sent word throughout the land that we could not enter his country.
Not a man's muscle moved, and there was not a dissenting voice.

I had picked up the Bakuba dialect from some of the king's traders and tax collectors who journeyed
our way. I received from them much information of the general direction leading north toward
the capital, the names of large towns on the way, of the market towns, the approximate distances
apart, the streams to be crossed, and their names; of the leopard, buffalo and elephant zones,
and the names of some of the chiefs of the market towns, etc.

Two days later, when all was in readiness, tents loaded, cooking utensils, a bag of money (cowrie
shells), some salt, etc., we left Luebo, led by the Master's hand.

The trail lay northeast by north with a gradual ascent. The country was well wooded and watered.
No stones could be seen anywhere, and the soil was sandy. There were many extensive plains
with magnificent palm trees, hundreds and thousands of them ranging from a foot high, which
the elephants fed upon, to those fifty and sixty feet high. The forest everywhere was ever
green. Trees blossomed and bloomed, sending out upon the gentle breeze their fragrance, so
acceptable to the traveler. Festoons of moss and running vines made the forest look like a
beautifully painted theatre or an enormous swinging garden.

In the meantime word had come to the king of Lukenga of our presence and, as we neared his
kingdom, we were met by a party of fighting men. My caravan had been resting in the village
of a chief named Kueta, who had repeatedly urged me to turn back, and, as the righting men
of King Lukenga appeared, the chief's men fled to the forest. I sat quietly, however, in my
seat in front of my tent and my people began to gather around my chair, the youngest of the
caravan nestling on his knees very close to me. The king's people drew near and the leading
man, spear in hand, called to Chief Kueta in a voice that rang through the village:

"Now hear the words of King Lukenga: Because you have entertained a foreigner in your village,
we have come to take you to the capital for trial."

I knew things were now serious, so rising from my seat I called to the head man to meet me
half way. He paid no attention. I called a second time and walked up to him and began to plead
for Chief Kueta.

"I understand you are sent by your king to arrest these people."

"It is the word of the king," said he.

I continued, "The chief of this village is not guilty; he gave me warning and told me to go
away, to return the way I had come, and I did not. It is my fault and not Kueta's."

The leader, leaning on his spear, replied,

"You speak our language?"

"I do," was my quick answer.

"That is strange," said he.

The leader and his men moved off some distance and talked between themselves. In a little while
he came back to me saying, "I will return to the capital and report these things to the king."

I said to him, "Tell your king I am not a bad man; I do not steal or kill; I have a message
for him. Wait a moment," said I. Taking from one of my boxes a very large cowrie shell, near
the size of one's fist, and holding it up, I said, "This we call the father of cowries; present
it to the king as a token of friendship."

The men were soon off for the capital and we settled down, hoping and praying for the best.
Kueta told me that the head man was King Lukenga's son and his name was N'Toinzide.

N'Toinzide stood more than six feet, of bronze color, blind in one eye, determined set lips,
and seemed a man fearless of any foe--man or beast. The villagers told me many things of the
king's son, both good and bad.

After some days the messengers reached the capital and reported to King Lukenga. "We saw the
foreigner; he speaks our language, he knows all the trails of the country."

The king was astonished and called a council and laid the matter before them. They deliberated
over the affair and finally told the king that they knew who I was.

"The foreigner who is at Bixibing," said they, "who has come these long trails and who speaks
our language is a Makuba, one of the early settlers who died, and whose spirit went to a foreign
country and now he has returned."

The messengers hastened to return and accompany me to the capital.

We had been longing and praying for days for the best. With the king's special envoy were many
more men who had come through mere curiosity, as was their custom.

N'Toinzide stood in the center of the town and called with his loud voice saying who I was
and giving briefly my history.

The villagers were indeed happy. They flocked around as the king's son drew near and extended
their hands to me.

I arose from my chair and made these remarks: "I have heard distinctly all that you have said,
but I am not a Makuba; I have never been here before."

N'Toinzide insisted that they were right, and said that his father, the king, wanted me to
come on at once to the capital. The people were mighty happy, Kueta, our host, the townspeople,
and my people, too. Their appetites came back, and so did mine.

With a hasty good-bye, "Gala hola," to Kueta, we were off.

On the last morning our trail grew larger, the country more open, and the ascent greater, until
we stood upon an extensive plain and had a beautiful view in every direction of all the land
as far as we could see.

We could see in the distance thousands and thousands of banana and palm trees and our escort
of Bakuba cried out, "Muxenge! muxenge!" (meaning capital! capital!). Just before entering
the great town we were halted at a small guard post consisting of a few houses and some men
who were the king's watchmen. They told me that on each of the four entrances to the capital
these sentries were stationed. A man was dispatched to notify the king that we were near. In
a short while the people came out of the town to meet and greet us, hundreds of them, and many
little children, too. Some of my caravan were frightened and would run away, but I told them
that the oncoming crowd meant no harm.

N'Toinzide, the king's son, with spear in hand, took the lead and the interested and excited
crowd after getting a peep at me fell in behind.

We marched down a broad, clean street, lined on both sides by interested spectators jostling,
gesticulating, talking aloud and laughing. The young boys and girls struck up a song which
sounded to me like a band of sweet music and we all kept step to it. N'Toinzide called a halt
at a house which I presume was 15 x 25 feet in size. You could enter the doors front and back
almost without stooping. The house was made like all the others of bamboo and had two rooms.
There were a number of clay pots of various sizes for cooking and six large gourds for water.
My caravan was comfortably housed. I did not put up my tent, but took my seat in a reclining
chair under a large palm tree in front of my door. The crowd was immense, but we had them sit
down on the ground so we could get a breath of air.

In the afternoon the king sent greetings, and fourteen goats, six sheep, a number of chickens,
corn, pumpkins, large dried fish, bushels of peanuts, bunches of bananas and plantains and
a calabash of palm oil and other food.

The prime minister, N'Dola, who brought the greetings, mentioned that the king would see me
next day; also that the king's servants would take out of the village all goats and chickens
which I did not want for immediate use.

For, said N'Dola, no sheep, goats, hogs, dogs, ducks or chickens are allowed in the king's town.

In the evening we started our song service and I delivered to them our King's message. The
crowd was great. The order was good. I went to rest with the burden of these people upon my
heart, and thanking God that He had led, protected and brought us through close places safely
to the "Forbidden Land."

Early in the morning we heard the blast of ivory horns calling the attention of the people
to put on their best robes and be in readiness for the big parade. I saw there was great activity
in the town, men and women hurrying to and fro. Soon two stalwart Bakuba, with their red kilts
on and feathers in their hats appeared before my house and announced their readiness to accompany
me before King Lukenga.

They noticed an old brass button tied by a string around the neck of one of my men. Very politely
they removed it, saying, "Only the king can wear brass or copper."

I was dressed in what had once been white linen. Coat, trousers, white canvas shoes and pith
helmet. The officials on either side took me by the arm; we walked a block up the broad street,
turned to the right and walked three blocks till we came to the big town square. Thousands
of the villagers had already taken their position and were seated on the green grass. King
Lukenga, his high officials and about 300 of his wives occupied the eastern section of the
square. The players of stringed instruments and drummers were in the center, and as we appeared
a great shout went up from the people. The king's servants ran and spread leopard skins along
the ground leading to his majesty. I approached with some timidity. The king arose from his
throne of ivory, stretched forth his hand and greeted me with these words, "Wyni" (You have
come). I bowed low, clapped my hands in front of me, and answered, "Ndini, Nyimi" (I have come,
king).

As the drums beat and the harps played the king's sons entered the square and danced one after
the other single handed, brandishing their big knives in the air. The king's great chair, or
throne, was made of carved tusks of ivory, and his feet rested upon lion skins. I judged him
to have been a little more than six feet high and with his crown, which was made of eagle feathers,
he towered over all. The king's dress consisted of a red loin cloth, draped neatly about his
waist in many folds. He wore a broad belt decorated with cowrie shells and beads. His armlets
and anklets were made of polished cowrie shells reaching quite above the wrists and ankles.
These decorations were beautifully white. His feet were painted with powdered canwood, resembling
morocco boots. The king weighed about 200 pounds. He wore a pleasant smile. He looked to be
eighty years old, but he was as active as a middle-aged man.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the sun was setting in the west the king stood up, made a slight bow to his people and to
me. His slaves were ready with his cowrie-studded hammock to take him to his place, for his
feet must never touch the ground. His hammock was like the body of a buggy carried on two long
poles upon the shoulders of many men. Through the shouts of the people I was accompanied back
to my resting place. It was the most brilliant affair I had seen in Africa, but my! I was so
glad when it was all over.

The town was laid off east and west. The broad streets ran at right angles, and there were
blocks just as in any town. Those in a block were always related in some way. Around each house
is a court and a high fence made of heavy matting of palm leaves, and around each block there
is also a high fence, so you enter these homes by the many gates. Each block has a chief called
Mbambi, and he is responsible to King Lukenga for his block. When the king will deliver a message
to the whole village or part of it, these chiefs are sent for and during the early evenings
they ring their iron hand bells and call out in a loud voice the message in five minutes. The
king desired of his own heart to give me peanuts for my people. I heard the messengers delivering
the word and the next morning we had more peanuts than we could manage.

There was not a visible light anywhere in the whole town. "A chunk or two" is always kept smouldering
in the center of the house on the clay floor. The housewife is always careful to have a handful
of split dry bamboo near, and when anyone is stung by a scorpion or snake (which often happens)
they start up a blaze and hunt for the intruder and medicine.

When there is neither moon nor stars it is truly a land of awful darkness, and is made more
dismal by the yelping of the jackal on the plain. The moon shines more brightly and beautifully
than on Lukenga's plain. And the beauty is enhanced by the thousands of majestic palms, and
the singing of birds with voices like the mocking bird and the nightingale. I have sat in front
of my house moonlight nights until 12 and 1 o'clock.

Every morning the "courts" and streets were swept. Men who had committed some offense were
compelled to pull weeds and sweep the streets clean.

There is a rule in all Bakuba villages that every man every day sweep before his own door.
The only littered places I observed were at the four public entrances of the town where markets
were held daily at 6 A.M., 12 noon and 5 P.M.--sugar cane, pulp, banana and plantain peelings,
and peanut shells.

When the king's drum taps the signal about 9 P.M. at the conclusion of the sleep song there
is not a sound again in the whole village.

All the natives we have met in the Kasal are, on the whole, honest. Our private dwellings have
never been locked day or night. Your pocketbook is a sack of cowries or salt tied at the mouth
with a string. But now and then something happens. N'susa, one of the boys of my caravan, misappropriated
some cowries. I called him (in the presence of two witnesses) in question about the matter.
He acknowledged removing the shells and innocently remarked, "You are the same as my father,
and what is his is mine."

From the great Lukenga plateau as far as the eye can look you see villages dotted everywhere.
You never find a family living alone isolated from the village. The people live together for
mutual protection from enemies and animals. And usually everybody in a village is related in
some near or distant way; but it does not keep them from fighting occasionally.

The Bakuba are monogamists. A young man sees a girl whom he likes; he has met her in his own
town or at some other, or perhaps at a market place or a dance. He sends her tokens of love,
bananas, plantains, peanuts, dried fish or grasshoppers. She in turn sends him similar presents.

They often meet, sit down on the green, laugh and talk together. I have seen the girls often
blush and really put on airs. He asks her to have him, if she has no one else on her heart,
and tells her that he wants no one to eat the crop that is in the field but her. The girl and
the parents both agree.

On a set day when the market is in full blast, with hundreds of people from everywhere, the
young man and girl, with their young friends, all dressed in their best robes, meet and march
Indian file through the open market and receive congratulations from everybody.

The new bride and groom continue their march to the already prepared house of the young man.
A feast of goat, sheep, monkey, chicken or fish, with plenty of palm wine is served and all
is ended with a big dance.

The women of the king's household select their own husbands, and no man dare decline; and no
man would ever be so rude or presumptuous as to ask for the hand and heart of royalty.

The husband knows that he must cut down the forest and assist in planting corn, millet, beans,
pease, sweet potatoes and tobacco, hunt for game, bring the palm wine, palm nuts, make his
wife's garments and repair the house. He is never to be out after 8 o'clock at night unless
sitting up at a wake or taking part in a public town dance.

The young man before marriage sends a certain number of well-woven mats and so many thousands
of cowries to the parents of the girl as a dowry. If they cease to love and must part, even
twenty rainy seasons from marriage, the dowry or its equivalent is returned to the man.

The wife is expected to shave and anoint the husband's body with palm oil, keep his toenails
and fingernails manicured, bring water and wood, help in the field, cook his food, and take
care of the children.

I have had many a man come and ask to buy love medicine. They think charms and medicine can
do anything. I always told them, of course, that it was a matter of the girl's heart, and charms
or medicine could not help out in their "love affairs."

The Bakuba are morally a splendid people. I have asked a number of Bakuba what was their real
ideal of life, and they invariably answered to have a big corn field, marry a good wife, and
have many children.

We were astounded when we saw the first new-born baby. It was so very light. But in a few weeks
the youngster rallied to his colors and we were assured that he would never change again.

No baby is born in the regularly occupied house. A small house is built in the back yard and
is surrounded by a fence of palm fronds. No one is admitted into the enclosure but a few women.
The new youngster receives a bath of palm oil, then the notice is given and all the friends
of the family with jugs of cold water vie with each other in giving mother and baby a shower
bath. The drums beat and the dance in water and mud continues for hours.

Until you get accustomed to it you would be horrified to see the mothers stuff their young
babies. The mother nurses the baby just as any mother, but she doesn't think that sufficient.
So she has by her side a small pot of soft corn pone and a pot of water or palm oil. She makes
a large pill from the pone, dips it in the water or oil, and while the baby is lying on his
back in her lap these pills are dropped in its mouth. Then the mother uses the forefinger to
force the collection of pills down its throat. As the baby resists and kicks, water is poured
down its throat to facilitate the process. If the baby strangles, the mother will shake him
up and down a few times. When the feeding is over, he certainly looks "stuffed."

The Bakuba children have many games and but few toys. The girls have wooden dolls made by their
fathers, and the boys make from bamboo bows and arrows. They shoot mice, lizards, grasshoppers,
crickets, caterpillars, butterflies, lightning bugs, etc.

They make mud pies and play market, and tie the legs of May and June bugs to see them fly around
and buzz. They love to play housekeeping. They are also trained to do some work, as bringing
wood, sweeping or looking after the younger ones. There are no knives, forks or dishes to wash.

"Baby talk" is not used and the parents speak to the babies just as though they were speaking
to grown-ups.

I have seen the children in the streets drawing with a pointed stick or their finger on the
smooth sand, men, leopards, monkeys, crocodiles, birds, snakes and other animals.

The boys make a heap of clay and sod it, and with great speed run upon it and turn a somersault,
lighting on their feet. A string of them together will play "leap frog," and hide-and-seek
is great sport with them. In all these amusements they keep up a song.

There is one thing you will certainly see them doing, both boys and girls, and that is beating
their clenched fists into the hard clay just as hard as they can drive. A year later you will
see them driving their knuckles against a log or a tree. In this way they become hardened and
are used as a weapon in fights when they are grown. And, too, they can butt like a goat, so
in their family fights they not only use their fists but their heads.

I spent hours at King Lukenga's and other villages playing with the little folks and trying
to find out what they were thinking about. They had a name for the sun and moon, names for
very brilliant and prominent stars and ordinary ones. The sun was the father of the heavens,
the moon was his wife, and the stars were their children. The sun after going down was paddled
around in a very large canoe on the great water by men who were more than human and started
in the skies again. They knew that a year was divided into two general seasons, the rainy (eight
moons), the dry (four moons); though even in the rainy season it doesn't rain every day and
very seldom all day at any time; and in the dry season there is an occasional refreshing shower.

They knew the names of all the lakes, rivers and small streams. Roots that were good for medicine
or to eat they knew. Flowers and ferns were called by name. The names of all the many varieties
of trees, birds and animals they knew.

I was surprised to know from Maxamalinge, the king's son, that every month the king had all
the little children of the town before him and he in turn would talk to them, as a great and
good father to his own children.

The king would have his servants give to each boy and girl a handful of peanuts. When they
were out of the king's quarters there was many a scrap over these peanuts.

I grew very fond of Bakuba and it was reciprocated. They were the finest looking race I had
seen in Africa, dignified, graceful, courageous, honest, with an open, smiling countenance
and really hospitable. Their knowledge of weaving, embroidering, wood carving and smelting
was the highest in equatorial Africa.

PILLARS OF THE STATE

WILLIAM C. JASON

Young people are the life-blood of the nation, the pillars of the state. The future of the
world is wrapped up in the lives of its youth. As these unfold, the pages of history will tell
the story of deeds noble and base. Characters resplendent with jewels and ornaments of virtue
will be held up for the admiration of the world and the emulation of generations not yet born.
Others, thoughtlessly or wilfully ignoring the plain path of duty, dwarfed, blighted, rejected
of God and man, will be the sign-posts marking the road to ruin.

OATH OF AFRO-AMERICAN YOUTH

KELLY MILLER

I will never bring disgrace upon my race by any unworthy deed or dishonorable act. I will live
a clean, decent, manly life; and will ever respect and defend the virtue and honor of womanhood;
I will uphold and obey the just laws of my country and of the community in which I live, and
will encourage others to do likewise; I will not allow prejudice, injustice, insult or outrage
to cower my spirit or sour my soul; but will ever preserve the inner freedom of heart and conscience;
I will not allow myself to be overcome of evil, but will strive to overcome evil with good;
I will endeavor to develop and exert the best powers within me for my own personal improvement,
and will strive unceasingly to quicken the sense of racial duty and responsibility; I will
in all these ways aim to uplift my race so that, to everyone bound to it by ties of blood,
it shall become a bond of ennoblement and not a byword of reproach.

THE END

NOTES

BIRD, AUGUSTA--Born in Tennessee. On the clerical force of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People. Contributor to the Brownies Book.

BOND, SCOTT--Born in slavery in Mississippi. Now a wealthy farmer in Madison, Arkansas.

BRAITHWAITE, WILLIAM BEAUMONT STANLEY (1878-)--Author and critic; born in Boston. Editor of
"Anthology of Magazine Verse," published annually, "The Book of Georgian Verse," "The Book
of Restoration Verse," contributor of literary criticisms to the Boston Transcript and magazines.

BRAWLEY, BENJAMIN GRIFFITH (1882-)--Born at Columbia, S.C. A.B., Atlanta Baptist College, 1901;
A.B., University of Chicago, 1906; A.M., Harvard, 1908. Member American Historical Association,
American Geographical Society; author, "Negro in Literature and Art," "Short History of American
Negro" and booklets of verse. Dean of Morehouse College, Atlanta, Ga.

BROWN, WILLIAM WELLS (1816-?)--Born in slavery in Kentucky. Escaped in youth to the North.
Prominent lecturer in America and England. Author of "The Black Man," "Clotelle," "The Negro
in the Rebellion," "The Rising Sun," etc.

BURLEIGH, ALSTON W., son of H. T. Burleigh, the well-known composer of music.

CHESNUTT, CHARLES W. (1858-)--Born in Cleveland, Ohio. Admitted to the Ohio Bar, 1887. One
of the foremost American novelists. Author of "The House behind the Cedars," "The Wife of his
Youth," "The Marrow of Tradition," etc. Contributor to the Atlantic Monthly and Century Magazine.

COPPIN, LEVI J. (1848-)--Born at Frederickstown, Md. Bishop of African Methodist Episcopal
Church. In South Africa 1900-1904. Author of "Observations of Persons and Things in South Africa"
and a number of religious books. D. D., Wilberforce University, 1889. Ordained to ministry, 1877.

COTTER, JOSEPH S. (1861-).--Educator, author of "Negro Tales," etc.

COTTER, JOSEPH S., JR. (1897-1920)--A youth of great promise who wrote on a sick bed. Author
of "The Band of Gideon," "The White Folks' Nigger," "Out of the Shadows."

CROGMAN, WILLIAM H. (1841-)--Born on St. Martin Island, West Indies, A.B., A.M., Atlanta University,
1876, 1879; Litt. D., LL.D., Clark University, 1901. For many years associated with Clark University,
Atlanta, Ga., as president and professor. Member of the American Philosophical Association.

CROMWELL, JAMES W. (1846-)--Born Portsmouth, Va. LL.B., Harvard 1874; hon. A.M. Wilberforce
University, 1914. Admitted to Bar, District of Columbia, 1874. First colored lawyer to appear
before Interstate Commerce Commission. Principal Crummell School, Washington, D.C.; Secretary,
American Negro Academy. Author of "The Negro in American History," etc.

DOUGLASS, FREDERICK (1817-1895)--Escaped from Maryland as a slave when a young man. Lectured
on abolition in England and America. A noble orator, a clear thinker, and an untiring advocate
of the rights of man. Published an autobiography in many editions.

DU BOIS, W. E. BURGHARDT (1868-)--Born in Great Barrington, Mass. A.B., Fisk University; A.B.
and Ph.D., Harvard. Scholar; editor of "The Crisis"; author of "The Suppression of the Slave
Trade," "The Souls of Black Folk," "Darkwater," etc.

DUNBAR, PAUL LAURENCE (1872-1906)--Born in Dayton, Ohio. Poet; author of "Oak and Ivy," "Majors
and Minors," "Lyrics of Lowly Life," "The Uncalled," "The Sport of the Gods," etc. Dunbar stands
in the forefront among American poets.

EDWARDS, WILLIAM J.--A Tuskegee graduate who founded the Snow Hill School, one of most important
industrial schools of the country. Author of "Twenty-Five Years in the Black Belt," etc.

ELLIS, GEORGE W. (1875-1920)--Lawyer and author. While serving on the American Legation to
Liberia, he studied the languages and customs of the tribes of West Africa, and wrote his books
on this subject.

FAUSET, JESSIE R.--A. B., Cornell, A.M., Pennsylvania. Associate editor of "The Crisis" and
the "Brownies' Book." Author of short stories and verses.

FISHER, RUTH ANNA--A. B., Oberlin College. Has engaged in teaching and social service work.

FLIPPER, HENRY OSSIAN--Served as lieutenant in American Army. Student and translator of Spanish.

FLOYD, SILAS X. (1869--)--A.B., A.M., Atlanta University, 1891, 1894; D.D. Morris Brown College,
1903. Principal of a school in Augusta, Ga. Author of "Floyd's Flowers," etc. Member, American
Association Political and Social Science and American Historical Association.

GRIMKE, ANGELINA--Teacher in the public schools of Washington, D.C.; author of "Rachel," etc.

HACKLEY, AZALIA--Musician, pupil of Jean de Reszke. Very successful teacher and conductor of
choruses.

HENSON, MATTHEW A.--Began life as a cabin boy. Twenty-three years Peary's companion. He was
with him at the North Pole. Thoroughly acquainted with life customs and languages of the Eskimos.

HOLTZCLAW, WILLIAM H.--A Tuskegee graduate who founded the Utica Normal and Industrial Institute
in Mississippi; author of "The Black Man's Burden," etc.

JAMIESON, R. C. (1888-1918)--Born, Winchester, Tenn. Educated at Fisk University. Author, contributor
to "The Crisis."

JOHNSON, JAMES WELDON--Poet and diplomat. At one time American Consul at Puerto Cabello, Venezuela
and Nicaragua. Author of "Fifty Years and Other Poems," "An Autobiography of an Ex-Colored
Man." Field Secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

JONES, E. S.--Author of "The Sylvan Cabin and Other Poems."

MILLER, KELLY (1863--)--Born at Winnsboro, S.C. A.M., LL.D., Howard University, 1901, 1903.
Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, Howard University. Lecturer on race problem. Member Academy
Political and Social Science, American Social Science Association, American Association for
the Advancement of Science. Author "Race Adjustment," "Out of the House of Bondage"; wrote
chapter on "Education of the Negro" in report of U.S. Bureau of Education, 1901. Contributor
to magazines and newspapers.

PENDELTON, LEILA A.--Teacher in Washington Public Schools for many years. Author of "A Narrative
of the Negro," "An Alphabet for Negro Children," etc.

PICKENS, WILLIAM (1881-)--Born in Anderson Co., S.C. A.B., Talledaga College, 1902; A.B., Yale,
1904; A.M., Fisk, 1908. Won the Ten Eyck prize for oratory, Yale, 1913. Educator and lecturer.
Formerly Dean of Morgan College, Baltimore. Associate Field Secretary for the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People. Author of "The New Negro," "The Spirit of Freedom," etc.

SCOTT, EMMETT J. (1873-)--Born at Houston, Texas. Wiley University, 1905. Secretary of Howard
University. Appointed a member of American Commission to Liberia, 1919, by President Taft.
Assistant to Secretary of War, 1914-18. Author, "The American Negro in the World War," etc.

SHEPARD, JAMES E. (1875-)--Born, Lehigh, N.C. Author, lecturer, founder of Religious Training
School at Durham, N.C. Has traveled in Europe, Africa and Asia.

SHEPPARD, WILLIAM HENRY (1865-)--Born at Waynesboro, Va. Sent by Southern Presbyterian church
as missionary to Africa, 1890. Exposed to the Congo atrocities. Fellow of the Royal Geographical
Society.

SIMMONS, WILLIAM J. (1849-?)--Born in Charleston, S.C. Boyhood of severe poverty. AB., Howard
University, 1873. Educator, editor, minister, author "His Men of Mark" which contains biographies
of 177 colored men.

STAFFORD, O. O.--Principal of Lincoln Public School, Washington, D.C. Author of "Animal Fables."

WASHINGTON, BOOKER T. (1858-1915)--Born in slavery. Graduated at Hampton Institute. Founded
Tuskegee Institute. One of the foremost educators America has produced. Author of "Up from
Slavery," "Working with the Hands," etc.

WHEATLEY, PHYLLIS (1753-1784)--Brought to Boston as a slave in her childhood. Kindly treated
and educated; became one of America's well known poets of the early period.

WHITE, WALTER, F.--Graduate of Atlanta University. Assistant Secretary of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People.

WITTEN, LILLIAN B.--Graduate Smith College. Teacher in the St. Louis High School.

       *       *       *       *       *

