It is the glaring defect in Cromwell--a defect which he had in common with many others of his
time--that he threw himself into a revolution having for its first object to remodel the civil
government, animated only with the passions of the collateral controversy upon ecclesiastical
government. He fought the battle which was to destroy the monarchy, without any fixed idea
or desire for the republican government which must be its substitute. This was not the subject
that had engaged his thoughts or inflamed his ardour. When, therefore, the royalists had been
conquered, it is not at all surprising that he should have seen nothing but the difficulties
in the way of forming a republic. At this point of his history some excuse for him may be drawn
from the very defect we are noticing. His mind had dwelt on no theory of civil government--to
the cause of the commonwealth his heart had never been pledged--and we can hardly call him,
with justice, as Godwin does, a traitor to the republic. But, on the other hand, what a gap,
what a void, does this disclose in the mind of our hero? What should we say of one who had
plunged heart and soul into the French Revolution, conducted only by his rage against the Roman
Catholic hierarchy? Such a one, had he risen to take a leading part in that drama, might have
acted with greater wisdom and moderation than ardent and patriotic men; the very absence of
any political opinion or passion might have enabled him to see more clearly than others the
position which they all occupied; but this would not justify or palliate the original error,
the rash, exclusive, self-blinding zeal which had brought him into that position.

To the ecclesiastical controversy, Cromwell clings throughout with an utter recklessness of
the fate of civil government. When episcopacy had been vanquished, and presbyterianism threatened
to take its place, he was quite as willing to plunge the whole kingdom into confusion and anarchy
in his opposition to this new enemy, as to the old. Those who would defend him from the charge
of personal ambition--all who excuse his conduct at this period of the history, put this plea
upon record,--and without a doubt his hostility to presbyterianism was a very great and leading
motive with him in his opposition to the Parliament, and his determination to prevent a reconciliation
between the House and the King. When Charles was a prisoner at the Isle of Wight, it is well
known that the Parliament were anxious to come to some terms of reconcilement, and the concessions
which he then made were voted to be "a sufficient ground for the future settlement of the kingdom."
Why did Cromwell interfere at this juncture between the two parties, in such a way as entirely
to destroy both? His best public ground is his hostility to presbyterianism. And what was the
presbytery, that to him it should be so distasteful, and an object of so great animosity? Its
forms of worship, the doctrines preached by its divines, were exactly those he himself practised
and approved. There were no altars here, no surplices, no traditions, no sympathies with Rome,
no stealthy approximations to her detested idolatries. But there was a claim put forward to
ecclesiastical supremacy, to ordain, and authorise, and control public preachers, which he
could not tolerate; and if no other motive had existed, he was ready to oppose every settlement,
at every risk, having for its object to establish a claim of this description.

We will open the Letters and Speeches of Cromwell at this period of the history, and present
our readers with a specimen of his epistolary style, and one which will go far to show how
little his mind was influenced, even at this great crisis, by any thing which we should describe
as political reasoning. Cromwell was a great administrator, but he had no vocation for speculative
politics, and little attachment to forms of government. Framers of constitutions are not in
repute at present; they have not covered themselves with applause, rather with confusion; and
this defect in Cromwell's mind will probably be looked upon with great indulgence. Nevertheless,
people who go to war to demolish an existing government, ought to have taken thought for a
substitute; on them it is incumbent to have a political creed, and a constitution to set up.
At this very moment when the question is no less, than whether the king should be put to death,
and monarchy rooted out of the land--ay, and the Parliament coerced, in order to effect these
objects--our Puritan general reasons--like a Puritan and nothing better.

The following letter was addressed to Colonel Hammond, then governor of the Isle of Wight.
The colonel had been distressed by his scruples at the extreme course the army was disposed
to take, and had solicited this appointment to the Isle of Wight as a retreat from the scene
of faction and violence. But it was precisely in this quiet little island that the king took
refuge; his perplexities, therefore, were increased and not diminished. Cromwell writes to
him to remove his scruples, and makes a characteristic allusion to this circumstance--improves
it, as we should say.

We must apprise the reader, however, that it would be dangerous to form any opinion upon the
religious sincerity or insincerity of Cromwell, upon extracts from his letters and speeches,
or even upon any single letter or speech. From the incongruity we feel between the solemnity
of the subject of religion, and the manner and occasion in which it is introduced, and from
the use of certain expressions long since consecrated to ridicule, it is impossible for a modern
reader, on falling upon some isolated passages, not to exclaim, that this is cant and hypocrisy!
But when the whole series, or the greater part of it, is read--when the same strain of thought
and feeling, in season and out of season, is constantly observed--it is equally impossible
not to feel persuaded that these letters and speeches body forth the genuine character of the
man, and that the writer was verily a solemn and most serious person, in whom religious zeal
was the last quality which needed reinforcement.

     "DEAR ROBIN,--No man rejoiceth more to see a line from thee
     than myself. I know thou hast long been under trial. Thou shalt
     be no loser by it. All things must work for the best.

     "Thou desirest to hear of my experiences. I can tell thee, I am
     such a one as thou did formerly know, having a body of sin and
     death; but I thank God, through Jesus Christ our Lord, there is
     no condemnation though much infirmity; and I wait for the
     redemption. And in this poor condition I obtain mercy, and
     sweet consolation through the Spirit. And find abundant cause
     every day to exalt the Lord and abase flesh--and herein I have
     some exercise.

     "As to outward dispensations, if we may so call them, we have
     not been without our share of beholding some remarkable
     providences and appearances of the Lord. His presence hath been
     amongst us, and by the light of his countenance we have
     prevailed (alludes to the battle of Preston.) We are sure the
     goodness of Him who dwelt in the bush has shined upon us; and
     we can humbly say, we know in whom we have believed; who can
     and will perfect what remaineth, and us also in doing what is
     well-pleasing in His eye-sight.

     "I find some trouble in your spirit, occasioned first not only
     by your sad and heavy burden, as you call it, but also by the
     dissatisfaction you take at the ways of some good men whom you
     love with your heart, who through the principle, that it is
     lawful for a lesser part, if in the right, to force a numerical
     majority, &c. &c.

     "To the first: call not your burden sad or heavy. If your
     Father laid it on you, He intended neither. He is the Father of
     light, from whom comes every good and perfect gift; who of His
     own will begot us.... Dear Robin, our fleshly reasonings
     ensnare us. These make us say 'heavy,' 'sad,' 'pleasant,'
     'easy.' Was there not a little of this when Robert Hammond,
     through dissatisfaction too, desired retirement from the army,
     and thought of quiet in the Isle of Wight? Did not God find him
     out there? I believe he will never forget this. And now I
     perceive he is to seek again; partly through his sad and heavy
     burden, and partly through his dissatisfaction with friends'
     actings.

     "Dear Robin, thou and I were never worthy to be door-keepers in
     this service. If thou wilt seek, seek to know the mind of God
     in all that chain of providence, whereby God brought thee
     thither, and that person (the king) to thee; how, before and
     since, God hath ordered him, and affairs concerning him; and
     then tell me, whether there be not some glorious and high
     meaning in all this, above what thou hast yet attained? And,
     laying aside thy fleshly reason, seek of the Lord to teach thee
     what that is; and He will do it. I dare be positive to say, It
     is not that the wicked should be exalted that God should so
     appear as indeed He hath done. For there is no peace to them.
     No; it is set upon the hearts of such as fear the Lord, and we
     have witness upon witness, that it shall go ill with them and
     their partakers.

     "As to thy dissatisfaction with friends' actings upon that
     supposed principle--I wonder not at that. If a man take not his
     own burden well, he shall hardly others'; especially if
     involved by so near a relation of love and Christian
     brotherhood as thou art, I shall not take upon me to satisfy;
     but I hold myself bound to lay my thoughts before so dear a
     friend. The Lord do His own will.

     "You say, 'God hath appointed authorities among the nations, to
     which active or passive obedience is to be yielded. This
     resides, in England, in the Parliament. Therefore, active or
     passive resistance,' &c. &c.

     "Authorities and powers are the ordinance of God. This or that
     species is of human institution, and limited some with larger,
     others with stricter bands, each one according to its
     constitution. But I do not therefore think that the authorities
     may do any thing, and yet such obedience be due. All agree
     that there are cases in which it is lawful to resist. If so,
     your ground fails, and so likewise the inference. Indeed, dear
     Robin, not to multiply words, the query is,--Whether ours be
     such case? This, ingenuously, is the true question.

     "To this I shall say nothing, though I could say very much; but
     only desire thee to see what thou findest in thy own heart to
     two or three plain considerations. First, Whether Salus
     populi be a sound position? Secondly, Whether, in the way in
     hand (the parliamentary treaty with the king,) really and
     before the Lord, before whom conscience has to stand, this be
     provided for--or if the whole fruit of the war is not likely to
     be frustrated, and all most like to turn to what it was, and
     worse? And this contrary to engagements, explicit covenants
     with those who ventured their lives upon those covenants and
     engagements, without whom, perhaps in equity, relaxation ought
     not to be? If so, it may be, acting will be justified
     in foro humano. But truly this kind of reasoning may be but
     fleshly, either with or against: only it is good to try what
     truth may be in them. And the Lord teach us.

     "My dear friend, let us look into providences; surely they mean
     somewhat. They hang so together; have been so constant, so
     clear, unclouded. Malice, swoln malice against God's people,
     now called 'saints,' to root out their name;--and yet they
     these poor saints getting arms and therein blessed with defence
     and more! I desire he that is for a principle of suffering
     (passive obedience) would not too much slight this. I slight
     not him who is so minded; but let us beware lest fleshly
     reasoning see more safety in making use of this principle than
     in acting! Who acts, if he resolve not through God to be
     willing to part with all? Our hearts are very deceitful, on the
     right and on the left.

     "What think you of providence disposing the hearts of so many
     of God's people this way--especially in this poor army, wherein
     the great God has vouchsafed to appear! I know not one officer
     but is on the increasing side (come over to this opinion.) ...

     "Thou mentionest somewhat as if by acting against such
     opposition as is like to be, there will be a tempting of God.
     Dear Robin, tempting of God ordinarily is either by acting
     presumptuously in carnal confidence, or in unbelief through
     diffidence: both these ways Israel tempted God in the
     wilderness, and He was grieved by them. Not the encountering of
     difficulties, therefore, makes us to tempt God; but the acting
     before and without faith. If the Lord have in any measure
     persuaded His people, as generally He hath, of the lawfulness,
     nay of the duty,--this persuasion prevailing upon the heart
     is faith; and acting thereupon is acting in faith; and the more
     the difficulties are the more the faith. And it is most sweet
     that he who is not persuaded have patience towards them that
     are, and judge not; and this will free thee from the trouble of
     others' actings, which thou sayest adds to thy grief....

     "Robin, I have done. Ask we our hearts whether we think that
     after all these dispensations, the like to which many
     generations cannot afford, should end in so corrupt reasonings
     of good men, and should so hit the designings of bad? Thinkest
     thou in thy heart that the glorious dispensations of God point
     out to this? The Lord be thy counsellor. Dear
     Robin, I rest thine,

     "OLIVER CROMWELL."

For ourselves, we cannot read this, and other letters breathing the same spirit, without being
convinced that Cromwell fully shared in those fanatical sentiments which prompted the army
to insist upon the king's death. A contemporary account, from which Mr Carlyle, some pages
before this letter occurs, has quoted largely, represents this chief of the Puritans in exactly
the same point of view. The officers of the army had made certain overtures to the king, certain
efforts at a reconciliation, which had been fruitless; and which had been, moreover, attended
with much division and contention amongst themselves. They had turned aside, it seems, from
"that path of simplicity they had been blessed in, to walk in a politic path," and were, accordingly,
afflicted, "as the wages of their backsliding hearts," with tumults, and jealousies, and divisions.
But the godly officers, says the pious record of Adjutant Allen, met at Windsor Castle! "and
there we spent one day together in prayer; inquiring into the causes of that sad dispensation.
And, on the morrow, we met again in the morning; where many spake from the Word and prayed;
and the then Lieutenant-General Cromwell did press very earnestly on all there present, to
a thorough consideration of our actions as an army, and of our ways particularly as private
Christians; to see if any iniquity could be found in them; and what it was; that, if possible,
he might find it out, and so remove the cause of such sad rebukes as were upon us, (by reason
of our iniquities, as we judged,) at that time.

Let no one suppose that, because Cromwell, and other officers of the army, had been negotiating
with the king, bidding for him, in fact, against the Parliament, and offering terms such as
it was mere infatuation upon his part not to accept, that they were, therefore, not sincere
in this their fanaticism, which now so clearly told them they should be doing the express will
of God in putting him to death. Those who have paid attention to this disease of the mind,
know well, that while nothing is more violent at one moment, nothing is more flexible at another.
Against the assaults of reason it is rock,--it is adamant; but to self-interest, or a covert
passion, it is often surprisingly ductile. The genuine fanatic is gifted with a power which
will equally uphold him, whether he walks to the right or to the left, and lets him change
his course as often as he will. He has a logic that is always triumphant--which proves him
always in the right--whether he would advance or recede. Success--it is God's own sanction;
failure--it is what you please,--God's disapproval if you would retreat--a trial only of your
faith, if you have the heart to advance. In the present case, our pious army, having found
it impossible to treat with the king, has but to spend "its day in prayer," and its fierce
zeal resumes its former channel with greater violence than ever. It has been led astray, it
finds, by carnal reasonings and sinful weakness; and, rushing back to its old "path of simplicity,"
it raises the cry of death!

This account, which Adjutent Allan gives of diseased piety and perilous fanaticism, Mr Carlyle
accompanies with interjections of applause, and cheers of encouragement. To him, also, it seems
quite fit that the army should return to its path of "simplicity." The King must die.

How little, up to the very last, did that unfortunate monarch know of the terrible spirit of
those enemies into whose hands he had fallen! He saw himself necessary to the tranquillisation
and stable government of a nation still imbued with the love of monarchy, he therefore thought
himself and the monarchy were safe; he knew not that he was contending with men who, when they
rose to their high "heroic" mood, had a supreme contempt for all considerations touching mere
human polity,--the mere peace and government of mankind. He trusted much to the sacredness
of royalty, the majesty of the purple, the divinity of a King; he was delivered over to the
power of enemies, whose glory it was to tread down the glories of the world; who, so far from
finding any sacredness in his royalty, had classed him amongst all the wicked kings of the
Old Testament, sentenced to be exterminated with the idolatry they fostered, and with whom
the very audacity and fearful temerity of the deed, (if this at all affected them,) would add
only to its merit. Unfortunate monarch! The tide of sympathy runs now against him, but we confess
still to retain our compassion for the fallen prince,--our compassion, very little, it may
be, of admiration. We see him contending against fearful odds, keeping up a high and kingly
spirit to the last. So far he braved it nobly, and played a desperate game, if not wisely,
yet with unshaken nerves. His character, without a doubt, bears, as Lingard writes, "the taint
of duplicity." But it was a duplicity which, in his father's court, would have been chuckled
over as good practice of state-craft. We are strangely fashioned--kings, and all of us--made
up of fragments of virtue, ill-assorted parcels of morality. Charles, when he had given his
parole of honour, would not escape from his imprisonment in the Isle of Wight, though the means
of escape were offered to him. But the wily and diplomatic monarch thought he was entitling
himself to the praise of all men of spirit and intelligence, when, by fallacious promises and
protestations, he strove to play off one party of his enemies against the other. He was practising,
to the best of his ability, all the traditionary maxims and manoeuvres of a subtle policy.
Nor was it ability that he wanted. On an Italian soil, these Italian arts might have availed
him. But what were the sleights and contrivances of a traditionary state-craft against the
rude storm of tumultuous passions which had been conjured up around him! He was fencing with
the whirlwind. Perhaps no prince, trained in a court, can be a match for the rude adversaries
which revolutionary times raise up against him. What chance is there that he should ever learn
the nature of his new and terrible enemy? You have taught him, according to all the laws of
woodcraft, to chase the stag and the fox, and now you let loose upon him the wild beast of
the forest! How was Charles to learn what manner of being was a Puritan, and how it struck
its prey? His courtiers would have taught him to despise and ridicule--his bishops to look
askance with solemn aversion,--but who was there to teach him to fear this Puritan?--to teach
him that he must forthwith conciliate, if he could not crush?

It is worth while to continue the narrative a little further. We adopt Mr Carlyle's words.
"At London, matters are coming rapidly to a crisis. The resumed debate, 'shall the army remonstrance
be taken into consideration?' does not come out affirmative; on the contrary, on Thursday the
31st, it comes out negative, by a majority of ninety. 'No, we will not take it into consideration.'
'No?' The army at Windsor thereupon spends again 'a day in prayer.' The army at Windsor has
decided on the morrow, that it will march to London; marches, arrives accordingly, on Saturday,
December 2d; quarters itself in Whitehall, in St James's, 'and other great vacant houses in
the skirts of the city and villages about, no offence being given any where.' In the drama
of modern history, one knows not any graver, more note-worthy scene; earnest as very death
and judgment. They have decided to have justice, these men; to see God's justice done, and
his judgments executed on this earth."

Adjutant Allen and Mr Carlyle are both of the same mind,--take the same views of public matters,
political and religious. But the Adjutant himself would open great eyes at the sentence which
next follows:--

"The abysses where the thunders and splendours are bred--the reader sees them again laid bare
and black. Madness lying close to the wisdom which is brightest and highest;--and owls and
godless men who hate the lightning and the light, and love the mephitic dusk and darkness,
are no judges of the actions of heroes! Shedders of blood? Yes, blood is occasionally shed.
The healing surgeon, the sacrificial priest, the august judge, pronouncer of God's oracles
to man, these and the atrocious murderer are alike shedders of blood; and it is an owl's eye,
that, except for the dresses they wear, discerns no difference in these! Let us leave the owl
to his hootings; let us get on with our chronology and swift course of events."

By forcibly expelling more than one hundred of the members of Parliament, and thus converting
a minority into a majority, these "sacrificial priests" contrived to accomplish their very
righteous act. In the face of raving such as this, it would be absurd to enter seriously upon
any consideration, moral or political, touching the King's death. We would rather that Mr Carlyle
occupied the field alone. We saw him just now dealing with his "abysses," and his "lightning;"
we quote his concluding comment on this event, which will present a specimen of his more facetious
style of eloquence, and the singular taste he is capable of displaying:--

"This action of the English regicides did in effect strike a damp like death through the heart
of flunkeyism universally in this world. Whereof flunkeyism, cant, cloth-worship, or whatever
ugly name it have, has gone about incurably sick ever since; and is now at length, in these
generations, very rapidly dying. The like of which action will not be needed for a thousand
years again. Needed, alas! not till a new genuine hero-worship has arisen, has perfected itself;
and had time to degenerate into a flunkeyism and cloth-worship again! which I take to be a
very long date indeed.

"Thus ends the second civil war: in regicide, in a Commonwealth, and keepers of the liberties
of England: In punishment of delinquents, in abolition of cobwebs;--if it be possible, in a
government of Heroism and veracity; at lowest of anti-flunkeyism, anti-cant, and the endeavour
after heroism and veracity."

Flunkeyism! Such is the title which our many-sided man thinks fit to bestow on the loyalty
of England! But serious indignation would be out of place. A buffoon expression has this advantage,
it is unanswerable. Yet will we venture to say, that it is a losing game this which you are
playing, Mr Carlyle, this defiance of all common sense and all good taste. There is a respectability
other than that which, in the unwearying love of one poor jest, you delight to call "gig respectability,"
a respectability based on intelligence and not on "Long-Acre springs," whose disesteem it cannot
be wise to provoke, nor very pleasant to endure.

The Commonwealth is proclaimed by sound of trumpet. The king and the lords are cashiered and
dismissed. A house of representatives and a council of state form the constitution of England.
Cromwell is one of the council. But for the present the war in Ireland carries him away from
the scene of politics.

On this Irish campaign, Mr Carlyle breaks out, as may be supposed, in a strain of exultation.
He always warms at blood and battle. His piety, or his poetry--not admirable whichever it may
be--glows here to a red heat. We are as little disposed perhaps as himself, to stand "shrieking
out" over the military severities of this campaign, but if we could bring ourselves to believe
that Mr Carlyle is really serious in what he writes, we should say that the most impracticable
maudlin of peace societies, or "Rousseau-sentimentalism," were wisdom itself compared to his
own outrageous and fanatical strain. If the apologist of Cromwell will be content to rest his
case on the plain ground open to all generals and captains on whom has devolved the task of
subjecting a rebellious and insurrectionary country--on the plain ground that the object is
to be more speedily effected, and with less bloodshed and misery to the inhabitants, by carrying
on the war at the commencement with the utmost severity, (thus breaking down at once the spirit
of insurrection,) than by prolonging the contest through an exercise of leniency and forbearance--we
are not aware that any decisive answer can be given to him. It is an awful piece of surgery
to contemplate--one may be excused, if one shudders both at it and the operator--but, nevertheless,
it may have been the wisest course to pursue. As a general rule, every one will admit that--if
war there must be--it is better that it should be short and violent, than long and indecisive;
for there is nothing so mischievous, so destructive of the industry and moral character of
a people, as a war which, so to speak, domesticates itself amongst them. Put aside "the saint"
entirely,--let us see only the soldier,--and Cromwell's campaign in Ireland may present nothing
more terrible than what elsewhere, and in the campaigns of other generals, we are accustomed
to regard as the necessary evils of war; nothing more than what a Turenne, a Condé, or a Frederic
of Prussia, might have applauded or practised. But this is precisely the last thing our editor
would be disposed to do; any so common-place, and commonsense view of the matter, would have
been utterly distasteful: he does bring the saint very prominently upon the field, and we are
to recognise in Cromwell--"an armed soldier, terrible as Death, relentless as Doom; doing God's
judgments on the enemies of God!"

"It is a phenomenon," he continues, "not of joyful nature; no, but of awful, to be looked at
with pious terror and awe. Not a phenomenon which you are taught to recognise with bright smiles,
and fall in love with at sight:--thou, art thou worthy to love such a thing; worthy to do other
than hate it, and shriek over it? Darest thou wed the Heaven's lightning, then; and say to
it, Godlike One? Is thy own life beautiful and terrible to thee; steeped in the eternal depths,
in the eternal plendours?"--(Vol. ii. p. 53.)

In the despatch which Cromwell addresses to the Speaker, Lenthall, after the storm of Tredah,
otherwise Drogheda, we observe that the Puritan is as strong as ever, but that the Soldier
and the great Captain speak out with increased boldness. Our sectarian farmer of St Ives, who
brooded, by the dark waters of the Ouse, over the wickedness of surpliced prelacy, whose unemployed
spirit sank at times into hypochondria, and was afflicted with "strange fancies about the town-cross,"
has been moving for some time in the very busiest scene the world could furnish him, and has
become the great general of his age. The spirit of the "big wars" has entered, and grown up
side by side with his Puritanism. The ardour of the battle fully possesses him; he is the conqueror
always in the tremendous charge he makes at the head of his Ironsides; and he lets appear,
notwithstanding his self-denying style, a consciousness and a triumph in his own skill as a
tactician. He is still the genuine Puritan; but the arduous life, the administrative duties
of a soldier and a general, have also been busy in modifying his character, and calling forth
and exercising that self-confidence, which he will by and by recognise as "faith" and the leading
of Providence, when he assumes the place of dictator of his country.

From one passage in this despatch it would appear that his severity at the storm of Drogheda
was not wholly the result of predetermined policy, but rose, in part, from the natural passion
which the sword, and the desperate struggle for life, call forth.

"Divers of the enemy retreated into the Mill-Mount, a place very strong and of difficult access.
I burn, I burn.'"

In the same despatch there is rather a noticeable passage, which illustrates the manner in
which the Puritan general was accustomed to regard the Roman Catholics and their worship. There
may be some who have been so far deceived by the frequent use of the terms "religious toleration"
in conjunction with the name of Cromwell, as to attribute to him a portion of that liberal
spirit which is the greatest boast of cultivated minds in the present century. His religious
toleration extended only to the small circle of sects whose Christian doctrine, whose preaching,
and whose forms of worship were almost identical; it was just the same toleration that a Baptist
dissenter of our day may be supposed to extend towards an Independent dissenter, or a member
of the Countess of Huntingdon's connexion. The Independents differed from the Presbyterians
in no one definite article of creed, with this exception--that they set no value upon ordination,
and violently objected to the restraining any good man from public preaching, or any of the
ministrations of a pastor, because he wanted this authorisation of a visible church. For this
point of "religious freedom" (an expression which in their mouths has little other than this
narrow signification) they had to contend with the Presbyterians. The sect which has to resist
oppression, or the restraints of power, uses, of course, the language of toleration. The Independents
used it in their controversy with the Presbyterians, just as the latter had employed it in
their controversy with Episcopacy. But Independents and Presbyterians were alike intolerant
of the Episcopalian or the Roman Catholic. All sects of that age preached toleration when a
powerful adversary was to be deprecated--preached it then, and then only. The Independents
coming last upon the field, preached it last; but they have no title beyond others to the spirit
of toleration. Cromwell put down the mass as he would put down a rebellion--as openly, as decidedly,
as rigorously.

"It is remarkable," continued the despatch, "that these people, at the first, set up the mass
in some places of the town that had been monasteries; but afterwards grew so insolent, that,
the last Lord's day before the storm, the Protestants were thrust out of the great church called
St Peter's, and they had public mass there; and in this very place near 1000 of them (the Catholics--a
clear judgment) were put to the sword, fleeing thither for safety. I believe all their friars
were knocked on the head promiscuously but two; the one of which was Father Peter Taaff, brother
to the Lord Taaff, whom the soldiers took the next day and made an end of. The other was taken
in the Round Tower, under the repute, (the disguise) of a lieutenant, and when he understood
that the officers in that tower had no quarter, he confessed he was a friar; but that did not
save him."

Ireland was no sooner subjected by this unflinching and terrific severity, than the presence
of the great general of the Commonwealth was needed in Scotland. The Scots had no predilection
for a republic, no desire whatever for it; they were bent solely on their covenant, their covenant
and a Stuart king. It was a combination very difficult to achieve. Nevertheless they took their
oath to both, and marched into England to establish them both over the United Kingdom. Here
was sufficient enthusiasm at all events; sufficient, and of the proper kind, one would think,
to earn the sympathies of our editor. And he does look upon the Scots at this time as an "heroic
nation." But, unfortunately, it is precisely the heroic nation that his own great hero is about
to combat and subdue. He is compelled, therefore, upon his part, as the faithful bard and minstrel
of his chosen champion, to give them up--them, and their covenant, and Stuart king--to merciless
sarcasm. Indeed, he tells us, that the great, the sole fault of the Scots, was precisely this--that
they did not produce a Cromwell. "With Oliver born Scotch," he says or sings, "one sees not
but the whole world might have become Puritan!"

However, he launches his Puritan hero against the godly and heroic nation with full sound of
trumpet, not unmixed with a certain vague and solemn voice of prophecy.

"In such spirit goes Oliver to the wars--a god-intoxicated man, as Novalis elsewhere phrases
it. I have asked myself, if any where in modern European history, or even in ancient Asiatic,
there was found a man practising this mean world's affairs with a heart more filled by the
idea of the Highest? Bathed in the eternal splendours--it is so he walks our dim earth: this
man is one of few. He is projected with a terrible force out of the Eternities, and in the
Times and their arenas there is nothing that can withstand him. It is great; to us it is tragic;
a thing that should strike us dumb! My brave one, thy noble prophecy is divine; older than
Hebrew David; old as the origin of man; and shall, though in wider ways than those supposed,
be fulfilled."--(P. 172.)

We feel no disposition to follow Cromwell to the Scottish wars, though "bathed in the eternal
splendours." We hardly know of any thing in history to our taste more odious than this war
between the Scottish Covenanter and the English Puritan; the one praying clamorously for victory
against "a blaspheming general and a sectarian army;" the other animating his battle with a
psalm, and charging with a "Lord, arise! and let thy enemies be scattered," or some such exclamation.
Both generals, in the intervals of actual war, sermonise each other, and with much the same
spirit that they fight. Their diplomacy is a tangled preachment, and texts are their war-cries.
Meanwhile, both are fighting for the gospel of Christ! only one will have it with, the other
without the covenant! Such "eternal splendours" are not inviting to us. We will step on at
once to the battle of Worcester, which concluded both the Scottish war, and all hopes for the
present of the royalist party.

This last of his battles and his victories dismisses the great Puritan from the wars. It is
a striking despatch he writes from the field of Worcester. He is still the unmitigated Puritan;
he still preaches to Speaker Lenthall, but he preaches somewhat more dogmatically. There is
an air of authority in the sermon. We all know that godly exhortation may be made to express
almost every shade of human passion; as what son and what wife has not felt who has lived under
the dominion and discourse of one of these "rulers in Israel." The Parliament felt, no doubt,
the difference between the sermons of their general and those of their chaplain.

Cromwell and the army return to London. It is now that the Commonwealth is to be really put
upon its trial. Hitherto the army, that had made and could unmake it, had been occupied first
in Ireland, then in Scotland; and the minds of people at home had been equally occupied in
watching its achievements. The Commonwealth has lived upon the expectations of men. It has
been itself an expectation. It is now to be perfected, its organisation to be completed, its
authority established.

But Cromwell was not a Washington. Not only did he want that serene and steady virtue which
counselled the champion of American independence to retire into the ranks of the constitution--commander
in the field, private soldier in the city--not only did he fail in this civic virtue, and found
it hard to resign the sway and authority he had so long exercised; but the inestimable advantages
of a constitutional government his mind had not been cultivated to appreciate. His thoughts
had hitherto taken another direction. His speculative habits theology had moulded; his active
habits had been formed in the camp. He felt that he could administer the government better
than any of the men around him: we will give him credit, too, for the full intention to administer
it conscientiously, and for the good of the nation; but for those enlarged views of the more
enlightened patriot, who is solicitous to provide not alone for the present necessities, but
for the future long life of a people--he had them not. He grew afterwards into the statesman,
as he had grown into the soldier; but at this time the Puritan general had very little respect
for human institutions.

We are far from asserting, that even with the assistance of Cromwell a republic could have
been established in England. But he lent no helping hand; his great abilities, his fervent
zeal, were never employed in this service. He kept aloof--aloof with the army. He gathered
himself to his full height, standing amidst the ruins of the civil war: all men might see that
he alone kept his footing there. When the unhappy Parliament, struggling with its cruel embarrassments,
not knowing how to dissolve itself with safety, had brought down on it the impatience, the
distrust, the contempt of men--when he had allowed its members to reap the full harvest of
a people's jealousies and suspicions--when at length they were on the point of extricating
themselves by a bill determining the mode of electing a successor--then he interfered, and
dissolved them!

A question may be raised, how far Cromwell had the power, if such had been his wish, to take
over the army to the side of the Parliament, to lead it into due allegiance to the Commonwealth.
The officers of the army and the members of the Parliament formed the two rival powers in the
kingdom. Cromwell, it may be said, could not have united them, could only make his choice between
them. It would have been only a fraction of the army that he could have carried over with him.
The division between the council of officers and the Parliament was too wide, the alienation
too confirmed and inveterate, to have been healed by one man, though it was the Lord General
himself. Thus, it may be said that Cromwell, in the part he acted against the Long Parliament,
was thrust forward by a revolutionary movement, which, according to the law of such movements,
must either have carried him forward in the van, or left him deserted or down-trodden in the rear.

This would be no flattering excuse. But whatever truth there may be in this view of the case,
Cromwell never manifested any intention or any desire to quit the cause of the army for that
of the Parliament. He was heart and soul with the army; it was there his power lay; it was
there he found the spirits he most sympathised with. He walked at the head of the army here
as in the war. It was alone that he entered the House of Parliament--alone "in his gray stockings
and black coat," with no staff of officers about him, no military parade, only a few of his
Ironsides in the lobby. Though aware he should have the support of his officers, there is no
proof that he had consulted them. The daring deed was his. And it is one of the most daring
deeds on record. The execution of the King--in that day when kings were something more in the
imagination of men than they are now--was indeed an audacious act. But it was shared with others.
This dissolution of the Parliament, and assumption of the dictatorship--this facing alone all
his old compeers, met in due legislative dignity, and bidding them one and all depart--strikes
us as the bolder deed.

The scene has been often described, but nowhere so well, or so fully, as by Mr Carlyle. We
cannot resist the pleasure of quoting his spirited account of this notable transaction.

     "The Parliament sitting as usual, and being in debate upon the
     bill, which it was thought would have been passed that day,
     'the Lord General Cromwell came into the House, clad in plain
     black clothes and gray worsted stockings, and sat down, as he
     used to do, in an ordinary place.' For some time he listens to
     this interesting debate on the bill, beckoning once to
     Harrison, who came over to him, and answered dubitatingly.
     Whereupon the Lord General sat still for about a quarter of an
     hour longer. But now the question being to be put, That this
     bill do now pass, he beckons again to Harrison, says, 'This is
     the time; I must do it!' and so 'rose up, put off his hat, and
     spake. At the first, and for a good while, he spake to the
     commendation of the Parliament, for their pains and care of the
     public good; but afterwards he changed his style, told them of
     their injustice, delays of justice, self-interest, and other
     faults,' rising higher and higher into a very aggravated style
     indeed. An honourable member, Sir Peter Wentworth by name, not
     known to my readers, and by me better known than trusted, rises
     to order, as we phrase it; says, 'It is a strange language
     this; unusual within the walls of Parliament this! And from a
     trusted servant, too; and one whom we have so highly honoured;
     and one--' Come, come,' exclaims my Lord General, in a very
     high key, 'we have had enough of this'--and in fact my Lord
     General, now blazing all up into clear conflagration, exclaims,
     'I will put an end to your prating,' and steps forth into the
     floor of the House, and 'clapping on his hat,' and occasionally
     'stamping the floor with his feet,' begins a discourse which no
     man can report! He says--Heavens! he is heard saying: 'It is
     not fit that you should sit here any longer!' You have sat too
     long here for any good you have been doing lately, 'You shall
     now give place to better men! Call them in!' adds he, briefly,
     to Harrison, in way of command; and some 'twenty or thirty'
     grim musketeers enter, with bullets in their snaphances; grimly
     prompt for orders; and stand in some attitude of carry arms
     there. Veteran men: men of might and men of war, their faces
     are as the faces of lions, and their feet are swift as the roes
     upon the mountains; not beautiful to honourable gentlemen at
     this moment!

     "'You call yourselves a Parliament,' continues my Lord General,
     in clear blaze of conflagration. 'You are no Parliament! Some
     of you are drunkards,' and his eye flashes on poor Mr Chalmer,
     an official man of some value, addicted to the bottle; 'some of
     you are'--and he glares into Henry Martin and the poor Sir
     Peter, who rose to order, lewd livers both--'living in open
     contempt of God's, commandments. Following your own greedy
     appetites, and the devil's commandments.

     "The House is of course all on its feet--uncertain, almost,
     whether not on its head: such a scene as was never seen before
     in any House of Commons. History reports with a shudder that my
     Lord General, lifting the sacred mace itself, said, 'What shall
     we do with this bauble? Take it away!'--and gave it to a
     musketeer. And now--'Fetch him down!' says he to Harrison,
     flashing on the Speaker. Speaker Lenthall, more an ancient
     Roman than any thing else, declares, He will not come till
     forced. 'Sir,' said Harrison, 'I will lend you a hand;' on
     which Speaker Lenthall came down, and gloomily vanished. They
     all vanished; flooding gloomily, clamorously out, to their
     ulterior businesses, and respective places of abode: the Long
     Parliament is dissolved! 'It's you that have forced me to
     this,' exclaims my Lord General, 'I have sought the Lord night
     and day, that He would rather slay me than put me upon the
     doing of this work.' 'At their going out, some say the Lord
     General said to young Sir Harry Vane, calling him by his name,
     That he might have prevented this; but that he was a juggler,
     and had not common honesty.' 'O Sir Harry Vane,' thou, with thy
     subtle casuistries and abstruse hair-splittings, thou art other
     than a good one, I think! 'The Lord deliver me from thee, Sir
     Harry Vane!' 'All being gone out, the door of the House was
     locked, and the key, with the mace, as I heard, was carried
     away by Colonel Otley,' and it is all over, and the unspeakable
     catastrophe has come, and remains."--(Vol. ii. p. 361.)

The usurpation of Cromwell is, we believe, generally considered as the most fortunate event
which, under the peculiar circumstances of the country, could have occurred. The people, it
is said; were not prepared for a republic. The attempt, therefore, to establish one, would
have been attended by incessant tumults; its short and precarious existence would have been
supported by the scaffold and the prison. It would have terminated indeed, as did the Protectorate,
in a Restoration, but the interval between the death of Charles I. and the accession of his
son, would have been passed in a very different manner. Under the Protectorate the country
rallied its strength, put forth its naval power, obtained peace at home, and respect abroad.
Under a republic, it would have probably spent its force, and demoralised itself, in intestine
strife and by a succession of revolutionary movements.

But if this view be quite correct, it will not justify Cromwell. It is one thing to be satisfied
with the course of events, quite another with the conduct of the several agents in them. Cromwell,
in the position in which he stood, as an honest man and a patriot, should have done his best
for the establishment of the Commonwealth; and this he did not. We are far, as we have said,
from venturing to give a decisive opinion on the probability (with the united efforts of the
victorious general and the Parliament) of forming a republic. But we are not disposed to think
that the cause was hopeless. Had the Parliament been allowed to recruit its numbers without
dissolving itself--the measure which it constantly desired, and which Cromwell would not hear
of, though, without a doubt, it was the very line of conduct which his own practical sagacity
would have led him to, if his heart had been in the business--the minds of men would have had
time to settle and reflect, and a mode of government, which had already existed for some years,
might have been adopted by the general consent.

We look upon the Restoration very calmly, very satisfactorily, for whom a second revolution
has placed another dynasty upon the throne, governing upon principles quite different from
those which were rooted in the Stuarts. We see the Restoration, with the Revolution of 1688
at its back, and almost consider them as one event. But a most loyal and contented subject
of Queen Victoria, would have been a Commonwealthsman in those days. How could it then have
been foreseen that all the power, and privilege, and splendour of royalty, should exist only
to protect the law, to secure the equal rights of all--that monarchy, retaining a traditionary
awe and majesty derived from remote times, should remain amongst us to supply to a representative
government that powerful, constant, and impartial executive which, from the mere elements of
a republic, it is so difficult to extract? Who could have imagined that a popular legislature,
and the supremacy of the law, could have been so fortunately combined and secured under the
shadow of the monarchy? Enlightened minds at that time could not have looked calmly towards
a Restoration; they probably thought, or would have been led to think, that, in the position
they then were, it was better to take the constitution of Holland, than the government of France,
for their model.

But the multitude--with what enthusiasm they welcomed the restoration of the Stuarts! Very
true. But the Protectorate was no antagonist to monarchy. Republican pride was never called
forth to contend in the public mind against the feeling of loyalty, and an attachment to kings.
The Protectorate was itself a monarchy without its splendour, or the prestige of hereditary
greatness. It was a monarchy under the Geneva gown. Was it likely that the populace would accept
of this in lieu of the crowned and jewelled royalty which was wont to fill its imagination?

However, the experiment--fortunately for us, as the result has turned out--was never destined
to be made. Cromwell dissolved the Long Parliament. He now stood alone, he and the army, the
sole power in the state. His first measure, that of sending a summons in his own name, to persons
of his own choice, and thus, without any popular election whatever, assembling what is called
the Little Parliament, or Barebones Parliament, shows a singular audacity, and proves how little
trammelled he was himself by traditionary or constitutional maxims. He who would not allow
the Long Parliament to recruit its numbers, and thus escape the perils of a free election of
an altogether new assembly, extricates himself from the same embarrassment by electing the
whole Parliament himself. Some historians have represented this measure as having for its very
object to create additional confusion, and render himself, and his own dictatorial power, more
necessary to the state. It has not appeared to us in this light. We see in it a bold but rude
assay at government. In this off-hand manner of constituting a Parliament, we detect the mingled
daring of the Puritan and the Soldier. In neither of these characters was he likely to have
much respect for legal maxims, or rules of merely human contrivance. Cromwell was educating
himself for the Statesman: at this juncture it is the Puritan General that we have before us.

The Little Parliament having blundered on till it had got itself entangled in the Mosaic dispensation,
resigned its power into the hands of him who had bestowed it. Thereupon a new Instrument of
Government is framed, with the advice of the council of officers, appointing Cromwell Protector,
and providing for the election of a Parliament.

This Parliament being elected, falls, of course, on the discussion of this very Instrument
of government. Henceforth Cromwell's great difficulty is the management of his Parliaments.
The speeches he delivered to them at various times, and which occupy the third volume of the
work before us, are of high historical interest. They are in every respect superior to his
letters. Neither will their perusal be found to be of that arduous and painful nature which,
from the reputation they have had, most persons will be disposed to expect. The sermon may
weary, but the speech is always fraught with meaning; and the mixture of sermon and speech
together, portray the man with singular distinctness. We see the Puritan divine, the Puritan
soldier, becoming the Puritan statesman. His originally powerful mind is excited to fresh exertion
by his onerous and exalted position. But he is still constant to himself. Very interesting
is the exhibition presented to us of this powerful intellect, breaking out in flashes of strong
sense, and relapsing again into the puerilities of the sect. But as it falls upon the strong
sense to act, and on the puerilities only to preach, the man comes out, upon the whole, as
a great and able governor.

The reputation which Oliver's speeches have borne, as being involved, spiritless, tortuous,
and even purposely confused, has resulted, we think, from this--that an opinion of the whole
has been formed from an examination of a few, and chiefly of those which were delivered on
the occasion of his refusing the offered title of king. His conduct on this occasion, it would
be necessary for an historian particularly to investigate, and in the discharge of this duty
he would have to peruse a series of discourses undoubtedly of a very bewildering character.
They are the only speeches of Cromwell of which it can be said that their meaning is not clearly,
and even forcibly expressed. And in this case it is quite evident, that he had no distinct
meaning to express; he had no definite answer to give the Parliament who were petitioning him
to take the title of king. He was anxious to gain time--he was talking against time--an art
which we moderns only have thoroughly mastered. How could Cromwell, who was no great rhetorician,
be otherwise than palpably confused, and dubious and intricate? Nothing can be clearer than
that he himself leant towards the opinion of the Parliament, that it would be good policy to
adopt the royal title. It was so connected with the old attachments and associations of Englishmen,
it had so long given force to the language of the law, its claims were so much better known,
its prerogatives so much better understood than those of the new title of Protector, that the
resumption of it must have appeared very advisable. But the army had been all along fighting
against the King. Whilst to the lawyer and the citizen the title was still the most honourable
and ever to be venerated, to the soldier of the Commonwealth it had become a term of reproach,
of execration, of unsparing hostility. Oliver Cromwell might well hesitate before assuming
a title which might forfeit for him the allegiance of a great portion of the army. He deferred
his answer, to have an opportunity for estimating the nature and amount of the resistance he
might expect from that quarter; and he came to the conclusion, that the risk of unsettling
the affections of the army was not to be incurred for either any personal gratification to
himself (which we take to have not weighed much with him) in assuming the title of king, or
for the advantages which might accrue from it in the ultimate settlement of the nation. His
addresses, therefore, to the Parliament on this occasion not being definite answers to the
Parliament, nor intended to be such, but mere postponements of his answer, were necessarily
distinguished by indecision, uncertainty, and all sorts of obscurities. But, these excepted,
his speeches, however deficient in what pertains to the art of composition, in terseness, or
method, or elegance of phrase, are never wanting in the great essentials--the expression of
his meaning in a very earnest and forcible manner. The mixture of sermon and speech, we allow,
is not inviting; but the sermon is just as clear, perhaps, as any which the chaplain of the
House would have preached to them, and it must be remembered, that to explain his meaning,
his political sentiments, the sermon was as necessary as the speech.

By the new instrument of government, the Protector, with his council, was authorised, in the
interval before the meeting of Parliament, to issue such ordinances as might be deemed necessary.
This interval our Puritan governor very consistently employed, first of all, in establishing
a gospel ministry throughout the nation. Thirty-eight chosen men, "the acknowledged flower
of English Puritanism," were nominated a Supreme Commission, for the trial of public preachers.
Any person holding a church-living, or pretending to the tithes or clergy-dues, was to be tried
and approved of by these men. "A very republican arrangement," says Mr Carlyle, "such as could
be made on the sudden, but was found in practice to work well."

This and other ordinances having been issued, his first Parliament meets. It cannot be said
that our Puritan Protector does not rise to the full level of his position. One might describe
him as something of a propagandist, disposed to teach his doctrine of the rights of Christian
men to the world at large. It is thus he opens his address:--"GENTLEMEN, You are met here on
the greatest occasion that, I believe, England ever saw; having upon your shoulders the interests
of three great nations, with the territories belonging to them: and truly I believe I may say
it without any hyperbole, you have upon your shoulders the interest of all the Christian people
in the world. And the expectation is, that I should let you know, as far as I have cognisance
of it, the occasion of your assembling together at this time."

But this Parliament fell upon the discussion, as we have said, of the very instrument of government
under which they had been called together. Mr Carlyle is as impatient as was Oliver himself
at this proceeding of the "Talking apparatus." But how could it be otherwise? Every thing that
had taken place since the dissolution of the Long Parliament was done by mere arbitrary authority.
The present Parliament, however called together, must consider itself the only legitimate,
the only constitutional power: it must look into this instrument of government. But if it was
impossible not to commence the discussion, it was equally impossible ever to conclude it. We
all know to what length a debate will run upon a constitutional question; and here there was
not one such question, but a whole constitution to be discussed. In vain they debated "from
eight in the morning to eight at night, with an hour for refreshment about noon:" there was
no probability of their ever coming to a conclusion.

This would never do. Oliver shuts up the Parliament-house, stations his musketeers at the door,
calls the members to him, presents them with a parchment, "a little thing," to sign, acknowledging
his authority, and tells them he will open the door of the House to such only as shall put
their names to it. We will quote some parts of the speech he made to them on this occasion,
and our readers shall judge whether such a speech, delivered by the living man Cromwell, was
likely to fail in effect, whether it was deficient in meaning or in energy. We shall omit the
parenthetical comments of the editor, because, however these may amuse and relieve the reader
who is making his way through the whole work, and who becomes familiarised with their style,
they would only confuse and distract the attention in a brief extract. The single words or
phrases which he has introduced, merely to make the sense clear, are retained whenever they
are really necessary for this purpose, and without the inverted commas by which they are properly
distinguished in the text. We will premise, that the protestations which Cromwell here makes,
that he did not seek the government, but was earnestly petitioned to undertake it, may well,
in part, be true. When he had once dissolved the Long Parliament, it was no longer a matter
of choice for himself or others whether he would take the reins of government. To whom could
he commit them? From that time, the government rested upon his shoulders. If he had manifested
a wish to withdraw from the burden he had thus brought down upon himself, there is no doubt
but that he would have been earnestly petitioned to remain at his post. The greatest enemy
of Cromwell, if he had been a lover of his country, would have joined in such a petition; would
have besought him to remain at the helm, now he had thrown all other steersmen overboard. No;
he must not quit it now. He is there for the rest of his life, to do battle with the waves,
and navigate amongst rocks and quicksands as best he may.

Let us hear his own statement and defence of the manner in which he became advanced and "captive"
to his high and perilous place.

     "GENTLEMEN,--It is not long since I met you in this place, upon
     an occasion which gave me much more content and comfort than
     this doth. That which I have now to say to you will need no
     preamble to let me into my discourse; for the occasion of this
     meeting is plain enough. I could have wished, with all my
     heart, there had been no cause for it.

     "At our former meeting I did acquaint you what was the first
     rise of this government which hath called you hither, and by
     the authority of which you have come hither. Among other things
     which I then told you of, I said you were a Free Parliament;
     and so you are, whilst you own the government and authority
     which called you hither. But certainly that word (Free
     Parliament) implied a reciprocity, or it implied nothing at
     all. Indeed, there was a reciprocity implied and expressed; and
     I think your actions and carriages ought to be suitable. But I
     see it will be necessary for me now a little to magnify my
     office, which I have not been apt to do. I have been of this
     mind, I have been always of this mind, since I first entered
     upon my office. If God will not bear it up, let it sink!--but
     if a duty be incumbent upon me, to bear my testimony to it,
     (which in modesty I have hitherto forborne,) I am, in some
     measure, necessitated thereunto: and therefore that will be the
     prologue to my discourse.

     "I called not myself to this place. I say again, I called not
     myself to this place! Of that God is witness: and I have many
     witnesses who, I do believe, could lay down their lives bearing
     witness to the truth of that, namely, that I called not myself
     to this place! And, being in it, I bear not witness to myself
     or my office; but God and the people of these nations have also
     borne testimony to it. If my calling be from God, and my
     testimony from the people, God and the people shall take it
     from me, else I will not part with it! I should be false to
     the trust that God hath placed in me, and to the interest of
     the people of these nations if I did.

     "I was by birth a gentleman; living neither in any considerable
     height, nor yet in obscurity. I have been called to several
     employments in the nation--to serve in Parliament and others;
     and, not to be over-tedious, I did endeavour to discharge the
     duty of an honest man, in those services, to God and his
     people's interest, and to the Commonwealth; having, when time
     was, a competent acceptation in the hearts of men, and some
     evidences thereof. I resolve not to recite the times, and
     occasions, and opportunities, which have been appointed me by
     God to serve him in; nor the presence and blessing of God,
     therein bearing testimony to me.

     "Having had some occasion to see, together with my brethren and
     countrymen, a happy period put to our sharp wars and contests
     with the then common enemy, I hoped, in a private capacity, to
     have reaped the fruit and benefit, together with my brethren,
     of our hard labours and hazards: the enjoyment, to wit, of
     peace and liberty, and the privileges of a Christian and a man,
     in some equality with others, according as it should please the
     Lord to dispense unto me. And when I say God had put an end to
     our wars, or at least brought them to a very hopeful issue,
     very near an end,--after Worcester fight,--I came up to London
     to pay my service and duty to the Parliament which then sat,
     hoping that all minds would have been disposed to answer what
     seemed to be the mind of God, namely, to give peace and rest to
     his people, and especially to those who had bled more than
     others in the carrying on of the military affairs,--I was much
     disappointed of my expectation. For the issue did not prove so.
     Whatever may be boasted or misrepresented, it was not so, not
     so!

     "I can say in the simplicity of my soul, I love not, I love
     not,--I declined it in my former speech,--I say, I love not to
     rake into sores, or to discover nakednesses! The thing I drive
     at is this: I say to you, I hoped to have had leave to retire
     to a private life. I begged to be dismissed of my charge; I
     begged it again and again; and God be judge between me and all
     men if I lie in this matter! That I lie not in matter of fact,
     is known to very many; but whether I tell a lie in my heart, as
     labouring to represent to you what was not upon my heart, I say
     the Lord be judge. Let uncharitable men, who measure others by
     themselves, judge as they please. As to the matter of fact, I
     say it is true. As to the ingenuity and integrity of my heart
     in that desire--I do appeal, as before, upon the truth of that
     also. But I could not obtain what my soul longed for. And the
     plain truth is, I did afterwards apprehend some more of
     opinion, (such the differences of their judgment from mine,)
     that it could not well be.

     "I confess I am in some strait to say what I could say, and
     what is true, of what then followed. I pressed the Parliament,
     as a member, to period themselves; once and again, and again,
     and ten, nay twenty times over. I told them, for I knew it
     better than any one man in the parliament could know it,
     because of my manner of life, which had led me every where up
     and down the nation, thereby giving me to see and know the
     temper and spirits of all men, and of the best of men--that the
     nation loathed their sitting. I knew it. And so far as I could
     discern, when they were dissolved, there was not so much as
     the barking of a dog, or any general or visible repining at
     it.

     "And that there was high cause for their dissolution, is most
     evident: not only in regard there was a just fear of that
     parliament's perpetuating themselves, but because it actually
     was their design. Had not their heels been trod upon by
     importunities from abroad, even to threats, I believe there
     never would have been any thoughts of rising, or of going out
     of that room, to the world's end. I myself was sounded, and by
     no mean persons tempted; and proposals were made me to that
     very end: that the parliament might be thus perpetuated; that
     the vacant places might be supplied by new elections, and so
     continue from generation to generation."

He proceeds to object to the measure which the Parliament was really about to pass, that it
would have established an uninterrupted succession of Parliaments, that there would have been
"a legislative power always sitting," which would thereby have encroached upon the executive
power. The speech then enlarges on the general assent of the people, of the army, of the judges,
of the civic powers, to the instrument of government, to the Protectorate, and on the implied
assent which they themselves had given by accepting their commissions under it.

     "And this being so, though I told you in my last speech that
     you were a free Parliament, yet I thought it was understood
     withal that I was the Protector, and the authority that called
     you! That I was in possession of the government by a good right
     from God and man. And if the fact be so, why should we
     sport with it?

After drawing the distinction between fundamentals, which may not be shaken, and circumstantials,
which it is in the power of Parliament to alter and modify, he continues:--

     "I would it had not been needful for me to call you hither to
     expostulate these things with you, and in such a manner as
     this! But necessity hath no law. Feigned necessities, imaginary
     necessities, are the greatest cozenage which man can put upon
     the providence of God, and make pretences to break known rules
     by. But it is as legal, as carnal, and as stupid to think that
     there are no necessities which are manifest and real, because
     necessities may be abused or feigned. You had
     the best people, indeed, of the Christian world put into your
     trust, when you came hither. You had the affairs of these
     nations delivered over to you in peace and quiet; you were, and
     we all are, put into an undisturbed possession, nobody making
     title to us: Through the blessing of God, our enemies were
     hopeless and scattered. We had peace at home; peace with almost
     all our neighbours round about. To have our peace and interest,
     whereof those were our hopes the other day, thus shaken, and
     put under such a confusion; and ourselves rendered hereby
     almost the scorn and contempt of those strangers who are
     amongst us to negotiate their masters' affairs!... Who shall
     answer for these things to God or to men? To men, to the people
     who sent you hither? who looked for refreshment from you; who
     looked for nothing but peace and quietness, and rest and
     settlement? When we come to give an account to them, we shall
     have it to say, 'Oh, we quarrelled for the Liberty of
     England; we contested, and went to confusion for
     that!--Wherein, I pray you, for the Liberty of England? I
     appeal to the Lord, that the desires and endeavours we have
     had--nay, the things will speak for themselves,--the liberty of
     England, the liberty of the people, the avoiding of tyrannous
     impositions either upon men as men, or Christians as
     Christians,--is made so safe by this act of settlement, that it
     will speak for itself."

The Protector then tells them that, "seeing the authority which called them is so little valued
and so much slighted, he had caused a stop to be put to their entrance into the Parliament-house,"
until a certain "somewhat," which would be found "in the lobby without the Parliament-door"--an
adhesion to the government in its fundamentals--should be signed.

This extract, as will be readily supposed, would lead to a far too favourable opinion of Cromwell's
oratory, if understood as a specimen of his usual manner of speaking; but our readers will
probably confess, that they did not expect that the speeches of Cromwell would have yielded
such an extract.

Oliver has, it will be observed, a singularly modest way of speaking of his political remedies
and projects. In referring, on a later occasion, to his major-generals, he says, "Truly when
that insurrection was, we did find out a little poor invention, which I hear has been much
regretted. I say there was a little thing invented, which was the erecting of your major-generals,
to have a little inspection upon the people thus divided, thus discontented, thus dissatisfied."
On the present occasion, the "somewhat which was to be found at the lobby of the Parliament-door,"
was, after a little demur, accepted and signed by all but a certain number of declared republicans.
The parliament afterwards fell from the discussion of a whole constitution, to debates apparently
as warm, and as endless, upon poor Biddle the Quaker, and other kindred subjects. Thus their
allotted session of five months passed; at the end of which time Cromwell dissolved them.

"I do not know what you have been doing," he tells them in his speech on this occasion. "I
do not know whether you have been alive or dead. I have not once heard from you all this time--I
have not--and that you all know."

Cromwell's second parliament manifested a wiser industry, and a more harmonious temper--thanks
to one of the Protector's "little inventions." Each member was to be provided with a certificate
before entering the house; "but near one hundred honourable gentlemen can get no certificate--none
provided for them--and without certificate there is no admittance. Soldiers stand ranked at
the door; no man enters without his certificate!" The stiff republicans, and known turbalent
persons, are excluded. From this Parliament Cromwell accepts again the title of Protector,
and is installed with great state; things take a more legal aspect; the major-generals are
suppressed; a House of Lords is instituted; and a settlement of the nation seems at last effected.

But the second session of this Parliament relapsed again into a restive and republican humour.
The excluded members had been admitted, and debates arose about this "other house," as they
were disposed to nominate the Lords. So much confusion resulted in the country from this unsettled
state of the representative assembly, and so many insurrectionary designs were fostered by
it, that the Protector was compelled abruptly to dissolve the Parliament. He tells them:--

     "That which brought me into the capacity I now stand in, was
     the petition and advice given me by you, who, in reference to
     the ancient constitution, did draw me to accept the place of
     Protector. There is not a man living can say I sought it; no,
     not a man nor a woman treading upon English ground. But,
     contemplating the sad condition of these nations, relieved from
     an intestine war into a six or seven years' peace, I did think
     the nation happy therein. But to be petitioned thereunto, and
     to be advised by you to undertake such a government, a burden
     too heavy for any creature--and this to be done by the House
     which then had the legislative capacity--certainly I did look
     that the same men who made the frame, should make it good unto
     me. But, undertaking it by the advice and petition of
     you, I did look that you who had offered it unto me, should
     make it good."

It is at this latter period of his career that the character of Cromwell, to our apprehension,
stands out to greatest advantage, becomes more grave, and solemn, and estimable. Other dictators,
other men of ambitious aims and fortunes, show themselves, for the most part, less amiable,
more tyrannous than ever, more violent and selfish, when they have obtained the last reward
of all their striving, and possessed themselves of the seat of power. It was otherwise with
Cromwell. He became more moderate, his views more expanded, his temper milder and more pensive.
The stormy passions of the civil war were overblown, the intricate and ambiguous passages of
his political course had been left behind; and now, whatever may have been the errors of the
past, and however his own ambition or rashness may have led him to it, he occupied a position
which he might say with truth he held for his country's good. Forsake it he could not. Repose
in it he could not. A man of religious breeding, of strong conscientiousness, though tainted
with superstition, he could not but feel the great responsibility of that position. A vulgar
usurper is found at this era of his career to sink into the voluptuary, or else to vent his
dissatisfied humour in acts of cruelty and oppression. Cromwell must govern, and govern to
his best. The restless and ardent spirit that had ever prompted him onwards and upwards, and
which had carried him to that high place, was now upon the wane. It had borne him to that giddy
pinnacle, and threatened to leave him there. Men were now aiming at his life; the assassin
was abroad; one-half the world was execrating him; we doubt not that he spoke with sincerity
when he said, that "he would gladly live under any woodside, and keep a flock of sheep." He
would gladly lay down his burden, but he cannot; can lay it down only in the grave. The sere
and yellow leaf is falling on the shelterless head of the royal Puritan. The asperity of his
earlier character is gone, the acrimony of many of his prejudices has, in his long and wide
intercourse with mankind, abated; his great duties have taught him moderation of many kinds;
there remains of the fiery sectarian, who so hastily "turned the buckle of his girdle behind
him," little more than his firmness and conscientiousness: his firmness that, as he truly said,
"could be bold with men;" his conscientiousness, which made the power he attained by that boldness,
a burden and a heavy responsibility.

"We have not been now four years and upwards in this government," says the Protector, in one
of his speeches, "to be totally ignorant of what things may be of the greatest concernment
to us." No; this man has not been an idle scholar. Since the Lord General took the reins of
civil government, and became Lord Protector, he has thought and learned much of statemanship.
But as a statesman, he is still first of all the Puritan. It is worth while to observe how
his foreign policy, which has been justly admired, took its turn and direction from his religious
feelings. He made alliances with the Protestant powers of the north, and assumed a firm attitude
of hostility towards Spain--and reasons of state may have had some sway in determining him
to these measures; but his great motive for hostility with Spain was, that she stood "at the
head of the antichristian interest"--"was described in the Scriptures to be papal and antichristian."

"Why, truly your great enemy is the Spaniard. He is a natural enemy. He is naturally so throughout,
by reason of that enmity that is in him against whatever is of God.... Your enemy, as I tell
you, naturally, by that antipathy which is in him,--and also providentially, (that is, by special
ordering of Providence.) An enmity is put in him by God. 'I will put an enmity between thy
seed and her seed,' which goes but for little among statesmen, but is more considerable than
all things. And he that considers not such natural enmity, the providential enmity as well
as the accidental, I think he is not well acquainted with the Scripture, and the things of
God,"--(Speech 5.)

In fine, we see in Cromwell, every where and throughout, the genuine, fervid Puritan--the Puritan
general, the Puritan statesman. He was a man, and, therefore, doubtless ambitious; he rose
through a scene of civil as well as military contest, and, doubtless, was not unacquainted
with dissimulation; but if we would describe him briefly, it is as the GREAT PURITAN that he
must, ever be remembered in history.

In parting company with the editor of these letters and speeches, we feel that we have not
done justice to the editorial industry and research which these volumes display. Our space
would not permit it. For the same reason we have been unable to quote several instances of
vivid narrative, which we had hoped to transfer to our own pages. And as to our main quarrel
with him--this outrageous adoption of Puritanical bile and superstition,--we have been haunted
all along by a suspicion we have occasionally expressed, that the man cannot be in earnest.
He could not have been so abandoned by his common sense. He has been so accustomed to mingle
sport, and buffoonery, and all sorts of wilful extravagance, with his most serious mood, that
he perhaps does not know himself when, and how far, he is in earnest. In turning over the leaves
of his work, we light, towards the end of the second volume, upon the following passage, which
may, perhaps, explain the temper of the writer, when he is abetting and encouraging his fanatical
heroes. He is uttering some sarcasms upon the poor "art of speech."

"Is there no sacredness, then, any longer in the miraculous tongue of man? Is his head become
a wretched cracked pitcher, on which you jingle to frighten crows, and makes bees hive? He
fills me with terror, this two-legged rhetorical phantasm! I could long for an Oliver without
rhetoric at all. I could long for a Mahomet, whose persuasive eloquence, with wild-flashing
heart and scimiter, is, 'Wretched moral, give up that; or by the Eternal, thy maker and mine,
I will kill thee! Thou blasphemous scandalous misbirth of Nature, is not even that the kindest
thing I can do for thee, if thou repent not, and alter in the name of Allah?'"

To this sort of satirical humour--to "the truth of a song,"--not Dryasdust himself would call
upon him to swear. And may not all his rhapsodies upon his "sword-in-hand" Puritans be little
more than an amplification of this one passage? And, if we insist upon it, that a reform by
the pen, or even by speech-making, is better than one by pike and musket--if we should suggest
that matters of civil government are better decided by civil and political reasoning than by
metaphorical texts of Scripture, interpreted by prejudice and passion--if we contend for such
truisms as these, shall we not be in danger of occupying some such position as the worthy prelate
whose sagacity led him to discover that some facts in Gulliver's Travels had surely been overcharged?

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Oliver Cromwell's Letters and Speeches, with Elucidations by Thomas Carlyle.

[2] Take the following instance from the early and more moderate times of the Revolution, and
wherein the most staid and sober of this class of people is concerned. When Essex left London
to march against the king, then at Oxford, he requested the assembly of divines to keep a fast
for his success. Baillie informs us how it was celebrated. "We spent from nine to five graciously.
God was so evidently in all this exercise that we expect certainly a blessing."--Baillie, quoted
from Lingard.

LAYS AND LEGENDS OF THE THAMES.

PART III.

----On passing the little village of Erith, once one of the prettiest rustic spots in Kent,
where the parson and the surgeon formed the heads of the community, and its only intelligence
of the living world depended on the casual arrival of a boat from the Margate Hoy in search
of fresh eggs for the voyage, a small house was pointed out to me, embosomed in a dell, which
would have completely suited the solitary tastes of a poet weary of the world:

    "Oh, for a lodge in some vast wilderness,
    Where rumour of oppression and deceit,
    Of unsuccessful, or successful war,
    Might never reach me more!"

Fifty years ago, a weekly newspaper was the only remembrancer to either parson or doctor, of
the world which they had left, and that one only sent by the member for the county, when he
thought it desirable to awake the general gratitude on the approach of a general election.
The Thames certainly might remind the village population that there were merchants and mariners
among mankind; but what were those passing phantoms to them? John the son of Thomas lived and
died as Thomas the father of John had lived and died from generation to generation. The first
news of the American war reached it in the firing of the Woolwich guns for peace; and the original
tidings of the French Revolution, in similar rejoicings for the Battle of Waterloo.

    "O happy ye, the happiest of your kind,
    Who leave alike life's woes and joys behind!"

says the philosophic Cowley; and with Cowley I perfectly agree.

But Erith is this scene of philosophy no more. It has now shared the march of mind: it has
become almost a watering-place; it has a library, a promenade, lodgings for gouty gentlemen,
a conventicle, several vigorous politicians, three doctors, and, most fatal of all, four steam-boat
arrivals every day. Solitude has fled, and meditation is no more.

But, to my story. In that lonely house, lived for several years, in the beginning of the century,
a singular character, of whom nothing more was known, than that he had come from some distant
place of abode; that he never received a letter; and that he never hunted, shot, or fished
with the squiredom of the country. He was of large form, loud voice, had a sullen look, and
no trust in her Majesty's ministers for the time being. At length, on some occasion of peculiar
public excitement, the recluse had gone to Gravesend, where, tempted by the impulse of the
moment, he had broken through his reserve, dashed out into a diatribe of singular fierceness,
but of remarkable power, accused England of all kinds of oppression to all kinds of countries,
and finished his speech by a recapitulation of all the wishes, wants, woes, and wrongs, as
he called them, of Ireland,

    "First flower of the west, and first gem of the ocean."

Within the next twelve hours, a pair of Bow Street officers were seen galloping into the village
in a post-chaise and four. They brought a warrant from the Secretary of State to arrest the
Irish orator, as a leader of the late Rebellion returned from transportation, on his own authority.
He was captured, and conveyed to the Tower. And this was the last intelligence of the patriot;
except that he appealed to the government against all repetition of his Australian voyage,
and swore that he preferred the speedier performance of the law to the operations on the Coal-mine
river. A remarkable tempest, which broke all the windows, and threw down half the chimneys
of the city, a few weeks after; was supposed by the imaginative to be connected with his disappearance.
At all events, he was heard of no more.

THE VISION.

    Thunder pealed and lightning quivered,
    Gusts a prison's casements shivered.
    From its dungeon rose a scream,
    Where, awakened by the gleam,
    From his pallet rose and ran,
    Wild with fear, a stalwart man.
    Saw he in his tortured sleep,
    Things that make the heart-veins creep?
    Swept he through the world of flame,
    Chased by shapes that none may name?
    Still, as bars and windows clanged,
    Still he roared--"I will be hanged."

    Sleep had swept him o'er the seas,
    To the drear antipodes;
    There he saw a felon band,
    Chains on neck, and spade in hand,
    Orators, all sworn to die
    In "Old Ireland's" cause--or fly!
    Now, divorced from pike and pen,
    Digging ditch, and draining fen,
    Sky their ceiling, sand their bed,
    Fed and flogged, and flogged and fed.
    "Operatives!" he harangued;
    "Ere I'm banished--I'll be hanged."

    Now, he strove to strike a light,
    But, a form of giant height
    Through the crashing casement sprang;
    Shattered stanchions round him rang,
    From his eyes a light within
    Showed the blackness of his skin;
    In his lips a huge cigar
    Smouldered, like a dying star;
    Holding to the culprit's eyes,
    Writ in flame, a scroll of lies,
    Champing jaws with iron fanged,
    "Friend," cried he, "you shall be hanged."

    'Twixt the tempter and the rogue,
    Then began the dialogue:
    --"Master--shall I rob the state?"
    "Not, unless you'd dine off plate."
    --"Shall I try my hand at law?"
    "You'll be sure to make a flaw."
    --"Shall I job in Parliament?"
    "You'll be richer, cent per cent."
    --"Shall I truckle, or talk big?"
    "You'll but get a judge's wig,
    Blockheads may be conscience-panged,
    Knaves are pensioned, but, not hanged!"

    --"Master, must I then escape?"
    "No," exclaimed the knowing shape,
    "You shall perish by Lynch-Law."
    Through his skull he struck a claw,
    On the tempest burst a wail,
    Through the bars a serpent-tail,
    Flashing like a lightning spire,
    Seemed to set the cell on fire;
    Far and wide was heard the clang,
    Through the whirlwind as they sprang.
    Many a year the sulphurous fume
    Stung the nostril in that room.

The river widens, and we sweep along by the rich slopes and deep wooded vales of the Kentish
shore. From time to time little pastoral villages emerge, from plantations of willows and poplars,
and all water-loving trees. Before coming to Purfleet, we had passed a noble hill, looking
over a vast expanse of country, on which stands a princely mansion,--Belvedere, with its battlements
glittering above groves as thick as the depths of the Black Forest. This was once the mansion
of Lord Eardley, one of the greatest humorists of the age,--the companion of George the Fourth,
before he ceased to be a wit and became a king.

How many delightful things are lost to the world, by the world's own laziness. Why have we
not a Boswell in every city? Her majesty pays a laureate, who writes nothing but the annual
receipt for his pension. Why not transfer the office to a Boswell? why not establish a Cabinet-dinner
Boswell? a Buckingham-palace Boswell? a Windsor Boswell? with orders to make their weekly returns
of gaiety and gossipry to the Home Department; to be thence issued by instalments of anecdote,
in volumes, like "Lord Campbell's Lives of the Chancellors," or in columns, like the protocols
of the Montpensier marriage, for the laughter of mankind?

But the report of a heavy gun, and all eyes turned to a huge shell, making its curve a mile
above our heads, reminded us that the artillery had a field-day as we passed Woolwich, and
that there was every possibility that this vagrant messenger of destruction, might plump into
our midships. The consternation on board grew, as it descended, looking bigger and blacker
every instant. If it had come on board, it must have torn us up like paper. The catastrophe
would have been invaluable to the journals of the empire, at this moment of a dearth of news,
enough to make bankrupts of all the coffee-houses in London, and close every club from Charing
Cross to Hyde Park Corner. We should all have been immortal in paragraphs without number. Coroners,
surgeons, poets, and special juries, would have made their reputation out of us; and for a
month of hot weather, we should have been a refreshing topic in the mouths of mankind. But
it was otherwise decreed: the shell dropped within a foot of the steamer, and we were quittes
pour la peur.

I fired a poetic shot at Woolwich in return.

    THE ROYAL ARSENAL.

    Woolwich--Woolwich,
    The Thames is thy ditch,
      And stout hearts are thy fortification.
    Let come who come may,
    All is open as day,
      Thy gates are as free as thy nation.

    Let the King of the French
    Build wall, or dig trench,
      Though he has no more princes to marry,
    Our trench is the sea,
    And our walls are the free,
      And we laugh at thy "grande enceinte, Paris."

    Deep and dark on their quay,
    Like lions at bay,
      Stand the guns that set earth at defiance;
    With mountains of ball,
    Which, wherever they fall,
      With their message make speedy compliance.

    Along the Parade
    Lies the brisk carronade,
      With Wellington's joy, the twelve-pounder.
    And the long sixty-eight,
    Made for matters of weight,
      The world has no arguments sounder.

    There stands the long rocket,
    That shot, from its socket,
      Puts armies, pell-mell, to the rout, sir;
    At Leipsic, its tail
    Made Napoleon turn pale,
      And sent all his braves right about, sir.

    And there gapes the mortar,
    That seldom gives quarter,
      When speaking to ship or to city;
    For, although deaf and dumb,
    Its tongue is a bomb--
      And so, there's an end of my ditty.

The sun had now overcome the mists of the morning, and was throwing a rich lustre over the
long sheets of foliage which screened, but without concealing, a large and classic villa on
the Essex side. The park reached to the water's edge, in broad vistas, green as the emerald;
deer were moving in groups over the lawn, or on standing still to gaze on the wonder of our
flying ship. A few boats were slowly passing near the shore, along with the tide; the water
was without a ripple,--the air was soft and fragrant, as it flowed from grove and garden; and
the whole was a scene of sylvan and summer beauty. The thought suddenly shot across my mind,
what a capital prize this would be, in a revolution! How handsomely it would repay a patriot
for his trouble in uprooting lords and commons! What a philosophic consummation of a life of
husting harangues, and league itinerancy, it would be, to lie on the drawing-room sofa of a
mansion so perfectly Greek, railing at the tyranny of thrones, the bigotry of bishops, and
the avarice of aristocracies; lamenting the privations of the poor, over a table of three courses,
and drinking confusion to all monopolies in Vin de Comete!

But, who was the present possessor? I asked the name and heard it. But, from the captain to
the cabin-boy, not a soul could give me another syllable of information. Like the gravedigger
in Hamlet, they might "cudgel their brains," but all came to the gravedigger's confession at
last,--"Mass, I cannot tell."

Such, thought I, are the chances of the world. The owner of this marine palace,--of these gardens,
groves, deer, and dovecotes,--cannot have less than £10,000 a-year; yet his name has never
reached the auricular sensibilities of man, beyond the fence of his own park. Was he philosopher,
statesman, lawyer, orator, historian? inventor of steam-engine, of spinning jenny, of gunpowder,
or of gun-cotton? No, I searched every cell of memory for some "trivial fond record" which
might justify his title to a mansion and grounds fit for Sophocles, Schiller, or Shakspeare,
the master of them all. I could not find, in all the rolls of the court of reminiscences, a
single scrape of the pen to inform me; not so much as the commemorative smoke of a candle on
the ceiling of the alcove of Mnemosyne; not a vestige of the "light fantastic toe," of those
sylphs who treasure the flippancies of noble pens, and live in the fragrance of albums, otto-perfumed.
Still I was driven to the confession, "Mass, I cannot tell."

I had brought a volume of poor Tom Campbell in my pocket, and had been glancing over his chef-d'oeuvre,
"Ye Mariners of England," when this stately edifice first checked my inspiration. In the wrath
of my spirit I tossed the volume overboard. "Psha!" I involuntarily exclaimed, "what is the
use of being a genius? What is the gratitude of a country, where a cotton-spinner can purchase
the fee-simple of a province, while the man who spreads its fame over the world is left to
gather his contemplations over a stove in an attic, watch the visage of his landlady, and shudder
at the rise of coals!

     'England, with all thy faults I love thee still.'

But it must be confessed, that thou art the most pitiful, paltry, beggarly, blind--" I shall
say no more. Thy whole munificence, thy whole magnanimity, thy whole generosity, to the living
lights of thy sullen region of toil, trimming, and tribulation, of the dulness of dukes and
the mountainous fortunes of pinmakers--is exactly £1200 a-year! and this to be divided among
the whole generation of the witty and the wise, of the sons and daughters of the muse,--the
whole "school of the prophets," the lustres of the poetry and the science of England! £1200
a-year for the only men of their generation who will be remembered for five minutes by the
generation to come. £1200 a-year, the salary of an Excise commissioner, of a manipulator of
the penny post, of a charity inspector, of a police magistrate, of a register of cabs, of any
thing and every body: and this, reduced to decimals, is to be the national prize, the luxurious
provision, the brilliant prospect, the illustrious tribute of a treasury of fifty millions
sterling a-year, to the whole literature of a land which boasts of its being the intellectual
leader of the world!

I have found the poems of our living bards on the shores of Hudson's Bay, and heard men talking
of them round a stove, while the thermometer outside the window was 30° below zero. I have
found them in a plantain-thatched hovel on the banks of the Niger, and forgotten while I read
them that the thermometer was 110° in the shade. I have found them in the hands of a learned
pundit on the banks of the Ganges, whom they were seducing into dreams of dewy pastures and
crystal rills. And one of the pleasantest evenings I ever remember to have spent, was, by the
help of the "Lay of the Last Minstrel," as I sat at a supper of rice milk, after a day of fire
on the eastern branch of the Nile, a thousand miles above Tourists, sheltered under the wagon
of a Moorish ambassador from Sultaun Abderahman to the monarch of Gondar. "England!" exclaimed
this ebony-visaged worshipper of the Beaux Arts, as he displayed the volume before me. It was
the only civilised word in his vocabulary. But I felt the compliment with patriotic fervency,
and in spirit thanked the bard for the barbarian's acknowledgment of my poetic and penurious
country.

I have not done with the theme yet. On returning from the equator, I saw Campbell's funeral.
Westminster Abbey was a mob of dukes, statesmen, privy-councillors, and men of countless acres.
Poor Tom's whole life had been thankless toil; wasting in meagre industry the powers which
ought to have been cherished by his country for purposes of national honour. Such is always
the course of things. The very stones of Burns' pillars would have made the great poet happy
for life, if their price had been given to him to cheer his melancholy fireside. Why has the
poetic spirit of England folded its wings, and been content to abandon its brilliant region
to the butterflies of albums, but that the spirit of England has suffered itself to be fettered
by the red tape of a peddling parsimony? Should we have had a Shakspeare without the smiles
of an Elizabeth, and the generosity of a Southampton? No. He would have split his pen after
his first tragedy; have thrown his ink-stand into the Thames; have taken the carrier's cart
to Stratford, and there finished his days in writing epitaphs in the churchyard, laughing at
Sir Thomas Lucy, and bequeathing deathless scoffs, to the beggary of mankind.

I was growing into what the dramatists call a "towering passion," and meditating general reforms
of Civil Lists, Chancellors of the Exchequer, and Lord Chamberlains, when my attention was
turned to a very animated scene going on between a pair who seemed perfectly unconscious of
all the external creation. One of the parties was a showy-looking fellow, with the mingled
expression of rouéism and half-pay, which is so frequent and so unmistakeable in the neighbourhood
of St James's. The lady was a calm and composed personage, whom, on a second glance, I remembered
to have seen wherever the world could bow down to the fair possessor of countless "consols."
But the passion for a handsome mansion, a handsome stud, and a handsome rental, is indefatigable,
and the ex-staff man poured his adorations into her ear with all the glow of a suitor ten thousand
pounds worse than nothing.

Poesy! sweetest of all the maids of Parnassus! it is thou that givest thy votary power to read
the soul: it is thou that canst translate the glance into a speech, and give eloquence to the
clasp of a hand. It is thou alone to whom the world is indebted for this true version of the
pleadings of the Guardsman.

TRUE LOVE.

    Exquisite Miss Millionaire!
    Hear a lover's genuine prayer:
    Let the world adore your charms,
    Swan-like neck, or snowy arms,
    Rosy smile, or dazzling glance,
    Making all our bosoms dance;
    For your purse alone I care,
    Exquisite Miss Millionaire!
    Ringlets blackest of the black,
    Ivory shoulders, Grecian back,
    Tresses so divinely twined,
    That we long to be the wind,
    Waiting till the lady's face
    Turns, to give the coup de grace.
    All those spells to me are air.
    Truth is truth, Miss Millionaire.

    Let them talk of finger-tips,
    Pearly teeth, or coral lips,
    Cheeks the morning rose that mock,
    Still there is a charm in Stock!
    Solid mortgage, five per cent,
    Freehold with "improving" rent,
    Russia bond, and railroad share,
    Steal my soul, Miss Millionaire.

    Let your rhymers (all are crackt)
    Rave of cloud or cataract;
    On the Rhine, or Rhone, or Arve,
    Let romancers stroll and starve.
    Cupid loves a gilded cage,
    (Let me choose your equipage,)
    Passion pants for Portman Square,
    (Be but mine,) Miss Millionaire.

    There you'll lead a London life,
    More a goddess than a wife;
    Fifty thousand pounds a-year
    Making our expenses clear;
    Giving, once a-week, a fête,
    Simply to display our plate.
    Never earth saw such a pair,
    Exquisite Miss Millionaire!

But a steeple starts up from its green thickets; not one of the hideous objects which the architects
of our district churches perpetrate, to puzzle the passer-by as to the purpose of its being,--whether
a brewer's chimney, or a shot-tower,--a perch for city pigeons, or a standing burlesque on
the builders of the nineteenth age of the fine arts in England. This steeple is an old grey
turret, ivy-mantled, modest, and with that look of venerable age which instinctively makes
us feel, that it has witnessed memorable things in its time.

And it has witnessed them. On the slope of the hill above this church once waved the banners
of a king, and the opposing banners of his nobles: the one receiving the lesson, that kings
have duties as well as their subjects; and the others enforcing the lesson by the sight of
lines and columns of the stout bowmen and billmen of the Norman chivalry.--On this spot, just
this day six hundred and thirty years ago, was held the grand conference between John and the
Barons.

Further inland, but rising on the view, is Swainscomb, the hill on which the Danish armies
encamped, in their pirate rovings of the British seas, and their invasions of the Thames.

What a contrast between the green landscape of this moment, and the camp of Sweno. All before
me was the luxury of cultivation, the yellowing crop, the grazing cattle, the cottage smoke
curling slowly upward on the back-ground of noble beech, ash, and sycamore. On the summit,
the sun gleamed on a rectory house, half buried in roses, where the most learned of our Orientalists
perused the Koran in the peace of a Mahometan paradise, and doubtless saw, on the dancing waters
of the mighty river at his feet, perpetual visions of houris.

Yet those pastures once echoed with the barbarian cries of the Cimbric warriors; tents of seal-skin
and white bear fur covered the hill; the smokes of savage feasting and Scandinavian sacrifice
clouded the skies; and on the summit, surrounded by iron guards and spectral-looking priests,
stood the magic standard of the north, the image of the Raven, which flapped its wings on the
coming of battle, and gave the oracular cry of victory.

But, what sounds of harmony sweep along the water! I see a range of showy figures on the shore;
it is a whole brass band, seducing us, in the style of the syrens of old, to bring our ship
to an anchor, and hazard the enchantments of the most delicious of tea-gardens.--We are within
a hundred yards of the pier of Rosherville.

Within five minutes, we might be roaming through this paradise of the Thames, climbing rustic
slopes carpeted with flowers, or gazing at a menagerie, where the monkeys bound, chatter, and
take apples out of your hand; or sipping coffee of the most fragrant growth, or dancing the
polka under alcoves of painted canvass, large enough to manoeuvre a brigade of the Horse-guards.
By day the scene is romantic, but by night it is magical. By day the stranger roams through
labyrinths of exotic vegetation, but by night he is enchanted with invisible music, dazzled
with fireworks, and goes to his pillow to dream of the Arabian Nights. Honour to the name of
Jeremiah Rosher, the discoverer of the "capabilities" of this Garden of the Hesperides. He
found it a lime quarry, and made it a bower of Armida. If, as the great moralist said, "the
man who makes two blades of grass grow where but one grew before, is a benefactor to mankind,"
what honours should be paid to the genius, which substituted human beings for lime-burners,
and made the élite of the east end of the mighty metropolis dance by thousands, where nothing
but the top of a thistle ever danced before. There have been more "first affections" awakened
in the rambles through the shades of Rosherville than in fifty Almacks, and five hundred times
more matches in consequence, than ever took refuge in Gretna; and all this--for a shilling!

As we neared the pier, I observed a small but elegant yacht, lying to; with several groups
of dark-featured and cloak-covered men listening, with all the eagerness of foreign gesture,
to the brazen harmony. My Italian compagnon de voyage, instantly bounded from his seat, ran
to the ship's side, and held a rapid dialogue with the crew of the little vessel. They were
just from Rome, and were bringing over the newly appointed Archbishop from the Vatican! The
novelty of the voyage did not seem to agree with the pleasurable faculties of those sons of
"Bella Italia," for nothing could be conceived more deplorable than their physiognomies.

The scene reminded me of one which I had witnessed at Naples, on the arrival of the first steam-boat
from Rome, conveying the Cardinal Legate to the Court of his Majesty of the Two Sicilies.

I disdain all the formalities of poetry. Let others prepare their parchment-bound portfolios,
throw their visages into the penseroso, fling their curls back from their brows, unbutton their
shirt-collars, and, thus Byronised, begin. To me all times and places are the same.--The inspiration
rushes on me, and I pour out my "unpremeditated song" in the original rapture of Bardism!

THE CARDINAL'S VOYAGE.

    I have seen some queer things,
    Both in people and kings,
        Since first I began as a dreamer;
    But I ne'er thought to hear
    Any thing half so queer
        As a Cardinal's trip in a steamer.

    I once saw a Rabbi,
    The prince of the shabby,
        In a gale of wind playing the screamer,
    Till we plumped him o'erboard,
    Towed along by a cord,
        For a bath at the tail of the steamer.

    'Tis true, the Chinese
    Looked as black as their teas,
        When battered by brave Sir John Bremer:
    But John Chinaman's slaughter
    Was all milk and water,
        To the havoc on board of the steamer.

    On a coil of the cable,
    Right under the table,
        With the glass at 500 of Reaumur,
    Busy "making his soul,"
    As he felt every roll,
        Lay his Highness, on board of the steamer.

    Around him ten chaplains,
    And none of them saplings,
        Lay pale as a quarantine streamer.
    With six dozen of monks,
    All as helpless as trunks,
        All rolling about in the steamer.

    As she steered down the Tiber,
    It shook every fibre
        Of the conclave from forehead to femur;
    But, 'twas when in her glee,
    She got sight of the sea,
        That she showed them the tricks of the steamer.

    At Civita Vecchia,
    Oh, mie orecchie!
        What howls called the Saints to redeem her.
    But she darted along
    Like a stone from a thong,
        In the style of a true British steamer.

    She now ruled the roast,
    As she sprang from the coast,
        Through such surges no buckets could teem her:
    The Lipari Isles
    Got but very few smiles
        From the brethren on board of the steamer.

    "As sure as we're born,
    We'll ne'er see Leghorn."
        "Peccavi!" cried out every schemer:
    The whole of the friars.
    In that court were "criers,"
        While thundered the wheels of the steamer.

    I'd not stand in their shoes,
    As they passed Syracuse,
        Where thy frigate lay moored, Captain Seymour:
    At the top of their throats
    Yelling out for thy boats,
        While teeth to the wind went the steamer.

    As they swept by Messina--
    Thy birth-place, Christina!--
        Old Etna was scarce such a beamer:
    In vain they cried--"Stop!"
    With a blaze at her top,
        Like a pillar of flame rushed the steamer.

    She bounced by Charybdis,
    With limestone which ribb'd is;
        A touch from a pebble might seam her;
    Made a curtsey to Scylla,
    As the Turks say, "Bismillah,"
        'Twas a very close shave for the steamer.

    But the surges grew brown,
    And the night hurried down,
        And they saw in each flash a death-gleamer;
    While the peals from the clouds,
    And the wind in the shrouds,
        Made them all very sick of the steamer.

    When they made Capri's lights
    It redoubled their frights,
        And the friars all bellowed--"Tenemur!"
    One and all made confessions,
    (E'en popes have transgressions,)
        There was some heavy work in the steamer.

    But they soon smelt the apples
    And fish-shops of Naples,
        And the cargo began to esteem her--
    "No witch in a sieve,
    They could ever believe,
        Had sailed half so fast as the steamer."

    Could my pen give a sketch
    Of each wo-begone wretch,
        Like Gilray, H. B., or old Damer,
    You should have the whole troop
    That lay stretched on the poop,
        As up by the mole dashed the steamer.

    Were I Guizot, or Florian,
    Or "Oxford Historian,"
        Or "Orator" like Dr Cremer,
    In my grand paragraphs,
    You should have all the laughs
        Of the mob as they rushed from the steamer!

LETTERS ON THE TRUTHS CONTAINED IN POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS.

II.--VAMPYRISM.

Dear Archy,--In acknowledging my former letter, you express an eager desire to learn, as you
phrase it, "all about vampyrs, if there ever were such things." I will not delay satisfying
your curiosity, wondering only how my friend, your late tutor, Mr H., should have left you
in a state of uncertainty upon a point on which, in my time, schoolboys many years your juniors
had fully made up their minds.

"Were there ever such things as vampyrs?" tantamne rem tam negligenter? I turn to the learned
pages of Horst for a luminous and precise definition of the destructive and mysterious beings,
whose existence you have ventured to consider problematical.

Upon my word, you really deserve--Since Mr George Combe has clearly shown in his admirable
work "On the Constitution of Man, and its adaptation to the world around him," that ignorance
is a statutable crime before Nature, and punishable, and punished by the laws of Providence,--you
deserve, I say, unless you contrive to make Mr H. your substitute, which I think would be just,
yourself to be the subject of the nocturnal visit of a vampyr. Your scepticism will abate pretty
considerably, when you see him stealthily entering your room, yet are powerless under the fascination
of his fixed and leaden eye--when you are conscious, as you lie motionless with terror, of
his nearer and nearer approach,--when you feel his face, fresh with the smell of the grave,
bent over your throat, while his keen teeth make a fine incision in your jugular, preparatively
to his commencing his plain, but nutritive repast.

You would look a little paler the next morning, but that would be all for the moment; for Fischer
informs us, that the bite of a vampyr leaves in general no mark upon the person. But he fearfully
adds, "it (the bite) is nevertheless speedily fatal, unless the bitten person protect himself
by eating some of the earth from the grave of the vampyr, and smearing himself with his blood."
Unfortunately, indeed, these measures are only of temporary use. Fischer adds, "if through
these precautions the life of the victim be prolonged for a period, sooner or later he ends
with becoming a vampyr himself; that is to say, he dies, and is buried, but continues to lead
a vampyr life in the grave, nourishing himself by infecting others, and promiscuously propagating
vampyrism."

Now this is no romancer's dream. It is a succinct account of a superstition, which to this
day survives in the east of Europe, where little more than a century ago it was frightfully
prevalent. At that epoch, vampyrism spread like, an epidemic pestilence through Servia and
Wallachia, causing innumerable deaths, and disturbing all the land with apprehension of the
mysterious visitation, against which no one felt his life secure.

This is something like a good solid practical popular delusion. Do I believe it?--to be sure
I do; the facts are matter of history. The people died like sheep, and the cause and method
of their dying was, in their belief, what has just been stated. You suppose, then, they died,
frightened out of their lives; as men have died, whose pardon has been proclaimed when their
necks were already on the block, of the belief that they were going to die? Well, if that were
all, the subject would be worth examining; but there is more in it than that, as the following
o'er true tale will convince you, the essential parts of which are attested by perfect documentary
evidence.

It was in the spring of 1727 that there returned from the Levant to the village of Meduegna,
near Belgrade, one Arnod Paole, who, in a few years of military service and varied adventure,
had amassed enough to purchase him a cottage, and an acre or two of land in his native place,
where he gave out he meant to pass the remainder of his days. He kept his word. Arnod had yet
scarcely reached the prime of manhood; and though he must have encountered the rough, as well
as the smooth of life, and have mingled with many a wild and reckless companion, yet his natural
good disposition, and honest principle, had preserved him unscathed amid the scenes he had
passed through. At all events, such were the thoughts expressed by his neighbours, as they
discussed his return and settlement among them in the stube of the village Hof. Nor did the
frank and open countenance of Arnod, his obliging habits, and steady conduct, argue their judgment
incorrect. Nevertheless, there was something occasionally, noticeable in his ways, a look and
tone that betrayed inward inquietude. Often would he refuse to join his friends, or on some
sudden plea abruptly quit their society. And he still more unaccountably, and as it seemed
systematically, avoided meeting his pretty neighbour, Nina, whose father occupied the next
tenement to his own. At the age of seventeen, Nina was as charming a picture as you could have
seen, of youth, cheerfulness, innocence, and confidence in all the world. You could not look
into her limpid eyes, which steadily returned your gaze, without seeing to the bottom of the
pure and transparent spring of her thoughts. Then why did Arnod shrink from meeting her? He
was young, had a little property, had health and industry, and he had told his friends he had
formed no ties in other lands. Why, then, did he avoid the fascination of the pretty Nina,
who seemed a being made to chase from any brow the clouds of gathering care? But he did so.
Yet less and less resolutely; for he felt the charm of her presence; who could have done otherwise?
and how could he at last resist--he didn't--the impulse of his fondness for the innocent girl
who often sought to cheer his fits of depression?

And they were to be united; were betrothed; yet still an anxious gloom would fitfully overcast
his countenance even in the sunshine of those hours.

"What is it, dear Arnod, that makes you sad? it cannot be on my account, I know; for you were
sad before you ever noticed me; and that I think," and you should have seen the deepening rose
upon her cheek, as she added, "surely first made me notice you."

"Nina," he answered, "I have done, I fear, a great wrong in trying to gain your affections.
Nina, I have a fixed impression that I shall not live; yet, knowing this, I have selfishly
made my existence necessary to your happiness."

"How strangely you talk, dear Arnod! Who in the village is stronger and healthier than you?
You feared no danger when you were a soldier; what danger do you fear as a villager of Meduegna?"

"It haunts me, Nina."

"But, Arnod, you were sad before you thought of loving me. Did you then fear to die?"

"Ah, Nina, it is something worse than death:" and his vigorous frame shook with agony.

"Arnod, I conjure you, tell me."

"It was in Cossova this fate befel me. Here we have hitherto escaped the terrible scourge.
But there they died, and the dead visited the living. I experienced a first frightful visitation,
and I fled, but not till I had sought his grave, and exacted the dread expiation from the vampyr."

Nina uttered a piercing cry, and fell senseless. Afterwards, they found a consolation in the
length of time, now months, that had elapsed, since Arnod had left Cossova, during which no
fearful visitant had again approached him; and they fondly began to hope that gave them security.
For the poor girl well knew from many a village tale the danger to which Arnod had been exposed.

It is a strange world. The ills we fear often never befall us: the blows that reach us are
for the most part unforeseen ones. One day, about a week after this conversation, Arnod missed
his footing and fell from the top of his loaded hay-wagon. He was picked up stunned and insensible.
They carried him home; where, after lingering some hours, he died; was buried; but not forgotten.

Twenty or thirty days after his decease, says the perfectly authenticated report of these transactions,
several in the neighbourhood made complaints that they had been haunted by the deceased Arnod;
and four of the number (among whom, there being nothing in the report to the contrary, I am
afraid we may include poor Nina) died. To put a term to this fearful evil, the villagers were
advised by their Heyduke, who had had before some experience in such matters, to disinter the
body of Arnod Paole. This step was accordingly taken forty days after his burial.

"The body," says the report, "was found in a perfectly fresh state, with no sign of decomposition.
Fresh blood had recently escaped from its mouth, with which its shirt was wet. The skin (the
epidermis, no doubt) had separated together with the nails, and there were new skin and nails
underneath. As it was perfectly clear from these signs that he was a vampyr, conformably to
the use established in such cases, they drove a stake through his heart.

"Whereupon he gave an audible groan, and a quantity of blood flowed from him. The same day
his body was burned to ashes, which were returned to the grave."

The authorities further staked and burned the bodies of the four others, who were supposed
to have been infected by Arnod: but no mention is made of the condition in which they were found.

The adoption of this decisive, measure did not, however, entirely extinguish the evil, which
continued still to hang about the village. About five years afterwards it had again become
rife and very prevalent, and many again died of it. Whereupon the authorities determined to
make a general clearance of the vampyrs in the churchyard of Meduegna, and for that purpose
they had all the graves to which suspicion was directed, opened, and their contents dealt with
conformably to the state in which they were found, of which the following is the medical report,
here and there abridged only:--

1. A woman of the name of Stana, 20 years of age, who had died 3 months before of a 3 days'
illness following her confinement. She had before her death avowed that she had anointed herself
with the blood of a vampyr, to liberate herself from his persecution. Nevertheless she, as
well as her infant, whose body through careless interment had been half-eaten by dogs, both
had died. Her body was entirely free from decomposition. On opening it, the chest was found
full of recently effused blood. The heart and blood-vessels contained no coagulated blood,
and the bowels had exactly the appearances of sound health. The skin and nails of the hands
and feet were loose and came off, but underneath lay new skin and nails.

2. A woman of the name of Miliza, who had died at the end of a 3 months' illness. The body
had been buried 90 and odd days. In the chest was liquid blood. The viscera were as in the
former instance. The body was declared by the Heydukes who recognised it, to be in better condition
and fatter than it had been in the woman's legitimate lifetime.

3. The body of a child of 8 years old, that had likewise been buried 90 days; it was in the
vampyr condition.

4. The son of a Heyduke, named Milloc 16 years old. The body had lain in the grave 9 weeks.
He had died after 3 days' indisposition, and was in the condition of a vampyr.

5. Joachim, likewise a Heyduke's son, 17 years old. He had died after a 3 days' illness; had
been buried 8 weeks and 4 days; was found in the vampyr state.

6. A woman of the name of Rusha, who had died of an illness of 10 days' duration, and had been
buried 6 weeks, in whom likewise fresh blood was found in the chest.

[The reader will understand, that to see blood in the chest it is first necessary to cut the
chest open.]

7. The body of a girl of 10 years of age, who had died 2 months before. It was likewise in
the vampyr state, perfectly undecomposed, with blood in the chest.

8. The body of the wife of one Hadnuck, buried 7 weeks before; and that of her infant, 8 weeks
old, buried only 21 days. They were both in a state of decomposition, though buried in the
same ground, and closely adjoining the others.

9. A servant of the Heyduke of the place, by name Rhade, 23 years old; he had died after an
illness of 3 months' duration, and the body had been buried 5 weeks. It was in a state of decomposition.

10. The body of the Heyduke Stanco, 60 years of age, who had died six weeks before: there was
much blood and other fluid in the chest and abdomen, and the body was in the vampyr condition.

11. Milloc, a Heyduke, 25 years old. The body had been in the earth 6 weeks. It was in the
perfect vampyr condition.

12. Stanjoika, the wife of a Heyduke, 20 years old; had died after an illness of three days,
and had been buried 18 days. The countenance was florid, and of a high colour. There was blood
in the chest and in the heart. The viscera were perfectly sound. The skin remarkably fresh.

The document which gives these particulars is signed by three regimental surgeons, and formally
countersigned by the lieutenant-colonel and a sub-lieutenant, it bears the date of June 7,
1732, Meduegna near Belgrade. No doubt can be entertained of its authenticity, nor of its general
fidelity; the less so, that it does not stand alone, but is supported by heaps of parallel
evidence, only less rigorously verifiable. It appears to me to establish beyond a question,
that, where the fear and belief of vampyrism is prevailing, and there occur several deaths
after short illnesses, the bodies, when disinterred, weeks after burial, present the appearance
of corpses, from which life has only recently departed.

What inference shall we draw from this fact?--that vampyrism is true in the popular sense,
and that these fresh-looking and well-conditioned corpses had some mysterious way of preternaturally
nourishing themselves? That would be to adopt, not to solve the superstition. Let us content
ourselves for the present with a notion less monstrous, but still startling enough: That the
bodies, which were found in the so-called vampyr state, instead of being in a new and mystical
condition, were simply alive in the common way; that, in short, they were the bodies of persons
who had been buried alive; and whose life was only extinguished by the ignorance and barbarity
of those who disinterred them. In the following sketch of a similar scene to that above described,
the truth of this inference comes out with terrific force and vividness.

Erasmus Francisi, in his remarks upon the description of the Archdukedom of Krain, by Valvasor,
speaks of a man of the name of Grando, in the district of Kring, who died, was buried, and
became a vampyr, and as such was exhumed for the purpose of having a stake thrust through him.

"When they opened his grave, after he had been long buried, his face was found with a colour,
and his features made natural sorts of movements, as if the dead man smiled. He even opened
his mouth, as if he would inhale fresh air. They held the crucifix before him, and called in
a loud voice, 'See, this is Jesus Christ who redeemed your soul from hell, and died for you.'
After the sound had acted on his organs of hearing, and he had connected, perhaps, some ideas
with it, tears began to flow from the dead man's eyes. Finally, when, after a short prayer
for his poor soul, they proceeded to hack off his head, the corpse uttered a screech, and turned
and rolled just as if it had been alive, and the grave was full of blood."

Alive, then, the bodies surely were. And it is from this position, as a starting point, that
we must follow and unravel the whole mystery, if we dare.

Not that there is any particular virulence in this superstition, but that all superstitions
are awkward things to deal with. They have their own laws, and run through definite stages,
but always menace those who meddle with them. A superstition waxes and flourishes--that is
its first stage; it then wanes in public opinion, is discredited, and is declared obsolete;
that is stage the second. Eventually comes more enlightenment; its wonders are again admitted,
but explained; the false in it separated from the true; this is its third and last period.
And it may be remarked, that society is never safe against the reproduction of a superstition,
till it has gone through this third stage (analogous to the disinterment and dissection of
a vampyr); till then, it is always capable of "walking" again. But, which is singular, to the
end the operation of explaining a superstition is unsafe, that is to say, if you step a quarter
of an inch before the sagacious nose of the public. Of course, if any one should attempt to
explain away a flourishing superstition, he would encounter, not martyrdom, perhaps, any more,
but the persecution of opinion certainly, and the ban of society. But if he ventures upon the
same process, even with one that is already put down, he is liable to be viewed and attacked
as a credulous person, disposed to revive forgotten rubbish; for he has unwittingly affronted
public opinion by asserting that to be worth examining, which society had proclaimed an error.
Doubly wo to him if his explanation contain some startling novelty! But, courage! again,--

The bodies disinterred and found in the so-called vampyr state, were then alive.

But how could they, you ask, be alive after an interment of days or weeks? How is it possible
they could lie without air, boxed up in a manner which would certainly kill a strong and healthy
person in a few minutes or hours, and yet retain their vitality? I will not bring forward as
favourable cases in point, the instances of frogs and toads that have been discovered in rocks,
where they must have been encased for years or centuries, alive: first, because, although they
are true, you might equally question these; secondly, because a human being cannot compete
in vitality with a cold-blooded reptile. I shall content myself with falling back upon the
evidence already adduced. The disinterred bodies proved, by their appearance, some even by
their behaviour, that they were alive; and I shall retort upon you the question, how came you
not to know that bodies could live under such circumstances a considerable length of time,
and that many cases have transpired in which, totally apart from vampyrism, bodies have been
found turned over in the coffin, through efforts made by them, when, after their burial, they
had unhappily recovered consciousness?

But what, then, was the pathological condition in which these persons continued to exist, after
they had ceased to appear alive?

It is just one of the profitable results of examining the superstition before us, that the
above question becomes explicitly propounded, and its solution demanded of physiologists. Its
solution cannot fail of being full of interest, but it is yet, unluckily, a desideratum, or,
like the principle which gives motion to the divining rod, as yet only indicated and partially
outlined.

What is wanted is direct scientific examination, and verification by competent persons, of
all the phenomena the body presents in these strange circumstances. In the absence, however,
of recorded observation, let us imagine how the thing might come about.

The series of effects surmised would not begin in the heart; analogy leads us to suppose that
primary interruption of the heart's action for a very brief period is fatal. Somewhere in the
Indian seas, death is inflicted by a backward blow with the elbow on the region of the heart;
a sudden angina is produced, which is promptly fatal. Neither, upon similar showing, can it
commence in obstructed breathing. Then the commencement of the changes must be sought in the
brain. Now it is analogically by no means very improbable, that the functions of the nervous
system admit of being brought to a complete stand-still, the wheels of the machinery locking,
as it were, of a sudden, through some influence directly exerted upon it, and that this state
of interrupted function should continue for a very considerable period, without loss of power
of recovery. Nor would it be contrary to analogy that such an arrest of activity in the nervous
system should stop, more or less completely, the act of breathing and the action of the heart,
without at the same time the consequences following which result from either of these changes,
when they are primary. The heart, when not acting by order, need not be supposed to lose its
contractile force and tendency. The blood, though not moving, being in contact with living
vessels, need not coagulate. There is no physiological absurdity in supposing such a general
arrest of function, originating in the nervous system, and continuing an indefinite period
without life being extinguished. If a swimmer be taken with cramp and sink, he is irretrievably
dead in five minutes. But if he sink from a fit of epilepsy, he may remain a longer time under
water, yet recover. But epilepsy is a form of loss of consciousness beginning in the nervous
system--a kind of fit which may, under certain circumstances, be thus preservative of life.
So may we presume, that in the singular cases we are considering, the body is but in another
and deeper fit, which suspends the vital phenomena, and reduces its vitality to that of the
unincubated egg, to simple life, without change, without waste or renewal. The body does not
putrefy, because it is alive; it does not waste or require nourishment, because every action
is stilled within it.

But this must be a dull subject of speculation for you, and your mind is perhaps wandering
thence to more practical views. It has struck you possibly, not without an uncomfortable misgiving,
that this obscure, but unpleasant event may happen to yourself, and what on earth is there
to prevent your being buried alive?

If you wish individually to be as safe as possible, leave by will to some eminent surgeon,
not your habitual attendant, £50, and his railway expenses, &c., to be paid him for opening
your body, when you are certainly dead; £25 if he opens you, finds you alive, and succeeds
in sewing you up, and keeping you so; £200, on the contrary, to be expended in indicting him
for manslaughter if you die under his hands. I do not venture to affirm that with all these
precautions you would be perfectly safe. The eminent Vesalius, surgeon, and a favourite of
the Emperor Charles V., with all his experience and knowledge, was unlucky enough to open a
Spanish nobleman by mistake, while he was yet alive. The consequences, no doubt, were more
serious than they would be now. Vesalius hardly escaped the claws of the Inquisition, and died
during his expiatory pilgrimage to the Holy Land.

If, more comprehensively, you should wish to save others, as well as yourself, from this awful
risk, and have a friend in the legislature, urge him, or otherwise Mr Wakley, to move for the
insertion in any convenient bill a clause to appoint in every district a qualified officer
to license burials; he had better not be a practising doctor, but his office might embrace
necroscopic inquiries for the coroner, and the registrarship of births and deaths.

In either case, I would recommend you to offer publicly a premium of £500, to be paid at the
expiration of three years, for the best treatise upon the signs of death; the same being calculated
to form a useful body of instruction, as yet wanting, either for your private surgeon, or the
new officials.

In England, indeed, our decent respect for the dead, which leads us to postpone interment as
long as possible, is a tolerable security against being buried alive. The coffin is seldom
closed upon the remains, before decomposition has already commenced. That is death's certain
seal; nor, in the present state of our knowledge, special cases of course excepted, is it right
to consider life surely extinct, till the impress of that seal is perceptible to the senses.

On the Continent, generally, the interval observed before burial is far too short for safety.
They calculate that in France from twenty to thirty are annually interred alive, computing
from the number of those who, after supposed death, come to life before the funeral is completed.
I cannot help imagining that this seeming death must be much less frequent in England than
in some other countries; (is that owing to the more vigorous practice for which English medical
men are celebrated, they either cure or kill?) In Germany, interment is forbidden by law for
three days after death. And there is a curious and humane provision in the grave-houses attached
to the cemeteries of some of the principal towns: Bodies which are brought too soon, not having
performed the three days' quarantine, are received and lodged, being disposed upon tressles,
with rings on their toes and fingers which are attached to bell-pulls. The corpse thus, on
coming to itself, may have immediate attendance merely by ringing for it; some one is always
there on the watch. But the humanity of this arrangement, though perfect as long as it lasts,
is finite in duration. As soon as the seventy-two hours prescribed by law are expired, it is
another thing. The body is then legally dead, and must comport itself accordingly. At any rate,
it is at its own risk if it behaves otherwise than as a corpse, and gives itself any airs of
vitality. This is appalling enough, and would certainly justify any body, if it could, in getting
out at nights and turning vampyr.

And now, to return again to our inquiry. We have got thus far. The bodies found in the so-called
vampyr state are alive. They are in a sort of fit, the possible duration of which is undetermined.
The same fit may occur, and does occur continually, with no reference to the superstition of
vampyrism. But where the belief in vampyrism is rife, these fits are more prevalent, and spread
sometimes like an epidemic.

The question naturally follows, how is this malady, viewing it as one in these cases, propagated?

At such seasons, it is far from improbable that there is some physical cause in operation,
some meteorological influence perhaps, electrical or otherwise, disposing the system to be
a readier prey to the seizure. As certain constitutions of the year alter the blood and lead
to fever or cholera, why should not others render the nervous system irritable and proner to
derangement?

Then it is well known that fright will bring on certain kinds of fits--in women hysteric fits,
in the youth of either sex epileptic fits; and certainly no ghastlier terror can there be than
the accredited apprehension of vampyrism. And it deserves remark, that impressions upon the
mind are known to be capable of shaping particular kinds of fits, and especially of exciting
and determining the features of sensorial illusions, that seem adjuvants in vampyrism.

We are able to creep yet a step nearer to the mark. There is great reason to believe that some
human beings have had the power of throwing themselves into the state of seeming death, voluntarily.
In Gooch's surgical works, there is an account of a Colonel Townsend, who asserted this of
himself, and challenged Gooch to witness the performance. And you may read in the narrative
of Gooch, how he and two or three other competent witnesses saw Colonel Townsend dispose himself
to favour the invasion of this fit, and how he gradually fell into a state apparently devoid
of animation. A very few years ago there was a story in the papers of a native in India, who
undertook for a reward to do the same feat, and to allow himself to be buried for a stipulated
period. A gentleman, certainly not of a credulous turn in general, told me he was in India
at the time with his regiment; and, though not on the spot, that he knew the parties who brought
the conjuror to work; and that he believed they positively buried him, and, at the end of the
time agreed upon, disinterred him, and found him alive. But be this story true or false, the
case of Colonel Townsend remains to show the thing asserted to have been possible--and this
remark may be safely added: Whatever change of the kind the will can bring about, can be twice
as readily wrought by fear or a disturbed imagination.

You are, I hope, or fear rather, by this time satiated with the marvellous and with the subject.
What!--yet another question? Ay. How came this superstition to arise?

The answer is ready. In those days the belief in ghosts was absolute, and a vampyr was a sort
of ghost. When an ignorant person, that is, when any one in those days became the subject of
a sensorial illusion representing a human being, to a certainty he identified the creation
of his fancy as somebody he had seen or heard of; then he would tell his acquaintances that
the ghost of such a person haunted him. If the fright brought on a fit, or seemed to cause
his death, the neighbours would remember how he had before been haunted. Then, in any case,
what more natural than to disinter the body of a supposed visitant, to know why he is unquiet
in the grave? Then, if once a body so disinterred were found in the fresh and undecomposed
state, the whole delusion would start into existence. The violence used would force blood from
the corpse; and that would be construed into the blood of a victim. The absence of a scar on
the throat of the victim, would throw no difficulty in the way to the vampyr theory, because
vampyrs enjoyed the ghostly character, and all its privileges. Supposing, again, that at any
time chance had brought to light a body interred alive, and lying still in this fit, the whole
yarn of superstition might again have been spun from that clue.

Do you want more than this? I shall begin to think you at heart superstitious. I tell you it
is contrary to the rules of inductive logic, to look for, or to use more principles than are
sufficient for the reasonable explanation of phenomena. Yet you urge, do you, that it is no
less unphilosophical, in an obscure and unsettled inquiry, wholly to exclude the consideration
of unlikely possibilities?--Well! it is nothing to me. Have it your own way: suppose, if you
like, that the man in the grave had something to do with spreading the disease, and that his
nervous system, in its abnormal state, could put itself in relation with that of another person
at a distance. If you like it, have it so. In one sense, it simplifies the matter. But though
I cannot deny your supposition to be possible, you will excuse me if I profess to hold the
solution, which I have myself given, to be sufficient.

Well! there is an end of the subject, at all events; and I accept your thanks for having told
you all I know about vampyrism. I deserve them more than you are aware. At the churchyard in
Meduegna, my dear Archy, I had you thoroughly in my power. I saw how your curiosity was raised,
and that an picture I had drawn would have been accepted by you with avidity; and I must confess
it did at one moment occur to me, to describe to you the exact dress and deportment of the
three regimental surgeons, or Feldscherers, (a handsome word signifying field-barbers), John
Flickinger, Isaac Stegel, and John Fredrick Baumgartner, as well as the behaviour and remarks
of a drummer boy, who held the instrument case during the intermortem examination, an event
he witnessed for the first time. But I would not abuse my advantage; so I let you off cheaply
with the sole fabrication of Nina, and the personal characteristics of Arnod Paole, of whom
unfortunately nothing has come down to posterity, but that he was haunted by a vampyr at Cossova,
fell from a hay-cart at Meduegna, and died, and lived a vampyr himself.

    I remain, dear Archy,
            Yours, &c.
                  MAC DAVUS.

LETTER III.

SPIRITS, GOBLINS, GHOSTS.

Dear Archy.--On what subject shall I next address you? Elves, goblins, ghosts, real and unreal;
dreams, witchcraft, second-sight? Bless me! the field of marvels seems more thronged, as I
approach it closer. The spirits I have evoked begin to scare me with their numbers. How on
earth shall I ever get them fairly laid? But some, I see, can now only limp along--they are
scotched already; I will begin with finishing these. Yet they deserve gentle treatment. They
sprang from our nature, which seems expressly made to procreate and rear them. Thick, within
and around us, lie the rich veins of illusive suggestion from which they spring.

The thing nearest us is our mental constitution, the world of consciousness. It is of it we
first learn, though it be the last we understand. It is that through which we perceive and
apprehend all other things; and nothing becomes part of our knowledge but as it has been shaped
and coloured by its magic reflexion. Nay, more, it is not only our mirror but our archetype
for every thing. So we spiritualise the material universe, and afterwards, by an incongruous
consistency, anthropomorphise spirit.

Reason in vain reclaims against this misuse of analogy. Feeling, imagination, instinct are
too many for her; and any mood, from fun to earnest, from nonsense to sublimity, may hear a
responsive note when this chord is touched.

Address to that ingenuous young American a remark upon the slightness of the legs of her work-table,--she
blushes--her lively fancy has given them personality. Were she a wealthier miss, she would
give them, besides, neat cambric trowsers with lace borders. With less refinement, and with
inexcusable warmth, I take shame to myself for having bestowed a kick upon a similar mahogany
limb, which had, however, begun the contest by breaking my shin.

To the poet's eye, nature is instinct with life. Greece may be "living Greece no more"--in
the soul of her people; but her immortal plains, and streams, and hills have their own vitality.

    "The mountains look on Marathon,
    And Marathon looks on the sea."

You go to visit them; they meet you half-way: "spectatum veniunt."

Amid the Alps--with glacier, torrent, forest around--you still evoke the fancied spirit of
the scene, though it be but

    "To gaze upon her beauty--nothing more."

And where, in sublimer grandeur, snowclad, upreared against the nearer sun, are seen the towering
Andes; to the poet's eye, the Cordillera lies no huge backbone of earth; but lives, a Rhoetus
or Enceladus of the West, and

            "over earth, air, wave,
    Glares with his Titan eye."

This is but the calm, the dignified, the measured march of poetical conception. No wonder,
when superstition steps in to prick on imagination, that all should vividly team with spirit
life. Or that on Walpurgis' night, bush and streamlet and hill bustle and hurry, with unequal
pace, towards the haunted Brocken: the heavy ones lag, indeed, a little, and are out of breath--

    "The giant-snouted crags, ho! ho!
    How they snort and how they blow!"

No wonder that to the dreamer's eye, in tranquil scenes of sylvan solitude the fawn of yore
skipped in the forest dell, the dryad peeped from behind the shadowy oak, the fay tripped lightly
over the moonlit sward.

But enough, and too much, of "your philosophy." Yet there are those still who may be the wiser
for it. Let me sketch you a believer in the creed it would dispel.

He was a Spanish West-Indian--in his active years had been an extensive planter and slave-owner
in Porto Rico. His manners were grave and dignified, as due to himself; courteous, as not denying
equal or superior worth in others. He had seen the world, and spoke of it habitually with a
fine irony. We had many a walk together. He was nervous about his health. One day, as our path
lay along the banks of the Rhine, his conversation took this turn:--

"Do you believe in spirits?" he asked me; and upon my intimating the polite but qualified assent
which suited the tone in which the question was put--"It may be superstition," he continued,
"but I am often inclined to think that the pucks and goblins, which, as they say, once haunted
these scenes, are not entirely visionary beings. You may smile--but this has happened, nay,
often, happens, to me in my walks. I see a big clod before me in the path, and form the intention
of avoiding it; when close to it, I step to one side, when pr-r-rt, my toe strikes against it."

I edged slightly away from my companion with the disagreeable impression that he was gone mad.

He went on;--"When I lived in the West Indies, the children of the slaves, about my house,
were treated with great kindness and indulgence. They would come about my table at dessert,
and often had little presents given them. So they grew into objects of affection. But, out
of several, some, of course, took ill and died. I cannot tell you what grief it caused me.
Then this has happened several times, after the death of one or other of my little favourites:--a
bird has flown into the hall, and into my sitting-room, and has hovered near me, and, after
a while, has flown away. For a few days it has regularly returned, and then finally disappeared.
I thought it was tenanted by the spirit of my lost favourite, which had come to bid me farewell."

I drew nearer again to my companion. I felt I was in all events safe from violence from him.
And I contrasted, with humiliation, his beautiful superstition with the commonplace remembrance
of a school-boy conviction of my own, one dark night, upon Blackheath, that a direction-post
was a ghost.

My friend had not, indeed, always been a dreamer: and although this is no place to narrate
his course of daring and hazardous adventure, on which I am therefore silent, yet I wish to
be allowed to re-establish his credit for intelligence, by reporting the answer which he made,
on another occasion, to a question, as to what he thought of the emancipation of the Negroes
in our colonies. "The principle," answered my friend, "was good, but you were in too great
a hurry. Before giving them freedom, you should have made them fit for it. They were not impatient.
Slavery is an African institution. Some outlay of public money, and extreme care and prudence
in your measures, would have enabled you to secure their humane treatment in the interval.
As fast as they became innoculated with the wants and habits of civilised life, you might have
made freedmen of the most advanced, and given them official occupation, or allotted them land
under proper conditions. One sheep would have followed another. The fag-end you might have
emancipated together. Thirty or forty years, and a million of money, would have done the thing.
The results would have been, from first to last, beneficial to the colonists. It would have
set an example which other nations could have followed. It would have been a noble return for
having, temporarily, used the race as unmitigated slaves. It would have been an act of enlightened
philanthropy. It would have become statesmen. What you did reads and works like the puerile
suggestion of a school-boy's theme. What you are further doing, to suppress, by force, the
trade in slaves, would have been worthy my distinguished countryman whose biography has immortalised
Cervantes. Humanity would smile at it, but that she shudders and sickens."

But, to leave the region of dreams, which are no longer realisable, let us shift the scene.

The churchyard has its nightly terrors. One heard of corpse-lights seen dancing over graves--but
over some alone. A few only had witnessed this; but they had no doubt on the matter. Things
looked "uncanny;" but time did not pause, and the story was forgotten. Even when the tale was
fresh, what was it but superstition? Who of those who hugged its sympathetic terrors by the
Christmas fireside, thought they could be true on the bright frosty morning of the morrow?
It was mere fancy. There was nothing in it. Yet there was something. And now and then a striking
and mysterious event would occur to bring back the old idea. There was a cottage, (this I heard
of a certainty,) in a hamlet I could name, to which a bad report attached. A room in it was
haunted. More than one who had slept there had seen, at midnight, the luminous apparition of
a little child standing upon the hearth-stone. At length suspicion became active. The hearth-stone
was raised, and there were found, buried beneath it, the remains of an infant. A story was
now divulged, how the former tenant and a female of the neighbourhood had, a very few years
before, abruptly left the village. The apparition here was real and significant enough.

But tales like these, though true, gradually lose the sharpness of their evidence for want
of an accredited contemporary narrator, and so become valueless. But time brings round every thing.

And at length a marvellous narrative, to the same effect with the above, made its appearance
in a trustworthy German work, P. Kieffer's Archives, the complete authentication of which caused
it to make a deep impression. The narrative was communicated by Herr Ehrman of Strasburg, the
son-in-law of the well-known German writer Pfeffel, from whom he received it.

The ghost-seer was a young candidate for orders, eighteen years of age, of the name of Billing.
He was known to have very excitable nerves,--had already experienced sensorial illusions, and
was particularly sensitive to the presence of human remains, which made him tremble and shudder
in all his limbs. Pfeffel, being blind, was accustomed to take the arm of this young man, and
they walked thus together in Pfeffel's garden, near Colmar. At one spot in the garden Pfeffel
remarked, that his companion's arm gave a sudden start, as if he had received an electric shock.
Being asked what was the matter, Billing replied, "nothing." But, on their going over the same
spot again, the same effect recurred. The young man being pressed to explain the cause of his
disturbance, avowed that it arose from a peculiar sensation which he always experienced when
in the vicinity of human remains; that it was his impression a human body must be interred
there; but that if Pfeffel would return with him at night, he should be able to speak with
more confidence. Accordingly, they went to the garden together when it was dark, and as they
approached the spot, Billing observed a faint light over it. At two paces from it, he stopped
and would go no further; for he saw hovering over it, or self-supported in the air, its feet
only a few inches from the ground, a luminous female figure, nearly five feet high, with the
right arm folded on her breast, the left hanging by her side. When Pfeffel himself stepped
forward and placed himself about where the figure was, Billing said it was now on his right
hand, now on his left, now behind, now before him. When Pfeffel cut the air with his stick,
it seemed as if it went through and divided a light flame, which then united again. The visit,
repeated the next night, in company with some of Pfeffel's relatives, gave the same result.
They did not see any thing. Pfeffel, then, unknown to the ghost-seer, had the ground dug up,
when there was found at some depth, beneath a layer of quicklime, a decomposing human body.
The remains were removed, and the earth carefully replaced. Three days afterwards, Billing,
from whom this whole proceeding had been kept concealed, was again led to the spot by Pfeffel.
He walked over it now without experiencing any unusual impression whatever.

This extraordinary phenomenon, it is now generally known, has been completely elucidated through
the discoveries of Von Reichenbach, to which, in a former letter, I had occasion to make allusion.

You are probably aware, that the individuals whose nerves Von Reichenbach found to be so sensitive
to the proximity of crystals, magnets, &c., would, in the dark, see flames issuing from the
same substances. Then, in the progress of his inquiries, Von Reichenbach found that chemical
decomposition was a rich source of the new power he had discovered, by its action on the nerves.
And being acquainted with the story of the ghost in Pfeffel's garden at Colmar, it occurred
to him as not unlikely, that Billing had just been in the same condition with his own sensitive
patients, and that graves very likely would present to all of them a luminous aura; and that
thus the mystery might find a very simple explanation.

Accordingly, Miss Reichel, one of his most sensitive subjects, was taken at night to an extensive
burying-ground, near Vienna, where many interments take place daily, and there were some thousand
graves. The result did not disappoint Von Reichenbach's expectations. Whithersoever Miss Reichel
turned her eyes, she saw masses of flame. This appearance manifested itself most about recent
graves. About very old ones it was not visible. She described the appearance as resembling
less bright flame than fiery vapour, something between fog and flame. In several instances,
the light extended four feet in height above the ground. When Miss Reichel placed her hand
in it, it seemed to her involved in a cloud of fire. When she stood in it, it came up to her
throat. She expressed no alarm, being accustomed to the appearance.

The mystery has thus been entirely solved. For it is evident that the spectral character of
the luminous apparition in the two instances I have narrated had been supplied by the imagination
of the seers. So the superstition has vanished, leaving, as is usual, a very respectable truth
behind it.

It is indeed a little unlucky for this new truth, which reveals either a new power in nature
or an unexpected operation of familiar ones, that the phenomena which attest it are verifiable
by a few only who are possessed of highly sensitive temperaments. And it is the use of the
world to look upon these few as very suspicious subjects. This is unjust. Their evidence, the
parties having otherwise a character for honesty, should be accepted with the same faith and
the same distrust with which all evidence is to be viewed; with neither more nor less than
in other cases. Nothing should be received in scientific inquiry which it is not compulsory
on our understanding to believe. It is not a whit more difficult in these than in other cases
to obtain inductive certainty. Nature is not here peculiarly coy or averse from being interrogated.

Philosophers occasionally regret the limited number of their senses, and think a world of knowledge
would flow from their possessing but one more. Now, persons of highly-wrought nervous systems
have what is equivalent to a new sense, in their augmentation of natural sensibility. But philosophers
will not accept this equivalent. They must have the boon from nature their own way, or not at all.

To turn elsewhere.--We may now look into a broader seam of illusive power--one which lies entirely
within ourselves, and needs no objective influence to bring its ghost-producing fertility into
play. Let me exemplify it in operation.

A young gentleman, who has recently left Oxford, told me, that he was one evening at a supper-party
in college, when they were joined by a common friend on his return from hunting. They expected
him, but were struck with his appearance. He was pale and agitated. On questioning him, they
learned the cause. During the latter part of his ride home, he had been accompanied by a horseman,
who kept exact pace with him, the rider and horse being facsimiles of himself and the steed
he rode, even to the copy of a newfangled bit he sported that day for the first time. The apparition
vanished on his entering the town. He had, in fact, seen his double or fetch, and it had shaken
his nerves pretty considerably. His friends advised him to consult the college tutor, who failed
not to give him some good advice, and hoped the warning would not be thrown away. My informant,
who thought the whole matter very serious, and was disposed to believe the unearthly visit
to have been no idle one, added, that it had made the ghost-seer, for the time at all events,
a wiser and better man.

In more ignorant times, the appearance of one's fetch was held to be of very alarming import,
and to menace either death or serious personal harm. Now, it is known to be one of the commonest
forms in which sensorial illusions shape themselves. And these are matters of every-day occurrence.

It would seem, that when the blood is heated or the nervous system over-strained, we are liable
to attach reality to the mere productions of the imagination. There must be few who have not
had personal experience of this affection. In the first night of a febrile attack, and often
in the progress of fever, the bed-hangings appear to the patient swarming with human faces,
generally of a disagreeable and menacing expression. With some, opium will produce a host of
similar visitants. In much illness, I have often myself taken this drug, and always hoped it
would provide me a crop of apparitions that I might analyse. But I was disappointed; opium
I found to give me only a great tranquillity and clearness of thought. Once or twice only have
I had a vision, and that but a transitory landscape. I used in vain to look upon that black
mixture which lies before one in the dark, and try to make its fragmentary lights arrange themselves
into definite shapes. And I have imaged to my mind familiar scenes or faces, (as in the daytime
a strong conception will half realise such,) but they were not more distinct then than formerly,--ideas
only and perfectly transient. But, as I have said, once or twice I have had the satisfaction
of seeing a bright and coloured landscape spread before my view; yet unlike reality, and more
resembling a diorama, occupying a rectangle on the black mixture before my eyes. It was not
a known and familiar scene, but a brilliant sketch, made out of materials I remembered, but
could not by a deliberate effort have combined so effectively. It was a spontaneous throe of
the imagination, which had force to overpersuade the organs of perception.

How well did Shakspeare understand this creative power of the fancy!--the air-drawn dagger
of Macbeth, and his test--"come, let me clutch thee!" are physiologically perfect. Nor less
perfect or true to nature, is the conception of the ghost of Banquo haunting the kingly murderer.
The ghost, it is obvious, however, should not in the play appear bodily. The audience are in
the position of the guests at the royal supper-table, who saw it not. I wonder how in Shakspeare's
time the stage-directions ran upon this point. Probably as now. Though Shakspeare wrote for
all times, he was probably wise enough to act for the present. Or perhaps, with no disrespect
to his unequalled genius, he understood not the principles of which he exactly portrayed the
workings, and was, like Shelley's poet,

    "Hidden in the light of thought."

So, some say the sun may be dark as another planet; and that the spots on it are its common
earth seen through the gaps in its luminous atmosphere.

To the world, the alpha and omega of this piece of philosophy were furnished by the publication
of the case of Nicolai, the bookseller of Berlin. Its details were read before the Academy
of Sciences at Berlin, in 1799. The substance ran thus. Nicolai had had some family troubles
which much annoyed him. Then, on the 21st of February 1791, there stood before him, at the
distance of ten paces, the ghost of his eldest son. He pointed at it, directing his wife to
look. She saw it not, and tried to convince him that it was an illusion. In a quarter of an
hour it vanished. In the afternoon, at four o'clock, it came again. Nicolai was alone. He went
to his wife's room--the ghost followed him. About six other apparitions joined the first, and
they walked about, among, and through each other. After some days the apparition of his son
stayed away; but its place was filled with the figures of a number of persons, some known,
some unknown to Nicolai--some of dead, others of living persons. The known ones were distant
acquaintances only. The figures of none of Nicolai's habitual friends were there. The appearances
were almost always human: exceptionally, a man on horseback, with dogs and birds would present
themselves. The apparitions came mostly after dinner, at the commencement of digestion. They
were just like real persons; the colouring a thought fainter. The apparitions were equally
distinct whether Nicolai was alone or in society, by day as in the dark, in his own house or
those of others; but in the latter case they were less frequent, and they very seldom presented
themselves in the streets. During the first eight days they seemed to take very little notice
of each other, but walked about like people at a fair, only here and there communing with each
other. They took no notice of Nicolai, or of his remarks about them to his wife and physician.
No effort of his would dismiss them, or bring an absent one back. When he shut his eyes, they
sometimes disappeared, sometimes remained; when he opened his eyes, they were there as before.
After a week they became more numerous, and began to converse. They conversed with each other,
and then addressed him. Their remarks were short and unconnected, but sensible and civil. His
acquaintances inquired after his health, and expressed sympathy for him, and spoke in terms
comforting him. The apparitions were most conversible when he was alone; nevertheless they
mingled in the conversation when others were by, and their voices had the same sound as those
of real persons. This illusion went on thus from the 24th of February to the 20th of April;
so that Nicolai, who was in good bodily health, had time to become tranquillised about them,
and to observe them at his ease. At last they rather amused him. Then the doctors thought of
an efficient plan of treatment. They prescribed leeches: and then followed the denouement to
this interesting representation. The apparitions became pale and vanished. On the 20th of April,
at the time of applying the leeches, Nicolai's room was full of figures moving about among
each other. They first began to have a less lively motion; shortly afterwards their colours
became paler--in another half hour fainter still, though the forms still remained. About seven
o'clock in the evening, the figures had became colourless, and they moved scarcely at all,
but their outline was still tolerably perfect. Gradually that became less and less defined.
At last they disappeared, breaking into air, fragments only remaining, which at last all vanished.
By eight o'clock all were gone, and Nicolai subsequently saw no more of them.

Other cases are on record in which there was still greater facility of ghost-production than
Nicolai evinced. One patient could, for instance, by thinking of a person, summon his apparition
to join the others. He could not, however, having done this, subsequently banish him. The sight
is the sense most easily and frequently tricked; next, the hearing. In some extraordinary cases
the touch, also, has participated in the delusion.

Herr von Baczko, already subject to visual hallucinations, of a diseased nervous system, his
right side weak with palsy, his right eye blind, and the vision of the left imperfect, was
engaged one evening, shortly after the battle of Jena, as he tells us in his autobiography,
in translating a brochure into Polish, when he felt a poke in his loins. He looked round, and
found that it proceeded from a Negro or Egyptian boy, seemingly about twelve years of age.
Although he was persuaded the whole was an illusion, he thought it best to knock the apparition
down, when he felt that it offered a sensible resistance. The Negro then attacked him on the
other side, and gave his left arm a particularly disagreeable twist, when Baczko pushed him
off again. The Negro continued to visit him constantly during four months, preserving the same
appearance, and remaining tangible; then he came seldomer; and, after finally appearing as
a brown-coloured apparition with an owl's head, he took his leave.

The illusion and its principle having been thus elucidated, it is hardly worth while to look
into its operation in tales of vulgar terror. But it is highly interesting to trace its effects
on minds of a high order, when its suggestions have been received and interpreted as the visits
and communications of superior beings. You have heard, I dare say, my dear Archy, of the mysticism
of Schwedenborg. Now that they are explained, the details of his hallucinations are highly
gratifying to one's curiosity.

Schwedenborg, the son of a Swedish clergyman of the name of Schwedberg, ennobled as Schwedenborg,
was, up to the year 1743, which was the fifty-fourth of his age, an ordinary man of the world,
distinguished only in literature, having written many volumes of philosophy and science, and
being Professor in the Mineralogical school, where he was much respected. On a sudden, in the
year 1743, he believed himself to have got into a commerce with the world of spirits, which
so fully took possession of his thoughts, that he not only published their revelations, but
was in the habit of detailing, with the greatest equanimity, his daily chat with them. Thus
he says, "I had a conversation the other day on that very point with the Apostle Paul," or
with Luther, or some other dead person. Schwedenborg continued in what he believed to be daily
communion with spirits till his death, in 1772. He was, without doubt, in the fullest degree
convinced of the reality of his spiritual commerce. So in a letter to the Wirtemburg prelate,
Oetinger, dated November 11, 1766, he uses the following words:--"If I have spoken with the
Apostles? To this I answer, I conversed with St Paul during a whole year, particularly on the
text, Romans iii. 28. I have three times conversed with St John, once with Moses, and a hundred
times with Luther, who allowed that it was against the warning of an angel that he professed
'fidem solam,' and that he stood alone upon the separation from the Pope. With angels, finally,
have I these twenty-two years conversed, and converse daily.

"Of the angels," he says, "they have human forms, the appearance of men that I have a thousand
times seen; for I have spoken with them as a man with other men, often with several together;
and have seen nothing in the least to distinguish them from ordinary men." [They had evidently
just the appearance of Nicolai's visitors.] "Lest any one should call this an illusion, or
imaginary perception, it is to be understood that I am accustomed to see them, when perfectly
myself wide awake, and in full exercise of my observation. The speech of an angel or of a spirit
sounds like, and as loud as, that of a man, but it is not heard by the bystanders; the reason
is, that the speech of an angel or a spirit finds entrance first into a man's thoughts, and
reaches his organs of hearing from within outwards." This is indeed cum ratione insanire! how
just an analysis of the illusion, when he is most deceived by it!

"The angels who converse with men, speak not in their own language, but in the language of
men, and likewise in other languages which are inwardly known to man, not in languages which
he does not understand." Schwedenborg here took up the angels, and to explain their own ideas
to them observed, that they most likely appeared to speak his mother tongue, because, in fact,
it was not they who spoke, but himself by their suggestion. The angels held out, however, and
went away unconvinced.

"When approaching, the angels often appear like a ball of light; and they travel in companies
so grouped together--they are allowed so to unite by the Lord--that they may act as one being,
and share each others' ideas and knowledge; and in this form they bound through the universe,
from planet to planet."

I will, in conclusion, add another different, but equally interesting sketch.

"It is now seven years ago," so spoke, before her judges, the simple, but high-minded Joan
of Arc--"the beginning of the year 1431; it was a summer day, towards the middle hour, I was
about thirteen years old, and was in my father's garden, that I heard for the first time, on
my right hand towards the church, a voice, and there stood a figure in a bright radiance before
my eyes. It had the appearance and look of a right good and virtuous man, bore wings, was surrounded
with light on all sides, and by the angels of Heaven. It was the Archangel Michael. The voice
seemed to me to command respect; but I was yet a child, and was frightened at the figure, and
doubted very much whether it was the archangel! I saw him and the angels as distinctly before
my eyes as I now see you, my judges." With words of encouragement the archangel answered to
her, that God had taken pity upon France, and that she must hasten to the assistance of the
king. At the same time he promised her that St Catherine and St Margaret would shortly visit
her; he told her that she should do what they commanded her, because they were sent by God
to guide and conduct her. "Upon this," continued Joan, "St Catherine and St Margaret appeared
to me, as the angel had foretold. They ordered me to get ready to go to Robert de Beaudricourt,
the king's captain. He would several times refuse me, but at last would consent, and give me
people, who would conduct me to the king. Then should I raise the siege of Orleans. I replied
to them that I was a poor child, who understood nothing about riding on horseback and making
war. They said I should carry my banner with courage; God would help me, and win back for my
king his entire kingdom. As soon as I knew," continued Joan, "that I was to proceed on this
errand, I avoided, as much as I could, afterwards taking part in the sports and amusements
of my young companions."----"So have the Saints conducted me during seven years, and have given
me support and assistance in all my need and labours; and now at present," said she to her
judges, "no day goes by, but they come to me."----"I seldom see the Saints that they are not
surrounded with a halo of light; they wear rich and precious crowns, as it is reasonable they
should. I see them always under the same forms, and have never found in their discourse any
discrepancies. I know how to distinguish one from the other, and distinguish them as well by
the sound of their voices as by their salutation. They come often without my calling upon them.
But when they do not come, I pray to the Lord that he will send them to me; and never have
I needed them but they have visited me."

Such is part of the defence of the high-spirited Joan of Arc, who was taken prisoner by the
Duke of Burgundy on the 23d of May 1430--sold by him for a large sum to the English, and by
them put on her trial as a heretic, idolatress, and magician--condemned, and finally burned
alive, the 30th of May 1431. Ill-fated heroine! I seem to be thinking of writing her epitaph,
but I am considering only that there is more to come out of her evidence. For although her
heavenly visitants were simply sensorial illusions, there yet remains something unexplained.
How came she to foresee the path she was destined to follow? The inquiry would launch us on
a broad and wild sea of conjecture, for the navigation of which we have not yet the requisite
charts on board, and it grows late--so good-night, dear Archy.

    "Suadentque cadentia sidera somnum."
        "Cras ingens iterabimus æquor."

    Yours, &c.,
            MAC DAVUS.

A NEW SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY.

THE BATHS OF MONT DOR.

There is a tremendous valley opening all the way down, from the central summits of the ridge
of the Monts Dor, quite into the undulating, and thence into the flat country, lying westward
of this mountain chain. Where the valley commences, it is nothing more than a combination of
mountain gullies, and is like a wild and precipitous ravine; but by degrees it widens out into
spacious amphitheatres, and at times contracts itself again so as barely to allow of a struggling
river to make its way betwixt the rocky sides. In some places, the valley makes a straight
reach four or five miles in extent, but in others, winds and turns about in abrupt and varied
curves; its descent is now gradual, and now rapid, where the stream dashes over ledges of rock
or cuts its way through some rough and stubborn pass. Nearly all the ravines and smaller valleys
that open into it bring down their contributions of mountain torrents; and the whole collection
of waters, thus wending their way to the ocean, form what is called the Dor. This river meets
with the Dogne lower down in its course; and, under the joint name of the two waters, the flood
rushes broad and strong through Guienne into the Gironde. The high and bare mountain whence
the Dor derives its principal source is the Pic de Sancy, the loftiest hill in the middle of
France; it is the king of all the volcanoes of this vast igneous chain, and has its sides deeply
furrowed and excavated into immense craters or volcanic vents. From it proceed numerous branches
or arms, composed of basaltic currents congealed into columnar masses in the early days of
the world. These stretch out league after league, away from their parent head, and present
on their tops vast plateaux of green and moory pasture-land; while their sides are either abrupt
precipices of basaltic columns, or else are clothed with primeval forests, which have sprung
up and still flourish on the rich materials of their decomposing slopes. The valley of the
Dor is therefore shut in either by precipitous volcanic walls, or is guarded by sombre woods.
Once on the tops of the plateaux, and you may ride a whole day on unbroken turf; or, if you
penetrate within the forest lands, you may wander for any time you please, days or weeks, without
seeing either their beginning or their end. On the summits of the mountains around, snow is
to be found in patches, even in the hottest days of summer; and as the Pic de Sancy is more
than six thousand feet above the level of the sea, almost every gradation of climate is to
be found amongst these lonely hills. In the dog-days, the valleys are so hot that you gladly
escape to the upper lands for air and coolness; but the winter sets in, in October, and the
valley of the Dor is then covered deep with snow for many a long month. The Dor itself is a
pleasant lively stream: it can boast of some picturesque falls here and there, but it is commonly
a "brawling brook," winding about at its pleasure; allowing itself to be forded every now and
then; and producing plenty of small trout for those who like to waste their time in fishing.

The urchins of the peasant tribe know how to get these finny creatures more cannily than the
professed angler; you may see them on a summer's morning wading up the stream, and hunting
under every stone, and in each little pool, for the objects of their search. As soon as they
see a trout, they drive it into little convenient nooks that they know of, and there--how they
manage it nobody knows, but the result is certain--they catch them with their hands or knock
them on the head with their sticks; and will always produce you a respectable dish at a few
hours' notice.

About a couple of leagues below the Pic de Sancy, towards the west, one of the plateaux on
the northern side of the valley assumes an exceedingly bold and regular appearance; it is called
the Plateau de l'Angle--perhaps from its making, by an abrupt termination, the corner of two
valleys; and it towers out like a promontory at sea, soaring some four or five hundred feet
above the bed of the river. Not very far from where this plateau is cut off--a mile or so--there
is a bold cascade dashing over its side, and carrying off the superfluous waters of a pool
and morass higher up in the bosom of the mountains. Here the basaltic precipice is hollowed
out into a circling chasm, and over its black face rushes the impetuous stream upon a huge
chaos of rocks and debris below, foaming and roaring until it finds its way into the Dor far
down in the valley at its foot. A few hundred feet to the westward of this cascade, and at
the lowest part of the precipitous columnar cliff, burst forth several copious fountains of
hot mineral waters, half-way to boiling heat when they leave their rocky cells, and ever keeping
up the same degree both of heat and quantity. These are the springs which give celebrity to
the place, and constitute the baths of Mont Dor.

The Romans--those true "rerum domini"--knew of the spot, as they did of most other good things
within their wide empire; and they frequented these springs so much that they erected over
them a magnificent bathing establishment, and adorned the spot with a beautiful temple. In
the midst of the present village stand the remains of one and the other of their buildings;
and thus the hydropathic system of the ancients is allied with the practice of the modern Académie
de Médecine. No records of the destruction, nor indeed of the existence, of this Roman watering-place
have been preserved; probably, the buildings fell into natural decay, and during the middle
ages were allowed to remain unrepaired and unheeded. Only foundations, broken shafts of columns,
cornices, capitals, and altars are now discernible; but they are enough to add greatly to the
interest of the locality.

At Saint Nectaire, two leagues further down the valley, and indeed at other spots in it, thermal
sources not much inferior to those of Mont Dor are to be met with; the whole district bears
intimate evidence of its volcanic nature, and the rheumatic or dyspeptic invalid may here get
stewed or washed out to his full satisfaction and lasting benefit.

The village of Mont Dor-les-Bains is, however, that which has been selected by the beau monde
of France as one of their choicest places of resort; and here public money has been added to
the efforts of private speculation in order to render the baths at once ample and commodious.
Over the best sources is erected a large edifice, the lower story of which is occupied by halls,
and bathing-rooms for every variety of medical purpose; while above are assembly-rooms, and
the apartments of the Government physician.

The distribution below is most convenient. The water, after issuing from the rock, is conveyed
by distinct channels into numerous baths contained in small chambers on either side of a large
central hall: while other conduits take it to plunging and swimming baths, to douches, and
to other medical contrivances. In the small single baths you receive the water piping hot from
the rock, at about one hundred degrees of Fahrenheit; and you may lie there, bolling away--for
a constant supply of the same natural water keeps running into and through your bath--for hours
together, upon payment of a franc. The water costs nothing; the building has been erected at
the public expense, and the visitor therefore enjoys this luxury at a moderate rate. For the
poorer class of patients gratuitous baths are provided; and in fact the gifts of nature are
here grudged to no one, but every man's wants may be gratified in a liberal manner.

By four o'clock in the morning of a summer day, you may see a train of ghost-like beings winding
along the village street, clad in the simple attire of a chemise, a blanket, and the eternal
nightcap--lean, sallow-faced, or crippled mortals, who have had the wise precaution to undress
at home, and not being afraid of shocking the wood-nymphs from their propriety, sally forth
to court the Goddess of Health. They congregate in a dark cellar-like chamber, round an ample
and steaming pool, and then sink into it, to forget for a while all their pains and maladies,
and to enjoy that indescribably delightful sensation of having the joints gently unscrewed
and fresh oiled. Others, whose shoulders and backs have known the pangs of lumbago and acute
rheumatism, are put under one of the douches; and down comes on them a discharge of the hot
fluid as if from the hose of a fire-engine, or as though shot out from some bursting steam-boiler.
Away fly the pains and troubles of humanity; the rickety machine is put in order for that day
at least, and twenty-four hours of peaceful enjoyment is the almost invariable consequence.

Later on in the morning, the fashionable visitors crawl forth to the baths; but not so late
that nine o'clock does not see them all safely housed again after their ablutions, shaving
or curling away with might and main to get ready for a grand déjeuner. For here, as at Bath,
not only is it well to remember the inscription,--

    "[Greek: ariston men udôr]"

but it would be advisable to add,

    "[Greek: Brôma de megistôn]:"

seeing that the appetite which is got up by all this early rising, and steaming, and washing,
is doomed to be satisfied in a way fully worthy of the most refined French cuisine.

In the village there are numerous hotels and boarding-houses, capable of suiting the pockets
and the wishes of all the middling, and even of the lower classes of society:--but there are
three or four principal houses,--and especially two, reserved for the aristocracy; and here
all the élite of the visitors congregate. We wealthy English may laugh at the moderate expense
for which this kind of thing can be done in France, but we are not apt to grumble at it when
we find it suit our pockets; and, therefore, take with you at once the description of the kind
of fare you are likely to meet with here, and the amount of damage it will do to your fortune.
In these large hotels, then, which are commodious houses, a vast number of bedrooms are provided
for the guests, and two good reception-rooms; besides an immense salle-à-manger. Some sixty
or a hundred guests can be accommodated in each house, and can sit down at table together.
Breakfast is served between nine and ten,--and a glorious breakfast it is! All kinds of good
things, which an old artiste from Paris comes down for the season to cook: ending with fruits
of many kinds and café-au-lait--that Continental beverage which John Bull can no more imitate
than he can the wines of the Rhone or the Rhine:--in short, 'tis as good a breakfast as they
could put on the table at Verey's. Dinner is ready at six, and maintains its proper superiority
over the breakfast, both in the number of dishes and in the length of its service. The wines
are good, and the fruits delicious, for they all come from Clermont--whence many a wagon-load
of comestibles is tugged weekly over the mountains to satisfy the exigencies of the fastidious
invalids!

Well: they give you these two glorious spreads, your room, your light, your linen, and your
attendance, for five francs a-day.

And how is this day passed? Why, 'tis a true castle of indolence, is Mont Dor-les-Bains; "a
pleasing land of sleepy-head," where every one follows the bent of his own fancy, and where
the only serious occupation is, to forget all care and to do nothing. After rising from the
breakfast table, parties are immediately formed for the promenade or the distant excursion;
and, for the latter, some two or three score of boys and girls are stationed on the Grande
Place, each in charge of an animal disguised with the name of a horse, which you hire for the
whole day, to go where, and how far you please, for the enormous sum of two francs. It is true
that the animal has neither symmetry nor blood, but it is the indigenous pony of these mountains;
it is a slow, sure-footed beast, and it will carry you up and down the steepest hill-side with
exemplary patience and sagacity. Do not lose your own patience, however, if you mount one of
them. They have no trotting, nor galloping, nor any other pace whatever in them, out of the
half-amble half-walk at which they commonly proceed. But then, they know no better food than
mountain-grass, or the occasional luxury of some chopped straw, and they will follow you all
round the village for a slice of bread held before their noses. Nevertheless they suit the
country; they accommodate the visitors; and there is not a spare horse to be got in the village
by half-past ten, for love or money.

The day's ramble ended, and dinner duly dismissed, every body--that is to say, every body who
is any body at all--adjourns to the salle de réunion, the large assembly-room built over the
baths. This is really a handsome well-arranged ball-room, full of mirrors, ottomans, and benches;
at one end is a billiard and card room, and behind are rooms for robing. Here, upon the payment
of a napoleon, you have the entrée for the season; and here the guests meet, more upon the
terms of a large family than as though they were strangers. Etiquette is relaxed; every body
knows every body. The elder men take to billiards and écarté,--the graver ladies form into
little côteries; a younger one goes to the piano, a circle is made, a romance is sung; and
then, as the strain becomes lighter, the feet beat in sympathy, and the gay quadrille is formed.
At eight or nine o'clock the room is at its fullest; the village minstrels are called in--some
half-dozen violins, a clarionet, and a cornet; the music becomes louder, the mazy waltz is
danced, and the enjoyment of the day is at its crowning point.

Happy, happy days! still happier, still more delightful nights! No trouble, no excess--health
and cheerfulness going hand-in-hand. The most refined society in France, and yet the most simple
and most unaffected; good-humour and politeness ruling all things: all calculated for enjoyment,
nought for disquietude and regret!

At eleven o'clock it is understood that every body vacates the room; and, within half an hour
after, not a sound is to be heard in the village, save the dash of the cascade, and the murmuring
of the silvery Dor.

THE COMPANY.

Well: 'tis a motley assemblage this! The world is checkered here not less than in the noisy
and elegant capital; and man's peculiarities, man's excellencies, and man's defects, follow
him even into the heart of these wild mountains, showing themselves in these smaller groups,
not less strongly than amid the crowded streets of Paris! How should it be otherwise? Does
not every one come hither to unbend, to throw off the stiff mask of metropolitan society for
the moment, and to become themselves natural while they invoke the aid of nature's healthy
influence? The strict etiquette of the Faubourg St Germain may here be safely laid aside awhile;
and the inspirations of country life, the happy the delightful inspirations of youth, may be
once more resumed. What a comfort to be able to get out of the buckram and taffetas of the
court, to put on one's négligé, or one's shooting-jacket, and to keep company awhile with no
less cheerful companions than the songsters and the rangers of the forest! Why it does one's
inmost soul good to fly away from the din and turmoil, even of the pleasure-seeking Parisians,
and to revert to the simple, yet grand and expansive ideas which scenery such as this of Mont
Dor brings into the mind in an instant.

True: the mountains increase in magnitude and grandeur as you approach them; once within their
lofty and austere recesses, and their sublimity makes itself felt. You are brought into immediate
contact with some of the mightiest works of the Creator, and the mind expands of itself, unconsciously
and irresistibly, till it becomes capable of imbibing, of comprehending, and of enjoying the
full magnificence of nature!

But does the courtier, does the citizen lay aside his pack of habits, as well as his pack of
cares, when he becomes a temporary denizen of the country? Would that it were so! He is cast
in a mould--his mind has been warped: his body requires moistening with the freshest and the
earliest dews of many an "incense-breathing morn," ere it can resume the full elasticity and
joyous lightness of rustic activity; and his soul wants a long oblivion of all conventional
preoccupation, all trouble and all intrigue, ere it can recover the tone and temper of younger
days.

Now, I had been saying all this to myself, and should have gone on moralising till the weary
hour of noon, perhaps; but while I was leaning over the balustrade of my window, looking down
into the Grande Place----Oh yes, to be sure! there is a Grande Place at Mont Dor-les-Bains,
as well as at any other town, village, or city. Did you ever in your life hear or see any thing
French to which the epithet of Grand had not been, by some means or other, tacked on? From
the Grand Monarque at the head of the Grande Armée of the Grande Nation, down to the Grand
limonadier of the Grand Café of the Grande Place, it is all Grand. Oh, this villanous spirit
of exaggeration! this attempt at the sublime so inevitably linked to the ridiculous!----Just
so! I was leaning over the balustrade of my window, which, from the third story of the hotel,
"gave," as they term it, into the Grande Place. Now it is one of the most delightful things
imaginable, after you have indulged in your morning's ablutions, and have produced that indefinable
lilac tint on your chin, which tells of easy shaving soap and a Rogers's true old English razor,
to don your shawl dressing-gown, and, having adjusted your bonnet grec towards the right side
of your head, so as to allow the glossy curl to escape and hang pendant on the left; when all
this is done, to "light the brown cigar," to put yourself in an elegant reclining posture between
your opening jalousies, and, with both elbows resting on the red velvet cushion that crowns
the hard edge of the balustrade, to puff forth light wreaths of blue vapour into the balmy
air, and to see the bathers come back from the baths. There you may "think down hours to moments:"
and so was it with myself; for I took my post at my window by half-past six, and at nine I
was still there. Every now and then went forth my curling column; then my eye would catch the
glorious "mountain-tops bathed in the golden light of morn;" then I would give a glance at
sublunary things awhile, and speculate on the moving animals below; then puff, and gaze, and
speculate again; and all that while be the happiest of men, in the absolute absence of any
thing but perfect idleness.

You may say what you please, but it does the mind good to think of nothing at times; to let
the impressions of passing events glide through the soul, and titillate the imagination, but
to "leave no trace behind." Oh yes! this fairy dancing on the sands of life's dull shore, is
very pleasant occupation for a summer morn, and eke a summer eve. It is poetical, to say the
least of it; and day-dreams may sometimes prove not less agreeable than those mysterious scenes
of night, when the soul quits her corporeal shackles, and roams in pure fancy through the world
of thought, seeing sights of beauty, and scenes of paradisaical splendour, which the dull organs
of bodily vision can never attain unto. Why! the happiest portion of my life is that which
I have passed in the land of dreams: one third of my existence has been spent there--and I
have friends, and well-known faces, and peaceful valleys, and bright streams, and strains of
ethereal music, which are still and ever vivid in my waking mind, but at night call me to themselves,
and wrap me in a state of enjoyment which certainly this poor weak body of mind never could
be capable of experiencing. I have positively new, altogether new and unheard-of ideas--I do
not mean irrational ones, nor those phantasmagoric combinations that haunt the diseased brains
of some wretched mortals--but reasonable, possible, natural ideas of form and substance, which
I am persuaded have their types in some corner or other of the universe, and which it may perhaps
be hereafter my too happy destiny to witness, and to dwell amongst for ever and for aye. I
would not exchange my dreams for all the realities of----

"Monsieur! veut-il déjeuner au salon?" said the slip-shod garçon of the hotel, tapping me on
the shoulder. "The company have all taken their seats, and I have kept a chair for Monsieur.
Does Monsieur prefer Burgundy or claret? The vin ordinaire is not sufferable: au reste, here
is the carte, and Monsieur has only to choose."

"'Tis a reality, my friend, that I was not then exactly thinking of--but breakfast I must,
and will. But just tell me, for a minute, where these people come from, that I see down in
the Place there, at that corner--the old gentleman in nankeen, with the green shade over his
eyes, and the fat little dame by his side; and those young ladies at the door of the large
hotel opposite, and the spruce militaire there at the window, and that knot of men in long
brown surtouts, one of whom is gesticulating so vehemently."

"Excusez, Monsieur, those gentlemen are great politicians," (grand again, thought I!) "and
one of them is deputy for the Department--M. de Beauparler: he has just been voting against
the Ministry, sir; he is a great friend of M. Lafitte, sir; oh, sir! c'est le plus grand orateur
de notre pays! You ought to hear him, sir. As for the young ladies, sir, they are les Demoiselles
Leroy: it was their father that you were remarking just now--the old gentleman--very short-sighted,
sir--he is immensely rich; Pardi! que sais-je?" (here he shrugged up his shoulders to his ears,)
"they say he has 50,000 francs a-year!--c'est assommant!" (here he shut his eyes and raised
his nose at an angle of forty-five degrees.) "Quant aux demoiselles, elles sont"----(he was
evidently at a loss for an expression; so he extended his first two fingers to his lips, closing
tightly the others and his thumb, and then blew a kiss with them to the winds.)

Tap! tap! at the door. "Pierre! are you coming down, then? they are asking for you every where!"
And the tightly girded, and somewhat altius accincta, fille-de-chambre--a spruce little black-eyed
Auvergnate,--tripped into the room. "Excusez, milor! but Pierre is such a gossip!" "My good
girl, I will detain neither Pierre nor yourself: give me my coat, dust my room well, and now
show me to the salle-à-manger."

As good luck would have it, Pierre had placed a chair for me next to Madame de Mirepoix, her
husband was on the other side of his lady,--'twas impossible to be in better company. Opposite
to me was a venerable white-haired mustached gentleman, evidently a military man, and next
to me was a lady, some five-and-forty, or thereabouts, with a strong Spanish cast of countenance
and complexion, and her husband, a short thick-necked apoplectic-looking man, by her side.
The rest of the company, though various enough in their physiognomical aspect, were evidently
persons of the upper ranks of society, and among them were several choice specimens of the
best and oldest nobility of France. They seemed all to make one joyous family party, as if
they had been relations rather than strangers; every body was laughing and chatting with his
neighbour; they were plying their forks most vigorously, and the noise and bustle was excessive.

"What do you think of our baths?" said my lovely neighbour; "for of course you have already
been immersed in, and have tasted the waters." I humbly alleged the negative. "Well! I declare
this phlegme Britannique is insupportable. Why, sir, we were at the bath-house before six this
morning."

"Had I but known it, Madame"----

"Ah, just so!" said the little apoplectic gentleman leaning across his wife to me: "Monsieur
est Anglais! c'est très bien, c'est très bien! Monsieur, you do us great honour to come to
visit this savage wilderness. But voyez-vous, you would have done much better to have stopped
at Paris; there's nothing here, sir--absolutely nothing! What are these mountains? Bare rocks!
forests, indeed, there are; but there are forests every where. Give me, sir, the Forêt de Montmorency,
even the Bois de Boulogne; and for rocks, I wish for nothing better than the Rocher de Cancale."
(Here he rubbed his hands excessively, and looked round the table for a smile at the bon-mot.)

"M. Bouton will pardon me," observed the old officer, "but if he had travelled all over Europe
as I have done, he would not wonder at the desire to change an every-day scene for something
new. When our corps d'armée was traversing the Mont St Bernard, I assure you I never felt the
slightest regret at having quitted Paris:--we could have gone on to the end of the world with
the spirits we then were in. It was the same in the Pyrenees:--for more reasons than one I
was extremely sorry when we had to quit Pampeluna for Bayonne"--and the old gentleman sighed,
and looked wistfully up at the ceiling, as though many a painful recollection came across his
mind at that moment.

"Which are the finer mountains sir," was my inquiry--"the Pyrenees or these of Auvergne?"

"You can hardly draw a comparison between them," he replied. "There is vast extent, width,
and height in the Pyrenees, and a certain degree of savage horror about them, which you do
not feel even amidst the Alps:--they partake of the nature both of France and Spain:--they
are unlike any mountains I know of. But for all this, sir, do not allow yourself to hold a
poor opinion of these heights of Mont Dor: you will find here scope and exercise for all your
enthusiasm, all your love of the picturesque. Are you fond of shooting and hunting?--well,
then, if you were to remain here during September and October, braving the early snows which
come upon these mountains even in autumn, you would have your choice of all animals from the
wolf to the chevreuil and the hare, and of all birds from the eagle to the partridge. There
are plenty of snipes on these hills."

"M. le Baron de Bretonville," said Madame Bouton, "do not go to tempt the English gentleman
to any of your hare-brained expeditions: he is come here to enjoy the baths:--he is a victim
to the spleen; he must be danced and talked and bathed into good health, and a little vivacity
first of all. When we all leave the baths, we will give him permission to stop behind with
you, and you may kill all the game you can find. At present we want a cavalier for our expedition:
there is Madame d'Arlincourt, and Madame de Tourzel, and the Duchesse de Vauvilliers, and Madame
de Mirepoix there, on your right--why these ladies are all here by themselves; they want a
cavalier this very morning. Figurez-vous, Monsieur!" and the lady turned towards me--"we want
somebody to come and find our ponies for us, and to take care of our shawls, and to carry our
books, and our stools, and positively, with the exception of two officers who are at the other
hotel, I do not know whom to ask. We engage you, sir, for the whole of this very day: our husbands"----

"I thought, Madame, that these ladies were all alone here."

"Ah!--our husbands, ça va sans dire!--but gentlemen of that kind do nothing else than play
billiards all the morning."

"It is only the young and the gallant," here interposed Madame de Mirepoix "that dare to face
our forests.--You shall teach us all some English as we ride along: I could give any thing
to master your barbarous language:--you have only one musical word in it--moonlight."

Now, I know not what there was in the pronunciation of Madame de Mirepoix, but though the word
had never before entered into my imagination as any thing but one of the most commonplace of
our vocabulary, there was a witchery in the sound as it flowed forth from her swelling lips
that riveted my attention, and set my imagination on fire. 'Tis the same with French:--how
refined and how mellow soever may be the utterance of the most polished courtier of France,
of the most learned academician of the Institute, there is sometimes a rich pouting sound,
a sort of velvety and oily intonation, that distinguishes the speech of the women of high birth
such as I never heard in any other country. It is not to be defined: but whoso has drunk in
the golden tones of such a syren, will know what I mean. Moonlight! yes, 'tis a pleasing word,
by its signification and its associated ideas, if not by its own innate harmony: yes; I have
learned the full influence and sweetness of moonlight, whether in the summer woodland or in
the wintry cloister; true, there is both music and poetry, ay and something else, in moonlight.

"I agree to the thing, Madame la Marquise, if not to the sound; nothing could be more beautiful
than the latter as you have pronounced it, except the reality, amidst these mountains and these
retired deep-green glades."

"Nous le verrons, peut-être."

THE FOREST.

All the great valleys that branch out from the sides of the volcanic chain of Auvergne were
once, no doubt, filled with impenetrable forests: gloomy wildernesses, thick as those of American
wilds, where scarcely the light of the sun could penetrate, and tenanted only by the wolf,
the bear, the boar, and the stag. Now these forests have disappeared from the eastern and western
skirts of the chain, and are to be found in primitive luxuriance only in the centre, where
civilisation and the destroying step of man have not made their way. Here the original forest
is still to be seen in all its pride; untouched, untrimmed, unheeded by man: full of all its
sublime grandeur--solemn, vast, and mysterious as forests have ever been; sobering, soothing,
and beautiful as forests will ever be. In some of the valleys the trees are principally of
the deciduous kind; enormous oaks, and chestnuts, and beeches, filling up the vacant space
left by the granitic walls on either side: but in the higher regions of the mountainous district,
in the more hidden recesses of the hills, they are all of the silver-fir species, and they
attain a luxuriance of growth not to be imagined but by those who have studied this, the noblest
of the whole tribe of pines. Here forests occur, leagues upon leagues in extent, filling up
wide and winding valleys; running out upon the elevated plateaux of the mountains; and wrapping
the whole country in gloomy majesty. You may ride day after day through these intricate sylvan
scenes, and never cross the track of a human being: or you may emerge from the depth of the
wood, at some unexpected turn of a valley, upon a delightful little farm or village in a green
glade of welcome verdure; and you may there witness the extreme simplicity of the hardy mountaineers.
Still higher up on the hills, and on the vast pasture grounds that reach up to their summits,
along the gently descending plateaux, occurs the birch, luxuriating in the cold exposure of
its habitation as though it were in Siberia instead of France: and ever and anon, whether high
up or low down the sides of the hills, you will find the box and the juniper bushes flourishing
in perennial perfection.

It is curious to see the enormous size to which the silver-fir will here attain. Sometimes
this tree rises with the utmost regularity--sending out its branches at equal intervals, tier
above tier--itself tapering upwards, and each circle of branches decreasing in diameter until
a hundred and fifty feet are gained. The stems of some of these giants of the forest are eighteen
feet in circumference at the height of a man from the ground, and their lower branches would
of themselves form trees such as many a trim and well-kept park could never boast of. At other
times the original tree will have met with an accidental fracture when young, and after going
up twenty or thirty feet from the ground, as an immense wooden column, will throw out three
or four other trees from its summit, which will all shoot up parallel to each other into the
air and form a little forest of themselves. Very frequently, however, it happens that the tree
has been contorted in its early growth, and then broken afterwards: in such cases it seems
to have forgotten its nature completely, and to have gone mad in its spirit of increase; for
it turns and forces itself into the strangest convolutions and intricacies of form. It becomes
like a short stunted oak, or a thickly knotted thorn: or it might sometimes be mistaken for
a willow, at others for a cedar--for any thing but one of the same species as the stately spire
of wood that soars up into the heaven close by its side.

When the tree becomes quite dead, blasted by lightning, or injured by the attacks of animals
at its base, it does not therefore lose all its beauty; for it becomes immediately covered
with a peculiar gray lichen of great length and luxuriance; occupying every branch and twig
of the dead tree, and clothing it, as it were, with a second but a new kind of foliage. This
lichen will sometimes hang down from the branches in strings of weeping vegetation to the length
of five feet and more. You may sometimes ride under the living tree where this parasitical
foliage is mixed with the real covering of the boughs, forming the most anomalous, and yet
the most picturesque of contrasts.

In forests of this kind, the undergrowth of brushwood of every variety is exceedingly abundant
and beautiful: every woodland shrub is to be found there--the hazel especially--and the thickets
thereby formed are quite impenetrable. As the older and larger trees decay, they lose their
footing in the soil, and fall in every variety of strange position--presenting a picture of
desolation, the effect of which is at first strange to the mind, and at last becomes even painful.
But wherever a tree falls, there a luxuriant growth of moss succeeds: a little peat-bed forms
itself underneath: generations after generations of mosses and watery plants succeed one another;
and in time the prostrate trunk is entirely buried under a bright-green bed, soft as down,
but treacherous to the foot as a quicksand. Often may the wanderer amid these wild glades think
to throw himself on one of these inviting couches; and, bounding on to it, he sinks five or
six feet through moss and weed and dirty peat, till his descent is stopped by the skeleton
of the vast tree that lies beneath. Wild flowers grow all around: and every spot of ground
that will produce them is covered in the summer season with the tempting little red strawberry,
or the wild raspberry, or the blushing rose. Above all, still keep peering, in solemn and interminable
array, the vast monarchs of the wood, the stately and elegant silver-firs.

When you attempt to leave the forests and advance towards the upper grounds, you commonly find
yourself stopped by a precipitous wall of basaltic columns, ranging from sixty to seventy feet
in height in one unbroken shaft, and forming a vast barrier for miles and miles in length.
In some places, these gray basaltic walls come circling round, and constitute an immense natural
theatre, sombre and grand as the forest itself. No sound is there heard save the dashing of
a distant cascade, or the wind in deep symphony rushing through the slow-waving tops of the
trees. Below is a carpet of the most lively green, variegated with turfs of wild flowers and
fruits--one of nature's secret, yet choicest gardens. Through the midst trickles a silvery
stream, coming you know not whence, but musical in its course, and soon losing itself in the
thick underwood that borders the spot all around. Such is the Salle de Mirabeau--one of the
loveliest of the many lovely hiding-places of these sublime forests.

The feathered tenants of these woods are mostly birds of prey, or at all events such as the
raven, the jay, the pie, and others which can either defend themselves against, or escape from,
the falcons that consider these solitudes as their own especial domains. The voices of few
singing-birds are to be heard; they have taken refuge nearer the habitations of man: but the
hooting of the owl, the beating of the woodpecker, and the screaming of kites and hawks, are
all the living sounds that proceed here from the air. Red-deer, wolves, wild-boars, roebucks,
and foxes, are the denizens of these forests and these mountains: there is room here for them
all to live at their ease; and they abound. No one with a good barrel and a sure aim, ever
entered these forests in vain: his burden is commonly more than he can carry home. It is in
fact a glorious country for the sportsman; for the lower ranges of the hills abound in hares,
the cultivated grounds have plenty of partridges and quails, and the forests are tenanted as
has been seen. He who can content himself with his gun or his rod--for the streams are full
of trout--may here pass a golden age, without a thought for the morrow, without a desire unfulfilled.

Certainly, if I wished to retire from the world and lead a life of philosophic indifference,
not altogether out of the reach of society when I wanted it, these hills and these forests
of Auvergne, and the Mont Dor, would be the spots I should select. The mind here would become
attuned to the grand harmonies of nature's own making; here, philosophy might be cultivated
in good earnest; here, books might be studied and theories digested, without interruption and
with inward profit. Here, a man might cultivate both science and art, and he might become again
the free and happy being which, until he betook himself to congregating in towns, he was destined
to be. Yes! when I do withdraw from this world's vanities and troubles, give me forests and
mountains like those of Mont Dor.

THE FIGHTING EIGHTY-EIGHTH.[3]

The pugnacity of Irishmen has grown into a proverb, until, in the belief of many, a genuine
Milesian is never at peace but when fighting. With certain nations, certain habits are inseparably
associated as peculiarly characterising them. Thus, in vulgar apprehension, the Frenchman dances,
the German smokes, the Spaniard serenades; and on all hands it is agreed that the Irishman
fights. Naturally bellicose, his practice is pugnacious: antagonism is his salient and distinctive
quality. Born in a squabble, he dies in a shindy: in his cradle he squeals a challenge; his
latest groan is a sound of defiance. Pike and pistol are manifest in his well-developed bump
of combativeness; his name is FIGHT, there can be no mistake about it. From highest to lowest--in
the peer and the bog-trotter, the inherent propensity breaks forth, more or less modified by
station and education.

Be its expression parliamentary or popular, in Donnybrook or St Stephen's, out it will. "Show
me the man who'll tread on my coat!" shouts ragged Pat, flourishing his shillelagh as he hurls
his dilapidated garment on the shebeen-house floor. From his seat in the senate, a joint of
the "Tail" intimates, in more polished but equally intelligible phrase, his inclination for
a turn upon the turf. Wherever blows are rife, Hibernia's sons appear; in big fights or little
wars the shamrock gleams in the van. No matter the cloth, so long as the quarrel be there.
In Austrian white, or Spanish yellow, or Prussian blue,--even in the blood-coloured breeks
of Gallia's legions, but especially, and preferred above all, in the "old red rag" of the British
grenadier, have Irishmen displayed their valour. And on the list of heroes whom the Green Isle
has produced, a proud and prominent place is justly held by that gallant corps, the Rangers
of Connaught.

Those of our civilian readers to whom the word "Ranger" is more suggestive of bushes and kangaroos,
or of London parks and princes of the blood, than of parades and battle-fields, are referred
to page 49 of the Army List. They will there find something to the following effect:--

    88th, CONNAUGHT RANGERS.

    The Harp and Crown.

    "Quis Separabit?"

    The Sphinx, "Egypt."
    "Talavera." "Busaco."
    "Fuentes d'Onore."
    "Cindad Rodrigo."
    "Badajoz." "Salamanca."
    "Vittoria."
    "Nivelle." "Orthes."
    "Toulouse."
    "Peninsula."

There is a forest of well-won laurels in this dozen of names. They form a proud blazon for
any corps, and one that might satisfy the most covetous of honour. But of all men in the world,
old soldiers are the hardest to content. They are patented grumblers. Napoleon knew it, and
christened his vieille garde his grognards: tough and true as steel, they yet would have their
growl. Now the lads of the Eighty-Eighth, having proved themselves better men even than the
veteran guards of the Corsican corporal, also claim the grumbler's privilege, setting forth
sundry griefs and grave causes of complaint. They are not allowed the word "Pyrenees" upon
their colours, although, at the fight of that name, they not only were present, but rendered
good service:--whilst for Waterloo many a man got a medal who, during the whole battle, was
scarce within boom of cannon. During more than four years of long marches, short commons, severe
hardships, and frequent fighting, the general commanding the third division--the fighting division,
as it was called--viewed the Connaughters with dislike, even stigmatised them as confirmed
marauders, and recommended none of their officers for promotion, although many greatly distinguished
themselves, and some,--the brave Mackie, at Ciudad Rodrigo, for instance--successfully led
forlorn-hopes. Finally, passing over the old sore of non-decoration for Peninsular services,
since that, common to many regiments, is at last about to be healed,--Mr Robinson, the biographer
of Sir Thomas Picton, has dared, in order to vindicate the harsh and partial conduct of his
hero, to cast dust upon the facings of the brave boys of Connaught. It need hardly be said
that they have found defenders. Of these, the most recent is Lieutenant Grattan, formerly an
officer of the Eighty-eighth, and who, after making a vigorous stand, in the pages of a military
periodical, against the calumniators of his old corps, has brought up his reserves and come
to its support in a book of his own. His volumes, however, are not devoted to mere controversy.
He has understood that he should best state the case, establish the merits, and confound the
enemies of his regiment, by a faithful narrative of his and its adventures, triumphs, and sufferings.
Thus, whilst he has seized the opportunity to deal out some hard knocks to those who have blamed
the conduct (none have ever impugned the courage) of the Connaught Rangers, he has produced
an entertaining book, thoroughly Irish in character, where the ludicrous and the horrible,
the rollicking and the slaughtering, mingle and alternate. Even when most indignant, good humour
and a love of fun peep through his pages. His prologue or preamble, entitled "An Answer to
some attacks in Robinson's Life of Picton," although redolent of "slugs in a sawpit," is full
of the national humour. "Frequently," Mr Robinson has asserted, "just before going into battle,
it would be found, upon inspection, that one-half of the Eighty-eighth regiment were without
ammunition, having acquired a pernicious habit of exchanging the cartridge for aguardiente,
and substituting in their places pieces of wood, cut and coloured to resemble them." Such things
have been heard of, even in very well-regulated regiments, as the exchange of powder and ball
for brandy and other creature comforts; but it is very unlikely that the practice should have
prevailed to any thing like the extent here set down, in a British army in active service and
under Wellington's command, and the artfully prepared quaker-cartridges increase the improbability
of the statement. Lieutenant Grattan scouts the tale as a base fabrication, lashes out in fine
style at its propagator, and claims great merit for the officers who taught their men to beat
the best troops in the world with timber ammunition. He puts forward a more serious refutation
by a string of certificates from men and officers of all ranks who served with him in the Peninsula,
and who strenuously repel the charge as a malignant calumny.

It was at the close of the campaign of 1809, that the historian of the Connaught Rangers, then
a newly commissioned youngster, joined, within a march of Badajoz, the first battalion of his
regiment. The palmy and triumphant days of the British army in the Peninsula could then hardly
be said to have begun. True, they had had victories; the hard-earned one of Talavera had been
gained only three months previously, but the general aspect of things was gloomy and disheartening.
The campaign had been one of much privation and fatigue; rations were insufficient, quarters
unhealthy, and Wellington's little army, borne on the muster-rolls as thirty thousand men,
was diminished one-third by disease. The Portuguese, who numbered nearly as many, were raw
and untried troops, scarce a man of whom had seen fire, and little reliance could be placed
upon them. In spite of Lord Wellington's judicious and reiterated warnings, the incompetent
and conceited Spanish generals risked repeated engagements, in which their armies--numerous
enough, but ill disciplined, ill armed, and half-starved--were crushed and exterminated. The
French side of the medal presented a very different picture. Elated by their German victories,
their swords yet red with Austrian blood, Napoleon's best troops and ablest marshals hurried
southwards, sanguinely anticipating, upon the fields of the Peninsula, an easy continuation
of their recent triumphs. Three hundred and sixty thousand men-at-arms--French, Germans, Italians,
Poles, even Mamelukes--spread themselves over Spain, occupied her towns, and invested her fortresses.
Ninety thousand soldiers, under Massena, "l'enfant chéri de la Victoire," composed the so-called
"army of Portugal," intended to expel from that country, if not to annihilate, the English
leader and his small but resolute band, who, undismayed, awaited the coming storm. In the ever-memorable
lines of Torres Vedras, the legions of Buonaparte met a stern and effectual dike to their torrent
of headlong aggression. Upon the happy selection and able defence of those celebrated positions,
were based the salvation of the Peninsula and the subsequent glorious progress of the British
arms. Whilst referring to them, Mr Grattan seizes the opportunity to enumerate the services
rendered by the army in Spain. And thereupon our friend, the Connaughter, bursts out into indignation
that warriors who did such deeds, and, on fifteen different occasions received the thanks of
parliament, should have been denied a medal for their services. Certainly, when men who went
through the whole, or the greater part, of those terrible campaigns, which they began as commissioned
officers, are now seen holding no higher than a lieutenant's rank, one cannot but recognise
their title to some additional recompense, and marvel that the modest and well-merited badge
they claim should so long have been refused them. Mr Grattan puts much of the blame of such
refusal at the door of the Duke of Wellington. Not that he is usually a depreciator of his
former leader, of whose military genius and great achievements he ever speaks with respect
amounting to veneration. But he does not hesitate to accuse him of having sacrificed his old
followers and friends to his own vanity, which petty feeling, he maintains, made the Duke desire
that the only medal granted for the war against Napoleon, should be given for the only victory
in which he beat the Emperor in person. We believe that many Peninsular officers, puzzled to
account for the constant and seemingly causeless refusal of the coveted decoration, hold the
same opinion with Mr Grattan. We esteem it rather plausible than sound. The names Of WELLINGTON
and WATERLOO would not the less be immortally associated because a cross bearing those of PENINSULA
and PYRENEES, or any other appropriate legend, shone upon the breasts of that "old Spanish
infantry," of whom the Duke always spoke with affection and esteem, and to whom he unquestionably
is mainly indebted for the wealth, honours, and fame which, for more than thirty years, he
has tranquilly enjoyed. Moreover, we cannot credit such selfishness on the part of such a man,
or believe that he, to whom a grateful sovereign and country decerned every recompense in their
power to bestow, would be so thankless to the men to whose sweat and blood he mainly owed his
success--to men who bore him, it may truly be said, upon their shoulders, to the highest pinnacle
of greatness a British subject can possibly attain. Waterloo concluded the war: its results
were immense, the conduct of the troops engaged heroic; but when we compare the amount of glory
there gained with the renown accumulated during six years' warfare--a renown undimmed by a
single reverse;--still more, when we contrast the dangers and hardships of one short campaign,
however brilliant, with those of half-a-dozen long ones crowded with battles and sieges, we
must admit that if the victors of La Belle Alliance nobly earned their medal, the veterans
of Salamanca and Badajoz, Vittoria and Toulouse, have a threefold claim to a similar reward.
They have long been unjustly deprived of it, and now comparatively few remain to receive the
tardily-accorded distinction.

The first action to which Mr Grattan refers, as having himself taken share in, is that of Busaco.
The name is familiar to every body, but yet, of all the Peninsular battles, it is perhaps the
one of which least is generally known. It was not a very bloody fight--the loss in killed and
wounded having been barely seven per cent of the numbers engaged; still it was a highly important
one, as testing the quality of the Portuguese levies, upon which much depended. Upon the whole,
they behaved pretty well, although they committed one or two awkward blunders, and one of their
militia regiments took to flight at the first volley fired by their own friends. Mr Grattan
does not usually set himself up as a historical authority with respect to battles, except in
matters pertaining to his own regiment or brigade, and which came under his own observation.
Nevertheless, concerning Busaco, he speaks boldly out, and asserts his belief that no correct
report of the action exists in print. Napier derives his account of it from Colonel Waller,
whose statement is totally incorrect, and has been expressly contradicted by various officers
(amongst others, by General King) who fought that day with Picton's division. Colonel Napier's
strong partiality to the light division sometimes prevents his doing full justice to other
portions of the army. In this instance, however, any error he has fallen into, arises from
his being misinformed. He himself was far away to the left, fighting with his own corps, and
could know nothing, from personal observation, of the proceedings of Picton's men. Opposed
to a very superior force, including some of the best regiments of the whole French army, they
had their hands full; and the Eighty-eighth, especially, covered themselves with glory. At
one time, the Rangers had not only the French fire to endure, but also that of the Eighth Portuguese,
whose ill-directed volleys crossed their line of march. An officer sent to warn the Senhores
of the mischief they did, received, before he could fulfil his mission, a French and a Portuguese
bullet, and the Eighth continued their reckless discharge. But no cross-fire could daunt the
men of Connaught. "Push home to the muzzle!" was the word of their gallant lieutenant-colonel,
Wallace; and push home they did, totally routing their opponents, and nearly destroying the
French Thirty-sixth, a pet battalion of the Emperor's. Stimulus was not wanting; Wellington
stood by, and, with his staff and several generals, watched the charge. The Eighty-eighth were
greatly outnumbered, and Marshal Beresford, their colonel, "expressed some uneasiness when
he saw his regiment about to plunge into this unequal contest. But when they were mixed with
Regnier's division, and putting them to flight down the hill, Lord Wellington, tapping Beresford
on the shoulder, said to him, 'Well Beresford, look at them now!'" And when the work was done,
and the fight over, Wellington rode up to Colonel Wallace, and seizing him warmly by the hand,
said, "Wallace, I never witnessed a more gallant charge than that made by your regiment!" Beresford
spoke to several of the men by name, and shook the officers' hands; and even Picton forgot
his prejudice against the regiment, whom he had once designated as the "Connaught foot-pads,"
and expressed himself satisfied with their conduct. Many of the men shed tears of joy. So susceptible
are soldiers to praise and kindness, and so easy is it by a few well-timed words to repay their
toils and perils, and renew their store of confidence and hope. And numerous were the occasions
during the Peninsular contest when they needed all the encouragement that could be given them.
After Busaco, when blockaded in the lines of Torres Vedras, their situation was far from agreeable.
The wet season set in, and their huts, roofed with heather--a pleasant shelter when the sun
shone, but very ineffectual to resist autumnal rains--became untenable. Every device was resorted
to for the exclusion of the deluge, but in vain. Fortunately, the French were in a still worse
plight. In miserable cantonments, short of provisions and attacked by disease, the horses died,
and the men deserted; until, on the 14th November, Massena broke up his camp, and retired upon
Santarem. The Anglo-Portuguese army made a corresponding movement into more comfortable quarters,
and rumours were abroad of an approaching engagement; but it did not take place, and a period
of comparative relaxation succeeded one of severe hardship and arduous duty. Men and officers
made the most of the holiday. There was never any thing of the martinet about the Duke. He
was not the man to harass with unnecessary and vexations drills, or rigidly to enforce unimportant
rules. Those persons, whether military or otherwise, who consider a strictly regulation uniform
as essential to the composition of a British soldier, as a stout heart and a strong arm, and
who stickle for a closely buttoned jacket, a stiff stock, and the due allowance of pipe-clay,
would have been somewhat scandalised, could they have beheld the equipment of Wellington's
army in the Peninsula. Mr Grattan gives a comical account of the various fantastical fashions
and conceits prevalent amongst the officers. "Provided," he says, "we brought our men into
the field well-appointed, and with sixty rounds of good ammunition each, he (the Duke) never
looked to see whether their trousers were black, blue, or grey; and as to ourselves, we might
be rigged out in all the colours of the rainbow, if we fancied it." The officers, especially
the young subs, availed themselves largely of this judicious laxity, and the result was a medley
of costume, rather picturesque than military. Braided coats, long hair, plumed hats, and large
mustaches, were amongst the least of the eccentricities displayed. In a curious spirit of contradiction,
the infantry adopted brass spurs, anticipatory, perhaps, of their promotion to field-officers'
rank; and, bearing in mind, that "there is nothing like leather," exhibited themselves in ponderous
over-alls, à la Hongroise, topped and strapped, and loaded down the side with buttons and chains.
One man, in his rage for singularity, took the tonsure, shaving the hair off the crown of his
head; and another, having covered his frock-coat with gold tags and lace, was furiously assaulted
by a party of Portuguese sharpshooters, who, seeing him, in the midst of the enemy's riflemen,
whither his headlong courage had led him, mistook him for a French general, and insisted upon
making him prisoner. And three years later, when Mr Grattan and a party of his comrades landed
in England, in all the glories of velvet waistcoats, dangling Spanish buttons of gold and silver,
and forage caps of fabulous magnificence, they could hardly fancy that they belonged to the
same service as the red-coated, white-breeched, black-gaitered gentlemen of Portsmouth garrison.

The embarkation of the British army, which in the summer of 1810 was deemed imminent both in
England and the Peninsula and considered probable by Lord Liverpool himself, was no longer
thought of after Busaco, save by a few of those croaking gentlemen, who, in camps as in council-houses,
view every thing through smoked spectacles. Reinforcements, both English and Spanish, reached
the lines of Torres Vedras, which Wellington continued to strengthen, and Massena dared not
attack. The accession of General Drouet's corps increased the army of the Prince of Essling
to upwards of 70,000 men. His cavalry, too, was twice as strong as that of the British; but,
notwithstanding this superiority, and the desire which he must have felt to retrieve his fame,
tarnished by the repulse at Busaco, and by his fruitless movement on the lines of Lisbon, Massena
remained inert, in front of the man whom Napoleon's Moniteur contemptuously designated as the
"Sepoy General." Spring approached without either army assuming the offensive, until, on the
5th of March 1811, the French began their retreat from Portugal, closely followed up by Wellington.
There was little difficulty in tracing them: they left a broad trail of blood, and desolation.
With bare blade, and blazing brand, they swept across the land; church and convent, town and
village, the farm and the cottage, were given to the flames; on the most frivolous pretexts,
often without one, women, children, and unarmed men were barbarously murdered; and many a Portuguese
lost his life for refusing to point out treasures which existed only in the imagination of
the fierce and greedy Frenchman. Enraged at the dearth of provisions, of which they stood in
great need, and which had been every-where removed or destroyed, the retreating army abandoned
themselves to frightful cruelties and excesses. All along the line of march, the pursuers found
piles of bodies, groups of murdered peasantry, and, mingled with them, the corpses of Frenchmen,
often hideously mutilated, according to the barbarous usage which has been continued in more
recent wars by the vindictive population of the Peninsula. The retaliation was terrible, but
the provocation had been extreme. Mr Grattan's details of some of the scenes he himself witnessed,
are painfully minute and vivid; and whilst reading them, we cease to wonder that, after the
lapse of a third of a century, hatred of the French exists almost undiminished in the countries
they so cruelly and wantonly ravaged.

However orderly and well-conducted, there is always something discouraging in a retreat, as
there is a cheerful and exhilarating feeling attendant on an advance. Nevertheless, during
their progress across Portugal, the French maintained their high reputation. Their rear-guard,
commanded by Marshal Ney, made good fight when pressed by the British, but their losses were
heavy before they reached the Spanish frontier. This they crossed early in April, and a month
later they had to recross it, to convey supplies to the fortress of Almeida, the only place
in Portugal over which the tricolor still floated. The result of this movement was the bloody
combat of Fuentes d'Onore, a complete but dearly-bought triumph for our arms. Here the Eighty-eighth
nobly distinguished themselves. At first they were in reserve, whilst for eight hours two Highland
regiments, the Eighty-third and some light companies, fought desperately in the town, opposed
to the fresh troops which Massena continually sent up. Their loss was very heavy, the streets
were heaped with dead, the heat was excessive, and ammunition grew scarce. The Highlanders
and the French grenadiers fought in the cemetery, across the graves and tombstones. "Wallace,
with his regiment, the Eighty-eighth, was in reserve on the high ground which overlooked the
churchyard, and was attentively viewing the combat which raged below, when Sir Edward Pakenham
galloped up to him, and said, 'Do you see that, Wallace?'--'I do,' replied the colonel; 'and
I would rather drive the French out of the town than cover a retreat across the Coa.'--'Perhaps,'
said Sir Edward, 'his lordship don't think it tenable.' Wallace answering, said, 'I shall take
it with my regiment, and keep it too.'--'Will you?' was the reply; 'I'll go and tell Lord Wellington
so.' In a moment or two, Pakenham returned at a gallop, and waving his hat, called out, 'He
says you may go.--Come along, Wallace!'"

Poor Pakenham! ever foremost to lead a charge or brave a peril. He deserved a better fate,
after his glorious exploits in the Peninsula, than to be picked off by a sneaking Yankee rifle,
in the swampy plains of New Orleans. But the same "boiling spirit and hasty temper" that won
him laurels in Europe, led him to his death in another hemisphere. Over-confidence may be pardoned
in a man who had so often driven before him the redoubtable cohorts of the modern Alexander.
And one mistake cannot obliterate the memory of fifty gallant feats.--Full of fight, and led
on by Pakenham, Mackinnon, and Wallace, the Eighty-eighth advanced at a smart trot into the
town, where the French Ninth regiment and a few hundreds of the Imperial Guard awaited them.
Their charge was irresistible; they cleared the place and drove the enemy into the river. They
even pursued them through it, and several Rangers fell on the French side of the stream. About
a hundred and fifty of the Old Guard ran into a street, of which the further end was barricaded.
Mr Grattan, whose account of the affair is a graphic and interesting piece of military narrative,
is amusingly cool and naïf in referring to this incident. "Mistakes of this kind," he says,
"will sometimes occur, and when they do, the result is easily imagined.... In the present instance,
every man was put to death; but our soldiers, as soon as they had leisure, paid the enemy that
respect which is due to brave men." We apprehend that, with the Connaughters, leisure, in this
sense, was scanty, at least at Fuentes d'Onore; but, in so close and desperate a fight, hot
blood is apt to drown mercy. The dashing charge of the Eighty-eighth nearly closed the day's
performances, although the French batteries, admirably served, still peppered the town. Men
and officers sheltered themselves as well as they could, but many were killed; whilst Pakenham,
with reckless bravery, rode about the streets, a mark for the enemy's shot, which tore up the
ground around him whenever he stood still. "He was in a violent perspiration and covered with
dust, his left hand bound round with a handkerchief, as if he had been wounded; he was ever
in the hottest of the fire: and, if the whole fate of the battle had depended on his exertions,
he could not have fought with more devotion."

Amongst the many daring acts witnessed on the bloody day of Fuentes d'Onore, that of the Spanish
guerilla chief, Julian Sanchez, deserves notice. At the head of his ragged and ill-disciplined
band, he had the temerity to charge a crack French regiment, and, as might be expected, was
sent back with a sore head. Whilst on the subject of guerillas, Mr Grattan combats an opinion
which he believes many persons in this country entertain, "that the Spaniards and Portuguese
did as much, if not more, during the Peninsular contest, than the British." Here he is certainly
mistaken. Very few persons, out of the Peninsula, have any such notion. The French know well
enough by whom they were beaten. Loth as they are to acknowledge a thrashing at the hands of
their old antagonists, they do not dream of attributing their defeats to the "brigands," of
whom they declare they would have had a very cheap bargain, but for the intervention of the
troublesome English. And certainly, if the Spaniards and Portuguese had been left to themselves,
although, favoured by the mountainous configuration of the country, they might long have kept
up a desultory contest, they would never have succeeded in expelling the invaders; for the
simple reason that they were wholly unable to meet them in the plain. Most true it is that,
during the war of independence, the people of the Peninsula gave numerous examples of bravery
and devotion, and still more of long suffering and patient endurance for their country's sake.
The irregular mode of warfare adopted by the peasantry, the great activity and constant skirmishings,
stratagems, and ambuscades of Mina, the Empecinado, Sanchez, and many other patriotic and valiant
men, greatly harassed and annoyed the French; and, by compelling them to employ large bodies
of troops in garrison and escort duty, prevented their opposing an overwhelming force to the
comparatively small army under Wellington. But all that sort of thing, however useful and efficacious
as a general system, and as weakening the enemy, was very petty work when examined in detail.
The great victories, the mighty feats of war that figure in history's page, were due to British
discipline, pluck, and generalship. And whatever merit remains with the Spaniards, is to be
attributed to their guerillas and irregular partisans. As to their regular troops, after they
had overthrown Dupont at Baylen, they seemed to think they might doze upon their laurels, which
were very soon wrenched from them. Baylen was their grand triumph, and subsequently to it they
did little in the field. Behind stone walls they still fought well: Spaniards are brave and
tenacious in a fortress, and Saragossa is a proud name in their annals. Nothing could be better
than old General Herrasti's valiant defence of Cuidad Rodrigo against Ney and his thirty thousand
Frenchmen. The garrison, six thousand strong, lost seven hundred men by the first day's fire.
Only when their guns were silenced, when the town was on fire in various places, and when several
yards of wall were thrown down by a mine, did the brave governor hoist the white flag. Other
instances of the kind might be cited, when Spanish soldiers fought as well as mortal men could
do. But with respect to pitched battles, another tale must be told. At Ocaña, Almonacid, and
on a dozen other disastrous fields, Baylen was amply revenged. The loss at Ocaña alone is rated
by Spanish accounts at thirty thousand men, chiefly prisoners. Mr Grattan estimates it at twenty-five
thousand men, and thirteen thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven guitars. Of these latter,
he tells us twelve thousand seven hundred and fifty-two were in cases, and the remainder without;
Indeed he is so exceedingly circumstantial that we presume he counted them himself. Otherwise,
although well aware of the Spaniard's predilection for the fascinating tinkle of his national
instrument, we could hardly credit the accuracy of the figures. Even a Spanish general, we
should think, would hardly allow his men thus to encumber themselves with harmony. The march
of such an army of Orpheuses, in which every third soldier shouldered a fiddle-case as a pendant
to his musket, must have been curious to behold; suggesting the idea that the melodious warriors
designed subduing their foes by the soothing strains of jotas and cachuchas, rather than by
the more cogent arguments of sharp steel and ball-cartridge. Great must have been the tinkling
at eventide, exceeding that of the most extensive flock of merinos that ever cropped Castilian
herbage. Was it because they were certain of a dance that these barrack-yard minstrels came
provided with music, sure, in any case, to have the piper to pay? If the instruments were provided
to celebrate a triumph, they might as well have been left at home. In Spain, however, time
has effaced, or greatly weakened, the remembrance of many reverses, whilst slight and dubious
successes, carefully treasured up, have swollen by the keeping into mighty victories; and at
the present day, foreigners who should be so uncourteous and impolitic as to express, in the
hearing of Spaniards, a doubt that Spanish valour was the main agent in driving the French
from the Peninsula, might reckon, not on a stab--knifeing being less in vogue beyond the Bay
of Biscay than is often imagined--but certainly on a scowl, and probably on an angry contradiction.
And in every province, almost in every town, in Spain the traveller may, if he so pleaseth,
be regaled with marvellous narratives of signal victories, gained over the gavachos, in that
immediate neighbourhood, by valiant generals whose names, so partial is fame, have never transpired
beyond the scenes of their problematical exploits. Under the constitutional system, and owing
to the long civil war, Spanish troops have improved in discipline and in various other respects;
and with good generals, there is no manifest reason why they should not successfully cope with
Frenchmen, although we doubt whether they could. But in Napoleon's day matters were very different,
and in the open field their chance was desperate. The Portuguese were doubtless of a better
quality; and in the pages of Napier and other historians, we find them spoken of in terms of
praise. They had British officers to head them, and there is much in good leading; they had
British troops to emulate, and national pride spurred them on. At the same period, Italians--certainly
very poor soldiers when left to themselves--fought gallantly under French generals, and with
French example before them. Of the general bearing of the Portuguese, however, we have heard
few Peninsular men speak very highly. They appear to have been extremely inconsistent; brave
one day, dastards the next.

At, Ciudad Rodrigo, Mr Grattan greatly lauds their gallantry, which struck him the more as
being unexpected. At Salamanca, on the other hand, he records their weakness, and the easy
repulse of Pack's brigade, two thousand strong, by four hundred Frenchmen. "Notwithstanding
all that has been said and written of the Portuguese troops, I still hold the opinion that
they are utterly incompetent to stand unsupported and countenanced by British troops, with
any chance of success, against even half their own numbers of Frenchmen." Again, after Salamanca,
when Wellington and his victorious army advanced on Madrid, the Portuguese dragoons fled, without
striking a blow, before the French lancers, exposing the reserve of German cavalry to severe
loss, abandoning the artillery to its fate, and tarnishing the triumphal entry of the British
into the capital--within a march of which this disgraceful affair occurred. Still, to encourage
these wavering heroes, it was necessary to speak civilly of them in despatches; to pat them
on the back, and tell them they were fine fellows. And this has sometimes been misunderstood
by simple persons, who believe all they see in print, and look upon despatches and bulletins
as essentially veracious documents. "I remember once," says Mr Grattan, "upon my return home
in 1813, getting myself closely cross-examined by an old lawyer, because I said I thought the
Portuguese troops inferior to the French, still more to the British. 'Inferior to the British,
sir! I have read Lord Wellington's last despatch, and he says the Portuguese fought as well
as the British; and I suppose you won't contradict him?' I saw it was vain to convince this
pugnacious old man of the necessity of saying these civil things, and we parted mutually dissatisfied
with each other; he taking me, no doubt, for a forward young puppy, and I looking upon him
as a monstrous old bore."

The Eighty-eighth, we gather from Mr Grattan's narrative, whilst respected by all as a first-rate
battle regiment, was, when the stirring and serious events of that busy time left a moment
for trifling, a fertile source of amusement to the whole third division. This is not wonderful.
Many of the officers, and all the men, with the exception of three or four, were Irish, not
Anglicised Irishmen, tamed by long residence amongst the Saxon, but raw, roaring Patlanders,
who had grown and thriven on praties and potheen, and had carried with them to Spain their
rich brogue, their bulls, and an exhaustless stock of gaiety. The amount of fun and blunders
furnished by such a corps was naturally immense. But if in quarters they were made the subject
of much good-humoured quizzing, in the field their steady valour was justly appreciated. No
regiment in the service contained a larger proportion of "lads that weren't aisy," which metaphorical
phrase, current among the Rangers, is translated by Mr Grattan as signifying fellows who would
walk into a cannon's month, and think the operation rather a pleasant one. Whenever a desperate
service was to be done, "the boys," as they, more Hibernico, familiarly termed themselves,
were foremost in the ranks of volunteers. The contempt of danger, or non-comprehension of it,
manifested by some of these gentlemen, was perfect. "My fine fellow," said an engineer officer,
during the unsuccessful siege of Badajoz in May 1811, to a man under Lieutenant Grattan's orders,
who sat outside a battery, hammering at a fascine; "my fine fellow, you are too much exposed;
get inside the embrasure, and you will do your work nearly as well." "I'm almost finished,
colonel," was the reply, "and it isn't worth while to move now. Those fellows can't hit me,
for they've been trying it these fifteen minutes." Just then, a round-shot gave the lie to
his prediction by cutting him in two; and, according to their custom, the French gunners set
up a shout of triumph at their successful practice. Some of the Connaughters, who had never
lost sight of their native bogs till exported to the Peninsula, understood little or no English
beyond the words of command. On an inspection parade, one of this class was asked by General
Mackinnon, to whose squad he belonged. Bewildered and puzzled, Darby Rooney applied to his
sergeant for a translation of the general's question--thus conveying to the latter an idea
that this was the first time he had heard such a thing as a squad spoken of. The story got
abroad--was, of course, much embellished--and an hour afterwards the third division was enjoying
a prodigious chuckle at the notion that not one of the Connaughters knew what a squad meant.
The young men laughed, the old officers shook their heads and deplored the benighted state
of the Irishmen; whilst all the time, Mr Grattan assures us, "the Eighty-eighth was a more
really efficient regiment than almost any two corps in the third division." As efficient as
any they undoubtedly were, when fighting was to be done; but in some other respects their conduct
was less irreproachable. According to their historian and advocate's own showing, their knapsacks
were often too light and their havresacks too heavy. "A watchcoat, a piece of pipe-clay, and
a button-brush," compose rather a scanty kit: yet those three articles formed--with the exception
of the clothes he stood in--the entire wardrobe and means of personal adornment of the Rooney
above-named; and many of his comrades were scarce better provided. But if the back was neglected
and left bare, the belly, on the contrary, was cared for with vigilant affection. On occasion,
the Eighty-eighth could do their work on meagre diet as well, or better than any other corps.
They would march two days on a pipe of tobacco; or for a week, with the addition of a biscuit
and a dram. But when they did such things, it was no sign of any abstract love of temperance,
or wish to mortify the flesh; it was simply a token of the extreme poverty of the district
in which they found themselves. For the article provend they always kept a bright look-out.
A greasy havresack, especially on the line of march, is the soldier's first desideratum; and
it was rare that a very respectable workhouse soup could not have been produced by infusing
that of a Connaughter in a proper quantity of water. When rations were scanty, or commissaries
lagged in the rear, none understood better than the Eighty-eighth how to forage for themselves.
"Every man his own quartermaster" was then their motto. Nothing came amiss to them; sweet or
savoury, from a pig to a bee-hive, they sacked every thing; and their "taking ways" were often
cast in their teeth. The natives were compelled to mount guard over their sheepfolds; but the
utmost force they could muster was of small avail against the resolute onslaught of the half-famished
Irishmen. Even the exertions of the Provost-marshal, and the liberal application of the cat,
proved ineffectual to check these depredations; whilst the whimsical arguments used by the
fellows in their defence sometimes disarmed the severity of Picton himself.

It would have been quite out of character for an Irish regiment to march without ladies in
their train, and accordingly the female following of the Rangers was organised on the most
liberal scale. Motley as it was numerous, it included, besides English and Irish women, a fair
sprinkling of tender-hearted Spaniards and Portuguese, who had been unable to resist the fascinations
of the insinuating Connaughters. The sufferings of these poor creatures, on long marches, over
bad roads and in wet and cold seasons, were of course terrible, and only to be equalled by
their fidelity to those to whom they had attached themselves. Their endurance of fatigue was
wonderful; their services were often great; and many a soldier, stretched disabled on the field
of some bloody battle, and suffering from the terrible thirst attendant on wounds, owed his
life to their gentle ministry. In circumstances of danger, they showed remarkable courage.
At the assault of Ciudad Rodrigo, the baggage-guard, eager to share in the fight, deserted
their post and rushed to the trenches. Immediately a host of miscreants--fellows who hung on
the skirts of the army, watching opportunities to plunder--made a dash at the camp, but the
women defended it valiantly, and fairly beat them off. Of course feminine sensibility got a
little blunted by a life of this kind, and it was rarely with very violent emotion that the
ladies saw their husbands go into action. Persuaded of their invincibility, they looked upon
success as certain, and if, unfortunately, the victory left them widows, they deemed a very
short mourning necessary before contracting a new alliance. Now and then a damsel of birth
and breeding would desert the paternal mansion to follow the drum; and Mr Grattan tells a romantic
history of a certain Jacinta Cherito, the beautiful daughter of a wealthy judge, who blacked
her face and tramped off as a cymbal boy under the protection of the drum-major of the Eighty-eighth--a
magnificent fellow, whose gorgeous uniform and imposing cocked hat caused him to be taken by
the Portuguese for nothing less than a general of division. The young lady had not forgotten
to take her jewels with her, and the old judge made a great fuss, and appealed to the colonel,
who requested him to inspect the regiment as it left the town. But the sooty visage and uniform
jacket baffled his penetration, and at the first halt, the drummer and the lady were made one
flesh. Thorp, the lucky bridegroom, was a fine dashing fellow, bent upon distinguishing himself.
He was often wounded, but never missed an engagement, even when his hurts were unhealed. He
fell gloriously at Toulouse, and the next day came the gazette with his promotion to an ensigncy,
which, if it was then of little value to him, was at any rate "a great consolation to his poor
afflicted widow, and the means of reconciling her father to the choice she had made; and her
return once more to her home was a scene of great rejoicing." When the British troops embarked
at Bordeaux, for America and England, a crowd of poor Spanish and Portuguese women, who had
long followed their fortunes and were now forbidden to accompany their husbands and lovers,
watched their departure with tearful eyes. "They were fond and attached creatures, and had
been useful in many ways, and under many circumstances, not only to their husbands, but to
the corps they belonged to generally. Many of them, the Portuguese in particular, had lived
with our men for years, and had borne them children." But the stern rules of the service prevailed.
The battalions bound for America were allowed but a limited number of soldiers' wives, and
the surplus were of necessity left to their fate. Some had money; more were penniless, and
nearly naked. Men and officers were then greatly in arrear, but nevertheless a subscription
was got up, and its amount divided amongst the unfortunates, thus abandoned upon a foreign
shore, and at many hundreds of miles from their homes.

General Picton was a man of action, not of words. There was no palaver about him, nothing superfluous
in the way of orations, but he spoke strongly and to the point. Long harangues, as Mr Grattan
justly observes, are not necessary to British soldiers. Metaphor and flowers of rhetoric are
thrown away upon them. Something plain, pithy, and appropriate is what they like; the shorter
the better. "Rangers of Connaught!" said Picton, as he passed the Eighty-eighth, drawn up for
the assault of Ciudad Rodrigo, "it is not my intention to expend any powder this evening. We'll
do this business with the cold iron." This was a very unpretending speech; nothing of the clap-trap
or melodramatic about it; a mere declaration in the fewest possible words, of the speaker's
intentions, implying what he expected from those he addressed. That it was just what was wanted,
was proved by the hearty respondent cheer of the brave Irishmen. The result of the attack is
well known; the Rangers took a gallant share in it. The next morning the troops were ordered
out of the captured town, which they had ransacked to some purpose, and the Eighty-eighth,
drawn up on their bivouac ground, were about to march away to the village of Atalaya, when
Picton again rode past. "Some of the soldiers, who were more than usually elevated in spirits,"
(they had passed the night in bursting open doors and drinking brandy,) "called out, 'Well,
General, we gave you a cheer last night: it's your turn now!' The general smiled, took off
his hat, and said, 'Here, then, you drunken set of brave rascals--hurrah! we'll soon be at
Badajoz.'" A prophecy which was not long unaccomplished. With all deference to Mr Grattan,
we cannot but think that the Eighty-eighth were very appropriately placed under Picton's orders.
Excellent fighting men though they were, they certainly, according to their champion's own
showing, needed a strict hand over them. We should like to know how they would have got on
under such an officer as Mr Grattan tells us of, who, when in command of a regiment, came to
mess one day in very low spirits, because, having sent his adjutant to inquire of an ensign
why he did not attend parade, the ensign returned no answer, and, on subsequently meeting his
commanding officer, cut him dead. The colonel told the story at the mess-table, and concluded
by saying, "I thought nothing of his not answering my message, but I cannot express how much
I am hurt at the idea of his cutting me as he did when I wished to speak to him!" Field-officers
of such susceptible feelings, and such very loose ideas on the subject of discipline, were
not plentiful in the Peninsula, and this one, we are given to understand, did not long retain
his regiment. He would hardly have done at the head of the high-spirited Connaughters. But
if Picton's severity to the men of the Eighty-eighth may be justified, his neglect of the officers
is far more difficult to excuse. "Not one of them was ever promoted through his recommendation."
The conduct of Lieutenant Mackie at Ciudad Rodrigo was chivalrous in the extreme. General Mackinnon--who
commanded the brigade and was blown to pieces at its head by the explosion of a mine--wished
to confer a mark of distinction on the gallant Eighty-eighth, and ordered that one of its subalterns
should lead the forlorn-hope. The moment this was announced to the assembled officers, "Mackie
stepped forward, and lowering his sword, said, 'Major Thompson, I am ready for that service.'"
Mackinnon had promised a company to the forlorn-hope leader, if he survived. But it must be
observed that Mackie was senior lieutenant, and consequently sure of early promotion. The Eighty-eighth
was to be in the van at the assault, and the probabilities were that at least one captain would
be knocked off. Or, if not that day, it would happen the next. So that Mackie, in volunteering
on the most desperate of all services, could have little to actuate him beyond an honourable
desire for glory. How was he repaid? Gurwood, who led the forlorn-hope at the lesser breach,
got his company; Mackie remained a lieutenant--no captain of the Eighty-eighth having been
killed, and General Mackinnon not being alive to fulfil his promise. And whilst all the other
officers who had been forward in the attack, had their names recorded in Picton's division-order,
poor Mackie was denied even the word of barren praise so gratifying to a soldier's heart.

The loss of Ciudad Rodrigo was a stunning blow to the French. They could not understand it
at all. Herrasti and his Spaniards had held out the place a month against Ney and Massena,
with thirty or forty thousand veterans, and that in fine weather, a great advantage to the
besiegers--in eleven days, and in the depth of winter, Wellington reduced it, with twenty thousand
men and opposed by a French garrison. The contrast was great, and quite inexplicable to the
French. There is something so incomprehensible in this event, that I allow myself no observation.
I am not provided with the requisite information." No testimony could be more complimentary
to the brave captors of Rodrigo. That great success, however, was only a forerunner of greater
ones. Badajoz was the next place to be taken, preparatory to marching into the interior of
Spain. To conceal his intentions from the enemy, Wellington had recourse to an elaborate stratagem.
A powerful battering train, supplied by the men of war in the Tagus, was shipped at Lisbon,
on board vessels of large size, which put out to sea, and, when out of sight of land, transhipped
their cargo into smaller craft. These carried them up the Tagus into the heart of the country.
At the same time the necessary magazines were formed; and at Elvas, only three leagues from
Badajoz, a large quantity of fascines and gabions were prepared. All this, however, was done
so quietly, Wellington appeared so supine, and Badajoz was so well provided, that Soult was
lulled into security; and when at last he took the alarm, and marched from Seville at the head
of twenty-five thousand men, it was too late. Philippon, and his brave garrison, did all that
skill and courage could; but in vain. When Soult reached Villafranca, two days' march from
Badajoz, the fortress had already been two days in the power of the English. This, to the French,
was another unaccountable business; they, even yet, had not learned fully to appreciate the
sovereign virtues of British bayonets. "I think the capture of Badajoz a very extraordinary
event," Lery, Soult's chief engineer, wrote to General Kellerman, "and I am much at a loss
to account for it in a clear and distinct manner." This comes at the end of a mysterious sort
of epistle, in which the engineer general talks of fatality, and seems to think that the British
had no right to take Badajoz, defended as it was. But Wellington and his army were great despisers
of that sort of right, and, in spite of the really glorious defence, in spite of the strategy
of the governor and the valour of the garrison, of chevaux de frise of sword-blades, and of
the deadly accuracy of the French artillery and musketeers, Badajoz was taken. The triumph
was fearfully costly. Nearly four thousand five hundred men fell on the side of the besiegers;--Picton's
division was reduced to a skeleton, and the Connaught Rangers lost more than half their numbers.

Shot through the body at Badajoz, Mr Grattan was left there when his division marched away.
He gives a terrible account of the sacking of the town; but on such details, even had they
not been many times recapitulated, it is not pleasant to dwell. The frightful crimes perpetrated
during those two days of unbridled excess and violence, rest at the door of the man whose boundless
ambition occasioned that most desolating war. From an ignorant and sensual soldiery, excited
to madness by a prolonged resistance, and by one of the most sanguinary conflicts recorded
in the history of sieges, forbearance could hardly be expected. The horrible saturnalia, in
which murder and rape, pillage and intoxication, are pushed to their utmost limits, are the
necessary condition of a successful assault on a desperately defended fortress; and supposing
them prohibited, and that such prohibition could be enforced, we agree with Mr Grattan in believing
that many a town that has been victoriously carried, might have been found impregnable. But
one must ever deplore the disgraceful scenes enacted in the streets and houses of Badajoz,
Ciudad Rodrigo, and St Sebastian. Unsurpassed in atrocity, they remain everlasting blots upon
the bright laurels gathered by the British in the Peninsula. And it is small palliation, that
under similar circumstances, the armies of all nations have acted in like manner. Here the
sufferers were not enemies. To the garrison, when their resistance ceased, quarter was given;
they were marched away scatheless, and treated with that humanity which England, notwithstanding
the lying assertions of foreign historians, has ever used towards her prisoners. No, the victims
were friends and allies. The very nation in whose behalf our soldiers had fought, saw their
houses ransacked, their property wasted, their wives and daughters brutally outraged, by those
whose mission was to protect and defend. Let us hope they have forgotten, or at least forgiven,
such gloomy episodes in the struggle for their liberation.

The advocates of universal peace might adduce many potent and practical arguments in favour
of their doctrine from the pages of Mr Grattan's book. He is unsparing in his details of the
inevitable horrors of war; and some of his descriptions, persons of tender hearts and sensitive
nerves will do well to pass over. They may be read with profit by those who, accustomed to
behold but the sunny side of military life, think too lightly of the miseries war entails.
Let such accompany Mr Grattan though the streets of Badajoz, on the morning of the 7th April,
1812, and into the temporary hospital of Villa Formosa, after the fierce conflict of Fuentes
d'Onore, where two hundred soldiers still awaited, twenty-four hours after the action, the
surgeons' leisure, for the amputation of their limbs. Let them view with him the piles of unsuccoured
wounded on the breach of Badajoz, and hear the shrieks and groans of men dying in helpless
agony, without a friendly hand to prop their head, or a drop of water to cool their fevered
lips. From such harrowing scenes it is pleasant to turn to the more humane and redeeming features
of civilised warfare, and to note the courteous and amicable relations that existed between
the contending armies when, as sometimes happened, they lay near together without coming to
blows. This occurred previously to the battle of Salamanca. From the 3d to the 12th of July,
the French and British were in presence of each other, encamped on either side the Douro, at
that season little more than a rivulet. Of course all were on the alert; there was no laxity
or negligence that could tempt to surprise; but neither was there any useless skirmishing or
picket firing; every thing was conducted in the most gentlemanly and correct manner. The soldiers
bathed together and exchanged their rations, and the officers were on equally good terms. "The
part of the river of which I speak was occupied, on our side, by the Third division; on the
French side by the Seventh division. The French officers said to us at parting, 'We have met,
and have been for some time friends. We are about to separate, and may meet as enemies. As
friends we received each other warmly; as enemies we shall do the same.' Ten days afterwards
the British Third and the French Seventh division were opposed to each other at Salamanca,
and the Seventh French was destroyed by the British Third." Mr Grattan's wound was healed in
ample time for him to assist at the battle of Salamanca; a glorious victory, which would have
been even more complete had the British been properly seconded by their Portuguese allies.
The behaviour of these was any thing but creditable to their nation. One detachment of caçadores
actually threw themselves on their faces to avoid the enemy's fire, and not all the blows showered
on them by their commander, Major Haddock, could induce them to exchange their recumbent attitude
for one more dignified. Notwithstanding this, and the more fatal feebleness of Pack's brigade,
the French were totally beaten, and their loss was nearly four times that of the British. Lord
Wellington's opinion of the battle--a particularly honourable one to our troops, inasmuch as
they not only fought better, but (which was not always the case) moved and manoeuvred better,
than the picked veterans of the French army--is sufficiently shown by the fact that "he selected
it in preference to all his other victories, as the most fitting to be fought over in sham-fight
on the plains of St Denis, in the presence of the three crowned heads who occupied Paris after
the second abdication of the Emperor Napoleon, in 1815."

At Salamanca, the right brigade of the Third division, including the Connaught Rangers, charged
the entire division of the French General Thomière. So awful was the volley that welcomed them,
that more than half the officers, and nearly the whole front rank, were swept away. Doubtless
the French thought this would prove a sickener, for great was their consternation when, before
the smoke had well cleared away, they saw the shattered but dauntless brigade advancing fiercely
and steadily upon them. Panic-stricken, they wavered; "the three regiments ran onward, and
the mighty phalanx, which a moment before was so formidable, loosened and fell in pieces before
fifteen hundred invincible British soldiers fighting in a line of only two deep." In this memorable
charge, the standard-pole of the Eighty-eighth was struck by a bullet, the same that killed
Major Murphy, who commanded the battalion. New colours have since been presented to the regiment,
but the wounded pole is still preserved, and on it is engraved, on a plate of silver, the day
and the manner of its mutilation.

An advance on Madrid was consequent on the triumph at Salamanca, and on the 12th of August,
Wellington and his army reached the Spanish capital. Their entrance has often been described,
but in default of novelty, Mr Grattan's account of it possesses spirit and interest. It was
one of those scenes that repay soldiers for months of fatigue and danger. The troops were almost
carried into the city in the arms of the delighted populace. The steady, soldier-like bearing
of the men, the appearance of the officers, nearly all mounted, inspired respect and increased
the general enthusiasm. For miles from Madrid, the road was thronged; when the army got into
the streets, it was no longer possible to preserve the order of march. The ranks were broken
by the pressure of the crowd, and the officers (lucky dogs!) were half-smothered in the embraces
of the charming Madrileñas. Young and old, ugly and handsome, all came in for their share of
hugs and kisses. Still, although patriotism impelled the Spanish fair to look with favour upon
the scarlet-coated Britons, the painful confession must be made that as individuals they gave
the preference to the lively, light-hearted Frenchmen. Napoleon was the fiend himself, incarnate
in the form of an under-sized Corsican, and the gavachos were his imps, whom it was praise-worthy
to shoot at from behind every hedge, and to poniard whenever the opportunity offered. Such
was the creed inculcated by the priests, and devoutly entertained by their petticoated penitents--that
is to say, by every Christian woman in the Peninsula. But somehow or other, when French regiments
were quartered in Spanish towns, the female part of the population forgot the anathemas of
their spiritual consolers, and looked complacently upon those they were enjoined to abhor.
It was a case of "nos amis les ennemis," and the French, beaten every where in the field, obtained
facile and frequent triumphs in the boudoir. "It is a singular fact, and I look upon it as
a degrading one," says Mr Grattan with diverting seriousness, "that the French officers, whilst
at Madrid, made in the ratio of five to one more conquests than we did." The dignity of the
admission might be questioned; the degree of degradation is matter of opinion; the singularity
is explained away by Mr Grattan himself. He blames his comrades for their stiff, unbending
manners, and for their non-conformance to the customs of the country. They were nearly three
months at Madrid, and yet he declares that, at the end of that time, they knew little more
of the inhabitants than of the citizens of Pekin. And he opines that the impression left in
Spain by the Peninsular army was rather one of respect for their courage, than of admiration
of their social graces and general affability. If Mr Grattan, whilst reposing at ease upon
his well-earned bays, would devise and promulgate an antidote to the mixture of shyness, reserve,
and hauteur, which renders Englishmen, wherever they travel, the least popular of the European
family, he would have a claim on his country's gratitude stronger even than the one he established
whilst defending her with his sword in the well-contested fields of the Peninsula. Notwithstanding,
however, the unamiability with which he reproaches his companions in arms, there was much fun
and feasting, and sauntering in the Prado, and bull-fighting and theatre-going, whilst the
British were at Madrid. But it was too pleasant to last long. The best a soldier can expect
in war-time, is an alternation of good quarters and severe hardship. The "quart-d'heure de
Rabelais" was at hand, when all the dancing, drinking, masking, and other pleasant things should
be paid for, and the brief enjoyment forgotten, amidst the sufferings of the most painful retreat--excepting,
of course, that of Corunna--effected by a British army during the whole war. We refer to the
retrograde movement that followed the unsuccessful siege of Burgos.

The high reputation of the British soldier rests far more upon his arms than upon his legs;
in other words, he is a fighting rather than a marching man. Slowness of movement, in the field
as on the route, is the fault that has most frequently been imputed to him. One thing is pretty
generally admitted; that, to work well, he must be well fed. And even then he will hardly get
over the ground as rapidly, or endure fatigue as long, as the lean lathy Frenchman, who has
never known the liberal rations and fat diet the other is accustomed to. When a certain period
of active service and long marches has given the English soldier his campaigning legs, he must
still have his regular grog, or he soon flags, if he does not grumble and become insubordinate.
Rations were bad, and hard to be got, on the retreat from Burgos. Then, Mr Grattan tells us,
the superior marching qualities of the Irish were manifest. There had been very little beef-steak
and bacon expended in their bringing up; scanty fare was nothing new to them, and by no means
affected their gaiety and good-humour. And when shoes were scarce, what cared they? The stones
in Connaught are not a bit softer than those in Spain; and nine-tenths of the boys had trotted
about, from infancy upwards, with "divel a brogue, save the one on their tongues." Some of
the English regiments--the Forty-fifth for instance, chiefly composed of Nottingham weavers--would,
under ordinary circumstances, march as well as any Irishman of them all: "But if it came to
a hard tug, and that we had neither rations nor shoes, then, indeed, the Connaught Rangers
would be in their element, and out-march almost any battalion in the service." On the retreat
from Burgos to Portugal, they gave proof of their toughness and endurance; for whilst other
regiments were decimated by fatigue and sickness, the Eighty-eighth scarcely lost a man, except
by the enemy's fire. It was a time when the good qualities of all were severely tested. The
movement began in a most unfavourable season. The roads were nearly impassable from heavy rains,
and for days together there was not a dry jacket in the army. At night they lay in the open
country, often in a swamp, without a tent to shelter them; the baggage was detached, and they
never saw it till they reached Ciudad Rodrigo. It was share and share alike amongst men and
officers, and many of the latter were mere striplings, who had but lately left the comforts
of their English homes. When they halted from their weary day's march, the ill-conditioned
beasts collected for rations had to be slaughtered; sometimes they came too late to be of any
use, or the camp-kettles did not arrive in time to cook them; and the famished soldiers had
to set out again, with a few pieces of dry biscuit rattling in their neglected stomachs, and
driven to satisfy the cravings of hunger with the acorns that strewed the forests. There was
little money afloat, for pay was four months in arrear, but millions would have been useless
where there was nothing to buy. The country was deserted; every where the inhabitants fled
on the approach of the two armies. Disease was the natural consequence of so many privations;
ague and dysentery undermined the men's strength, and many poor fellows, unable to proceed,
were left upon the road. Horses died by hundreds, and those which held out were for the most
part sore-backed, one of the greatest calamities that can happen to cavalry and artillery on
the march. Fortunately Soult, who, with ninety thousand men, followed the harassed army, had
some experience of British troops. And what he had seen of them, especially at Albuera and
on the Corunna retreat, had inspired him with a salutary respect for their prowess. They might
retreat, but he knew what they could and would do when driven to stand at bay. And therefore,
although Wellington was by no means averse to fight, and actually offered his antagonist battle
on the very ground where, four months previously, that of Salamanca had occurred, the wary
Duke of Dalmatia declined the contest. He played a safe game: without risking a defeat by a
general action, or attempting to drive the British before him with the bayonet, he hovered
about their rear, disquieted them by a flank movement of part of his force, and had the satisfaction
of knowing that their loss by the casualties and fatigues of the march and inclemency of the
weather, was as great as it would probably have been had he engaged them. For, besides those
who perished on the road, when the army got into winter quarters, a vast number of men and
officers went into hospital, and months elapsed before the troops were fully reorganised and
fit for the field. At a day's march from Ciudad Rodrigo, Wellington's rear-guard had a smart
skirmish, and then Soult desisted from his pursuit, and the Anglo-Portuguese were allowed to
proceed without further molestation. Although disastrous, and in some respects ill managed,
the retreat was in no way disgraceful. The French, very superior in numbers, had, whenever
they pressed forward, been bravely met, and invariably repulsed.

With this retreat, Mr Grattan's Peninsular campaigns closed. He returned to Ireland, and in
the summer of 1814, embarked for Canada. He rather refers to, than records the service he saw
there; taking occasion, however, for a strong censure on Sir George Prevost, who, after forcing
our ill-appointed fleet on Lake Champlain into action, refused to allow Brisbane and his brigade
of "Peninsulars" to take the fort of Platsburgh, an enterprise easy of achievement, and which
would have placed the captured ships, and the victorious but disabled American flotilla, at
the mercy of the British. But we have not space to follow the Ranger across the Atlantic, nor
is it essential so to do; for, although he gives some amusing sketches of Canada and the Canadians,
the earlier portion of his book is by far the most interesting, and certainly the most carefully
written. We could almost quarrel with him for defacing his second volume with perpetual and
not very successful attempts at wit. We have rarely met with more outrageous specimens of punning
run mad, than are to be found in its pages. Barring that fault, we have nothing but what is
favourable to say of the book. Its tone is manly, and soldier-like, and it is creditable both
to the writer and to the service, by which, during the last thirty years, our stores of military
and historical literature have been so largely and agreeably increased.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Adventures of the Connaught Rangers, from 1808 to 1814. By W. GRATTAN, Esq. London. 1847.

LORD SIDMOUTH'S LIFE AND TIME.[4]

To read a memoir of the late Lord Sidmouth, is like taking a walk through Westminster Abbey.
All the literature, is inscriptions; all the figures are monumental; and all the names are
those of men whose characters and distinctions have been echoing in our ears since we had the
power to understand national renown. The period between 1798, when the subject of this memoir
made his first step in parliamentary life as Speaker, and 1815, when the close of the war so
triumphantly finished the long struggle between liberty and jacobinism, was beyond all comparison
the most memorable portion of British history.

In this estimate, we fully acknowledge the imperishable fame of Marlborough in the field, and
the high ability of Bolingbroke in the senate. The gallantry of Wolfe still throws its lustre
over the concluding years of the second George; and the brilliant declamation of Chatham will
exact the tribute due to daring thought, and classic language, so long as oratory is honoured
among men. But the age which followed was an age of realities, stern, stirring, and fearful.
There was scarcely a trial of national fortitude, or national Vigour, through which the sinews
of England were not then forced to give proof of their highest power of endurance. All was
a struggle of the elements; in which every shroud and tackle of the royal ship of England was
strained; and the tempest lasted through nearly a quarter of a century. England, the defender
of all, was the sufferer for all. Every principle of her financial prosperity, every material
of her military prowess, every branch of her constitutional system, every capacity of her political
existence, her Church, her State, and her Legislature, were successively compelled into the
most perilous yet most powerful display; and the close of the most furious hostility which
Europe had ever seen, only exhibited in a loftier point of view the victorious strength which
principle confers upon a people.

Compared with this tremendous scene, the political conflicts of the preceding age were a battle
on the stage, compared with the terrors of the field. The spectators came to enjoy a Spectacle,
and sit tranquilly admiring the brilliancy of the caparisons and the dexterity of the charge;
but perfectly convinced that all would end without harm to the champions, and that the fall
of the curtain would extinguish the war. But, in the trials of the later time, there were moments
when we seemed to be throwing our last stake; when the trumpets of Europe, leagued against
us, seemed to be less challenging us to the field, than preceding us to the tomb; and when
the last hope of the wise and good might be, to give the last manifestation of a life of patriotic
virtue.

In language like this, we are not abasing the national courage. We are paying the fullest homage
to the substantial claims of the English heart. It is only by the severest national struggles
that the superiority of national powers can be developed; and without doubting the qualities
of the Marlboroughs and Chathams--or even without doubting, that if thrown into the battle
of the last fifty years, they would have exhibited the same intellectual stature and powerful
adroitness which distinguished their actual displays--yet they wanted the strong necessities
of a time like ours, to place them on a similar height of renown. Still their time continues
in admirable study. But it is like the story of the Volscian and Samnite combats, read in the
day when the consul, flying through the streets of Rome, brought the news of Cannæ.

The wars and politics of the eighteenth century were the manoeuvres of a garde du corps, and
the intrigues of a boudoir. Our fathers saw no nation of thirty millions rushing to the field;
frantic with the passion for overthrow, no Napoleon thundering at the head of vassal Europe
against England; no conspiracy of peoples against thrones; no train of crouching sovereignties,
half in terror and half in servility, ready to do the wildest will of the wildest despot of
the world; no army of five hundred thousand men ready to spring upon our shores, and turning
off only to the overthrow of empires. All was on a smaller scale; the passions feebler, the
means narrower, the objects more trivial, the triumphs more temporary, the catastrophe more
powerless, and the glory more vanishing.

All has since subsided; and the mind of man is turned to efforts in directions totally new.
All now is the rigid struggle with the physical difficulties of society. The grand problems
are, how to level the mountain, and to drain the sea: or, if we must leave the Alps to be still
the throne of the thunder, and suffer even the Zuyder-zee to roll its sullen waves over its
incorrigible shallows; yet to tunnel the mountain and pass the sea with a rapidity, which makes
us regardless of the interposition of obstacles that once stopped the march of armies, and
made the impregnable fortresses of kingdoms. But the still severer trials of human intelligence
are, how to clothe, feed, educate, and discipline the millions which every passing year pours
into the world. The mind may well be bewildered with a prospect so vast, so vivid, and yet
so perplexing. Every man sees that old things are done away, that physical force is resuming
its primitive power over the world, and that we are approaching a time when Mechanism will
have the control of nature, and Multitude the command of society.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are many families in England which, without any change of circumstances, without any
increase of fortune, or any discoverable vicissitudes, have existed for centuries, in possession
of the same property, generally a small one, and handed down from father to son as if by a
law of nature. The family of Lord Sidmouth is found to have held the proprietorship of the
small estate of Fringford, in Oxfordshire, from the year 1600, and to have had a residence
in Bannebury about a century and a half before;--the first descendant of this quiet race who
became known beyond the churchyard where "his village fathers sleep," being Dr Addington, who
died in 1799. Genealogies like those give a striking view of the general security of landed
possession, which the habits of national integrity, and the influence of law, must alone have
effected, during the turbulent times which so often changed the succession to the throne of
England.

Dr Addington, who had been educated at Winchester school, and Trinity College, Oxford, having
adopted medicine as his profession, commenced his practice at Reading, where he married the
daughter of the Rev. Dr Niley, head-master of the grammar-school. The well-known trial of the
wretched parricide, Miss Blandy, for poisoning, in which he was a principal witness, brought
him into considerable notice; and probably on the strength of this notice, he removed to London,
and took a house in Bedford Row, where the late Lord Sidmouth, his fourth child, but eldest
son, was born. He next removed to Clifford Street, a more fashionable quarter, which brought
him into intercourse with many persons of distinction. Among these were Louth, Bishop of London,
the Duke of Montagu, Earl Rivers, and, first of the first, the great Earl of Chatham. With
this distinguished man, Dr Addington seems to have been on terms of familiar friendship, as
the following extracts show:--Chatham writes from Burton Pynsent, in 1771.

"All your friends here, the flock of your care, are truly sensible of the kind attentions of
the good shepherd. My last fit of the gout left me as it had visited me, very kindly. I am
many hours every day in the field, and, as I live like a farmer abroad, I return home and eat
like one. * *

"Ale goes on admirably, and agrees perfectly. My reverence for it, too, is increased, having
just read in the manners of our remotest Celtic ancestors much of its antiquity and invigorating
qualities. The boys all long for ale, seeing papa drink it, but we do not try such an experiment.
Such is the force of example, that I find I must watch myself in all I do, for fear of misleading.
If your friend William saw me smoke, he would certainly call for a pipe."

Lord Chatham died May 11th, 1788, which event was thus notified by Dr Addington to his son Henry.

"You will be grieved to hear that Lord Chatham is no more. It pleased Providence to take him
away this morning, as if it were in mercy that he might not be a spectator of the total ruin
of a country which he was not permitted to save."

The doctor was a croaker, as was the fashion of the time, with all who pretended to peculiar
political sagacity. Of course the family physician of the ex-minister was in duty bound to
echo the ex-minister's discontent. It is clear that, whatever professional gifts the doctor
inherited from Apollo, he did not share the gift of prophecy. The doctor, after realising enough
by his profession to purchase an estate in Devonshire, retired to Reading, where, in 1790,
he died, having had, in the year before, the enviable gratification of seeing his son elected
to the Speakership of the House of Commons.

Henry Viscount Sidmouth was born in 1757, on the 30th of May. At the age of five years, he
was placed under the care of the Rev. William Gilpin, author of the Essays on the Picturesque,
who for many years kept a school at Cheam, in Surrey.

Lord Sidmouth had but one brother, Hiley, who subsequently figured so often in the caustic
rhymes of Canning, and who, under his brother's auspices, was successively secretary of the
treasury, paymaster of the forces, and under-secretary of state. In his twelfth year, Henry,
followed by Hiley, was sent to Winchester, then under the government of the well-known Dr Joseph
Wharton, with George Isaac Huntingford as one of the assistants.

The author of the biography gives Huntingford credit for the singular degree of attachment
exhibited in his occasional letters to his pupil. It certainly seems singular; when we know
the slenderness, if not sternness of the connexion generally subsisting between the teachers
at a great English seminary, and the pupils. In one of those epistles Huntingford says to this
boy of fifteen.

"For my own part, to you I lay open my whole heart without reserve. I divest myself of the
little superiority which age may have given me. With you I can enter into conversation with
all the familiarity of an intimate companion. The few hours of intercourse which we thus enjoy
with each other give more relief to my wearied body and mind than any other amusement on earth.
What I am to do when you leave school, a melancholy thought, I cannot foresee. May the evil
hour be postponed as late as possible. Yet let me add, whenever it shall be most for your advantage
to leave me, I will not doubt to sacrifice my own peace and comfort for your interest. I love
myself, but you better."

We hope that this style is not much in fashion in our public schools. Dean Pellew tells us
that numerous letters of this kind were written by this tutor to his pupil in after life, and
adds with a ludicrous solemnity, "It will readily be imagined how efficacious they must have
proved, in forming the character of the future statesman, and erecting Spartan and Roman virtues
on the noble foundation of Christianity."

For our part, we know not what to make of such communications: they seem to us intolerably
silly, and we think ought not to have been published. In later life, their writer was made
Bishop of Hereford and Warden of Winchester. He seems to have been a fellow of foresight!

In 1773, Henry and Hiley were both removed from Winchester, and put under the tuition of Dr
Goodenough, who took private pupils at Ealing, and who was afterwards Bishop of Carlisle. In
the next year, Henry entered as commoner in Brazen-Nose College under the tuition of Radcliffe,
then a tutor of some celebrity. In this college he became acquainted with Abbot, afterwards
Lord Colchester, and William Scott, afterwards Lord Stowell. He took his degree in 1778, and
in this year had the misfortune to lose his mother, who seems to have been an amiable and sensible
person. In the next year, he obtained the Chancellor's prize for an English essay on "the affinity
between painting and writing in point of composition;" and at the recital of this essay in
the theatre he first became acquainted with Lord Mornington, afterwards Marquis Wellesley,
an intimacy which lasted for sixty-two years. He now adopted law as his profession, took chambers
in Paper Buildings, and kept his terms regularly at Lincoln's Inn. In 1781, he married Ursula
Mary, eldest daughter and co-heiress of Leonard Hammond, Esq. of Cheam, in Surrey, and took
a house in Southampton Street, Bloomsbury, where he determined to follow the profession of
the law. But this determination was speedily over-ruled by the success of the celebrated son
of Chatham. On the 26th of February, 1781, William Pitt, then only in his twenty-second year,
made his first speech in the House of Commons, in support of Burke's bill for the regulation
of the civil list. This epoch in parliamentary annals is noticed in a brief letter from Dr
Goodenough to Pitt's early tutor, Wilson, who sent it to Mr Addington, among whose papers it
was found:--

"Dear Sir,--I cannot resist the natural impulse of giving pleasure, by telling you that the
famous William Pitt, who made so capital a figure in the last reign, is happily restored to
his country. He made his first public re-appearance in the senate last night. All the old members
recognised him instantly, and most of the young ones said he appeared the very man they had
so often heard described: the language, the manner, the gesture, the action were the same;
and there wanted only a few wrinkles in the face, and some marks of age, to identify the absolute
person of the late Earl of Chatham."

Addington, at this period, had a good deal of intercourse with Pitt, who became Chancellor
of the Exchequer at the age of twenty-three, and whose brilliant success in parliament evidently
stimulated his friend to political pursuits. But the infamous coalition broke in, and Pitt
was dismissed from the ministry. Its existence, however, was brief: it not merely fell, but
was crushed amidst a universal uproar of national scorn; and Pitt, not yet twenty-five, was
appointed prime minister. In the course of the month, an interview took place between Pitt
and Addington, which gave his friends strong hopes of seeing him in immediate office. His friend
Bragge thus writes to him:

"I give you joy of the effects of the interview of last Sunday, of which I am impatient to
hear the particulars. Secretary, either official or confidential, I should wish you, and indeed
all the boards are already filled."

Still, he remained unappointed, though his intimacy with the minister grew more confidential
from day to day. Pitt was at this time engaged in a desperate struggle with the Opposition,
who, ruined as they were in character, yet retained an overwhelming majority in parliament.
On this occasion, the young statesman gave perhaps the most triumphant evidence of his remarkable
sagacity. Every one was astonished, that he had not at once dissolved a parliament which it
seemed impossible for him either to convince or conquer. But, with the House of Lords strongly
disposed towards him, and the King for his firm friend, Pitt fought the House night after night,
until he found the national feeling wholly on his side. Then, on the 25th of March, 1784, he
dissolved the parliament, and by that act extinguished the whole power of Whiggism for twenty
years. There never was a defeat more ruinous; more than a hundred and sixty members, who had
generally been of the Foxite party, were driven ignominiously from their seats, and the party
was thenceforth condemned to linger in an opposition equally bitter, fruitless, and unpopular.
In the new parliament, Addington was returned for the borough of Devizes in place of Sutton,
his brother-in-law, who, being advanced in life, made over his interest to his young relative.
On this occasion, he received a letter from his old master, Joseph Wharton:--

"I cannot possibly forbear expressing to you the sincere pleasure I feel, in giving you joy
of being elected into a parliament that I hope and trust will save this country from destruction,
by crushing the most shameful and the most pernicious coalition that I think ever disgraced
the annals of any kingdom, ancient or modern. I am, dear sir, with true regard, yours, &c.--JOSEPH
WHARTON."

There are few more remarkable instances of contrasted character and circumstance than Addington's
ultimate rise to power. The anecdote is mentioned, that on one occasion, when they were riding
together to Holl Wood, then Mr Pitt's seat near Bromley in Kent, that on Pitt's urging him
to follow up politics with vigour, and the latter alleging in excuse the distaste and disqualification
for public life created by early habits and natural disposition, Pitt burst forth in the following
quotation from Waller:--

    "The lark that shuns on lofty boughs to build
    Her humble nest, lies silent in the field:
    But should the promise of a brighter day,
    Aurora smiling, bid her rise and play;
    Quickly she'll show 'twas not for want of voice,
    Or power to climb, she made so low a choice:
    Singing she mounts, her airy notes are stretch'd
    Towards heav'n, as if from heav'n alone her notes she fetch'd."

With these words, he set spurs to his horse, and left his companion to ponder on the moral
of the poetry.

But neither poetry nor prose could inspire Addington's mind with the ardour of his glowing
friend. Parliament was indeed open to him, but the true gate to parliamentary distinction would
never have been opened by his own hand. There are two kinds of speaking, and but two, which
ever make distinguished way in the House. The first is, that superior order which alone deserves
the name of eloquence, and which must carry distinction with it wherever men are gathered together.
The next is, that adroit and practical style of speaking by which the details of public business
are carried forward; a style which requires briskness of capacity, united to extent of information,
and in which the briskness must not be suffered to become flippant, and the detail to become
dull. We are perfectly confident, that, beyond those two classes, no speaker can ever expect
to retain the ear of the House. Our theory, however, is not the favourite one with that crowd,
whose diatribes nightly fill the columns of the newspapers; where bitterness is perpetually
mistaken for pungency, and petulance for power, dryness for business and commonplace for conviction.
But failure is the inevitable consequence; the archer showers his shafts in vain; they are
pointed with lead, and they always fall blunt on the ground. Some of the noisiest haranguers
of our time utterly "waste their sweetness on the desert air," their hearers drop away with
fatal rapidity, and the orator is reminded of his triumph only by the general flight of his
auditory. Then comes some favourite of the House: the coffee-room is thinned in its turn; the
benches are crowded once more; and some statesmanlike display consoles the House for its lost
time. Addington's habits were those of a student, and he brought them with him into parliament.
In the House of Commons, there are nearly as many classes of character, as there are in life
outside the walls. There are the men made for the operations of public life, bold, active,
and with an original sense of superiority. Another class is made for under-secretaries and
subordinates, sharp, and ingenious men, the real business-men of the House. Another class,
perfectly distinct, is that of the matter-of-fact men, largely recruited from among opulent
merchants, bankers sent from country constituencies, and others of that calibre, who are formidable
on every question of figures, are terrible on tariffs, and evidently think, that there is no
book of wisdom on earth but a ledger. Then come the country gentlemen, generally an excellent
and honest race, but to whom a life in London, in the majority of instances, has a strong resemblance
to a life in the Millbank Penitentiary; driven into parliament, by what is called a "sense
of their position in the country," which generally means the commands of their wives, &c.,
&c., their sojourn within the circuit of the metropolis is a purgatory. They sicken of the
life of lounging through London, where they are nothing, and long to get back to the country
where they are "magistrates;" generally too old to dance, the fashionable season has no charms
for them: even the clubs seem to them a sort of condemned cell, where the crowd, guilty of
unpardonable idleness, cluster together with no earthly resource but gazing into the street,
or poring over a newspaper. If this service is severe enough to shake their philosophy during
the sleety showers of February, and the withering blasts of March; the first break of sunshine,
and the first streak of blue sky, makes their impatience amount to agony. The rest of the season
only renders their suffering more inveterate; until at last the discharge of cannon from the
Park, and the sound of trumpets at the doors of the House of Lords, a gracious speech from
the throne, and a still more gracious smile from the sitter on it, let them loose from their
task, and they are free, facetious, and foxhunters once more. There are still half-a-dozen
other classes, "fine by degrees, and beautifully less," which may be left to the imagination
of the reader, and the experience of the well-bred world.

Addington soon made himself useful on committees. The strong necessities of the case, much
more than the Reform Bill, have remarkably shortened the longevity of election committees.
The committee, in general, was fortunate, which could accomplish its business within three
months. Some took twice the number, some even crossed over from session to session. The first
committee on which Addington was engaged had this unfortunate duration, and he was re-appointed
to it in the second session of the parliament of 1785.

At this period, whether from a sense of disappointment, or from the silent dulness of this
drudgery, his health appears to have been in a feeble state. In a letter to his father, he
apologises for listlessness and stupidity by illness, and says, "that he does not come up to
the definition of man as a risible animal." Yet the man who could live to eighty-seven, and
retain his health in a retirement of nearly a quarter of a century, could not complain of his
constitution.

In 1786 Pitt availed himself of the opening of the session to induce his friend to break ground.
He proposed that he should second the address; and almost condescended to coax him into further
exertion of his abilities.--"I will not disguise," says his letter, "that, in asking this favour
of you, (the speech,) I look beyond the immediate object of the first day's debate; from a
persuasion that whatever induces you to take a part in public, will equally contribute to your
personal credit, and that of the system to which I have the pleasure of thinking you are so
warmly attached. Believe me to be, with great truth and regard, my dear sir, faithfully and
sincerely yours,--W. PITT." Addington complied with a part of the proposal, seconded the Address,
and was considered to have performed his task with effect. But the effort went no farther.
His ability lay in another direction; and though a clear, well-informed, and influential debater
in his more public days, and when the urgency of office compelled the exertion, he left for
four years the honours of debate to the multitude of his competitors.

In the course of the memoir, there is a letter of Addington's, speaking of Sheridan's famous
speech on the Begum question. Addington voted in the majority against Hastings; but, though
he does not exactly say that Sheridan's famous speech was the cause of his vote, he yet joins
in the general acclamation.

It has been the habit of late critics to decry the merits of this famous oration, and even
to charge it with being frivolous, outrageous, and bombastic, an immense accumulation of calumny
and clap-trap, which the craft of Sheridan would not submit to the public ordeal, and which
he has therefore left to its chance of a fantastic and visionary fame. But this we find it
impossible to believe. That in a speech of five hours and a half, there may have been--nay,
there must have been, passages of extravagance, and even errors of taste, is perfectly probable;
but they must have been overcome by countless passages of lustre and beauty,--by powerful conceptions
and brilliant examples of language; at once resistless and refined,--by living descriptions,
and thoughts of daring and dazzling energy, sufficient to have made it one of the most memorable
triumphs of senatorial eloquence in the world. How, on any other supposition, is it possible
to account for the effects which we know it to have produced?

Addington's letter, alluding to this subject, says "The papers will convey but a faint idea
of a speech, which I heard Fox declare to be the most wonderful effort of the human mind that
perhaps had ever been made. Mr Pitt, and indeed the whole House, spoke of it in terms of admiration
and astonishment, scarcely inferior to those of Mr Fox."

The papers, indeed, convey a worse than inadequate idea of this wonderful oration, for they
give merely a few fragments, in which they have contrived either to select their examples with
the most curious infelicity, or to blunder them into bombast. But nothing can be more childish
than to suppose, that Pitt would have given his praise to tawdry metaphor, that Burke would
have done honour to feeble truisms, that Fox should have been unable to distinguish between
logic and looseness of reasoning, or that the whole assembly, who had been in the habit of
hearing those pre-eminent orators, should have been tricked by theatric dexterity or charlatan
rhetoric into homage. The oration must have been a most magnificent performance, and we have
only to deplore the loss of a great work of genius.

Another young phenomenon shot across the parliamentary horizon within the same month. It was
the late Earl Grey. A letter of Addington to his father thus describes the debut of this young
Liberal.

"Feb. 22, 1787.--We had a glorious debate last night, upon the motion for an address of thanks
to the King, for having negotiated the commercial treaty. A new speaker presented himself to
the House, and went through his first performance with an éclat that has not been equalled
within my recollection. His name is Grey; he is not more than twenty-two years of age, and
he took his seat, which is for Northumberland, only in the present session. I do not go too
far in declaring, that in the advantages of figure, elocution, voice, and manner, he is not
surpassed by any one member of the House; and I grieve to say, that he was last night in the
ranks of Opposition, from which there is no prospect of his being detached."

It is curious to see, how easily the exigencies of party mould men, and how readily under that
pressure they unsay their maxims, and retract their principles. The object of the commercial
treaty was, to put our commerce in some degree on a fair footing with that of France. The object
of Mr Grey's rhetoric was, to show that the commercial treaty was altogether a blunder, which,
as being a Tory and ministerial performance, it must be in the eyes of a Whig and an oppositionist.
But the maxim on which he chiefly relied, was the wisdom of that established system of our
policy, in which France had always been regarded with the most suspicious jealousy at least--if
not as our natural foe. Of course this Whig maxim lasted just so long as the Whigs were out
of office, and could use it as a weapon against the Minister. But, from the moment when France
became actually dangerous, when her councils became demoniac, and her factions frenzied, Whiggism,
despairing of turning out the Minister by argument, resolved to make the attempt by menace.
Hopeless in the House, it appealed to the rabble, and France was extolled to the skies. We
then heard nothing of the "natural enmity," but a vast deal of the instinctive friendship.
England and France were no longer to be two hostile powers sitting on their respective shores,
with flashing eyes and levelled spears, but like a pair of citizen's wives loaded with presents
and provisions for each other, and performing their awkward courtesies across the Channel.

It must be acknowledged, however, that the Whig maxim, though a watchword of faction, was no
blunder of fact. A commercial treaty with the French in that day, or in any other day before
or since, was a dream. To bring the Frenchman to any rational agreement on the subject of trade,
or to keep him steady to any agreement whatever, has been a problem, which no British statesman
has been able to solve. No commercial treaty, even with all the genius of Pitt, has ever produced
to England the value of the paper on which it is written. Whether, if they were two Englands
in the world, they might not establish commercial treaties with each other, may be a question.
But we regard it as an absolute waste of time, to think of trading on fair terms with any of
the slippery tariffs of foreign countries. In fact, this is now so perfectly understood, that
England has nearly given up the notion of commercial treaties. She trades now, where the necessities
of the foreigner demand her trade. The foreigner hates John Bull, Just as the Athenian peasant
hated Aristides, and for the same reason. He hates him for being honest, manly, and sincere;
he hates him for the integrity of his principles, for the purity of his faith, and for the
reality of his freedom; he hates him for his prosperity, for his progress, and for his power.
And while the Frenchman capers in his fetters, and takes his promenade under the shadow of
the fortifications of Paris; while the German talks of constitutions in the moon; and while
the Holy Alliance amuses itself with remodelling kingdoms, John Bull may be well content to
remain as he is, and leave them to such enjoyment as they can find in sulkiness and sneering.

Grey's brilliant debut appears not to have been sustained: he spoke little during the session,
but talked much--a fatal distinction to a parliamentary aspirant. Ambitious of figuring, he
attempted to figure on all occasions; and, once or twice, unluckily daring the great champion
of the treasury bench to the field, he was driven from it with wounds which, if they did not
teach him a sense of his weakness, at least taught him a sense of his danger. Mr Grey's credit,
says Addington in a letter, "as a man of discretion and temper, remains to be established.
His reputation for abilities has not increased within the last two months, while he has in
all respects enhanced that of the person (Pitt) to whom he ventured to oppose himself."

In alluding to the intercourse of Addington with Wilberforce, the biographer, we think very
justly, complains of the sillinesses which have transpired in the latter's diary. Addington
took higher views on ecclesiastical subjects; and was less rapid in his movements for the abolition
of the slave-trade; being of opinion that precipitate measures would only increase the traffic
to an enormous extent, deprive England of all power of restraining the frightful atrocities
of the middle passage; and, by throwing the whole trade into the hands of foreigners, leave
it open to all the reckless abominations of mankind.

The result was, unfortunately, all that rational men anticipated. The trade carried on by the
foreigner has been tripled, or even quadrupled; the horrors of the middle passage are without
restraint; and the sufferings of the victims, on their march to the coast, by fatigue, want
of food, and the cruelty of their treatment, are estimated to destroy nearly twice the number
of those who ever cross the Atlantic. The very powers with whom we have already made treaties
for the purpose of extinguishing this infernal traffic, are deepest in its commerce; and its
extinction now seems hopeless, except through some of those tremendous visitations, by which
Providence scourges crimes which have grown too large for the jurisdiction of man.

Lord Sidmouth, then far advanced in life, when he saw those remarks in the diary, naturally
felt offended, but he bore the offence with dignity, merely saying, as he closed the volume,
"Well, Wilberforce does not speak of me as he spoke to me, I am sorry to say." Of Wilberforce,
no one can desire to doubt the general honesty; but that he was singularly trifling and inconstant,
was evidently the opinion of his contemporaries in the House. The following anecdote is given
from the author's notes on this point. "Lord Sidmouth told us, that one morning, at a cabinet
meeting, after an important debate in the House of Commons, some one said, 'I wonder how Wilberforce
voted last night:' on which Lord Liverpool observed, 'I do not know how he voted, but of this
I am pretty sure, that in whatever way he voted, he repents of his vote this morning.' Lord
Sidmouth added, 'It was odd enough, that I had no sooner returned to my office, than Wilberforce
was announced, who said,--Lord Sidmouth, you will be surprised at the vote I gave last night,
and, indeed, I am not myself altogether satisfied with it;'--to which I replied, My dear Wilberforce,
I shall never be surprised at any vote you give.'"

During this session the abolition of Negro slavery first seriously attracted the notice of
parliament. The conduct of it, in the House of Commons, was intrusted to Wilberforce; but,
in his absence, in consequence of indisposition, Pitt, on the 9th of May 1798, moved the resolution,
"that the House would, early in the next session, proceed to take into consideration the circumstances
of the slave trade." In a cause like this, the humane and magnanimous mind of Burke naturally
enlisted at once. But he was by no means of that school of humanity which gains the race, only
by riding over every thing in its way. Red-hot humanity had no charms for the great philosopher;
and, philanthropist as he was, he could discover no wisdom in measures which changed only one
violence for another, pauperised the whites without liberating the blacks; and, while it cost
twenty millions sterling to repair about third of the injury, left the unhappy African at the
mercy of avarice round the circumference of the globe.

A letter from Huntingford says:--"Dr Lawrence, our Winchester acquaintance, called on me lately.
He talked much on Mr Burke's ideas respecting the slave-trade. I found by him that Mr Burke
foresaw the total ruin of the West-India colonies, if the trade were at once prohibited. He
is for a better regulation of the ships which carry on that infamous commerce: he would lay
the captains under restrictions, and punish them with rigour for wanton severity or brutal
inhumanity to the slaves; and, when the poor creatures are purchased at the West-India islands,
he would have them instructed in religion; and be permitted to purchase their own freedom,
when by industry they should acquire a sufficient sum for that purpose. For their religious
instruction he would erect more churches; and, to enable them in time to accumulate the price
of their ransom, he would enact that the property of a slave should be as sacred as that of
a freeman." Burke went further than opinions, for he embodied his sentiments in a paper entitled,
"Sketch of a Negro Code," all outline of a bill in parliament, which is to be found in the
collection of his works.

In August of this year, Addington mentioned that Lord Grenville passed a month with him at
Lyme, and that one day visiting Lord Rolle, a party were speculating on the probable successor
to the Speaker (Cornwall)--Grenville and Addington giving it as their opinion, that neither
of them had any chance. He adds, "within twelve months, we were both Speakers ourselves."

An important and melancholy event, however, threw the cabinet and the country alike into confusion.
Early in November, it was ascertained that the King was taken dangerously ill. Three successive
notes from Grenville represented the illness as most alarming, and giving room for apprehening
of incurable disorder. As Dr Addington was known to have paid particular attention to cases
of insanity, Pitt proposed his being summoned to visit the royal patient. In consequence, he
visited his Majesty for several days, and on examination with the other physicians before the
Privy Council, expressed a strong expectation of the royal recovery, founded on the circumstance
that this illness had not, for its forerunner, any of the symptoms which usually precede a
serious attack of this nature. The debates on the Regency Bill now brought out all the vigour
of the House. The Whigs thundered at the gate of the cabinet; but there was a strong hand within,
and it was still kept shut. The Prince of Wales, then under all the captivations of Whig balls
and banquets, and worshiping at the feet of Fox, was no sooner to be master of the state by
an unlimited Regency Bill, than Fox was to be master of every thing. Pitt still fought the
battle with all the cool determination of one determined never to capitulate. Fox became in
succession fierce, factious, and half frantic; still his great adversary stood on the vantage
ground of law, and was imperturbable. But the contest now began to spread beyond the walls
of parliament. The spirit of the nation, always siding with the brave defence, daily felt an
increasing interest in the gallantry with which Pitt almost alone fought the ablest Opposition
that had ever been ranged within the walls of Westminster, and inflamed by the sight of power
almost within their grasp.

But the announcement of a sudden change in his Majesty's indisposition abated the contest at
once. From the 8th to the 20th of February, the progress to health was palpable. On the 19th,
the discussions on the Regency Bill were suspended in the House of Lords; and on the 6th of
March, the Speaker and several members of the administration were admitted to present their
congratulations to the King, at Kew, on his recovery.

We cannot resist the temptation of exhibiting Lord Sidmouth in the unsuspected character of
a poet. As several millions of verses were poured out as the offerings of the Muse on the joyful
occasion, as Parnassus was rifled by the Universities, and as every village school in the kingdom
hung a pen-and-ink garland on the altar of Æsculapius or Hygeia; it was felt to be the bounden
duty of every candidate for cabinet honours, to put his desk "in order," and rhyme, to the
best of his power. Addington, in consequence, produced the following--

    ON THE KINGS RECOVERY.

