In writing this little book the author believes he is supplying a want which most Students
and Dyers of Cotton Fabrics have felt--that of a small handbook clearly describing the various
processes and operations of the great industry of dyeing Cotton.

The aim has not been to produce a very elaborate treatise but rather a book of a convenient
size, and in order to do so it has been necessary to be brief and to omit many matters that
would rightfully find a place in a larger treatise, but the author hopes that nothing of importance
has been omitted. The most modern processes have been described in some detail; care has been
taken to select those which experience shows to be thoroughly reliable and to give good results.

FRANKLIN BEECH.

May, 1901.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.
                                                                    PAGE
STRUCTURE AND CHEMISTRY OF THE COTTON FIBRE                            1
  Action of Alkalies                                                   6
  Action of Acids on Cellulose                                         9
  Action of Sulphuric Acid on Cotton                                  10
  Action of Hydrochloric Acid                                         11
  Action of Nitric Acid                                               12
  Action of Oxidising Agents on Cellulose or Cotton                   16

CHAPTER II.

SCOURING AND BLEACHING OF COTTON                                      23
  Stains and Damages in Bleached Goods                                50

CHAPTER III.

DYEING MACHINERY AND DYEING MANIPULATIONS                             53
  Hand Dyeing                                                         53
  Dyeing Machines                                                     57
  Dyeing, Slubbing, Sliver or Carded Cotton and Wool                  58
  Cop Dyeing                                                          64

CHAPTER IV.

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF COTTON DYEING                          82
  (1) Direct Dyeing                                                   85
  (2) Direct Dyeing followed by Fixation with Metallic Salts         112
  (3) Direct Dyeing followed by Fixation with Developers             128
  (4) Direct Dyeing followed by Fixation with Couplers               139
  (5) Dyeing on Tannic Mordant                                       147
  (6) Dyeing on Metallic Mordants                                    156
  (7) Production of Colour Direct upon Cotton Fibres                 181
  (8) Dyeing Cotton by Impregnation with Dye-stuff Solution          198

CHAPTER V.

DYEING UNION (MIXED COTTON AND WOOL) FABRICS                         208

CHAPTER VI.

DYEING HALF SILK (COTTON-SILK, SATIN) FABRICS                        225
  Method of Dyeing                                                   225

CHAPTER VII.

OPERATIONS FOLLOWING DYEING                                          239
  Washing, Soaping, Drying                                           239

CHAPTER VIII.

TESTING OF THE COLOUR OF DYED FABRICS                                257

CHAPTER IX.

EXPERIMENTAL DYEING AND COMPARATIVE DYE TESTING                      262

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

FIG.                                                                PAGE 1.  Cotton Fibre 
5 1A. Cross-section of Cotton Fibre                                      5 2.  Mercerised Cotton
Fibre                                            7 2A. Cross-section of Mercerised Cotton Fibre
7 3.  Silkified Cotton Fibre                                             9 3A. Cross-section
of Silkified Cotton Fibre                            9 4.  Mather & Platt's Low-pressure Bleaching
Kier                      31 5.  Mather & Platt's Yarn-bleaching Kier                     
49 6.  Rectangular Dye-tank                                              54 7.  Round Dye-tub
54 8.  Section of Dye-vat                                                56 9.  Delahunty's
Dyeing Machine                                        58 10. Obermaier Dyeing Machine     
59 11. Holliday's Yarn-dyeing Machine                                    60 12. Klauder-Weldon
Dyeing Machine                                     62 13. Graemiger Cop-dyeing Machine    
65 14. Graemiger Cop-dyeing Machine                                      66 15. Beaumont's
Cop-dyeing Machine                                     67 16. Warp-dyeing Machine         
70 17. Warp-dyeing Machine                                               71 18. Dye-jiggers
72 19. Dye-jigger                                                        73 20. Jig Wince 
75 21. Cloth-dyeing Machine                                              76 22. Dye Beck  
77 23. Holliday's Machine for Hawking Cloth                              78 24. Continuous
Dyeing Machine                                         79 25. Padding Machine             
80 26. Padding Machine                                                   81 27. Dye-tub for
Paranitroaniline Red                                 191 28. Padding Machine for Paranitroaniline
Red                         192 29. Developing Machine for Paranitroaniline Red           
194 30. Indigo Dye-vat for Cloth                                         199 31. Squeezing
Rollers                                                240 32. Yarn-washing Machine       
243 33. Dye-house Washing Machine                                        244 34. Cloth-washing
Machine                                            245 35. Cloth-washing Machine          
247 36. Washing and Soaping Vats                                         248 37. Steaming Cottage
249 38. Steaming and Ageing Chamber                                      250 39. Hydro-extractor
251 40. Hydro-extractor                                                  252 41. Automatic
Yarn-dryer                                             253 42. Truck Yarn-dryer           
254 43. Drying Cylinders                                                 255 44. Experimental
Dye-bath                                            263

CHAPTER I.

STRUCTURE AND CHEMISTRY OF THE COTTON FIBRE.

There is scarcely any subject of so much importance to the bleacher, textile colourist or textile
manufacturer as the structure and chemistry of the cotton fibre with which he has to deal.
By the term chemistry we mean not only the composition of the fibre substance itself, but also
the reactions it is capable of undergoing when brought into contact with various chemical substances--acids,
alkalies, salts, etc. These reactions have a very important bearing on the operations of bleaching
and dyeing of cotton fabrics.

A few words on vegetable textile fibres in general may be of interest. Fibres are met with
in connection with plants in three ways.

First, as cuticle or ciliary fibres or hairs; these are of no practical use, being much too
short for preparing textile fabrics from, but they play an important part in the physiology
of the plant.

Second, as seed hairs; that is fibres that are attached to the seeds of many plants, such,
for instance, as the common thistle and dandelion; the cotton fibre belongs to this group of
seed hairs, while there are others, kapok, etc., that have been tried from time to time in
spinning and weaving, but without much success. These seed hairs vary much in length, from
1/4 inch to 1-1/2 inches or even 2 inches; each fibre consists of a single unit. Whether it
is serviceable as a textile fibre depends upon its structure, which differs in different plants,
and also upon the quantity available.

The third class of fibre, which is by far the most numerous, consists of those found lying
between the bark or outer cuticle and the true woody tissues of the plant. This portion is
known as the bast, and hence these fibres are known as "bast fibres". They are noticeable on
account of the great length of the fibres, in some cases upwards of 6 feet, which can be obtained;
but it should be pointed out that these long fibres are not the unit fibres, but are really
bundles of the ultimate fibres aggregated together to form one long fibre, as found in and
obtained from the plant. Thus the ultimate fibres of jute are really very short--from 1/10
to 1/8 of an inch in length; those of flax are somewhat longer. Jute, flax, China grass and
hemp are common fibres which are derived from the bast of the plants.

There is an important point of difference between seed fibres and bast fibres, that is in the
degree of purity. While the seed fibres are fairly free from impurities--cotton rarely containing
more than 5 per cent.--the bast fibres contain a large proportion of impurity, from 25 to 30
per cent. as they are first obtained from the plant, and this large quantity has much influence
on the extent and character of the treatments to which they are subjected.

As regards the structure of the fibres, it will be sufficient to say that while seed hairs
are cylindrical and tubular and have thin walls, bast fibres are more or less polygonal in
form and are not essentially tubular, having thick walls and small central canals.

=The Cotton Fibre.=--The seed hairs of the cotton plant are separated from the seeds by the
process of ginning, and they then pass into commerce as raw cotton. In this condition the fibre
is found to consist of the actual fibrous substance itself, containing, however, about 8 per
cent. of hygroscopic or natural moisture, and 5 per cent. of impurities of various kinds, which
vary in amount and in kind in various descriptions of cotton. In the process of manufacture
into cotton cloths, and as the material passes through the operations of bleaching, dyeing
or printing, the impurities are eliminated.

=Impurities of the Cotton Fibre.=--Dr. E. Schunck made an investigation many years ago into
the character of the impurities, and found them to consist of the following substances:--

=Cotton Wax.=--This substance bears a close resemblance to carnauba wax. It is lighter than
water, has a waxy lustre, is somewhat translucent, is easily powdered, and melts below the
boiling point of water. It is insoluble in water, but dissolves in alcohol and in ether. When
boiled with weak caustic soda it melts but is not dissolved by the alkali; it can, however,
be dissolved by boiling with alcoholic caustic potash. This wax is found fairly uniformly distributed
over the surface of the cotton fibre, and it is due to this fact that raw cotton is wetted
by water only with difficulty.

=Fatty Acids.=--A solid, fatty acid, melting at 55° C. is also present in cotton. Probably
stearic acid is the main constituent of this fatty acid.

=Colouring Matter.=--Two brown colouring matters, both containing nitrogen, can be obtained
from raw cotton. One of these is readily soluble in alcohol, the other only sparingly so. The
presence in relatively large quantities of these bodies accounts for the brown colour of Egyptian
and some other dark-coloured varieties of cotton.

=Pectic Acid.=--This is the chief impurity found in raw cotton. It can be obtained in the form
of an amorphous substance of a light yellow colour, not unlike gum in appearance. It is soluble
in boiling water, and the solution has a faint acid reaction. Acids and many metallic salts,
such as mercury, chloride and lead acetate, precipitate pectic acid from its solutions. Alkalies
combine with it, and these compounds form brown substances, are but sparingly soluble in water,
and many of them can be precipitated out by addition of neutral salts, like sodium and ammonium
chlorides.

=Albumens.=--A small quantity of albuminous matter is found among the impurities of cotton.

=Structure of the Cotton Fibre.=--The cotton fibre varies in length from 1 to 2 inches, not
only in fibres of the same class but also in fibres from different localities--Indian fibres
varying from 0.8 in the shortest to 1.4 in the longest stapled varieties; Egyptian cotton fibres
range from 1.1 to 1.6 inches long; American cotton ranges from 0.8 in the shortest to 2 inches
in the longest fibres. The diameter is about 1/1260 of an inch. When seen under the microscope
fully ripe cotton presents the appearance of irregularly twisted ribbons, with thick rounded
edges. The thickest part is the root end, or point of attachment to the seed. The free end
terminates in a point. The diameter is fairly uniform through 3/4 to 7/8 of its length, the
rest is taper. In Fig. 1 is given some illustrations of the cotton fibre, showing this twisted
and ribbon-like structure, while in Fig. 1A is given some transverse sections of the fibre.
These show that it is a collapsed cylinder, the walls being of considerable thickness when
compared with the internal bore or canal.

Perfectly developed, well-formed cotton fibres always present this appearance. But all commercial
cottons contain more or less of fibres which are not perfectly developed or are unripe. These
are known as "dead fibres"; they do not spin well and they do not dye well. On examination
under the microscope it is seen that these fibres have not the flattened, twisted appearance
of the ripe fibres, but are flatter, and the central canal is almost obliterated and the fibres
are but little twisted. Dead fibres are thin, brittle and weak.

=Composition of the Cotton Fibres.=--Of all the vegetable textile fibres cotton is found to
have the simplest chemical composition and to be, as it were, the type substance of all such
fibres, the others differing from it in several respects. When stripped of the comparatively
small quantities of impurities, cotton is found to consist of a substance to which the name
of cellulose has been given.

Cellulose is a compound of the three elements, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, in the proportions
shown in the following analysis:--

Carbon, 44.2 per cent., Hydrogen, 6.3 per cent., Oxygen, 49.5 per cent.,

which corresponds to the empirical formula C{6}H{10}O{5}, which shows it to belong to the group
of carbo-hydrates, that is, bodies which contain the hydrogen and oxygen present in them in
the proportion in which they are present in water, namely H{2}O.

Cellulose may be obtained in a pure condition from cotton by treatment with alkalies, followed
by washing, and by treatment with alkaline hypochlorites, acids, washing and, finally, drying.
As thus obtained it is a white substance having the form of the fibre from which it is procured,
showing a slight lustre, and is slightly translucent. The specific gravity is 1.5, it being
heavier than water. It is characterised by being very inert, a property of considerable value
from a technical point of view, as enabling the fibres to stand the various operations of bleaching,
dyeing, printing, finishing, etc. Nevertheless, by suitable means, cellulose can be made to
undergo various chemical decompositions which will be noted in some detail.

Cellulose on exposure to the air will absorb moisture or water. This is known as hygroscopic
moisture, or "water of condition". The amount in cotton is about 8 per cent., and it has a
very important bearing on the spinning properties of the fibre, as it makes the fibre soft
and elastic, while absolutely dry cotton fibre is stiff, brittle and non-elastic; hence it
is easier to spin and weave cotton in moist climates or weather than in dry climates or weather.
Cotton cellulose is insoluble in all ordinary solvents, such as water, ether, alcohol, chloroform,
benzene, etc., and these agents have no influence in any way on the material, but it is soluble
in some special solvents that will be noted later on.

ACTION OF ALKALIES.

The action of alkalies on cellulose or cotton is one of great importance in view of the universal
use of alkaline liquors made from soda or caustic soda in the scouring, bleaching and dyeing
of cotton, while great interest attaches to the use of caustic soda in the "mercerising" of cotton.

Dilute solutions of the caustic alkalies, caustic soda or caustic potash, of from 2 to 7 per
cent. strength, have no action on cellulose or cotton, in the cold, even when a prolonged digestion
of the fibre with the alkaline solution takes place. Caustic alkali solutions of from 1 to
2 per cent. strength have little or no action even when used at high temperatures and under
considerable pressure--a fact of very great importance from a bleacher's point of view, as
it enables him to subject cotton to a boil in kiers, with such alkaline solutions at high pressures,
for the purpose of scouring the cotton, without damaging the fibre itself.

Solutions of caustic soda of greater strength than 3 per cent. tend, when boiled under pressure,
to convert the cellulose into soluble bodies, and as much as 20 per cent. of the fibre may
become dissolved under such treatment. The action of strong solutions of caustic soda or caustic
potash upon cellulose or cotton is somewhat different. Mercer found that solutions containing
10 per cent. of alkali had a very considerable effect upon the fibre, causing it to swell up
and become gelatinous and transparent in its structure, each individual cotton fibre losing
its ribbon-like appearance, and assuming a rod-like form, the central canal being more or less
obliterated. This is shown in Fig. 2 and 2A, where the fibre is shown as a rod and the cross
section in Fig. 2A has no central canal. The action which takes place is as follows: The cellulose
enters into a combination with the alkali and there is formed a sodium cellulose, which has
the formula C{6}H{10}O{5}2NaOH. This alkali cellulose, however, is not a stable body; by washing
with water the alkali is removed, and hydrated cellulose is obtained, which has the formula
C{6}H{10}O{5}H{2}O. Water removes the whole of the alkali, but alcohol only removes one half.
It has been observed that during the process of washing with water the fibre shrinks very much.
This shrinkage is more particularly to be observed in the case of cotton. As John Mercer was
the first to point out the action of the alkaline solutions on cotton, the process has become
known as "mercerisation".

Solutions of caustic soda of 1.000 or 20° Tw. in strength have very little mercerising action,
and it is only by prolonged treatment that mercerisation can be effected. It is interesting
to observe that the addition of zinc oxide to the caustic solution increases its mercerising
powers. Solutions of 1.225 to 1.275 (that is from 45° to 55° Tw. in strength) effect the mercerisation
almost immediately in the cold, and this is the best strength at which to use caustic soda
solutions for this purpose. In addition to the change brought about by the shrinking and thickening
of the material, the mercerised fibres are stronger than the untreated fibres, and at the same
time they have a stronger affinity for dyes, a piece of cloth mercerised taking up three times
as much colouring matter as a piece of unmercerised cloth from the same dye-bath.

The shrinkage of the cotton, which takes place during the operation of washing with water,
was for a long time a bar to any practical application of the "mercerising" process, but some
years ago Lowe ascertained that by conducting the operation while the cotton was stretched
or in a state of tension this shrinkage did not take place; further, Thomas and Prevost found
that the cotton so treated gained a silky lustre, and it has since been ascertained that this
lustre is most highly developed with the long-stapled Egyptian and Sea Island cottons. This
mercerising under tension is now applied on a large scale to produce silkified cotton. When
viewed under the microscope, the silkified cotton fibres have the appearance shown in Fig.
3, long rod-like fibres nearly if not quite cylindrical; the cross section of those fibres
has the appearance shown in Fig. 3A. This structure fully accounts for the silky lustre possessed
by the mercerised fibres. Silky mercerised cotton has very considerable affinity for dye-stuffs,
taking them up much more readily from dye-baths, and it is dyed in very brilliant shades.

In the chapter on Scouring and Bleaching of Cotton, some reference will be made to the action
of alkalies on cotton.

ACTION OF ACIDS ON CELLULOSE.

The action of acids on cellulose is a very varied one, being dependent upon several factors,
such as the particular acid used, the strength of the acid, duration of action, temperature,
etc. As a rule, organic acids--for example acetic, oxalic, citric, tartaric--have no action
on cellulose or cotton. Solutions of sulphuric acid or hydrochloric acid of 2 per cent. strength
have practically no action in the cold, and if after immersion the cotton or cellulose be well
washed there is no change of any kind. This is important, as in certain operations of bleaching
cotton and other vegetable fibres it is necessary to sour them, which could not be done if
acids acted on them, but it is important to thoroughly wash the goods afterwards. When the
acid solutions are used at the boil they have a disintegrating effect on the cellulose, the
latter being converted into hydrocellulose. When dried, the cellulose is very brittle and powdery,
which in the case of cotton yarn being so treated would show itself by the yarn becoming tender
and rotten. The degree of action varies with the temperature (the higher this is the stronger
the action), and also according to the strength of the acid solution. Thus a 10 per cent. solution
of sulphuric acid used at a temperature of 80° C. begins to act on cotton after about five
minutes' immersion, in half an hour there is a perceptible amount of disintegration, but the
complete conversion of the cotton into hydrocellulose requires one hour's immersion. A dilute
acid with 8 volumes of water, used in the cold, takes three hours' immersion before any action
on the cotton becomes evident.

ACTION OF SULPHURIC ACID ON COTTON.

When cellulose (cotton) is immersed in strong sulphuric acid the cotton becomes gradually dissolved;
as the action progresses cellulose sulphates are formed, and some hydrolytic action takes place,
with the formation of sugar. This fact has long been known, but only recently has it been shown
that dextrose was the variety of sugar which was formed. On diluting the strong acid solution
with water there is precipitated out the hydro or oxycelluloses that have been formed, while
the cellulose sulphates are retained in solution.

By suitable means the calcium, barium, or lead salts of these cellulose-sulphuric acids can
be prepared. Analysis of them shows that these salts undergo hydrolysis, and lose half their
sulphuric acid.

The action of strong sulphuric acid has a practical application in the production of parchment
paper; unsized paper is immersed in strong acid of the proper strength for about a minute,
and then immediately rinsed in water. The acid acts upon the surface of the paper and forms
the cellulose-sulphuric acid which remains attached to the surface. On passing into the water
this is decomposed, the acid is washed away, and the cellulose is deposited in an amorphous
form on the paper, filling up its pores and rendering it waterproof and grease-proof. Such
papers are now largely used for packing purposes.

ACTION OF HYDROCHLORIC ACID.

Dilute hydrochloric acid of from 1° to 2° Tw. in strength, used in the cold, has no action
on cellulose. Cotton immersed in acids of the strength named and then well washed in water
is not materially affected in any way, which is a feature of some value in connection with
the bleaching of cotton, where the material has to be treated at two points in the process
with weak acids. Boiling dilute hydrochloric acid of 10° Tw. disintegrates cellulose very rapidly.
The product is a white very friable powder, which if viewed under the microscope appears to
be fragments of the fibre that has been used to prepare it. The product has the composition
C{12}H{22}O{11}, and is therefore a hydrate of cellulose, the latter having undergone hydrolysis
by taking up the elements of water according to the equation 2C{6}H{10}O{5} + H{2}O = C{12}H{22}O{11}.
By further digestion with the acid, the hydrocellulose, as it is called, undergoes molecular
change, and is converted into dextrine. In composition hydrocellulose resembles the product
formed by the addition of sulphuric acid which has received the name of amyloid. It differs
from cellulose in containing free carboxyl, CO, groups, while its hydroxyl groups, HO, are
much more active in their chemical reactions.

Hydrocellulose is soluble in nitric acid, 1.5 specific gravity, without undergoing oxidation.
Nitrates are formed varying in composition.

The formation of hydrocellulose has a very important bearing in woollen manufacture. It is
practically impossible to obtain wool free from vegetable fibres, and it is often desirable
to separate these vegetable fibres. For this purpose the goods are passed into a bath of hydrochloric
acid or of weak sulphuric acid. On drying the acid converts the cotton or vegetable fibre into
hydrocellulose which, being friable or powdery, can be easily removed, while the wool not having
been acted on by the acid remains quite intact. The process is known as "carbonising". It may
not only be done by means of the acids named but also by the use of acid salts, such as aluminium
chloride, which on being heated are decomposed into free acid and basic oxide. For the same
reason it is important to avoid the use of these bodies, aluminium chloride and sulphate, zinc
and magnesium chlorides, etc., in the treatment of cotton fabrics; as in finishing processes,
where the goods are dried afterwards, there is a great liability to form hydrocellulose with
the accompaniment of the tendering of the goods.

ACTION OF NITRIC ACID.

The action of nitric acid on cellulose is a variable one, depending on many factors, strength
of acid, duration of action and temperature. Naturally as nitric acid is a strong oxidising
agent the action of nitric acid on cellulose is essentially in all cases that of an oxidant,
but the character of the product which is obtained varies very much according to the conditions
just noted. When cellulose or cotton in any form is immersed in nitric acid of 1.4 to 1.5 specific
gravity for a moment, and the fibre be well washed, there is a formation of hydrate of cellulose
which has a gelatinous nature. This is deposited on the rest of the material, which is not
materially affected so far as regards strength and appearance, but its power of affinity for
dyes is materially increased. There is some shrinkage in the size of the cotton or paper acted
upon.

Nitric acid changes all kinds of cellulose into nitro products, the composition of which depends
upon the strength of the acid, the duration of treatment, and one or two other factors. The
nitrocelluloses are all highly inflammable bodies, the more highly nitrated burning with explosive
force. They are produced commercially and are known as "gun cotton" or "pyroxyline". The most
highly nitrated body forms the basis of the explosive variety; the least highly nitrated forms
that of the soluble gun cotton used for making collodion for photographic and other purposes.

The products formed by the action of nitric acid are usually considered to be nitrocelluloses.
It would appear that they are more correctly described as cellulose-nitrates, for analysis
indicates the presence of the NO{3} group, which is characteristic of nitrates, and not of
the NO{2} group, which is the feature of nitro bodies in general. Further, nitro compounds,
when subject to the action of reducing agents, are converted into amido compounds, as is the
case, for instance, with nitro-benzene, C{6}H{5}NO{2}, into aniline, C{6}H{5}NH{2}, or with
nitro-naphthalene, C{10}H{7}NO{2}, which changes into naphthylamine, C{10}H{7}NH{2}.

But the nitric acid derivatives of cellulose are not capable of conversion by reducing agents
into similar amido compounds. They have the following properties, which accord more closely
with nitrates than with nitric bodies: alkalies remove the nitric acid; cold sulphuric acid
expels the nitric acid, cellulose sulphates being formed; boiling with ferrous sulphate and
hydrochloric acid causes the elimination of the nitric acid as nitric oxide (on which reaction
a method for determining the degree of nitration of gun cotton is based). It is best therefore
to consider them as cellulose nitrates. Several well-characterised cellulose nitrates have
been prepared, but is an exceedingly difficult matter to obtain any one in a state of purity,
the commercial articles being always mixtures of two or three. Those that are best known and
of the most importance are the following:--

Cellulose Hexa-nitrate, C{6}H{4}O{5}(NO{3}){6}. This forms the principal portion of the commercial
explosive gun cotton, and is made when a mixture of strong nitric acid and strong sulphuric
acid is allowed to act on cotton at from 50 to 55° F. for twenty-four hours. The longer the
action is prolonged, the more completely is the cotton converted into the nitrate, with a short
duration the finished product contains lower nitrates. This hexa-nitrate is insoluble in ether,
alcohol, or in a mixture of those solvents, likewise in glacial acetic acid or in methyl alcohol.

Cellulose Penta-nitrate, C{6}H{5}O{5}(NO{3}){5}, is found in explosive gun cotton to a small
extent. When gun cotton is dissolved in nitric acid and sulphuric acid is added, the penta-nitrate
is thrown down as a precipitate. It is not soluble in alcohol, but is so in a mixture of ether
and alcohol, it is also slightly soluble in acetic acid. Solutions of caustic potash convert
it into the di-nitrate.

Cellulose Tetra-nitrate, C{6}H{6}O{5}(NO{3}){4}, and Cellulose Tri-nitrate, C{6}H{7}O{5},(NO{3}){3},
form the basis of the pyroxyline or soluble gun cotton of commerce. It has not been found possible
to separate them owing to their behaviour to solvents being very similar. These nitrates are
obtained by treating cotton with nitric acid for twenty or thirty minutes. They are characterised
by being more soluble than the higher nitrates and less inflammable. They are freely soluble
in a mixture of ether and alcohol, from which solutions they are precipitated in a gelatinous
form on adding chloroform. Acetic ether, methyl alcohol, acetone and glacial acetic acid, will
also dissolve these nitrates.

Cellulose Di-nitrate, C{6}H{8}O{5}(NO{3}){2}, is obtained when cellulose is treated with hot
dilute nitric acid, or when the high nitrates are boiled with solutions of caustic soda or
caustic potash. Like the last-mentioned nitrates it is soluble in a mixture of alcohol and
ether, in acetic ether, and in absolute alcohol. The solution of the pyroxyline nitrates in
ether and alcohol is known as collodion, and is used in photography and in medical and surgical
work.

One of the most interesting applications of the cellulose nitrates is in the production of
artificial silk. Several processes, the differences between which are partly chemical and partly
mechanical, have been patented for the production of artificial silk, those of Lehner and of
Chardonnet being of most importance. They all depend upon the fact that when a solution of
cellulose nitrate is forced through a fine aperture or tube, the solvent evaporates almost
immediately, leaving a gelatinous thread of the cellulose nitrate which is very tough and elastic,
and possesses a brilliant lustre. Chardonnet dissolves the cellulose nitrate in a mixture of
alcohol and ether, and the solution is forced through fine capillary tubes into hot water,
when the solvents immediately evaporate, leaving the cellulose nitrate in the form of very
fine fibre, which by suitable machinery is drawn away as fast as it is formed. Lehner's process
is very similar to that of Chardonnet. Lehner uses a solution of cellulose nitrate in ether
and alcohol, and adds a small quantity of sulphuric acid; by the adoption of the latter ingredient
he is able to use a stronger solution of cellulose nitrate, 10 to 15 per cent., than would
otherwise be possible, and thereby obtains a stronger thread which resists the process of drawing
much better than is the case when only a weak solution in alcohol and ether is employed. By
subsequent treatment the fibre can be denitrated and so rendered less inflammable.

The denitrated fibres thus prepared very closely resemble silk in their lustre; they are not
quite so soft and supple, nor are they in any way so strong as ordinary silk fibre of the same
diameter.

Artificial silk can be dyed in the same manner as ordinary silk.

ACTION OF OXIDISING AGENTS ON CELLULOSE OR COTTON

Cellulose resists fairly well the action of weak oxidising agents; still too prolonged an action
of weak oxidising agents has some influence upon the cotton fibre, and it may be worth while
to point out the action of some bodies having an oxidising effect.

Nitric acid of about 1.15 specific gravity has little action in the cold, and only slowly on
it when heated. The action is one of oxidation, the cellulose being transformed into a substance
known as oxycellulose. This oxycellulose is white and flocculent. It tends to form gelatinous
hydrates with water, and has a composition corresponding to the formula C{6}H{10}O{6}. It is
soluble in a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids, and on diluting this solution with water
a tri-nitrate precipitates out. A weak solution of soda dissolves this oxycellulose with a
yellow colour, while strong sulphuric acid forms a pink colouration. It is important to note
that nitric acid of the strength given does not convert all the cellulose into oxycellulose,
but there are formed also carbonic and oxalic acids. When cotton is passed into strong solutions
of bleaching powder and of alkaline hypochlorites and then dried, it is found to be tendered
very considerably. This effect of bleaching powder was first observed some thirteen years ago
by George Witz, who ascribed the tendering of the cotton to the formation of an oxycellulose.
Although the composition of this particular oxycellulose so formed has not yet been ascertained,
there is reason to think that it differs somewhat from the oxycellulose formed by the action
of the weak nitric acid. A notable property of the oxycellulose now under consideration is
its affinity for the basic coal-tar dyes, which it will absorb directly. The oxycellulose is
soluble in alkaline solutions.

In the ordinary bleaching process there is considerable risk of the formation of oxycellulose
by the employment of the bleaching solutions of too great a strength, or in allowing the goods
to lie too long before the final washing off. The presence of any oxycellulose in bleached
cotton may be readily determined by immersing it in a weak solution of Methylene blue, when,
if there be any oxycellulose present, the fibre will take up some of the dye-stuff.

Permanganate of potash is a very powerful oxidising agent. On cellulose neutral solutions have
but little action, either in the cold or when heated. They may, therefore, be used for the
bleaching of cotton or other cellulose fibres.

Alkaline solutions of permanganate convert the cellulose into oxycellulose, which resembles
the oxycellulose obtained by the action of the nitric acid.

Chromic acid, when used in the form of a solution, has but little action on cellulose. In the
presence of mineral acids, and used warm or boiling, chromic acid oxidises cellulose into oxycellulose
and other products.

It is therefore always advisable in carrying out any technical process connected with cotton
which involves its treatment with oxidising agents of any kind, and where it is desired not
to alter the cotton, to allow these actions to be as short as possible.

=Dyes and Cotton Dyeing.=--An account of the chemistry of the cotton fibre would not be complete
unless something is said about the reactions involved in the processes of dyeing and printing
cotton. This is a most interesting subject and opens up quite a number of problems relating
to the combination of the fibre with colouring matter of various kinds, but here only a brief
outline of the principles that present themselves in considering the behaviour of the cotton
fibre as regards colouring matter will be given.

When the question is considered from a broad point of view, and having regard to the various
affinities of the dyes for cotton; we notice (1) that there is a large number of dye-stuffs--the
Benzo, Congo, Diamine, Titan, Mikado, etc., dyes--that will dye the cotton from a plain bath
or from a bath containing salt, sodium sulphate, borax or similar salts; (2) that there are
dyes which, like Magenta, Safranine, Auramine and Methyl violet, will not dye the cotton fibre
direct, but require it to be mordanted or prepared with tannic acid; (3) that there are some
dyes or rather colouring matters which, like Alizarine, Nitroso-resorcine, barwood, logwood,
etc., require alumina, chrome and iron mordants; (4) that there are some dyes which, like the
azo scarlet and azo colours in general, cannot be used in cotton dyeing; (5) that there are
a few dyes, i.e., indigo, which do not come under this grouping.

From the results of recent investigations into the chemistry of dyeing it is now considered
that for perfect dyeing to take place there must be formed on the fibre a combination which
is called a "colour lake," which consists of at least two constituents; one of these is the
dye-stuff or the colouring matter itself, the other being either the fibre or a mordant, if
such has to be used. The question of the formation of colour lakes is one connected with the
molecular constitution of the colouring matter, but much yet remains to be done before the
proper functions and mode of action of the various groups or radicles in the dye-stuffs can
be definitely stated. While the constitution of the dye-stuff is of importance, that of the
substance being dyed is also a factor in the question of the conditions under which it is applied.

In dealing with the first of the above groups of dyes, the direct dyes, the colourist is somewhat
at a loss to explain in what manner the combination with the cotton fibre is brought about.
The affinity of cellulose for dyes appears to be so small and its chemical activities so weak,
that to assume the existence of a reaction between the dye-stuff and the fibre, tending to
the formation of a colour lake, seems to be untenable. Then, again, the chemical composition
and constitution of the dyes of this group are so varied that an explanation which would hold
good for one might not do so for another. The relative fastness of the dyes against washing
and soaping precludes the idea of a merely mechanical absorption of the dye by the fibre; on
the other hand the great difference in the fastness to soaping and light between the same dyes
on cotton and wool would show that there has not been a true formation of colour lake.

The dyeing of cotton with the second group of dyes is more easily explained. The cotton fibre
has some affinity for the tannic acid used in preparing it and absorbs it from the mordanting
bath. The tannic acid has the property of combining with the basic constituents of these dyes
and forms a true colour lake, which is firmly fixed on the fibre. The colour lake can be formed
independently of the fibre by bringing the tannic acid and the dye into contact with one another.

In the case of the dyes of the third group, the formation of a colour lake between the metallic
oxide and the colouring matter can be readily demonstrated. In dyeing with these colours the
cotton is first of all impregnated with the mordanting oxide, and afterwards placed in the
dye-bath, the mordant already fixed on the fibre then reacts with the dye, and absorbs it,
thus dyeing the cotton. To some extent the dyeing of cotton with the basic dyes of the second
group and the mordant dyes of the third group is almost a mechanical one, the cotton fibre
taking no part in it from a chemical point of view, but simply playing the part of a base or
foundation on which the colour lake may be formed. In the case of the dyes of the fourth group,
there being no chemical affinity of the cotton known for them, these dyes cannot be used in
a successful manner; cotton will, if immersed in a bath containing them, more or less mechanically
take up some of the colour from the liquor, but such colour can be almost completely washed
out again, hence these dyes are not used in cotton dyeing, although many attempts have been
made to render them available.

Indigo is a dye-stuff that stands by itself. Its combination with the cotton fibre is chiefly
of a physical rather than a chemical nature; it does not form colour lakes in the same way
as Alizarine and Magenta do.

Cellulose can be dissolved by certain metallic solutions and preparations:--

(1) =Zinc Chloride.=--When cotton or other form of cellulose is heated with a strong solution,
40 to 50 per cent., it slowly dissolves to a syrupy liquid. On diluting this liquid with water
the cellulose is thrown down in a gelatinous form, but more or less hydrated, and containing
some zinc oxide, 18 to 25 per cent., in combination.

(2) =Zinc Chloride and Hydrochloric Acid.=--When zinc chloride is dissolved in hydrochloric
acid a liquid is obtained which dissolves cellulose; on dilution the cellulose is re-precipitated
in a hydrated form. It is worth noting that the solution is not a stable one: on keeping, the
cellulose changes its character and undergoes hydrolysis to a greater or less extent.

(3) =Ammoniacal Copper.=--When ammonia is added to a solution of copper sulphate, there is
formed at first a pale blue precipitate of copper hydroxide, which on adding excess of ammonia
dissolves to a deep blue solution--a reaction highly characteristic of copper. The ammoniacal
copper solution thus prepared has, as was first observed by John Mercer, the property of dissolving
cellulose fairly rapidly, even in the cold.

If instead of preparing the ammoniacal copper solution in the manner indicated above, which
results in its containing a neutral ammonium salt, the copper hydroxide be prepared separately
and then dissolved in ammonia a solution is obtained which is stronger in its action.

The cupra-ammonium solutions of cellulose are by no means stable but change on keeping. When
freshly prepared, the cellulose may be precipitated from them almost unchanged by the addition
of such bodies as alcohol, sugar and solutions of neutral alkaline salts. On keeping the cellulose
undergoes more or less hydrolysis or even oxidation, for it has been observed that oxycellulose
is formed on prolonged digestion of cellulose with cupra-ammonium solutions, while there is
formed a fairly large proportion of a nitrite.

On adding lead acetate to the cupra-ammonium solution of cellulose, a compound of lead oxide
and cellulose of somewhat variable composition is precipitated. It is of interest also to note
that on adding metallic zinc to the cupra-ammonium solution the copper is thrown out and a
solution containing zinc is obtained.

This action of cupra-ammonium solutions on cellulose has been made the basis for the production
of the "Willesden" waterproof cloths. Cotton cloths or paper are passed through these solutions
of various degrees of strength according to requirements, they are then passed through rollers
which causes the surface to become more compact. There is formed on the surface of the goods
a deposit of a gelatinous nature which makes the surface more compact, and the fabric becomes
waterproof in character while the copper imparts to them a green colour and acts as a preservative.
The "Willesden" fabrics have been found very useful for a variety of purposes.

CHAPTER II.

SCOURING AND BLEACHING OF COTTON.

Preparatory to the actual dyeing operations, it is necessary to treat cotton in any condition--loose
cotton, yarn, or piece--so that the dyeing shall be properly done. Raw cotton contains many
impurities, mechanical and otherwise; cotton yarns accumulate dirt and impurities of various
kinds during the various spinning operations, while in weaving a piece of cotton cloth it is
practically impossible to keep it clean and free from dirt, etc. Before the cotton can be dyed
a perfectly level and uniform shade, free from dark spots or light patches, these impurities
must be removed, and therefore the cotton is subjected to various scouring or cleansing operations
with the object of effecting this end. Then again cotton naturally, especially Egyptian cotton,
contains a small quantity of a brown colouring matter, and this would interfere with the purity
of any pale tints of blue, rose, yellow, green, etc., which may be dyed on the cotton, and
so it becomes necessary to remove this colour and render the cotton quite bright. This is commonly
called "bleaching". It is these preparatory processes that will be dealt with in this chapter.

=Scouring Cotton.=--When dark shades--blacks, browns, olives, sages, greens, etc., are to be
dyed it is not needful to subject the cotton to a bleaching operation, but simply to a scouring
by boiling it with soda or caustic soda. This is very often-carried out in the same machine
as the goods will be dyed in; thus, for instance, in the case of pieces, they would be charged
in a jigger, this would be filled with a liquor made from soda or from caustic soda, and the
pieces run from end to end, while the liquor is being heated to the boil--usually half to three-quarters
of an hour is sufficient. Then the alkali liquor is run out, clean water run into the jigger
and the pieces washed, after which the dyes, etc., are run into the jigger and the dyeing done.
There is usually used 2 lb. to 3 lb. of caustic soda, or 3 lb. to 4 lb. of soda for each 100
lb. of goods so treated.

If the ordinary dyeing machines are not used for this purpose, then the ordinary bleachers'
kiers may be used. These will be described presently.

=Bleaching of Cotton.=--Cotton is bleached in the form of yarn, or in the finished pieces.
In the latter case the method depends very largely on the nature of the fabric; it is obvious
that fine fabrics, like muslins or lace curtains, cannot stand the same rough treatment as
a piece of twilled calico will. Then, again, the bleaching process is varied according to what
is going to be done with the goods after they are bleached; sometimes they are sent out as
they leave the bleach-house; again, they may have to be dyed or printed. In the first case
the bleach need not be of such a perfect character as in the last case, which again must be
more perfect than the second class of bleach. There may be recognised:--

(1) Market or white bleach. (2) Dyers or printers' bleach. (3) Madder bleach.

As the madder bleach is by far the most perfect of the three, and practically includes the
others, this will be described in detail, and differences between it and the others will be
then pointed out. A piece is subjected to the madder bleach which has afterwards to be printed
with madder or alizarine. Usually in this kind of work the cloths are printed with mordant
colours, and then dyed in a bath of the dye-stuff. This stains the whole of the piece, and
to rid the cloth of the stain where it has to be left white, it is subjected to a soap bath.
Now, unless the bleach has been thorough, the whites will be more or less stained permanently,
and to avoid this cloths which are to be printed with alizarine colours are most thoroughly
bleached. The madder bleach of the present day generally includes the following series of operations:--

(1) Stitching. (2) Singeing. (3) Singeing wash. (4) Lime boil. (5) Lime sour. (6) Lye boil.
(7) Resin boil. (8) Wash. (9) Chemicing. (10) White sour.

(1) =Stitching.=--The pieces are fastened together by stitching into one long rope, which is
passed in a continuous manner through all operations in which such a proceeding is possible.
This stitching is done by machines, the simplest of which is the donkey machine, whereby the
ends of the pieces, which are to be stitched together, are forced by a pair of cogwheels working
together on to the needle carrying a piece of thread, this is then pulled through and forms
a running stitch, a considerable length of thread being left on each side so as to prevent
as far as possible the pulling asunder of the pieces by an accidental drawing out of the thread.

Birch's sewing machine is very largely used in bleach works. It consists essentially of a Wilcox
& Gibb machine fitted on a stand so as to be driven by power. The pieces are carried under
the needle by a large wheel, the periphery of which contains a number of projecting pins that,
engaging in the cloth, carry it along.

There is also a contrivance by which these pieces to be sewn can be kept stretched, this takes
the form of an arm with clips at the end, which hold one end of the cloth while it is running
through the machine. The clip arrangement is automatic, and just before the end passes under
the needle it is released, and the arm flies back ready for the next piece; it is, however,
not necessary to use this arm always. This machine gives a chain stitch sufficiently firm to
resist a pull in the direction of the length of the pieces, but giving readily to a pull at
the end of the thread.

The Rayer & Lincoln machine is an American invention, and is much more complicated than Birch's.
It consists of a sewing machine mounted on the periphery of a large revolving wheel. This carries
a number of pins, which, engaging in the cloth to be stitched, carry it under the needle of
the machine. Besides sewing the pieces together this machine is fitted with a pair of revolving
cutters which trim the ends of the pieces as they pass through in a neat clean manner. There
is also an arrangement to mark the pieces as they are being stitched. Like Birch's it produces
a chain stitch.

What is important in sewing the ends of pieces together is to get a firm uniform stitch that
lies level with the cloths without any knots projecting, which would catch in the bleaching
machinery during the processes of bleaching, and this might lead to much damage being done.

Should it be necessary to mark the pieces so that they can be recognised after bleaching, the
best thing to use is printers' ink. Gas tar is also much used, and is very good for the purpose.
Coloured inks do not resist the bleaching sufficiently well to be used satisfactory. Vermilion
and Indian red are used for reds, yellow ochre is the fastest of the yellows, there is no blue
which will stand the process, and Guignet's green is the only green that will at all resist
the process, umber will serve for brown. All these colours are used in the form of printing ink.

The next operation is a very important one, which cannot be too carefully carried out, that is:--

(2) =Singeing.=--For printing bleaches the cloths are singed. This has for its object the removal
from the surface of the cloth of the fine fibres with which it is covered, and which would,
if allowed to remain, prevent the designs printed on from coming out with sufficient clearness,
giving them a blurred appearance.

Singeing is done in various ways, by passing the cloth over a red-hot copper plate, or over
a red-hot revolving copper cylinder, or through a coke flame, or through gas flames, and more
recently over a rod of platinum made red hot by electricity.

Plate singeing is the oldest of these methods and is still largely used. In this method a semi-cylindrical
copper plate is heated in a suitable furnace to a bright red heat, the cloths are rapidly passed
over it, and the loose fibres thereby burnt off. One great trouble is to keep the plate at
one uniform heat over the whole of its surface, some parts will get hotter than others, and
it is only by careful attention to the firing of the furnace that this can be obtained. To
get over these difficulties Worral introduced a roller singeing machine in which the plate
was replaced by a revolving copper roller, heated by a suitable furnace; the roller can be
kept at a more uniform temperature than the plate. The singe obtained by the plate and roller
is good, the principal fault being that if the cloths happen to get pressed down too much on
the hot plate the loose ends are not burnt off as they should be. With both plate and roller
the cloths are singed only on one side, and if both sides require to be singed a second passage
is necessary. Both systems still retain their hold as the principal methods in use, notwithstanding
the introduction of more modern methods.

Singeing by passing the cloths over a row of Bunsen burners has come largely into use. This
has the great advantage of being very cleanly, and of doing the work very effectually, much
more thoroughly than any other method, which is due to the fact that while in the methods described
above only the loose fibres on the surface are burnt off; with gas all the loose fibres are
burnt off. This is brought about by the gas flame passing straight through the cloth. It is
not necessary to describe the gas singeing machine in detail. Singeing machines should be kept
scrupulously clean and free from fluff, which is liable to collect round them, and very liable
to fire. Some machines are fitted with a flue having a powerful draught which carries off this
fluff, away from any source of danger.

(3) =Singeing Wash.=--After being singed the cloths are run through a washing machine to remove
by water as much of the loose charred fibres as possible. The construction of a washing machine
is well known. It consists of a pair of large wooden rollers set above a trough containing
water and into which a constant stream of water flows. In the trough is also fixed another
wooden roller and the pieces are passed round this bottom roller and between the top rollers.
The cloth is passed through and round the rollers several times in a spiral form so that it
passes through the water in the trough frequently, which is a great advantage, as the wash
is thus much more effectual. The pressure between the two top rollers presses out any surplus
water. The operation scarcely needs any further description.

(4) =Lime Boil.=--After the cloth leaves the singeing or grey wash, as it is often called,
it passes through the liming machine, which is made very similar to the washing machine. In
this it passes through milk of lime, which should be made from freshly slaked lime. The latter
maybe prepared in a pasty form in a stone cistern. The lime used should be of good quality,
free from stones, badly burnt pieces or any other insoluble material, so that when slaked it
should give a fine smooth pasty mass.

Lime should not be slaked too long before using, as it absorbs carbonic acid from the atmosphere,
whereby carbonate of lime is formed, and this is useless for liming cloth. The pasty slaked
lime may be mixed with water to form the milk of lime, and this can be run from the cistern
in which it is prepared into the liming machine as it is required; the supply pipe should be
run into the bottom of the trough of the liming machine and not over the top, in which latter
case it may splash on to the cloths and lead to overliming, which is not to be desired on account
of its liability to rot the cloth. The amount of lime used varies in different bleachworks,
and there is no rule on the subject; about 5 lb. to 7 lb. of dry lime to 100 lb. of cloth may
be taken as a fair quantity to use.

The lime boil has for its object the removal or rather the saponification of the resinous and
fatty matters present in the grey cloth, either naturally or which have been added in the process
of weaving, or have got upon the cloth accidentally during the processes of spinning and weaving.
With these bodies the lime forms insoluble lime soaps; these remain in the cloth, but in a
form easily decomposable and removable by treatment with acids and washing. Soda or potash
is not nearly so good for this first boiling as lime--for what reason is somewhat uncertain,
but probably because they form with the grease in the cloths soluble soaps, which might float
about the kier and accumulate in places where they are not required and thus lead to stains,
whereas the insoluble lime soap remains where it was formed. The lime also seems to attack
the natural colouring matter of the cotton, and although the colour of the limed cloth is darker
than before boiling, yet the nature of the colour is so altered that it is more easily removed
in the after processes. Besides these changes the starchy matters put into the cloth in the
sizing are dissolved away. Great care should be taken to see that the goods are evenly laid
in the kiers, not too tight, or the liquor will not penetrate properly; and not too slack,
or they will float about and get entangled and more or less damaged. Then again care should
be taken, especially when using low-pressure kiers, to see that the supply of liquor does not
get too low, in which case the goods in the upper part of the kier are liable to get dry and
are tendered thereby. So long as the goods in the kiers are not allowed to get dry there is
no risk of damage; this trouble rarely arises with the Barlow and injector kiers. The inside
of the kiers should be kept well limed, so that the goods shall not come in contact with the
bare iron or metal of which the kier is constructed, as this would be very likely to lead to
stains being produced which are by no means easy to remove. It is usual, and it is a good plan
with almost all kinds of kiers, except the Mather and Edmeston kiers, to put a number of large
pebbles or small stones at the bottom of the kier, which serves to make a false bottom on which
the goods rest and through which the liquor penetrates and flows away. Before using, the stones
should be well washed to free them from dirt and grit.

The lime boil is carried out in what are called "kiers". Many forms of kiers have been devised,
but the one in most general use is that known as the "injector kier," of which a drawing is
given in Fig. 4, of the form made by Messrs. Mather & Platt of Salford. Injector kiers are
made to work either under a pressure of 40 lb. to 50 lb. of steam per square inch, when they
are called high-pressure kiers, or at a pressure of 15 lb. to 20 lb., when they are called
low-pressure kiers. The one shown in the drawing is intended for low-pressure kiers. The principle
of construction is the same in all, the details varying somewhat with different makers. Injector
kiers consist of a hollow, upright iron cylinder made of plates riveted together; the top is
made to lift off, but can be fastened down tightly by means of bolts and nuts as shown in the
drawing. From the bottom, and placed centrally, rises a pipe, known as the puffer pipe; this
terminates at the top in a rose arrangement. The lower end of the pipe is perforated. A jet
of steam is sent in at the bottom of this pipe, and by its force any liquor at the bottom of
the kier is forced up the puffer pipe and distributed in a spray over any goods which may be
in the kier. The liquor ultimately finds its way to the bottom of the kier ready to be blown
up again. This circulation of the liquor can be maintained for any length of time and through
its agency every part of the goods gets thorough and effectual treatment.

The length of the boil depends upon the kiers; with the open kier about ten hours are usually
given, with the Barlow and injector kiers, working at a pressure of 40 lb. to 50 lb., six to
seven hours are given.

(5) =Lime or Grey Sour.=--After the lime boil, the next operation is that of the lime sour
or grey sour as it is often called to distinguish it from a subsequent souring. The souring
is done in a machine constructed in the same way as a washing machine; the trough of the machine
is filled with hydrochloric acid at 2° Tw., which is kept ready prepared in a stone cistern
and run into the machine as required (it is not advisable to use acid stronger than this).
After passing through the sour the goods are piled in a heap on the stillage for a few hours.
The acid attacks the lime soap which was formed during the lime boil, decomposes it and dissolves
out the lime with the formation of calcium chloride, while the fat of the soap is liberated,
the former is washed away in the subsequent washing, while the latter remains to a large extent
on the goods, and is removed by the lye boil that follows. Sulphuric acid is not so satisfactory
to use for the lime sour as hydrochloric acid, because it forms with the lime the insoluble
sulphate of calcium, which is difficult to entirely remove from the goods, whereas the chloride
is very soluble and is entirely eliminated from the goods by the washing that follows.

It is advisable to keep the acid at a uniform strength in the machine. The Twaddell is here
of no use as an indicator of the actual strength, because the lime which the acid dissolves,
while it neutralises and reduces the strength of the acid, actually raises the Twaddell, under
which circumstance the only safe method is a chemical test. This can be carried out very simply
and with a sufficient degree of accuracy by the workmen, and if it be done at regular intervals
during the souring, and the supply of the fresh acid be regulated, the sour will be kept at
a more uniform strength and more uniform results will be obtained than if the souring were
done in a more empirical fashion. The test is best and most easily done as follows:--

Prepare a solution of 1 oz. of the powdered high strength 98 per cent. caustic soda in 1 pint
of water, weighing and measuring these quantities very carefully. Now take a tall, narrow,
white bottle of about 5 oz. capacity and make a mark on the neck. Fill this bottle with the
test solution.

Now take exactly 5 ozs. of freshly prepared sour of 2° Tw., pour into a jar, and add carefully
some of the soda-test solution until a piece of cloth dyed with turmeric is turned brown, when
the acid is neutralised. Now make a mark on the bottle of soda to show how much has been used.
In all subsequent tests of the sour 5 ozs. should always take the same quantity of soda solution;
if it takes less it is too weak, if more it is too strong; the remedy in each case is obvious.
It is worth while to graduate the test bottle for 1°, 3°, 4°, 5° Twaddell, as well as for 2°
Tw. acid.

After the souring it is often the custom to pile the goods on to a wooden stillage, but the
goods should not be left too long so piled up for they may become dry, either entirely or in
parts. In any case, as the goods dry the acid becomes concentrated and attacks them and makes
them tender, which is not at all desirable. Therefore, if it is not convenient to proceed with
them for some time after souring, they should be moistened with water from time to time, but
it is best to wash them off at once, whereby they are made ready for the next operation.

(6) =Lye Boil.=--This is, perhaps, the most important operation in the whole process of bleaching,
especially if the cloths are going to be printed in the so-called madder style with alizarine
colours, or otherwise stains are liable to occur in the final stage, and it is then sometimes
difficult to put the blame for these upon the right shoulders.

In principle the lye boil is simple, consisting in boiling the goods with a solution of soda
ash, or caustic soda. The quantity of ash used varies in different works, as might naturally
be expected; from 170 lb. to 200 lb. of ash to 10,000 lb. of cloth is a fair proportion to
use. The length of boil averages about four hours, certainly not less than three should be
given, and it is not necessary to give more than five hours in either ordinary kiers, with
central puffer pipe, or in injector kiers.

Care should be taken to see that the goods are well packed into the kiers, not too tightly
or the lye will fail to penetrate equally all through, and this is important if a uniform bleach
is desired; neither should they be too loose, or they will float about and get torn. It is
not necessary to be particular about the quantity of water used, except that it must be sufficient
to keep the goods well covered, and still have enough to keep the circulation energetic. When
the water is not sufficient in amount the goods get somewhat dry; there is then a liability
to tendering, but with plenty of water there is no fear of any damage being done during a boil
with alkali. Some works use caustic soda instead of soda ash in which case less is required,
from 120 lb. to 150 lb. to 10,000 lb. of cloth, otherwise no alteration is made in the mode
of boiling.

This lye boil clears away the fatty and waxy matter left in the goods after the lime sour,
and thus prepares the way for the next boil. There is no advantage in using caustic soda in
this preliminary boil, soda ash being just as effective and cheaper.

(7) =Resin Boil.=--Following the lye boil is the resin boil which consists in boiling the goods
in a resin soap liquor. This is made as follows: a soda ash liquor of about 15° to 20° Tw.
is prepared, and into this is thrown resin, broken up into small pieces.

The whole is boiled up until the resin is dissolved, and then as much more is added in small
quantities as the alkali will take up. The soda liquor should not be much weaker than 20° Tw.,
it will then be heavier than the resin which will float on the top, it is found to dissolve
quicker and better than when the liquor is weak, in which case, the resin would sink to the
bottom of the boiler and would there melt into a single mass difficult to dissolve. The resin
soap liquor when made is ready to be used. The proportions of resin and alkali used in the
boil vary in different works, but, as a rule, the quantities for 10,000 lb. of goods are 430
lb. of 58 per cent. soda ash, 180 lb. of resin, and 80 lb. of 70 per cent. caustic soda. Too
much resin should be avoided, as it is found that with an excess the whites obtained are not
nearly so good as when the right quantity is used; on the other hand, too little acts much
in the same way. It may be taken that from 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 per cent. of the weight of the goods
is about the right proportion; 1 per cent. being too little, and 2 per cent. too much. The
quantity of soda used should be rather more than twice that of the resin, from 3-1/2 to 4 per
cent. The length of boil is usually about twelve hours in a low-pressure kier; in a high-pressure
kier about seven hours is sufficient.

What the special function of the resin is in this boil is not definitely known; but experience,
both on a large and small scale, proves that it is essential to obtaining a good white for
alizarine printing; without it, when the goods are dyed with alizarine after the mordants have
been printed on, they frequently take a brown stain--with the resin this never or but rarely
happens.

(8) =Wash.=--After the lye boils the goods must be washed, and it is important that this be
done in as thorough a manner as possible. With the object of accomplishing this most thoroughly
many washing machines have been invented, the main idea in all being to bring every part of
the goods into contact with as much water as possible. Bridson's is an old form, and a very
good one, the principle of this machine is to cause the cloth to pass to and fro, and to flap
upon the surface of the water in the trough of the machine.

Furnival's square beater works on much the same principle, and does its work effectively. More
modern washing machines are those of Birch, Farmer, Mather & Platt, and Hawthorne, where by
the peculiar construction of the rollers and the use of beaters the cloth is very effectually
washed. These machines are much more economical in the use of water than the older forms, and
yet they do their work as well, if not better.

(9) =Chemicing.=--This is the actual bleaching operation, familiarly known as "chemicing,"
that is, the treatment of the goods with bleaching powder. The previous operations have resulted
in obtaining a cloth free from grease, natural or acquired, and from other impurities, but
it still has a slight brownish colour. This has to be removed before the goods can be considered
a good white, which it is the aim of every bleacher they should be.

To get rid of this colour they are subjected to some final operations, the first of which is
now to be considered. The chemicing consists in running the goods through a weak solution of
bleaching powder (chloride of lime), piling the goods up into heaps, and allowing them to lie
overnight, the next day they are finished. As the cloth has received, or ought to have received,
a thorough bottoming, only a weak bath of chemic is required, about 1/2 to 1° Tw. is quite
sufficient. The solution is prepared in a stone cistern. There is very little difficulty in
making it, the only precaution necessary is to have the solution quite clear and free from
undissolved particles, for if these get upon the cloth they will either lead to the production
of minute holes, or they may overbleach the fibre, which in such case will have the power of
attracting excess of colour in any subsequent dyeing process and thus lead to stains, the origin
of which may not be readily grasped at the first sight.

It is best, therefore, either to allow the solution to settle in the cistern till quite clear,
which is the simplest way, or to filter through cloth.

The chemicing is best done cold and with weak solution, at 1/2° Tw. rather than 1° Tw. Warming
the liquor increases the rapidity of the bleaching action, but there is a risk of over-chloring,
which must be avoided as far as possible, because there is then danger of tendering the fibre,
moreover, such over-chlored cloth has an affinity for colouring matters that is not at all
desirable, as it leads to the production of stains and patches in the dyeing operations. It
is much better, when a single chemicing does not bleach the cloth sufficiently and give a white,
to run the cloth twice through a weak liquor rather than once through a strong liquor.

Although the chemicing is followed by a sour, which, acting on the bleaching powder, liberates
chlorine that bleaches the fabric, yet the greatest proportion of the bleaching effect is brought
about while the pieces are being piled up into heaps between the chemicing and the sour. In
this state they should be left for some hours, covered over with a damp sheet, care being taken
that they are not left piled so long as to become dry, as in this event there is a great risk
of tendering the cloth or fabric; it is, therefore, a good plan to moisten them with a little
water from time to time. They should not be tightly piled up, but be as loose as possible,
so that the air can get to them, as it is the carbonic acid and other acid vapours in the air,
that by acting on the chemic causes slow liberation of chlorine, which effects the bleaching
of the goods.

(10) =White Sour.=--After the chemicing the goods are treated to a sour, for which purpose
either hydrochloric acid or sulphuric acid may be used.

Hydrochloric acid possesses the advantage of forming a more soluble salt of lime (calcium chloride)
than does sulphuric acid (calcium sulphate), and it has a more solvent action upon any traces
of iron and other metallic oxide stains which may be present in the goods. On the other hand,
on account of its fuming properties, it is unpleasant to work with. The souring is done by
passing the goods through an acid liquor at 2° Tw. strong and piling for two or three hours,
after which it is washed. This final washing must be thorough, so that all traces of acid and
chemic are washed out, otherwise there is a tendency for the goods to acquire a yellowish colouration.

So far the routine has been described of the so-called madder bleach, the most perfect kind
of bleach applied to cotton cloths. Besides this two other kinds of bleach are distinguished
in the trade. Turkey red and market bleach. The former is used when the cloth or yarn is to
be dyed plain or self-coloured with delicate shades with Alizarine; the latter is used for
cloth sold in the white. As the operations involved in producing these are identical in their
method of manipulation to those already described, it will only be necessary to give an outline
of the process for each one.

=Turkey Red Bleach=--(1) Rinse through water into a kier and boil for two hours. (2) Lime boil
for three to four hours. The amount of lime required is rather less than what is used with
the madder bleach, from 2-1/2 lb. to 3 lb, lime to each 1 cwt. of goods being quite sufficient.
(3) Souring as in the madder bleach. (4) Lye boil, using about 100 lb. caustic soda to a ton
of goods, and giving ten hours' boil. (5) Second lye boil using about 50 lb. soda ash to a
ton of goods, after which the goods are well washed. (6) Chemicing as with the madder bleach.
(7) Souring as with the madder bleach, then washing well.

This represents an average process, but almost every bleacher has his own methods, differing
from the above in some of the details and this applies to all bleaching processes. It is obvious
that the details may be varied to a great extent without changing the principles on which the
process depends.

=Market Bleach=--Here all that requires to be done is to get the cloth of a sufficient degree
of whiteness to please the eye of the customer. Market bleachers have, however, to deal with
a wider range of goods than is dealt with in the former kinds of bleaches, from very fine muslins
to very heavy sheetings. Now it is obvious from a merely mechanical point of view, that the
former could not stand as rough a process as the latter, therefore there must be some differences
in the details of muslin bleaching and sheeting bleaching. Then again with goods sold in the
white, it is customary to weave coloured headings or markings, and as these have to be preserved,
to do so will cause some slight alteration of the details of the bleach with this object. On
all these points it is difficult to lay down general rules because of the very varying feature
of the conditions which are met with by the market bleacher.

The resin boil may be omitted, only two lye boils being required, and these need not be so
long or of such a searching character as the corresponding boils of the madder bleach. Outlines
of two or three such processes, which are now in use in bleach works, will serve to show the
general routine of a market bleach. The proportions given are calculated for 10,000 lb. of goods:--

(1) Lime boil, using 500 lb. of lime, and giving a twelve-hours' boil. (2) Grey sour, hydrochloric
acid of 2° Tw., then wash well. (3) Lye boil, 100 lb. caustic soda, 70 per cent. solid, ten
to twelve hours' boil; wash. (4) Second lye boil, 100 lb., 58 per cent. soda ash, twelve-hours'
boil. (5) Chemic, bleaching powder liquor at 1° Tw., boil for three hours; wash. (6) White
sour, sulphuric acid at 2° Tw.; wash well.

The length of boil with the lime and lyes will depend upon the quality of the goods, heavy
goods will require from two to three hours longer than will light goods, such as cambrics,
the time given above being that for heavy goods, sheetings, etc.

Another process is the following:--

(1) Lime boil, using 480 lb. lime, and boiling for ten hours. (5) White sour as above; wash well.

A smaller quantity of lime is used here, but on the other hand the lye boil is a stronger one.
This process gives good results. Some bleachers do not use lime in their market bleaches, but
give two lye boils, in which case the process becomes:--

(1) Lye boil, using 140 lb. caustic soda, of 70 per cent., giving ten hours' boil and washing
well. (2) Second lye boil, using 120 lb. soda ash, 58 per cent., and giving ten hours' boil;
wash. (3) Chemic as above. (4) White sour as above; wash well.

Light fabrics, such as laces, lace curtains, muslins, etc., cannot stand the strain of the
continuous process, and they are therefore subjected to a different bleaching process, which
varies much at different bleach works. One method is to lime by steeping for an hour in a weak
lime liquor, using about 2 lb. of lime to 100 lb. of goods; they are then boiled in the kier
for eight hours, after which they are washed. This washing is done in what are called dash
wheels, large hollow wheels, the interior of each being divided into four compartments. Into
these the goods are put, and the wheel is caused to revolve, while at the same time a current
of water flows with some force into the interior of the wheel and washes the goods.

The wheels do their work well, and the action being gentle the finest fabrics can be washed
without fear of any damage. It is necessary that the speed at which they are driven should
be such that as the wheel revolves the goods are thrown from side to side of each compartment;
if the speed be too slow they will simply slide down, and then they do not get properly washed;
on the other hand, if the speed be too great then centrifugal action comes into play and the
goods remain in a stationary position in the wheels with the same result. As to the amount
of washing, it should be as before. After this washing they are boiled again in the kier with
soda ash, using about 8 lb. ash for 100 lb. goods and giving seven hours' boil, which, after
washing, is followed by a second boil with 5 lb. ash and 4 lb. soft soap for each 100 lb. of
goods, giving eight hours' boil. They are then washed and entered into the chemic. The chemicing
is done in stone cisterns, which are fitted with false bottoms, on which the goods can rest,
and which allow any insoluble particles of bleaching powder to settle out and prevent them
from getting on the goods. The liquor is used at the strength of about 1/2° Tw., and the goods
are allowed to steep about two hours; they are then placed in a hydro-extractor and the surplus
chemic is whizzed out, after which they are steeped in sour of hydrochloric acid at 1° Tw.,
kept in a stone cistern, the goods being allowed to steep for two hours. Next they are washed,
well whizzed, passed through a blueing water, whizzed again, and dried. The remarks made when
describing similar operations of the madder bleach as to the action, testing, etc., of the
chemicals, are equally applicable here.

Another plan of bleaching fine fabrics is shown in outline in the following scheme:--

(1) Wash; boil in water for two hours. (2) Boil in soda for five hours, using 80 lb. soda ash
of 58 per cent., and 30 lb. soft soap for 1,000 lb. of goods. (3) Second soda boil, using from
40 lb. to 50 lb. soda ash, and 15 lb. to 20 lb. soft soap, giving four hours' boil; after each
soda boil the goods should be washed. (4) Chemic, using bleaching powder liquor at 1/2° Tw.,
allowing them to steep for two hours, then wash and whiz. (7) Chemic as before. (8) Sour as
before, after which the goods are well washed.

In the bleaching of Nottingham lace curtains for the soda boils there is used what is called
the "dolly," which consists of a large round wooden tub about 5 feet to 6 feet in diameter
and about 2 feet 6 inches to 3 feet deep; this is made to revolve slowly at about one revolution
per minute. Above the tub on a strong frame are arranged four stampers or beaters, which are
caused to rise and fall by means of cams. The goods are placed in the tub with the scouring
liquors and the dolly is set in motion, the beaters force the liquor into the goods, and the
revolution of the tub causes the beaters to work on a fresh portion of the goods at every fall.

This is rather an old-fashioned form of machine, and is being replaced by more modern forms
of boiling kiers. In bleaching certain kinds of muslins in which the warp threads are double,
and in the case of lace curtains, it is necessary to endeavour to keep the threads as open
and prominent as possible. This cannot be done with the continuous process, which puts a strain
on the threads and thus effaces their individuality. To avoid this the fabrics have to be dealt
with in bundles or lumps, and on these no strain is put, therefore every thread retains its
individuality. The process above described is applicable.

=Yarn Bleaching.=--Yarn is supplied to the bleacher in two forms: (1) warps in which the length
of the threads may vary from as little as 50 to as much as 5,000 yards; these can be dealt
with in much the same manner as a piece of cloth, that is, a continuous system can be adopted;
(2) hanks, which are too well known to require description. Sometimes yarn is bleached in the
form of cops, but as the results of cop bleaching are not very satisfactory it is done as little
as possible.

=Warp Bleaching.=--The warp, if very long, is doubled two, three or four times upon itself,
so as to reduce its length. Care should be taken that the ends of the warp are tied together
to prevent any chance of entangling, which would very likely happen if the ends were left loose
to float about. As a rule, warps are not limed, but the adoption of the liming would assist
the bleaching. In outline warp bleaching consists of the following operations:--

(1) Lye boil, using 30 lb. caustic soda, 70 per cent., and 50 lb. soda ash, 58 per cent., giving
six hours' boil, and washing. (2) Sweeting, boil with 80 lb. soda ash, 58 per cent., for two
hours. (3) Washing. (4) Chemicing, bleaching powder liquor at 1° Tw., washing. (5) Sour, sulphuric
acid at 2° Tw,. washing well. (6) Hydro extracting and drying.

About 2,000 to 3,000 lb. of warps are usually treated at one time.

The machinery used may be the same as that used in the cloth bleach, and each operation may
be conducted in the same manner. In some warp bleachworks, while the kiers are made in the
same way, the other machines are made differently. The chemicing and souring is done in strong
cisterns provided with a false bottom; in these the warps are allowed to remain for about two
hours. A more complicated form of chemicing cistern is also in use. This is made of stone,
and is provided with a false bottom. Above is a tank or sieve, as it is called, having a perforated
bottom through which the liquor flows on the warp in the cistern below.

Under the chemicing cistern is a tank into which the liquor flows, and from which it is pumped
up into the sieve above. A circulation of liquor is thus kept up during the whole of the operation.
Owing to the action of the chemic or acid on the metal work of the pump there is great wear
and tear of the latter, necessitating frequent repairs. This is a defect in this form of chemicing
machine. For drying the warps a hydro-extractor is first used to get the surplus liquor from
the goods. This machine is now well known, and is in use in every bleachworks, where it is
familiarly known as the "whiz," and the operation is generally called whizzing. Hydro-extractors
are described under the head of "Dyeing Machinery".

The actual drying of the warps is done over the "tins" as they are called. These are a number
of large cylinders measuring about 20 inches in diameter and about--for warp drying--5 feet
long. Usually they are arranged vertically in two tiers, each tier consisting of about five
cylinders, not arranged directly one above another but in a zig-zag manner, the centres of
the first, third and fifth being in one line, and the centres of the others in another line.
The cylinders are made to revolve by suitable driving mechanism, and into them is sent steam
at about 5 lb. to 10 lb. pressure, which heats up the cylinders, whereby the warp passing over
them is dried. This drying may be partial or complete, being regulated by the speed at which
the warps pass over the cylinders and by the quantity of steam passed into the same. The quicker
the speed and the smaller the amount of steam, the less the warps are dried; while, on the
other hand, the slower the speed and the larger the amount and greater the pressure of the
steam, the quicker and more thoroughly are the warps dried. As there is a great deal of water
formed in the cylinders by the condensation of the steam, means are always provided for carrying
off this water, as its retention in the cylinders often leads to serious results and damage
to the machine.

=Hank Bleaching.=--So far as the chemical part of hank bleaching is concerned it does not differ
from that of warp bleaching; the same operations and proportions of chemicals may be used and
in the same order, but there is some difference in the machinery which is used. The hanks may
be manipulated in two ways: they may be either kept in separate hanks, which is the method
mostly in vogue in modern bleach-houses, or they may be linked together in the form of a chain.
In the latter case the operations and the machinery may be the same as used in the madder bleach,
with a few unimportant minor differences. In the final washing the dumping machine is used,
which consists of two wooden bowls set over a wooden trough containing the wash waters. The
top bowl is covered with a thick layer of rope and merely rests on the bottom bowl by its own
weight, and is driven by friction from the latter. The chain of hanks passing through between
the two bowls has the surplus liquor squeezed out of it, and as there is considerable increase
in the thickness at the points of linkage between the hanks, when these pass through the bowls
they lift up the top bowl, which, when the thick places have passed through, falls down with
a sudden bump upon the thin places, and this bumping drives out all the surplus liquor and
drives the liquor itself into the very centre of the hanks, which is sometimes an advantage.

In modern bleach-houses the chain form is gradually giving place to the method of bleaching
separate hanks, partly because so many improvements have been made in the hank-bleaching machinery
of late years, which enables bleachers to handle the yarn in the form of separate hanks better
than they could do formerly; and as bleaching in separate hanks means that the cotton is kept
in a more open form, and is thus more easily penetrated by the various liquors which are used,
it follows that the bleach will be better and more thorough, which is what the bleacher aims
at. At the same time weaker liquors or, what is the same thing, less material can be used,
which means a saving in the cost of the process. (2) Wash through washing machine. (4) Chemic
as in warp bleaching. (5) Sour as in warp bleaching. (6) Wash well. (7) Hydro extract and dry.

Sometimes, if the yarn is to be sold in thread form, before the last operation it passes through
another, viz., treating with soap and blue liquors, which will be dealt with presently.

The lye boils are done in the ordinary kiers, and do not call for further notice, except that
in filling the goods into the kiers care should be taken that while sufficiently loose to permit
of the alkaline liquors penetrating through the hanks properly, yet they should be so packed
that they will not float about and thus become entangled and damaged.

The washing is nowadays done in a special form of washing machine, designed to wash the hanks
quickly and well with as little expenditure of labour and washing liquor as possible. There
are now several makes of these washing machines on the market, most of them do their work well,
and it is difficult to say which is the best. Some machines are made to wash only one bundle
at once, while others will do several bundles. Generally the principle on which they are constructed
is the same in all, a trough containing the ash liquor, over which is suspended a revolving
reel or bobbin, usually made of wood or enamelled iron, the bobbin being polygonal in form
so that it will overcome readily any resistance the yarn may offer and carry the hank round
as it revolves. The hank dips into the wash liquor in the trough, and as it is drawn through
by the revolution of the bobbin it is washed very effectually. The moving of the hank opens
out the threads, and thus the wash liquor thoroughly penetrates to every part of the hank,
so that a few minutes' run through this machine thoroughly washes the yarn. A constant stream
of clean water is passed through the trough. This machine may also be used for soaping and
sizing the hanks if required. By extending the trough in a horizontal direction, and increasing
the number of reels or bobbins, the quantity of material that can be washed at one time can
be extended, although not to an indefinite extent. The workman can start at one end of the
machine and fill all the bobbins with yarn, by the time he has finished this the first bobbinful
will have been washed sufficiently and can be taken off and replaced with another quantity
of yarn, and thus one by one the bobbins may be emptied and refilled, which means that a considerable
amount of material can be got through in the course of a day. To avoid the labour of walking
to and fro to fill and refill the bobbins, washing machines are constructed in which the trough
is made in a circular form. The bobbins are placed at the ends of radial arms which are caused
to revolve round over the trough, the workman is stationed constantly at one part of the circle,
and as the arms pass him in their motion round the trough he takes off the washed hanks and
puts on the unwashed hanks. By this machine he is saved a very considerable amount of labour,
and is able to do his work in a more convenient manner. The yarn is well washed in such a machine.
The trough may be entire or it may be divided into a number of compartments, each of which
may contain a different kind of wash liquor if necessary. Of course it goes almost without
saying that in all these machines the liquors in them may be heated up by means of steam pipes
if required.

The chemicing and souring of the hanks does not call for special mention, beyond the fact that
these operations are done in the same manner as warp bleaching. In Fig. 5 is shown Mather &
Platt's yarn-bleaching kier, which is designed to bleach cotton yarn, either in hanks or in
the warp forms, without removing it from the vessel into which it is first placed. The process
is as follows: The hot alkali solution is circulated by means of a distributing pipe through
the action of an injector or centrifugal pump to scour the yarn; then water is circulated by
means of a centrifugal pump for washing. The chemic and sour liquors are circulated also by
means of pumps, so that without the slightest disturbance to the yarn it is quickly and economically
bleached.

STAINS AND DAMAGES IN BLEACHED GOODS.

Some of the stains in bleached goods which are met are beyond the control of the bleacher to
avoid, while others are due to various defects in the process. Now the subject of stains can
only be dealt with in a very general way, because of the varying manner in which they arise.
The recognition of the particular way in which the stains have been formed is sometimes difficult
to discover. First, there are iron stains, which are the most common kind of stains that a
bleacher is troubled with. These generally make their appearance in the form of red spots of
greater or less extent. As a rule they are not visible before the pieces are fully bleached.
Their origin is varied. Sometimes they arise from the machinery; if the kiers are not kept
thoroughly whitewashed out, there is a great liability to produce iron stains. Every other
machine which is used in the process is made of iron, and should be kept free from rust, or
the chances of stains are considerably increased. The water used in the bleaching must be free
from iron. A small trace will not make much difference, but some waters contain a great deal
of iron, so much so that they are absolutely unusable for bleaching purposes. Iron stains are
often due to a very curious cause: the dropping of the oil used in the spinning or weaving
machinery on to the cotton during the process of manufacture. This oil is often charged with
iron derived from the wear and tear of the machinery, and which often gets fixed in the form
of red spots of oxide on the fibre. Iron stains cannot readily be extracted.

Oil stains are also common. These take the form of bright yellow stains in various shapes,
sometimes extending along the piece in streaks, at other times in patches in various places
about the piece. Generally these oil stains do not make their appearance as soon as the piece
is bleached, and often the bleacher sends out his goods quite white and apparently all right,
and yet soon afterwards comes a complaint that the goods are stained yellow. One cause of these
yellow oil stains can be traced to the use of paraffin wax in the sizing of the warps. In this
case the stains are more or less streaky in form, and extend along the length of the piece.
They are due to the fact that paraffin wax is not saponifiable by the action of the alkalies
used in the process, and is therefore not extracted. When the goods are chemiced the chlorine
acts upon the paraffin and forms chlorine compounds, which are acted upon by light, and turn
yellow by exposure to that agent and to the atmosphere. Paraffin, when used for the sizing
of warps, may sometimes be completely extracted from the fabric, but this depends upon the
proportion of tallow or other fat which is used in the composition of the sizing grease. If
the paraffin is only present in small quantities, and the grease well mixed, then it may be
possible to extract all the paraffin out of the fabric during the bleaching process, but if
the paraffin is in large proportion, or the grease not well mixed, it is scarcely possible
to extract it all out, and stains must be the result. These stains can hardly be considered
the fault of the bleacher, but are due to the manufacturer of the cloth using cheap sizing
compositions on his warps. There are no means which can be adopted before bleaching to ascertain
whether paraffin exists in the cloth. If found to be present, the remedy which is the easiest
practically is to saturate the cloth with a little olive oil, or better, pale oleic acid. Allow
the fatty matter to soak well in, and then boil the goods in a little caustic soda. Another
cause of oil stains is the use of mineral oils in the lubrication of cotton machinery. These
mineral oils partake of the nature of paraffin in their properties, and therefore they are
unsaponifiable by the action of alkalies. Like paraffin wax, they resist the bleaching process,
and much in the same manner produce stains. Oil stains show themselves in various forms--sometimes
as spots. These may be due to the splashing of oil from the spindles during the process of
spinning, or they may be in patches of a comparatively large size over the pieces.

These are perhaps due to the oil dropping on to the piece during the process of weaving when
in the loom. The oils used for the lubrication of spinning and weaving machinery should contain
a fair proportion of some fatty oil, such as olive or rape or cocoanut oil. Not less than 10
per cent. should be used. More would be better, but the cost of course would be greater and
oil is an item with spinners and manufacturers.

Stains are occasionally due to other causes rather too numerous to be dealt with in detail,
and sometimes these stains only appear once in a lifetime, and often do not make their appearance
during the bleaching process, but only in after dyeing or calico printing processes in curious
ways the causes of which are very baffling to find out.

CHAPTER III.

DYEING MACHINERY AND DYEING MANIPULATIONS. Figs. 6 and 7 show respectively a rectangular vat
and a round tub much in use in dye-houses. The turning over one lot of yarn is technically
called "one turn" and the dyer often gives "three turns" or "four turns" as may be required.
Fig. 8 shows a vat fitted with a steam pipe.

COP DYEING.

In weaving fancy-coloured fabrics the ordinary mode is to dye the yarn in the hank form, then
those which have to be used for the weft are wound into the cop form for placing in the shuttles.
The cop form is that in which the yarn leaves the spinning frame, and necessarily apart from
the dyeing there is labour involved in reeling it into hanks and winding it back again into
the cop form, not only so but there is necessarily some waste made in these operations. Many
attempts have been made, with more or less success, to dye the yarn while in the cop form and
so save the cost of the hanking and copping above referred to as well as the waste which occurs.
Cops cannot be satisfactorily dyed by simple immersion in a boiling dye-bath, the outside becomes
dyed but the central portions as often as not remain quite white, and there is a distinct grading
of colour or shade throughout the cop, the outer portions being deeply dyed while the middle
portion will only have a medium shade and the central portions either not being dyed at all
or only faintly tinted, much depending on the firmness with which the cop has been wound. A
soft, loosely wound cop is much more thoroughly dyed than a hard, tightly wound cop. This uneven
dyeing of the cops is not satisfactory, and must be avoided if cop dyeing is to be a success.
Many dyers have turned their attention to this question of dyeing yarn in the cop form, and
many machines have been devised for the purpose; some of these have not been a success, but
a few have been found to yield satisfactory results and proved in practice very successful.

In all machines for dyeing cops one principle has been adopted--that of drawing or forcing
the dye-liquor through the cop.

=Graemiger's Cop-dyeing Machine.=--This is shown in section in Figs. 13 and 14. Although simple
in its work it is somewhat complex in its construction and difficult to describe. The machine
consists of a dye-vat to hold the requisite dye-liquors. In the upper portions of this is an
iron casting formed with four chambers, the two lower ones of which are immersed in the dye-liquor
while the upper chambers are above it. The sides of this casting are formed of metal plates
which fit tightly against the casting and form as nearly air-and water-tight joints with it
as it is possible to make. These metal plates are on a spindle and can be rotated. They are
perforated and made to carry spindles, on which are placed the cops to be dyed. The two lower
chambers are in connection with a pump which draws the air from them and so creates a vacuum
inside the chambers. To fill this, liquor from the dye-vat passes through the cops and into
the chambers, and is in turn drawn through the pump and returned to the dye-vat. In this way
there is a continual circulation of dye-liquors from the vat through the cops, chambers and
pump back to the vat again.

The left upper chamber is practically a blank chamber. Those portions of the cop carriers in
contact with it are filled with cops, which are placed on perforated spindles; the discs are
given a quarter revolution which brings the cops into the dye-liquor and in connection with
the left lower chamber and are dyed. At the same time the section of the cop carriers now in
contact with the left top chamber is filled with a new lot of cops, another quarter of a revolution
is given to the cop carriers, which immerse the new lot of cops in the dye-liquor. The third
quarter of the cop plates is filled with cops. A third movement of the cop plates now takes
place; this brings the first lot of cops out of the dye-liquor and in contact with the right
upper chamber, where the surplus liquor is drawn out of them and returned to the dye-vat. Another
revolution brings the cops back to their first position, they are now removed and a new lot
substituted. These proceedings go on continuously. Although not quite free from defects the
machine gives very good results, the cops being very uniformly dyed through.

=Beaumont's Cop-dyeing Machine.=--This is illustrated in Fig. 15. It consists of a copper hemispherical
dye-vessel, which is provided with a tightly fitting lid, although this is not needed in all
cases. The bottom of the vessel is in communication with the suction end of a centrifugal pump,
while the delivery end of the pump is attached to the upper end of the dye-vessel, the action
of the pump being to secure a constant circulation of dye-liquor from the bottom to the top
of the dye-vessel. Arrangements are provided by a peculiar and ingenious contrivance fitted
in one side of the dye-kettle for introducing steam to heat the dye-liquor to any required
degree. As in most forms of cop-dyeing machines, the cops are placed on perforated metal spindles.
The cops and spindles are inserted in holes in a perforated metal plate, and over them is placed
a thin metal plate, technically called the antifloater, whose object is to prevent the cops
from becoming detached from the plate. This plate, full of cops, is now placed in the dye-vessel
and rests upon a flange which is provided for that purpose. When the cop plate is in position
the dye-vessel is divided into two chambers--a lower chamber and an upper one, in the latter
being the cops.

The pump draws liquor from the chamber under the cop plate and so creates a vacuum, which during
the working of the machines ranges from 10 to 20 inches in degree. To supply this vacuum, dye-liquor
is drawn from the upper chamber through the cops. The pump returns the liquor to the dye-vessel.
A very rapid circulation of dye-liquor takes place, from 25 to 50 gallons per minute passing
through the cops and pump. From five to ten minutes is sufficient to dye the cops. The machine
is simple in its construction and gives good results, the cops being completely dyed through.
One important consideration in cop dyeing is to be able to dye successive batches of cops to
exactly the same shade, and this is quite possible with this machine.

=Young & Crippin's Cop-dyeing Machine.=--So far as simplicity of construction is concerned
this lies between the two preceding machines. It consists of four parts with some accessory
mechanism. There is first a dye-liquor storage tank at the base of the apparatus in which the
liquor is kept stored and boiling (if necessary) ready for use, above this and at the front
end is the dye-chamber, this communicates at its lower end by a pipe with the dye-liquor in
the dye-vat. Then there is a large vacuum chamber, in which by means of an injector a vacuum
can be formed, this directly communicates with a liquor-receiving chamber which again in turn
is in communication with the upper part of the dye-chamber. The cops are placed on perforated
spindles as usual, and these on a perforated plate and are kept in place by a plate which is
screwed down on them. The charged cop plate is placed in the dye-chamber on which a cover is
placed and screwed down. By means of a lever the injector is set at work, a vacuum created
in the vacuum and receiving chambers, the consequence being that dye-liquor is drawn from the
vat through the cops in the dye-chamber into the receiving chamber. When a certain quantity
of liquor has passed through, by a movement of a lever, the vacuum is destroyed, and the dye-liquor
runs back into the dye-vat; these operations are repeated until from past experience of the
working of the machine it is thought sufficient has passed through to dye the cops, when the
dye-chamber is opened and the cops taken out. This machine works very well.

=Mommer's Cop-dyeing Machine.=--This is in use in several continental dye-works. The central
portion of this machine is a rectangular dye-chamber, which can be hermetically closed by hinged
doors, the cops are placed side by side on trays provided with perforated bottoms, the trays
being placed one on the top of the other in the dye-chamber. From the top of the dye-chamber
passes a pipe to a centrifugal pump, and a similar pipe passes from the bottom of the chamber
to the pump. A separate vat contains the dye-liquor which is used. The pump forces the dye-liquor
through the cops which take up the dye. Arrangements are provided by which the direction of
the flow of the dye-liquor can be changed. This machine gives fairly good results, not perhaps
equal to those with the machines previously described.

=Warp-dyeing Machines.=--Although many warps, especially for fancy fabrics, are prepared from
yarns dyed in the hank or cop form, yet it is found advantageous when a warp is of one colour,
a self-colour as it is called, to form the warp from grey or white yarns and to dye it after
warping. If the warp were so wound as to be able to go into a Obermaier dyeing machine, it
would be possible to dye it in that machine, but generally warps are dyed in the open form
and are passed through a dyeing vat, commonly called a warp-vat which is constructed as shown
in Fig. 16. These warp-dyeing machines generally consist of a long rectangular wooden dye-vat,
divided by two partitions into three compartments, each provided with steam pipes to heat up
its contents; between the first and second and between the second and third compartments is
fitted a pair of squeezing rollers, while the third compartment is fitted with a heavier pair
of squeezing rollers. Motion is given to these rollers by suitable gearing, and they serve
to draw the warp through the machine. Guide rollers are fitted in the compartment, and the
warp being taken round these, it passes several times up and down and through the dye-liquors
contained in the compartments. These warp-dyeing machines may be made of sufficient width to
take one, two, three or more warps at one time as desired.

The three compartments of the machine may contain different liquids or all the same liquid
according as the nature of the shade to be dyed demands. The passage is done slowly so as to
give the warp time to absorb the liquors and take up the dye. When all the length of warp has
been sent through, it is said to have been dyed "one end". Sometimes this will be enough, but
often it is not, and so the warp is sent through again, given another end, and still again
if the full shade has not been attained.

After being dyed in this machine the warp is sent through another one containing various wash
liquors to finish the process.

Fig. 17 shows a warp-dyeing machine similar to, but a little more elaborate in construction
than, the vats just described. 18 and 19. Figs. This may be done on such a machine, as is shown
in Fig. 24, page 79, but having all the guide rollers below the liquor, so that at no time
is the piece out of the liquor, except, of course, when entering and leaving.

Fig. 24 shows a form of cloth-dyeing machine much used in the cotton trade. It consists of
a number of compartments fitted with guide rollers at top and bottom, and round which the cloth
is threaded, so that it passes up and down in the dye-liquor several times. Between each two
compartments is a pair of squeezing rollers to press out all surplus liquors. All the compartments
may be filled with the same dye-liquor, or with different dye-liquors and developing liquors,
as may be most convenient and required for the work in hand. Such a machine is used in dyeing
logwood black, aniline black, and many of the direct colours, etc.

From the direct colours a large number of light shades are dyed on to cotton cloth by the process
known as padding; this consists in passing the cloth through a liquor containing the dye-stuff,
usually a little phosphate of soda is added, then between squeezing rollers, and finally drying
the cloth. For this process there is used what is called a padding machine. This is shown in
Figs. 25 and 26.

It consists essentially of a trough, which contains two or more guide rollers, and in this
is placed the padding liquor. Above the trough is fitted squeezing rollers, sometimes two as
in Fig. 25, or three as in Fig. 26. Besides these, there are winding and beaming and other
guide rollers. Fig. 25 shows the simplest padding machine, where the cloth passes once through
the liquor and through the squeezing rollers. In Fig. 26 the cloth passes several times through
the liquor and twice through the squeezing rollers, thus ensuring a more perfect impregnation
of the cloth with the dye-liquor, and therefore a more uniform dyeing of the cloth.

CHAPTER IV.

THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF COTTON DYEING.

Students of cotton dyeing should have a good knowledge of the principles that underlie the
processes of dyeing cotton fabrics. It is only by recognising these principles and then endeavouring
to apply them to each individual case of dyeing, that the dyer or student will obtain a thorough
grasp of his subject. It is the aim of the author to lay down these principles in a clear and
intelligible form. Cotton is dyed in its loose raw condition, as yarn in the form of hanks,
yarn in the form of cops, and in the woven pieces of every kind. Formerly the idea was prevalent
among cotton dyers that the process which succeeds with piece goods would not answer with yarns.
It is now recognised however that this is not so, that a process which will dye cotton yarn
will also dye cotton piece goods or loose cotton. The differences which do exist in the practical
working of the processes entirely arise from the difference in the form in which the cotton
is presented to the dyer, for it must be obvious to any one that the mode of handling a piece
of cotton cloth during the time it is in the dye-bath must be different from that of a hank
of yarn, a parcel of loose cotton or a number of cops. The various machines used for dyeing
all these forms and the manner of working them have been already described.

The dyes, whether natural--derived from the various dye-woods, etc.--or artificial--prepared
from coal tar--may according to their varied chemical composition and constitution be divided
into seventeen or eighteen distinct groups, but it is not intended here to give any account
of them; the reader is referred to other books such as The Dictionary of Coal Tar Colours,
by George H. Hurst; The Chemistry of Coal Tar Colours, by Benedikt and Knecht; or The Chemistry
of Organic Colouring Matters, by Nietzki, where the composition and properties of the dyes
are fully described.

From the manner in which the various dyes are applied to cotton, linen, wool and other fibres
we can divide them into five groups, thus:--

     Group 1. Direct dyes.
       "   2. Basic dyes.
       "   3. Acid dyes.
       "   4. Mordant dyes.
       "   5. Miscellaneous dyes.

First group, direct dyes, are now very numerous; they dye cotton, linen and other vegetable
fibres from a plain bath, and do not require those fibres to be prepared in any way. Hence
the reason of their being named direct, or by some the substantive colours. They will also
dye wool and silk.

The second group, basic dyes, comprise some of the oldest of the coal-tar dyes; they dye wool
and silk direct from plain baths, but require cotton, linen and other vegetable fibres to be
previously prepared in baths of tannic acid, sumach or other tanning material.

The third group, acid dyes, are very numerous, and from both their chemical composition and
mode of dyeing can be divided into several sub-groups. Their principal feature is that they
dye wool and silk from baths containing Glauber's salt and some acid, hence their name of "acid
dyes". They do not dye cotton or linen well, some not at all, others are absorbed to a slight
extent by the cotton, but only pale tints are produced, while others may be used along with
metallic mordants to dye bright but pale and fugitive shades. The acid dyes comprise such as
Acid green, Formyl violet, Acid magenta, Azo scarlet, Orange. Thiocarmine R., Patent blues,
Wool greens, indigo extract, Eosines, etc.

The fourth group, mordant dyes, includes the alizarine series of coal-tar colours, logwood,
Brazil wood and most natural colours, and some others. The principal feature of these dyes
is that they require the cotton to be prepared with some metallic oxide, like those of chrome,
alumina and iron, before dyeing, and the colour which is got depends partly upon the particular
dye-stuff used and partly upon the oxide with which the cotton has been prepared.

The fifth group includes a few dyes like indigo, which are dyed on to cotton by various and
special processes.

The processes of cotton dyeing employed to-day may be comprised under eight heads, namely:--

(1) Direct dyeing. (2) Direct dyeing followed by fixation with metallic salts. (3) Direct dyeing
followed by fixation with developers. (4) Direct dyeing followed by fixation with couplers.
(5) Dyeing on tannic mordant. (6) Dyeing on metallic mordant. (7) Developing the colour direct
on fibre. (8) Dyeing by impregnating the cotton with the dye-stuff, followed by oxidation or
steaming.

It is of course not easy to elaborate a simple scheme of grouping the processes that shall
definitely include all processes, but the above grouping will be found as successful as any,
and each will be considered as fully as is deemed necessary.

(1) DIRECT DYEING.

Nothing in the history of cotton dyeing caused such a revolution in the methods of working
as did the introduction some fifteen years ago of the forerunners (Congo red, Benzo purpurine,
Chrysamine, Azo blue) of the now numerous group of direct dyes, followed as they were by the
Benzo, Congo, Diamine, Titan, Chicago and Zambesi members of the group. Prior to their introduction
cotton dyeing was always more or less complicated and mordanting methods had to be employed.

With the introduction of the direct dyes cotton dyeing has become even more simple than wool
or silk dyeing, and now all that is necessary is to prepare a dye liquor containing the necessary
amount of dye-stuff and Glauber's salt, or common salt or soda, or some similar body, or a
combination thereof. The method of working is to place the cotton in a lukewarm or even in
a hot bath, raise to the boil, allow the goods to remain in the boiling bath for half an hour
to an hour, then take them out, wring, wash and dry. This method is simple and will answer
for all the dyes of this group. There are some that do not require the working to be done boiling;
it is simply needful to enter the cotton into a boiling bath and work without steam until the
bath has cooled down. Furious boiling is not needed--a gentle simmer gives the best results.
Uneven dyeing seems to be an impossibility in this group of dyes, unless the cotton is dirty;
no matter how the operations are carried on, level dyeing is the rule not the exception. An
enormous variety of shades and tints can be obtained from these dyes, and they can be combined
together in every conceivable manner and proportions.

No satisfactory explanation has yet been given as to what feature in the chemical composition
of these dye-stuffs give them such an affinity for the cotton fibre as to enable them to dye
in so simple a manner such fast shades as they do; it is a fact there is such an affinity and
there the matter must rest.

It has been found in practice that the efficiency of the dyeing operation depends, primarily
of course, on the particular dye-stuff used, but also upon other factors, that a certain assistant
be used. Some dyes work on the cotton better from a bath containing Glauber's salt, while with
others common salt works best, while a little soda along with the salt facilitates the dyeing
in some cases. It is practically impossible to specify here the best assistant for all the
direct colours, on account of the great number of such dyes which are known, but in the practical
recipes given below much useful advice will be found. Then the quantity of such assistants
used is of much importance; there is one proportion at which the best results are obtained
for each dye. The dyer should find out for himself by experiment and the use of the dyes he
employs in his work what assistant and how much is best, and make his baths up to that strength.
With some dyes 10 per cent. of the assistant will be found sufficient, while with others, 25
to 30 per cent. will not be too much. The percentage refers to the weight of the cotton that
is taken.

One function of the assistants must be pointed out here: it is that in some cases they--especially
the alkaline ones, soda, potash, borax, phosphate of soda--help the dyeing by promoting the
solubility of the dye-stuff in the bath, thereby retarding the exhaustion of the bath and ensuring
the production of level shades.

The following formulas show the application of the foregoing principles to the dyeing of numerous
shades on to cotton and also the dyes which are applicable, some of the combinations which
are possible with these direct dyes, and give some idea of the tints and shades of the colours
that can be got by their means. The best assistants to use are also indicated in the formulæ.

All the formulæ here given and all that will be given in future chapters are intended for 100
lb. weight of cotton fabrics in any condition, whether of loose cotton, yarn in cops, hanks
or wraps and woven fabrics of every kind.

Bright Red.--Dye with 3 lb. Benzo purpurine 4 B, 3 lb. soda and 15 lb. Glauber's salt. This
dye may also be used with 3 lb. soap and 10 lb. soda in the bath with equally good results.

Pale Salmon.--Prepare a dye-bath with 3 lb. salt, 5 lb. phosphate of soda, 1 lb. soap, 1/2
oz. Benzo orange R. For a pale shade like this it is not necessary to heat to the boil, a temperature
of 170° to 180° F. is sufficient.

Dark Plum.--Prepare a dye-bath with 20 lb. of Glauber's salt, 2-1/2 lb. soap, 1-1/2 lb. Diamine
black R O. and 2 lb. Diamine red N. Enter at 180° F., work for a few minutes, then raise to
boil and dye to shade; lift, wash and dry.

Turkey Red.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1-1/2 lb. Benzo purpurine 4 B, 1 lb. Brilliant purpurine,
2 lb. soap, 10 lb. borax. Enter the cotton at the boil and work for one hour; lift, wash and dry.

Lilac Red.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb. soap, 5 lb. soda, 3 lb. Rose azurine G. Work at
the boil for one hour.

Pink.--Prepare a bath containing 10 lb. soda, 1 oz. Rose azurine B. Enter at a boil and work
for one hour, boiling to shade; lift, wash and dry.

Bordeaux.--Prepare a dye-bath with 15 lb. Glauber's salt, 5 lb. soda crystals, 3 lb. Diamine
fast red F, 1 lb. Diamine violet N, 1 lb. Rose azurine G. Enter cold, then raise to the boil,
and work for one and a half hours; lift, wash and dry.

Rose Pink.--The dye-bath is made with 2 lb. Erika B, 20 lb. Glauber's salt and 3 lb. soap,
working at near the boil to shade.

Brilliant Red.--Make the dye-bath with 24 lb. Brilliant purpurine R and 25 lb. Glauber's salt,
working at the boil for one hour.

Deep Pink.--Make the dye-bath with 1/2 lb. Diamine rose B D, 1/2 lb. soda, 1 lb. soap and 5
lb. Glauber's salt, working at 150° F. for half an hour.

Dark Red.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Diamine red 5 B, 2 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt,
working at the boil for one hour.

Pink.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 oz. Diamine rose B D, 1 lb. Turkey-red oil, 40 lb. Glauber's
salt. Dye at the boil for one hour.

Scarlet.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 lb. Diamine scarlet 3 B, 1 lb. Titan scarlet C, 1/2 lb.
Titan orange, 50 lb. salt. Work at the boil for thirty minutes, then lift, wash and dry. The
dye-bath is not exhausted and may be used for further lots.

Crimson Red.--Prepare the dye-bath with 5 lb. Titan scarlet D and 50 lb. salt. Work at the
boil for fifty minutes, then lift, wash and dry. The bath is not exhausted, the cotton taking
up only about 3 lb. of the dye-stuff; it may therefore be kept for further use, when for each
succeeding lot 3 to 3-1/2 lb. of colour and 25 lb. of salt only need be added.

Scarlet.--Prepare the dye-bath with 5 lb. Rosophenine 5 B, dissolved in 50 gallons hot water,
2 gallons caustic soda lye (60° Tw.). When thoroughly dissolved add 150 lb. salt. Make up the
bath to 100 gallons. Enter the yarn and work for a quarter to half an hour at about 180° F;
squeeze off and wash thoroughly in cold water until the water runs off clean.

Rose Red.--Use 1 lb. Diamine red 10 B, 3 lb. soda, and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Claret.--Use 3 lb. Diamine Bordeaux B, 3 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Pink.--The dye-bath is made with 5 oz. Dianil red 4 B, 5 lb. salt and 3 lb. soda.

Scarlet.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Dianil red 4 B, 15 lb. salt and 5 lb. soda. Work at the
boil for one hour.

Claret.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Dianil claret G, 3 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt. Work at the boil for
one hour.

Bright Scarlet.--Use in the dye-bath 2-1/2 lb. Dianil red 4 B 5 oz. Dianil orange G, 3 lb.
soda and 15 lb. salt.

Dark Maroon.--Make the dye-bath with 1 lb. Dianil red 4 B, 2 lb. Dianil claret G, 13 oz. Dianil
claret B, 5 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt.

Crimson.--Dye with 3 lb. Congo rubine, 5 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Dark Maroon.--Use in the dye-bath 1 lb. Benzo purpurine 4 B, 3 lb.

Pale Fawn Red.--Use in the dye-bath 1-1/2 oz. Diamine red 5 B, 1-1/2 oz. Diamine catechine
G, 3 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Rose Red.--Prepare the dye-bath with 3/4 lb. Diamine Bordeaux B, 3 oz. Diamine orange B, 3
lb. soda and 20 lb. salt. Glauber's salt.

Salmon.--Dye with 1-1/2 oz. Diamine fast red F, 1-1/2 oz. Diamine fast yellow B, 3 lb. soda
and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Terra-Gotta Red.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Diamine brown M, 3/4 lb. Diamine fast red F, 3 lb. soda
and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Lilac Red.--Dye with 4 lb. Heliotrope B B, 3 lb. soda and 15 lb. Glauber's salt.

Bright Pink.--Use in the dye-bath 2 oz. Rose azurine G, 1 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.
Nearly all the direct reds give good pink tints when used in proportion, varying from 0.1 to
0.25 per cent. of dye-stuff.

Bright Straw.--Dye in a bath made of 1/4 lb. Titan yellow G G, 10 lb. salt, for three-quarters
of an hour, then lift, wash and dry.

Yellow.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1 lb. Titan yellow Y, 10 lb. salt.

Sun Yellow.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb. Sun yellow, 30 lb. common salt. Dye at the boil.
The bath is kept for further lots.

Yellow.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1 lb. Direct yellow R, 20 lb. Glauber's salt. Dye at the
boil for one hour.

Yellow.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb. Curcuphenine, 20 lb. common salt. Work at the boil
for one hour; lift, rinse and dry.

Old Gold.--Make the dye-bath with 5 lb. Diamine yellow N powder, 20 lb. phosphate of soda,
10 lb. soap. Work at the boil for one hour; finish in the usual way. The bath may be kept for
other lots of goods.

Dark Yellow.--The bath is made from 2 lb. Toluylene orange G, 10 lb. phosphate of soda, and
2-1/2 lb. soap, working at the boil to shade.

Bright Yellow.--Use 1 lb. Chrysophenine, 2 lb. phosphate of soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Lemon Yellow.--Use 1 oz.

Yellow.--Dye with 2 lb. Oxyphenine and 20 lb. salt.

Yellow Olive.--Use in the dye-bath 2 oz. Cotton brown N, 4-1/2 oz. Diamine bronze G, 3 lb.
soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Gold Yellow.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb.

Cream.--Dye with 1/2 oz. Toluylene orange G, 24 grains Brilliant orange G, 1 lb. soda and 10
lb. Glauber's salt.

Primrose.--Dye with 3 oz. Dianil yellow 3 G, 2 lb. soda and 10 lb. salt.

Gold Yellow.--Dye with 2-1/2 lb. Dianil yellow G, 1/2 lb. soda and 15 lb. salt.

Buff Yellow.--Dye with 3-1/2 oz. Dianil yellow 2 R, 1/2 lb. soda and 10 lb. salt.

Orange.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb.

Red Orange.--Make the dye-bath with 3 lb. Mikado orange 4 R and 25 lb. salt. Work at the boil
for one hour. Work at the boil for one hour.

Pale Orange.--The dye-bath contains 6 oz. Diamine Orange G, 1-1/2 oz. Diamine fast yellow B,
1/4 oz. Diamine scarlet B, 3 lb. soda and 15 lb. Glauber's salt.

Olive Yellow.--Dye with 3/4 lb. Diamine fast yellow B, 1 oz. Oxydiamine black N, 1-1/2 oz.
Diamine bronze G, 3 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Dark Orange.--Dye with 3 lb. Columbia orange R, 3 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt at the
boil for one hour.

Bright Orange.--Use 3 lb.

Pale Orange.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil orange 2 R, 2 lb. soda and 10 lb. salt at the boil for
one hour.

Brilliant Orange.--Dye with 4 lb. Dianil orange G and 20 lb. salt for one hour.

Deep Orange.--Dye with 2 lb. Oxydiamine orange R, 3/4 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt for an hour.
Diamine orange B, 3 lb. soda and 15 lb. Glauber's salt. Chrysamine R, 10 lb. phosphate of soda
and 2 lb. soap.

Green.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb. Benzo green G, 10 lb. Glauber's salt. Enter lukewarm,
bring slowly to the boil, dye for one hour at the boil.

Russian Green.--Make the dye-bath with 16 oz. Diamine black H W, 4 oz.

Dark Olive.--Prepare a dye-bath with 3-1/2 lb. The goods are entered into the bath at 160°
F., then heat is raised to the boil, and the dyeing continued for one hour, then lift, wash
and dry.

Dark Olive.--Dye in a bath of 2 lb. Titan yellow Y, 1 lb. Diamine brown Y, 1-1/2 lb. Diamine
blue 3 B, 2 lb. soda. Work for one hour, then lift, wash and dry.

Olive.--Prepare a dye-bath with 15 lb. phosphate of soda, 3 lb. soap, 1-1/2 lb. Diamine yellow
N, 4 oz. Diamine blue 3 B, 1-1/2 oz. Diamine brown V. Dye at the boil to shade; lift, wash and dry.

Green Olive.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1 lb. Diamine black R O, 1 lb. Chrysamine, 1/4 lb.
Benzo brown, 5 lb. soda, 5 lb. salt, 2 lb. soap. The goods are entered at about 180° F. and
worked for a short time, then the temperature is raised to the boil, and the goods are worked
for one hour, lifted, washed and dried.

Reseda.--Prepare a bath with 10 lb.

Sage Green.--Prepare a dye-bath with 10 lb.

Drab.--Prepare the dye-bath with 10 lb. Cross dye drab, 5 lb. soda crystals. Enter at the boil
and work at this temperature for half an hour. Whilst dyeing add gradually 75 lb. salt. Rinse
well and dry.

Olive.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb. Dianil olive, 5 lb. phosphate of soda, 5 lb. common
salt. Dye at the boil for one hour.

Olive.--The dyeing is done in a bath containing 4 oz. Diamine black H W, 1-3/4 lb. Diamine
bronze G, 5 lb. soda, 15 lb. Glauber's salt. Work at the boil for one hour.

Grass Green.--Make the dye-bath with 2 lb. Chrysamine G, 1-1/2 oz. Benzo azurine G, 3 lb. soap
and 10 lb. borax, working at the boil for one hour.

Bright Grass Green.--Dye for an hour at the boil with 1 lb. Sulphon azurine D, 2 lb. Thiazole
yellow and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Green.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb.

Dark Green.--Dye with 3 lb.

Green.--Use in the bath 3 lb.

Dark Sea Green.--Dye with 5 oz. Diamine black H W, 3 oz.

Pale Green.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Diamine fast yellow B, 2 oz. Diamine black H W, 3 lb.
soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Bright Pea Green.--Use in the dye-bath 1 oz. Thioflavine S, 1/4 oz. Diamine sky blue F F and
20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Dark Green.--Use 1-3/4 lb. Diamine green G, 3/4 lb.

Sea Green.--Use 2 oz. Dianil yellow R, 2-1/2 oz. Dianil blue B, 1-3/4 oz. Dianil dark blue
R, 1 lb. soda, and 20 lb. salt, working at the boil.

Leaf Green.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Dianil yellow 3 G, 1 lb. Dianil blue B, 11 oz. Dianil blue
2 R, 3 lb. soda, and 20 lb. salt at the boil for one hour.

Deep Green.--Dye with 2-1/2 lb. Dianil yellow 3 G, 2-1/2 lb. Dianil blue 2 R, 6 oz.

Greens are largely produced by mixing yellows and blues together as will be seen from the recipes
given above; the particular shade of green which is got from a combination of blue and green
depends upon the quality of the dye-stuffs used: thus, to produce bright greens of a pure tone,
it is essential that the yellow used shall have a greenish tone like Thioflavine S, Thiazole
yellow, or Dianil yellow 3 G, while the blue must also have a greenish tone like Diamine sky
blue, Benzo blue 3 B, etc. By using yellows like Diamine fast yellow R, and dark blues like
Benzo azurine 3 R, Diamine blue R W, Dianil dark blue R, the green which is got is darker and
duller in tone. The addition of such a dye as Diamine black B H throws the shade more on to
an olive, while a brown dye-stuff, like Diamine brown M, or an orange dye, like Titan orange
N, throws the green on to a sage tone. Examples of these effects will be found among the recipes
given above.

It may be added here that by using smaller quantities, but in the same proportions as given
in the above recipes, a great range of tints and shades of green can be dyed from very pale
to very deep.

Bright Blue.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1/2 lb. Congo blue 2 B, 5 lb. salt, 5 lb. phosphate of
soda, 2 lb. soap. Work at the boil for one hour, then rinse and dry.

Dark Navy.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1 lb. Diamine black R O, 2 lb. Diamine blue 3 R, 8 lb.
Glauber's salt, 2 lb. soap. Enter the cotton at 180° F., and boil for one hour.

Pale Blue.--Prepare a dye-bath with 10 lb. salt, 3 lb. soda, 3 oz. diamine blue 3 R. Work for
one hour at the boil, then lift, wash and dry.

Sky Blue.--Prepare a dye-bath with 2 lb. Titan como G, 20 lb. common salt, 2 oz. acetic acid.
Work at the boil for half an hour, then lift, wash and dry.

Bright Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1-1/2 lb. Chicago blue 6 B, 20 lb. Glauber's salt,
3 lb. soap. Work at the boil for one hour, then lift, wash and dry.

Pale Sky Blue.--Make the dye-bath with 1 oz. Chicago blue 6 B, 10 lb.

Dark Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2-1/2 lb. Diamineral blue R, 2-1/2 lb. Triamine black
B, 15 lb. Glauber's salt, in 50 gallons of water. Enter at 150° F., and boil for one hour.
Allow the goods to remain until the water is cold, when the dye-bath will be completely exhausted.

Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb. Diamine steel blue L, 2 lb. soda, 15 lb. Glauber's salt.
Dye at the boil for one hour.

Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 lb. Diamine blue B G, 2 lb. soda, 20 lb. Glauber's salt.
Dye at the boil for one hour. In shade this is very similar to that got with Diamine brilliant
blue G, which however should be used for light shades on account of its brightness. For deep
shades Diamine blue B G, is preferable, because of its greater tinctorial power.

Light Indigo Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1 lb. Enter at about 150° F., and dye at the
boil for one hour.

Navy Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 lb. Benzo chrome black blue B, 15 lb. Glauber's salt,
3 lb. soda. Work at the boil for one hour; lift, rinse and dry.

Grey Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb.

Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1 lb.

Slate Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1/4 lb. Diamine black B H, 3/4 oz. Diamine fast yellow
B, 2 lb. soda, and 10 lb. Glauber's salt. Dye at the boil to shade.

Deep Blue.--Use 3-1/4 lb. Diamine blue B X, 1/2 lb.

Blue.--Dye at the boil for one hour with 1-1/2 lb. Diamine sky blue, 2 oz. Diamine green B,
2 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Navy.--Dye with 1 lb. Dianil dark blue R, 8 oz. Dianil black C R, 5 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt
at the boil for one hour.

Dark Navy.--Use 2 lb. Dianil blue B, 2 lb. Dianil dark blue R, 3/4 lb. Dianil black C R, 2
lb. soda and 25 lb. salt, working at the boil for one hour.

Deep Blue.--Dye with 3-1/2 lb.

Deep Blue.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil dark blue R, 3 lb. caustic soda 70° Tw., and 25 lb. salt,
working at the boil for one hour.

Violet Blue.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil dark blue 3 R and 25 lb. salt at the boil for one hour.

Bright Blue.--Use 1 lb. Dianil blue B, and 20 lb. salt, working at the boil for one hour.

Full Blue.--Dye with 3 lb.

Dark Blue.--Dye with 3 lb. Oxydiamine black A, 2 lb.

Blue.--Use 2 lb. Direct indigo blue and 15 lb. Glauber's salt; work at the boil.

Bright Blue.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Titan como S N, 2 lb. acetic acid and 20 lb. salt,
working at the boil for one hour.

Turquoise Blue.--Dye with 1 lb.

Dark Navy.--Use 4 lb. Titan navy R, and 20 lb. salt at the boil for one hour.

Green Blue.--Dye with 1 lb. Dianil blue G, 2-1/2 oz. Dianil yellow G, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb.
salt at the boil for one hour.

Many more formulæ could have been given, but the above will perhaps suffice; they include all
the best of the direct blues. Paler tints of blue may be got by using from 1 to 2 per cent.
of any of these blues and also of the many direct blacks now on the market. The direct blues
as a rule have a good degree of fastness to light.

Lilac.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1/4 lb. Hessian brown 2 M, 1 oz.

Plum.--Dye with 3 lb. Oxydiamine violet G, 3 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt.

Violet.--Make the dye-bath with 3/4 lb.

Violet.--Dye with 12 oz. Dianil blue 4 R, 2 oz. Dianil blue B and 10 lb. salt at the boil.

Lilac.--Dye with 1-1/2 oz. Diamine rose G D, 3/4 oz. Diamine sky blue F F, 1 lb. soda and 10
lb. Glauber's salt at the boil to shade.

Red Violet.--Make the dye-bath with 1/2 lb. Diamine violet N, 1/2 oz.

Red Violet.--Dye with 1 lb.

Bright Red Lilac.--Dye with 1-3/4 lb. Erika B N, 4 oz.

Grey Lilac.--Dye with 12 oz.

Pale Lilac.--Dye with 2-1/2 oz. Dianil claret B, 2-1/2 oz. Dianil blue 4 R, and 10 lb. salt.

Light Plum.--Dye with 10 oz. Dianil claret B, 10 oz. Dianil blue and 20 lb. salt.

Dull Lilac.--Dye with 1/2 lb. Diamine brown V, 1 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Heliotrope.--Dye with 4 oz. Heliotrope 2 B, 1 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Plum.--Dye with 3 lb. Congo Corinth B, 3 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt.

Red Lilac.--Dye with 6 oz. Oxydiamine violet G, 2 oz.

Violet.--Dye with 3 oz. Diamine violet N, 2 oz. diamine blue 3 R, 1 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's
salt.

Fawn Drab.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1 lb. Cachou de laval, 1/4 oz. Benzo purpurine B. Enter
the cotton into this bath in the cold and heat to the boil, taking about one hour for the operation,
then add 4 lb. common salt and boil for three-quarters of an hour longer; lift, wash and dry.

Pale Olive Brown.--The dye-bath is made with 1 lb. Diamine bronze G, 1 oz. Cotton brown N, 3 oz.

Red Brown.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1-3/4 lb. Cotton yellow, 4 lb. Hessian brown 2 B N, 2 lb.
Diamine black R O, 1 lb. soda, 2 lb. salt. Enter the goods at 180° F., then raise to the boil
and work to the shade; lift, wash and dry.

Brown Drab.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1/4 lb. Cotton brown N, 3/4 oz. Diamine yellow N, 3/4
oz. Diamine black B O, 15 lb. phosphate of soda, 3 lb. soap. Work at the boil for one hour.

Gold Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 16-1/4 oz. Toluylene orange G, 9-1/2 oz. Toluylene orange
R, 4-3/4 oz. azo mauve, 2-1/2 lb. soap, 5 lb. soda. Dye at the boil for one hour.

Chestnut Brown.--Prepare a dye-bath with 10 lb. common salt, 2 lb. Benzo brown G, 1/2 lb. Benzo
azurine G, 1/2 lb. Chrysophenine. Enter the goods at 150° F., raise to the boil and dye boiling
for one hour. Azo violet. Enter the cotton at 150° F., raise to the boil and dye boiling for
an hour; lift, wash and dry.

Brown.--Prepare a dye-bath with 5 lb. soda, 10 lb. Glauber's salt, 12 oz. Chrysamine, 1 oz.
Benzo purpurine, 6-1/4 oz. Benzo azurine. Dye at the boil for one hour, rinse and dry. The
brown thus got is fast to washing. Benzo brown N B X, raise to 150° F., enter goods, heat to
boil, and work for one hour; lift, rinse and dry.

Dark Brown.--Prepare a dye-bath with 20 oz. Cotton brown N. Enter the yarn at 180° F., give
three turns, raise temperature to boil, and work to shade; lift, rinse and wash.

Gold Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 lb. It may, therefore, be kept for further lots, adding
3 lb. more colour and about 20 lb. more salt for each batch of cotton, or if it is not desired
to keep the bath, add less colour to start with, and towards the end of the operation add more
salt.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 lb. Paramine brown G, 20 lb. Glauber's salt, 2 lb. soda.
Dye at the boil for one hour.

Light Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 3 lb. Titan brown Y, 3 oz. Columbia green, 32-3/4 oz.

Pale Brown.--The dye-bath is made with 2 lb. Mikado orange 4 R, 3 oz. Benzo fast grey, 30 lb.
Glauber's salt. Work at the boil for one hour, then lift, ash and dry.

Gold Brown.--Make a dye-bath with 1 lb. Titan gold, 50 lb. common salt. Enter at the boil,
work for an hour, then lift, wash and dry. Keep the bath for another lot of goods; it will
only require the addition of about 14 oz. of colour and 10 lb. salt.

Buff Brown.--Make the dye-bath with 3/4 lb. Titan gold, 1/4 lb. Titan brown R, 5 oz. Titan
blue 3 B, 40 lb. common salt. Work at the boil to shade, then lift, wash and dry.

Deep Chestnut Brown.--Make the dye-bath with 3 lb. Titan brown R, 1-1/2 lb. Titan blue R, 25
lb. common salt. Work at the boil for an hour, then lift, wash and dry.

Light Seal Brown.--Make the dye-bath with 10 lb. salt, 2 lb. soda, 14 oz. Oxyphenine, 3/4 lb.
Atlas red R, 6 oz. Diamine blue B X. Work at the boil to shade, then lift, wash and dry.

Pale Nut Brown.--Use in the dye-bath 4-1/2 oz. Diamine catechine G, 1 oz. Diamine brown M, 1 oz.

Walnut Brown.--Dye with 1 lb. Diamine brown M, 3 oz. Diamine orange G, 2 oz.

Black Brown.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Diamine brown M, 3/4 lb.

Reddish Brown.--Dye with 2 lb. Dianil brown R, 5 lb. salt and 5 lb. phosphate of soda at the
boil for one hour.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 2 lb.

Brown.--Dye with 2-1/4 lb. Cotton brown N, 4 oz. Diamine brown M, 6 oz. Diamine catechine B, 6 oz.

Dark Chestnut Brown.--Dye with 2-1/2 lb. Dianil brown R, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt at the boil.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 2 lb. Dianil brown 3 G O, 2 lb. Dianil brown B D, 1 lb. Dianil red 4
B, 3 lb. soda and 25 lb. salt at the boil for one hour.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 5 lb. Mikado brown M and 25 lb. salt; work the cotton in
this at the boil for one hour.

Nut Brown.--Use in the dye-bath 2-1/2 lb. Benzo brown G and 15 lb. salt, working at the boil.

Dark Brown.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Benzo brown N B and 15 lb. Glauber's salt, working at
the boil.

Dark Brown.--Make the dye-bath with 4 lb. Diphenyl brown B N, 10 lb. Glauber's salt and 4 lb.
soap, working at the boil to shade.

Black Brown.--Use in the dye-bath 2-1/2 lb. Dianil brown 3 G O, 1-1/2 lb. Dianil brown G, 3/4
lb. Dianil dark blue R, 3 lb. soda and 25 lb. salt.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Zambesi black D, 1-1/4 lb.

Gold Brown.--Dye with 2 lb. Curcumine S, 1 lb. Columbia orange R, 5 oz. Columbia black F B,
3 lb. soda and 15 lb. Glauber's salt at the boil.

Dark Chestnut.--Dye at the boil with 2 lb. Columbia Orange R, 8 oz.

Sage Brown.--Dye with 1 lb. Zambesi black D, 1 lb. Curcumine S, 3/4 lb. Diamine orange G D,
3 lb. soda and 30 lb. Glauber's salt at the boil. Oxydiamine orange G, 3/4 lb.

Various other browns may be obtained by combining the various direct browns together or with
other direct dyes. The use of a yellow or orange will brighten them; that of a red will redden
the shade; the addition of a dark blue or a black will darken the shade considerably. It may
be useful to remember that a combination of red, orange and blue or black produces a brown,
and by using various proportions a great range of shades can be dyed.

Black.--Prepare a dye-bath with 6 lb. Diamine black R O, 2 oz. Thioflavine S, 2 lb. soap, 10
lb. salt. Enter the cotton at the boil and dye for one hour; lift, wash and dry.

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 5 lb. Direct deep black E extra, and 1/2 to 1-1/2 oz. common
salt per gallon of water. Dye at the boil for one hour. Glauber's salt. Dye for one hour at
the boil; lift, rinse and dry. In working for from two to three hours the dye-bath will exhaust
completely.

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 5 lb.

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 6 lb. Pluto black B. Dye at the boil for one hour with the
addition of 3/4 to 1-1/4 oz. Glauber's salt, 1/2 to 3/4 oz. soda ash per gallon of liquor.
To develop the shade it is necessary to dye in a boiling liquor.

Black.--Use 2-1/2 lb. Diamine jet black Cr, 2-1/2 lb.

Black.--Use 6 lb.

Besides the blacks given in the above recipes, there are other brands which are used in the
same way, and vary slightly in the shade of black they give.

All the direct blacks require working in strong baths to give anything like black shades; they
all have, more or less, a bluish tone, which can be changed to a jetter shade by the addition
of a yellow or green dye in small proportions, which has been done in one of the recipes given
above.

By coupling, chroming or developing, the direct blacks can be made to give full, deep and fast
blacks, and examples of their use in this manner will be found in following sections.

By using all the direct blacks in proportions varying from 1/4 to 1 per cent. of dye-stuff
to the weight of the cotton they give greys of various tints and depths; a few examples of
such greys will now be given.

Blue Grey.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1/2 lb.

Bright Grey.--Prepare a dye-bath with 4-1/2 oz. Azo mauve A M, 1-1/2 oz. Direct yellow G, 3
lb. soda, 15 lb. common salt.

Silver Grey.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1/2 oz. Neutral grey G, 10 lb. sulphate of soda. Work
at the boil to shade, then lift, wash and dry.

Slate.--Dye in a bath with 1/2 lb. Diamine black B H, 3 oz. Diamine bronze G, 15 lb. Glauber's
salt at the boil for three-quarters of an hour.

Bronze Grey.--Prepare a dye-bath with 1/2 lb. Diamine bronze G, 15 lb. Glauber's salt, 3 lb.
soap. Enter at about 160° F., raise to boil and work for one hour; lift, wash and dry. Diamine
black R O, 2 lb. Cotton brown N. Heat to about 150° F. Enter the goods, work for a short time,
then raise to the boil and work for one hour; lift, wash and dry. Diamine black R O, 3/4 oz.
Thioflavine S. Enter at from 150° Tw. to 180° F., raise to boil and dye for one hour; wash and dry.

Light Slate.--Prepare a dye-bath containing 2-1/4 lb. soap, 15 lb. Glauber's salt, 6 oz. Diamine
black R O, 1/2 oz. thioflavine S. Enter cotton at 140° F., work a little, then heat to boil
and dye to shade; lift, wash and dry. Dye for one hour at the boil.

Light Grey.--Prepare the dye-bath with 1 lb.

It may be convenient here to deal with the question of the fastness of the direct dyes to such
influences as light, air, acids, alkalies, washing and soaping, that have a very material influence
on the use of these dyes in dyeing various fabrics. This matter can only be dealt with here
in very general terms, for space is limited and the dyes are too numerous for detailed mention.
They vary very greatly in degrees of fastness, some are absolutely fast to all influences;
the blacks are among the fastest, generally these resist washing and soaping, stand acids well
and are fast to alkalies, light however affects them more or less, though they cannot be reckoned
fugitive colours. The few direct greens known are good colours; they stand washing, soaping
and light well, but they are affected by acids and alkalies. The blues vary very much, generally
they stand soaping and have a fair degree of fastness to light, acids have but little action,
alkalies tend to redden the shade, while heat also affects them. The direct browns are very
variable; they are in general not fast to light; they stand washing and soaping and resist
alkalies, but are altered by acids slightly. The yellows rank among the fastest of colours
to light and washing and soaping; acids have but little effect; they are reddened by alkalies.
Among the reds there is great variation in properties, generally they are not fast to light,
standing washing and soaping well and resisting weak alkalies; some of them, such as the Benzo
purpurines and Congo reds are very sensitive to acids, being turned blue with very weak acids,
but on washing or soaping the original colour comes back; others, like the Titan reds, Diamine
reds and Delta purpurines are not so sensitive, but these are affected by moderately strong
acids; there are one or two reds like Benzo fast scarlet 4 B S and Purpuramine D H, which are
fast to acids. The depth of shade which is dyed has some considerable influence on the degree
of fastness, the deeper shades of a colour are always faster than the paler shades, particularly
as regards light, a difference of 1/2 per cent, of dye-stuff has been known to make a very
appreciable degree of difference as regards the fastness of a colour to light.

In dyeing cotton with all the direct dyes, it is found that the whole of the dye-stuff is not
removed from the dye-bath, how much is taken up by the cotton, and the depth of the shade which
is dyed upon the cotton chiefly depends upon three factors:--

(1) Volume of water used. (2) Quantity of saline salts used. (3) Degree of affinity of the
dye-stuff for the fibre.

There may also be some minor factors such as temperature at which the dyeing is carried on,
the character and condition of the fabrics being dyed, etc.

The volume of water used in making the dye-bath has a very great influence upon the amount
of dye taken up by the cotton, the greater the volume of water the less dye is absorbed and
the paler the colour which is produced upon the fibre. It is therefore important to use as
little water as possible in making up the dye-bath, indeed, for anything like good results
to be obtained with some dyes, especially those of the sulphur series like Vidal black, Immedial
blacks, Katigen browns, Cross-dye blacks, Amidazol blacks, etc., it is necessary to employ
what is called a short bath, that is making it as strong as possible. The proportion of water
with such dyes should not exceed fifteen times the weight of the cotton being dyed, that is,
for every pound of cotton, 1-1/2 gallons of water can be allowed. This will suit the dyeing
of yarns and loose fabrics like knitted stockings and hosiery goods very well. In the case
of dyeing piece goods on a jigger or continuous dyeing machines even stronger liquors can be
used with advantage. With some of the older, direct dyes like Congo red, Benzo azurine, Diamine
scarlets, the proportion of water may be increased to twenty times the weight of the cotton.
In any case the quantity of water used should not exceed twenty-five times the weight of the
cotton.

The second factor, the quantity of saline salts, like Glauber's salt, soda, borax, etc., added
in the dyeing, is not without influence, generally the more that is added the more dye there
is left in the bath, but here again much depends upon the salt and the colouring matters used.
Some salts, more particularly Glauber's salt and common salt, tend to throw some dye-stuffs
out of the bath, and so the more there is used of them the deeper the shade produced on the
fabric. It is quite impossible, having regard to the scope of this book, to deal with this
question in detail. The dyer should ascertain for himself the best salts and the best proportions
of these to use with the particular dyes he is using. The recipes given above will give him
some ideas on this point.

The third factor, the degree of affinity of the dye for the cotton fibre, has some influence
on the depth of shade which can be dyed from any given strength of the dye-bath. There is a
very considerable difference among the direct dyes in this respect. There are some which have
a fair degree of affinity, while there are others which have but little affinity, and while
in the former case there is little dye left in the bath, in the latter case there is a good
deal. When dyeing plain shades with single dye-stuffs this is not of much moment, because if
the bath be kept for further use, as will be spoken of presently, the bath may be brought up
to its original strength by adding a proportionate amount of dye-stuff, but when compound shades
are being dyed, using two or more dyes, then this feature has some influence, for they will
not be absorbed by the fibre in the same proportion as they were put in the bath, and so when
making up the dye-bath for the second lot, and adding the same proportion of dyes, the shade
which is produced will not be quite the same, for the first lot of cotton in taking up the
dyes in varying quantities has altered their relative proportions, and so the bath for the
second lot of cotton will actually contain more of one dye than did the first bath, and the
influence of this excess of the one constituent will show itself in the shade ultimately dyed.
The more lots of cotton there are dyed in the bath the greater will this influence be. The
dyer must by practical experience find out for himself in what direction this feature of the
direct dyes exerts its influence on the particular dyes he is working with and make due allowance.

It is found in practice that from one-fourth to one-half of the original weight of dye-stuff
is left in the bath, and in order to be as economical as possible a custom has arisen of keeping
the bath and using it again for dyeing further lots of cotton. In thus making a continuous
use of dye-baths it is important in preparing the baths for the next lot of cotton to add first
the requisite quantities of dye-stuffs, how much will depend upon the factors and conditions
already detailed, but from one-half to three-fourths of the original quantities are added.
Practical experience alone is the guide to be followed.

Having added the dye-stuff, then sufficient water must be added to bring up the volume of the
bath to the proper amount, for it will have lost some. The loss of water arises from two sources:
first there is the evaporation, which always occurs when dye-baths are heated up, and, second,
there is the mechanical loss due to its absorption by the material which is being dyed. When
a piece of cotton or other textile fabric is immersed in a dye liquor it absorbs mechanically
some of it, and this amount may be roughly put down as about its own weight; thus 100 lb. weight
of cotton will take up 10 gallons of liquor and carry that quantity out of the bath. To some
extent this may be minimised by a previous wetting out of the cotton, which will then have
in it as much liquor as it will take up, and so practically no more will be taken up from the
dye-bath. Any loss of volume which may thus occur can be remedied by the addition of water.

The dye-baths containing in solution, in addition to the dye-stuff, salt, or Glauber's salt,
or any other added substance, the cotton in taking up the dye liquor will of course take up
some of these in proportion to the volume of liquor absorbed. The amount may range from 4 oz.
to 1 lb. per gallon of liquor, and if 100 lb. cotton is being dyed and takes up from 10 to
15 gallons of liquor, it is obvious that it must absorb from 3 to 10 lb. of saline matter,
and as the salinity of the dye liquor is of some importance in dyeing direct colours, in making
up the bath for the next lot of cotton this must be allowed for and suitable additions made.
In order to do this properly it is a good plan to rely upon the Twaddell.

The dyer should take the Twaddell of his bath before use and always make up his baths to that
strength. This will be found to range from 3° to 12° Tw.

Thus, for instance, a dye-bath made from 120 gallons of water with 20 lb. to 25 lb. common
salt or Glauber's salt with the dye-stuffs will stand at 4° Tw., one made with 50 lb. common
salt or Glauber's salt at 8° Tw., while one which is made with 80 lb. to 100 lb. salt will
stand at 12° to 13° Tw. If the dyer always maintains his liquors at one uniform degree Twaddell
he can invariably depend upon getting uniform shades from his dye-baths. This uniform strength
is attained by adding more salt or more water as the case may require.

Of course the continuous working of dye-baths cannot go on for ever; sooner or later the baths
become thick and dirty, and then they must be thrown away and a new bath started.

(2) DIRECT DYEING FOLLOWED BY FIXATION WITH METALLIC SALTS.

It is an acknowledged principle in dyeing that to produce colours fast to washing, soaping
and rubbing, there must be produced on the fibre an insoluble coloured substance. Now as the
direct dyes do not essentially produce such insoluble bodies when dyed on the cotton, the colours
they form are not always fast to washing and soaping. It has been ascertained, however, that
some of the direct dyes, e.g., Benzo azurine, Chicago blue, Catechu browns, Diamine blues,
Diamine browns, etc., are capable of uniting with metallic bodies to form insoluble colour
lakes, and this combination can take place on the fibre. Fast shades may be dyed with the dye-stuffs
named above, and with others of this group, by first dyeing them in the usual way, then passing
through a boiling bath containing bichromate of potash or copper sulphate, either together
or separately. The two fixing agents here named have been found to be the best, although others,
as, for instance, zinc sulphate, chromium fluoride and iron sulphate have been tried. With
some dyes there is little or no alteration in shade, but in others there is some change, thus
the blues as a rule tend to become greener in tone, and browns also tend to acquire a greener
tone and deeper shade. The treated shades thus obtained are notable for considerable fastness
to washing, soaping and light. It is to be noted that bichromate of potash exercises both a
fixing and an oxidising action on dye-stuffs, hence it is needful to use it with some degree
of caution and not in too great an amount, otherwise with some dyes there is a risk of over-oxidation,
and in consequence poor shades will be developed. The following recipes will serve to show
what dyes may thus be used, and the colours that can be obtained with them. By using 1 lb.
of the dye-stuff in the same way a light red shade is got.

Orange.--Dye at the boil for one hour with 1 lb. Chrysamine G, 3 lb. soap and 10 lb. Glauber's
salt, then rinse and fix in a fresh boiling bath with 1 lb. bichromate of potash, 3 lb. sulphate
of copper and 2 lb. acetic acid.

Yellow.--Dye with 3-1/2 lb. Diamine yellow N, 3 lb. soap and 15 lb. phosphate of soda, then
fix with 4 lb. fluoride of chromium.

Gold Yellow.--Prepare the dye-bath with 3 lb. Benzo chrome brown 5 G, 1 lb. soda ash, 12 lb.
Glauber's salt. Dye at the boil for one hour and rinse. This gives an orange brown. To get
the yellow shade, afterwards chrome with 3 lb. bichromate of potash, 3 lb. sulphate of copper,
1 lb. acetic acid, in a fresh bath. Enter at about 130° F., bring to the boil, and boil for
half an hour.

Pale Leaf Green.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil yellow 3 G, 1 lb. Dianil yellow R, 1 lb. Dianil blue
G, and 20 lb. salt, then fix with 3 lb. copper sulphate and 2 lb. acetic acid. Dianil blue
G, and 20 lb. salt, fixing with 4 lb. copper sulphate and 2 lb. acetic acid.

Dark Green.--Dye with 2 lb. Dianil yellow R, 1-1/2 lb.

Pale Olive Green.--Dye with 2-3/4 lb. Diamine fast yellow B, 1-1/4 lb.

Russia Green.--Dye with 2-1/2 lb. Diamine blue R W, 10 oz. Diamine dark blue B, 2-1/2 lb.

Blue Green.--Dye with 1-3/4 lb. Diamine sky blue F F, 6 oz. Diamine fast yellow B, 1 lb. soda
and 10 lb. Glauber's salt; fix with 2 lb. sulphate of copper and 1 lb. acetic acid.

Bronze Green.--Use in the bath at the boil 4 lb. Diamine bronze G, 2 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's
salt, then fix with 4 lb. fluoride of chromium.

Pea Green.--Dye in a boiling bath with 1/2 lb. Diamine blue R W, 7 oz. Diamine catechine B,
2 lb. soda and 20 lb.

Light Green.--Prepare the dye-bath with 7-1/4 oz. Diamine blue R W, 5-1/2 oz.

Olive Green.--Dye with 2-1/4 lb. Chicago blue R W, 15 oz.

Pea Green.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Chrysophenine G, 1 lb.

Green.--Dye with 2-3/4 lb. Chicago blue 6 B, 5 oz.

Dark Green.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Diamine green B, 1-1/2 oz. Diamine bronze G, 1 lb.

Dark Bronze.--Use in the dye-bath 2-1/2 lb.

Dark Blue.--Prepare the dye-bath with 3 lb. Benzo blue R W, 10 lb. Glauber's salt; dye for
one hour at the boil, then treat in fresh bath with 1 lb. sulphate of copper at the boil for
half an hour.

Blue.--Dye with 1-3/4 lb. Diamine brilliant blue G, 1-1/4 lb.

Bright Navy.--Dye with 4 lb.

Deep Slate Blue.--Dye with 1-1/4 lb. Zambesi black F, 1-1/4 lb. Chicago blue B, 6 oz. Diamine
new blue R, 2 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt, fixing with 5 lb. sulphate of copper and
2 lb. acetic acid.

By mixing together the various Diamine blues a very great range of shades can be produced,
from pale sky-blue tints to the deepest of blues.

Bright Blue.--Dye with 2-1/4 lb. Dianil blue B and 20 lb. Glauber's salt; fix with 3 lb. of
fluoride of chromium.

Dark Blue.--Dye with 3 lb.

Red Violet.--Dye with 1 lb. Dianil blue 4 R and 10 lb, salt, fixing with 4 lb. fluoride of
chromium.

Dark Plum.--Dye with 3 lb.

Red Plum.--Use 3-3/4 lb.

Dark Chestnut Brown.--Dye for an hour in a boiling bath with 2-1/4 lb.

Brown.--Use 3 lb. Catechu brown G K, 15 lb. Glauber's salt and 1/2 lb. soap; after dyeing for
one hour at the boil treat in a fresh boiling bath with 3 lb. copper sulphate.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 9 oz. Diamine blue R W, 12-1/2 oz. Diamine orange B, 1-3/4 lb.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 lb. Benzo chrome brown 2 R, 20 lb. Glauber's salt (crystals)
and dye at the boil for one hour; afterwards treat with bichromate of potash and sulphate of
copper.

Nut Brown.--Dye in a bath with 4 lb. Benzo chrome brown G and 20 lb. salt, then treat in a
fresh bath with 4 lb. bichromate of potash, 4 lb. copper sulphate and 1 lb. acetic acid.

Chestnut Brown.--Dye at the boil for one hour in a bath containing 4 lb. Benzo chrome brown
R, and boiling bath with 4 lb. bichromate of potash, 4 lb. sulphate of copper and 1 lb. acetic
acid.

Dark Olive Brown.--Dye with 4 lb. Diamine bronze G, 1 lb. Diamine brown B, 1-3/4 lb.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 2 lb. Diamine brown M, 1 lb. Diamine fast red F, 1/2 lb.

Black Brown.--Dye with 1-3/4 lb. Diamine dark blue B, 3/4 lb. Diamine fast yellow B, 3 oz.

Pale Brown.--Use in the dye-bath 1 lb. Dianil brown 3 G O, 4 oz. Dianil brown E, 4 oz.

Walnut Brown.--Dye with 2-1/2 lb. Diamine blue 3 R, 1 lb.

Sage Brown.--Dye with 9 oz.

Red Chocolate.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil brown 3 G O, 13 oz. Dianil brown R, 13 oz.

Brown.--Dye with 2-1/4 lb. Chrysophenine G, 1-1/4 lb.

Nut Brown.--Dye with 3 lb. Glauber's salt.

Dark Grey.--Dye with 3 lb. Diamine orange B, 3 oz. Diamine blue R W, 1/2 lb. soda, 2 lb. soap
and 5 lb. Glauber's salt, fixing with 1 lb. sulphate of copper and 1/2 lb. acetic acid.

Slate Blue.--Dye with 1/4 lb. Diamine dark blue B, 2 oz.

Grey.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb. Cross-dye black 2 B, 5 lb. soda ash, 15 lb. common salt;
after rinsing leave the cotton in the air to age overnight, rinse again and work for half to
three-quarters of an hour at from 150° to 160° F. in a bath containing 5 lb. bichromate of
potash and 5 lb. sulphuric acid, then thoroughly rinse and dry.

Dark Grey.--Dye with 1 lb.

Green Grey.--Dye with 1 lb. Diamine dark blue B, 2 oz. Dianil black N, 1 lb. soda and 10 lb.
salt, fixing with 1 lb. copper sulphate and 1/2 lb. acetic acid. Diamine jet black R B, 1 lb.
Diamine dark blue B, 20 lb. Glauber's salt; dye at the boil for one hour, rinse and then treat
the goods simmering for twenty minutes with 4 lb. bichromate of potash.

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 8 lb. Chromanil black R F and 20 lb. Add 6 lb. only of the
dye-stuff to the bath for a second batch.

Black.--Use 5 lb.

It will be convenient here to deal with a small but growing and important class of dye-stuffs
which contain sulphur in their composition, and which, therefore, are named:--

=Sulphur or Sulphyl Colours.=

The original type of this group is Cachou de laval, sent out a good many years ago, but of
late years Vidal black, St. Dennis black, Cross-dye blacks and drab, Immedial blacks, blues
and browns, Amidazol blacks, browns and olives, Sulfaniline black and brown, Katigen blacks,
greens and browns, etc., have been added, and the group is likely to become a very numerous
one in the future.

All these colours are dyed on to the cotton or linen from baths containing soda and salt, while
some require the addition of sodium sulphide or caustic soda in order to have the dye-stuff
properly dissolved. They are very weak dyes compared with the direct colours, and require from
20 to 60 per cent. to produce full shades, although of this fully one-third remains in the
bath unabsorbed by the cotton. It is, therefore, important in order to work as economically
as possible to retain the bath, bringing it up to strength by the addition of fresh dye-stuffs,
etc.

Most of the dyes require the dyed goods to pass through a second bath of some reagent, bichromate
of potash, sulphate of copper, etc., in order to fully develop and fix the dye on the fabric.

The best method of using the various dyes of this group will be given in the form of formulæ.
Two points of importance are to use as strong a dye liquor as possible, and to expose the cotton
as little as possible to the air during the dyeing operation. The dye-stuffs when exposed to
the air readily become oxidised, and are thereby converted into insoluble products which become
fixed on the fibre in a loose form, and in that case the dyed fibre rubs rather badly.

Pale Brown.--Prepare a dye-bath with 15 lb. Cachou de laval, 10 lb. of soda, and 10 lb. salt.
The bath is not exhausted of colouring matter, and by adding one-half of the above quantities
of dye-stuff and salt may be used again for another lot of cotton. After the dyeing the cotton
is passed into a fixing bath of 2 lb. bichromate of potash and 1 lb. acetic acid, working at
180° F. ten to fifteen minutes.

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 200 gallons of water, 10 lb. soda, 10 lb. sulphide of sodium,
60 lb. salt and 16 lb. Immedial black V extra. Work at the boil for one hour, keeping the cotton
well under the surface during the operation, in the case of yarns this is effected by using
bent iron rods on which to hang the hanks in the vat, in the case of pieces by working with
vats the guide rollers of which are below the surface of the dye liquor.

There are three brands of Immedial black, viz., V extra, G extra and F F, which vary a little
in the tone of black they produce. The method of using is identical for all three. The dye-bath
is not exhausted of colour and so should be kept standing, for each subsequent lot of cotton
add 8 lb. Immedial black and 3 lb. sulphide of soda, and to every 10 gallons of water added
to bring the bath up to volume 1/2 lb. soda and 3 lb. salt.

These blacks are very fast to washing, light, etc. By using smaller quantities of dye-stuff
good greys can be dyed. Cross-dye black B, 10 lb. soda, 150 lb. salt. Dissolve the dye-stuff
in boiling water, then add the soda crystals and finally the salt. Enter the previously well-boiled
cotton at about 175° F. After a few turns raise the temperature to the boil as quickly as possible,
and work for one hour (just at the boil). Lift and thoroughly rinse without delay. (The better
the cotton is washed the clearer the ultimate shade.) After washing, wring up and let air age
for about one hour; the intensity of the black is thereby increased.

Meanwhile prepare a bath with 5 lb. bichromate of potash, 4 lb. sulphuric acid (168° Tw.).
Enter at 150° to 160° F., and work at this for about ten minutes. After chroming, wash thoroughly
to remove all traces of acid. At this stage, the usual softening may take place if desirable,
and finally dry at a low temperature.

The bath is kept up for further lots, and three-fourths the quantity of colouring matter, and
about half soda and one fourth salt are used. Wood, or iron cisterns are most suitable, and
copper pans or pipes must be avoided.

The dye-bath should be kept as short as possible, about twelve to fifteen times the amount
of water on the weight of cotton is advisable. The cotton when in the dye-bath should be exposed
as little as possible to the air.

There are several brands of these Cross-dye blacks varying in the tone of black they give.

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 5 lb. soda ash, 200 lb. salt and 20 lb. Amidazol black G,
this is heated to 150° F., the cotton is entered, the heat raised to the boil, and the dyeing
done for an hour at that heat. Lift, rinse well, then pass into a chroming bath, made from
5 lb. bichromate of potash and 3 lb. sulphuric acid, used at 160° F. for twenty minutes, then
lift, wash well and dry. The bath may be kept standing and used for other lots of cotton by
replenishing with about two-thirds of the original weight of dye-stuff and a little soda. There
are four brands of these Amidazol blacks which dye from a jet black with the G to a deep blue
black with the 6 G brand. The G, 2 G, and 4 G, used in small quantities, 2-1/2 to 3 lb., dye
good greys of a bluish tone, the 6 G gives a dull blue, the 4 G and 6 G, used in the proportions
of 7-1/2 to 10 per cent., give dark blues.

All these blacks may be combined with aniline black with good results as shown in the following
recipe:--

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 10 lb. Amidazol black 2 G, 5 lb. soda and 100 lb. salt. Work
at the boil for an hour, then rinse, pass into a cold bath made from 2-1/2 lb. aniline oil,
2-1/2 lb. hydrochloric acid, 6-1/2 lb. sulphuric acid, 7-1/2 lb. bichromate of potash, and
5-1/2 lb. perchloride of iron, 66° Tw. This is used cold for an hour, then the heat is slowly
raised to 160° F., when the operation is finished, and the cotton is taken out well rinsed
and finished as usual. Any of this class of black may be so topped with aniline black if thought
necessary A very fast black is thus got.

Black.--Make the dye-bath with 15 lb. Sulfaniline black G, 60 lb. salt, 10 lb. soda, and 5
lb. sulphide of sodium.

It has been observed in the practical application on a large scale of these sulphur blacks
that the cotton is liable to become tendered on being stored, although there are few signs
of such after the dyeing is finished. The exact cause of this is somewhat uncertain, the most
probable reason is that during the process of dyeing a deposit of sulphur in a fine state of
division has been thrown down on the cotton by decomposition of the dye-stuff, and that this
sulphur has in time become oxidised to sulphuric acid which then exerts its well-known tendering
action on the cotton.

The remedy for this evil lies partly with the dye manufacturer and chiefly with the dyer. The
dye manufacturer should see that his product is made as free from sulphur as possible, while
the dyer by careful attention to thorough washing, thorough fixation in the chrome, etc. baths,
tends to eliminate all sulphur from the goods, and so prevent all possibility of the cotton
becoming affected.

Blue.--Make the dye-bath with 22 lb. Immedial blue C, 13 lb. sulphide of sodium, 50 lb. salt
and 15 lb. caustic soda lye at 70° Tw. Work at just under the boil for one hour, keeping the
goods well under the surface of the liquor. After the dyeing the goods are well rinsed in the
water and then passed into a vat which contains 1 lb. peroxide of sodium and 1 lb. sulphuric
acid. This is started cold, after about fifteen minutes heat slowly to about 150°, work for
twenty minutes, then lift, wash and dry. For subsequent lots of cotton there only need be used
7 lb. Immedial blue C. 2 lb. sulphide of sodium, 3 lb. salt and 1-1/2 lb. caustic soda lye
at 70° Tw. The blue may also be developed by steaming with air in a suitable chest or steaming
chamber. By topping with 1/4 lb. New methylene blue N, very bright blue shades can be dyed.

Dark Navy.--Prepare the dye-bath with 25 lb. Immedial blue C, 24 lb. sulphide of sodium, 35
lb. common salt and 12 lb. caustic soda lye, working at the boil for one hour, then rinse and
develop in a bath made from 2-1/2 lb. peroxide of sodium and 2-1/2 lb. sulphuric acid, started
cold, then after twenty minutes heated to 160° F., twenty minutes longer at that heat will
be sufficient. For second and subsequent lots of cotton there is added to the old bath 15 lb.
Amidazol black 6 G, 5 lb. soda and 25 lb. salt.

Deep Blue.--Dye with 20 lb.

Dark Drab.--Prepare the dye-bath with 20 lb.

Brown.--Dye with 20 lb. Amidazol cutch, 5 lb. soda ash and 150 lb. salt, working at the boil
for one hour, then lift, wash thoroughly and dry. By after treatment in a bath of 3 lb. potassium
bichromate and 3 lb. sulphuric acid the colour is made fast to washing. The shade is not altered.

Buff.--Dye with 2-1/2 lb.

Pale Sea Green.--Dye with 4 lb.

Dark Green.--Dye with 20 lb.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 20 lb.

Dark Sage.--Dye with 20 lb. Amidazol drab, 5 lb. soda ash and 150 lb. salt for an hour at the
boil, then lift and chrome with 4 lb. potassium bichromate and 8 lb. sulphuric acid for thirty
minutes at 150° F., washing well afterwards.

All the Amidazol dyes are very fast to washing, acids, etc. They can be treated with sulphate
of copper or peroxide of sodium when they produce good shades. They may even be diazotised
and developed with beta-naphthol and phenylene diamine. The pale tints got by using from 2
to 4 per cent. of dye-stuff are useful ones, as also are the medium shades with 10 per cent.
of dye-stuff.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 10 lb.

Olive.--Dye with 10 lb. By chroming a darker and faster olive is got.

Brown.--Dye with 20 lb.

Pale Brown.--Dye with 8 lb. Immedial bronze A, 2 lb. soda, 2 lb. sulphide of sodium and 10 lb.

The Immedial blacks, blue, bronze and brown dye very fast shades, standing soaping, acids and
light. They may be combined together to produce a great range of shades of blue, brown, green,
grey, etc.

These examples will perhaps suffice to show how this new but important class of sulphyl colours
are applied to the dyeing of cotton. They may be topped with aniline black, indigo, basic dyes,
or combined with such direct dyes as produce shades fast to chroming to form a very great range
of shades which have the merit of fastness.

(3) DIRECT DYEING FOLLOWED BY FIXATION WITH DEVELOPERS.

A large number of the dyes prepared from coal tar are called azo colours, such for instance
are the Biebrich and Croceine scarlets and oranges, Naphthol black, Congo red, etc., just to
name a few. The preparation of these is about the simplest operation of colour chemistry, and
consists in taking as the base an amido compound as the chemist calls such. These amido compounds,
of which aniline, toluidine, benzidine, naphthylamine are familiar examples, are characterised
by containing the molecular group NH{2}, which radicle is built up of the two elements nitrogen
and hydrogen. All compounds which contain this group are basic in character and combine with
acids to form well-defined salts. When these amido bodies are treated with sodium nitrite and
hydrochloric acid they undergo a chemical change, the feature of which is that the nitrogen
atoms present in the amido compound and in the nitrite unite together and a new compound is
produced which is called a diazo compound, and the operation is called "diazotisation".

For example when paranitroaniline is subjected to this reaction it undergoes a change indicated
in the chemical equation:--

C{6}H{4}NO{2}NH{2}, + NaNO{2}, + 2HCl = Paranitroaniline, Sodium nitrite, Hydrochloric acid.

C{6}H{4}NO{2}N: NCl + NaCl + 2H{2}0 = Paranitro benzene Sodium chloride, Water, diazo chloride.

The above, put into words, means that when paranitroaniline is dissolved with hydrochloric
acid and treated with nitrite of soda it forms diazonitro benzene chloride, sodium chloride
and water. Now the diazo compounds are rather unstable bodies, but they have a great affinity
for other compounds, such as naphthol, phenylene diamine, phenol, and combine easily with them
when brought into contact with them. The new compounds thus made form the dye-stuffs of commerce.

The azo dyes contain the characteristic group of two nitrogen atoms shown in the formula N:
N. In dealing with the production of colours direct on the fibre this subject will be elaborated
more fully.

Now many of the direct dyes, Diamine blacks, Diamine cutch, Primuline, Diazo brown, Zambesi
blues, browns, etc., contain amido groups, by reason of having been made from such bodies as
phenylene diamine, amido naphthol, toluidine, etc., and it has been found that when dyed on
the fibre they are capable of being diazotised by passing the dyed fibre into a bath of sodium
nitrite acidified with hydrochloric acid, and if then they are placed into a bath containing
such a body as beta-naphthol, phenylene diamine, etc., new compounds or dyes are produced,
which are characterised by being insoluble in water, and therefore as formed on the fibre in
the manner indicated are very fast to washing, soaping and similar agencies.

Often the new or developed dye formed on the fibre differs markedly in colour from the original
dye. Perhaps in no case is this more strongly shown than with Primuline. The original colour
is a greenish yellow, but by using various developers, as they are called, a great variety
of shade can be got, as shown in this table.

Developer.                        Colour produced.

Beta-naphthol                            Bright scarlet. Alpha-naphthol                   
Crimson. Phenylene diamine                        Brown. Phenol                           
Gold yellow. Resorcine                                Orange. Naphthylamine ether         
Blue. Blue developer A N                       Green.

As regards the dyeing operation, it no way differs from that described for simple direct colours.
It should, however, be noted that if good results are required full shades must be dyed. The
cotton must be rinsed in cold water, and be quite cold before it is subjected to the diazotising
operation. Diazotising is a simple operation, yet it must be carried out with care if good
results are desired. It consists essentially in the use of an acidulated bath of sodium nitrite.

To make the bath for diazotising there is taken (for each 100 lb. of goods) sufficient water
to handle them in comfortably, 8 lb. of sodium nitrite and 6 lb. hydrochloric acid. This bath
must be quite cold otherwise it does not work well. The goods are handled in this for from
fifteen to twenty minutes, when they are ready for the next operation. The bath is not exhausted
of nitrite, etc., hence it can be kept standing, and for each succeeding lot of cotton it is
strengthened up by adding one-third of the quantities of nitrite and acid originally used.
Of course the bath cannot be kept for ever, sooner or later it will get dirty, and then it
must be thrown away and a new bath be made up.

The diazo compounds formed on the fibre are not very stable bodies. They decompose on being
exposed for any great length of time to the air, while light has a strong action on most, if
not all of them; hence it follows that the diazotising process should not be carried out in
a room where direct, strong sunlight can enter or fall upon the goods. Then again, after diazotising,
the treated goods should not be allowed to lie about exposed to air and light, but the operation
of developing should be proceeded with at once, otherwise the diazo body will decompose, and
weak and defective colours are liable to be obtained on subsequent development.

For developing, quite a large number of substances are used. Some of these are regular articles
of commerce, others are the special productions of certain firms, who advise their use with
the dyes that they also manufacture. These latter are sent out under such designations as Developer
B, Developer A N, or Fast-blue developer. Those most in use are beta-naphthol for red from
Primuline, and for bluish blacks from Diamine blacks, Diazo blacks, Zambesi blacks, etc.; for
dark blues from Diamine blues, Diazo blues, etc.; for greys from Diamine blues, Neutral grey,
etc. Alpha-naphthol for dark reds from Primuline, greys from Diamine blues, Neutral grey, etc.
Phenylene diamine for blacks from Diamine blacks, Diazo blacks, Zambesi blacks, Triamine blacks,
etc.; for dark browns from Diamine browns, Diazo browns, etc.; for light browns from Cotton
browns, Diamine cutch, Primuline, etc. Naphthylamine ether for blues from Diamine blacks, etc.
Phenol for claret from Diamine cutch, and for gold yellow from Primuline, etc. Resorcine for
orange from Primuline, etc. Soda for browns from Diamine cutch, Diazo browns, Zambesi browns,
for orange from Diamine orange, and yellow from Primuline.

=Beta-naphthol.=--This is by far the most important of the developers. It is a white body,
insoluble in water, but readily soluble in soda lye, and a solution is easily made by taking
10 lb. beta-naphthol and heating it with 10 lb. caustic soda lye of 70° Tw. and 60 gallons
of water. This bath may be used as the developing bath, or it may be diluted with more water.
It is not desirable to use any more caustic soda than is necessary to dissolve the beta-naphthol,
so that the bath is not too alkaline. To produce full shades it usually takes 1 per cent. of
the weight of the cotton of the beta-naphthol, but it is best to use the bath as a continuous
one and for the first lot of cotton use 2 per cent. of naphthol, while for each succeeding
lot only 1 per cent. more naphthol need be added to the same bath.

This bath is alkaline, while the diazotising bath is acid, unless, therefore, the cotton be
well washed when it is taken from the latter bath there is a risk of the alkali of the one
being neutralised by the acidity of the other, and the naphthol being thrown out in an insoluble
form. This, of course, is easily remedied should it occur.

Developer A (Bayer) is a mixture of beta-naphthol and caustic soda in the powder form, so that
a solution is obtained by simply adding water. Rather more (about 1-1/2 per cent.) of this
is required than of beta-naphthol.

=Alpha-naphthol= has similar properties to, and is used in the same way as, beta-naphthol;
it develops much darker and rather duller colours, which are less fast to washing.

=Resorcine=, like naphthol, is insoluble in water, but it can be dissolved by using either
soda ash or caustic soda. The latter is preferable, as the former is liable to give a developing
bath that froths in working, especially if much acid has been left in the cotton from the diazotising
bath. In the developing bath 1 per cent. of resorcine is usually sufficient to use. It develops
an orange with Primuline.

Developer F (Bayer) is a mixture of resorcine and soda ash. It requires 1-1/2 per cent, to
make a developing bath.

=Phenol=, better known as carbolic acid, finds a use as a developer. Generally 1 per cent.
is sufficient to use as a developer. It is often called yellow developer.

=Naphthylamine ether= is used as a developer for blues in conjunction with the Diamine blacks.
It is prepared for use by dissolving in hydrochloric acid, 10 lb. naphthylamine ether powder
heated with 5 lb. hydrochloric acid and 50 gallons water. About 1-1/4 per cent. is required
to form a developing bath. Naphthylamine ether is also sent out in the form of a paste mixed
with acid, and containing about 25 per cent. of the actual developer.

=Fast blue developer A D= (Cassella), is amidodiphenylamine. It is insoluble in water, but
soluble in dilute acid, 10 lb. fast blue developer A D, 5 lb. hydrochloric acid and 35 gallons
of water making the bath. To develop full shades 1 to 1-1/2 per cent, is required.

=Blue developer A N= (Cassella). The base of this is insoluble in water, but dissolves in soda,
and is probably a naphthol-sulpho acid. The product, as met with in the market, is soluble
in water, and 27 lb. dissolved in 20 gallons of water form the bath. To produce full shades
1-1/2 per cent, is usually required.

=Phenylene diamine= is a most important developer. It comes into the market in two forms, as
a powder, very nearly pure, made into a solution by dissolving 10 lb. with 20 gallons of water
and 5 lb. hydrochloric acid, and as a solution prepared ready for use. Developer C (Bayer)
and developer E (Bayer) are preparations of diamine, the former in a powder, the latter in
a solution. Phenylene diamine can be used with the addition to the developing bath of acetic
acid or soda.

Developer B (Bayer) is ethyl beta-naphthylamine, in the form of its hydrochloric acid compound.
The bath is made from 10 lb. of the developer and 50 gallons of water, 1-1/4 per cent. being
used to obtain full shades.

Developer D (Bayer) is dioxy-naphthalene-sulpho acid, and simply requires dissolving in water
to make the bath.

=Toluylene diamine= is a homologue of phenylene diamine and is used in precisely the same way.

Generally the special developers issued by the various colour firms simply require dissolving
in water to form the developing bath.

The cotton, previously being passed through the diazotising bath, is then run into the developing
bath, in which it is kept for from twenty to thirty minutes or until the required shade is
fully developed, after which it is taken out, rinsed and dried. The method of working is the
same for all the developers, and may be carried out in any kind of vessels. As is indicated
above, the developing baths may be kept standing and be freshened up as required; they are
used cold. Sometimes two developers are mixed together, in which case care should be taken
that an alkaline developer naphthol or phenol be not mixed with an acid developer (phenylene
diamine, naphthylamine, etc.), unless the acidity of the latter has been neutralised with soda;
otherwise the developer might be thrown out of the bath in an insoluble and hence useless form.

The advantages of the diazotising and developing process just described may be summed as--easy
and quick working, superior fastness to washing, soaping and milling, increased fastness to
light and softness of the dyed fibre.

Scarlet.--Dye with 3 lb. Primuline and 20 lb. salt, at the boil for one hour, diazotise and
develop with beta-naphthol.

Crimson.--Dye with 3 lb. Primuline and 20 lb. salt, then diazotise and develop with alpha-naphthol.

Red Brown.--Dye with 4 lb. Primuline and 20 lb. salt, then diazotise and develop with phenylene
diamine.

Sage Brown.--Dye with 6 lb. Primuline, 3 lb. Titan ingrain blue and 20 lb. salt, then diazotise
and develop with resorcine.

Dark Crimson.--Dye with 5-3/4 lb.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 8 lb.

Blue Black.--Dye with 4 lb. Zambesi blue B X, 2 lb. Zambesi black D, 2 lb. soda and 20 lb.
salt, then diazotise and develop with 3/4 lb. toluylene diamine and 1/2 lb. beta-naphthol.

Red.--Dye with 4-1/2 lb. Primuline, 1/2 lb. Primuline, 1 lb. Diamine azo blue R R, and 20 lb.
salt, then diazotise and develop with beta-napthol.

Deep Chestnut Brown.--Dye with 5 lb.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 4 lb. Diamine cutch, 1 lb.

Blue.--Dye with 2 lb. A dark blue is got by using 8 lb. of Diaminogene blue B B in the same
way. Diaminogene blue B B, 1-1/10 lb. For subsequent lots in the same bath one-third of these
additions is sufficient. After diazotising rinse the goods in a bath weakly acidulated with
hydrochloric or sulphuric acid, and then immediately develop with beta-naphthol. Dye exactly
as in the preceding recipe. Wash and rinse very thoroughly after lifting, then diazotise in
a bath of about 250 gallons of cold water, to which add separately 2-1/2 lb. sodium nitrite
dissolved in five times its bulk of water and 8 lb. hydrochloric acid diluted. Enter the damp
cotton and treat it for about half an hour. Lift, pass through a weak acid bath, rinse, and
develop immediately in a bath of about 250 gallons of cold water, containing 1 lb. developer
T, 1 lb. soda, previously dissolved together in hot water. Enter the damp goods, work well
for half an hour, then lift, wash and dry.

Blue Black.--Dye with 4 lb.

Dark Navy.--Dye with 3 lb.

Light Chestnut Brown.--Dye with 2 lb.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 5 lb.

Blue Black.--Dye with 4 lb.

Black.--Dye with 4-1/2 lb.

Light Blue.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb.

Maroon.--Dye with 6 lb. Primuline and 20 lb. salt, diazotise and develop with blue developer A N.

Olive Brown.--Dye with 5-1/2 lb.

Walnut Brown.--Dye with 3 lb. Diamine cutch, 3 lb. Diamine black B H, 8 lb. soda and 20 lb.
Glauber's salt, then diazotised and develop with phenylene diamine.

The Diamine blacks are a range of very useful dye-stuffs, and by their means alone and in conjunction
with the various developers as seen in the examples given above a range of useful shades of
blue, navy blue, and blacks of every tone can be obtained. It may also be added that many of
the direct dyes, although not diazotisable, are not altered by the process and so may be used
along with diazotisable dyes for the purpose of shading them, and in that way a great range
of shades can be produced, particularly by combining Primuline with other dyes.

(4) DIRECT DYEING FOLLOWED BY FIXATION WITH COUPLERS.

A further development in the application of the direct dyes has of late years been made. This
is a two-bath method. The cotton is dyed with certain of the direct dyes: Primuline, Diamine
jet blacks, Diazo blacks, Toluylene orange and brown, Diazo brown, Diamine nitrazol dyes, Benzo
nitrol dyes, etc., in the usual way. Then a bath is prepared by diazotising paranitroaniline,
benzidine, metanitraniline, dianisidine, etc., or by using the ready diazotised preparations
which are now on the market, Nitrazol C, Azophor red P N, Azophor blue P N, etc., and immersing
the dyed cotton in this bath. Combination takes place between the dye on the fibre and the
diazo compound in this bath, and a new product is produced direct on the fibre, which being
insoluble is very resistant to washing and soaping. These "coupled" shades, as they will probably
come to be called, differ from those produced on the fibre by the original dye-stuff, thus
the Diamine jet blacks and some of the Diazo blacks give, with paranitroaniline, browns of
various shades.

In this section also may be considered the method of dyeing cotton by using the direct colours
in the ordinary way, and then "topping," as it is called, with a basic dye in a fresh bath.

Practically in the "coupling process" of dyeing only diazotised paranitroaniline is used as
the coupler, although other amido bases of a similar nature are available.

When paranitroaniline is used as the source for the coupling bath it is well to prepare a stock
bath of diazotised paranitroaniline, which may be done in the following manner:--

=Preparation of diazotised paranitroaniline.=--Take 1 lb. paranitroaniline, mix with 1 gallon
boiling water and 1 quart hydrochloric acid, stir well, when the paranitroaniline will dissolve
the solution may if necessary be assisted by a little heat. Now add 1-1/2 gallons of cold water,
and set aside to cool, when the hydrochloride of paranitroaniline will separate out in the
form of fine crystals; when the mixture is quite cold (it cannot be too cold) there is added
1/2 lb. sodium nitrite dissolved in 1/2 gallon cold water, stir well for fifteen to twenty
minutes, by the end of which time the paranitroaniline will have become fully diazotised, cold
water is added to bring up the volume of the mixture to 10 gallons. This stock bath well prepared
and kept in a cool, dark place will keep good for three to four weeks. This bath contains 1
lb. of paranitroaniline in 10 gallons, and it is a good rule to allow 1/2 lb., or 5 gallons
of this stock bath to each pound of dye-stuff used in dyeing the ground colour to be developed up.

To prepare the coupling bath there is taken 5 gallons of the stock bath, 1 lb. sodium acetate
with sufficient water for each 1 lb. of dye that has been used.

This bath is used cold, and the cotton is worked in it for half an hour, then it is taken out,
washed well and dried.

Nitrazol C is a ready prepared diazotised paranitroaniline in a powder form which keeps well
if stored in a dry place. The method of using is to take 8 lb. Nitrazol C, stir into a paste
with water and then add this paste to the coupling bath, together with 2 lb. soda and 3/4 lb.
acetate of soda. This bath is used cold and the dyed cotton is immersed in it for half an hour,
then taken out, well washed and dried.

The quantity of Nitrazol C given will suffice for all shades dyed with from 2 to 4 per cent,
of dye-stuff, but when paler shades are dyed, using less than say 1/2 per cent. of dye-stuff,
about 4 lb. Nitrazol C, with the soda and acetate of soda in proportionate quantities, may be used.

Azophor red P N is also a preparation of diazotised paranitroaniline in the form of a dry powder
which keeps well.

To prepare the coupling bath there is taken 2 lb. of Azophor red P N, which is dissolved in
water and added to the bath along with 1 lb. acetate of soda. The dyed goods are worked in
the cold bath for half an hour, then taken out, well washed and dried.

The quantities given are sufficient for shades dyed with 2 to 4 per cent. of dye-stuff; for
weaker shades half the quantities may be taken.

Benzo-nitrol developer is sold in the form of a yellow paste. To use it take 5 lb., stir into
a smooth paste with water, then add to the coupling bath. There is then added 3 pints of hydrochloric
acid, with some stirring. Allow to stand for half an hour, add 1-1/2 lb. acetate of soda and
6-1/2 oz. soda, when the bath is ready for use. The cotton is entered and worked for half an
hour, then lifted out, washed and dried.

It may be mentioned that solutions of the three couplers just named may be kept for some time
without decomposition, but as soon as soda and acetate of soda are added they begin to decompose
and then cannot be kept more than a few hours in a good condition. It is a good plan therefore
not to add the acetate of soda until the bath is to be used.

An excess of coupler in the bath does no harm, but a deficiency may lead to poor and weak shades
being developed.

The following recipes show the dyes which may be applied by this method and give some idea
of the colours that can be got. Only the dye-stuffs are given. Any of the above couplers can
be used with them as may be most convenient.

Black.--Dye with 5 lb. Benzo-nitrol black B, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Dark Blue.--Dye with 2 lb. Dianil dark blue R, 1 lb. Dianil dark blue 3 R, 2 lb. soda and 25
lb. salt.

Gold Brown.--Dye with 1 lb. Primuline, 8 oz. Dianil brown R and 20 lb. salt.

Chestnut.--Dye with 3 lb. Primuline, 3/4 lb.

Dark Brown.--Dye with 1 lb. Primuline, 1-1/2 lb.

Walnut Brown.--Dye with 1 lb. Dianil brown 3 G O, 8 oz.

Light Green.--Dye with 3 lb. Primuline, 8 oz.

Orange Yellow.--Dye with 3-1/4 lb. Primuline, 1 lb. Oxydianil yellow, and 25 lb. salt.

Olive.--Dye with 3-1/2 lb. Primuline, 8 oz. Dianil brown 3 G O, 8 oz.

Bright Yellow.--Dye with 2 lb. Primuline, and 20 lb. salt.

Bright Walnut.--Dye with 1/2 lb. Diamine nitrazol brown B, 1 lb. Oxydiamine orange R, 1 lb.
soda, and 20 lb. Glauber's salt. Primuline, and 20 lb. salt.

Green.--Dye with 2 lb. Primuline, 1 lb. Diamine nitrazol black B, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt.

Pale Chestnut.--Dye with 1 lb. Primuline, 1/2 lb. Oxydiamine orange R and 20 lb. salt.

Moss Brown,--Dye with 2 lb. Primuline, 1 lb. diamine jet black O O and 20 lb. salt.

Chocolate.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Diamine brown V, 2 lb.

Olive Brown.--Dye with 2 lb.

Russian Green.--Dye with 2 lb. Diaminogene extra, 2 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Bronze Green.--Dye with 2 lb. Diamine grey G, 2 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt. Primuline,
2 lb. Diamine bronze G, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt.

Sage Brown.--Dye with 1 lb. Primuline, 2 lb. Diamine jet black O O, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt.

Black Brown.--Dye with 1 lb.

Dark Walnut.--Dye with 1 lb. Diamine brown V, 2 lb.

Pale Sage.--Dye with 1 lb. Diamine brown V, 2 lb. Primuline, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. salt.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 3 lb.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 3/4 lb.

Dark Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 2 lb.

Brown.--Prepare the dye-bath with 4 lb. 11 oz. Diamine jet black O O, 2 lb. Cotton brown N,
1 lb. 5 oz. Diamine bronze G, 6-1/2 oz. Cotton brown N, 9-3/4 oz. Diamine fast yellow A, 20
lb. Glauber's salt, 2 lb. soda.

Black.--Prepare the dye-bath with 5 lb.

Solidogen A is a new coupler that has latterly been applied. It is a syrupy liquid, and the
coupling bath is made by taking from 4 lb. to 6 lb. of the Solidogen A, and 1 lb. to 2 lb.
of hydrochloric acid, in place of which 3 lb. to 5 lb. alum may be used. This bath is used
at the boil, the goods being treated for half an hour, then well rinsed and dried. It increases
the fastness of the colours to washing and soaping.

The following recipes show its application:--

Bright Bed.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil red 4 B, 2 lb. soap, 3 lb. soda and 15 lb. Glauber's salt,
then fix with Solidogen A.

Scarlet.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil scarlet G, 2 lb. soda and 25 lb. salt; fix with Solidogen A.

Plum.--Dye with 3 lb. Dianil claret B, 5 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt, then fix with
Solidogen A.

=Topping with Basic Dyes.=--The shades dyed with the direct dyes may be materially brightened
and new shades produced by topping with any of the basic dyes, which are applied in a fresh
warm bath. A great variety of effects may be thus got of which the following recipes give a
few examples:--

Green.--Dye with 1 lb. Titan yellow G and 20 lb. salt; top with 1/2 lb. Brilliant green.

Blue.--Dye with 1-3/4 lb. Diamine azo blue R, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt, then top
with 2 oz. New Methylene blue N.

Bright Blue.--Dye with 3/4 lb. Brilliant green.

Bose Lilac.--Dye with 1-1/2 oz. Tannin heliotrope. Turquoise blue B B.

Violet.--Dye with 5 oz. Methyl violet 2 B.

Plum.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Oxydiamine violet B, 5 oz. Diamine red 10 B, 2 lb. soda and 10 lb.
Glauber's salt, then top with 1-1/2 oz. Methyl violet R.

Bright Green.--Dye with 1-1/4 lb. Diamine green G, 1-1/4 lb. Brilliant green.

Blue.--Dye with 2 lb. Benzo azurine G, 3 oz. Brilliant azurine B, 1 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's
salt, topping with 6 oz. Turquoise blue G and 3 oz. New Victoria blue B.

Dark Lilac.--Dye with 3-3/4 lb. Methyl violet R, and 1/2 lb. Methyl violet 3 R.

Scarlet.--Dye with 3 lb. Brilliant Congo R, 3 lb. soda and 20 lb. Glauber's salt, then top
with 8 oz. Safranine.

Bright Green.--Dye with 3 lb. Chrysamine G, 2 lb. soap and 10 lb. phosphate of soda, topping
with 3/4 lb. Malachite green.

Bright Violet.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Methyl violet B.

Dark Green.--Dye with 2 lb. Columbia green, 3 lb. soda and 10 lb. Glauber's salt, topping with
10 oz. Malachite green.

Claret.--Prepare a dye-bath with 3/4 oz. Diamine black R O, 2-1/2 lb. Benzo purpurine 6 B,
10 lb. Glauber's salt. Dye at the boil for one hour, then enter in a fresh cold bath of 1/2
lb. Safranine G. Work for twenty minutes, lift, wash and dry.

Seal Brown.--Make up a dye-bath with 2 lb. Benzo azurine G, 20 lb. Glauber's salt. Enter yarn
at 180° F., dye at the boil for one hour, lift, wring, and enter into a fresh bath of 1-1/2
lb. Bismarck brown. Work for one hour at about 180° F., lift, rinse well and dry.

(6) DYEING ON TANNIC MORDANT.

The oldest group of coal-tar dyes are the basic dyes, of which Magenta, Brilliant green, Chrysoidine,
Bismarck brown, Auramine are typical representatives. For a long time these dyes were only
used for dyeing wool and silk; for cotton, linen, and some other vegetable fibres they have
little or no affinity, and hence cannot dye them direct. However, it was found out that if
the cotton be prepared or mordanted (as it is called) with tannic acid or with any substance
containing that compound they could be used for dyeing cotton.

The mordant used, tannic acid, has the property of combining with the dyes of this group to
form insoluble coloured tannates. Now tannic acid has a certain amount of affinity for cotton,
if the latter be immersed in solution of tannic acid or any material containing it some of
the latter is taken up and more or less fixed by the cotton fibre. Tannic acid is a vegetable
product found in a large number of plants, and plant products, such as sumac, myrabolams, divi-divi,
galls, oak bark, gambier, cutch, algarobilla, valonia, etc., which are commonly known as tannins,
or tannin matters, on account of their use in the conversion of animal skins or hides into
leather, which is done in the tanning industry.

By itself the tannin-colour lake, which may be formed on the cotton fibre by immersion first
in a bath of tannin and then in a dye-bath, is not fast to washing and soaping, but by taking
advantage of the fact with such metals as tin, iron, antimony, etc., it combines to form insoluble
tannates; the tannic acid can be fixed on the cotton by immersion in a bath containing such
fixing salts as tartar emetic, tin crystals, copperas, antimony fluoride, and antimony oxalate.
The dyeing of cotton with the basic colours therefore resolves itself into three operations:--

(1) Tanning with tannic acid or some tanning matters. (2) Fixation with tartar emetic or other
fixing agent. (3) Dyeing with the required colour or mixture of colours.

(1) =The Tanning Operation.=--The practice of tanning or mordanting cotton with tannin is variously
carried on by dyers. Some steep the cotton in the tannin bath over night, others immerse it
from two to three hours in a lukewarm bath, while some enter it in a boiling bath, which is
then allowed to cool down and the cotton is lifted out. The last is perhaps the quickest method,
and experiments have shown that it is as good as any other method, if the quantity of tannic
acid taken up be regarded as the criterion of success.

In the natural products which have just been enumerated, the tannic acid is accompanied by
some colouring matter, which is also absorbed by the cotton; in some (sumac and galls) this
colour is present in but small quantities; in others (divi-divi, myrabolams, algarobilla),
there is a large quantity; therefore cotton treated with these comes out more or less coloured.
Now it is obvious that such forms of tannin cannot be used when light tints are to be dyed,
for such the acid itself must be used, for medium shades sumac or galls may be used; while
when dark shades--browns, maroons, dark greens, navy blues, etc., are to be dyed, then such
tannin matters as divi-divi or myrabolams may be conveniently and economically adopted. The
quantity used varies according to circumstances; the character of the shades that are to be
dyed, the dye-stuff used, the quality and character of the tannin matter used. For pale shades
about 1 per cent. of tannic acid may be used, deep shades require from 3 to 4 per cent. Of
tannin matters from 5 per cent. may be used for pale shades, from 20 to 25 per cent. for deep
shades. The tannin baths are not exhausted, and may be kept standing, adding for each succeeding
lot of cotton from 1/2 to 3/4 of the above quantities of tannin matters. Of course sooner or
later the baths become unusable from various causes, and then they may be thrown away; but
old tannin baths often work better than the new ones.

(2) =The Fixing Bath.=--Following on the tannin bath comes the fixing bath to fix the tannin
on the cotton in the form of insoluble metallic tannates. A variety of metallic salts may be
used for this purpose, those of antimony, tin, iron, lead, etc., the substances most commonly
used being tartar emetic, antimony fluoride, oxalate of antimony, tin crystals and copperas.

Beyond forming the insoluble tannate of antimony or tin, as the case may be, the salts of antimony
and tin have no further effect on the tanned cotton, and they may be used to fix the tannin
for all tints or shades, from very pale to very deep. Of all these salts tartar emetic has
been found to be the best, probably because it is the least acid in its reactions, and therefore
there is no tendency to remove any tannin from the fibre, as is the case with the other salts.
Tin salt is little used for this purpose, because of its acidity, which prevents it from fixing
the tannin as completely as is the case with tartar emetic.

With copperas or iron liquor the question comes up not only of the mere fixation of the tannin,
but also the fact that iron forms with tannin grey to black compounds, hence cotton which has
been tanned and then immersed in a bath of copperas becomes coloured grey to black, according
to the quantity of the tannin matter used. The property is useful when dark shades of maroons,
clarets, greens, browns, blues, etc., are to be dyed, and is frequently employed.

(3) =Dyeing.=--After the tannin and fixing operations comes the dyeing. This is not by any
means a difficult operation. It is best carried out by preparing a cold bath, entering the
prepared or mordanted cotton in this and heating slowly up. It is not necessary to raise to
the boil nor to maintain the dye-bath at that heat, a temperature of 180° F. being quite sufficient
in dyeing with the basic colours, and the operation should last only until the colouring matter
is extracted from the dye-bath. Working in this way, level uniform shades can be got.

One source of trouble in the dyeing of basic dyes, more especially with magentas, violets and
greens, lies in their slight solubility and great strength. In preparing solutions of such
dyes it is best to dissolve the dye-stuff by pouring boiling water over it, and stirring well
until all appears to be dissolved.

This solution should be strained through a fine cloth, as any undissolved specks will be sure
to fix themselves on the cloth and lead to dark spots and stains, as, owing to the weak solubility
of the dye, and this being also fixed as insoluble tannate by the tannic acid on the fibre,
there is no tendency for the dye to diffuse itself over the cloth, as occasionally happens
in other methods of dyeing. No advantage is gained by adding to the dye-bath such substances
as common salt or Glauber's salt.

Some few of the dyes, e.g., Soluble blue, Victoria blue, which will dye on a tannic mordant,
are sulphonated compounds of the colour base. These can be dyed in medium or light shades on
to unmordanted cotton from a bath containing alum, and in the ordinary method of dyeing the
addition of alum is beneficial, as tending to result in the production of deep shades. These
are somewhat faster to washing and soaping, which is owing to the dye-stuff combining with
the alumina in the alum to form an insoluble colour lake of the sulphuric acid groups it contains.

Many recipes can be given for the dyeing of basic dyes on cotton; for the range of tints and
shades of all colours that can be produced by their means is truly great. Typical recipes will
be given showing what basic dyes are available and how they can be combined together. The dyer,
however, who knows how to produce shades by combining one dye-stuff with another is able to
get many more shades than space will permit to be given here.

Sky Blue.--Mordant with 1 lb. tannic acid and 1/2 lb. tartar emetic, then dye with 2-1/2 oz.
Victoria blue B, and 1/2 oz. Turquoise blue G.

Bright Blue.--Mordant with 2 lb. tannic acid and 1-1/2 lb. tartar emetic, then dye with 1-1/2
lb. New Victoria blue B, and 3/4 lb. Turquoise blue G.

Pale Green.--Mordant with 1-1/2 lb. tannic acid and 1/4 lb. tartar emetic, then dye with 1/4
oz. Brilliant green and 1/2 oz. Auramine I I.

Bright Green.--Mordant with 1 lb. tannic acid and 1 lb. tartar emetic, then dye with 6 oz.
Brilliant green and 8 oz. Turquoise blue G.

Crimson.--Mordant with 3 lb. tannic acid and 2 lb. tartar emetic, then dye with 1-1/4 lb. Brilliant
rhoduline red B and 5 oz. Rhoduline violet and 3 oz. Rhoduline violet.

Yellow.--Mordant with 3 lb. tannic acid and 2-1/2 lb. tartar emetic; dye with 2 lb. Auramine I I.

Orange.--Mordant with 3 lb. tannic acid and 2-1/4 lb. tartar emetic; dye with 2 lb. Chrysoidine.
Brilliant green. Methyl violet 4 R.

The same method may be followed with all the brands of Methyl, Paris and Hoffmann violets,
and so a range of shades from a purple to a pure violet can be dyed. The 4 R to R brands of
these violets dye reddish shades, the redness decreasing according to the mark, the B to 6
B brands dye bluish shades, the blueness increasing till the 6 B brand dyes a very blue shade
of violet. Turquoise blue G and 1/4 oz. New Victoria blue B. With these two blues a very great
variety of tints and shades of blue can be dyed.

Sea Green.--Mordant with 1 lb. tannic acid and 3/4 lb. tartar emetic, and dye with 2 oz. Malachite
green. Malachite green and 3/4 oz. Auramine I I.

By combination of Brilliant green or Malachite green (which are the principal basic greens)
with Auramine in various proportions a great range of greens of all tints and shades, from
pale to deep and from very yellow to very green tints, can be dyed. Rhodamine 6 G and 1/4 lb.
Victoria blue B and 2 oz. Malachite green. Methylene blue 2 B and 1/2 lb. Malachite green.
Safranine prima and 1/2 lb. Magenta and 1/2 lb. Auramine. Thioflavine T and 3/4 lb. Bismarck
brown. Auramine and 1/4 lb. Safranine. New Methylene blue R and 3/4 lb. Naphtindone B B.

Olive Green.--Mordant with 5 lb. sumac extract and 2 lb. copperas, and dye with 1 lb. Auramine.
Malachite green. Thioflavine T and 1/2 lb. Irisamine G. With these two dye-stuffs it is possible
to produce a variety of useful shades from a pure greenish yellow, with Thioflavine T alone,
to a bright bluish pink, with the Irisamine alone, through orange, scarlet, etc., with combinations
of the two dye-stuffs.

Dark Grey.--Mordant with 5 lb. sumac extract and 3 lb. copperas, then dye with 1 lb. New Methylene
grey G.

Blue Black.--Mordant with 8 lb. sumac extract and 4 lb. copperas, or better with iron liquor,
then dye with 2 lb. Auramine G, 2 oz. Brilliant green, then lift, wash and dry. Tannin orange
R and 1 lb. Tannin orange R and 2 lb. Safranine S.

The Janus colours are a series of dyes of a basic nature which can be applied somewhat differently
to the ordinary basic dyes, although the ordinary method can be followed. With these Janus
dyes a two-bath process is followed. A dye-bath is prepared containing the dye-stuff, sulphuric
acid and common salt, and this is used at the boil from half to three-quarters of an hour,
and the goods are allowed to remain in another three-quarters of an hour while the bath cools
down. Next the dyed goods are run in a fixing bath of sulphuric acid, tannic acid and tartar
emetic, this is used at the boil from half to one hour, after which the dyed goods are taken
out and washed. If necessary the goods may be now topped with basic colours in order to produce
any desired shade. The following recipes will show how the Janus dyes may be used:--

Blue.--Dye with 9 oz. sulphuric acid, 8 oz. Janus blue G, and 5 lb. common salt; fix with 3/4
lb. sulphuric acid, 8 oz. tannic acid and 4 oz. tartar emetic.

Turquoise Blue.--Dye with 9 oz. sulphuric acid, 1 lb. Janus green B and 10 lb. salt, fixing
with 3/4 lb. sulphuric acid, 1 lb. tannin and 1/2 lb. tartar emetic.

Dark Blue.--Dye with 9 oz. sulphuric acid, 2-1/2 lb.

Buff.--Dye with 9 oz. sulphuric acid, 2 oz. Janus yellow R and 3 lb. salt; fix with 3/4 lb.
sulphuric acid, 3 oz. tannic acid and 3 lb. tartar emetic.

Dark Violet.--Dye with 9 oz. sulphuric acid, 2 lb.

Chocolate Brown.--Dye with 9 oz. sulphuric acid, 3-1/2 lb.

(6) DYEING ON METALLIC MORDANTS.

There are a number of dye-stuffs or colouring matters like alizarine, logwood, fustic, barwood,
cutch, resorcine green, etc., which have no affinity for the cotton fibre, and of themselves
will not dye it. They have the property of combining with metallic oxides such as those of
iron, chromium, aluminium, tin, lead, calcium, etc., to form coloured bodies which are more
or less insoluble in water. These coloured bodies are called "colour lakes," and the metallic
compounds used in connection with their production "mordants," hence often the dye-stuffs applied
by this method are termed "mordant dyes". In the case of the natural dye-stuffs--logwood, fustic,
Persian berries, Brazil wood, camwood, cochineal, quercitron, cutch, etc.--which belong to
this group of "mordant dyes," the whole of the material does not enter into the operation,
but only a certain constituent contained therein, which is commonly soluble in boiling water,
and extracted out by boiling. This constituent is called the "colouring principle" of the dye-stuff
or wood, and naturally varies with each. It is not intended here to deal in detail with these
colouring principles. The methods of applying and the colours which can be got from these dyes
varies very much. Roughly, the modes of application fall under three heads: (1) the particular
metallic mordant is first fixed on the fibre by any suitable method, and then the fibre is
dyed; (2) the dye-stuff is first applied to the fibre, and then the colour is fixed and developed
by treatment with the mordant; and (3) the dye-stuff and the mordant are applied at the same
time. This last method is not much used. In the following sections many examples of these methods
will be given.

The dyes fixed with metallic mordant vary in their composition and properties. There is first
the group of eosine dyes, which are acid derivatives of a colour-base, and, in virtue of being
so, will combine with the metallic oxides. The colour of these colour lakes is quite independent
of what oxide is used, depending only on that of the particular eosine dye employed. Then there
are some members of the azo dyes, particularly the croceine scarlets, which can also be dyed
on the cotton by the aid of tin, lead or alum mordants. Here, again, the mordant has no influence
on the colour, but only fixes it on the cotton.

The most important class of dye-stuffs which are dyed on to cotton with a metallic mordant
is that to which the term "mordant dyes" is now given. This includes such dyes as logwood,
fustic, madder, alizarine, and all the dyes derived from anthracene. Many of these are not
really dyes, that is, they will not of themselves produce or develop a colour on to any fibre
when used alone; it is only when they combine with the mordant oxide which is used, and then
the colour varies with the mordant. Thus, for instance, logwood with iron produces a bluish
black; with chrome, a blue; with alumina, a reddish blue. Alizarine with iron produces a dark
violet; with alumina, a scarlet; with chrome, a red; with tin, a bright scarlet. Fustic gives
with tin and alumina, bright yellows; with chrome, a dark yellow; with iron, an olive, and
so on with other members of this group, of which more will be said later on.

Dyeing with Eosines.

At one time a fairly large quantity of cotton was dyed with the eosines, owing to the brightness
of the shades given by them; but the introduction of such direct dyes as the Erikas, Ceranines,
etc., has thrown the eosines out of use.

The method adopted for the production of eosine pinks and scarlets on cotton involves three
operations: (1) impregnating the cloth with sodium stannate; (2) fixing oxide of tin by a bath
of weak sulphuric acid; and (3) dyeing with the eosine.

=(1) Preparing with Sodium Stannate.=--A bath of 8° Tw. is prepared, and the cotton is allowed
to steep in this bath until it becomes thoroughly impregnated, after which it is taken out
and wrung.

=(2) Fixing the Tin Oxide.=--A bath of sulphuric acid of 2° to 4° Tw. is prepared, and the
cotton is sent through it, after which it is washed well with water, when it is ready for dyeing.

Stannate of soda is easily decomposed by acids; even the carbonic acid present in the air will
bring about this change. The tin contained in the stannate is deposited on the cotton in the
form of stannic oxide, or, more strictly, stannic acid. As this is somewhat soluble in acids,
it is important that the sulphuric acid bath be not too strong, or there will be a tendency
for the tin oxide to be dissolved off the cotton, and then but weak shades will be obtained
in the final operation of dyeing. Further, owing to the decomposition of the stannate by exposure
to the air, it is important that the substance should be used while fresh, and that only fresh
baths should be used.

=(3) Dyeing with Eosine Colours.=--After the treatment with stannate of soda and sulphuric
acid the prepared cotton is ready for dyeing. This process is carried out by preparing a cold
bath with the required dye-stuff, entering the cotton therein, and then slowly raising to about
180° F., and maintaining at that heat until the desired shade is obtained. It is not needful
to raise to the boil and work at that heat. No better results are obtained, while there is
even a tendency for colours to be produced that rub badly, which is due to the too rapid formation
of the colour lake; and it is worthy of note that when a colour lake is rapidly formed on the
fibre in dyeing it is apt to be but loosely fixed, and the colour is then loose to both washing
and rubbing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dyeing with Acid and Azo Dyes.

In dyeing with this class of colours stannate of soda, acetate of lead or alum may be used
as mordants. The stannate of soda is employed in the same manner as when the eosines are used,
and, therefore, does not require to be further dealt with.

Acetate of lead is used in a similar way. The cotton is first steeped in a bath of acetate
of lead of about 10° Tw. strong, used cold, and from half an hour to an hour is allowed for
the cotton to be thoroughly impregnated with the lead solution, it is then wrung and passed
a second time into a bath of soda, when lead oxide or lead carbonate is deposited on the cotton.
After this treatment the cotton is ready for dyeing with any kind of acid, azo and even eosine
dyes, and this is done in the same manner as is used in dyeing the eosines on a stannate mordant.
The shades obtained on a lead mordant cannot be considered as fast; they bleed on washing and
rub off badly.

When alum is used as the mordant it may be employed in the same way as acetate of lead, but
as a rule it is added to the dye-bath direct, and the dyeing is done at the boil. This latter
method gives equally good results, and is more simple.

The eosines and erythrosines, water blues, soluble blues, croceine scarlets, cloth scarlets,
and a few other dyes of the azo and acid series are used according to this method. The results
are by no means first class, deep shades cannot be obtained, and they are not fast to washing,
soaping and rubbing.

The methods of employing the much more important group of colouring matters known as the mordant
dyes, which comprise such well-known products as logwood, fustic and alizarine, require more
attention. With these, alumina, iron, and chromium mordants are used as chief mordants, either
alone or in combination with one another, and with other bodies. The principal point is to
obtain a good deposit of the mordant on the cotton fibre, and this is by no means easy.

There are several methods by the use of which a deposit is formed of the mordant, either in
the form of metallic oxide (or, perhaps, hydroxide) or of a basic salt. In some cases the cotton
is passed through alternate baths containing, on one hand, the mordanting salt, e.g., alum,
copperas, etc., and, on the other, a fixing agent, such as soda or phosphate of soda. Or a
mordanting salt may be used, containing some volatile acid that on being subjected to a subsequent
steaming is decomposed. Both these methods will be briefly discussed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Methods of Mordanting.

The cotton is first steeped in a bath containing Turkey-red oil, and is then dried. By this
means there is formed on the fibre a deposit of fatty acid, which is of great value in the
subsequent dyeing operations to produce bright and fast shades. After the oiling comes a bath
of alum or alumina sulphate, either used as bought, or made basic by the addition of soda.
The result is to bring about on the fibre a combination of the fatty acid with the alumina.
Following on the alum bath comes a bath containing soda or phosphate of soda, which brings
about a better fixation of the alumina.

These operations may be repeated several times, especially when a full shade having a good
degree of fastness is desired, as, for instance, Turkey-reds from Alizarine. This method of
mordanting is subject to considerable variations as regards the order in which the various
operations are carried out, the strength of the baths, and their composition. A great deal
depends upon the ultimate result desired to be obtained, and the price to be paid for the work.

Iron is much easier to fix on cotton than is either alumina or chrome. It is usually sufficient
to pass the cotton through a bath of either copperas or iron liquor, hang up to dry or age,
and then pass into a bath of lime, soda or even phosphate of soda. The other mordants require
two passages to ensure proper deposition of the mordant on the fibre.

Following on the mordanting operations comes the dyeing, which is carried out in the following
manner. The bath is made cold with the required amount of dye-stuff and not too small a quantity
of water, the cotton is immersed and worked for a short time to ensure impregnation, then the
temperature is slowly raised to the boil. This operation should be carefully carried out, inasmuch
as time is an important element in the dyeing with mordant colours; the colouring principle
contained in the dye-stuff must enter into a chemical combination with the mordant that has
been fixed on the fibre. Heat greatly assists this being brought about, but if the operation
is carried on too quickly, then there is a tendency for uneven shades to be formed. This can
only be remedied by keeping the temperature low until the dye-stuff has been fairly well united
with the mordant, and then maintaining the heat at the boil to ensure complete formation of
the colouring lake on the fibre, and therefore the production of fast colours.

It has been noticed in the dyeing of alizarines on both cotton and wool that when, owing to
a variety of circumstances, local overheating of the bath happens to take place dark strains
or streaks are sure to be formed. To avoid these care should be taken that no such local heating
can occur.

It only remains to add that it is possible to dye a great range of shades by this method, reds
with alizarine and alumina; blacks with logwood and iron; greens from logwood, fustic, or Persian
berries, with chrome and iron; blues from alizarine blues; greens from Coeruleine or Dinitrosoresorcine,
etc.

Another method of mordanting cotton for the mordant group of dye-stuffs is that in which the
cotton is impregnated with a salt of the mordant oxide derived from a volatile acid such as
acetic acid, and then subjected to heat or steaming. This method is largely taken advantage
of by calico printers for grounds, and dyers might make use of it to a much larger extent than
they do.

There are used in this process the acetates of iron, chromium and aluminium, and bisulphites
of the same metals and a few other compounds. Baths of these are prepared, and the cotton is
impregnated by steeping in the usual way; then it is gently wrung out and aged, that is, hung
up in a warm room overnight. During this time the mordant penetrates more thoroughly into the
substance of the fabric, while the acid, being more or less volatile, passes off--probably
not entirely, but at any rate some of the metal is left in the condition of oxide and the bulk
of it as a basic salt. Instead of ageing the cotton may be subjected to a process of steaming
with the same results. After this the cotton is ready for dyeing, which is done by the method
described in the last section.

There is still another method to be noticed here, that is, one in which a bath is prepared
containing both the mordant and the dye-stuff. In this case the character of the mordant must
be such that, under the conditions that prevail, it will not form a colour lake with the dye-stuff.
Such substances are the bisulphites, if used with the bisulphite compounds of the dye-stuffs;
the acetates, if mixed with some acetic acid, may also be used. The process consists in preparing
the dye-bath containing both the mordant and the dye-stuff, entering the cotton, steeping for
some time, then wringing and steaming. During the latter operation the acid combined with the
mordant, being volatile, passes away, and the colouring matter and mordant enter into combination
to form the colour lake, which is firmly fixed upon the fibre. Very good results may be obtained
by this method.

Lastly, in connection with the mordant colours, attention may be directed to the process of
using some of them, which consists in making a solution of the dye-stuff in ammonia, impregnating
the cotton with this alkaline solution, and subjecting it to a steaming operation, during which
the alkali, being volatile, passes away, leaving the colouring matter behind in an insoluble
form. The cotton is next passed into a weak bath of the mordant (preferably the acetates of
iron, etc.)., this being used first cold and then gradually heated up. The dye on the fibre
and the mordant combine to form the desired colour, which is fixed on the fibre.

The chrome mordants are those which are most commonly applied by the methods here sketched
out, and with the large and increasing number of mordant dyes available, the processes should
be worth attention from the cotton dyer.

The following recipes give fuller details than the outline sketches of the methods given above
for the use of the various dyes produced with the mordant dyes and metallic mordants. In some
cases as will be seen other dyes may be added to produce special shades:--

Dark Olive.--Prepare a bath from 8 lb. cutch, 4 lb. logwood extract, 7 lb. fustic extract,
2 lb. copper sulphate. Work in this for one to one and a half hours at the boil. This bath
may be kept standing, adding new ingredients from time to time, and works best when it gets
old. Then pass into a cold bath of 3 lb. copperas for one hour, then wash and enter into a
new bath of 10 lb. salt, 6 oz. Titan blue 3 B, 6 oz. Titan brown R, 6 oz. Titan yellow Y, work
for one hour at the boil, then lift, wash and dry.

Brown.--Prepare a bath with 20 lb. cutch, 2 lb. copper sulphate, 4 lb. quercitron extract.
Work at 150° to 160° F. in this for a few minutes, then allow to lie for four to five hours,
wash well and dry.

Olive.--Work for twenty minutes at 80° F. in a bath of 10 lb. fustic extract, 5 lb. quercitron
extract, 2 lb. logwood extract; heat to boil, work for half an hour, then enter in a cold bath
of 2 lb. sodium bichromate and 5 lb. copper sulphate; work for twenty minutes, then heat to
boil; work for twenty minutes more, wash and dry.

Pale Brown.--Treat in a hot bath of 25 lb. cutch, 1-3/4 lb. bluestone; work for half an hour
in this bath, then lift, wring, and work in a bath of 1-3/4 lb. bichromate of potash for twenty
to thirty minutes. Dye in a bath of 2-1/4 lb. alum, 7 oz. Chrysoidin, 14 oz. Ponceau B.

Fast Brown.--The cotton is heated in a boiling bath containing 20 lb. cutch, 4 oz. copper sulphate
for one hour, it is then treated in a bath containing 8 oz. bichromate of potash for half an
hour, then dyed in a bath containing 2 oz. Benzo black blue, 6 oz. Benzo brown N B, 2 lb. soap,
8 lb. salt, for one hour at the boil, washed and dried.

Drab.--Dissolve 1/2 lb. cutch, 7 lb. bluestone, 8 lb. extract of fustic; enter goods at 120°
F., give six turns, lift and drain. Prepare a fresh bath containing 2 lb. copperas; enter goods,
give three turns, lift, and enter fresh bath at 120°, containing 2 lb. bichromate of potash,
give four turns, drain, wash and dry.

Coffee Brown.--For one piece, wet out in hot water, run for half an hour upon a jigger in a
bath of 6 lb. good cutch, take up and drain in a bath of 8 lb. black iron liquor; drain, run
again through each bath and rinse well. Prepare a fresh bath with Bismarck brown, enter at
100° F., heat slowly to 200° F., drain, rinse and dry.

Dark Brown Olive.--Prepare the dye-bath with 12 lb. cutch, 2 lb. bluestone, 2-1/2 lb. alum,
10 lb. quercitron extract, 2 lb. indigo carmine 4 lb. turmeric, 1/4 lb.

Red Drab.--Boil up 10 lb. cutch and 5 lb. sumac; enter the cotton at 140° F., work fifteen
minutes and lift. Prepare a fresh bath of 4 lb. black iron liquor; enter the cotton cold, work
ten minutes and lift. Prepare another bath with 3 lb. bichromate of potash; enter cotton at
160° F., work fifteen minutes, lift and wash. Finish in a fresh bath containing 3 lb. logwood,
6 lb. red liquor; enter cotton at 100° F., work ten minutes, lift, wash and dry.

Fawn.--Boil up 5 lb. cutch and 5 oz. bluestone, cool to 100° F.; enter, give six turns, lift,
and add 2 lb. copperas; re-enter cotton, give four turns, lift and wring. Prepare a fresh bath
with 1 lb. bichromate of potash; enter cotton at 110° F., give five turns, lift, wash and dry.

Grey Slate.--Boil up 10 lb. sumac, 3 lb. fustic extract; cool down to 120° F., give eight turns,
lift and wring. Prepare a fresh bath with 5 lb. copperas; enter cotton cold, give five turns,
lift and wash.

Dark Plum.--Lay down overnight in 30 lb. sumac. Next morning wring and enter in a fresh bath
of oxy-muriate of tin 20° Tw., give four turns, lift and wash well in two waters. Boil out
40 lb. ground logwood, 10 lb. ground fustic, cool bath down to 140° F.; enter cotton, give
eight turns, lift and add 1-1/2 gallons red liquor; re-enter yarn, give four turns, lift, wash
and dry.

Pale Chamois.--Work the cotton seven turns in a cold bath of 3 lb. copperas, then wring and
pass into a cold bath of 3 lb. soda ash; work well, wash and dry.

Dark Brown Olive.--Prepare a bath of 28 lb. fustic, 3/4 lb. logwood, 18 lb. cutch, 4 lb. turmeric,
2 lb. copper sulphate, 3/4 lb. alum; work for an hour at the boil, then sadden in a new bath
of 1 lb. bichromate of potash for half an hour, then sadden in a new bath of 1/4 lb. nitrate
of iron, working in the cold for half an hour, lift, wash and dry. Wash and dye in a bath of
3/4 lb. Bismarck brown and 4 lb. alum; work for one hour at about 180° F., wash and dry.

Black.--Prepare a dye-bath with 20 lb. extract of logwood, 4 lb. cutch, 5 lb. soda ash, 5 lb.
copper sulphate. Heat to the boil, enter the cotton, and work well for three hours, then lift,
and allow to lie overnight in a wet condition, wash and pass into a bath of 1 lb. bichromate
of potash for half an hour; lift, wash and dry. The dye-bath is not exhausted, and only about
one-third of the various drugs need be added for further batches of cotton.

Reseda Green.--Prepare a bath with 15 lb. cutch, 8 lb. turmeric; work in this for fifteen minutes
at about 150° F., then pass through a hot bath of 2 lb. bichromate of potash for one hour,
then re-enter into a cutch bath to which has been added, 1 lb. sulphate of iron; work for one
hour, then add 2 lb. alum and work half an hour longer, rinse, wash and dry.

Fawn Brown.--Prepare a dye-bath with 4 lb. cutch, 2 lb. fustic extract; work for one hour at
hand heat, then lift, and pass through a bath of 1-1/4 lb. bichromate of potash; work for a
quarter of an hour, rinse and pass into a fresh bath of 1 oz. Bismarck brown for ten minutes,
then lift, wash and dry.

Beige.--Prepare a bath with 20 lb. sumac; enter cotton at 120° F., give six turns, lift and
add 1/2 lb. copperas; re-enter cotton, give four turns and wring. Prepare a fresh bath containing
2 lb. extract of fustic, 3 oz. extract of indigo; enter cotton at 120° F., give three turns,
raise temperature to 140° F., and turn to shade, lift, wash and dry.

Turkey Red.--One of the most important colours dyed on cotton is that known as Turkey red,
a bright red of a bluish tone, characterised by its great fastness to light, washing, etc.
Strong alkalies turn it more yellowish, but weak acids and alkalies have little action.

Into the history of the dyeing of Turkey red it is not intended to enter, those who are interested
in the subject should refer to old works on dyeing; nor is it intended to speak of old methods
of producing it with the aid of madder, but rather to give some of the most modern methods
for dyeing it with alizarine.

Many processes differing somewhat in detail have been devised for dyeing Turkey red on cotton,
and it is probable that no two Turkey-red dyers work exactly alike. It is difficult to produce
the most perfect red, and a very great deal of care in carrying out the various operations
is necessary to obtain it. This care and the number of operations makes Turkey red an expensive
colour to dye, and so shorter methods are in use which dye a red on cotton that is cheaper,
but not so brilliant or fast as a true Turkey red.

Process 1.--This process is perhaps the most elaborate of all processes, but it yields a fine
red. The process is applicable to cloth or yarn, although naturally the machinery used will
vary to suit the different conditions of the material. Bleached yarn or cloth may be treated,
although a full bleach is not necessary, but the cloth or yarn must be clean or well scoured,
so that it is free from grease and other impurities.

Operation 1. Boil the cotton for six to eight hours with a carbonate of soda lye at 1° Tw.
in a kier at ordinary pressure, then wash well, wring, or, better, hydro-extract.

Operation 2. First "greening": What is called the "first green liquor" is prepared by taking
15 lb. of gallipoli oil, 3 lb. phosphate of soda and 15 lb. carbonate of soda, the liquor to
stand at 2° Tw. Originally this "liquor" was made with sheep dung, but this is now omitted.
The cotton is worked in this liquor, which is kept at 100° F., until it is thoroughly impregnated,
then it is taken out, squeezed and dried, or in some cases piled overnight and then stoved.

Operation 3. Second green liquor. As before.

Operation 4. Third green liquor. As before.

Operation 5. A carbonate of soda liquor of 2° Tw. strength is prepared, and the cotton steeped
in this until it is thoroughly impregnated, then it is wrung out and stoved. This is called
"white liquor treatment".

Operation 6. Second white liquor. As before.

Operation 7. Steeping: Prepare a bath of water at 150° F., and steep for twelve hours, then
wring and dry.

Operation 8. Sumacing: A liquor is made from 12 lb. sumac with water, and after straining from
undissolved sumac leaves the liquor is made to stand at 2° Tw., this is kept at about a 100°
F., and the cotton is well worked in it and allowed to steep for four hours, after which it
is taken out and wrung.

Operation 9. Mordanting or aluming: 20 lb. of alum are dissolved in hot water, and 5 lb. of
soda crystals are slowly added in order to prepare a basic alum solution; this is now made
by the addition of water to stand at 8° Tw.

The sumaced cotton is worked in this bath and allowed to steep for twenty-four hours, when
it is taken out and wrung. Some dyers add a little tin crystals to this bath; others add a
small quantity of red liquor.

Operation 10. The dyeing: A cold bath is prepared with 10 lb. to 12 lb. alizarine, 3 lb. sumac
extract, and 2 oz. lime. The cotton is entered into the cold bath, worked from fifteen to twenty
minutes so as to get it thoroughly impregnated; then the heat is slowly raised to the boil
and the dyeing carried on at that heat until the full shade is obtained, which usually takes
about an hour. According to the brand of alizarine used so will the shade that is obtained
vary, as will be mentioned later on.

Operation 11. First clearing: The dyed cotton is placed in a boiler and boiled for four hours
with 3 lb. soda crystals and 3 lb. palm oil soap, afterwards washing well.

Operation 12. Second clearing: The dyed cotton is again boiled for two hours with 2-1/2 lb.
soap and 1/2 lb. tin crystals, then give a good washing and dry.

This process is a long one--indeed, some dyers by repeating some of the operations lengthen
it--and it takes at least two weeks, in some cases three weeks, to carry out.

The first idea is to get the cotton thoroughly impregnated with the oil, and this oxidised
to some extent on the fibre, and to this end the oil treatments are carried out. In this process
experience has shown that olive oil is the best to use, although other oils have been tried
from time to time. The sumacing enables the alumina to be more firmly fixed on to the cotton.
The alumina combines with both the oil and the sumac, and the resulting mordant produces a
better and more brilliant red with the alizarine. The clearing operations serve to remove impurities,
to brighten the colour, and to more fully fix it on the cotton.

Process 2.--Operation 1. The cotton is well bleached or scoured with soda in the usual way.

Operation 2. Oiling or preparing: A liquor is made from 10 lb. alizarine oil or Turkey-red
oil in 10 gallons water. This oil is prepared from castor oil by a process of treatment with
sulphuric acid, washing with water and neutralising with caustic soda. The cotton is thoroughly
impregnated with this oil by steeping, then it is wrung out and dried.

Operation 3. Steaming: The cotton is put into a steaming cottage or continuous steaming chamber
and steamed for from one to one and a half hours at about 5 lb. pressure.

Operation 4. A bath of red liquor (acetate of alumina) at 8° Tw. is prepared. Some dyers use
basic alum at the same strength. In this bath the cotton is steeped at 100° F. for two hours;
then it is wrung out and dried. This aluming bath can be repeated. Next it is run through a
bath of chalk and water containing 2 lb. chalk in 10 gallons water. This helps to fix the alumina
on the cotton. Phosphate of soda also makes a good fixing agent.

Operation 5. Dyeing: This is carried out in precisely the same way as in the other process.

Operation 6. In place of giving a second oiling after the dyeing, it is, perhaps, better to
give it after the mordanting and before dyeing.

Operation 7. Clearing: The dyed cotton is cleared with soap in the same manner as the clearing
operations of the first process, which see.

Any of the treatments preparatory to, and following the actual dyeing of, any of these processes
may be repeated if deemed necessary. The text-books on dyeing and the technical journals devoted
to the subject frequently contain accounts of methods of dyeing Turkey red, but when these
come to be dissected the methods are but little more than variants of those which have just
been given.

Seeing that the theory or theories involved in this rather complex process of dyeing Turkey
red, and that colourists are not agreed as to the real part played by the oil, the sumac and
the clearing operations in the formation of a Turkey red on cotton, nothing will be said here
as to the theory of Turkey-red dyeing.

Alizarine Red.--It is possible to dye a red with alizarine on cotton which, while being a good
colour, is not quite so fast to washing, etc., as a Turkey red. This is done by using fewer
treatments, as shown in the following process:--

Process 1.--Boil the cotton in soda.
Process 2.--Oil with Turkey-red oil, as in the Turkey-red process
   No. 2 above.
Process 3.--Mordant with alum or acetate of alumina.
Process 4.--Dye with alizarine as before.
Process 5.--Soap.

There are three distinct colouring matters which are sold commercially under the name of "alizarine".
These are: alizarine itself, which produces a bluish shade of red; anthra-purpurine, which
gives a similar but less blue red than alizarine; and flavo-purpurine, which produces the yellowest
reds. The makers send out all these various products under various marks.

For dyeing Turkey reds the flavo-and anthra-purpurine brands or yellow alizarines are to be
preferred; for pinks and rose shades the alizarine or blue shade brands are best.

Alizarine Pink.--This can be dyed in the same way as Turkey red, only using for full pinks
4 per cent, of alizarine in the dye-bath, or for pale pinks 1 to 2 per cent. It is advisable
to reduce the strength of the oiling and mordanting baths down to one-half.

Alizarine Violet.--Alizarine has the property of combining with iron to form a dark violet
colour, and advantage is taken of this fact to dye what are called in the dyeing and calico
printing trades alizarine purples and lilacs, although these do not resemble in hue or brilliance
the purples and lilacs which can be got from the direct dyes. They have not the importance
which they formerly possessed, and but a mere outline of two processes for their production
will be given.

Alizarine Purple.--Process 1. (1) Boil with soda, (2) prepare with Turkey red oil, (3) mordant
by steeping in copperas liquor at 4° Tw. for twenty minutes, take out, allow to lie on stillages
overnight, then wash and dry. For deep purples it may be advisable to repeat these treatments;
for pale lilacs using them at half strength is advisable. (4) Dye with 8 to 10 per cent. of
alizarine blue shade, working as described under Turkey red. The best results are obtained
when 1 per cent, of chalk is added to the dye-bath. (5) Soap as in red dyeing.

Process 2. (1) Boil with soda, (2) oil with Turkey-red oil, (3) steep in pyrolignite of iron
(iron liquor) for one hour, then age by hanging in the air. (4) Dye as before. (5) Soap.

Fine blacks are got if after oiling the cotton is treated with sumac or tannic acid, then mordanted
with iron and dyed with alizarine as usual.

Chocolate Browns.--Fine fast chocolate browns can be got from alizarine by using a mixed mordant
of iron and alumina, either the acetate or the sulphate. By varying the relative proportions
various shades can be obtained.

Alizarine Orange--Prepare the cotton as if for dyeing a Turkey red, but use in the dye-bath
8 to 10 per cent. of Alizarine orange.

Alizarine Blue--The cotton is boiled three hours with 3 per cent. ammonia soda at 30 lb. pressure,
and then washed thoroughly. The boiled, washed and hydro-extracted yarn is oiled with a solution
containing from 1/4 lb. to 1-1/2 lb. Turkey-red oil, 50 per cent. for every gallon of water.
It is then wrung out evenly and dried for twelve hours at 150° F.

Tannin Grounding.

The oiled and dried cotton is worked three-quarters of an hour in a vat containing a tannin
solution (1 oz. per gallon). The cotton remains in this liquid, which is allowed to cool off
for twelve hours, then it is hydro-extracted. Sumac turns the shade somewhat greener, which
is noticed especially after bleaching, therefore tannin is given the preference.

Chromium Mordant.

The cotton treated with tannin and then hydro-extracted is worked cold for one hour in a vat
containing a solution of chromium chloride at 32° Tw., and remains in this solution twelve
hours. The cotton is then hydro-extracted and washed directly; it is best to employ running
water. A special fixation does not take place. The cotton is now ready for dyeing. The solution
of chromium chloride and the tannin solution can be used continuously, adding fresh liquor
to keep the baths up to strength.

Dyeing--For dyeing, water free from lime must be used. Water having not more than 2.5° hardness
can be employed if it is corrected with acetic acid, thereby converting the carbonate of lime
into acetate of lime. Very calcareous water must be freed from lime before use. The dye-bath
contains for 100 lb. cotton 15 lb. Alizarine blue paste (A R or F, according to the shade desired),
35 lb. acetic acid (12° Tw.), 15-1/2 lb. ammonia (25 per cent.), 2-1/4 oz. tannin. The cotton
is worked a quarter of an hour in the cold; the temperature is raised slowly to a boil, taking
about one hour, and the cotton is worked three-quarters of an hour at that heat. Finally the
cotton is washed and hydro-extracted. The dyed and washed cotton is steamed two hours at 15
lb. to 22 lb. pressure. Steaming turns the shade greener and darker, and increases the fastness.
After steaming the cotton it is soaped one or two hours at the boil, with or without pressure.
According to the quality of water employed, 2 to 5 parts soap per 1,000 parts water are taken.

Brown.--A fine brown is got by a similar process to this, if instead of Alizarine blue, Alizarine
orange is used in the dye-bath. A deeper brown still if Anthracene brown, or a mixture of Anthracene
brown and Alizarine blue, be used.

Claret Red.--Clarets to maroon shade of red are got by preparing the cotton as for blue given
above, then dyeing with alizarine.

Logwood Black.--One of the most important colours that come under this section is logwood black,
the formation of which on the fibre depends upon the fact that the colouring principle of logwood
forms a black colour lake with iron and also one with chromium.

There are many ways of dyeing logwood blacks on cotton, whether that be in form of hanks of
yarns, warps or pieces. While these blacks may be, and in the case of hanks are, dyed by what
may be termed an intermittent process, yet for warps and piece goods a continuous process is
preferred by dyers. Examples of both methods will be given. As in the dyeing of Turkey reds
it is probable that no two dyers of logwood blacks quite agree in the details of their process,
there may be variations in the order of the various baths and in their relative strengths.
Typical methods will be noted here.

=Dyeing Logwood Black on Yarn in Hanks.=--Operation 1. Sumacing: Prepare a bath with 10 lb.
sumac extract in hot water. Work the yarn in this for half an hour, then allow to steep for
six hours or overnight, lift and wring. The liquor which is left may be used again for another
lot of yarn by adding 5 lb. sumac extract for each successive lot of yarn. In place of using
sumac the cheaper myrabolam extract may be used.

Operation 2. Ironing or Saddening: Prepare a bath with 3-1/2 gallons nitrate of iron, 80° Tw.
Work the yarn in this for fifteen minutes, then wring out. The bath may be used again when
1 gallon of nitrate of iron is added for each lot of yarn worked in it. In place of the nitrate
of iron, the pyrolignite of iron or iron liquor may be used.

Operation 3. Liming: Work for ten minutes in a weak bath of milk of lime.

Operation 4. Dyeing: This is done in a bath made from 10 lb. logwood extract and 1 lb. fustic
extract. The yarn is entered into the cold or tepid bath, the heat slowly raised to about 150°
F, then kept at this heat until a good black is got, when the yarn is taken out, rinsed and
wrung. The addition of the fustic extract enables a much deeper and jetter shade of black to
be dyed.

Operation 5. Saddening: To obtain a fuller black the dyed cotton is sent through a bath of
1-1/2 lb. of copperas, then washed well.

Operation 6. Soaping: Work for twenty minutes in a bath of 2 lb. soap at 140° to 150° F. Then
wash well.

Much the same process may be followed for dyeing logwood black on warps and piece goods, jiggers
being used for each operation.

Another method is to first work the cotton in pyrolignite (iron liquor) at 10° Tw., until it
is thoroughly impregnated, then to dry and hang in the air for some hours, next to pass through
lime water to fix the iron, and then to dye as before.

Continuous Process.--In this case a continuous dyeing machine is provided, fitted with five
to six compartments. The cotton is first of all prepared by steeping in a bath of 12 lb. myrabolam
extract for several hours, then it is taken to the continuous machine and run in succession
through nitrate of iron liquor, lime water, logwood and fustic, iron liquor and water. The
nitrate of iron bath contains 2 gallons of the nitrate to 10 gallons of water, and as the pieces
go through fresh additions of this liquor are made from time to time to keep up the volume
and strength of the liquor to the original points.

The iron liquor given after the dyeing contains 2 lb. of copperas in 10 gallons of water.

Between the various compartments of the machine is fitted squeezing rollers to press out any
surplus liquor, which is run back into the compartment. The rate of running the warp or pieces
through should not be too rapid, and the dyer must adapt the rate to the speed with which the
cloth dyes up in the dye-bath.

The addition of a little red liquor (alumina acetate) to the iron bath is sometimes made, this
is advantageous, as it results in the production of a finer black. Iron by itself tends to
give a rusty-looking, or brownish black, but the violet, or lilac shade that alumina gives
with logwood, tones the black and makes it look more pleasant.

Some dyers add a small quantity, 1 per cent., of the weight of the cotton of sulphate of copper
to the iron bath, others add even more than this. Some use nitrate of copper; the copper giving
a greenish shade of black with logwood, and this tones down the iron black and makes it more
bloomy in appearance.

Single bath methods of dyeing logwood blacks are in use, such methods are not economical as
a large quantity, both of dye-wood and mordants, remain in the bath unused. Although full intense
blacks can be dyed with them, the black is rather loosely fixed and tends to rub off. This
is because as both the dye-stuff and the mordant are in the same bath together they tend to
enter into combination and form a colour lake that precipitates out in the dye-bath, causing
the loss of material alluded to above, while some of it gets mechanically fixed on the cotton,
in a more or less loose form, and this looseness causes the colour to rub off.

For a chrome-logwood black, a dye-bath is made with 3 lb. bichromate of potash, 100 gallons
logwood decoction at 3° Tw., and 6-1/2 lb. hydrochloric acid. Enter the cotton into the cold
bath, raise slowly to the boil and work until the cotton has acquired a full black blue colour,
then take it out and rinse in a hot lime water when a blue black will be got.

A copper-logwood black is got by taking 100 gallons logwood decoction at 3° Tw., and 6 lb.
copper acetate (verdigris); the cotton is entered cold and brought up to the boil. Copper nitrate
may be used in the place of the copper acetate, when it is a good plan to add a little soda
to the bath. Some dyers in working a copper-logwood black make the dye-bath from 100 gallons
logwood liquor at 2° Tw., 4 lb. copper sulphate (bluestone) and 4 lb. soda. This bath is used
at about 180° to 190° F., for three-quarters of an hour, then the cotton is lifted out, wrung
and aged or as it is sometimes called "smothered" for five hours. The operations are repeated
two or three times to develop a full black.

Logwood black dyeing has lost much of its importance of late years owing to the introduction
of the many direct blacks, which are much easier of application and leave the cotton with a
fuller and softer feel.

Logwood Greys.--These are much dyed on cotton and are nothing more than weak logwood blacks,
and may be dyed by the same processes only using baths of about one-tenth the strength.

By a one-bath process 5 lb. of logwood are made into a decoction and to this 1 lb. of copperas
(ferrous sulphate) is added and the cotton is dyed at about 150° F. in this bath. By adding
to the dye-bath small quantities of other dye-woods, fustic, peach wood, sumach, etc., greys
of various shades are obtained. Some recipes bearing on this point are given in this section.

Logwood is not only used for dyeing blacks and greys as the principal colouring matter, but
is also used as a shading colour along with cutch, fustic, quercitron, etc., in dyeing olives,
browns, etc., and among the recipes given in this section examples of its use in this direction
will be found.

The dye-woods--fustic, Brazil wood, bar wood, Lima wood, cam wood, cutch, peach wood, quercitron
bark, Persian berries--have since the introduction of the direct dyes lost much of their importance
and are now little used. Cutch is used in the dyeing of browns and several recipes have already
been given. Their production consists essentially in treating the cotton in a bath of cutch,
either alone or for the purpose of shading with other dye-woods when the cotton takes up the
tannin and colouring matter of the cutch, etc. The colour is then developed by treatment with
bichromate of potash, either with or without the addition of an iron salt to darken the shade
of brown.

The usual methods of applying all the other dye-woods, to obtain scarlets to reds with Brazil
wood, Lima wood, peach wood; or yellows with fustic, quercitron or Persian berries, is to first
prepare the cotton with sumac, then mordant with alumina acetate or tin crystals (the latter
gives the brightest shades), then dye in a decoction of the dye-woods. Sometimes the cotton
is boiled in a bath of the wood when it takes up some of the dye-wood, next there is added
alumina acetate or tin crystals and the dyeing is continued when the colour becomes developed
and fixed upon the cotton.

Iron may be used as a mordant for any of these dye-woods but it gives dull sad shades.

Chrome mordants can also be used and these produce darker shades than tin or alumina mordants.

As practically all these dye-woods are now not used by themselves it has not been deemed necessary
to give specific recipes for their application, on previous pages several are given showing
their use in combination with other dyes.

The dye-stuff Dinitroso-resorcine or Solid green O is used along with iron mordants for producing
fast greens and with chrome mordants for producing browns to a limited extent in cotton dyeing.
The following recipes give the details of the process.

Green.--Steep the cotton yarn or cloth in the following liquor until well impregnated, then
dry: 3 gallons iron liquor (pyrolignite of iron), 22° Tw. gallons of water, 3/4 gallon acetic
acid, 12° Tw., 2 lb. ammonium chloride. Then pass the cotton through a warm bath of 3 oz. phosphate
of soda and 4 oz. chalk per gallon, then enter into a dye-bath containing 6 lb. Solid green
O. Work as described for dyeing alizarine red. For darker greens of a Russian green shade use
10 lb. of solid green O, in the dye-bath.

Brown.--A fine brown is got by steeping the cotton in a bath of 8 lb. Solid green O, 6-3/4
gallons water, 1-1/2 gallons ammonia and 2 lb. acetate of chrome; dry, then pass through a
soap-bath, wash and dry.

Deep Olive Brown.--Mix 8 lb. Solid green O and 4-1/2 lb. borax with 6 gallons water, add 1/2
lb. Turkey-red oil, 5 lb. ammonia, then 2 gallons water and 1-1/2 lb. copper-soda solution
and another 2 gallons water. Steep the cotton in this, dry, soap well and wash. The copper-soda
solution is made from 10 lb. chloride of copper (75° Tw.), 5 lb. tartaric acid, 12 lb. caustic
soda (75° Tw.) and 4 lb. glycerine.

Khaki.--Make the dye liquor from 14 lb. Solid green O, 1/2 lb. Alizarine yellow N, 1 lb. caustic
soda (36° Tw.), 1/2 lb. Turkey-red oil and 8 gallons water. To this add 2-1/2 lb. acetate of
chrome (32° Tw.), 2-1/4 lb. copper-soda solution and 4 gallons water.

Sage Green.--Use 1-1/4 lb. Ceruleine, 1/2 lb.

Pale Brown.--Use 4 lb. Solid green O, 2-1/2 lb. borax, 3 lb. ammonia, 1/2 lb.

Pale Fawn Brown.--The dye-bath is made from 1/2 lb. Alizarine, 1-1/4 lb. Solid green O, 1-1/2
lb. borax, 1/2 lb. Turkey-red oil and 5 gallons of water to which is added 1-1/2 lb. acetate
of chrome (32° Tw.), 1-1/2 lb. copper-soda solution and 4 gallons water. In all cases the cotton
is steeped in the dye liquors until thoroughly impregnated, then the excess liquor is wrung
out, the cotton dried, then passed through a soap bath, washed well and dried.

Dark Brown.--Place the cotton in a lukewarm bath of 25 lb. cutch and 1-1/2 lb. copper sulphate;
work for half an hour, then steep for six hours, then lift, wring and enter into a bath of
3-1/4 lb. bichromate of potash at 160° F. for twenty minutes. Then wash and dry.

Yellow Brown.--Make a bath with 14 lb. cutch and 1/2 lb. copper sulphate; work in this bath
for four hours at 120° F., then pass into a bath of 2 lb. copperas and 1/2 lb. chalk, work
for half an hour in the cold, then pass into a hot bath of 2-1/2 lb. bichromate of potash at
150° F. for half an hour.

Dark Brown.--Make a dye-bath with 15 lb. cutch, 2 lb. logwood extract and 2 lb. fustic extract;
work the cotton in this at 160° F. for three hours, then pass into a cold bath of 1 lb. copperas
and 1/4 lb. chalk for half an hour, then into a bath of 3 lb. bichromate of potash for half
an hour at 150° F., then wash and dry.

(7) PRODUCTION OF COLOUR DIRECT UPON COTTON FIBRES.

By the action of nitrous acid upon the salts of the primary organic amines the so-called diazo
compounds are formed. An example of this important process is that of nitrous acid on aniline
hydrochloride shown in the following equation:--

C{6}H{5}NH{2} + HCl + HNO{2}   2H{2}O + C{6}H{5}N:NCl Hydrochloric acid        Nitrous   Water,
Diazo-benzene aniline,                 acid,               chloride.

These diazo compounds are distinguished by their active properties, especially in combining
with amines in acid solutions, or with phenols in alkaline solution to form the azo dyes, thus
diazobenzene chloride will combine with naphthol to form naphthol-azo-benzene, thus:--

C{6}H{5}N:NCl + C{10}H{7}OH + NaOH = Diazo-benzene chloride, Naphthol, Caustic soda.

C{10}H{6}OHN:NC{6}H{5} + NaCl + H{2}O Naphthol-azo-benzene,        Salt,  Water.

These azo compounds are coloured, but are perfectly insoluble in water, alkalies, or acids;
on the other hand the sulphonates of these bodies are easily soluble and form the numerous
azo dyes now so largely made and used in wool and silk dyeing, but which on account of their
being sulphonates cannot be used for cotton dyeing.

Methods have been devised for producing the insoluble azo colours direct upon the fibres. They
are also called naphthol colours from the use of beta-and alpha-naphthol in their production.
Although these azo dyes, when produced on the fibre, do not possess the fastness of the alizarine
dyes, yet, on account of their cheapness and relative great fastness to soap and the action
of sunlight, they are better than many of the newer cotton dyes.

By this method (first introduced in England by Holliday) colours of exceptional brightness
and fastness can be obtained which were not obtainable with the dyes then known. Those which
are obtained from phenols are of the first importance.

The Diazotisation of the Amido Bases.

With most bases this must be accomplished as cold as possible below 65° F. At a higher temperature,
and when allowed to stand, most diazo compounds decompose quickly with evolution of nitrogen,
which decomposition results in the mixture losing its power of producing colour, or at the
most gives unsatisfactory results. For this reason it is therefore always necessary to work
as cold and as quickly as possible.

The amido-azo bodies, whose compounds with the phenols are also distinguished by their great
fastness, are in this respect an exception. They can be diazotised at the ordinary temperature,
and their diazo compounds are much stabler than those, for example, of alpha-and beta-naphthylamine
or of aniline, which must always be used as quickly as possible.

From anisidine, phenetidine and amido-diphenylamine, still more stable diazo compounds can
be obtained, but the prices of these bases are rather high, and the colours produced with them
are not fast to light.

The cheapest and most convenient method of obtaining nitrous acid for diazotising is by the
action of a mineral acid, preferably hydrochloric acid, upon nitrite of soda.

For diazotising one molecule of base requires one molecule of hydrochloric acid to form a salt
of the base, a molecule of nitrite of soda, and another molecule of hydrochloric acid to decompose
the nitrite. The diazotisation is better carried out and the diazo solution rendered more stable
if another molecule of hydrochloric acid and an excess of nitrite of soda are used. The presence
of an excess of nitrite can be determined by testing the diazo solution with potassium iodide
starch paper, which in the presence of excess of nitrite gives the blue iodine starch reaction.

In carrying out the diazotisation, the base is first dissolved in the whole amount of hydrochloric
acid which has to be used, and the solution is filtered. The diazotisation takes place in the
manner shown in the equation:--

  C{6}H{5}NH{2} + HCl   +         HCl             +        NaNO{2} =
Aniline hydrochloride,         Hydrochloric acid,         Sodium nitrite,

   NaCl     +       C{6}H{5}N:NCl        +      H{2}0
   Salt,         Diazo-benzene chloride,          Water.

The bases which form salts soluble with difficulty, such as nitroaniline and the amido-azo
bodies, offer special difficulties in diazotising.

It has been found that the operation with these is best carried out if the chemically pure
bases in paste form are mixed with the requisite amount of nitrite, and the diluted paste then
poured into the hydrochloric acid.

It has been found by experience that the colour is developed much brighter upon the fibre when
the diazo solution contains acetic acid and no free mineral acid. However, the diazotisation
is better carried out with hydrochloric acid, and the presence of the latter is necessary to
give stability to the solution. If before the diazo solution is used a quantity of acetate
of soda be added to it, the free hydrochloric acid liberates acetic acid from the acetate,
and the chloride of the diazo body changes into its acetate. It is better to add an excess
above the two molecules of acetate of soda which are required.

The combination when aniline and beta-naphthol are used, as the amine and phenol respectively,
is shown in the following equations:--

   C{6}H{5}N:NCl        +    C{10}H{7}OH      +
Diazo-benzene chloride,         B. naphthol,

NaOH = 2NaCl    +   C{6}H{5}N:NC{10}H{6}OH    +    H{2}O Caustic soda,         Benzene- azo-naphthol,
Water.

Or, with naphthylamine and naphthol, thus:--

C{10}H{7}N:NCl     +     C{10}H{7}OH     +     NaOH =

  NaCl     +     C{10}H{7}N:NC{10}H{6}OH     +   H{2}O
                   Naphthalene azo-naphthol.

By the action of nitrous acid upon amido-azo bodies a group of bodies called diazo-azo compounds
are obtained which contain the group N:N twice over, thus:--

  C{6}H{5}N:NC{6}H{4}NH{2}HCl + NaNO{2} + 2HCl =
        Benzene-azo-aniline-hydrochloride,

NaCl + C{6}H{5}N:NC{6}H{4}N:NCl + 2H{2}O.
           Diazo-azo-benzene-chloride.

When this compound is combined with naphthol diazo-azo dyes are produced.

C{6}H{5}N:NC{6}H{4}N:NC{10}H{6}OH. Benzene-azo-benzene-azo-naphthol.

The molecular weights of the bases, phenols and chemicals employed are the following:--

1. Hydrochloric acid, HCl--36.5. 2. Caustic soda, NaOH--40. 3. Nitrite of soda, NaNO{2}--69.
4. Acetate of soda, NaC{2}H{3}O{2}3H{2}O--136.

1. Commercial hydrochloric acid at 32° Tw. contains about 365 grams of HCl in a litre, or 3-1/2
lb. in a gallon.

2. The commercial 77 per cent. soda must always be used, and for practical purposes it may
be taken as pure. It is best to make a solution which contains 160 grams NaOH in a litre of water.

3. The nitrite supplied is almost chemically pure, and is easily soluble in water. In order
to make a solution 140 or 290 grams are dissolved per litre.

4. Crystallised acetate of soda contains 3 molecules of water of crystallisation, and is usually
somewhat moist. Instead of 136 grams 140 are taken to allow for moisture. The amount is dissolved
in about 500 cubic centimetres of water.

Bases.

1. Aniline, C{6}H{5}NH{2}--93. 2. Toluidine, C{7}H{7}NH{2}--107. 3. Alpha-and beta-naphthylamine,
C{10}H{7}NH{2}--143. 4. Para-or meta-nitroaniline, C{6}H{4}NO{2}NH{2}--138. 5. Nitro-para-toluidine,
C{7}H{6}NO{2}NH{2}--152. 6. Amidoazobenzene (base), C{6}H{5}N:NC{6}H{4}NH{2}--197. 7. Orthoamidoazotoluol
(base), C{7}H{7}N:NC{7}H{6}NH{2}--225. 8. Alpha-or beta-naphthol C{10}H{7}OH--144.

Example of Quantities Taken.

                                  Molecular Weight.
1. Molecule nitrite                   69 grams.
2. Molecule aniline                   93   "
3. Molecule hydrochloric acid        365   "
4. Molecule acetate of soda          136   "
5. Molecule of naphthol              144   "
6. Molecule caustic soda              40   "

Applying the principles which have just been described to the dyeing of cotton, it is found
that the cotton may be dyed by taking the base and preparing the diazo body, impregnating the
cotton with this, and developing the colour by passing into a bath of the phenol. On the other
hand, the cotton can be prepared with the phenol and the colour developed by passing into a
bath of the diazotised base, and practice has shown that this latter proceeding is the best.
Practically the only phenol that is used is the beta-naphthol; alpha-naphthol is occasionally
used, but not often.

The purer the beta-naphthol the better, especially for producing the paranitroaniline red.
Various preparations of beta-naphthol have been brought out by colour makers.

The process of dyeing cotton with a naphthol colour takes place in two stages, the first being
the grounding or preparing with the naphthol, the second the developing with the diazotised
base. Some of the effects which can be obtained from the two naphthols and various bases are
given in the following table:--

     Base.           With beta-naphthol, gives   With alpha-naphthol, gives
1. Aniline,                Orange yellow;              Cutch brown.
2. Paratoluidine,          Full yellow orange;         Cutch brown.
3. Metanitroaniline,       Fiery yellowish red;        Brownish orange.
4. Paranitroaniline,       Bright scarlet;                "       "
5. Nitroparatoluidine,        Orange;                  Very bright catechu.
6. Alpha-naphthylamine,       Bluish claret red;       Reddish puce.
7. Beta-naphthylamine,        Turkey red;                     "
8. Amidoazobenzene,           Red;                            "
9. Orthoamidoazotoluene,      Yellowish claret red;           "

By mixing alpha-and beta-naphthols together a variety of grenat and claret reds and browns
can be obtained.

With regard to the fastness of the shades produced the following may be considered:--

             Fast to Soaping.

Combination of A-Naphthol with Toluidine.
     "              "          A-Naphthylamine.
     "              "          B-Naphthylamine.
     "              "          Amidoazobenzene.
     "         B-Naphthol with Toluidine.
     "              "          Paranitroaniline.
     "              "          Nitroparatoluidine.
     "              "          B-Naphthylamine.
     "              "          A-Naphthylamine.

                Moderately Fast.

Combination of A-Naphthol with Aniline.
     "              "          Paranitroaniline.
     "              "          Orthoamidoazotoluene.
     "            B-Naphthol with Metanitroaniline.
     "              "             Amidoazobenzene.

                Very Loose.

Combination of A-Naphthol with Paratoluidine.
     "              "          Metanitroaniline.
     "              "          Nitroparatoluidine.
     "         B-Naphthol with Aniline.
     "              "          Paratoluidine.
     "              "          Orthoamidoazotoluene.

The samples were tested for fastness to light by exposing them for nine days with the following
results:--

                Fast.

Combination of A-Naphthol with Aniline.
    "               "          Toluidine.
    "               "          Metanitroaniline.
    "               "          Paranitroaniline.
    "               "          Nitroparatoluidine.
    "               "          B-Naphthylamine.
    "               "          Amidoazobenzol.
    "               "          Orthoamidoazotoluol.
    "          B-Naphthol with Aniline.
    "               "          Paratoluidine.
    "               "          Metanitroaniline.
    "               "          Paranitroaniline.
    "               "          B-Naphthylamine.
    "               "          A-Naphthylamine.

                Moderately Fast.

Combination of B- Naphthol with Nitroparatoluidine.

                Very Loose.

Combination of A-Naphthol with Toluidine.
    "               "          A-Naphthylamine
    "          B-Naphthol with Toluidine.
    "               "          Amidoazobenzene.
    "               "          Orthoamidoazotoluene.

The most important of the naphthol colours is undoubtedly paranitroaniline red, produced by
the combination of paranitroaniline and beta-naphthol. In order to produce the best and brightest
shades these two bodies must be quite pure. The following directions may be followed:--

=Dyeing Paranitroaniline Red on Yarn.=

It unfortunately happens that this red does not admit of being worked in large quantities at
a time, particularly in the diazo bath where the colour is developed, as the previous operations
seem to render the yarn slightly waterproof, and hence if large quantities of yarn were dealt
with at one time some would be found to be dyed all right, others would be defective. It has,
therefore, been found best to work only about 2 lb. of yarn at a time, carefully carrying out
each operation with this quantity. As, however, the process can be quickly worked it follows
that in the course of a day a fairly large quantity of yarn can be treated.

1. Grounding. The grounding or preparing bath for 100 lb. of yarn is best made in the following
manner: 4 lb. of beta-naphthol are stirred in 2-1/2 lb. of caustic soda liquor 70° Tw., then
1-1/2 quarts of boiling water is added, when dissolved 1-1/2 quarts of cold water. In a separate
vessel dissolve 5 lb. Turkey-red oil in 11 quarts of water, then mix the two liquors together
and add sufficient water to make up the whole to 12 gallons.

In working sufficient of this liquor is taken and put into a deep tub in which 2 lb. of yarn
can be conveniently worked. It is best to work at a tepid heat, say 100° to 110° F.; 2 lb.
of the yarn are worked in this liquor, so that it becomes thoroughly impregnated, then it is
gently wrung out and hung up. This operation is repeated with each 2 lb. until the whole 100
lb. has been treated, adding from time to time some of the naphthol liquor to make up for that
taken up by the cotton. When all the yarn has been through the liquor, give it another dip
through the same liquor. Place the yarn in a hydro-extractor for five to seven minutes. Next
open out the yarn well, and hang on sticks and dry in a stove at 140° to 150° F. The stove
should be heated with iron pipes, through which steam at 30 lb. to 40 lb. pressure passes.
This stove should be reserved entirely for this work, for if other goods be dried in it along
with the naphthol-prepared cotton, any steam or acid vapours which might be given off from
the former might damage the latter.

When thoroughly dry the yarn is ready for the next operation.

2. Developing. The developing bath is made in the following manner: 1-1/2 lb. paranitroaniline
is mixed with 1-1/2 gallons of boiling water, and 1-3/4 quarts of hydrochloric acid at 30°
to 32° Tw. Stir well until the paranitroaniline is completely dissolved, add 3-1/2 gallons
of cold water, which will cause a precipitation of the hydrochlorate of paranitroaniline as
a yellow powder. Let the mixture thoroughly cool off, best by allowing to stand all night;
1-1/4 lb. of nitrite of soda is dissolved in 4 quarts of cold water, and this solution is added
to the paranitroaniline solution slowly and with constant stirring; in about fifteen to twenty
minutes the diazotisation will be complete. At this and following stages the temperature of
working should be kept as low as possible. Some dyers use ice in preparing their diazo solutions,
and certainly the best results are attained thereby, but with paranitroaniline the ice can
be dispensed with. After the end of the time sufficient cold water is added to bring the volume
of the liquor up to 10 gallons. This diazo liquor will keep for some days, but it decomposes
in time, so that it should not be kept too long.

Another liquor is made by dissolving 4 lb. acetate of soda in 11 quarts of water.

The developing bath is made by taking 4 gallons of the diazo liquor and 1 gallon of the acetate
liquor and mixing together, and in this bath the prepared yarn, 2 lb. at a time, is worked.
The colour develops immediately. The yarn when dyed is lifted out, wrung, and then it is well
washed with water, soaped in a bath at 120° F., with a liquor containing 1/2 oz. soap per gallon,
then dried. As the cotton yarn is being passed through the developing bath, the latter is freshened
up from time to time by suitable additions of the diazo and acetate liquors in the proportions
given above.

Some dyers use a special form of dye vat for dyeing paranitroaniline red on yarn, whose construction
can be seen from Fig. 27.

The beta-naphthol bath does not keep well and in time tends to grow brown, and when this occurs
stains are invariably produced on the cotton. When the yarn or cloth has been prepared with
the beta-naphthol, and dried, the developing should be immediately proceeded with, for it is
found that by allowing the prepared cotton to lie about it becomes covered with brown stains,
and when such stained cotton is passed through the developing bath stains and defective dyeing
result.

It has been found that by adding a little tartar emetic to the beta-naphthol bath this is largely
if not entirely prevented, and the prepared cloth may be kept for a reasonable length of time
before proceeding with the development without fear of stains being formed.

Various additions have been made from time to time to the naphthol bath. Some of these take
the form of special preparations of the colour manufacturers, and are sold as naphthol D, naphthol
X, red developer C, etc., sometimes gum tragacanth has been added, at others in place of Turkey-red
oil there is used a soap made from castor oil with soda and ammonia, but such complicated baths
do not yield any better results than the simple preparing liquor given above.

=Dyeing Paranitroaniline Red on Piece Goods.=

The dyeing of this red on to piece goods only differs from that on yarn by reason of the difference
in the form of material that is dealt with.

1. Preparing or Grounding.--The same liquor may be used. This operation is best done on a padding
machine, a sketch of which is given in Fig. 26, showing the course of the cloth through the
liquor. This is contained in the box of the machine, and this is kept full by a constant stream
flowing in from a store vat placed beside the machine. After going through the liquor, the
cloth passes between a pair of squeezing rollers which squeeze out the surplus liquor. Fig.
28 shows a view of a padding machine adapted for grounding paranitroaniline reds. After the
padding, the cloth is dried by being sent over a set of drying cylinders, or through what is
known as the hot flue.

2. The Developing.--After being dried, the pieces are sent through a padding machine charged
with the developing liquor made as described above, after which the cloth is rinsed, then soaped,
and then washed. Some dyers use a continuous machine for these operations, such as shown in
Fig. 29.

While the developing bath used for piece goods may be the same as that used for yarns, some
dyers prefer to use one made somewhat differently, thus 6-1/4 lb. paranitroaniline are mixed
with 7 gallons boiling-water and 1-1/2 gallons hydrochloric acid; when dissolved 16 gallons
of cold water are added, then, after completely cooling, 3-1/2 lb. sodium nitrite dissolved
in 3 gallons cold water. After twenty minutes, when the diazotisation is complete, water is
added to make the whole up to 40 gallons. The acetate liquor is made from 13-1/4 lb. acetate
of soda in 13-1/2 gallons of water.

Equal quantities of these two liquors are used in making the developing bath.

Of late years, under the names of Azophor red P N, Nitrazol C, Nitrosamine, etc., there has
been offered to dyers preparations of diazotised paranitroaniline in the form of a powder or
paste, readily soluble in water, that will keep in a cool and dry place for any reasonable
length of time. These are prepared in various ways, and to any dyer who does not want the trouble
of diazotising the paranitroaniline they offer some advantages. They produce a red equal in
every respect to that obtained from paranitroaniline. The following details show the method
to be followed with some of these products, others are very similar to make the developing baths.

Paranitroaniline Red with Nitrazol C.--Dissolve 25 lb. Nitrazol C in 12 gallons of cold water
with constant stirring, then add sufficient cold water to make 37 gallons. In another vessel
dissolve 11 lb. of acetate of soda in 5-1/2 gallons water, then add 1-1/2 gallons caustic soda,
36° Tw., mixed with 5-1/2 gallons water. The developing bath is made by mixing both these solutions.
It will suffice for both yarn and piece goods.

Paranitroaniline Red with Azophor Red P N.--Dissolve 5-1/2 lb. of Azophor red P N in 4 gallons
of water--it dissolves almost completely but usually a few particles of a flocculent character
remain undissolved, these can be removed; 2-1/4 gallons of caustic soda lye of 36° Tw. are
diluted with water to 10 gallons, and this is added with constant stirring to the azophor red
P N solution. When all is mixed and a clear solution obtained, the developing bath is ready
for use, and is used in the same way as the paranitroaniline bath.

Metanitroaniline Orange.--This orange is produced in the same way as the paranitroaniline red,
using metanitroaniline or Azophor orange M N in place of the paranitroaniline or the Azophor
red P N given for the red. The quantities of all the materials used are identical.

Nitrosamine Red.--Dissolve 5 lb. Nitrosamine red in 5 gallons of water and 2-1/4 lb. hydrochloric
acid, when well mixed there is added 2-1/2 lb. acetate of soda, when all is dissolved add sufficient
water to make 6-1/2 gallons. This bath is used exactly in the same way as the paranitroaniline
developing bath, and it produces identical results in every way.

Paranitroaniline Brown.--By boiling the paranitroaniline red dyed cotton in a weak bath of
copper sulphate a very fine fast brown resembling a cutch brown is produced. A better plan,
however, is to prepare the cotton with a ground containing an alkaline solution of copper,
3 lb. beta-naphthol are dissolved in 5 pints of caustic soda lye of 36° Tw., to which is added
5 lb. Turkey-red oil and 10 pints alkaline copper solution, water being added to make 13 gallons
of liquor. The cotton is treated in this way as with the ordinary beta-naphthol preparation.
The alkaline copper solution is made by taking 5 pints of copper chloride solution at 76° Tw.,
adding 3-1/4 lb. tartaric acid, 6 pints caustic soda lye, 70° Tw., and 2 pints of glycerine.
The developing bath for the brown is the same as for the paranitroaniline red, or the Azophor
red P N bath may be used.

Toluidine Orange.--For this colour the cotton is prepared with the beta-naphthol in the ordinary
way. The developing bath is made from 2 lb. orthonitrotoluidine mixed with 12 pints boiling
water and 2-1/4 pints hydrochloric acid; when dissolved allow to cool and then add 12-1/2 lb.
ice. When thoroughly cold stir in 2-1/2 pints of sodium nitrite solution containing 3 lb. per
gallon. Stir well for twenty minutes, then filter; add 4 lb. sodium acetate and sufficient
ice-cold water to make 13 gallons. Use this bath in the same way as the paranitroaniline bath.

Beta-naphthylamine Red.--This red is a good one, but is not so bright or so fast as the paranitroaniline
red, hence although somewhat older in point of time it is not dyed to the same extent. The
developing bath is made from 1-3/4 lb. beta-naphthylamine dissolved with the aid of 10 pints
boiling water and 1 pint hydrochloric acid. When dissolved allow to cool; add 27 lb. ice and
2 pints hydrochloric acid. When cooled to 32° to 36° Tw., add 3 pints sodium nitrite solution
(3 lb. per gallon) and 4 lb. sodium acetate, making up to 13 gallons with water. This also
is used in precisely the same way as the paranitroaniline red developing liquor.

Alpha-Naphthylamine Claret.--This is a very fine and fairly fast red, and next to the paranitroaniline
red may be considered the most important of the naphthol colours. The developing bath is a
little more difficult to make, owing to the fact that it is more difficult to get the alpha-naphthylamine
into solution. The best way of proceeding is the following: Heat 1-3/4 lb. of alpha-naphthylamine
in 10 pints of boiling water, agitating well until the base is very finely divided in the water,
then 1-1/4 pints of hydrochloric acid is added, and the heat and stirring continued until the
base is dissolved, then the mass is allowed to cool, 27 lb. of ice is added and 1-1/2 pints
of hydrochloric acid.

The bath is used in the same manner as the previous developing baths.

Dianisidine Blue.--Dianisidine develops with beta-naphthol, a violet blue, which is not very
fast, but by the addition of some copper to the developing bath a very fine blue is got which
has a fair degree of fastness. The developing bath is made as follows: Mix 10-1/2 oz. dianisidine
with 7 oz. hydrochloric acid and 7-1/2 pints of boiling water, when complete solution is obtained
it is allowed to cool, then 20 lb. of ice is added. Next 1-3/4 pints of nitrite of soda solution,
containing 1-1/2 lb. per gal. and 2-1/2 pints of cold water. Stir for thirty minutes, then
add 1-1/4 pints copper chloride solution at 72° Tw., and sufficient water to make up 6-1/2 gallons.

The cotton is prepared with beta-naphthol in the usual way, and then passed through this developing
bath.

Amidoazotoluol Garnet.--Amidoazotoluol produces with beta-naphthol a fine garnet red in the
usual way.

The developing bath is made from 14 oz. amidoazotoluol, mixed with 1-1/2 pints of sodium nitrite
solution containing 1-1/2 lb. per gallon, when well mixed add 1 pint of hydrochloric acid diluted
with 2 pints water, when this is well mixed add sufficient water to make up a gallon, then
add 1 lb. acetate of soda.

The cotton is passed through this dye-bath, then washed well, passed through a weak acid bath,
then soaped well, washed and dried.

(8) DYEING COTTON BY IMPREGNATION WITH DYE-STUFF SOLUTION.

Indigo is a dye-stuff which requires special processes for its application to the cotton or
wool fibre.

Its peculiarity is that in the form in which it comes to the dyer it is insoluble in water,
and to enable it to be dissolved and therefore to be used as a dye, the indigo has to go under
a special treatment. The colouring principle of indigo is a body named indigotin, to which
the formula C{16}H{16}N{2}O{2} has been given. When indigo is mixed with substances like lime
and copperas, lime and zinc, zinc and bisulphite of soda, which cause the evolution of nascent
hydrogen, it takes up this body and passes into another substance which is called indigo white
that has the formula C{16}H{12}N{2}O{2}, leuco, or white indigo; this substance is soluble
in water, and so when it is formed the indigo passes into solution and can then be used for
dyeing. But indigo white is an unstable substance on exposure to air, the oxygen of the latter
attacks the hydrogen which it has taken up, and indigotin is reformed, the indigo white changing
again into indigo blue.

Indigo dyeing consists of three operations:--

     (1) Preparation of the indigo solution, or, as it is called,
     setting the dye vat. (2) Steeping the cotton in this vat. (3)
     Exposing to the air.

There are several methods of preparing, or setting the dye vat, and of each of these modifications
are in use in every indigo dye-house:--

     (1) With lime and copperas. (2) Zinc and lime vat. (3) Zinc and
     bisulphite of soda.

In all cases it is necessary for the indigo to be ground to the form of a fine paste with water;
this is usually done in what is known as the ball-grinding mill. The finer it is ground the
more easy is it to make the dye-vats.

The dye-vats may be either round tubs or square wooden tanks; when cloths or warps are being
dyed these may be fitted with winces and guide rollers, so as to draw the materials through
the liquor. In the case of yarns in hanks these appliances are not necessary.

Fig. 30 is a sketch of an indigo dye-vat for cloth or warps.

(1) =Lime and Copperas Vat.=--To prepare this vat take 75 gallons of water, 4 lb. of indigo,
8 lb. copperas, and 10 lb. of good quicklime. Put these into the vat in the order shown. The
amount of indigo is added in proportion to the shade which is required to be dyed: for pale
shades, 2 lb. to 3 lb. will be sufficient; while for deep shades, 6 lb. to 7 lb. may be used.
The amount of copperas should be from one and a half to twice that of the indigo. The vat should
be stirred very well and then left to stand. The changes which occur are probably the following:
The lime acts upon the copperas and produces ferrous hydrate--this is unstable and tends to
take up oxygen and hydrogen from the water, particularly when there is some indigo present,
and forms ferric hydrate; hydrogen is at the same time liberated, and combines with the indigo
to form the soluble indigo white. It takes about twenty-four hours to make an indigo vat. When
properly made and in good condition, the liquor will be clear and of a brownish-yellow colour,
a bluish scum may collect on the surface. If the liquor appears at all greenish it is an indication
that the indigo has not been completely reduced, and the vat needs a further addition of lime
and copperas, which should be of good quality. Too much of each should not be used, because
with them there is formed at the bottom of the vat a sediment of calcium sulphate and ferric
hydrate, and it is not wise to increase this to too great an extent, which would be the case
if too much lime and copperas were added.

To Use this Vat.--Any scum on the surface is raked on one side, the cotton yarn immersed for
a few minutes, then it is taken out, wrung, allowing the excess liquor to flow back into the
vat, and the yarn hung up in the air for the blue to develop. The depth of shade which is dyed
depends chiefly upon the amount of indigo in the vat, and also upon the time during which the
hanks are dipped in the liquor. Light and medium shades can be readily and conveniently got
by a single dip, but deep shades are best got by repeating the dipping once or twice as occasion
demands. Deep shades got by using a strong bath at a single dip are found to rub badly, while
by repeated dips the dye gets more into the substance of the fibre, and therefore the colour
is more firmly fixed and it rubs less.

Some indigo dyers have quite a range of vats, using those fresh made for dyeing deep shades,
while the old vats being nearly exhausted are used only for light shades and finally when completely
exhausted are thrown away. After the day's work the vat should be stirred up and then allowed
to stand. If necessary it may be strengthened by the addition of fresh quantities of indigo,
lime and copperas, the next morning it will be ready for use. Generally a lime-copperas vat
will remain in good working order for about a month, when it will be necessary to throw it away.

=(2) Zinc and Lime Vat.=--Zinc dust is a bye-product in the process of zinc extraction. It
is a grey, very heavy powder, consisting mostly of finely divided metallic zinc, with traces
of oxide and sulphide of zinc. Of these only the metallic zinc is active in reducing the indigo,
the rest of the ingredients are not of any consequence. The valuation of zinc dust is a very
difficult operation, but it is desirable that this be done, as the product is liable to be
very variable in the proportion of actual zinc it contains, and it will pay large buyers always
to have it tested. Zinc dust must always be kept in a dry place.

For the reduction of zinc powder lime is chiefly used. The following are two good mixtures.

Vat with zinc and lime:--

10 lb. indigo, dry and ground fine; 5-1/2 lb. zinc dust; 22 lb. slaked lime, dry.

The vat is set as follows, a part of the lime is mixed with the indigo, and the two bodies
are well mixed together and allowed to stand for ten minutes, then the zinc powder is added.
It is best to make this into a smooth paste with water before adding it to the other ingredients,
then the rest of the lime is added and the whole is thoroughly stirred together with the necessary
quantity of water.

Vat with zinc powder, lime and soda:--

10 lb. indigo, dry and ground fine; 10 lb. zinc powder; 10 lb. slaked lime, dry; 35 lb. caustic
soda at 11° Tw.

Add the lime to the ground indigo, then add the zinc and finally the soda lye.

Soon after the various ingredients of the vats are added together the whole mass becomes hot,
when it must be well stirred. It soon begins to evolve gas and the mixture froths. In from
two to four hours the evolution of gas ceases. The dark blue solution now becomes yellow and
the liquor shows all the characteristics of the indigo vat. It is necessary to keep the vat
well stirred up during the time of setting, which takes from five to six hours. If there is
much evolution of gas after this time it indicates that too much zinc powder has been added;
this is a common fault with dyers, and such excess causes the vat to be too much disturbed
and to work dirty. A lime-zinc vat, with occasional additions of new materials, keeps good
for three months, and even then is in a better condition than the copperas vat.

This vat is used in precisely the same way as the copperas vat; as it contains no sediment,
or but little, it works cleaner than the copperas vat and as a rule the indigo blues dyed in
it are faster to rubbing.

After a day's work it can be well stirred up and fresh additions of lime, zinc and indigo made
to bring it up to its original dyeing strength.

=(3) Zinc-Bisulphite Indigo Vat.=--When zinc dust and bisulphite of soda are mixed together
a reaction sets in, the zinc dissolves, and there is formed sodium hydrosulphite and zinc and
sodium sulphites. If now indigo is mixed with this solution the sodium hydrosulphite exerts
a reducing action on it, forming white indigo and sodium sulphite, a perfectly clear solution
being obtained, which may be used in dyeing cotton or wool.

With this vat it is customary to prepare a strong stock solution of reduced indigo, and to
add this to the dyeing vats as may be required.

To Make the Stock Liquor.--Take 20 lb. of indigo, grind into a paste with 20 gallons of boiled
water, then add 25 lb. lime slaked into a milk. In a separate tub there is mixed 80 lb. bisulphite
of soda, 70° Tw., with 9 lb. zinc dust; this mixture is well stirred and every care taken to
prevent it getting hot. When the zinc has dissolved and the mixture is free from any sulphurous
smell it is run into the indigo mixture given above. The whole is well stirred together for
some time, and then at intervals, until the indigo has become dissolved, sufficient water is
added to make up 50 gallons, when the stock liquor will be ready. It should have a deep yellow
colour. The surface may have a scum of a bronzy colour collect on it. This stock liquor should
be kept in casks free from exposure to the air.

To make the working vat from this stock liquor the following is the method of proceeding:--

Water is run into the vat, and this is heated from 70° to 80° C. in order to expel air from
it, after which it may be allowed to cool, then for each 1,000 gallons contained in the vat
there is added 30 lb. bisulphite of soda, 3 lb. zinc dust and 3 lb. lime, made into a cream.
When all these ingredients are dissolved a quantity of the stock liquor is added in proportion
to the shade that it is desired to dye. The whole is well stirred, then the vat is allowed
to rest for half an hour to enable any sediment to settle, and then the dyeing is proceeded with.

Should the vat show signs of becoming green in colour it is a good plan to add a mixture of
1 lb. zinc dust and 10 lb. bisulphite of soda. The vat should be kept alkaline, and so a little
lime may be added from time to time.

After a day's work it is well to add a little of the zinc and bisulphite mixture, to stir well
and allow to stand overnight; the next morning strengthen up the vat by adding fresh stock liquor.

In place of using lime in making up the vat it is possible to use a mixture of caustic soda
and ammonia. The lime will tend to cause some sediment to form in the vat, whereas the soda
and ammonia will not. When they are used the following mode of working may be followed:--

Stock Liquor.--Soda zinc vat: Put in a tub 26 gallons cold water, 15 lb. zinc powder ground
into a paste with 6 gallons water, then stir in 8 gallons bisulphite of soda at 60° Tw., stir
well, keeping the heat down as much as possible, after which add 8 pints caustic soda lye at
70° Tw. and 14 pints 20 per cent. liquor ammonia. When all is thoroughly mixed add 30 lb. indigo,
ground into a paste with 7 gallons water, allow to stand for half an hour, then add water to
make 100 gallons, stir at intervals for twelve hours or so, when the stock liquor will be ready
for use.

This is used to make the vat in the same way as the first above described. It is needful before
adding the stock liquor in making a vat to destroy any oxygen or air which is present in the
vat. This may most conveniently be done by adding thereto a solution of hydrosulphite of soda,
which may be made by mixing 4-1/2 lb. zinc dust with 5 gallons of water and 3 gallons bisulphite
of soda at 70° Tw., stirring well, so that the temperature does not rise too high, there is
then added 2 pints caustic soda and 3 pints liquor ammonia, 20 per cent.; when all is dissolved,
water is added to make up 13 gallons.

Should the vat show signs of becoming charged with indigo, indicated by its becoming of a green
colour, a little of this hydrosulphite added from time to time will correct it.

The hydrosulphite-indigo vat made by either of the two methods indicated above works well,
and with due care may be kept in work for months. It gives good shades of indigo, although
some dyers consider that these have not the rich bronze hue got from the lime and copperas
vat. The shades are rather faster to rubbing.

It has been proposed to employ the dye-stuff indophenol in conjunction with indigo, in which
case the method of making the vat is with zinc, bisulphite of soda, caustic soda and ammonia
as last described, only in place of using all indigo a mixture of 22 lb. indigo and 7-1/2 lb.
indophenol is used. Good blue shades of considerable fastness can thus be got.

Aniline Black.--This black is produced direct upon the cotton fibre by various processes which
entail the oxidation of aniline. The chemical composition and constitution of aniline black
has not yet been worked out. It is not by any means an easy colour to dye, but still with careful
attention to carrying out the various operations in detail excellent results can be attained.

Aniline black is the fastest black which is known, it resists when well dyed exposure to air
and light, is quite fast to washing and soaping. Its disadvantages are that there is, with
some methods of working, a tendency to tender the cotton fibre, making it tear easily; secondly,
on exposure to air it tends to turn green, this however only happens when the black has not
been dyed properly.

At the present day it is perhaps without doubt the most used of all blacks. The methods for
producing it are many and varied, the following recipes show how some of the finest aniline
blacks can be dyed:--

Ungreenable black is formed when the aniline is by the action of the oxidising agents converted
into a substance named nigraniline. This compound when formed will not turn green on the fibre
under the influence of acids.

1. The most usual oxidising agent employed for dyeing aniline black is bichromate of soda,
which salt will be found much better for all purposes than bichromate of potash. Two separate
solutions are prepared: (1) 61 lb. aniline, 9 lb. hydrochloric acid and 10 gallons of water;
and (2) 12 lb. bichromate of soda and 20 gallons of water. After cooling, equal quantities
of these solutions are mixed and the cotton worked rapidly through the mixture, in a few minutes
it assumes a bronze black. The material is then wrung out and steamed for twenty minutes at
3-1/2 lb. pressure, which process renders it jet black and also ungreenable.

2. Another aniline black: For 100 lb. cotton use 11 lb. aniline oil, 15 lb. bichromate of soda,
40 lb. hydrochloric acid and 160 gallons water or 12 lb. sulphuric acid. The dye-bath is filled
with the water and the cold solution of aniline oil and a part of the hydrochloric acid in
water is first added, afterwards the bichromate is dissolved in a small quantity of water,
working cold at first and gradually rising to the boil.

3. Another method is the following and gives a black that is fast and ungreenable and will
not rub: 10 lb. chlorate of soda, 10 lb. ammonium chloride, 10 lb. copper sulphate, 35 lb.
aniline salt, 101 lb. aniline oil and 20 gallons water. The sodium chlorate and ammonium chloride
are dissolved in 6-1/2 gallons and the copper sulphate separately in 5-1/2 gallons water. The
aniline salt is dissolved in as little hot water as possible and neutralised with a small amount
of aniline oil (10 lb.). The solution of aniline salt is first added to the bath, then the
sodium chlorate and ammonium chloride, and lastly the copper sulphate, dilute the whole to
14° Tw. and then enter the goods. Next steam, then run through a solution containing 10 lb.
bichromate and 5 lb. soda per 100 gallons water at 160° F., after which the goods are washed
and dry steamed at 15 lb. pressure.

4. A very good black is the prussiate or steam aniline black whose cheapness should recommend
it. Prepare concentrated solutions of 1-3/4 lb. aniline salt in 1 gallon water, 1-1/2 lb. ferrocyanide
of potash in 3/4 gallons water and 1-1/2 lb. potassium chlorate in 1-1/2 gallons water. Mix
the solutions and work in a jigger, then steam in a Mather & Platt apparatus for two minutes,
then work hot in a jigger in a solution of 2 lb. bichromate per 50 gallons water, dry and finish.

Either of these methods yields a good full black; with a little experience and care perfectly
uniform shades will be got.

The direct dyes of the Diamine, Benzo and Congo types have been of late years increasingly
used for dyeing satin (silk and cotton), and they have quite displaced the old methods of dyeing
this class of fabrics, which consisted in first dyeing the silk with an acid dye and then dyeing
the cotton with a basic dye. For details of the method of applying acid dyes to silk reference
may be made to Mr. G.H. Hurst's book on Silk Dyeing.

Most of the direct colours are exceedingly well adapted for this purpose, some under certain
conditions possess the property of dyeing the cotton a deeper shade than the silk, which is
an advantage rather than otherwise.

The dyeing of goods composed of silk and cotton is generally done in winch dye-vats, in some
cases also on the jigger.

METHOD OF DYEING.

The direct colours are as a rule dyed in a soap-bath with addition of phosphate of soda, Glauber's
salt or common salt and a little soda.

The addition of these salts effects a better exhaustion of the baths; they are therefore principally
used for dark and full shades, whilst pale shades are dyed with the addition of soap only or
in combination with phosphate of soda. Dark or pale shades may thus be produced at will by
selecting the proper additions, but the fact should not be overlooked that the greater exhaustion
of the baths not only increases the depth of shade of the cotton but also causes the silk to
absorb more dye-stuff. Too large a proportion of salt would cause the dye-stuffs to go on the
fibre too quickly and thus make the dyeing liable to turn out uneven.

A large proportion of soap counteracts the effects of the salts, causing the dye-stuff to go
on less quickly and tending to leave the silk lighter than the cotton, in some cases even almost
white, a property which is valuable in many cases, especially as enabling the silk and cotton
to be dyed in different colours to obtain shot effects.

It is thus obvious that a general method applicable in all cases cannot be given; it will vary
according to the effect desired, and partly also depend on the material to be dyed. Glauber's salt.

For two coloured effects or dyeings, in which the silk is intended to remain as pale as possible
or even white, each 10 gallons dye-liquor may contain 4-3/4 to 8 oz. soap, 4 to 6 drs. soda,
3-1/4 to 8 oz. phosphate of soda and 4-3/4 to 9-1/2 oz. cryst. Glauber's salt.

The temperature of the dye-baths is generally 175° to 195° F.; in practical dyeing it is usual
to boil up the fully charged dye-bath, shut off the steam, enter the goods and dye for about
three-quarters of an hour.

For obtaining level dyeings in pale shades it is advisable not to enter the goods too hot,
but to raise the temperature gradually. Raising the temperature, or dyeing for some time at
the boil will deepen the shade of the cotton, but at the same time will have the same effect
on the silk which may sometimes be an advantage when dyeing dark shades.

As a complete exhaustion of the baths does not take place, especially when dyeing dark shades,
it is advantageous, nay, even imperative, to preserve the baths for further use, they are then
replenished with only about three-fourths of the quantities of dye-stuffs used for the first
bath, of the soap only about one fourth, of Glauber's salt, soda and phosphate of soda only
about one-fifth, of the first quantities are necessary.

The first bath should be prepared with condensed water. If none is at hand ordinary water should
be boiled up with soda and soap and the scum removed. Clear soap baths are absolutely necessary
for the production of pure shades and clean pieces.

After dyeing, the pieces must be very well rinsed, and the colour raised or brightened with
1 pint of acetic acid in 10 gallons of water.

Many of the Diamine and Titan colours being very fast to acids, but few of them will be affected
by this treatment.

In the following tables are given those Diamine, etc., colours especially adapted for the dyeing
of goods composed of silk and cotton, divided into three groups according to their relation
to silk and cotton:--

1. Dye-stuffs possessing a great affinity to cotton and tinting the silk not at all or only
very little. To this class belong Chicago blues, Benzo blues, Diamine fast yellow A, Diamine
orange G G, Diamine orange D C, Diamine blue B B, Diamine blue 3 B, Diamine sky blue F F, Diamine
brilliant blue G, Diamineral blue E, Diamine black B, Mikado browns, Mikado oranges, Mikado
yellows.

2. Dye-stuffs producing on cotton and silk the same or nearly the same shade but covering the
cotton better than the silk. These are Thioflavine S, Diamine yellow N, Diamine gold, Diamine
fast yellow B, Diamine orange B, Diamine grey G, Diamine rose B D, Diamine scarlet S, Diamine
scarlet B, Diamine scarlet 3 B, Diamine red 5 B, Diamine fast red F, Diamine Bordeaux B, Diamine
Bordeaux S, Diamine violet N, Oxydiamine violet B, Diamine blue R W, Diamine black H W, Diamine
steel blue L, Diamine dark blue B, Union black S, Oxydiamine black D, Diaminogene extra, Diaminogene
B, Diamine brown M, Diamine brown 3 G, Diamine green B, Diamine green G.

3. Dye-stuffs producing on cotton more or less different shades than on silk. This group comprises
Diamine blue C B, Diamine blue B G, Diamine blue B X, Diamine azo blue 2 R, Diamine blue 3
R, Diamine blue black E, Diamine black R O, Oxydiamine black S O O O, Diamine brown V, Diamine
brown B, Diamine bronze G. Cotton brown N produces on silk darker shades than on cotton.

Of course this classification cannot be taken as absolutely correct, as by raising or lowering
the temperature during the dyeing process or by a larger or smaller addition of soap or Glauber's
salt (common salt, phosphate of soda), the dye-stuffs are more or less influenced in one or
the other direction. Diamine violet N, for instance, when dyed with an increased addition of
soap would dye the cotton somewhat lighter, but at the same time leave the silk perfectly white.

=Topping with Basic and Acid Dye-stuffs.=--As in very few cases only the desired shade can
be obtained in the first instance by bottoming with direct colours, topping generally has to
be resorted to. This is best done with basic dyes, in some cases also with acid dye-stuffs
in cold or tepid bath with addition of sulphuric acid, hydrochloric or acetic acid. The use
of acid dye-stuffs is restricted to cases where the silk alone is to be shaded. In most cases
basic dye-stuffs are made use of, which dye silk and cotton the same shade and deepen the shade
of the cotton if the latter has a sufficiently good bottom, thus giving the goods a better
and fuller appearance.

It is not advisable to employ basic and acid dye-stuffs in the same bath except when the quantities
of either class are very small. Should it be necessary to dye with large quantities of both
classes, the acid dye-stuffs are first dyed in a tepid acid bath and then the goods are topped
with the basic dye-stuffs in a fresh cold bath with the addition of a little hydrochloric or
acetic acid.

Of the basic dye-stuffs which are available, the following are the most suitable for topping:
New methylene blue N, and other brands; New blue D and other brands; Cresyl blue, Methylindone
B and R, Metaphenylene blue, Indazine; the various brands of Brilliant green, Solid green and
Malachite green, Capri green, Cresyl violet, Thioflavine T, New phosphine G, Tannin orange
R, and the various brands of Bismarck brown; Safranine, Magenta all brands, Tannin heliotrope,
all brands of Neutral violet, Methyl violet.

Of the acid dye-stuffs, the following are good for topping or shading the silk: Cyanole extra,
Indigo blue N, Indigo blue S G N, and the various brands of Water blue, Soluble blue, Solid
blue, and Induline; the various brands of Acid green and Fast acid green; Indian yellow G and
R, Naphthol yellow S, Tropæoline O and O O, and the various brands of Milling yellow and Orange;
Azo red A, Azo rubine A, Archil substitute N, Azo orseille B B, Brilliant orseille C, and the
various brands of Eosine, Erythrosine, Rose bengale, Rhodamine, Brilliant croceine and Brilliant
scarlet; the various brands of Formyl violet and Acid violet; Aniline grey B and Nigrosine,
soluble in water.

Bright Yellow.--Use 2 lb. Thioflavine S.

Deep Orange Yellow.--This can be dyed by using 2 lb. Diamine yellow N.

Gold Yellow.--Dye with 2 lb. Diamine gold. Some care must be taken with this, especially not
to dye too hot or the silk will be dyed deeper than the cotton.

Deep Orange.--Use 2 lb. Diamine orange B.

Bright Rose.--Use 2 lb. Diamine Rose B D. Do not work too high, especially when dyeing light
rose shades, as then the silk is apt to take up too much colour.

Scarlet.--Use in the dye-bath 2 lb. Diamine scarlet H S. The heat of the dye-bath should not
be allowed to exceed 160° to 170° F., or there is a risk of the shades becoming somewhat duller.

Crimson.--Dye with 2 lb. Diamine fast red F.

Violet.--Use 2 lb. Oxydiamine violet B.

Bright Blue.--A fine shade is dyed with 2 lb. Diamine blue R W.

Dark Green.--Use 2 lb. Diamine black H W. This gives a fine shade of bluish green.

Gold Brown.--Dye with 2 lb. Diamine brown 3 G at a low heat, from 150° to 160° F., otherwise
the silk takes up too much colour.

Dark Green.--Dye with 2 lb. Diamine green B.

Deep Rose.--Dye with 2 lb. Diamine red 10 B.

Brilliant Yellow.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Mikado golden yellow 8 G; then enter into a cold bath
which contains 1-1/2 per cent. Auramine II. This gives a very bright shade of yellow.

Dark Brown.--Dye a bottom with 2 lb. Mikado brown 3 G O, and then top with 3 lb. Bismarck brown
and 1/2 lb. Capri blue G O N.

Crimson.--Dye with 2 lb. Mikado orange 5 R O and 2 lb. Hessian purple N.

Sage Green.--Dye a bottom with 2 lb. Mikado yellow G, 14 oz. Eboli green T and 3 oz. Mikado
brown M, then top in a fresh cold bath with 1/2 lb. Auramine II and 1/2 oz. Acridine Orange N 0.

Leaf Green.--Dye a bottom with 3 lb. Mikado golden yellow 8 G and 1 lb. Eboli blue B; then
top with 1-1/2 lb. Capri green 2 G in a cold bath.

Deep Brown.--Dye with 2 lb. Mikado orange 3 R O, 3 lb. Hessian grey S and 1 lb. Hessian brown
2 B N; then top with 7 oz. Azine green T 0 and 2-1/4 lb. Acridine orange N 0.

Dark Cream.--Bottom with 1 oz. Diamine orange G; then top in a fresh warm bath with 1 oz. Orange
G G, 1/2 oz. Indian yellow R, 5 lb. Glauber's salt and 1 lb. acetic acid.

Brilliant Violet.--Give a bottom with 1 lb. Diamine violet N; then top in a fresh warm bath
with 4 oz. Methyl violet B and 2 oz. Rhodamine.

Slate.--Bottom in a hot bath with 6 oz. Diamine dark blue B and 1-1/2 oz. Diamine brown M;
then top in a fresh bath at 170° F. with 4 oz. Aniline grey B, 1 oz.

Black Brown.--Give a bottom with 2 lb. Cotton brown A, 1 lb. Diamine gold and 3-1/2 lb. Oxydiamine
black S O O O; then top in a fresh bath at 120° F. with 4 oz. New methylene blue N, 1 oz. Safranine
and 1/2 oz. Indian yellow G.

Bright Violet.--Use 1/2 lb. Oxydiamine violet B and 3/4 oz. Diamine dark blue B; top after
dyeing with 1/2 oz. Safranine, 1/4 oz. Methylindone B and 1/4 oz. Cyanole extra.

Drab.--Dye with 6 oz. Diamine orange G, 1 lb. Diamine bronze G and 3/4 lb. Diamine brown M,
topping afterwards in a bath of 1/4 oz. Aniline grey B and 1/4 oz. Bismarck brown F F.

Leaf Green.--Dye with 1/2 lb. Diamine black H W, and 1 lb. Diamine fast yellow B; top with
1/4 oz. Brilliant green, 1/4 oz. Indian yellow R, 1/2 oz. Thioflavine T and 1/2 oz. Cyanole extra.

Dark Crimson.--Use in the dye-bath 3 lb. Diamine Bordeaux S, 3/4 lb. Diamine orange D C and
1-1/2 lb. Diamine brown V, topping with 1 oz. Magenta and 1/2 oz. Formyl violet S 4 B.

Turquoise Blue.--Use to dye the ground, 6 oz. Diamine sky blue F F and 1/2 oz. Brilliant green.

Dark Grey.--Dye with 1/2 oz. Diamine grey G, and 1-1/2 oz. Diamine brown M; top with 1/4 oz.
Orange extra and 1 oz. Cyanole extra.

Brilliant Orange.--Dye with 1 lb. Mikado orange R O, and top with 6 oz. Acridine orange N O
and 12 oz. Auramine I I.

Brown.--Dye a bottom colour with 3 lb. Mikado brown M, and top with 2 lb. Bismarck brown and
6 oz. Cresyl fast violet 2 R N.

Deep Crimson.--Dye with 1 lb. Columbia black R and top with 6 oz. Magenta.

Pale Sea Green.--Use in the dye-bath 1/2 oz. Chrysophenine G, 1-1/2 oz. Chicago blue 6 B and
1-1/2 oz. Alkali blue 6 B.

Bright Crimson.--Dye with 3 lb. Congo Corinth and top with 1 lb. Magenta.

Dark Russian Green.--Dye with 3 lb. Columbia black B; then top with 1 lb. Malachite green.

Gold Drab.--Dye with 5 oz. Columbia black, and top with 5 oz. Chrysoidine R.

Bright Olive Yellow.--Dye with 1-1/2 lb. Diamine gold, 1-1/2 lb. Diamine fast yellow A and
3/4 lb. Diamine bronze G; top with 1/2 lb. Thioflavine T and 1/4 lb. Chrysoidine.

Moss Brown.--Dye with 1 oz. Diamine brown M, 6 oz. Diamine fast yellow A, 6 oz. Diamine bronze
G, topping with 1 oz. new Methylene blue N and 4 oz. Orange G G.

Dark Sea Green--Dye a bottom with 9 oz. Diamine black B and 4-1/2 oz. Diamine fast yellow B,
then top with 2 oz. New methylene blue M and 2 oz. New phosphine G.

Old Gold.--Dye a ground with 1/2 lb. Diamine gold, 1-1/4 lb. Thioflavine T, 1 oz. Indian yellow
R and 1 oz. Brilliant green.

Cornflower Blue.--Dye the ground with 2-1/2 lb. Diamine azo blue 2 B, 1-1/2 oz. Alkali blue
3 B, 1/2 lb. Oxydiamine black S O O O, and top with 1 oz. Metaphenylene blue B, 2 oz. New methylene
blue R and 1 oz. Indigo blue N.

Slate.--Dye with 7 oz. Diamine dark blue B and 1 oz. Diamine brown M; top with 1 oz. Aniline
grey B and 1 oz. Cyanole extra.

Pale Drab.--Dye the ground with 1 oz. Diamine orange G C, 3/4 oz. Diamine bronze G and 1/2
oz. Diamine brown M; top with 3/4 oz. New methylene blue N, 1 oz. Bismarck brown and 1 oz.
Cyanole extra.

Deep Leaf Green.--Dye a ground colour with 1-1/4 lb. Diamine black H W; the topping bath is
made with 1/2 lb. Brilliant green, 1/2 lb. Chrysoidine and 1/4 lb. New methylene blue N.

Maroon.--Dye with 3 lb. Diamine Bordeaux S, 1/2 lb. Diamine orange D C and 1/2 lb. Diamine
brown V; top with 1/2 lb. Magenta and 1/4 lb. Formyl violet S 4 B.

Heliotrope.--Dye with 1 lb. Heliotrope 2 B.

Lilac Rose.--Dye with 8 lb. Columbia black R and 1 lb. Alkali blue B; after dyeing pass through
a weak acetic acid bath, then wash well.

Pea Green.--Dye with 2 lb. Chrysophenine, 1 lb. Chicago blue 6 B and 1 lb. Alkali blue 6 B;
pass, after dyeing, through a weak acetic acid bath, then wash well. Orange G G and 1/2 lb.
Cyanole extra.

Deep Rose.--Dye the bottom colour with 1/2 lb. Diamine rose B D and top with 1/4 lb. Rhodamine
B and 1 oz. Safranine. Oxydiamine violet B; the topping is done with 4 oz. Safranine, 2 oz.
New methylene blue N and 2 oz. Chrysoidine.

=Dyeing of Plain Black.=--Diamine blacks find a very extensive application for dyeing blacks
on satin, either dyed direct in one bath, or dyed, diazotised and developed.

Union black S and Oxydiamine black D are particularly suitable for direct blacks, and are used
either alone or in a combination with Diamine jet black S S, which produces a better covering
of the silk, or with Oxydiamine black S O O O, which deepens the shade of the cotton. According
to the shade required Diamine fast yellow A and B, Diamine green B or G, or Alkaline blue may
be used for shading.

Dye for about one hour at about 175° to 195° F. in as concentrated a bath as possible, with
about 7 to 8 lb. dye per 100 lb. of satin, 8 to 16 oz. Glauber's salt and 5 to 8 oz. soap per
10 gallons dye liquor; keep cool in the bath for some time and rinse.

The raising is either done in a tepid soap bath with the addition of some new methylene blue,
or in an acid bath to which Naphthol, blue black, Acid green, etc., is added for shading the silk.

Direct dyed blacks are especially suitable for cheap goods (ribbons, light linings, etc.),
for which special fastness to water is not required; also for tram and tussar silk plushes,
which are afterwards topped with logwood.

If greater fastness is required, and more especially if it is a case of replacing aniline black,
Diaminogene diazotised and developed is a good dye-stuff. It is extensively used for dyeing
umbrella cloths and linings. Against aniline black it has the great advantage of not tendering
the fibre in the least, and not turning green during storage. Diaminogene B and Diaminogene
extra are mostly used for this purpose, the former for jet blacks, the latter for blue-black
shades.

Proceed as follows: Enter the boiled off and acidulated goods in a boiling bath as concentrated
as possible, charged with 16 oz. Glauber's salt per 10 gallons liquor, and 1 lb. acetic acid
per 100 lb. dry goods. For jet black add for 100 lb. satin, 6 to 8 lb. Diaminogene, 1 to 2
lb. Naphthylamine black D, 1/2 to 1 lb. Diamine fast yellow A or Diamine green B; for very
deep shades about 1/5 of the quantity of Diaminogene B may be replaced with Diamine jet black
S S. For blue black, 6 to 8 lb. Diaminogene B, or 3 to 4 lb. Diaminogene B, and 3 to 4 lb.
Diaminogene extra. Dye for three-quarters to one hour at the boil, allow to cool in the bath
for about thirty minutes, then rinse, diazotise and develop.

Phenylene diamine (93 per cent.) serves for developing jet blacks mixed with resorcine for
greenish shades. Beta-naphthol is used for blue blacks (1 lb. 5 oz. per 100 lb. of dry material,
dissolved in its own weight of soda lye, 75° Tw.). The three developers may also be mixed with
each other in any proportions.

After developing soap hot with addition of new methylene blue, by choosing a reddish or a bluish
brand of new methylene, blue and black may be shaded at will in the soap bath; finally rinse
and raise with acetic acid.

If properly carried out this process will give a black almost equal to aniline black; but having,
as already mentioned, the advantage of not impairing the strength of the fibre, and not turning
green during storage.

As the dye-baths for blacks are charged with a proportionately high percentage of dye-stuff
for the first bath, and will not exhaust completely, it is advisable to preserve them for further
use.

For subsequent lots only two-thirds to three-fourths of the quantities of dye-stuffs used for
the first baths are required, which fact has to be taken into consideration when calculating
the cost of dyeing.

=Dyeing Shot Effects on Satin.=--Not all direct colours are equally well adapted for the production
of shot effects; those enumerated in Group I. are most suitable for the purpose, and should
be dyed with a larger quantity of soap than is usual for solid shades, in order to leave the
silk as little tinted as possible. Dye-stuffs of the other groups may be used if the dyeing
is conducted with proper care, i.e., keeping the baths more alkaline and lowering the temperature.
The goods are dyed with the addition for the two coloured effects previously mentioned, then
they are well rinsed, and afterwards the silk is dyed with the suitable acid dye-stuffs, with
addition of sulphuric acid at a temperature of about 150° F. Care should be taken not to use
too much acid, and to keep the temperature of the bath sufficiently low, as otherwise the acid
may cause some of the dye-stuff to go off the cotton and tint the silk. It is best to work
at a temperature of about 150° F., with addition of about 3 oz. concentrated sulphuric acid
per 10 gallons dye-liquor.

For shading the silk all acid dye-stuffs can be used which have been mentioned in the foregoing
tables.

If in shot effects the cotton is to be dyed bright and full shades, this is best achieved by
dyeing with direct colours first, and then topping with basic colours as follows:--

Bottom the cotton first with the suitable direct colours, then dye the silk and then treat
the pieces for about two hours in a cold tannin bath (about 8 oz. tannin per 10 gallons of
water), then rinse once and pass through a tartar emetic bath (about 3 oz. per 10 gallons),
rinse thoroughly and dye the cotton to shade with basic colours in a cold bath to which some
acetic acid has been added.

Should the silk become a little dull after this process, this may be remedied by a slight soaping.
After dyeing rinse well and raise with acetic acid.

=Shot Effects with Black Cotton Warp.=--Effects much in favour are designs composed of black
cotton and light or coloured silk. The most suitable black dye for this purpose is Diamine
black B H, diazotised and developed.

Dye in as concentrated a bath as possible at about 160° F. with about 6 lb. Diamine black B
H, 1 lb. Diamine sky blue, pat., per 100 lb. of dry goods, 1/2 lb. Diamine orange D C, pat.,
with an addition of 6-1/2 oz. soap, 4 to 5 dr. soda per 10 gallons liquor, 16 oz. Glauber's
salt. After dyeing rinse well in a bath containing 6 dr. soda and 3 oz. soap per 10 gallons
water, diazotised in a fresh bath with 4 lb. nitrite of soda and 12 lb. hydrochloric acid (per
100 lb. of dry goods), rinse thoroughly and develop with 3 to 16 oz. phenylene diamine (93
per cent.), with addition of 1 to 2 lb. soda. These two operations should follow each other
as quickly as possible, also care has to be taken that the diazotised goods are not exposed
to direct sunlight or heat, which causes unlevel dyeings. The silk is then cleaned as far as
possible by hot soaping, and dyed at about 120° to 140° F., with acid dye-stuffs and the addition
of sulphuric acid. After dyeing rinse as usual and brighten.

Yellow and Violet,--Dye the cotton with 2 lb. Diamine fast yellow A, the silk with 1 lb. Cyanole
extra, and 1 lb. Diamine orange D C. After dyeing, diazotise and develop with phenylene diamine
as described above. Then dye the silk with 1/2 lb. Pure soluble blue and 1 lb. Cyanole extra.

Black and Crimson.--Dye the black as in the previous recipe, then dye the silk with 2 lb. Brilliant
croceine 3 B and 1/2 lb. Rhodamine S.

Blue and Gold.--Dye the cotton with 2 lb. Diamine sky blue and the silk with 1 lb. Diamine
azo blue 2 R; the silk with 2 lb. Naphthol yellow S and 1 lb. New methylene blue G G.

Violet and Yellow.--Dye the cotton with 2 oz. Diamine violet N and the silk with 1 lb. Fast
yellow S.

Orange and Violet.--Dye the cotton with 2 lb. Diamine orange D C and the silk with 1 lb. Formyl
violet S 4 B.

Dark Blue and Olive.--Dye the cotton with 1-1/2 lb. Diamineral blue R and 1/2 lb. Diamine azo
blue 2 R, and the silk with 1 lb. Naphthol yellow B and 1 lb. Diamine sky blue, and the silk
with 1 lb. Erythrosine B.

Brown and Blue.--Dye the cotton with 3 lb. Mikado brown 2 B, and the silk with 1/2 lb. Pure blue.

It is quite possible to produce two coloured effects containing blue in one bath by using Alkali
blue as a constituent with a direct dye which works only on to the cotton, the alkali blue
going on to the silk, as, for example, in the following recipes:--

Orange and Blue.--The dye-bath is made with 3 lb. Mikado orange 5 R O and 1-1/4 lb. Alkali
blue 6 B. After the dyeing the goods are rinsed, then passed through a bath of 1-1/2 lb. sulphuric
acid in 10 gallons water, washed well and dried.

Olive and Blue.--The dye-bath is made with 1-1/2 lb. Diamine fast yellow A, 2-1/2 lb. Diamine
orange DC, 1/4 lb. Diamine sky blue, and 1 lb. Alkali blue 6 B, After dyeing rinse, then acidulate
as above and wash well.

CHAPTER VII.

OPERATIONS FOLLOWING DYEING.

WASHING, SOAPING, DRYING. The machine shown is made by Messrs Read Holliday & Sons.

Yarns.--Yarn in the cop form is best washed in the machine in which it is dyed.

Yarns in Hanks.--A very common form of washing machine is shown in Fig. 32.

=Steaming.=--Sometimes it becomes necessary to subject dyed goods to a process of steaming,
as, for instance, with steam aniline blacks, khaki shades, alizarine reds, etc., for the purpose
of more fully developing and fixing the dye upon the fibre. In the case of yarns, this operation
is carried out in the steaming cottage, one form of which is shown in Fig. 37. It consists
of a horizontal cylindrical iron vessel like a steam boiler, one end is entirely closed, while
the other is made to open and be closed tightly and hermetically. The cottage is fitted with
the necessary steam inlet and outlet pipes, drain pipes for condensed water, pressure gauges.
The yarn to be steamed is hung on rods placed on a skeleton frame waggon on wheels which can
be run in and out of the steaming cottage as is required. The drawing shows well the various
important parts of the machine. In the case of piece goods these also can be hung from rods
in folds on such a waggon, but it is much more customary to employ a continuous steaming chamber,
very similar to the ageing and oxidising machine shown in Fig. 38, and also used in the dyeing
of aniline black. Figs.

Wringing           44.5          45.4          45.3         50.3 Squeezing          60.0  
71.4          60.0         73.6 Hydro-extracting   83.5          77.0          81.2         82.8

Pieces.

Fig. 42 shows what is called a truck yarn-dryer, which consists of a chamber heated with steam
pipes and fitted with an exhausting fan to draw out the air and water vapour which is produced.
The yarns are hung on trucks which can be run in and out of the chamber for filling and emptying.
The cylinders are arranged sometimes, as in the drawing, vertically; at other times horizontally.
3. Concentrated hydrochloric acid.

CHAPTER IX.
                    100

For the Glauber's salt:--

                 5 x 15
                -------- = 0.75 gram Glauber's salt. Of one of these solutions 5 c.c. is taken and
placed in one of the glass tubes, and 5 c.c. of the other solution is
placed in the other glass tube.

INDEX.

COMPILED BY MISS GRACE GREENWOOD, B.A. (LOND.)

A.

Acetate liquor, 190, 193. -- of alumina, 170. -- of chrome, 180. -- of lead, 159.

Acetic acid, 174, 180, 184, 227, 231.

Acid dyes;, 83, 159. -- dye-stuffs, topping with, 228. -- green, 84, 221, 229, 234. -- magenta,
84. 220. -- violet, 229. -- --6 B, 211, 218. -- yellow, 220.

Acids, action of, on cellulose, 9. Acridine orange NO, 231, 232.

Affinity of dye-stuff for fibre, 109.

Albumens, 4.

Algarobilla, 147, 148.

Alizarine, 18, 150, 157, 169, 180, 259. -- blue, 173, 174. -- --paste, 174. -- dyed goods,
test of, 258. -- dyes, 84. -- oil, 170. -- orange, 173. 174. -- pink, 172. -- purple, 172.
-- red, 171, 248. -- violet, 172. -- yellow N, 180.

Alkali blue B, 233. -- --3 B, 233. -- --6 B, 217, 232, 233, 238. -- yellow R, 209.

Alkalies, action of, on cotton, 6.

Alkaline blue, 211, 214, 215, 216. -- copper solution, 196.

Alpha-naphthol, 130, 132, 133, 186, 187, 188.

Alpha-naphthylamine, 182, 185, 187, 188. -- claret, 197.

Alum, 159, 164, 165. 166, 167.

Alumina, 157. -- acetate, 179. -- mordants, 259.

Amidazol blacks, 79, 121, 179. -- black G, 124, 126. -- brown, 121. -- cachou, 127. -- cutch,
126. -- drab, 127. -- green B, 127. -- -- Y, 127. -- olive, 121.

Amidoazobenzene, 185, 187, 188.

Amido-azo bodies, 183. -- compounds, 182.

Amidoazotoluol, 198. -- garnet, 198.

Amido bases, diazotisation of, 182. -- groups, 130.

Amido-diphenylamine, 183.

Amido-phenylamine, 133.

Amines, 181.

Ammonia, 174, 180. -- soda, 173.

Ammoniacal copper, 21.

Ammonium chloride, 180, 207.

Amyloid, 12.

Aniline, 13, 182, 184, 185, 186, 188. -- black, 79, 205, 234. -- grey B, 229, 231, 333. --
hydrochloride, 181. -- oil, 206, 207. -- salt, 207.

Anisidine, 183.

Anthracene brown, 174.

Anthrapurpurine, 171.

Antimony fluoride, 147.

---- oxalate, 147.

Appretur der Gewebe, 252.

Archil substitute N, 229.

Artificial silk, 15.

Atlas red R, 102.

Auramine, 18, 147, 153.

---- G. 154.

---- I I, 151, 152, 153, 230, 231, 232.

Auroline, 209.

Automatic yarn-dryer, 253.

Azine green, T O, 231.

Azo-acid dyes, 210.

---- yellow, 211.

Azo blue, 85, 211.

---- ---- 2 R, 228.

---- compounds, 182.

---- dyes, 18, 129, 159, 181.

---- mauve. 100, 210.

---- ---- A M, 99, 106.

---- orseille B B, 229.

---- red A, 211, 214, 215, 216, 217, 223, 229.

---- rubine A, 229.

---- scarlet, 84.

---- violet, 100.

Azophor orange M N, 195.

---- red P N, 139, 141, 193,195.

B.

Barlow kiers, 30, 32.

Barwood, 18, 156, 178.

Basic dyes, 83.

---- ---- topping with, 145.

---- dye-stuffs, topping with, 228.

Bast fibre, 2.

Bayer developer, 133.

Beaumont's cop-dyeing machine, 67.

Beige, 167.

Benzo azurine, 101, 107, 112.

---- ---- G, 93, 101, 146, 201.

---- ---- 3 G, 211.

---- ---- R, 210.

---- black blue, 164.

---- blue, 227.

---- ---- 3 B, 94.

---- ---- black G, 210.

---- ---- R W, 115.

---- brown, 92.

---- ---- G, 100, 103.

---- ---- N B, 100, 103.

---- ---- N B X, 101.

---- chrome black blue B, 96, 118.

---- ---- brown G, 118.

---- ---- ---- 5 G, 113.

---- ---- ---- R, 118.

---- ---- ---- 2 R, 117.

---- dyes, 18, 85, 208, 225.

---- fast grey, 102.

---- ---- scarlet 4 B S, 107.

---- green, B B, 93.

---- ---- G, 92, 145.

Benzo-nitrol black B, 142.

---- brown G, 144.

---- dark brown N, 144.

---- developer, 141.

---- dyes, 139.

Benzo olive, 92.

---- orange R, 87, 92.

---- purpurine, 85, 101, 107.

---- ---- B, 100, 210.

---- ---- 4 B, 87, 89, 210, 217.

---- ---- 6 B, 146.

---- ---- 10 B, 210, 217.

Beta-naphthol, 130, 131, 132, 184, 186, 187, 188, 189, 191, 196, 235.

Beta-naphthylamine, 182, 185, 187, 188.

---- red, 196.

Bichromate of potash, 164, 165, 166, 167, 177, 179, 181.

---- of soda, 206.

Biebrich orange, 128.

---- scarlet, 128.

Birch's sewing machine, 25.

---- washing machine, 36.

Bismarck brown, 146, 147, 153, 165, 166, 167, 229, 230, 232.

---- ---- F F, 231.

Bisulphate of soda, 221, 222, 223.

Black, 104, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 137, 138, 139, 142, 144,
       166, 214, 215, 217.

---- and blue shot, 222, 223.

---- and crimson shot dyes, 237.

---- and green blue shot, 222.

---- and pink shot, 223.

---- and yellow shot, 223.

---- blue, 116.

---- brown, 102, 103, 118, 136, 138.

---- dyeing of, 234.

---- iron liquor, 165.

Bleaching of cotton, 24. -- of fine fabrics, 42. -- of yarn, 43.

Blue, 96, 97, 98, 115, 125, 126, 130, 136, 145, 146, 155. -- and gold shot dyes, 237. -- and
gold yellow shot, 222. -- and orange shot, 224. -- black, 136, 137, 138, 139, 154, 216, 219.
-- developer A, 130. -- -- AN, 134. -- green, 114. -- grey, 105.

Bluestone, 164, 165, 166, 178.

Bluish claret red, 187. -- rose, 153.

Borax, 86, 180, 221.

Brazil wood, 84, 156, 178, 179.

Bridson's washing machine, 36.

Bright blue, 95, 97, 98, 145, 151, 215, 217, 230. -- crimson, 232. -- grass green, 93. -- green,
146, 151. -- grey, 106. -- navy, 115, 116. -- olive yellow, 232. -- orange, 92. -- pea green,
94. -- pink, 90. -- red, 87, 145. -- --lilac, 99. -- rose, 230. -- scarlet, 89, 130, 186. --
sea green, 151. -- straw, 90. -- violet, 231. -- walnut, 143. -- yellow, 90, 143, 154, 213,
214, 215, 229.

Brilliant azurine B, 146. -- --5 G, 97, 211. -- cochineal 4 R, 222. -- Congo R, 210. -- croceine,
229. -- -- 3 B, 237. -- green, 145, 146, 147, 151, 154, 229, 231, 232, 233. -- milling green
B, 211. -- orange, 92. -- -- G, 103, 218, 232. -- orseille C, 229. -- purpurine, 87. -- --
R, 210. -- red, 88. -- rhoduline red B, 151. -- scarlet, 211, 229. -- -- G, 211 -- violet,
231. -- yellow, 230.

Bronze green, 114, 217. -- grey, 106.

Brown, 101, 103, 117, 120, 127, 128, 130, 144, 164, 174, 180, 218, 232. -- and blue shot dyes,
222, 238. -- and violet shot, 223. -- drab, 100.

Brownish orange, 186.

Buff brown, 102, 118, 126, 135. -- yellow, 91.

C.

Cachou de laval, 100, 121.

Camwood, 156, 178.

Capri blue, 230. -- green, 229. -- -- 2 G, 231.

Carbonate of soda, 168, 209, -- of soda lye, 168.

Carbonising of woollen goods, 12.

Catechu, 187. -- brown, 112. -- -- F K, 117. -- -- G K, 117.

Caustic soda, 180. -- -- liquor, 189. -- -- lye, 196.

Cellulose, 5, 6. -- di-nitrate, 14, 15. -- hexa-nitrate, 14. -- penta-nitrate, 14. -- tetra-nitrate,
14.

Ceruleine, 180.

Chalk, 180, 181.

Chardonnet's process for making silk, 15.

Chemical reagents, action of, 257.

Chemicing of cotton, 36.

Chemistry of cotton fibre, 1.

Chestnut, 100, 104, 118, 142, 219.

Chicago blue, 112, 227. -- -- B, 115, 210. -- -- 4 B, 116, 210. -- -- 6 B, 95, 97, 114, 116,
146, 210, 217, 232, 233. -- -- R, 210.

Chicago blue G, 210.

---- ---- 4 R, 99, 100.

---- ---- R W, 114, 115, 119.

---- dyes, 85.

Chloramine yellow, 209.

Chloride of copper, 180.

---- of lime, 37.

---- of soda, 207.

Chlorophenine orange R, 91.

Chocolate brown, 102, 143, 155, 172.

Chromanil black R F, 120.

---- ---- 4 R F, 119.

---- brown 2 G, 119.

Chrome, 157.

Chrome-logwood black, 177.

Chrome mordants, 259.

Chromic acid, 17.

Chromine G, 209.

Chromium chloride, 173.

---- fluoride, 112.

---- mordant, 173.

Chrysamine, 85, 92, 101, 210.

---- G, 91, 93, 113, 114, 146.

---- R, 92.

Chrysoidine, 147, 151, 164, 221, 232, 233.

---- R, 232.

Chrysophenine, 90, 100, 210, 217, 233.

---- G, 114, 119, 232.

Ciliary fibres, 1.

Claret, 89, 146.

---- red, 174.

Clayton yellow, 210.

Cloth-dyeing machine, 76.

Cloth scarlet, 160.

-----washing machine, illustration of, 245, 246, 247.

Cochineal, 156, 259.

Coffee brown, 165.

Collodion, 15.

Colorimetric test for relative value of dyes, 268.

Colouring matter, 3.

---- principle of dye-stuff, 156.

Colour lake, 18.

---- lakes, 156.

Columbia black B, 210, 232.

---- ---- F B, 103, 104, 210, 218.

---- ---- F B B, 105.

---- ---- R, 232, 233.

---- blue G, 224.

---- green, 101, 146.

Columbia orange R, 91, 103, 104.

---- red S, 211.

---- yellow, 91, 115, 209.

Comparative dye testing, 262.

Condensed water, 227.

Congo blue 2 B, 95.

---- brown, 210.

---- ---- G, 210, 217, 218.

---- Corinth, 232.

---- ---- B, 99, 209, 211.

---- ---- G. 89, 211, 217, 224.

---- dyes, 18, 85, 208, 225.

---- orange G, 210.

---- ---- R, 92, 210.

---- R, 210.

---- red, 85, 107, 128.

---- rubine, 89.

Continuous dyeing machine, 79.

Cop dyeing, 64.

Cop-dyeing machine, Beaumont's, 67.

---- ---- Graemiger, 65, 66.

---- ---- Mommer's, 69.

---- ---- Young & Crippin, 68.

Copper acetate, 177.

---- logwood black, 177.

---- nitrate, 177.

---- soda solution, 180.

---- sulphate, 112, 164, 166, 177, 181.

Copperas, 147, 164, 165, 166, 167, 172, 175, 178, 181, 200.

Cornflower blue, 218, 233.

Corron's hank-dyeing machine, 63.

Cotton bleaching, 23.

---- brown A, 231.

---- ---- 91, 100, 101, 103, 106, 132, 137, 138, 144, 228.

---- dyeing, 18.

---- fibre, 2.

---- ---- illustration of, 5.

---- ---- impurities of, 3.

---- ---- structure of, 4.

---- ---- structure and chemistry of, 1.

---- fibres, composition of, 5.

---- ---- production of colour direct on, 181.

---- scouring, 23.

Cotton-silk fabrics, dyeing of, 225.

Cotton wax, 3.

---- yellow, 100, 210.

Coupling process, 139.

Cream, 91.

Cresyl blue, 229. -- fast violet 2 RN, 232. -- violet, 229.

Crimson, 130, 135, 151, 155, 217, 219, 230. -- red, 88, 130.

Croceine AZ, 223. -- orange, 128, 211. -- scarlet, 128, 160.

Cross-dye black, 79, 107, 121. -- -- B, 123. -- -- 2B, 120. -- drab, 93, 121, 126.

Cross dyeing, 220.

Curcumeine, extra, 211, 218, 224.

Curcumine, 209, 217. -- S, 103, 104, 223.

Curcuphenine, 90.

Cutch, 147, 156, 164, 165, 166, 167, 178, 181, 186.

Cuticle fibres, 1.

Cyanole extra, 221, 222, 223, 229, 231, 232, 233, 237.

D.

Damages in bleached goods, 50.

Dark blue, 95, 96, 97, 98, 115, 116, 136, 139, 142, 153, 154, 155,
           215, 216, 217, 218, 219.
-- -- and green shot dyes, 237.
-- -- and olive shot dyes, 238.
-- bronze, 115.
-- brown, 180, 214, 216, 217, 218, 219, 230, 231.
-- -- and blue shot, 222.
-- -- olive, 165, 166.
-- chestnut, 104.
-- -- brown, 101, 103, 117, 119.
-- cream, 231.
-- crimson, 136, 231.
-- drab, 102, 126, 233.
-- green, 93, 94, 113, 115, 127, 142, 144, 146, 151, 153,
          214, 217, 219, 230.
-- grey, 119, 120, 154, 215, 218, 232.
-- lilac, 146.
-- maroon, 89, 135.
-- navy, 95, 97, 98, 115, 126, 137.
-- olive, 92, 127, 164.
-- -- brown, 118.
-- orange, 91.
-- plum, 87, 99, 116, 138, 166.
-- red, 88, 113.
-- Russian green, 232.
-- sage, 127, 216.
-- scarlet, 153, 155.
-- sea green, 94, 214, 232.
-- slate, 106, 214.
-- stone, 214.
-- turquoise blue, 116.
-- violet, 156.
-- walnut, 216.
-- -- brown, 103.
-- yellow, 90.

"Dead" cotton fibres, 4.

Deep black, 104. -- blue, 97, 126. -- brown, 104, 118, 231. -- chestnut brown, 102, 136. --
crimson, 89, 232. -- green, 94. -- leaf green, 233. -- olive brown, 180. -- orange, 92, 135,
214, 230. -- -- yellow, 230. -- pink, 88. -- rose, 230, 233.

Delahunty's dyeing machine, 57, 58.

Delta purpurine, 107. -- -- 5 B, 210.

Developing, 131. --machine for paranitroaniline red, 194.

Diamine azo blue, 2 B, 233.
-- -- -- R, 145.
-- -- -- 2 R, 237, 238.
-- -- -- RR, 136, 137.
-- black B, 227, 232.
-- -- B H. 104, 106, 118, 136, 137, 138, 210, 215, 216, 237.
-- -- B O, 92, 100, 139, 210.
-- -- H W, 92, 93, 94, 95, 97, 102, 103, 104, 130, 132, 209, 214, 215,
           228, 230, 231, 233.
-- -- R O, 87, 92, 93, 95, 100, 101, 104, 106, 138, 139, 146, 210, 228.
-- blue, 112. 132.
-- -- 2 B, 210.
-- -- 3 B, 92, 98, 210, 227.
-- -- B B, 227.
-- -- B G, 96, 210, 228.
-- -- B X, 102, 209, 210, 228.
-- -- C B, 228.
-- -- G, 209.

Diamine blue 3 R, 95, 100, 115, 116, 117, 119, 210, 228.
-- -- R W, 95, 98, 113, 114, 117, 120, 209, 210, 228, 230.
-- -- black E, 97, 210, 228.
-- -- -- R, 102.
-- Bordeaux, 87.
-- -- B, 89, 210, 215, 216, 228.
-- -- S, 210, 228, 231, 233.
-- brilliant blue G, 96, 99, 115, 145, 210, 215, 216, 223, 227.
-- bronze G, 91, 93, 100, 106, 114, 115, 118, 139, 144, 210, 214,
             228, 231, 232, 233.
-- brown, 112, 132.
-- -- B, 209, 228.
-- -- G, 104, 119, 209, 210.
-- -- 3 G, 209, 228, 230.
-- -- M, 90, 95, 102, 104, 118, 119, 138, 216, 217, 228, 231, 232.
-- -- N, 209, 217, 231, 233.
-- -- S, 210.
-- -- V, 92, 98, 138, 143, 144, 210, 228, 233.
-- -- Y, 92.
-- catechine B, 101, 102, 103, 114, 117, 210, 216.
-- -- G, 89, 94, 101, 102, 103, 113, 117, 209, 210.
-- colours, 227.
-- cutch, 130, 132, 136, 137, 138.
-- dark blue B, 114, 116, 118, 120, 209, 210, 216, 217, 228, 231, 233.
-- -- green N, 93.
-- deep black Cr, 96.
-- -- -- RB, 104.
-- dyes, 18, 85, 208, 225.
-- fast red, F, 87, 89, 90, 113, 118, 209, 228, 230.
-- -- yellow A, 90, 92, 114, 115, 116, 136, 137, 143, 144, 210, 213, 223,
                227, 232, 233, 235, 237, 238.
-- -- -- B, 89, 91, 92, 94, 97, 98, 113, 114, 117, 118, 119, 120, 138, 209,
            214, 215, 216, 223, 228, 231, 232.
-- gold, 100, 210, 213, 228, 230, 231, 232.
-- green B, 93, 97, 115, 146, 209, 214, 228, 230, 235.
-- -- G, 94, 209, 210, 228.
-- grey G, 106, 143, 228, 232.
-- jet black, 139.
-- -- -- Cr, 105, 118, 120, 121.
-- -- -- O O, 144.
-- -- -- R B, 105, 120.
-- new blue R, 98, 116, 120, 210.
-- nitrazol black B, 143, 144.
-- -- brown B, 143, 210.
-- -- -- G, 143, 210.
-- -- dye, 139.
-- orange, 132.
-- -- B, 89, 92, 114, 117, 118, 119, 120, 209, 215, 216, 217, 228, 230.
-- -- D, 210.
-- -- D C, 223, 227, 231, 233, 237, 238.
-- -- F, 209.
-- -- G, 91, 102, 210, 214, 215, 221, 222, 231.
-- -- G D, 104.
-- -- G G, 227, 233.
-- red, 107.
-- -- B, 210.
-- -- 4 B, 209.
-- -- 5 B, 88, 89, 103, 209, 215, 228.
-- -- 6 B, 209.
-- -- 10 B, 88, 89, 146, 209, 230.
-- -- N, 87.
-- -- N O, 210.
-- rose, 223.
-- -- B D, 88, 209, 215, 228, 230, 233.
-- -- G D, 99.
-- scarlet, 107.
-- -- B, 91, 106, 210, 215, 228.
-- -- 3 B, 88, 210, 228.
-- -- H S, 230.
-- -- S, 228.
-- sky blue, 94, 97, 98, 145, 210, 215, 222, 237, 238.
-- -- -- F F, 94, 96, 98, 114, 115, 210, 222, 223, 227, 232.
-- steel blue L, 96, 210, 214, 222, 228.
-- violet N, 87, 99, 100, 145, 146, 210, 223, 228, 231, 238.
-- yellow, 92.
-- yellow N, 90, 92, 93, 100, 113, 228, 230.

Diamineral blue R, 95, 116, 227, 238.

Diaminogene, 234, 235. -- B, 138, 228, 234, 235. -- blue B B, 136, 138. -- extra, 143, 228,
234, 235.

Dianil black C R, 97, 119, 142. -- -- N, 118, 120, 121. -- blue B, 94, 97, 98, 116, 142. --
-- G, 98, 113. -- -- 2 K, 94. -- -- 4 R, 99, 116. -- brown B D, 119, 142. -- -- G 0, 142. --
-- 3 G O, 103, 118, 119, 142, 143. -- -- R, 102, 103, 118, 119, 142. -- -- T, 102. -- claret
B, 89, 99, 145. -- -- G, 89. -- dark blue R, 94, 95, 97, 116, 142, 143. -- -- -- 3 R, 97, 142.
-- -- brown, 103. -- olive, 93. -- orange G, 89, 92. -- -- 2 R, 92. -- red 4 B, 89, 145. --
scarlet G, 145. -- yellow, 94. -- -- G, 91, 98. -- -- 3 G, 91, 94, 113. -- -- R, 94, 113. --
-- 2 R, 91.

Dianisidine blue, 197.

Diazo-benzene chloride, 181.

Diazo black. 132, 139. -- blue, 132. -- brown, 130, 139. -- compounds, 181. -- liquor, 190.

Diazotisation, 129. -- of amido bases, 182.

Diazotised paranitroaniline, 140.

Dictionary of Coal-tar Colours, 259.

Dinitroso-resorcine, 179.

Diphenyl brown B N, 103.

Direct deep black E extra, 104.

Direct dyeing, 85. -- dyes, 83. -- -- fastness of, 106. -- fast brown B, 144. -- indigo blue,
98. -- orange R, 210. -- red, test of, 265. -- triamine black G X, 104. -- yellow G, 90, 106, 210.

Divi-divi, 147, 148, 239.

Drab, 93, 165, 216, 218, 219, 231.

Drying cylinders, 255. -- of dyed goods, 249.

Dull lilac, 99. -- violet, 100.

Dye-beck, 77.

Dye-house washing machine, 244, 246.

Dyeing apparatus, 263. -- of basic dyes, 149. -- machinery, 53, 57. -- on metallic mordants,
156. -- test for relative value of dyes, 267.

Dye-jigger, 72, 73.

Dyers' bleach, 24.

Dye-tank, illustration of, 54.

Dye-tub, illustration of, 54.

Dye-vat, section of, 56.

E.

Eboli blue B, 231. -- green T, 230.

Emerald tint, 154.

Eosine, 84, 229.

Eosines, dyeing with, 158, 159.

Erie blue B X, 97. -- -- 2 G, 210.

Erika B, 87. -- B N, 99, 100, 210, 224.

Erythrosine, 229. -- B, 238.

Erythrosines, 160.

Experimental dye-bath, 263. -- dyeing, 262.

F.

Farmer's washing machine, 36.

Fast acid green, 229. -- -- -- B N, 222. -- blue developer A D, 133. -- brown, 164. -- neutral
violet B, 154, -- yellow S, 223, 237, 238.

Fastness of colours, 260. -- of colours to light and air, 260 -- of colours to rubbing, 261.
-- of colours to washing, 261. -- of direct dyes, 106.

Fatty acids, 3.

Fawn, 165. -- brown, 167. -- drab, 100, 216.

Fiery yellowish red, 186.

First green liquor, 168.

Fixation, 149. -- with couplers, 139. -- -- developers, 128. -- -- metallic salts, 112.

Flavo-purpurine, 171.

Formyl blue B, 211. -- violet, 84, 229, 233. -- -- 6 B, 211. -- -- 10 B, 211. -- -- S 4 B,
211, 214, 215, 216, 222, 231, 237, 238.

Full blue, 43, 97. -- yellow orange, 186.

Furnival's Square beater, 30.

Fustic, 156, 157, 166, 178, 259. -- extract, 164, 165, 166, 167, 175, 176, 181.

G.

Gallipoli oil, 168.

Galls, 147, 148.

Gambier, 147.

Glauber's salt, 83, 108, 111, 209, 214, 215, 221, 222, 223,
                225, 231, 234, 237.

Glycerine, 180.

Gold and green shot dyes, 221. -- brown, 100, 101, 102, 103, 138, 142, 143, 153, 216, 230.
-- -- and blue shot, 222. -- drab, 232. -- orange, 214. -- yellow, 91, 113, 130, 142, 230.

Good yellow, 213.

Graemiger cop-dyeing machine, 65, 66.

Grass green, 93.

Green, 92, 93, 94, 114, 130, 143, 145, 151, 180, 215. -- and buff shot, 223. -- and claret
shot, 222. -- and pink shot dyes, 238. -- and orange shot, 224. -- and red shot, 223, 224.
-- blue, 98. -- grey, 106, 120. -- olive, 92. -- yellow, 91.

Greening operation, 168.

Grey, 106, 120, 153, 219. -- and orange shot, 223. -- blue, 96. -- lilac, 99, 153. -- slate,
166. -- sour operation, 32.

Grothe, 252.

Ground fustic, 166.

Guinea green B, 211, 218, 224. -- violet B, 224. -- -- 4 B, 211, 218.

Gum tragacanth, 192.

Gun cotton, 13.

H.

Half-silk fabrics, dyeing of, 225.

Hand dyeing, 53.

Hank bleaching, 45.

Hank-dyeing machine. Corron's, 63. -- -- Klauder-Weldon's, 61, 62.

Hank-wringing machines, 241.

Havanna brown, 166.

Hawking machine, Holliday's, 78.

Hawthorne's washing machine, 36.

Heliotrope, 99, 233. -- B B, 90, 146. -- 2 B, 99, 233.

Hessian brown 2 M, 98. -- -- 2 B N, 100, 231. -- grey S, 231. -- purple N, 230. -- violet, 211.

Hoffman violet, 152.

Holliday, 182.

Holliday's hawking machine, 78. -- yarn-dyeing machine, 60.

Hurst's Silk Dyeing, 225.

Hydrocellulose, 12.

Hydrochloric acid, 177, 183, 184, 190. -- -- action of, 11.

Hydro-extractors, 251, 252.

Hydrosulphite indigo vat, 204.

I.

Immedial black, 107, 121. -- blacks, 79. -- blue, 121. -- -- C, 125.

Immedial bronze A, 128. -- -- B, 128. -- brown, 121.

Impregnation with dye-stuff solution, 198.

Indamine blue N, 154.

Indazine, 229.

Indian yellow G, 211, 213, 214, 216, 217, 222, 229, 231. -- -- R, 211, 213, 214, 229, 231, 232.

Indigo, 18, 20, 198. -- blue, 152, 154. -- -- N, 229, 233. -- -- S G N, 229. -- carmine, 165.
-- dyed goods, test of, 258. -- dyeing, 199. -- dye-vat for cloth, 199. -- extract, 84, 167.
-- white, 200.

Indigotin, 198.

Indophenol, 205.

Induline, 229.

Irisamine G, 152, 153.

Iron, 157. -- liquor, 172, 175, 176, 180. -- mordants, 259. -- stains, 50. -- sulphate, 112.

J.

Janus black I, 219. -- -- II, 219. -- blue G, 155. -- -- R, 155, 219. -- brown B, 156, 219.
-- -- R, 219, 220. -- claret red B, 156, 219. -- dark blue B, 219. -- dyes, 155, 218. -- green
B, 155, 219, 220. -- grey B, 156. -- -- BB, 219, 220. -- red B, 155, 219. -- yellow G, 219.
-- -- R, 155, 156, 219, 220.

Jet black, 121.

Jigger, 72.

Jig-wince, 74, 75.

K.

Katigen black, 121. -- brown, 107, 121. -- dark brown, 128. -- green, 121. -- olive G, 127.

Khaki, 180. -- shades, 248.

Kiers, 30.

Klauder-Weldon hank-dyeing machine, 61, 62.

L.

Lanacyl blue B B, 211. -- violet B, 211, 217.

Leaf green, 94, 113, 114, 231.

Lehner's process for making silk, 15.

Lemon yellow, 91.

Leuco, 198.

Light blue, 115, 138. -- brown, 101, 103, 117. -- chestnut brown, 137. -- green, 114, 143.
-- grey, 106. -- indigo blue, 96. -- plum, 99. -- sage brown, 118. -- seal brown, 102. -- slate,
106.

Lilac, 98, 99. -- red, 87. -- rose, 233.

Lima wood, 178, 179.

Lime, 169, 202. -- and copperas vat for indigo dyeing, 200. -- boil for cotton, 28. -- sour
operation, 32.

Logwood, 18, 84, 156, 157, 165, 167, 234, 259. -- black, 79, 174. -- -- dyeing on yarn in hanks,
175. -- decoction, 177. -- dyed goods, test of, 258. -- extract, 164, 175, 176, 181. -- greys, 178.

Loose wool and cotton, washing of, 244.

Lye boil operation. 34.

M.

Machinery for dyeing, 53, 57.

Madder, 157. -- bleach, 24.

Magenta, 18, 147, 153, 229, 231, 232, 233.

Malachite green, 146, 152, 153, 229, 232.

Mandarine G, 211, 217, 218, 224.

Market bleach, 24, 38, 39.

Maroon, 89, 138, 153, 215, 233.

Mather & Platt's apparatus, 207. -- -- bleaching kier, 30, 31. -- -- machine, 246. -- -- washing
machine, 36. -- -- yarn-bleaching kier, 49.

Mercerisation of cotton, 8.

Mercerised cotton fibres, illustrations of, 7, 9.

Mercer, John, 8, 21.

Metallic mordants, 156.

Metanitroaniline, 185, 186, 187, 188. -- orange, 195.

Metaphenylene blue, 229. -- -- B, 154, 233.

Methylene blue, 17. -- -- B B, 153. -- -- 2 B, 153. -- -- N, 232. -- grey B F, 153.

Methylindone B, 229, 231. -- R, 229.

Methyl violet, 18, 229. -- -- B, 146, 151, 231. -- -- 2 B, 146. -- -- R, 146. -- -- 3R, 146.
-- -- 4R, 152.

Mikado brown, 227. -- -- 2 B, 238. -- -- 3 G O, 230. -- -- M, 103, 230, 232. -- dyes, 18. --
golden yellow 8 G, 230, 231. -- orange, 227. -- -- G, 91. -- -- 4 R, 91, 102. -- -- R O, 232.
-- -- 3 R O, 231. -- -- 4 R O, 218, 224. -- -- 5 R O, 230, 238. -- yellow, 227. -- -- G, 230.

Milk of lime, 28, 175.

Milling orange, 229. -- yellow, 229.

Mimosa, 209.

Mixed cotton and wool fabrics, dyeing of, 208.

Mommer's cop-dyeing machine, 69.

Mordant dyes, 84.

Mordants, 156. -- detection of, 259.

Moss brown, 143, 232.

Muslin bleaching, 41.

Myrabolam, 147, 148, 239. -- extract, 175, 176.

N.

Naphthol, 184.

-- -azo-benzene, 181. -- black, 128. -- -- B, 223. -- -- 3 B, 222. -- blue black, 211, 214,
215, 216, 217, 222, 234. -- -- G, 211, 222. -- -- R, 211. -- colours, 182. -- D, 192. -- X,
192. -- yellow S, 229, 238, 278.

Naphthylamine, 13, 132, 133, 184. -- black, 235. -- -- 4 B, 211. -- -- 6 B, 211, 217. -- --
D, 211. -- ether, 130.

Naphtindone B B, 153.

Navy, 97, 98, 154. -- blue, 96, 214, 216, 217.

Neutral grey, 132. -- -- G, 99, 106. -- violet, 229.

New blue D, 229. -- methylene blue, 234, 235. -- -- -- G G, 238. -- -- -- M, 232. -- -- --
N, 126, 145, 154, 229, 231, 233. -- -- -- N X, 154. -- -- -- R, 153, 154, 233. -- -- -- 3 R,
145, 153. -- -- grey B, 153. -- -- -- G, 154. -- phosphine G. 153, 154, 229, 232. -- Victoria
blue B, 146, 151, 152.

Nigraniline, 206.

Nigrosine, 229.

Nitrate of copper, 177. -- of iron, 166, 175.

Nitrazol C, 139, 141, 193.

Nitric acid, action of, on cotton, 12.

Nitrite of soda, 183.

Nitro-aniline, 183.

Nitro-benzene, 13.

Nitro-naphthalene, 13.

Nitro-para-toluidine, 185, 187, 188.

Nitrosamine, 193. -- red, 195.

Nitroso-resorcine, 18.

Nitrous acid, 184.

Nut brown, 103, 118, 119, 218, 219.

O.

Oak bark, 147.

Obermaier machine, 57, 59.

Oil stains, 50.

Old gold, 90, 232.

Olive, 92, 93, 127, 143, 164. -- and blue shot dyes, 238. -- brown, 143, 154. -- green, 114,
142, 144, 153. -- oil, 170. -- yellow, 91.

Orange, 84, 91, 113, 130, 137, 151, 153, 154, 155, 215, 217. -- and blue shot, 224, 238. --
and violet shot, 223, 238. -- brown, 102. -- E N Z, 211, 214, 217, 222. -- extra, 211, 223,
232. -- G G, 221, 222, 231, 232, 233, 238. -- T A, 218. -- yellow, 143, 186.

Orthoamidoazotoluol, 186, 187, 188.

Orthonitrotoluidine, 196.

Oxidising agents, action of, on cotton, 16.

Oxycellulose, 16.

Oxydiamine black A, 97, 105, 209. -- -- B M, 209, 215, 216, 217. -- -- D, 209, 228, 233, 234.
-- -- M, 209. -- -- N, 91, 97. -- -- N R, 105. -- -- S O O O, 210, 228, 231, 233. -- orange
G, 104, 209. -- -- R, 92, 104, 143, 144, 209. -- red S, 209. -- violet B, 99, 100, 210, 214,
228, 230, 231, 233. -- -- G, 99, 100. -- yellow G G, 94, 146, 209.

Oxydianil yellow, 143.

Oxymuriate of tin, 166.

Oxyphenine, 91, 102, 209.

P.

Padding machine, 80, 81, 193, 221.

Pale blue, 95, 97. -- brown, 102, 119, 122, 128, 164, 180. -- chamois, 166. -- chestnut, 143.
-- drab, 233. -- fawn brown, 119, 130. -- -- red, 89. -- gold yellow, 213. -- green, 94, 151.
-- greenish grey, 120. -- leaf green, 113. -- lilac, 99. -- nut brown, 102. -- olive brown,
100. -- -- green, 113. -- orange, 91, 92, 135. -- sage, 144. -- -- green, 217. -- salmon, 87.
-- sea green, 127, 232. -- sky blue, 95. -- walnut brown, 104.

Palm oil soap, 169.

Paramine blue B, 96. -- -- black S, 96. -- brown C, 117. -- -- G, 101. -- indigo blue, 96.
-- navy blue R, 96.

Paranitroaniline, 185, 186, 187, 188, 190. -- brown, 196. -- red, 186, 188, 189. -- -- dyed
cotton, 196. -- -- dye-tub, 191. -- -- on piece goods, 192. -- -- on yarn, 189. -- -- with
azophor red P N, 195. -- -- with nitrazol C, 195.

Paratoluidine, 186, 187, 188.

Parchment paper, 11.

Paris violet, 152.

Patent blue, 84.

Peach wood, 178.

Peacock green, 214, 216.

Pea green, 114, 233.

Pectic acid, 3.

Permanganate of potash, 17.

Persian berries, 156, 178, 179.

Phenetidine, 183.

Phenol, 130, 132, 133, 181.

Phenylene diamine, 130, 132, 134, 235, 237.

Phosphate of soda, 86, 90, 91, 168, 170, 180, 225.

Piece-dyeing machines, 71.

Piece goods, drying of, 256. -- -- washing of, 244. -- -- wringing of, 241.

Pink, 87, 88, 89, 152, 215.

Plate singeing, 27.

Plum, 99, 145, 146, 215.

Pluto black B, 108, 144.

Ponceau B, 164. -- 3 R B, 211, 217.

Potash, 86.

Primrose, 91, 154.

Primuline, 130, 131, 132, 135, 136, 138, 142, 143, 144, 209.

Production of colour direct on cotton fibres, 181.

Prussiate black, 207.

Pure blue, 238. -- soluble blue, 237.

Purple brown, 100.

Purpuramine, D H, 107.

Pyrolignite of iron, 172.

Pyroxyline, 13.

Q.

Quercitron, 156, 178, 179. -- bark, 178. -- extract, 164, 165.

Quicklime, 200.

R.

Rayer & Lincoln machine, 26.

Read Holliday's squeezing machine, 241.

Red, 136, 187. -- brown, 100, 135. -- chocolate, 119. -- developer C, 192. -- drab, 165. --
lilac, 100. -- liquor, 165, 166, 169, 170, 176, -- orange, 91. -- plum, 117, 214. -- violet,
99, 116, 152, 155, 156.

Reddish brown, 102. -- puce, 187.

Reseda, 93. -- green, 167.

Resin boil, 35. -- soap liquor, 35.

Resorcine, 130, 132, 133, 235. -- green, 156.

Rhodamine, 229, 231. -- B, 153, 233. -- G, 152. -- 6 G, 152. -- S, 237.

Rhoduline violet, 151.

Rocceleine, 211.

Roller squeezing machines for yarn, 241.

Rose azurine B, 87. -- G, 87, 90. -- bengale, 229. -- lilac, 145, 151. -- pink, 87. -- red, 88, 89.

Rosophenine, 5 B, 88.

Russia green, 92, 113, 143, 153.

S.

Safranine, 18, 146, 153, 221, 229, 231, 233. -- G, 146. -- prima, 153. -- S, 155.

Sage, 214. -- brown, 104, 119, 135, 144, 218. -- green, 93, 180, 230.

St. Dennis black, 121.

Saline salts, quantity used, 108.

Salmon, 89.

Salt, 165.

Satin fabrics, dyeing of, 225.

Scarlet, 88, 89, 135, 145, 146, 152, 153, 155, 215, 217, 230. -- R, 220.

Schaeffer's acid, 134.

Scouring cotton, 23.

Sea green, 94, 151.

Seal brown, 146.

Seed hairs, 1.

Shot effects, 220. -- on satin, dyeing of, 235. -- with black cotton warp, 236.

Silver grey, 106.

Singeing of cotton, 27. -- wash of cotton, 28.

Sky blue, 95, 98, 151, 215.

Slate, 106, 218, 231, 233. -- blue, 97, 120, 152, 216. -- green, 218.

Sliver dyeing, 58.

Slubbing dyeing, 58.

Soap, 165. -- effect on dye-stuffs, 226.

Soaping of dyed goods, 247.

Soda, 86, 132, 178. -- ash, 34, 166. -- crystals, 169. -- lye, 202, 235. -- zinc vat for indigo
dyeing, 204.

Sodium acetate, 196. -- bichromate, 164. -- nitrite solution, 196, 198. -- stannate, preparing
with, 158.

Solid blue, 229. -- green, 229. -- O, 179, 180.

Solidogen A, 145.

Soluble blue, 150, 160, 229.

Spencer's hank-wringing machine, 241.

Squeezing rollers, 240.

Stains in bleached goods, 50.

Steam aniline black, 207. -- -- blacks, 248.

Steaming and ageing chamber, 250. -- cottage, illustration of, 249. -- of dyed goods, 248.

Stearic acid, 3.

Stitching of cotton, 25.

Stone, 218.

Structure of cotton fibre, 1.

Sulfaniline black, 121. -- -- G, 124. -- brown, 121. -- -- 4 B, 127.

Sulphate of copper, 177. -- of iron, 167.

Sulphonates, 182.

Sulphon azurine B, 210, 217, 218. -- D, 93.

Sulphur colours, 121.

Sulphuric acid, 166. -- action of, on cotton, 10.

Sulphyl colours, 121.

Sumac, 83, 147, 148, 165, 166, 167, 172, 173, 178, 239. -- extract, 169, 175, 219, 220.

Sun yellow, 90.

T.

Tannic acid, 18, 20, 83, 147, 172. -- mordant, dyeing on, 147.

Tannin, 173, 174, 236. -- grounding, 173. -- heliotrope, 145, 153, 229. -- orange R, 154, 155, 229.

Tanning, 148.

Tartar emetic, 147, 192, 219, 220.

Tartaric acid, 180.

Temperature of dye-baths, 226.

Terra-cotta brown, 143. -- red, 90, 143.

Testing of the colour of dyed fabrics, 257.

Thiazole yellow, 93, 94, 209.

Thiocarmine R, 84, 211, 214.

Thioflavine S, 94, 104, 106, 209, 213, 215, 222, 223, 228, 229. -- T, 153, 154, 229, 231, 232.

Tin crystals, 147, 169, 179. -- oxide, fixing, 158.

Titan blue, 210, 211. -- -- 3 B, 93, 102, 164. -- -- R, 102. -- brown O, 210. -- -- P, 164.
-- -- R, 102, 210. -- -- Y, 161, 210. -- colours, 227. -- como G, 95. -- -- S N, 98. -- dyes,
18, 85. -- gold, 101, 102. -- ingrain blue, 135, 136, 142. -- marine blue, 211. -- navy R,
98. -- orange, 88. -- -- N, 95. -- pink, 210. -- red, 107. -- scarlet C, 88. -- -- D, 88. --
-- S, 209. -- yellow, 210. -- -- G, 145. -- -- G G, 90.

Titan yellow Y, 90, 92, 93, 164.

Toluidine, 185, 187, 188. -- orange, 196.

Toluylene brown, 139. -- diamine, 134. -- orange, 139. -- --G, 90, 91, 100. -- --K, 100.

Topping, 140. -- with acid and basic dye-stuffs, 228. -- with basic dyes, 145.

Triamine black, 132. -- -- B, 96, 137. -- -- B T, 98.

Tropæoline O, 229. -- O O, 211, 229.

Truck yarn-dyer, 254, 255.

Turkey red, 87, 167, 181. -- -- bleach, 38, 39. -- -- oil, 88, 90, 95, 96, 160, 170, 171, 172,
173, 180, 189, 192, 196.

Turmeric, 165, 166, 167.

Turquoise blue, 98, 116, 151, 155, 232. -- -- G, 146, 151, 152.

U.

Union black B, 209, 214. -- -- S, 209, 214, 215, 216, 217, 228, 234. -- blue B B, 209.

V.

Valonia, 147.

Verdigris, 177.

Victoria blue, 150. -- -- B, 151, 152.

Vidal black, 107, 121, 123. -- blacks, 79.

Violet, 99, 100, 146, 154, 230. -- and yellow shot dyes, 238. -- blue, 97.

W.

Walnut brown, 102, 119, 138, 142, 219, 233.

Warp bleaching, 43.

Warp-dyeing machines, 69, 70, 71.

Washing after dyeing, 239.

Washing and soaping vats, illustration of, 248. -- of cotton in bleaching, 36. -- operations
after dyeing, 242.

Water blue, 229. -- of condition, 6. -- volume used in dyeing, 107.

White indigo, 198. -- liquor treatment, 168. -- sour operation, 38.

Whizzing, 45.

Willesden waterproof cloths, 22.

Wince dye beck, 74.

Witz, George, 17.

Wool black 6 B, 211, 217, 218, 223, 224. -- green, 84.

Worral's singeing machine, 27.

Wringing of dyed goods, 239.

Y.

Yarn bleaching, 43. -- -washing machine, illustration of, 243.

Yarns in cop form, washing of, 244. -- in hanks, washing of, 244. -- in hanks, wringing of, 240.

Yellow, 90, 91, 113, 151. -- and violet shot dyes, 237. -- olive, 91.

Yellowish claret red, 187.

Young & Crippin's cop-dyeing machine, 68.

Z.

Zambesi black, 132. -- -- B, 210, 218. -- -- B R, 97. -- -- D, 103, 104, 218. -- -- F, 115,
119, 210. -- blue, 130, -- -- B X, 136. -- -- R X, 217, 218. -- brown, 130. -- -- G, 210. --
-- 2 G, 136, 210. -- dyes, 85, 208.

Zinc and lime vat for indigo dyeing, 201. -- bisulphite indigo vat, 203. -- chloride, 20. --
sulphate, 112.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS LIMITED.

SEPTEMBER, 1901.

This Catalogue cancels all former editions.

The Publishers seek to issue thoroughly helpful works. These books in every instance will,
they believe, be found of good value. Employers will do well to place copies of these books
in the hands of the bright and promising young men in their employ, in order the better to
equip them to become increasingly useful as employees. A workman who uses his brains must be
preferable to one who does not think about his work. Brains require stimulus. These books provide
that stimulus.

A Catalogue

OF

Special Technical Works

FOR

MANUFACTURERS, PROFESSIONAL MEN, STUDENTS,

COLLEGES AND TECHNICAL SCHOOLS

BY EXPERT WRITERS

FOR THE

OIL, PAINT, COLOUR VARNISH, SOAP, CHEMICAL, TEXTILE, LEATHER, PAPER, COLLIERY, POTTERY, GLASS,
PLUMBING AND DECORATING TRADES AND SCIENTIFIC PROFESSIONS.

PUBLISHED BY

=SCOTT, GREENWOOD & CO.,=

PUBLISHERS OF TECHNICAL BOOKS,

=19 LUDGATE HILL, LONDON, E.C.

Tel. Address: "PRINTERIES, LONDON".     Tel. No. 5403, Bank.=

N.B.--Full Particulars of Contents of any of the following books sent post free on application.

=Messrs. Scott, Greenwood &. Demy 8vo. Price 7s. 6d.; India and Colonies, 8s.; Other Countries,
8s. 6d.; strictly net.

=Press Opinions.=

     "This work is written from the standpoint of the oil trade, but its
     perusal will be found very useful by users of machinery and all who
     have to do with lubricants in any way."--Colliery Guardian.

     "The properties of the different grades of mineral oil and of the
     animal and vegetable non-drying oils are carefully described, and
     the author justly insists that the peculiarities of the machinery
     on which the lubricants are to be employed must be considered
     almost before everything else.... The chapters on grease and
     solidified oils, etc., are excellent."--The Ironmonger. 390 pp. 1898. Price 12s. 6d.; India and Colonies, 13s. 6d.;
Other Countries, 15s.; strictly net.

=Contents.=

Chapters I., Introductory.--II., Soap-maker's Alkalies.--III., Soap Fats and Oils.--IV., Perfumes.--V.,
Water as a Soap Material.--VI., Soap Machinery.--VII., Technology of Soap-making.--VIII., Glycerine
in Soap Lyes.--IX., Laying out a Soap Factory.--X., Soap Analysis.--Appendices.

=Press Opinions.=

     "We think it is the most practical book on these subjects that has
     come to us from England so far."--American Soap Journal.

     "Much useful information is conveyed in a convenient and
     trustworthy manner which will appeal to practical
     soap-makers."--Chemical Trade Journal.

     "Works that deal with manufacturing processes, and applied
     chemistry in particular, are always welcome. Especially is this the
     case when the material presented is so up-to-date as we find it
     here."--Bradford Observer.

     "The best and most reliable methods of analysis are fully
     discussed, and form a valuable source of reference to any works'
     chemist.... Our verdict is a capitally produced book, and one that
     is badly needed."--Birmingham Post. A Handbook for Manufacturers of Oil and Fat Products, Soap
and Candle Makers, Agriculturists, Tanners, Margarine Manufacturers,
etc., etc. By LOUIS EDGAR ANDÉS. Sixty-two Illustrations. 240 pp. 1898.
Demy 8vo. Price 10s. 6d.; India and Colonies, 11s.; Other Countries,
12s.; strictly net.

=Press Opinions.=

     "The descriptions of technical processes are clear, and the book is
     well illustrated and should prove useful."--Manchester Guardian.

     "It is a valuable work, not only for the student, but also for the
     practical manufacturer of oil and fat products."--Journal of the
     American Chemical Society.

     "The work is very fully illustrated, and the style throughout is in
     strong contrast to that employed in many such treatises, being
     simple and clear."--Shoe and Leather Record.

     "An important handbook for the 'fat industry,' now a large one. The
     explanation of the most scientific processes of production lose
     nothing of their clearness in the translation."--Newcastle
     Chronicle.

     "The latest and most improved forms of machinery are in all cases
     indicated, and the many advances which have been made during the
     past years in the methods of producing the more common animal
     fats--lard, tallow and butter--receive due attention."--Glasgow
     Herald. A Handbook for Oil Manufacturers and Refiners, Candle, Soap
and Lubricating Oil Makers, and the Oil and Fat Industry in General.
Translated from the German of LOUIS EDGAR ANDÉS. 94 Illustrations. 320
pp. 1897.

=Contents.=

Statistical Data. General Properties of the Vegetable Fats and Oils. Estimation of the Amount
of Oil in Seeds. Table of Vegetable Fats and Oils, with French and German Nomenclature, Source
and Origin and Percentage of Fat in the Plants from which they are Derived. The Preparation
of Vegetable Fats and Oils: Storing Oil Seeds: Cleaning the Seed. Refining with Caustic Alkalies,
Ammonia, Carbonates of the Alkalies, Lime.

=Press Opinions.=

     "Concerning that and all else within the wide and comprehensive
     connection involved, this book must be invaluable to every one
     directly or indirectly interested in the matters it treats
     of."--Commerce.

     "The proprietors of the Oil and Colourman's Journal have not only
     placed a valuable and highly interesting book of reference in the
     hands of the fats and oils industry in general, but have rendered
     no slight service to experimental and manufacturing
     chemists."--Manufacturing Chemist.

       *       *       *       *       *

=IRON-CORROSION, ANTI-FOULING AND ANTI-CORROSIVE PAINTS.= By LOUIS EDGAR ANDÉS. 62 Illustrations.
275 pp. Translated from the German. Demy 8vo. 1900.

     "Will be of great service to paint manufacturers, engineering
     contractors, ironfounders, shipbuilders and others."--Engineer and
     Iron Trades Advertiser.

     "The book before us deals with the subject in a manner at once
     practical and scientific, and is well worthy of the attention of
     all builders, architects and engineers."--The Builder.

     "The book is very readable and full of valuable information, and
     bearing in mind the importance of the subject treated, it is one
     which engineers will be well advised to procure at an early
     date."--Railway Engineer.

     "The author goes fully into his subject, and the translator has
     been successful in reproducing in another language what he has to
     say. There are given in the text numerous illustrations of the
     rusting of iron, prepared in the course of a series of personal
     experiments on the formation of rust."--Journal of Gas Lighting.

     "This work is a very elaborate and useful record of the various
     phenomena in connection with the corrosion of iron and its
     protection against corrosion.... The book is an exceedingly useful
     record of what has been done in connection with iron preservation,
     and will undoubtedly prove to be of much value to railway
     engineers, shipowners, etc."--Fairplay.

     "Herr Andés' book, written purely from a scientific standpoint,
     will be particularly useful to iron manufacturers, shipbuilders and
     shipowners.... The book is beautifully printed on good paper, and
     its appearance does credit to the publishers; the work of
     translation has been remarkably well done, the language bearing
     none of those irritating traces of Teutonism which disfigure so
     many English versions of German technical works."--The
     Ironmonger.

     "This knowledge is conveyed with characteristic German thoroughness
     in this useful work of Herr Andés, which loses nothing of clearness
     in Mr. Salter's excellent translation. The causes of rust formation
     are examined, the proper methods of cleansing the ironwork
     detailed, and the constitution and application of suitable
     preventative coverings explained.... The book is a welcome
     contribution to technological literature, and will be found worthy
     of the careful study of all who are professionally engaged in the
     arrangement or superintendence of the class of work dealt
     with."--Western Daily Mercury.

     "The author explains the nature of rust and its formation, and the
     text is illustrated from about fifty photographs. An immense amount
     of carefully arranged information follows as to the best methods of
     applying anti-corrosive substances and the various pigments most
     efficacious for use under all circumstances. The author has
     evidently thoroughly investigated and mastered the subject of iron
     corrosion, its cause and its prevention; and we regard his book as
     of the greatest importance to bridge-builders and makers and users
     of structural iron and steel. The book is illustrated throughout
     and is admirably indexed and arranged."--Iron and Steel Trades
     Journal.
1901.

Part II., =Manufacture of Aluminium Sulphates and Sulphates of Iron.=--Chapters III., Manufacture
of Aluminium Sulphate and the Alums.--IV., Manufacture of Sulphates of Iron. [In the press.

=Contents.=

Chapters I., Introduction.--II., The Atmosphere.--III., The Soil.--IV., The Reactions occurring
in Soils.--V., The Analysis of Soils.--VI., Manures, Natural.--VII., Manures (continued).--VIII.,
The Analysis of Manures.--IX., The Constituents of Plants.--X., The Plant.--XI, Crops.--XII.,
The Animal. Sixty-five Illustrations. 313 pp. Demy 8vo. 1901.

Separating Products, Treating Crude Shale Oil, Refining Shale Oil, Shale Oil Stills, Shale
Naphtha Burning Oils, Lubricating Oils, Wax.--IV., =Petroleum.= Occurrence, Geology, Origin,
Composition, Extraction, Refining, Petroleum Stills, Petroleum Products, Cylinder Oils, Russian
Petroleum, Deblooming Mineral Oils.--V., =Vegetable and Animal Oils.= Introduction, Chemical
Composition of Oils and Fats, Fatty Acids, Glycerine, Extraction of Animal and Vegetable Fats
and Oils, Animal Oils, Vegetable Oils, Rendering, Pressing, Refining, Bleaching, Tallow, Tallow
Oil, Lard Oil, Neatsfoot Oil, Palm Oil, Palm Nut Oil, Cocoa-nut Oil, Castor Oil, Olive Oil,
Rape and Colza Oils, Arachis Oil, Niger Seed Oil, Sperm Oils, Whale Oil, Seal Oil, Brown Oils,
Lardine, Thickened Rape Oil.--VI., =Testing and Adulteration of Oils.= Specific Gravity, Alkali
Tests, Sulphuric Acid Tests, Free Acids in Oils, Viscosity Tests, Flash and Fire Tests, Evaporation
Tests, Iodine and Bromide Tests, Elaidin Test, Melting Point of Fat, Testing Machines.--VII.,
=Lubricating Greases.= Rosin Oil, Anthracene Oil, Making Greases, Testing and Analysis of Greases.--VIII.,
=Lubrication.= Friction and Lubrication, Lubricant, Lubrication of Ordinary Machinery, Spontaneous
Combustion of Oils, Stainless Oils, Lubrication of Engine Cylinders, Cylinder Oils.--=Appendices.=
A. Table of Baume's Hydrometer--B. Table of Thermometric Degrees--C. Table of Specific Gravities
of Oils--=Index.=

=Press Opinions.=

     "The book is well printed, and is a credit alike to author, printer
     and publisher."--Textile Mercury.

     "It will be a valuable addition to the technical library of every
     steam user's establishment." --Machinery Market.

     "Mr. Hurst has in this work supplied a practical treatise which
     should prove of especial value to oil dealers, and also, though in
     a less degree, to oil users."--Textile Manufacturer.

     "This is a clear and concise treatment of the method of
     manufacturing and refining lubricating oils.... The book is one
     which is well worthy the attention of readers who are users of
     oil."--Textile Recorder.

     "We have no hesitation in saying that in our opinion this book
     ought to be very useful to all those who are interested in oils,
     whether as manufacturers or users of lubricants, or to those
     chemists or engineers whose duty it may be to report upon the
     suitability of the same for any particular class of
     work."--Engineer.

     "The author is widely known and highly respected as an authority on
     the chemistry of oils and the technics of lubrication, and it is
     safe to say that no work of similar interest or equal value to the
     general oil-selling and consuming public has heretofore appeared in
     the English language."--Drugs, Oils and Paints, U.S.A.

     "This valuable and useful work, which is both scientific and
     practical, has been written with a view of supplying those who deal
     in and use oils, etc., for the purpose of lubrication, with some
     information respecting the special properties of the various
     products which cause these various oils to be of value as
     lubricants."--Industries and Iron.

     "A mere glance at the table of contents is sufficient to show how
     various are the conditions to which these materials have to be
     applied, how much knowledge is required for the selection of the
     right kind for each particular purpose, and how by processes of
     mixture or manufacture the requisite qualities are obtained in each
     case."--Manchester Guardian. 113 pp.
1901. Thirty-two Illustrations. Price 5s.; India and Colonies, 5s. 6d.;
Other Countries, 6s.; strictly net.

=Contents.=

Chapters I., =General Considerations=: Sections 1. Various Sources of Ammoniacal Products;
2. Human Urine as a Source of Ammonia. II., =Extraction of Ammoniacal Products from Sewage=:
Sections 1. Preliminary Treatment of Excreta in the Settling Tanks--The Lencauchez Process,
The Bilange Process, The Kuentz Process; 2. Treatment of the Clarified Liquors for the Manufacture
of Ammonium Sulphate--The Figuera Process and Apparatus, Apparatus of Margueritte and Sourdeval,
The Lair Apparatus, Apparatus of Sintier and Muhe, Apparatus of Bilange, The Kuentz Process,
Process and Apparatus of Hennebutte and De Vauréal; 3. Treatment of Entire Sewage--Chevalet's
Apparatus, Paul Mallet's Apparatus, Lencauchez's Apparatus. III., =Extraction of Ammonia from
Gas Liquor=: Sections 1. Clarification of Gas Liquor; 2. Manufacture of Ammonium Sulphate--A.
Mallet's Apparatus, A. Mallet's Modified Apparatus, Paul Mallet's Apparatus, Chevalet's Apparatus,
Grüneberg's Apparatus; 3. Concentration of Gas Liquor--Solvay's Apparatus, Kuentz's Apparatus,
Grüneberg's Apparatus. Ammonia from Bones: 2. Ammonia from Nitrogenous Waste Materials; 3.
Ammonia from Beetroot Wash (Vinasse): 4. Ammonia from Peat--Treatment of the Ammoniacal Liquors.
V., =Manufacture of Caustic Ammonia, and Ammonium Chloride, Phosphate and Carbonate=: Sections
1. Manufacture of Caustic Ammonia; 2. Manufacture of Ammonium Chloride--From Fermented Urine,
Process of the Lesage Company, Kuentz's Process; From Gas Liquor, English Process, Kuentz's
Process; From the Dry Distillation of Animal Matter; From Ammonium Sulphate, Sublimation; 3.
Ammonium Phosphates; 4. Carbonates of Ammonium--Sesquicarbonate from Animal Matter, English
Process. Uses. VI., =Recovery of Ammonia from the Ammonia-Soda Mother Liquors=: Sections 1.
General Considerations; 2. Apparatus of Schloesing and Rolland; 3. Apparatus of the Société
Anonyme de l'Est.--=Index.=

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE MANUFACTURE OF VARNISHES, OIL REFINING AND BOILING, AND KINDRED INDUSTRIES.= Describing
the Manufacture of Spirit Varnishes and Oil Varnishes; Raw Materials: Resins, Solvents and
Colouring Principles; Drying Oils: their Properties, Applications and Preparation by both Hot
and Cold Processes; Manufacture, Employment and Testing of Different Varnishes. Translated
from the French of ACH. LIVACHE, Ingénieur Civil des Mines. Greatly Extended and Adapted to
English Practice, with numerous Original Recipes. By JOHN GEDDES MCINTOSH, Lecturer on Oils,
Colours and Varnishes, Regent Street Polytechnic. Twenty-seven Illustrations. 400 pp. Demy
8vo. 1899. Appropriate Solvents, Special Treatment, Special Use.--II. Solvents: Natural, Artificial,
Manufacture, Storage, Special Use.--III. Colouring: Principles, (1) Vegetable, (2) Coal Tar,
(3) Coloured Resinates, (4) Coloured Oleates and Linoleates.--Gum Running: Furnaces, Bridges,
Flues, Chimney Shafts, Melting Pots, Condensers, Boiling or Mixing Pans, Copper Vessels, Iron
Vessels (Cast), Iron Vessels (Wrought), Iron Vessels (Silvered), Iron Vessels (Enamelled),
Steam Superheated Plant, Hot-air Plant.--Spirit Varnish Manufacture: Cold Solution Plant, Mechanical
Agitators, Hot Solution Plant, Jacketted Pans, Mechanical Agitators, Clarification and Filtration,
Bleaching Plant, Storage Plant.--Manufacture, Characteristics and Uses of the Spirit Varnishes
yielded by: Amber, Copal, Dammar, Shellac, Mastic, Sandarac, Rosin, Asphalt, India Rubber,
Gutta Percha, Collodion, Celluloid, Resinates, Oleates.--Manufacture of Varnish Stains.--Manufacture
of Lacquers.--Manufacture of Spirit Enamels.--Analysis of Spirit Varnishes.--Physical and Chemical
Constants of Resins. --Table of Solubility of Resins in different Menstrua.--Systematic qualitative
Analysis of Resins, Hirschop's tables.--Drying Oils: Oil Crushing Plant, Oil Extraction Plant,
Individual Oils, Special Treatment of Linseed Oil, Poppyseed Oil, Walnut Oil, Hempseed Oil,
Llamantia Oil, Japanese Wood Oil, Gurjun Balsam, Climatic Influence on Seed and Oil.--Oil Refining:
Processes, Thenard's, Liebig's, Filtration, Storage, Old Tanked Oil.--Oil Boiling: Fire Boiling
Plant, Steam Boiling Plant, Hot-Air Plant, Air Pumps, Mechanical Agitators, Vincent's Process,
Hadfield's Patent, Storer's Patent, Walton's Processes, Continental Processes, Pale Boiled
Oil, Double Boiled Oil, Hartley and Blenkinsop's Process.--Driers: Manufacture, Special Individual
Use of (1) Litharge, (2) Sugar of Lead, (3) Red Lead, (4) Lead Borate, (5) Lead Linoleate,
(6) Lead Resinate, (7) Black Oxide of Manganese, (8) Manganese Acetate, (9) Manganese Borate,
(10) Manganese Resinate, (II) Manganese Linoleate, Mixed Resinates and Linoleates, Manganese
and Lead, Zinc Sulphate, Terebine, Liquid Driers.--Solidified Boiled Oil.--Manufacture of Linoleum.--Manufacture
of India Rubber Substitutes.--Printing Ink Manufacture--Lithographic Ink Manufacture.--Manufacture
of Oil Varnishes.--Running and Special Treatment of Amber, Copal, Kauri, Manilla.--Addition
of Oil to Resin.--Addition of Resin to Oil.--Mixed Processes.--Solution in Cold of previously
Fused Resin.--Dissolving Resins in Oil, etc., under pressure.--Filtration.--Clarification.--Storage.--Ageing.--Coach-makers'
Varnishes and Japans.--Oak Varnishes.--Japanners' Stoving Varnishes.--Japanners' Gold Size.--Brunswick
Black.--Various Oil Varnishes.--Oil-Varnish Stains.--Varnishes for "Enamels".-India Rubber
Varnishes.--Varnishes Analysis: Processes, Matching.--Faults in Varnishes: Cause, Prevention.--Experiments
and Exercises.

=Press Opinions.=

     "There is no question that this is a useful book."--Chemist and
     Druggist.

     "The different formulæ which are quoted appear to be far more
     'practical' than such as are usually to be found in text-books: and
     assuming that the original was published two or three years ago,
     and was only slightly behindhand in its information, the present
     volume gives a fair insight into the position of the varnish
     industry."--The Ironmonger.

     =Letter from the Teacher of a Technical Class.=

     "As a teacher I have often been consulted as to the best work on
     Varnish Manufacture and kindred industries, and have been at a loss
     in recommending a really practical one. It is therefore with
     pleasure that I can now testify as to the merits of the book on
     these subjects by A. Livache and J.G. McIntosh recently published
     by Messrs. Scott, Greenwood & Co. In my opinion no varnish maker
     ought to be without it; moreover, it is the best text-book that
     could be put into the hands of trade students or beginners. It has
     also the merits of being thoroughly up-to-date and of possessing a
     remarkably comprehensive index. I can conscientiously recommend it
     to my students and trade friends."--CHARLES HARRISON, Lecturer on
     the Manufacture of Painters' Oils, Colours and Varnishes, Borough
     Polytechnic, Borough Road, S.E.
                                                  "23rd May, 1899" 1900.

    "The practical portion of the volume is the one which will
    especially commend itself, as that is the part of the subject which
    most readers would buy the book for."--Chemist and Druggist.

    "This work just issued is a very valuable treatise on the
    manufacture of lake pigments of the coal-tar series principally.

    "This is undoubtedly a book which will occupy a very high place
    amongst technical works, and will prove of exceptional value to all
    whom it immediately concerns. We have no hesitation in recommending
    it as one of the best works of its class we have ever read. Mr.
    Jennison has set about his task with a lucid style, and with a
    complete mastery of his subject. .. We do not think students of the
    technical side of the paint and colour industry can possibly spend
    7s. 6d. in a more profitable way than by buying this
    publication."--Eastern Morning News. 1900.

=Press Opinions.=

    "Though this excellent little work can appeal only to a limited
    class, the chemists in colour works, yet it will appeal to them very
    strongly indeed, for it will put them on the track of short, rapid,
    and yet approximately, accurate methods of testing the comparative
    value of competing samples of raw material used in paint and colour
    manufacture."--North British Daily Mail.

    "This little text-book is intended to supplement the larger and more
    comprehensive works on the subject, and it embodies the result of
    Mr. Jones' experiments and experiences, extending over a long
    period. It gives, under separate headings, the principal ingredients
    and impurities found in the raw materials, and is a handy work of
    reference for ascertaining what is valuable or detrimental in the
    sample under examination."--Blackburn Times.

    "There is no attempt at literary adornment nor straining after
    literary effect, but the lessons are imparted in simple and concise
    language. This is just what a text-book should be.... The treatise
    is certainly most useful, and bears internal evidence of being the
    results of actual work in a busy manufactory and not of ephemeral
    cramming in a technical school. The chapter arrangement is good, the
    index satisfactory, and the book is altogether one which the
    practical chemist should keep as accessible to his crucibles and
    filter paper."--Manchester Courier.
400 pp. 1899. Demy 8vo.

=Press Opinions.=

     "There can be no doubt that the publication will take a high place
     in the list of scientific text-books."--London Argus

     "We can heartily recommend this volume to all interested in the
     subject of essential oils from the scientific or the commercial
     standpoint."--British and Colonial Druggist.

     "Mr. Parry has done good service in carefully collecting and
     marshalling the results of the numerous researches published in
     various parts of the world."--Pharmaceutical Journal.

     "At various times monographs have been printed by individual
     workers, but it may safely be said that Mr. Parry is the first in
     these latter days to deal with the subject in an adequate manner.
     His book is well conceived and well written.... He is known to have
     sound practical experience in analytical methods, and he has
     apparently taken pains to make himself au fait with the
     commercial aspects of the subject."--Chemist and Druggist.

     "Mr. Parry's reputation as a scientist is fully established, and we
     can therefore accept any work emanating from his pen as being of
     the greatest practical value. We have perused the work before us
     with much care, and are convinced that the contents will be found
     most serviceable and its publication most opportune.... He avoids
     unnecessary details, but includes everything that is essential to
     systematic treatment, while he attempts no more 'than to give an
     outline of the principles involved'.... We congratulate Mr. Parry
     on the scientific value of his work, and hope that if the progress
     of the colonies in the manufacture of essential oils and perfumes
     equals what we are justified in expecting, it will become an
     Australian handbook, everywhere appreciated."--The Australian
     Brewers' Journal. 360 pp. 1901. 1901. Quantity of Pure Air which is Daily Present in our
Atmosphere.--XVII., On Milk and its Acid.--XVIII., On the Acid of
Saccharum Lactis. --XIX., On the Constituent Parts of Lapis Ponderosus
or Tungsten.--XX., Experiments and Observations on Ether. Many tests are given
     for glue in different stages of the progress of its manufacture,
     and the commercial value of a commodity so much in general use is
     exemplified by statistics and figures. It is certainly a valuable
     treatise upon an article for which very little literature in any
     form has previously been obtainable."--Carpenter and Builder.

     "Books on the art of glue making are more than usually scarce, and
     users of that article, as well as those who may be tempted to
     embark in the industry, should therefore welcome this book by Dr.
     Samuel Rideal, a Fellow of the Institute of Chemistry, and a
     leading authority. In this book he has collected the more important
     facts connected with the manufacture of glue and allied products,
     and stated the experience he has gained in examining various
     commercial samples during the past ten years.... Dr. Rideal's book
     must be regarded as a valuable contribution to other technical
     literature, which manufacturers, merchants and users may study with
     profit."--British Trade Journal.

     "This volume is the latest addition to the excellent series of
     special technical works for manufacturers and professional and
     commercial men issued by the well-known publishers of The Oil and
     Colourman's Journal. The volume in every way fully maintains the
     high standard of excellence of the whole series, and deals with the
     subject of glue making and glue testing in a thoroughly exhaustive
     manner. Chapters are given on the constitution and properties, and
     raw material and manufacture, and of the uses of glue, and in this
     latter respect it will doubtless be information to many readers to
     learn to what extent glue enters into the manufacture of many
     commercial products not apparently associated with glue. Exhaustive
     chapters on the processes and methods of glue testing, and on its
     commercial aspects, complete this useful and most carefully
     prepared volume."--Carriage Builders' Journal.
Royal 8vo. 1901. Price 21s.; India and Colonies, 22s.; Other Countries,
23s. 6d.; strictly net.

=Contents.=

Part I., =Study of the Petroliferous Strata=--Chapters I., Petroleum--Definition.--II., The
Genesis or Origin of Petroleum.--III., The Oil Fields of Galicia, their History.--IV.. Physical
Geography and Geology of the Galician Oil Fields.--V.. Practical Notes on Galician Land Law--Economic
Hints on Working, etc.--VI., Roumania--History, Geography, Geology. --VII., Petroleum in Russia--History.--VIII.,
Russian Petroleum (continued)--Geography and Geology of the Caucasian Oil Fields.--IX.. Russian
Petroleum (continued).--X., The Secondary Oil Fields of Europe. Northern Germany, Alsace, Italy,
etc.--XI., Petroleum in France.--XII., Petroleum in Asia--Transcaspian and Turkestan Territory--Turkestan--Persia--British
India and Burmah--British Burmah or Lower Burmah--China--Chinese Thibet--Japan, Formosa and
Saghalien.--XIII., Petroleum in Oceania--Sumatra. Java, Borneo--Isle of Timor--Philippine Isles--New
Zealand.--XIV., The United States of America--History. --XV., Physical Geology and Geography
of the United States Oil Fields.--XVI., Canadian and other North American Oil Fields.--XVII.,
Economic Data of Work in North America. --XVIII., Petroleum in the West Indies and South America.--XIX.,
Petroleum in the French Colonies.

Part II., =Excavations.=--Chapter XX., Hand Excavation or Hand Digging of Oil Wells. Part III.,
=Methods of Boring.=--Chapters XXI., Methods of Oil-well Drilling or Boring.--XXII., Boring
Oil Wells with the Rope.--XXIII., Drilling with Rigid Rods and a Free-fall--Fabian System.--XXIV.,
Free-fall Drilling by Steam Power.--XXV., Oil-well Drilling by the Canadian System.--XXVI.,
Drilling Oil Wells on the Combined System.--XXVII., Comparison between the Combined Fauck System
and the Canadian.--XXVIII., The American System of Drilling with the Rope.--XXIX., Hydraulic
Boring with the Drill by Hand and Steam Power.--XXX., Rotary Drilling of Oil Wells, Bits, Steel-crowned
Tools, Diamond Tools--Hand Power and Steam Power--Hydraulic Sand-pumping.--XXXI., Improvements
in and different Systems of Drilling Oil Wells.

Part IV., =Accidents.=--Chapters XXXII., Boring Accidents--Methods of preventing them--Methods
of remedying them.--XXXIII., Explosives and the use of the "Torpedo"

=Contents.=

The names of the Chemicals and Raw Products are arranged in alphabetical order, and the description
of each varies in length from half to eight pages. The following are some of the articles described
and explained: Acetates--Acetic Acid--Acidimetry--Alcohol--Alum--Ammonia--Amber--Animi-- Arsenic--Beeswax--Benzol--Bichromates
of Potash and Soda--Bleaching Powder--Bone Black--Boric Acid--Brunswick Green--Cadmium Yellow--Carbonates--Carmine--Carnauba
Wax--Caustic Potash and Soda--Chrome Colours--Clay--Coal Tar Colours--Copal--Dammar--Drying
Oils--Emerald Green--Gamboge--Glue--Glycerine--Gums--Gypsum--Indian Red--Japanese Lacquer--Lac--Lakes--Lamp
Black--Lead Compounds--Linseed Oil--Magnesia--Manganese Compounds--Mica--Nitric Acid--Ochres--Orange
Lead--Orr's White--Paraffin--Prussian Blue--Rosin Oil--Sepia--Sienna--Smalts--Sodium Carbonate--Sublimed
White Lead--Sulphuric Acid--Terra Verte--Testing Pigments--Turpentine--Ultramarine--Umbers--Vermilionettes--White
Lead--Whiting--Zinc Compounds.--Appendix: Comparison of Baume Hydrometer and Specific Gravity
for Liquids Lighter than Water--Hydrometer Table for Liquids Heavier than Water--Comparison
of Temperature Degrees--Tables for Converting French Metric Weights and Measures into English--Table
of the Elements--etc., etc.--Copious Index.

=Press Opinions.=

     "This treatise will be welcomed by those interested in this
     industry who have not secured the full advantage of a course of
     scientific training."--Chemical Trade Journal.

     "In concise and lucid terms almost every ingredient used in paint
     and colour manufacture is described, together with the methods of
     testing their intrinsic and chemical value."--Pontefract Express.

     "Such a book of reference for paint, colour and varnish
     manufacturers has long been needed, and in Mr. Hurst the publishers
     have secured a compiler who is not only a well-known authority and
     expert, but who has the gift of communicating his knowledge in a
     concise and lucid form."--Manchester Courier.

     "The book is written solely for manufacturers, who, without doubt,
     will find it exceedingly practical and useful. The volume contains
     an appendix wherein is given a great many tables, etc., which
     manufacturers in the trades referred to will find of inestimable
     value "Blackburn Times. Forty-three Illustrations. 476 pp., demy
8vo. Yellow Mineral Pigments.--XII., Chrome Yellow.--XIII., Lead
Oxide Pigments.--XIV., Other Yellow Pigments.--XV., Mosaic; Gold.--XVI.,
Red Mineral Pigments.--XVII., The Manufacture of Vermilion.--XVIII.,
Antimony Vermilion.--XIX., Ferric Oxide Pigments.--XX., Other Red
Mineral Pigments.--XXI., Purple of Cassius.--XXII., Blue Mineral
Pigments. --XXIII., Ultramarine.--XXIV., Manufacture of
Ultramarine.--XXV., Blue Copper Pigments. --XXVI., Blue Cobalt
Pigments.--XXVII., Smalts.--XXVIII., Green Mineral Pigments.--XXIX.,
Emerald Green.--XXX., Verdigris.--XXXI., Chromium Oxide.--XXXII., Other
Green Chromium Pigments.--XXXIII., Green Cobalt Pigments.--XXXIV., Green
Manganese Pigments.--XXXV., Compounded Green Pigments.--XXXVI., Violet
Mineral Pigments.--XXXVII.. Brown Mineral Pigments.--XXXVIII., Brown
Decomposition Products.--XXXIX., Black Pigments.--XL., Manufacture of
Soot Pigments.--XLI., Manufacture of Lamp Black.--XLII., The Manufacture
of Soot Black without Chambers.--XLIII., Indian Ink.--XLIV., Enamel
Colours.--XLV., Metallic Pigments.--XLVI., Bronze Pigments--XLVII.,
Vegetable Bronze Pigments. 1901.

=Press Opinion.=

     "We can with confidence recommend the perusal of the book to all
     persons interested in the manufacture of artificial manures, and
     also to the large number of farmers and others who are desirous of
     working their holdings on the most up-to-date methods, and
     obtaining the best possible results, which scientific research has
     placed within their reach."--Wigan Observer.

       *       *       *       *       *

=ANALYSIS OF RESINS AND BALSAMS.= Demy 8vo.

Part II., Balsams--Introduction--Definitions--Canada Balsam--Copaiba Balsam--Angostura Copaiba
Balsam--Bahia Copaiba Balsam--Carthagena Copaiba Balsam--Maracaibo Copaiba Balsam--Maturin
Copaiba Balsam--Gurjum Copaiba Balsam--Para Copaiba Balsam--Surinam Copaiba Balsam--West African
Copaiba Balsam--Mecca Balsam--Peruvian Balsam--Tolu Balsam--Acaroid Resin--Amine--Amber--African
and West Indian Kino--Bengal Kino--Labdanum--Mastic--Pine Resin--Sandarach--Scammonium--Shellac--Storax--Adulteration
of Styrax Liquidus Crudus--Purified Storax--Styrax Crudus Colatus--Tacamahac--Thapsia Resin--Turpentine--Chios
Turpentine--Strassburg Turpentine--Turpeth Turpentine. 1901. 200 pp. 60 Illustrations and 1
Large Diagram.

Part II., Chapter V., The Grinding of White Lead.--VI., Grinding of White Zinc.--VII., Grinding
of other White Pigments.--VIII., Grinding of Oxide Paints.--IX., Grinding of Staining Colours.--X.,
Grinding of Black Paints.--XI., Grinding of Chemical Colours--Yellows.--XII., Grinding of Chemical
Colours--Blues.--XIII., Grinding Greens.--XIV., Grinding Reds.--XV., Grinding Lakes.--XVI.,
Grinding Colours in Water.--XVII., Grinding Colours in Turpentine.

Part III., Chapters XVIII., The Uses of Paint.--XIX., Testing and Matching Paints.--XX., Economic
Considerations.--Index.

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE CHEMISTRY OF PIGMENTS.= By ERNEST J. PARRY, B.Sc, F.I.C., F.C.S., and J.H. COSTE, F.I.C.,
F.C.S. [In the press.

=Contents.=

Chapters I., Introductory--Composition of White Light--Theory of Colour, etc.--II., The Application
of Pigments--Artistic, Decorative, Protective Methods of Applying Pigments.--III., White Pigments.--IV.,
Inorganic Coloured Pigments.--V., Organic Pigments. 1901. 64 pages. Price 2s. 6d.; Abroad,
3s.; strictly net.

=Contents.=

Chapters I., Definitions--Properties--Occurrence.--II., Galena--Johnstonite--Cerussite--Céruse
(White Lead)--Minium--Red Lead.-- III., Pyromorphite--Mimetene--Hediphane--Crocoise--Wulfenite.--Vanadinite--
IV., Bleiglatte--Anglesite--Caledonite--Linarite--Lanarkite--Leadhillite --Susannite--Clausthalite--Cotunnite.--V.,
Mendipite--Matlockite-- Cromfordite--Nagyagite--Altaite--Melanochroite--Vauguelinite-- Scheeletine.--VI.,
Plattnerite--Tilkerodite--Raphanosmite-- Deckenite--Descloezite--Dufrenaysite--Bleinierite--Moffrasite
--Geocronite--Kilbrechenite--Schulzite--Boulangerite--Heteromorphite-- Meneghinite--Jamesonite--Plagionite--Zinkenite.--VII.,
Kobellite-- Bournonite--Selenkupferblei--Nussierite--Percylite--Wolchite-- Polysphracrite--Miesite.--Index.

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE RISKS AND DANGERS OF VARIOUS OCCUPATIONS AND THEIR PREVENTION.= By LEONARD A. PARRY, M.D.,
B.S. (Lond.). 196 pp., demy 8vo.

This book contains valuable information for the following trades--Aerated Water Manufacture,
Alkali Manufacture, Aniline Manufacture, Barometer Making, Brass Founders, Bromine Manufacture,
Bronze Moulders, Brush Making, Builders, Cabinet Makers, Calico Printing, Chloride of Lime
Manufacture, Coal Miners, Cocoa-nut Fibre Making, Colour Grinders, Copper Miners, Cotton Goods
Manufacture, Cotton Yarn Dyeing, Cutlery Trades, Dry Cleaning, Electricity Generating, Electroplaters,
Explosives Manufacture, File Making, Flint Milling, Floor Cloth Makers, Furriers, Fustian Clothing
Making, Galvanised Iron Manufacture, Gassing Process, Gilders, Glass Making, Glass Paper Making,
Glass Polishing and Cutting, Grinding Processes, Gunpowder Manufacturing, Gutta-percha Manufacture,
Hat Makers, Hemp Manufacture, Horn Goods Making, Horse-hair Making, Hydrochloric Acid Manufacture,
India-rubber Manufacture, Iodine Manufacture, Ivory Goods Making, Jewellers, Jute Manufacture,
Knife Grinders, Knife Handle Makers, Lace Makers, Lacquering, Lead Melters, Lead Miners, Leather
Making, Linen Manufacture Linoleum Making, Lithographic Printing and Bronzing, Lithographing,
Masons, Match Manufacture, Melanite Making, Mirror Making, Needle Grinders, Needle Making,
Nitro-benzole Making, Nitro-glycerine Making, Paint Makers, Paper Making, Philosophical Instrument
Makers, Photographers, Pieric Acid Making, Portland Cement Making, Pottery Manufacture, Printers,
Quicksilver Mining, Rag Pickers, Razor Grinders, Red Lead Making, Rope Making, Sand Paper Making,
Saw Grinders, Scissors Grinders, Shoddy Manufacture, Shot Making, Silk Making, Silver Mining,
Skinners, Slag, Wood Manufacture, Steel Makers, Steel Pen Making, Stereotypers, Stone Masons,
Straw Hat Makers, Sulphuric Acid Manufacture, Sweeps, Table-knife Grinders, Tanners, Telegraphists,
Textile Industries, Tin Miners, Turners, Type Founders, Umbrella Makers, Wall Paper Making,
White Lead Making, Wood Working, Woollen Manufacture, Wool Sorters, Zinc Oxide Manufacture.
Zinc Working, etc., etc.

=Press Opinions.=

     "The language used is quite simple, and can be understood by any
     intelligent person engaged in the trades dealt with."--The
     Clarion.

     "This is an appalling book. It shows that there is scarcely a trade
     or occupation that has not a risk or a danger attached to
     it."--Local Government Journal.

     "Dr. Parry has not only pointed out the 'risks and dangers of
     various occupations': he has suggested means for their prevention.
     The work is primarily a practical one."--Colliery Manager.

     "This is a most useful book which should be in the hands of all
     employers of labour, foremen, and intelligent workmen, and is one
     of great utility to sanitary inspectors, and even on occasion to
     medical men."--Health.

     "The writer has succeeded in collecting a large amount of
     information, and though one could wish he had presented it in a
     rather more attractive style, he has certainly condensed it into a
     very small space."--Physician and Surgeon.

     "The little book before us is one which will be found exceedingly
     useful to manufacturers and even factory inspectors.... No attempt
     is made to show how diseases when originated are to be cured, but,
     acting on the sound principle that prevention is better than cure,
     means are stated how to avoid the harm."--Bristol Mercury.

     "The author has endeavoured to treat the question in simple rather
     than in technical language, and he has lucidly catalogued the most
     dangerous trades and their symptoms, and in each case specified the
     best methods of dealing with them.... To those for whom the volume
     is specially designed, Dr. Parry's treatise should be a useful
     handbook."--Sheffield Independent.

     "A very useful manual for employers of labour, foremen, intelligent
     workmen, and, in spite of the author's modesty, for medical men. We
     have the peculiar risks and dangers of all the dangerous trades
     carefully described; the mode of action of various chemicals, etc.,
     used in different industries given, with full directions how to
     minimise unavoidable risks."--Leeds Mercury.

     "Most of the trades in the country are alluded to, and upon those
     that are dangerous the necessary attention is bestowed, and means
     are recommended whereby danger may be prevented or lessened. The
     author has evidently studied his subject with care, and has made
     full use of the experience of others who have had a larger insight
     into the industries of the country."--British Medical Journal.

     "The work is well written and printed, and its verbiage such as to
     be comprehensible to the workman no less than to the master. The
     careful and general perusal of a work of this nature cannot but be
     attended by beneficial results of a far-reaching nature, and we
     therefore heartily recommend the book to our readers. Medical
     Officers of Health and Sanitary Inspectors especially should find
     the work of great interest."--Sanitary Record.

     "It is written in simple language, and its instructions can be
     easily followed.... There are some employers, at any rate, who are
     more ignorant of, than indifferent to, the slow murder of their
     workpeople, and if the facts so succinctly set forth in this book
     were brought to their notice, and if the Trade Unions made it their
     business to insist on the observance of the better conditions Dr.
     Parry described, much might be done to lessen the workman's
     peril."--Weekly Times and Echo. 12 Plates from Photographs of X Ray Work. 52
Illustrations.

Part II., =Apparatus and its Management=--Chapters I., Electrical Terms.--II., Sources of Electricity.--III.,
Induction Coils.--IV., Electrostatic Machines.--V., Tubes.--VI., Air Pumps.--VII., Tube Holders
and Stereoscopic Apparatus.--VIII., Fluorescent Screens. Two Diagrams and Thirteen Tables.
Demy 8vo. 1901. By H.C. STANDAGE.

     "This is a valuable collection of practical receipts and working
     formulæ for the use of those engaged in the manipulation of
     leather. We have no hesitation in recommending it as one of the
     best books of its kind, an opinion which will be endorsed by those
     to whom it appeals."--Liverpool Mercury.

     "We think we may venture to state, so far as the opinion of the
     leather trade under the Southern Cross is concerned, that it will
     be one of approval. As practical men, having a long and wide
     experience of the leather trade in Australia, we are certain that
     there are many tanners and curriers carrying on business in remote
     townships of the colonies to whom such a manual of practical
     recipes will be invaluable.... This manual is not a mere collection
     of recipes for the various purposes to which they may be applied,
     but it is also replete with instructions concerning the nature of
     the materials recommended to be used in making up the recipes....
     We think every intelligent leather man should avail himself of the
     manual. It is undoubtedly a valuable contribution to the technology
     of the leather trade."--Australian Leather Journal and Boot and
     Shoe Recorder.

       *       *       *       *       *

=PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE LEATHER INDUSTRY.= By A.M. VILLON. A Translation of Villon's "Traité
Pratique de la Fabrication des cuirs et du Travail des Peaux". 1901. 123 Illustrations.

Part II., =Tanning=--Chapter I., The Installation of a Tannary: I., Tan Furnaces; II., Chimneys,
Boilers, etc.; III., Steam Engines--Chapter II., Grinding and Trituration of Tanning Substances:
I., Cutting up Bark: II., Grinding Bark; III., The Grinding of Tan Woods; IV., Powdering Fruit,
Galls and Grains; V., Notes on the Grinding of Bark--Chapter III., Manufacture of Sole Leather:
I., Soaking; II., Sweating and Unhairing; III., Plumping and Colouring; IV., Handling; V.,
Tanning; VI., Tanning Elephants' Hides; VII., Drying; VIII., Striking or Pinning--Chapter IV.,
Manufacture of Dressing Leather: I., Soaking; II., Depilation; III., New Processes for the
Depilation of Skins; IV., Tanning; V., Cow Hides; VI., Horse Hides; VII., Goat Skins; Manufacture
of Split Hides--Chapter V., On Various Methods of Tanning: I., Mechanical Methods; II., Physical
Methods; III., Chemical Methods; IV., Tanning with Extracts--Chapter VI., Quantity and Quality:
I., Quantity; II., Net Cost; III., Quality of Leather--Chapter VII., Various Manipulations
of Tanned Leather: I., Second Tanning; II., Grease Stains: III., Bleaching Leather; IV., Waterproofing
Leather; V., Weighting Tanned Leather; VI., Preservation of Leather--Chapter VIII., Tanning
Various Skins.

Appendix, =The World's Commerce in Leather=--I., Europe; II., America; III., Asia; IV., Africa;
Australasia--Index.

=Press Opinions.=

    "The book is well and lucidly written. The writer is evidently a
    practical man, who also has taken the trouble to make himself
    acquainted with the scientific and technical side of his trade ...
    French methods differ largely from our own: sometimes we think our
    ways the best, but not always. The practical man may pick up many
    useful hints which may help him to improve his methods." --Shoe
    Manufacturers' Monthly Journal.

    "This book cannot fail to be of great value to all engaged in the
    leather trades ... The British may believe that the French can teach
    them nothing in the work of leather tanning generally, but a
    comparison of the methods of the two countries will certainly yield
    a few wrinkles which may lead to advantageous results. Only a man
    understanding the science and technique of the trade could have
    written the book, and it is well done." --Midland Free Press.

    "Gives much useful and interesting information concerning the
    various processes by which the skins of animals are converted into
    leather. Written by a French Chemist after five years of constant
    study and application: it shows all that detail of analysis which we
    are accustomed to find in scientists, and which the practical tanner
    is too much in the habit of ignoring, sometimes to his own loss."
    --Leeds Mercury.

    "Nor can there be much doubt that this expectation will be fully
    justified by the result. Thanks to the conspicuous painstaking with
    which Mr. Addyman has discharged his duty, and the 123 illustrations
    by which the text is elucidated, the volume can hardly fail to prove
    a very valuable standard work of its class. It can thus be
    confidently recommended to all who are more or less practically
    interested in the technology of a very important subject."--Leicester
    Post.

    "This is, in every respect, an altogether admirable, practical,
    clear and lucid treatise on the various and numerous branches of the
    great leather industry, of which it deals in an exhaustive, highly
    intelligent, workmanlike and scientific manner ... It is a handsome
    addition to every man's knowledge of his trade, whether he be a
    leading director of a large public company, or an industrious
    employee in the works, wishing to improve his services by the
    addition of his brains to his work." --Shoe and Leather Trader.

    "M. Villon writes as one having a very full knowledge of all
    branches of the subject, and in days when foreign competition has
    enforced on English manufacturers the importance of no longer being
    content with rule-of-thumb methods which have come down to them from
    their forefathers it certainly should be worth the while of English
    tanners to see what lessons they can learn from French practice, and
    French practice, we should imagine, could hardly have a better
    exponent than the author of this large volume." --Western Daily
    Press and Bristol Times.

    "At a time when all or nearly all our British industries are to a
    greater or less extent hampered by the pressure of continental and
    American competition, any hints that can be obtained as to the
    methods pursued by competitors must necessarily be of value ... That
    it will be of interest and value, not merely to English tanners, but
    to those associated with many kindred industrial branches, goes
    without saying ... As a work of reference the volume will be
    extremely useful in the trade, and where leisure affords sufficient
    opportunity a careful perusal and study of it would afford ample
    reward." --Kettering Guardian.

    "This is a very handsomely got up and elaborate work just issued by
    this well-known technical book-publishing firm ... When we say that
    the work consists of over 500 large pages with about 120
    illustrations, and almost innumerable tables, it will be seen at
    once that we cannot attempt anything like an exhaustive resume of
    its contents, and even if we did the details would be of little
    interest to our general readers, while those who are engaged in the
    leather industry will probably obtain the book for themselves--at
    least they would do well to do so.... Altogether the 'Treatise' has
    evidently been very carefully prepared, and by a man who thoroughly
    knows the subject, and hence it will be a very valuable technical
    book for English firms and workers.'--Walsall Observer. Third Edition.
200 pp. 1901. Price 17s. 6d.; India and Colonies, 18s. 6d.; Other
Countries, 20s.; strictly net. British
manufacturers have kept up the quality of this glass from the arrivals
of the Venetians to Hungry Hill, Stourbridge, up to the present time.
The book also contains remarks as to the result of the metal as it left
the pots by the respective metal mixers, taken from their own memoranda
upon the originals. 1900. Price for United Kingdom, 10s. 6d.; Abroad.
15s.; United States, 84; strictly net.

       *       *       *       *       *

=COLOURING AND DECORATION OF CERAMIC WARE.= By ALEX. BRONGNIART. With Notes and Additions by
ALPHONSE SALVETAT. Translated from the French. 200 pp. 1898.

       *       *       *       *       *

=HOW TO ANALYSE CLAY.= Practical Methods for Practical Men. By HOLDEN M. ASHBY, Professor of
Organic Chemistry, Harvey Medical College, U.S.A. Twenty Illustrations. 1898. By LEON LOUVRE.
1900. Translated from the French by K. H. BIRD, M.A., and W. MOORE BINNS. Price 15s.; India
and Colonies, 16s.; Other Countries, 17s. 6d.; strictly net.

=Contents.=

Part I. =Plain Undecorated Pottery.=--Chapter I., Clays: § 1, Classification, General Geological
Remarks.--Classification, Origin, Locality; § 2, General Properties and Composition: Physical
Properties, Contraction, Analysis, Influence of Various Substances on the Properties of Clays;
§ 3, Working of Clay-Pits--I. Open Pits: Extraction, Transport, Cost--II. Underground Pits--Mining
Laws. Chapter II., Preparation of the Clay: Weathering, Mixing, Cleaning, Crushing and Pulverising--Crushing
Cylinders and Mills, Pounding Machines--Damping: Damping Machines--Soaking, Shortening, Pugging:
Horse and Steam Pug-Mills, Rolling Cylinders--Particulars of the Above Machines. Chapter III.,
Bricks: § 1, Manufacture--(1) Hand and Machine Moulding,--I. Machines Working by Compression:
on Soft Clay, on Semi-Firm Clay, on Firm Clay, on Dry Clay.--II. Expression Machines: with
Cylindrical Propellers, with Screw Propellers--Dies--Cutting-tables--Particulars of the Above
Machines--General Remarks on the Choice of Machines--Types of Installations--Estimates--Plenishing,
Hand and Steam Presses, Particulars--(2) Drying, by Exposure to Air, Without Shelter, and Under
Sheds--Drying-rooms in Tiers, Closed Drying-rooms, in Tunnels, in Galleries--Detailed Estimates
of the Various Drying-rooms, Comparison of Prices--Transport from the Machines to the Drying-rooms,
Barrows, Trucks, Plain or with Shelves, Lifts--(3) Firing--I. In Clamps--II. In Intermittent
Kilns. A, Open: a, using Wood; b Coal; b´, in Clamps; b´´, Flame--B, Closed: c, Direct Flame;
c´, Rectangular; c´´, Round; d, Reverberatory--III. Continuous Kilns: C, with Solid Fuel: Round
Kiln, Rectangular Kiln, Chimneys (Plans and Estimates)--D, With Gas Fuel, Fillard Kiln (Plans
and Estimates), Schneider Kiln (Plans and Estimates), Water-gas Kiln--Heat Production of the
Kilns; § 2, Dimensions, Shapes, Colours, Decoration, and Quality of Bricks--Hollow Bricks,
Dimensions and Prices of Bricks, Various Shapes, Qualities--Various Hollow Bricks, Dimensions,
Resistance, Qualities; § 3, Applications --History--Asia, Africa, America, Europe: Greek, Roman,
Byzantine, Turkish, Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, Architecture--Architecture of the Nineteenth
Century: in Germany, England, Belgium, Spain, Holland, France, America--Use of Bricks--Walls,
Arches, Pavements, Flues, Cornices--Facing with Coloured Bricks--Balustrades. Chapter IV.,
Tiles: § 1, History; § 2, Manufacture--(1) Moulding, by Hand, by Machinery: Preparation of
the Clay, Soft Paste, Firm Paste, Hard Paste--Preparation of the Slabs, Transformation into
Flat Tiles, into Jointed Tiles--Screw, Cam and Revolver Presses--Particulars of Tile-presses--(2)
Drying--Planchettes, Shelves, Drying-barrows and Trucks--(3) Firing--Divided Kilns--Installation
of Mechanical Tileworks--Estimates; § 3, Shapes, Dimensions and Uses of the Principal Types
of Tile--Ancient Tiles: Flat, Round, Roman, Flemish--Modern Tiles--With Vertical Interrupted
Join: Gilardoni's, Martin's; Hooked, Boulet's Villa; with Vertical Continuous Join: Muller's,
Alsace, Pantile--Foreign Tiles--Special Tiles--Ridge Tiles, Coping Tiles, Border Tiles, Frontons,
Gutters, Antefixes, Membron, Angular--Roofing Accessories: Chimney-pots, Mitrons, Lanterns,
Chimneys--Qualities of Tiles--Black Tiles--Stoneware Tiles--Particulars of Tiles. Chapter V.,
Pipes: I. Conduit Pipes--Manufacture--Moulding: Horizontal Machines, Vertical Machines, Worked
by Hand and Steam--Particulars of these Machines--Drying--Firing--II. Chimney Flues--Ventiducts
and "Boisseaux," "Waggons"--Particulars of these Products. Chapter VI., Quarries: 1, Plain
Quarries of Ordinary Clay; 2, of Cleaned Clay--Machines, Cutting, Mixing, Polishing--Drying
and Firing--Applications--Particulars of Quarries. Chapter VII., Terra-cotta: History--Manufacture--Application:
Balustrades, Columns, Pilasters, Capitals, Friezes, Frontons, Medallions, Panels, Rose-windows,
Ceilings--Appendix: Official Methods of Testing Terra-cottas.

Part II. =Made-up or Decorated Pottery.=--Chapter I., General Remarks on the Decoration of
Pottery: Dips--Glazes: Composition, Colouring, Preparation, Harmony with Pastes--Special Processes
of Decoration--Enamels, Opaque, Transparent, Colours, Underglaze, Overglaze--Other Processes:
Crackling, Mottled, Flashing, Metallic Iridescence, Lustres. Chapter II., Glazed and Enamelled
Bricks--History: Glazing--Enamelling--Applications: Ordinary Enamelled Bricks, Glazed Stoneware,
Enamelled Stoneware--Enamelled Tiles. Chapter III., Decorated Quarries: I. Paving Quarries--1,
Decorated with Dips--2, Stoneware: A, Fired to Stoneware: a, of Slag Base--Applications; b,
of Melting Clay--Applications--B, Plain or Incrusted Stoneware; a, of Special Clay (Stoke-on-Trent)--Manufacture--Application--b,
of Felspar Base--Colouring, Manufacture, Moulding, Drying, Firing--Applications.--II. Facing
Quarries--1, in Faience--A, of Limestone Paste--B, of Silicious Paste--C, of Felspar Paste--Manufacture,
Firing--2, of Glazed Stoneware--3, of Porcelain--Applications of Facing Quarries.--III. Stove
Quarries--Preparation of the Pastes, Moulding, Firing, Enamelling, Decoration--Applications--Faiences
for Fireplaces. Chapter IV., Architectural Decorated Pottery: § 1, Faiences; § 2, Stoneware;
§ 3, Porcelain. Chapter V., Sanitary Pottery: Stoneware Pipes: Manufacture, Firing--Applications--Sinks--Applications--Urinals,
Seats and Pans--Applications--Drinking-fountains, Washstands. 1901. Second Edition. 1900.

=Contents.=

Tools and Materials Required--Wire Used for Rivets--Soldering Solution--Preparation for Drilling--Commencement
of Drilling--Cementing--Preliminaries to Riveting--Rivets to Make--To Fix the Rivets--Through-and-through
Rivets--Soldering--Tinning a Soldering-iron--Perforated Plates, Handles, etc.--Handles of Ewers,
etc.--Vases and Comports--Marble and Alabaster Ware--Decorating--How to Loosen Fast Decanter
Stoppers--China Cements. 132 pp. Crown 8vo. Price 3s. 6d.; India and Colonies, 4s.; Other Countries,
4s. 6d.; strictly net. On the Basis of Personal Practical Experience of the Condition of the
Art up to Date. 1897. Firing Colours on Porcelain; 2, The Muffle.--XI., Accidents occasionally
Supervening during the Process of Firing.--XII., Remarks on the Different Methods of Painting
on Glass, Porcelain, etc.--Appendix: Cleaning Old Glass Paintings.

=Press Opinions.=

     "Mr. Hermann, by a careful division of his subject, avoids much
     repetition, yet makes sufficiently clear what is necessary to be
     known in each art. He gives very many formulæ; and his hints on the
     various applications of metals and metallic lustres to glass and
     porcelains will be found of much interest to the amateur."--Art
     Amateur, New York.

     "For the unskilled and amateurs the name of the publishers will be
     sufficient guarantee for the utility and excellence of Mr.
     Hermann's work, even if they are already unacquainted with the
     author.... The whole cannot fail to be both of service and interest
     to glass workers and to potters generally, especially those
     employed upon high-class work."--Staffordshire Sentinel.

     "In Painting on Glass and Porcelain the author has dealt very
     exhaustively with the technical as distinguished from the artistic
     side of his subject, the work being entirely devoted to the
     preparation of the colours, their application and firing. For
     manufacturers and students it will be a valuable work, and the
     recipes which appear on almost every page form a very valuable
     feature. The author has gained much of his experience in the
     celebrated Sevres manufactory, a fact which adds a good deal of
     authority to the work."--Builders Journal.

     "The compiler displays that painstaking research characteristic of
     his nation, and goes at length into the question of the chemical
     constitution of the pigments and fluxes to be used in
     glass-painting, proceeding afterwards to a description of the
     methods of producing coloured glass of all tints and shades....
     Very careful instructions are given for the chemical and mechanical
     preparation of the colours used in glass-staining and
     porcelain-painting; indeed, to the china painter such a book as
     this should be of permanent value, as the author claims to have
     tested and verified every recipe he includes, and the volume also
     comprises a section devoted to enamels both opaque and translucent,
     and another treating of the firing of porcelain, and the accidents
     that occasionally supervene in the furnace."--Daily Chronicle.

    "Copies of the original work are now of considerable value, and the
    facsimile reprint now issued cannot but prove of considerable
    interest to all interested in the great industry."--Derby Mercury.

    "The book will be especially welcomed at a time when interest in the
    art of pottery manufacture commands a more widespread and general
    interest than at any previous time."--Wolverhampton Chronicle.

    "This work is all the more valuable because it gives one an idea of
    the condition of affairs existing in the north of Staffordshire
    before the great increase in work and population due to modern
    developments."--Western Morning News.

    "The History gives a graphic picture of North Staffordshire at the
    end of the last and the beginning of the present century, and states
    that in 1829 there was 'a busy and enterprising community' in the
    Potteries of fifty thousand persons.... We commend it to our readers
    as a most entertaining and instructive publication,"--Staffordshire
    Sentinel. Royal 8vo. Price 14s.;
India and Colonies, 15s.; Other Countries, 16s. 6d.; strictly net.

=Contents.=

PART I., ANALYSIS AND MATERIALS.--Chapters I., =Introduction:= Laboratory and Apparatus; =Elements:=
Combinative Potencies, Manipulative Processes for Analysis and Reagents, Pulverisation, Blow-pipe
Analysis, Humid Analysis, Preparatory Manipulations, General Analytic Processes, Compounds
Soluble in Water, Compounds Soluble only in Acids, Compounds (Mixed) Soluble in Water, Compounds
(Mixed) Soluble in Acids, Compounds (Mixed) Insoluble, Particular Analytic Processes.--II.,
=Temperature:= Coal, Steam Heat for Printers' Stoves.--III., =Acids and Alkalies:= Boracic
Acid, Muriatic Acid, Nitric Acid, Sulphuric Acid, Potash, Soda, Lithia, Calculation of Chemical
Separations.--IV., =The Earths:= Alumine, Clays, Silica, Flint, Lime, Plaster of Paris, Magnesia,
Barytes, Felspar, Grauen (or China Stone), China Clay, Chert.--V., =Metals:= Reciprocal Combinative
Potencies of the Metals, Antimony, Arsenic, Chromium, Green Oxide, Cobalt, Chromic Acid, Humid
Separation of Nickel from Cobalt, Arsenite of Cobalt, Copper, Gold, Iron, Lead, Manganese,
Platinum, Silver, Tin, Zinc.

PART II., SYNTHESIS AND COMPOUNDS.--Chapters I., Sketch of the Origin and Progress of the Art.--II.,
=Science of Mixing:= Scientific Principles of the Manufacture, Combinative Potencies of the
Earths.--III., =Bodies:= Porcelain--Hard, Porcelain--Fritted Bodies, Porcelain--Raw Bodies,
Porcelain--Soft, Fritted Bodies, Raw Bodies, Stone Bodies, Ironstone, Dry Bodies, Chemical
Utensils, Fritted Jasper, Fritted Pearl, Fritted Drab, Raw Chemical Utensils, Raw Stone, Raw
Jasper, Raw Pearl, Raw Mortar, Raw Drab, Raw Brown, Raw Fawn, Raw Cane, Raw Red Porous, Raw
Egyptian, Earthenware, Queen's Ware, Cream Colour, Blue and Fancy Printed, Dipped and Mocha,
Chalky, Rings, Stilts, etc.--IV., =Glazes:= Porcelain--Hard Fritted, Porcelain--Soft Fritted,
Porcelain--Soft Raw, Cream Colour Porcelain, Blue Printed Porcelain, Fritted Glazes, Analysis
of Fritt, Analysis of Glaze, Coloured Glazes, Dips, Smears and Washes: =Glasses:= Flint Glass,
Coloured Glasses, Artificial Garnet, Artificial Emerald, Artificial Amethyst, Artificial Sapphire,
Artificial Opal, Plate Glass, Crown Glass, Broad Glass, Bottle Glass, Phosphoric Glass, British
Steel Glass, Glass-Staining and Painting, Engraving on Glass, Dr. Faraday's Experiments.--V.,
=Colours:= Colour Making, Fluxes or Solvents, Components of the Colours: Reds, etc., from Gold,
Carmine or Rose Colour, Purple, Reds, etc., from Iron, Blues, Yellows, Greens, Blacks, White,
Silver for Burnishing, Gold for Burnishing, Printer's Oil, Lustres.

PART III., TABLES OF THE CHARACTERISTICS OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES.--Preliminary Remarks, Oxygen
(Tables), Sulphur and its Compounds, Nitrogen ditto, Chlorine ditto, Bromine ditto, Iodine
ditto, Fluorine ditto, Phosphorous ditto, Boron ditto, Carbon ditto, Hydrogen ditto, Observations,
Ammonium and its Compounds (Tables), Thorium ditto, Zirconium ditto, Aluminium ditto, Yttrium
ditto, Glucinum ditto, Magnesium ditto, Calcium ditto, Strontium ditto, Barium ditto, Lithium
ditto, Sodium and its Compounds Potassium ditto, Observations, Selenium and its Compounds (Tables),
Arsenic ditto, Chromium ditto, Vanadium ditto, Molybdenum ditto, Tungsten ditto, Antimony ditto,
Tellurium ditto, Tantalum ditto, Titanium ditto, Silicium ditto, Osmium ditto, Gold ditto,
Iridium ditto, Rhodium ditto, Platinum ditto, Palladium ditto, Mercury ditto, Silver ditto,
Copper ditto, Uranium ditto, Bismuth and its Compounds, Tin ditto, Lead ditto, Cerium ditto,
Cobalt ditto, Nickel ditto, Iron ditto, Cadmium ditto, Zinc ditto, Manganese ditto, Observations,
Isomorphous Groups, Isomeric ditto, Metameric ditto, Polymeric ditto, Index.

=Press Opinions.=

"This interesting volume has been kept from the pencil of the modern editor and reprinted in
its entirety by the enterprising publishers of The Pottery Gazette and other trade journals....
There is an excellent historical sketch of the origin and progress of the art of pottery which
shows the intimate knowledge of classical as well as (the then) modern scientific literature
possessed by the late Dr. Shaw; even the etymology of many of the Staffordshire place-names
is given."--Glasgow Herald.

"The historical sketch of the origin and progress of pottery is very interesting and instructive.
The science of mixing is a problem of great importance, and the query how the natural products,
alumina and silica can be compounded to form the best wares may be solved by the aid of chemistry
instead of by guesses, as was formerly the case. This portion of the book may be most suggestive
to the manufacturer, as also the chapters devoted to the subject of glazes, glasses and colours."--Birmingham
Post.

"Messrs. Scott, Greenwood & Co. are doing their best to place before the pottery trades some
really good books, likely to aid the Staffordshire manufacturers, and their spirited enterprise
is worthy of encouragement, for the utility of technical literature bearing upon the practical
side of potting goes without saying.... They are to be congratulated on their enterprise in
republishing it, and we can only hope that they will meet with the support they deserve. It
seems to be a volume that is worth looking through by both manufacturers and operatives alike,
and all local institutions, at any rate, should secure copies."--Staffordshire Sentinel. Price
15s.; India and Colonies, 16s.; Other Countries, 20s.; strictly net. Limited edition. Artificial
Mineral Colours: Iron Buff; Manganese Bronze: Chrome Yellow (Chromate of Lead): Chrome Orange
(Basic Chromate of Lead): Red Lead; Chrome Green: Blue with Yellow Prussiate: Prussian Blue:
Method for Producing Prussian Blue free from Acid: Ultramarine--2. Natural Mineral Colours
(Earth Colours): Yellow Earth Colours: Red Earth Colours; Brown Earth Colours; Green, Grey
and Black Earth Colours: White Earth Colours: White Clay (China Clay): White Gypsum; Baryta:
Magnesium Carbonate: Talc, Soapstone.--V., =Organic Colours=--1. Colours of Vegetable and Animal
Origin: (a) Substantive (Direct Dyeing) Colouring Matters: Annatto; Turmeric: Safflower; (b)
Adjective (Indirect Dyeing) Colouring Matters: Redwood; Cochineal; Weld: Persian Berries; Fustic
Extract; Quercitron: Catechu (Cutch); Logwood Extract--2. Artificial Organic (Coal Tar) Colours:
Acid Colours; Basic Colours: Substantive (Direct Dyeing) Colours; Dissolving of the Coal Tar
Colours: Auramine O O; Naphthol Yellow S O; Quinoline Yellow O: Metanil Yellow O: Paper Yellow
O: Azoflavine RS O, S O; Cotton Yellow G X X and R X X: Orange 11 O: Chrysoidine A O O, RL
O O: Vesuvine Extra O O; Vesuvine BC O O; Fast.

=Press Opinions.=

     "The book is one that is of value to every one connected with the
     colouring of paper."--Paper Trade Journal.

     "The great feature of the volume is undoubtedly the series of
     actual patterns of dyed papers, 157 in all--twelve of which, made
     in England, have been added to the original German series. Detailed
     formulæ are given for the preparation of the pulp for each, and the
     tints of the samples practically form a key, by means of which the
     accuracy of the student's or practitioner's experiments can be
     tested.... On the whole the publication is one of distinct
     importance to the trade, and will no doubt speedily become a
     standard work of reference amongst papermakers, both in the 'lab.'
     and the office, as well as being an excellent text-book for the use
     of students in the increasing number of technical institutes in
     which papermaking is taught."--World's Paper Trade Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Enamelling on Metal.=

       *       *       *       *       *

=ENAMELS AND ENAMELLING.= An Introduction to the Preparation and Application of all Kinds of
Enamels for Technical and Artistic Purposes.

=Press Opinions.=

     "Should prove of great service to all who are either engaged in or
     interested in the art of enamelling."--Jewellers and Watchmakers'
     Trade Advertiser.

     "I must inform you that this is the best book ever I have come
     across on enamels, and it is worth double its cost."--J. MINCHIN,
     Jr., Porto, Portugal, 22nd July, 1900.

     "This is a very useful and thoroughly practical treatise, and deals
     with every branch of the enameller's art. The manufacture of
     enamels of various colours and the methods of their application are
     described in detail. Besides the commoner enamelling processes,
     some of the more important special branches of the business, such
     as cloisonne work are dealt with. The work is well got up, and the
     illustrations of apparatus are well executed. The translator is
     evidently a man well acquainted both with the German language and
     the subject-matter of the book."--Invention.

    "This is a most welcome volume, and one for which we have long
    waited in this country. For years we have been teaching design
    applied to enamelling as well as to several other crafts, but we
    have not risen to the scientific side of the question. Here is a
    handbook dealing with the composition and making of enamels for
    application to metals for the most part, but also for other allied
    purposes. It is written in a thoroughly practical way , and its author--Paul Randau--has made
    its subject a very particular study. The  almost all things which come from the German
    chemical expert, is a model of good workmanship  and arrangement, and no one who is in search
    of a handbook to enamelling,  whether he is a craftsman producing his beautiful
    translucent colours on gold, silver and copper, or the hollow-ware
    manufacturer making enamelled saucepans and kettles, can wish for a
    more useful practical manual."--Birmingham Gazette.

=Press Opinion.=

     "The information conveyed in The Art of Enamelling on Metal is as
     complete as can be expected in a manual of ordinary length, and is
     quite ample in all respects to start students in a most interesting
     branch of decorative art. All necessary requisites are fully
     described and illustrated, and the work is one, indeed, which any
     one may pursue with interest, for those who are interested
     artistically in enamels are a numerous body."--Hardware Metals and
     Machinery.

=Press Opinions.=

     "It would be well if our English manufacturers would avail
     themselves of this important addition to the extensive list of
     German publications which, by the spread of technical information,
     contribute in no small degree to the success, and sometimes to the
     supremacy, of Germany in almost every branch of textile
     manufacture."--Manchester Courier.

     "This is probably the most exhaustive book published in English on
     the subject dealt with.... We have great confidence in recommending
     the purchase of this book by all manufacturers of textile goods of
     whatever kind, and are convinced that the concise and direct way in
     which it is written, which has been admirably conserved by the
     translator, renders it peculiarly adapted for the use of English
     readers."--Textile Recorder.

     "A careful study of this book enables one to say with certainty
     that it is a standard work on the subject. Its importance is
     enhanced greatly by the probability that we have here, for the
     first time in our own language, in one volume, a full, accurate,
     and detailed account, by a practical expert, of the best technical
     methods for the testing of textile materials, whether in the raw
     state or in the more or less finished product."--Glasgow Herald.

     "The author has endeavoured to collect and arrange in systematic
     form for the first time all the data relating to both physical and
     chemical tests as used throughout the whole of the textile
     industry, so that not only the commercial and textile chemist, who
     has frequently to reply to questions on these matters, but also the
     practical manufacturer of textiles and his subordinates, whether in
     spinning, weaving, dyeing, and finishing, are catered for.... The
     book is profusely illustrated, and the subjects of these
     illustrations are clearly described."--Textile Manufacturer.

       *       *       *       *       *

=DECORATIVE AND FANCY TEXTILE FABRICS.=

With Designs and Illustrations. By R.T. LORD. 6d.; strictly net.

=Contents.=

Chapters I., A Few Hints on Designing Ornamental Textile Fabrics.--II., A Few Hints on Designing
Ornamental Textile Fabrics (continued).--III., A Few Hints on Designing Ornamental Textile
Fabrics (continued).--IV., A Few Hints on Designing Ornamental Textile Fabrics (continued).--V.,
Hints for Ruled-paper Draughtsmen.--VI., The Jacquard Machine.--VII., Brussels and Wilton Carpets.--VIII.,
Tapestry Carpets.--IX., Ingrain Carpets.--X., Axminster Carpets.--XI., Damask and Tapestry
Fabrics.--XII., Scarf Silks and Ribbons.--XIII., Silk Handkerchiefs.--XIV., Dress Fabrics.--XV.,
Mantle Cloths.--XVI., Figured Plush.--XVII., Bed Quilts.--XVIII., Calico Printing.

=Press Opinions.=

     "The book can be strongly recommended to students and practical
     men."--Textile Colourist.

     "Those engaged in the designing of dress, mantle tapestry, carpet
     and other ornamental textiles will find this volume a useful work
     of reference."--Leeds Mercury.

     "The book is to be commended as a model manual, appearing at an
     opportune time, since every day is making known a growing desire
     for development in British industrial art."--Dundee Advertiser.

     "Designers especially, who desire to make progress in their
     calling, will do well to take the hints thrown out in the first
     four chapters on 'Designing Ornamental Textile Fabrics'."--Nottingham
     Daily Guardian. An Auxiliary and Text-book for Pupils of Weaving
Schools, as well as for Self-Instruction and for General Use by those
engaged in the Weaving Industry.

     "The work has been clearly translated from the German and published
     with suitable illustrations.... The author has dealt very
     practically with the subject."--Bradford Daily Telegraph.

     "The book, which contains a number of useful coloured diagrams,
     should prove invaluable to the student, and its handy form will
     enable it to become a companion more than some cumbrous work."
     --Cotton Factory Times.

     "The book has been prepared with great care, and is most usefully
     illustrated. It is a capital text-book for use in the weaving
     schools or for self-instruction, while all engaged in the weaving
     industry will find its suggestions helpful."--Northern Daily
     Telegraph.

     "The various systems are treated in a careful manner; also the
     different looms and their manufacture, as well as the whole
     processes of the work. Yarn numbering according to various systems,
     with conversion tables and numerous coloured diagrams, materially
     assist to a clear comprehension of the subject."--Northern Whig.

     "The 'inside' managers of our textile mills in which the work is
     complex or greatly varied, and where yarns of different materials
     are in use, will find this work convenient for reference in case of
     novelty or difficulty. We may also say the same in relation to the
     textile student. Its description of the parts of the loom and their
     functions will be of use to the latter, being of the most
     elementary kind."--Textile Mercury.

     "The author attempts to fill a gap in weaving literature caused by
     the neglect of many obscure points connected with the industry. A
     short review is given of the power-loom as a whole, followed by a
     description of the different parts of the machinery with their
     advantages and defects.... The book is severely technical, but must
     on that account be very valuable to the pupil who is determined to
     master this industrial art."--Cheshire County News.

     "It is clear and concise, and gives just that knowledge in quality
     and amount which any student of the weaving industry ought to
     consider as a minimum necessary for his thorough comprehension of
     his future profession. The handiness and variety of the information
     comprised in Section III., dealing with the numbering and reeling
     of yarns employed in the various systems in different countries,
     struck us as particularly useful."--North British Daily Mail.

     "This work brings before weavers who are actually engaged in the
     various branches of fabrics, as well as the technical student, the
     different parts of the general run of power-looms in such a manner
     that the parts of the loom and their bearing to each other can be
     readily understood.... The work should prove of much value, as it
     is in every sense practical, and is put before the reader in such a
     clear manner that it can be easily understood."--Textile Industries.

     "The book under notice is intended as an instructor to those
     engaged in power-loom weaving, and, judging by its compilation, the
     author is a thorough master of the craft. It is not overloaded with
     details, and he manages to compress in a book of some 150 pages all
     that one can possibly wish to know about the different parts of the
     machinery, whether of English or foreign make, and for whatever
     kind of cloth required. A comprehensive summary is also included of
     the various yarns and methods of numbering them, as well as a few
     useful hints and a number of coloured diagrams for mandarin
     weavings. The book is printed in bold, legible type, on good paper,
     has a copious index, and is well and strongly
     bound."--Ashton-under-Lyne Herald.

     "In dealing with the complicated parts of various classes of
     power-looms, the writer, who is one of the professors at the Royal
     Weaving School of Asch, brings to the work a thorough knowledge of
     the subject, and, what is of great value, he has the gift of
     communicating his knowledge in a way which is easily understood.
     The smallest details of loom-setting are entered into, and a full
     explanation of problems, which are a source of anxiety to many
     engaged in overlooking, is given. Students will find the work an
     admirable text-book, and all who are interested in weaving will see
     in it a valuable addition to the literature on this subject.... The
     book is in small compass, and is crowded with valuable
     information."--Bradford Observer.
Contrast of Colours, Modification of Colours by Contrast, Colour
Contrast in Decorative Design.--VI., =Colour in Decoration and Design.=
Colour Harmonies, Colour Equivalents, Illumination and Colour, Colour
and Textile Fabrics, Surface Structure and Colour.--VII., =Measurement
of Colour.= Colour Patch Method, The Tintometer, Chromometer.

=Press Opinions.=

     "This useful little book possesses considerable merit, and will be
     of great utility to those for whom it is primarily
     intended."--Birmingham Post.

     "It will be found to be of direct service to the majority of dyers,
     calico printers and colour mixers, to whom we confidently recommend
     it."--Chemical Trade Journal.

     "It is thoroughly practical, and gives in simple language the why
     and wherefore of the many colour phenomena which perplex the dyer
     and the colourist."--Dyer and Calico Printer.

     "We have found the book very interesting, and can recommend it to
     all who wish to master the different aspects of colour theory, with
     a view to a practical application of the knowledge so
     gained."--Chemist and Druggist.

     "Mr. Hurst's Handbook on the Theory of Colour will be found
     extremely useful, not only to the art student, but also to the
     craftsman, whose business it is to manipulate pigments and
     dyes."--Nottingham Daily Guardian.
Cotton Spinning:= Bale Breakers--Carding--Combing--Roving--Mule
Frames--Yarn Testing--Humidifiers.

=Press Opinions.=

    "The book is worthy the attention of the trade."--Worcester
    Herald.

    "The treatise is arranged with great care, and follows the processes
    described in a manner at once clear and convincing."--Glasgow
    Record.

    "A most useful manual dealing in an intelligible and interesting
    manner with the colour printing of carpet yarns."--Kidderminster
    Times.

    "An eminent expert himself, the author has evidently strained every
    effort in order to make his work the standard guide of its
    class."--Leicester Post.

    "The book, which is admirably printed and illustrated, should fulfil
    the need of a practical guide in the colour printing of carpet
    yarns.--Nottingham Express.

    "The subject is very exhaustively treated in all its branches....
    The work, which is very well illustrated with designs, machines, and
    wool fibres, will be a useful addition to our textile
    literature."--Northern Whig.

    "It gives an account of its subject which is both valuable and
    instructive in itself, and likely to be all the more welcome because
    books dealing with textile fabrics usually have little or nothing to
    say about this way of decorating them."--Scotsman.

    "The work shows a thorough grasp of the leading characteristics as
    well as the minutiae of the industry, and gives a lucid description
    of its chief departments.... As a text-book in technical schools
    where this branch of industrial education is taught, the book is
    valuable, or it may be perused with pleasure as well as profit by
    any one having an interest in textile industries."--Dundee
    Courier.

    "The book bears every mark of an extensive practical knowledge of
    the subject in all its bearings, and supplies a real want in
    technical literature. Chapters IX. and X., on the science of colour
    mixing and colour matching respectively, are especially good, and
    we do not remember to have seen the bearing of various kinds of
    light, and of the changes from one kind of light to another on the
    work of the colourist, so well treated elsewhere."--Dyer and Calico
    Printer.

    "It is thoroughly practical, and contains much information which has
    not hitherto appeared in book form. It is pleasing to note that the
    practical part is not crowded out with purely 'practical recipes'. A
    few typical examples are given, and the rest is left to the common
    sense and judgment of the printer or works' chemist. Another
    pleasing feature is the accounts given here and there of the
    author's own researches on the subject. The work will be of interest
    to printers of wool generally, and to those engaged in the dyeing of
    this fibre."--Journal of the Society of Dyers and Colourists. Chapter II. Steeping.
Chapter III. Washing: Its End and Importance--Roller Washing
Machines--Wash Wheel (Dash Wheel)--Stocks or Wash Mill--Squeezing.
Chapter IV. Lye Boiling--Lye Boiling with Milk of Lime--Lye Boiling with
Soda Lyes--Description of Lye Boiling Keirs--Operations of Lye
Boiling--Concentration of Lyes. Chapter V. Mather and Platt's
Keir--Description of the Keir--Saturation of the Fabrics--Alkali used in
Lye Boiling--Examples of Processes. Chapter VI. Soap--Action of Soap in
Bleaching--Quality and Quantity of Soaps to use in the Lye--Soap Lyes or
Scalds--Soap Scouring Stocks. Chapter VII. Bleaching on Grass or on the
Bleaching Green or Lawn. Chapter VIII. Chemicking--Remarks on Chlorides
and their Decolourising Action--Chemicking
Cisterns--Chemicking--Strengths, etc. Chapter IX. Sours--Properties of
the Acids--Effects Produced by Acids--Souring Cisterns. Chapter X.
Drying--Drying by Steam--Drying by Hot Air--Drying by Air. Chapter XI.
Damages to Fabrics in Bleaching--Yarn Mildew--Fermentation--Iron Rust
Spots--Spots from Contact with Wood--Spots incurred on the Bleaching
Green--Damages arising from the Machines. Chapter XII. Examples of
Methods used in Bleaching--Linen--Cotton. Chapter XIII. The Valuation of
Caustic and Carbonated Alkali (Soda) and General Information Regarding
these Bodies--Object of Alkalimetry--Titration of Carbonate of
Soda--Comparative Table of Different Degrees of Alkalimetrical
Strength--Five Problems relative to Carbonate of Soda --Caustic Soda,
its Properties and Uses--Mixtures of Carbonated and Caustic Alkali--Note
on a Process of Manufacturing Caustic Soda and Mixtures of Caustic and
Carbonated Alkali (soda). Chapter XIV. Chlorometry--Titration--Wagner's
Chlorometric Method--Preparation of Standard Solutions--Apparatus for
Chlorine Valuation--Alkali in Excess in Decolourising Chlorides. Chapter
XV. Chlorine and Decolourising Chlorides--Synopsis--Chlorine--Chloride
of Lime--Hypochlorite of Soda--Brochoki's Chlorozone--Various
Decolourising Hypochlorites--Comparison of Chloride of Lime and
Hypochlorite of Soda. Chapter XVI. Water--Qualities of
Water--Hardness--Dervaux's Purifier--Testing the Purified
Water--Different Plant for Purification--Filters. Chapter XVII.
Bleaching of Yarn--Weight of Yarn--Lye
Boiling--Chemicking--Washing--Bleaching of Cotton Yarn. Chapter XVIII.
The Installation of a Bleach Works--Water Supply--Steam Boilers--Steam
Distribution Pipes--Engines--Keirs--Washing Machines--Stocks--Wash
Wheels--Chemicking and Souring Cisterns--Various--Buildings. Chapter
XIX. Addenda--Energy of Decolourising Chlorides and Bleaching by
Electricity and Ozone--Energy of Decolourising
Chlorides--Chlorides--Production of Chlorine and Hypochlorites by
Electrolysis--Lunge's Process for increasing the intensity of the
Bleaching Power of Chloride of Lime--Trilfer's Process for Removing the
Excess of Lime or Soda from Decolourising Chlorides--Bleaching by Ozone.

     "The volume, which is clearly and popularly written, should prove
     of the utmost service to all who are concerned with the practical
     use of colours, whether as dyers or painters."--Scotsman.

     "To the practical colourist, and also to technical students, Mr.
     Paterson's new work will be very welcome. We are often asked to
     recommend books on different subjects, and have no hesitation in
     advising the purchase of the present volume by dyers and calico
     printers, as containing a mass of most useful information at a
     nominal price."--Irish Textile Journal.

     "Mr. Paterson's work not only clearly deals with the theory of
     colour, but supplies lucid directions for the practical application
     of the theory. His work will be found exceedingly helpful, not only
     to the practical colourist, but also to students in our textile
     colleges, by forming a useful complement to their class lectures.
     There are several exquisitely coloured plates and a large number of
     other illustrations of theory and practice in colour blending, and
     also a series of plates with specimens of dyed fabrics attached, in
     explication of the author's views."--Wakefield Express.

     "Mr. Paterson has little to say upon the experimental aspect or on
     its æsthetics, but much upon the theory of colour, especially as it
     bears upon the question--an all-important one to dyers, calico
     printers and artists, who have to produce such a variety of shades
     and tints--of the admixture of one colour upon another.... The
     author is a dyer, and in his concluding chapters keeps well before
     him the special wants and requirements of dyers. He writes
     pleasantly and lucidly, and there is no difficulty in following
     him, although here and there a lapse into ambiguousness occurs. The
     book is well printed, generously supplied with coloured plates,
     very nicely if not brightly got up; and the dyed patterns at the
     end enhance the value of the book to the dyer."--Textile Mercury.

     "For some time the proprietors of The Oil and Colourman's Journal
     have been engaged in the publication of a series of practical
     handbooks intended for the use of those interested in certain
     branches of technology, and the present volume is the latest
     addition to their list. The feature which the works have in
     common--and it is an all-important one in treatises of this
     sort--is their eminently practical character. The primary aim of
     the publishers is to provide scientific text-books which will be
     helpful to those who are either actively engaged in the practice of
     the arts in question, or who are studying with that immediate end
     in view.... Mr. Paterson speaks with that assured knowledge of an
     expert, and in the present volume, as in that which he has already
     contributed to the same series, he sets forth the true foundation
     of the art of colouring in a manner at once comprehensive and
     judicious.... For dyers, calico printers and colourists in general,
     whose desire it is to work with accuracy in their respective
     branches, the treatise will prove an invaluable guide-book,
     provided the principles and methods it describes are studied with
     intelligence and care. To this end, every encouragement has been
     given that well-chosen examples, carefully executed plates and
     diagrams, and an exhaustive index can supply."--Glasgow Herald. Demy 8vo. =Dyeing Wool:=
IV., Of Blue.--V., Of the Pastel Vat--Directions for the Proper
Management of the Vat--Indications when the Vat has Suffered by too much
or too little Lime, the two extremes which ought carefully to be
avoided--The Preparations of Indigo for the Pastel Vat.--VI., Of the
Woad Vat.--VII., Of the Indigo Vat.--VIII., Of the Cold Indigo Vat with
Urine--A Hot Indigo Vat with Urine--To Reheat a Urine Vat.--IX., A Cold
Indigo Vat without Urine. --X., Of the Method of Dyeing Blue.--XI., Of
Red.--XII., Of Scarlet in Grain, or Venetian Scarlet.--XIII., Of Fire
Scarlet.--XIV., Of Crimson.--XV., Of Gum Lac Scarlet.--XVI., Of the
Coccus polonicus, a Colouring Insect.--XVII., Of Madder Red.--XVIII.,
Of Yellow.--XIX., Of Brown or Fawn Colour.--XX., Of Black.--XXI., Of the
Colours obtained from a Mixture of Blue and Red.--XXII., Of the Mixture
of Blue and Yellow.--XXIII., Of the Mixture of Blue and Fawn
Colour.--XXIV., Of the Mixture of Blue and Black.--XXV., Of the Mixture
of Red and Yellow.--XXVI., Of the Mixture of Red and Fawn.--XXVII., Of
the Mixture of Red and Black.--XXVIII., Of the Mixture of Yellow and
Fawn Colours.--XXIX., Of the Mixture of Yellow and Black.--XXX., Of the
Mixture of Fawn Colour and Black.--XXXI., Of the Principal Mixtures of
the Primitive Colours by Three and Three.--XXXII., The Method of
Blending Wool of Different Colours for mixed Cloth or Stuffs.--XXXIII.,
The Method of Preparing Felts for Trial.--XXXIV., The Method of Dyeing
Woollens False Colours.--XXXV., Of Flock or Goats' Hair.--XXXVI., Of
Archil, and the Method of Using It.--XXXVII., Of Logwood.--XXXVIII., Of
Brazil Wood.--XXXIX., Of Fustic--XL., Roucou.--XLI., Of French Berries.
--XLII., Of Turmeric.--XLIII., Instructions for the Proof Liquor for
Wool and Woollen Stuffs.

Part II., =The Art of Dyeing Silk:= Ungumming and Boiling for White.--For Boiling of Silks
Intended to be Dyed.--Observations on Ungumming and Boiling.--Of White.--Of Whitening.--Sulphuring.
--Observations on Whitening and Sulphuring.--Of Aluming.--Remarks on Aluming.--Of Blue.--Remarks
on the Blue of Indigo.--Of Yellow.--Remarks on Yellow.--Aurora, Orange, Mordore, Gold Colour
and Chamois.--Red and Crimson.--Remarks on Crimson.--Of False Crimson or the Red of Brazil.--Remarks
on the Red, or Crimson of Brazil Wood.--Of Scarlet, Orange, Red and Cherry Colour.--Preparation
of the Carthamus or Bastard Saffron.--Remarks on the Dye of Carthamus or Bastard Saffron.--Of
the False Poppy or Fire Colour Produced with Brazil Wood.--False Rose Colour.--Of Green. --Remarks.--Of
Olives.--Remarks.--Of Violet.--Of Fine Violet, or Violet in Grain.--Of False or Common Violets
or Lilac.--Of the Violet of Logwood.--Remarks.--Violet of Logwood and Verdigris.--Violets of
Brazil and Logwood.--Remarks.--Violets from Brazil Wood and Archil. --Of Purple, Gillyflower,
and of Fine Cochineal or Purple.--Of False Purple.--Of Maroons, Cinnamons and White Lees.--Remarks.--Of
Nut Greys. Thorn Greys, Black and Iron Greys and others of the same Species.--Of Black.--Softening
of Black.--Black in the Raw.--Remarks on Black.--Particular Process Communicated by M. Hellot.--Genoa
Crimson, a Process Proved in May, 1743.--Violet Crimson of Italy.--Half Violet.--Genoa Black
for Velvets. Crown 8vo. 1901. Price 3s.; Abroad, 3s. 6d.; strictly net.

       *       *       *       *       *

=COTTON SPINNING= (Intermediate, or Second Year). By THOMAS THORNLEY. 180 pp. 70 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo. 1901. Price 5s.; India and British Colonies, 5s. 6d.; Other Countries, 6s.; strictly
net. The Schwann Respiratory Apparatus. The Fleuss Respiratory Apparatus. The Improved Walcher-Gärtner
Pneumatophor, (a) The Single Bottle Apparatus, Instructions for using the Pneumatophor, Taking
to Pieces and Resetting the Apparatus ready for Use; (b) Two Bottle Apparatus (Shamrock Type).
Dam Work in the Fiery Pits of Southern Hungary: (a) Cross-dams of Clay; (b) Masonry Dams, Gallery
Linings. Wagner's Portable Safety Dam. Vertical Advance. Mayer System.

=Illustrations.=

Sheet I., =Respiratory and Rescue Appliances--Precautions against Fire.= Figs. 1, Smoke Helmet;
2, Muller's Smoke Helmet; 3, Low-pressure Respiration Apparatus; 4, High-pressure Respiration
Apparatus; 5, The Stolz Mask for Rescue Work: 6, Precautions against Fire.--Sheet II., =Respiratory
and Rescue Apparatus.= Figs. 1, Recovery Work with Muller's Smoke Helmet after a Fire: 2-8,
The Fleuss Respiration Apparatus: 9, The Walcher-Gärtner Pneumatophor: 10-12, Pneumatophor
(Shamrock Type).--Sheet III., =Respiratory and Rescue Apparatus--Stretchers.= Figs. 1-8, Rescue
Apparatus manufactured by O. Neupert's Successor (Mayer-Pilar System); 1, Front View; 2, Section
through Bag and Mask; 3, Rear View: 4, Apparatus and Mask laid out Flat (view from above);
5, Apparatus and Mask laid out Flat (view from below): 6, Locking Device for Closing Bag; 7,
Apparatus Complete, Mounted for Rescue Work; 8, Improved Valve in the Respiration Tubes; 9-12,
=Stretchers.= Fig. 9, Stretcher Covered with Brown Canvas: 10, Stretcher Covered with Brown
Canvas, fitted with Adjustable Head-rest: 11, Folding Stretcher Covered with Brown Canvas;
12, Rupprecht's Stretcher Covered with Brown Canvas; 13, Dr. Rühlmann's Stretcher.--Sheet IV.,
=Dams.= Figs. 1-7, R. Wagners Portable Safety Dam.--Sheet V., =Signalling Appliances --Dam
Construction--Cable Laying.= Figs. 1-3, Signalling Appliances: 1, Small Induction Apparatus
for Pit Work; 2, Bell Signal for Pit Work; 3, Pit Telephone; 4-18, =Dam Construction;= 4, 5,
Upright Timber Dam; 6, 7, Timber Dam with Wooden Door; 8, 9, Dome-shaped Dams; 10,11, Dome-shaped
Dam with Iron Door; 12,13, The Wenker and Berninghaus Locking Device for Dam Doors; 14-17,
Dam Construction: 18, Damming a Gallery Lined with Iron: 19, Support for Cable.--Sheet VI.,
=Working with Diving Gear in Irrespirable Gases--Gallery Work.= Figs. 1-4, Air-Lock Work (Mayer
System); 5-7. Air-Lock (Mauerhofer's Modification of the Mayer System); 8-11, Construction
of Dams at the Pluto Shaft.--Sheet VII., =Working with Diving Gear in Irrespirable Gases (Mayer
System)--Appliances in the Shaft.= Figs. 1, 2, Sections of Shaft and Air Apparatus; 3, Salzmann
Reducing Valve for Reserve Air Supply; 4,5, L. v. Bremen's Respiration Apparatus with Karwin
Reserve Appliance: 6, Cross Section of the Franziska Shaft; 7, Method of Supplying Air to Main
Pipe and Winding same on Drum; 8, Clamp.

=Press Opinions.=

    "A work of this extremely valuable character deserves to be made
    widely known amongst colliery managers and mining engineers at home
    and abroad."--Coal and Iron.

    "This book is, in a manner, unique. The literature of mining
    accidents is fairly extensive, but it consists largely of
    departmental Blue Books."--Sheffield Daily Telegraph.

    "A concise and lucid description of the principal methods pursued,
    especially in fiery mines, and of the various appliances employed,
    such as respiratory and rescue apparatus, dams, etc."--Staffs
    Advertiser.

    "The prevention of spontaneous combustion in collieries and the
    extinction of underground fires are duties that fall heavily on many
    colliery managers. They should, therefore, welcome this translation
    of Mr. Lamprecht's German treatise."--Ironmonger.

    "The book under notice supplies the needed full description,
    drawings, and mode of using these new appliances in actual fires,
    and should be studied by every colliery manager, seeing that even
    our best managed collieries have not been free from fires, more or
    less disastrous to life and property.--Colliery Manager. 46
Illustrations. 190 pp. 1901. 1901. Translated from the German. With 103 Illustrations. It is
    exceedingly well printed and illustrated."--Chemical Trade
    Journal.

    "The book will appeal with force to the manufacturer as well as to
    the technical student, whilst it is also of far more than average
    interest to the general reader."--Halifax Guardian.

    "The importance that gas and coal dust firing have attained of
    recent years, and especially the great interest attaching of late to
    the question of coal dust firing, makes the appearance of the
    present volume most opportune."--Iron and Coal Trades Review.

    "The German author has long followed the development of various
    systems of gas firing, and in the present treatise he discusses the
    merits of appliances patented since 1885. His text and the numerous
    illustrations indispensable to it will be found useful by all who
    are engaged in practical work in the same field."--North British
    Daily Mail. 270 pp. Demy 8vo. 1896.

=Press Opinions.=

    "This is an eminently practical and well-illustrated volume on the
    management of external lead work."--Birmingham Daily Post.

    "It is thoroughly practical, containing many valuable hints, and
    cannot fail to be of great benefit to those who have not had large
    experience."--Sanitary Journal.

    "Works on sanitary plumbing are by no means rare, but treatises
    dealing with external plumbing work are sufficiently scarce to
    ensure for Mr. Hart's new publication a hearty reception."--The
    Ironmonger.

    "With Mr. Harts treatise in his hands the young plumber need not be
    afraid of tackling outside work. He would do well to study its pages
    at leisure, so that he may be ready for it when called
    upon."--Ironmongery.

    "The papers are eminently practical, and go much farther into the
    mysteries they describe than the title 'Hints' properly
    suggests."--Scotsman.

    "The articles are apparently written by a thoroughly practical man.
    As a practical guide the book will doubtless be of much
    service."--Glasgow Herald.

    "So far as the practical hints in this work are concerned, it will
    be useful to apprentices and students in technical schools, as it
    deals mainly with the most important or difficult branches of the
    plumber's craft, viz., joint wiping, pipe bending and lead
    burning.... 'Hints' are the most useful things to an apprentice, and
    there are many in this work which are not to be found in some of the
    text-books."--English Mechanic.

    22 PRYME STREET, HULL, 24th November, 1894. "Gentlemen,--Your
    books to hand for which accept my best thanks, also for circulars. I
    myself got one of J.W. Hart's books on Plumbing from your traveller,
    and having looked through the same I can safely recommend it as
    being the best book I have seen. Mr. J.W. Hart treats exhaustively
    upon soldering and pipe bending, which are two of the most essential
    branches in the plumbing trade." 1900. Price
2s.; Abroad, 2s. 6d.; strictly net.

=Contents.= Chapters I., Cleansing and Dipping; Boiling up and Cleansing: Dipping.--II., Scratch-brushing
and Burnishing; Polishing; Burnishing.--III., Lacquering; Tools; Lacquers.--IV., Bronzing;
Black Bronzing; Florentine Red Bronzing; Green Bronzing.--Index.

=Press Opinions.=

    "Mr. Brown is clearly a master of his craft, and has also the
    immense advantage of being able to convey his instructions in a
    manner at once clear and concise."--Leicester Post.

    "A thoroughly practical little treatise on the subject in all its
    branches, and one which should be in the hands of every tradesman or
    amateur who has lacquering to do."--Irish Builder.

       *       *       *       *       *

=WORKSHOP WRINKLES= for Decorators, Painters, Paperhangers and Others. By W.N. BROWN. Crown
8vo. 128 pp. 1901. Arranged in alphabetical order. 1900.

=Contents.= Chapters I., Tools and Appliances.--II., Colours and Their Harmony.--III., Pigments
and Media.--IV., Pigments and Media.--V., Pigments and Media.--VI., Pigments and Media.--VII.,
Preparation of Work, etc.--VIII., Application of Ordinary Colour.--IX., Graining.--X., Graining.--XI.,
Graining.--XII., Gilding.--XIII., Writing and Lettering.--XIV., Sign Painting.--XV., Internal
Decoration.--Index.

=Press Opinion.= "The author is evidently very thoroughly at home in regard to the technical
subjects he has set himself to elucidate, from the mechanical rather than the artistic point
of view, although the matter of correctness of taste is by no means ignored. Mr. Brown's style
is directness itself, and there is no tyro in the painting trade, however mentally ungifted,
who could fail to carry away a clearer grasp of the details of the subject after going over
the performance."--Building Industries. 1900.

=Press Opinion.=

    "In the course of a hundred pages with some forty illustrations Mr.
    Brown gives a very interesting and comprehensive survey of the
    progress and development of decorative art. It cannot, of course, be
    pretended that in the limited space named the subject is treated
    exhaustively and in full detail, but it is sufficiently complete to
    satisfy any ordinary reader; indeed, for general purposes, it is,
    perhaps, more acceptable than a more elaborate treatise."--Midland
    Counties Herald. Price 2s. net. [Ready.

=Contents.= A Few Words on Enamelling--Appliances and Apparatus--Japans
or Enamels--To Test Enamel for Lead--Japanning or Enamelling
Metals--Japanning Tin, such as Tea Trays, and similar Goods--Enamelling
Old Work--Enamel for Cast Iron--Enamel for Copper Cooking Utensils--The
Enamelling Stove--Enamelling Bedsteads, Frames and similar large
pieces--Paints and Varnishes for Metallic Surfaces--Varnishes for
Ironwork--Blacking for Iron--Processes for Tin
Plating--Galvanising--Metal Polishes--Colours for Polished Brass--A
Golden Varnish for Metal--Painting on Zinc--Carriage Varnish--Japanese
Varnish and its Application.--Index. 1900. No
    doubt the majority of householders know or care little about the
    subject, but any one who wishes to adopt the most up-to-date system
    of supplying hot water throughout his house will be able to do so if
    he reads Mr. Hart's book and follows the instruction given. It is a
    work that all who have charge of domestic water supply should study.
    It is a practical and profitable book."--Wigar Observer. 1900. Early
August Hops; 2. Medium Early Hops; 3. Late Hops.--Injuries to Growth:
Malformations; Diseases Produced by Conditions of Soil and Climate: 1.
Leaves Turning Yellow, 2. Summer or Sun-brand, 3. Cones Dropping Off, 4.
Honey Dew, 5. PART V.--Statistics of Production.--The Hop
Trade.--Index.

=Press Opinions.=

    "The subject is dealt with fully in every little detail;
    consequently, even the veriest tyro can take away some useful
    information from its pages."--Irish Farming World.

    "Farmers are but little given to reading; but nowadays brewers have
    to study their trade and keep abreast of its every aspect, and as
    far as regards our trade, to them this book especially appeals, and
    will be especially useful."--Licensed Victuallers' Gazette.

    "Like an oasis in the desert comes a volume upon the above subject,
    by the Professor at the Higher Agricultural College,
    Tetschen-Liebwerd, Germany, who has been fortunate enough to obtain
    an excellent translator from the German in the person of Mr. Charles
    Salter. The paucity of works upon the history and cultivation of
    hops is surprising considering the scope it gives for an interesting
    and useful work."--Hereford Times.

    "We can safely say that this book deals more comprehensively and
    thoroughly with the subject of hops than any work previously
    published in this country.... No one interested in the hop industry
    can fail to extract a large amount of information from Professor
    Gross's pages, which, although primarily intended for Continental
    readers, yet bear very closely on what may be termed the
    cosmopolitan aspects of the science of hop production."--South
    Eastern Gazette.

    "This is, in our opinion, the most scholarly and exhaustive treatise
    on the subject of hops, their culture and preservation, etc., that
    has been published, and to the hop grower especially will its
    information and recommendations prove valuable. Brewers, too, will
    find the chapter devoted to 'Judging the Value of Hops' full of
    useful hints, while the whole scope and tenor of the book bear
    testimony to the studious and careful manner in which its contents
    have been elaborated."--Brewers' Journal.

    "Considering the extent to which this country draws its hop supplies
    from abroad, this translation of Professor Gross's volume will prove
    an interesting and instructive addition to the library of any brewer
    or brewers' chemist, the more so as the work of translation has been
    admirably carried out in simple and vigorous English.... The volume
    is one of a valuable series of special technical works for trades
    and professions the publishers are issuing, and is the first so far
    dealing with the brewing industry."--Burton Mail.

    "A work upon the above subject must be welcomed if for no other
    reason than the dearth of books dealing with so interesting a theme,
    but fortunately apart from this the book will afford excellent
    reading to all interested in hops and their culture. Professor Gross
    takes one over the whole field, by commencing with the earliest
    history of the plant--so far back as the days of ancient Greece--and
    from both practical, theoretical and scientific standpoints, deals
    with the cultivation, classification and formation of the hop.... In
    speaking of the production of new varieties sound information is
    given, and should be of value to those who are always in search of
    improvements."--Hereford Journal.

    "This work is, without doubt, the most thorough and extensive
    compilation on hops ever yet offered to the public, and for this
    reason should be warmly welcomed and appreciated by men interested
    in the subject. Although primarily written for those engaged in the
    industry abroad, and mainly Continental in theory and practice, it
    nevertheless appeals to those connected with the hop growing and
    brewing business in England, not only by way of a comparison, but
    also as an instruction. The volume is at once practical and
    scientific, is well got up, and teems with illustrations and
    statistics. In a word, it is a book that should find its way into
    the hands of all who are occupied in hop production and distribution
    at home; and it also contains valuable information and suggestions
    for the brewers themselves."--Brewers' Guardian.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Public Libraries.=

       *       *       *       *       *

=BRITISH LIBRARY YEAR BOOK, 1900-1901.= A Record of Library Progress and Work. 54 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, 345 pp. 1900. Edited by THOMAS GREENWOOD. Price 3s.; abroad, 3s. 6d.; strictly net.

=Contents.= Notes for Library Committees. Contributed Articles: The Library Rate. Some Points
in Library Planning--Mr. Burgoyne. Library Classification--Mr. Jast. Developments in Library
Cataloguing--Mr. Quinn. Children and Public Libraries--Mr. Ballinger. Fire Prevention and Insurance--Mr.
Davis. The Educational Work of the Library Association--Mr. Roberts. The Library Assistants'
Association--Mr. Chambers. British Municipal Libraries established under the various Public
Libraries or Special Acts, and those supported out of Municipal Funds giving particulars of
Establishment, Organisation, Staff, Methods and Librarians. Table showing the Rate, Income,
Work and Hours of the Rate-supported Libraries. Statistical Abstracts. British non-Municipal
Libraries, Endowed, Collegiate, Proprietary and others, showing date of Establishment, number
of Volumes, Particulars of Administration, and Librarians. Library Associations and Kindred
Societies.

=Press Opinions.=

    "This is a handbook which tells the reader everything about public
    libraries, great and small, in the United Kingdom.... The book is
    decidedly one of the best arranged volumes ever published, and there
    is no doubt that the editor has been at great pains to obtain the
    latest and most accurate information from all places. County,
    district and parish councils, ministers of religion, and
    schoolmasters everywhere should make themselves acquainted with its
    contents. Its perusal cannot fail to serve the ends of the library
    movement. The illustrations, of which there is a large number, are
    very good."--Western (Cardiff) Mail.

       *       *       *       *       *

WORKS IN PREPARATION.

       *       *       *       *       *

=PRINCIPLES OF SIDEROLOGY= (The Science of Iron). Translated from the German of HANKS FREIHERR
v. ZÜPTNER.

=STAINED GLASS= (Ancient and Modern) and =FRET LEAD GLAZING.= By E.R. SUFFLING.

=TREATISE ON CLOTH FINISHING.= By ROBERT BEAUMONT, of Yorkshire College, Leeds.

=INDIA-RUBBER; GUTTA PERCHA.=

=EVAPORATION, CONDENSATION AND COOLING.= Calculations of Dimensions of Apparatus. By E. HAUSBRAND.
Tables. For Chemists, Chemical and Mechanical Engineers.

=THE CHEMICAL TECHNOLOGY OF TEXTILE FIBRES.= Spinning, Washing,
Bleaching, Dyeing, Printing and Finishing. By Dr. G. von GEORGIEVICS.
                                                    [In the Press.

=WEAVING MACHINERY.= Three Vols. By HARRY NISBET.

=COLOUR TERMS: THEIR PROPER USE AND MEANING.= By DAVID PATERSON.

=LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS.= By THOS. LAMBERT.

=COTTON COMBERS AND THE COMBING PROCESS.= By THOS. THORNLEY.
                                                  [In the Press.

=TIMBER.= Its Physical and Chemical Properties, Description, Distribution throughout the World,
Forests, Preservation of Timber, and Applications. From the French of Paul Charpentier. 179
Illustrations. About 500 pp.

=USE OF WATER IN THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS.= Composition--Influences--Residual Water--Purification--Analysis.
From the French of H. de la Coux. 135 Illustrations. [In the Press.

       *       *       *       *       *

=HANDY GUIDES TO THE CHOICE OF BOOKS.=

       *       *       *       *       *

Vol. I. =PROSE FICTION.=

Vol. II. =TECHNICAL, TRADE AND COMMERCIAL BOOKS.=

Others to follow.            [In Preparation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Publishers will advise when any of the above books are ready to firms sending their addresses.

