The Augustan Reprint Society

JOHN HILL

HYPOCHONDRIASIS

A Practical Treatise.

     Nicholas Robinson, A New System of the Spleen, Vapours, and
     Hypochondriack Melancholy (London, 1729)

Treatises on hypochondriasis--the seventeenth-century medical term for a wide range of nervous
diseases--were old when "Sir" John Hill, the eccentric English scientist, physician, apothecary,
and hack writer, published his Hypochondriasis in 1766.[1] For at least a century and a half
medical writers as well as lay authors had been writing literature of all types (treatises,
pamphlets, poems, sermons, epigrams) on this most fashionable of English maladies under the
variant names of "melancholy," "the spleen," "black melancholy," "hysteria," "nervous debility,"
"the hyp." Despite the plethora of materia scripta on the subject it makes sense to reprint
Hill's Hypochondriasis, because it is indeed a "practical treatise" and because it offers the
modern student of neoclassical literature a clear summary of the best thoughts that had been
put forth on the subject, as well as an explanation of the causes, symptoms, and cures of this
commonplace malady.

No reader of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century English literature needs to be reminded of
the interest of writers of the period in the condition--"disease" is too confining a term--hypochondriasis.[2]
Their concern is apparent in both the poetry and prose of two centuries. From Robert Burton's
Brobdingnagian exposition in The Anatomy of Melancholy (1621) to Tobias Smollett's depiction
of the misanthropic and ailing Matthew Bramble in Humphry Clinker (1771), and, of course, well
into the nineteenth century, afflicted heroes and weeping heroines populate the pages of England's
literature. There is scarcely a decade in the period 1600-1800 that does not contribute to
the literature of melancholy; so considerable in number are the works that could be placed
under this heading that it actually makes sense to speak of the "literature of melancholy."
A kaleidoscopic survey of this literature (exclusive of treatises written on the subject) would
include mention of Milton's "Il Penseroso" and "L'Allegro," the meditative Puritan and nervous
Anglican thinkers of the Restoration (many of whose narrators, such as Richard Baxter, author
of the Reliquiae Baxterianae,[3] are afflicted), Swift's "School of Spleen" in A Tale of a
Tub, Pope's hysterical Belinda in the "Cave of Spleen," the melancholic "I" of Samuel Richardson's
correspondence, Gray's leucocholy, the psychosomatically ailing characters of The Vicar of
Wakefield and Tristram Shandy, Boswell's Hypochondriack Papers (1777-1783) contributed to the
London Magazine, and such "sensible" and "sensitive" women as Mrs. Bennett and Miss Bates in
the novels of Jane Austen. So great in bulk is this literature in the mid eighteenth century,
that C. A. Moore has written, "statistically, this deserves to be called the Age of Melancholy."[4]
The vastness of this literature is sufficient to justify the reprinting of an unavailable practical
handbook on the subject by a prolific author all too little known.[5]

The medical background of Hill's pamphlet extends further back than the seventeenth century
and Burton's Anatomy. The ancient Greeks had theorized about hypochondria: hypochondriasis
signified a disorder beneath (hypo) the gristle (chondria) and the disease was discussed principally
in physiological terms. The belief that hypochondriasis was a somatic condition persisted until
the second half of the seventeenth century at which time an innovation was made by Dr. Thomas
Sydenham. In addition to showing that hypochondriasis and hysteria (thought previously by Sydenham
to afflict women only) were the same disease, Sydenham noted that the external cause of both
was a mental disturbance and not a physiological one. He also had a theory that the internal
and immediate cause was a disorder of the animal spirits arising from a clot and resulting
in pain, spasms, and bodily disorders. By attributing the onset of the malady to mental phenomena
and not to obstructions of the spleen or viscera, Sydenham was moving towards a psychosomatic
theory of hypochondriasis, one that was to be debated in the next century in England, Holland,
and France.[6] Sydenham's influence on the physicians of the eighteenth century was profound:
Cheyne in England, Boerhaave in Holland, La Mettrie in France. Once the theory of the nervous
origins of hypochondria gained ground--here I merely note coincidence, not historical cause
and effect--the disease became increasingly fashionable in England, particularly among the
polite, the aristocratic, and the refined. Students of the drama will recall Scrub's denial
in The Beaux' Stratagem (1707) of the possibility that Archer has the spleen and Mrs. Sullen's
interjection, "I thought that distemper had been only proper to people of quality."

Toward the middle of the eighteenth century, hypochondria was so prevalent in people's minds
and mouths that it soon assumed the abbreviated name "the hyp." Entire poems like William Somervile's
The Hyp: a Burlesque Poem in Five Canto's (1731) and Tim Scrubb's A Rod for the Hyp-Doctor
(1731) were devoted to this strain; others, like Malcom Flemyng's epic poem, Neuropathia: sive
de morbis hypochondriacis et hystericis, libri tres, poema medicum (1740), were more technical
and scientific. Professor Donald Davie has written that he has often "heard old fashioned and
provincial persons [in England and Scotland] even in [my] own lifetime say, 'Oh, you give me
the hyp,' where we should say 'You give me a pain in the neck'"[7]; and I myself have heard
the expression, "You give me the pip," where "pip" may be a corruption of "hyp." As used in
the early eighteenth century, the term "hyp" was perhaps not far from what our century has
learned to call Angst. It was also used as a synonym for "lunacy," as the anonymous author
of Anti-Siris (1744), one of the tracts in the tar-water controversy, informs us that "Berkeley
tells his Countrymen, they are all mad, or Hypochondriac, which is but a fashionable name for
Madness." Bernard Mandeville, the Dutch physician and author of The Fable of the Bees, seems
to have understood perfectly well that hypochondriasis is a condition encompassing any number
of diseases and not a specific and readily definable ailment; a condition, moreover, that hovers
precariously and bafflingly in limbo between mind and body, and he stressed this as the theme
of his Treatise of the Hypochondriack and Hysteric Passions, Vulgarly Call'd the Hypo in Men
and Vapours in Women (1711). The mental causes are noted as well in an anonymous pamphlet in
the British Museum, A Treatise on the Dismal Effects of Low-Spiritedness (1750) and are echoed
in many similar early and mid-eighteenth century works. Some medical writers of the age, like
Nicholas Robinson, had reservations about the external mental bases of the hyp and preferred
to discuss the condition in terms of internal physiological causes:

     ...of that Disorder we call the Vapours, or Hypochondria; for
     they have no material distinctive Characters, but what arise from
     the same Disease affecting different Sexes, and the Vapours in
     Women are term'd the Hypochondria in Men, and they proceed from
     the Contraction of the Vessels being depress'd a little beneath the
     Balance of Nature, and the Relaxation of the Nerves at the same
     Time, which creates that Uneasiness and Melancholy that naturally
     attends Vapours, and which generally is an Intemperature of the
     whole Body, proceeding from a Depression of the Solids beneath the
     Balance of Nature; but the Intemperature of the Parts is that
     Peculiar Disposition whereby they favour any Disease.[8]

But the majority of medical thinkers had been persuaded that the condition was psychosomatic,
and this belief was supported by research on nerves by important physicians in the 1740's and
1750's: the Monro brothers in London, Robert Whytt in Edinburgh, Albrecht von Haller in Leipzig.
By mid century the condition known as the hyp was believed to be a real, not an imaginary ailment,
common, peculiar in its manifestations, and indefinable, almost impossible to cure, producing
very real symptoms of physical illness, and said to originate sometimes in depression and idleness.
It was summed up by Robert James in his Medicinal Dictionary (London, 1743-45):

     If we thoroughly consider its Nature, it will be found to be a
     spasmodico-flatulent Disorder of the Primae Viae, that is, of the
     Stomach and Intestines, arising from an Inversion or Perversion of
     their peristaltic Motion, and, by the mutual consent of the Parts,
     throwing the whole nervous System into irregular Motions, and
     disturbing the whole Oeconomy of the Functions.... no part or
     Function of the Body escapes the Influence of this tedious and long
     protracted Disease, whose Symptoms are so violent and numerous,
     that it is no easy Task either to enumerate or account for them....
     No disease is more troublesome, either to the Patient or Physician,
     than hypochondriac Disorders; and it often happens, that, thro' the
     Fault of both, the Cure is either unnecessarily protracted, or
     totally frustrated; for the Patients are so delighted, not only
     with a Variety of Medicines, but also of Physicians.... On the
     contrary, few physicians are sufficiently acquainted with the true
     Genius and Nature of this perplexing Disorder; for which Reason
     they boldly prescribe almost everything contained in the Shops, not
     without an irreparable Injury to the Patient (article on
     "Hypochondriacus Morbis").

This is a more technical description than Hill gives anywhere in his handbook, but it serves
well to summarize the background of the condition about which Sir John wrote.

Hill's Hypochondriasis adds little that is new to the theory of the disease. It incorporates
much of the thinking set forth by the writings mentioned above, particularly those of George
Cheyne, whose medical works The English Malady (1733) and The Natural Method of Cureing the
Diseases of the Body, and the Disorders of the Mind Depending on the Body (1742) Hill knew.
He is also conversant with some Continental writers on the subject, two of whom--Isaac Biberg,
author of The Oeconomy of Nature (1751), and René Réaumur who had written a history of insects
(1722)[9]--he mentions explicitly, and with William Stukeley's Of the Spleen (1723). Internal
evidence indicates that Hill had read or was familiar with the ideas propounded in Richard
Blackmore's Treatise of the Spleen and Vapours (1725) and Nicholas Robinson's A New System
of the Spleen, Vapours, and Hypochondriack Melancholy (1729).

Hill's arrangement of sections is logical: he first defines the condition (I), then proceeds
to discuss persons most susceptible to it (II), its major symptoms (III), consequences (IV),
causes (V), and cures (VI-VIII). In the first four sections almost every statement is commonplace
and requires no commentary (for example, Hill's opening remark: "To call the Hypochondriasis
a fanciful malady, is ignorant and cruel. It is a real, and a sad disease: an obstruction of
the spleen by thickened and distempered blood; extending itself often to the liver, and other
parts; and unhappily is in England very frequent: physick scarce knows one more fertile in
ill; or more difficult of cure.") His belief that the condition afflicts sedentary persons,
particularly students, philosophers, theologians, and that it is not restricted to women alone--as
some contemporary thinkers still maintained--is also impossible to trace to a single source,
as is his description (p. 12) of the most prevalent physiological symptoms ("lowness of spirits,
and inaptitude to motion; a disrelish of amusements, a love of solitude.... Wild thoughts;
a sense of fullness") and causes (the poor and damp English climate and the resultant clotting
of blood in the spleen) of the illness.

Sections V-VIII, dealing with causes and cures, are less commonplace and display some of Hill's
eccentricities as a writer and thinker. He uses the section entitled "Cures" as a means to
peddle his newly discovered cure-all, water dock,[10] which Smollett satirized through the
mouth of Tabitha Bramble in Humphry Clinker (1771). Hill also rebelled against contemporary
apothecaries and physicians who prescribed popular medicines--such as Berkeley's tar-water,
Dover's mercury powders, and James's fever-powders--as universal panaceas for the cure of the
hyp. "No acrid medicine must be directed, for that may act too hastily, dissolve the impacted
matter at once, and let it loose, to the destruction of the sufferer; no antimonial, no mercurial,
no martial preparation must be taken; in short, no chymistry: nature is the shop that heaven
has set before us, and we must seek our medicine there" (p. 24). However scientifically correct
Hill may have been in minimizing the efficacy of current pills and potions advertised as remedies
for the hyp, he was unusual for his time in objecting so strongly to them. Less eccentric was
his allegiance to the "Ancients" rather than to the "Moderns" so far as chemical treatment
(i.e., restoration of the humours by chemical rearrangement) of hypochondriasis is concerned.[11]
"The venerable ancients," Hill writes, "who knew not this new art, will lead us in the search;
and (faithful relators as they are of truth) will tell us whence we may deduce our hope; and
what we are to fear" (p. 24).

Still more idiosyncratic, perhaps, is Hill's contention (p. 25) that the air of dry, high grounds
worsens the condition of the patient. Virtually every writer I have read on the subject believed
that onset of the hyp was caused by one of the six non-naturals--air, diet, lack of sufficient
sleep, too little or too much exercise, defective evacuation, the passions of the mind; and
although some medical writers emphasized the last of these,[12] few would have concurred with
Hill that the fetid air of London was less harmful than the clearer air at Highgate. All readers
of the novel of the period will recall the hypochondriacal Matt Bramble's tirade against the
stench of London air. Beliefs of the variety here mentioned cause me to question Hill's importance
in the history of medicine; there can be no question about his contributions to the advancement
of the science of botany through popularization of Linnaeus' system of bisexual classification,
but Hill's medical importance is summarized best as that of a compiler. His recommendation
of the study of botany as a cure for melancholics is sensible but verges on becoming "a digression
in praise of the author," a poetic apologia pro vita sua in Augustan fashion:

     For me, I should advise above all other things the study of nature.
     Let him begin with plants: he will here find a continual pleasure,
     and continual change; fertile of a thousand useful things; even of
     the utility we are seeking here. This will induce him to walk; and
     every hedge and hillock, every foot-path side, and thicket, will
     afford him some new object. He will be tempted to be continually in
     the air; and continually to change the nature and quality of the
     air, by visiting in succession the high lands and the low, the
     lawn, the heath, the forest. He will never want inducement to be
     abroad; and the unceasing variety of the subjects of his
     observation, will prevent his walking hastily: he will pursue his
     studies in the air; and that contemplative turn of mind, which in
     his closet threatened his destruction, will thus become the great
     means of his recovery (pp. 26-27).

Hill was forever extolling the claims of a life devoted to the study of nature, as we see in
a late work, The Virtues of British Herbs (1770). Judicious as is the logic of this recommendation,
one cannot help but feel that the emphasis here is less on diversion as a cure and more on
the botanic attractions of "every hedge and hillock, every foot-path side, and thicket."

While Hill's rules and regulations regarding proper diet (Section VII) are standard, several
taken almost verbatim et literatim from Cheyne's list in The English Malady (1733), his recommendation
(Section VIII) of "Spleen-Wort" as the best medicine for the hypochondriac patient is not.
Since Hill devotes so much space to the virtues of this herb and concludes his work extolling
this plant, a word should be said about it. Throughout his life he was an active botanist.
Apothecary, physician, and writer though he was, it was ultimately botany that was his ruling
passion, as is made abundantly clear in his correspondence.[13] Wherever he lived--whether
in the small house in St. James's Street or in the larger one on the Bayswater Road--he cultivated
an herb garden that flattered his knowledge and ability. Connoisseurs raved about its species
and considered it one of the showpieces of London. His arrogant personality alone prevented
him from becoming the first Keeper of the Apothecary's Garden in Chelsea, although he was for
a time superintendent to the Dowager Princess of Wales's gardens at Kensington Palace and at
Kew. His interest in cultivation of herbs nevertheless continued; over the years Hill produced
more than thirty botanical works, many of them devoted to the medical virtues of rare herbs
such as "Spleen-Wort." Among these are The British Herbal (1756), On the Virtues of Sage in
Lengthening Human Life (1763), Centaury, the Great Stomachic (1765), Polypody (1768), A Method
of Curing Jaundice (1768), Instances of the Virtue of Petasite Root (1771), and Twenty Five
New Plants (1773).[14] It is therefore not surprising that he should believe a specific herb
to be the best remedy for a complicated medical condition. Nor is his reference to the Ancients
as authority for the herbal pacification of an inflamed spleen surprising in the light of his
researches: he was convinced that every illness could be cured by taking an appropriate herb
or combination of herbs. Whereas a few nonmedical writers--such as John Wesley in Primitive
Physick (1747)--had advocated the taking of one or two herbs in moderate dosage as anti-hysterics
(the eighteenth-century term for all cures of the hyp), no medical writer of the century ever
promoted the use of herbs to the extent that Hill did. In fairness to him, it is important
to note that his herbal remedies were harmless and that many found their way into the official
London Pharmacopeia. "The virtues of this smooth Spleen-wort," he insists, "have stood the
test of ages; and the plant every where retained its name and credit: and one of our good herbarists,
who had seen a wonderful case of a swoln spleen, so big, and hard as to be felt with terror,
brought back to a state of nature by it" (p. 37).[15] The greatest portion of Hill's concluding
section combines advertisement for the powder medicine he was himself manufacturing at a handsome
profit together with a protest against competing apothecaries: "An intelligent person was directed
to go to the medicinal herb shops in the several markets, and buy some of this Spleen-wort;
the name was written, and shewn to every one; every shop received his money, and almost every
one sold a different plant, under the name of this: but what is very striking, not one of them
the right" (p. 42).

Treatises on hypochondriasis did not cease to be printed after Hill's in 1766, but continued
to issue from the presses into the nineteenth century. A good example of this is the tome by
John Reid, physician to the Finsbury Dispensary in London, Essays on Insanity, Hypochondriasis
and Other Nervous Affections (1816), which summarizes theories of the malady.[16] A bibliographical
study of such works would probably reveal a larger number of titles in the nineteenth century
than in the previous one, but by this time the nature and definition of hypochondria had changed
significantly.

If John Hill's volume is not an important contribution in the history of medicine, it is a
lucid and brief exposition of many of the best ideas that had been thought and written on the
hyp, with the exception of his uninhibited prescribing of herbal medicines as cure-alls. An
understanding of this disease is essential for readers of neoclassical English literature,
especially when we reflect upon the fact that some of the best literature of the period was
composed by writers whom it afflicted. It is perhaps not without significance that the greatest
poet of the Augustan age, Alexander Pope, thought it necessary as he lay on his deathbed in
May 1744 to exclaim with his last breath, "I never was hippish in my whole life."[17]

  University of California,
  Los Angeles

NOTES TO THE INTRODUCTION

[1] The text here reproduced is that of the copy in the Library of the Royal Society of Medicine,
London. Title pages of different copies of the first edition of 1766 vary. For example, the
title page of the copy in the British Museum reads, Hypochondriasis; a Practical Treatise On
the Nature and Cure of that Disorder, Commonly called the Hyp and the Hypo. The copy in the
Royal Society of Medicine contains, among other additions, the words "by Sir John Hill" in
pencil, and "8vo Lond. 1766," written in ink and probably a later addition.

[2] Melancholy, hypochondriasis, and the spleen were considered in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries to be one complex condition, a malady rather than a malaise, which is but a symptom.
Distinctions among these, of interest primarily to medical historians, cannot be treated here.
As good a definition as any is found in Dr. Johnson's Dictionary (1755): "Hypochondriacal....
1. Melancholy; disordered in the imagination.... 2. Producing melancholy...." The literature
of melancholy has been surveyed in part by C. A. Moore, "The English Malady," Backgrounds of
English Literature 1700-1760 (Minneapolis, 1953), pp. 179-235. In medical parlance, "hypochondria"
means the soft parts of the body below the costal cartilages, and the singular form of the
word, "hypochondrium," means the viscera situated in the hypochondria, i.e., the liver, gall
bladder, and spleen.

[3] See Samuel Clifford's The Signs and Causes of Melancholy, with directions suited to the
case of those who are afflicted with it. Collected out of the works of Mr. Richard Baxter (London,
1716) in the British Museum.

[4] Backgrounds of English Literature, p. 179.

[5] See my forthcoming biography, The Literary Quack: A Life of 'Sir' John Hill of London,
and John Kennedy's Some Remarks on the Life and Writings of Dr. J---- H----, Inspector General
of Great Britain (London, 1752).

[6] For some of this background see L. J. Rather, Mind and Body in Eighteenth Century Medicine:
A Study Based on Jerome Gaub's De Regimine Mentis (London, 1965), pp. 135-90 passim.

[7] Science and Literature 1700-1740 (London, 1964), pp. 50-51.

[8] A New Theory of Physick (London, 1725), p. 56.

[9] Biberg was a Swedish naturalist and had studied botany under Linnaeus in Uppsala; Réaumur,
a French botanist, had contributed papers to the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society
in London.

[10] The Power of Water-Dock against the Scurvy whether in the Plain Root or Essence.... (London,
1765), had been published six months earlier than Hypochondriasis and had earned Hill a handsome
profit.

[11] I have treated aspects of this subject in my article, "Matt Bramble and The Sulphur Controversy
in the XVIIIth Century: Medical Background of Humphry Clinker," JHI, XXVIII (1967), 577-90.

[12] See, for example, Jeremiah Waineright, A Mechanical Account of the Non-Naturals (1707);
John Arbuthnot, An Essay Concerning the Effects of Air on Human Bodies (1733); Frank Nichols,
De Anima Medica (1750).

[13] Hill's correspondence is not published but shall be printed as an appendix to my forthcoming
biography.

[14] I have discussed some of these works in connection with the medical background of John
Wesley's Primitive Physick (1747). See G. S. Rousseau, Harvard Library Bulletin, XVI (1968),
242-56.

[15] It is difficult to know with certainty when Hill first became interested in the herb.
He mentions it in passing in The British Herbal (1756), I, 526 and may have sold it as early
as 1742 when he opened an apothecary shop.

[16] Reid's dissertation at Edinburgh, entitled De Insania (1798), contains materials on the
relationship of the imagination to all forms of mental disturbance. Secondary literature on
hypochondria is plentiful. Works include: R. H. Gillespie, Hypochondria (London, 1928), William
K. Richmond, The English Disease (London, 1958), Charles Chenevix Trench, The Royal Malady
(New York, 1964), and Ilza Vieth, Hysteria: The History of a Disease (Chicago, 1965), and "On
Hysterical and Hypochondriacal Afflictions," Bulletin of the History of Medicine, XXX (1956),
233-40.

I am indebted to A. D. Morris, M.D., F.R.S.M., for help of various sorts in writing this introduction.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The text of this facsimile of Hypochondriasis is reproduced from a copy in the Library of the
Royal Society of Medicine, London.

     HYPOCHONDRIASIS.

            A

  PRACTICAL TREATISE, &c.

HYPOCHONDRIASIS.

SECT. I.

The NATURE of the DISORDER.

The blood is a mixture of many fluids, which, in a state of health, are so combined, that the
whole passes freely through its appointed vessels; but if by the loss of the thinner parts,
the rest becomes too gross to be thus carried through, it will stop where the circulation has
least power; and having thus stopped it will accumulate; heaping by degrees obstruction on
obstruction.

Health and chearfulness, and the quiet exercise of mind, depend upon a perfect circulation:
is it a wonder then, when this becomes impeded the body looses of its health, and the temper
of its sprightliness? to be otherwise would be the miracle; and he inhumanly insults the afflicted,
who calls all this a voluntary frowardness. Its slightest state brings with it sickness, anguish
and oppression; and innumerable ills follow its advancing steps, unless prevented by timely
care; till life itself grows burthensome.

The disease was common in antient Greece; and her physicians understood it, better than those
perhaps of later times, in any other country; who though happy in many advantages these fathers
of the science could not have, yet want the great assistance of frequent watching it in all
its stages.

Those venerable writers have delivered its nature, and its cure: in the first every thing now
shews they were right; and what they have said as to the latter will be found equally true
and certain. This, so far as present experience has confirmed it, and no farther, will be here
laid before the afflicted in a few plain words.

SECT. II.

Persons Subject to it.

Fatigue of mind, and great exertion of its powers often give birth to this disease; and always
tend to encrease it. The finer spirits are wasted by the labour of the brain: the Philosopher
rises from his study more exhausted than the Peasant leaves his drudgery; without the benefit
that he has from exercise. Greatness of mind, and steady virtue; determined resolution, and
manly firmness, when put in action, and intent upon their object, all also lead to it: perhaps
whatever tends to the ennobling of the soul has equal share in bringing on this weakness of
the body.

From this we may learn easily who are the men most subject to it; the grave and studious, those
of a sedate temper and enlarged understanding, the learned and wise, the virtuous and the valiant:
those whom it were the interest of the world to wish were free from this and every other illness;
and who perhaps, except for this alloy, would have too large a portion of human happiness.

Though these are most, it is not these alone, who are subject to it. There are countries where
it is endemial, and in other places some have the seeds of it in their constitution; and in
some it takes rise from accidents. In these last it is the easiest of cure; and in the first
most difficult.

Beside the Greeks already named, the Jews of old time were heavily afflicted with this disease;
and in their descendants to this day it is often constitutional: the Spaniards have it almost
to a man; and so have the American Indians. Perhaps the character of these several nations
may be connected with it. The steady honour, and firm valour of the Spaniard, very like that
of the ancient Doric nation, who followed the flute not the trumpet to the field; and met the
enemy, not with shouts and fury, but with a determined virtue: it is the temper of the Hypochondriac
to be slow, but unmoveably resolved: the Jew has shewn this mistakenly, but almost miraculously;
and the poor Indian, untaught as he is, faces all peril with composure, and sings his death-song
with an unalter'd countenance.

Among particular persons the most inquiring and contemplative are those who suffer oftenest
by this disease; and of all degrees of men I think the clergy. I do not mean the hunting, shooting,
drinking clergy, who bear the tables of the great; but the retir'd and conscientious; such
as attend in midnight silence to their duty; and seek in their own cool breasts, or wheresoever
else they may be found, new admonitions for an age plunged in new vices. To this disease we
owe the irreparable loss of Dr. YOUNG; and the present danger of many other the best and most
improved amongst us. May what is here to be proposed assist in their preservation!

The Geometrician or the learned Philosopher of whatever denomination, whose course of study
fixes his eye for ever on one object, his mind intensely and continually employed upon one
thought, should be warned also that he is in danger; or if he find himself already afflicted,
he should be told that the same course of life, which brought it on, will, without due care,
encrease it to the most dreaded violence.

The middle period of life is that in which there is the greatest danger of an attack from this
disease; and the latter end of autumn, when the summer heats have a little time been over,
is the season when in our climate its first assaults are most to be expected. The same time
of the year always increases the disorder in those who have been before afflicted with it;
and it is a truth must be confessed, that from its first attack the patient grows continually,
though slowly, worse; unless a careful regimen prevent it.

The constitutions most liable to this obstruction are the lean, and dark complexioned; the
grave and sedentary. Let such watch the first symptoms; and obviate, (as they may with ease)
that which it will be much more difficult to remove.

It is happy a disease, wherein the patient must do a great deal for himself, falls, for the
most part, upon those who have the powers of reason strongest. Let them only be aware of this,
that the distemper naturally disposes them to inactivity; and reason will have no use unless
accompanied with resolution to enforce it.

Though the physician can do something toward the cure, much more depends upon the patient;
and here his constancy of mind will be employed most happily. No one is better qualified to
judge on a fair hearing what course is the most fit; and having made that choice, he must with
patience wait its good effects. Diseases that come on slowly must have time for curing; an
attention to the first appearances of the disorder will be always happiest; because when least
established it is easiest overthrown: but when that happy period has been neglected, he must
wait the effects of such a course as will dilute and melt the obstructing matter gradually;
for till that be done it is not only vain, but sometimes dangerous, to attempt its expulsion
from the body.

The blood easily separates itself into the grosser and the thinner parts: we see this in bleeding;
and from the toughness of the red cake may guess how very difficult it will be to dissolve
a substance of like firmness in the vessels of the body. That it can thus become thickened
within the body, a Pleurisy shews us too evidently: in that case it is brought on suddenly,
and with inflammation; in this other, slowly and without; and here, even before it forms the
obstruction, can bring on many mischiefs. Various causes can produce the same effect, but that
in all cases operates most durably, which operates most slowly. The watery part of the blood
is its mild part; in the remaining gross matter of it, are acrid salts and burning oils, and
these, when destitute of that happy dilution nature gives them in a healthy body, are capable
of doing great mischief to the tender vessels in which they are kept stagnant.

SECT. III.

The SYMPTOMS of the DISORDER. A very little help may combat these: but if that indolence which
is indeed a part of the disorder, will neglect them; worse must be expected soon to follow.

Wild thoughts; a sense of fullness, weight, and oppression in the body, a want of appetite,
or, what is worse, an appetite without digestion; for these are the conditions of different
states of the disease, a fullness and a difficulty of breathing after meals, a straitness of
the breast, pains and flatulencies in the bowels, and an unaptness to discharge their contents.

The pulse becomes low, weak, and unequal; and there are frequent palpitations of the heart,
a little dark-coloured urine is voided at some times; and a flood of colourless and insipid
at others; relieving for a moment, but increasing the distemper: there is in some cases also
a continual teazing cough, with a choaking stoppage in the throat at times; then heartburn,
sickness, hardness of the belly, and a costive habit, or a tormenting and vain irritation.

The lips turn pale, the eyes loose their brightness and by degrees the white grows as it were
greenish, the gums want their due firmness, with their proper colour; and an unpleasing foulness
grows upon the teeth: the inside of the mouth is pale and furred, and the throat dry and husky:
the colour of the skin is pale (though there are periods when the face is florid) and as the
obstruction gathers ground, and more affects the liver, the whole body becomes yellow, tawny,
greenish, and at length of that deep and dusky hue, to which men of swift imagination have
given the name of blackness.

These symptoms do not all appear in any one period of the disease, or in one case, but at one
time or other all of them, as well as those which follow: the flesh becomes cold to the touch,
though the patient does not himself perceive it; the limbs grow numbed and torpid, the breathing
dull and slow, and the voice hollow; and usually the appetite in this period declines, and
comes almost to nothing: night sweats come on, black swellings appear on the veins, the flesh
wastes and the breast becomes flat and hollow: the mouth is full of a thin spittle, the head
is dizzy and confus'd, and sometimes there is an unconquerable numbness in the organs of speech.

I have known the temporary silence that follows upon this last symptom become a jest to the
common herd; and the unhappy patient, instead of compassion and assistance, receive the reproof
of sullenness, from those who should have known and acted better.

About twenty years ago I met on a visit at Catthorpe in Leicestershire a young gentleman of
distinguished learning and abilities, who at certain times was speechless. The vulgar thought
it a pretence: and a jocose lady, where he was at tea with company, putting him as she said
to a trial, poured out a dish very strong and without sugar. He drank it and returned the cup
with a bow of great reserve, and his eye bent on the ground: she then filled the cup with sugar,
and pouring weak tea on it, sent it him: he drank that too, looked at her steadily, and blushed
for her. The lady declared the man was dumb; the rest thought him perverse, and obstinate;
but a constant and steady perseverance in an easy method cured him.

All these are miseries which the disease, while it retains its natural form, can bring upon
the patient; and thus he will in time be worn out, and led miserably, though slowly, to the
grave. Let him not indulge his inactivity so far as to give way to this, because it is represented
as far off; the disease may suddenly and frightfully change its nature; and swifter evils follow.

SECT. IV.

The DANGER.

We have done with the obstruction considered in itself; but this, though often unsurmountable
by art, at least by the methods now in use, will be sometimes broken through at once by nature,
or by accidents; and bring on fatal evils. These are strictly different diseases, and are no
otherway concerned here, than as the consequences of that of which we are treating.

The thick and glutinous blood which has so long stagnated in the spleen, will have in that
time altered its nature, and acquired a very great degree of acrimony: while it lies dormant,
this does no more mischiefs, than those named already; but when violent exercise, a fit of
outrageous anger, or any thing else that suddenly shocks and disturbs the frame, puts it in
motion, it melts at once into a kind of liquid putrefaction. Being now thin, it mixes itself
readily with the blood again, and brings on putrid fevers; destroys the substance of the spleen
itself, or being thrown upon some other of the viscera, corrodes them, and leads on this way
a swift and miserable death. If it fall upon the liver, its tender pulpy substance is soon
destroyed, jaundices beyond the help of art first follow, then dropsies and all their train
of misery; if on lungs, consumptions; if on the brain, convulsions, epilepsy, palsy, apoplexy;
if on the surface, leprosy.

The intention of cure is to melt this coagulation softly, not to break it violently; and then
to give it a very gentle passage through the bowels. There is no safe way for it to take but
that; and even that when urged too far may bring on fatal dysenteries.

Let none wonder at the sudden devastation which sometimes arises from this long stagnant matter,
when liquified too hastily: how long, how many years the impacted matter will continue quiet
in a schirrous tumour of the breast; but being once put in motion, whether from accident, or
in the course of nature, what can describe; or what can stop its havock!

Instances of the other are too frequent. A nobleman the other day died paralytick: dissection
shewed a spleen consumed by an abscess, formed from the dissolved matter of such an obstruction:
and 'tis scarce longer since, a learned gentleman, who had been several years lost to his friends,
by the extreams of a Hypochondriacal disorder, seem'd gradually without assistance to recover:
but the lungs suffered while the spleen was freed; and he died very soon of what is called
a galloping consumption.

When the obstruction is great and of long continuance, if it be thus hastily moved, the consequence
is, equally, a sudden and a miserable death, whether, like the matter of a cancer, it remains
in its place; or like that of a bad small pox, be thrown upon some other vital part.

Let not the patient be too much alarmed; this is laid down to caution, not to terrify him:
it is fit he should know his danger, and attend to it; for the prevention is easy; and the
cure, even of the most advanced stages, when undertaken by gentle means, is not at all impracticable:
to assist the physician, let him look into himself, and recollect the source of his complaint.
This he may judge of from the following notices.

SECT. V.

The Causes of the HYPOCHONDRIASIS.

The obstruction which forms this disease, may take its origin from different accidents: a fever
ill cured has often caused it; or the piles, which had been used to discharge largely, ceasing;
a marshy soil, poisoned with stagnant water, has given it to some persons; and altho' indolence
and inactivity are oftenest at the root, yet it has arisen from too great exercise.

Real grief has often brought it on; and even love, for sometimes that is real. Study and fixed
attention of the mind have been accused before; and add to these the stooping posture of the
body, which most men use, though none should use it, in writing and in reading. This has contributed
too much to it; but of all other things night studies are the most destructive. The steady
stillness, and dusky habit of all nature in those hours, enforce, encourage, and support that
settled gloom, which rises from fixt thought; and sinks the body to the grave; even while it
carries up the mind to heaven. He who would have his lamp

        At midnight hour
  Be seen in some high lonely tower,[18]

will waste the flame of this unheeded life: and while he labours to unsphere the spirit of
Plato[18] will let loose his own.

SECT. VI.

The Cure of the HYPOCHONDRIASIS.

Let him who would escape the mischiefs of an obstructed spleen, avoid the things here named:
and let him who suffers from the malady, endeavour to remember to which of them it has been
owing; for half the hope depends upon that knowledge.

Nature has sometimes made a cure herself, and we should watch her ways; for art never is so
right as when it imitates her: sometimes the patient's own resolution has set him free. This
is always in his power, and at all times will do wonders.

The bleeding of the piles, from nature's single efforts, has at once cured a miserable man;
where their cessation was the cause of the disorder. A leprosy has appeared upon the skin,
and all the symptoms of the former sickness vanished. This among the Jews happened often: both
diseases we know were common among them: and I have here seen something very like it: Water-Dock
has thrown out scorbutic eruptions, and all the former symptoms of an Hypochondriacal disorder
have disappeared: returning indeed when these were unadvisedly struck in; but keeping off entirely
when they were better treated. A natural purging unsuppressed has sometimes done the same good
office: but this is hazardous.

It is easy to be directed from such instances; only let us take the whole along with us. Bleeding
would have answered nature's purpose, if she could not have opened of herself the hæmorrhoidal
vessels; but he who should give medicines for that purpose, might destroy his patient by too
great disturbance. If a natural looseness may perform the cure, so may an artificial; when
the original source of the disorder points that way. But these are helps that take place only
in particular cases.

The general and universal method of cure must be by some mild and gently resolving medicine,
under the influence of which the obstructing matter may be voided that, or some other way with
safety. The best season to undertake this is the autumn, but even here there must be caution.

In the first place, no strong evacuating remedy must be given; for that, by carrying off the
thinner parts of the juices, will tend to thicken the remainder; and certainly encrease the
distemper.

But prior to the course of any medicine, and as an essential to any good hope from it, the
patient must prescribe himself a proper course of life, and a well chosen diet: let us assist
him in his choice; and speak of this first, as it comes first in order.

SECT. VI.

Rules of Life for Hypochondriac Persons.

Air and exercise, as they are the best preservers of health, and greatest assistants in the
cure of all long continued diseases, will have their full effect in this; but there requires
some caution in the choice, and management of them. It is common to think the air of high grounds
best; but experience near home shews otherwise: the Hypochondriac patient is always worse at
Highgate even than in London.

The air he breathes should be temperate; not exposed to the utmost violences of heat and cold,
and the swift changes from one to the other; which are most felt on those high grounds. The
side of a hill is the best place for him: and though wet grounds are hurtful; yet let there
be the shade of trees, to tempt him often to a walk; and soften by their exhalation the over
dryness of the air.

The exercise he takes should be frequent; but not violent. Motion preserves the firmness of
the parts, and elasticity of the vessels; it prevents that aggregation of thick humours which
he is most to fear. A sedentary life always produces weakness, and that mischief always follows:
weak eyes are gummy, weak lungs are clogged with phlegm, and weak bowels waste themselves in
vapid diarrhoeas.

Let him invite himself abroad, and let his friends invite him by every innocent inducement.

If the mind tire upon this, from the repeated use, another of nature's kingdoms opens itself
at once upon him; the plant he is weary of observing, feeds some insect he may examine; nor
is there a stone that lies before his foot, but may afford instruction and amusement.

Even what the vulgar call the most abject things will shew a wonderful utility; and lead the
mind, in pious contemplation higher than the stars. The poorest moss that is trampled under
foot, has its important uses: is it at the bottom of a wood we find it? why there it shelters
the fallen seeds; hides them from birds, and covers them from frost; and thus becomes the foster
father of another forest! creeps it along the surface of a rock? even there its good is infinite!
its small roots run into the stone, and the rains make their way after them; the moss having
lived its time dies; it rots and with the mouldered fragments of the stone forms earth; wherein,
after a few successions, useful plants may grow, and feed more useful cattle![19]

Is there a weed more humble in its aspect, more trampled on, or more despised than knot grass!
no art can get the better of its growth, no labour can destroy it; 'twere pity if they could,
for the thing lives where nothing would of use to us; and its large and most wonderfully abundant
seeds, feed in hard winters, half the birds of Heaven.

What the weak moss performs upon the rock the loathed toadstool brings about in timber: is
an oak dead where man's eye will not find it? this fungus roots itself upon the bark, and rots
the wood beneath it; hither the beetle creeps for shelter, and for sustenance; him the woodpecker
follows as his prey; and while he tears the tree in search of him, he scatters it about the
ground; which it manures.

Nor is it the beetle alone that thus insinuates itself into the substance of the vegetable
tribe: the tender aphide[20], whom a touch destroys, burrows between the two skins of a leaf,
for shelter from his winged enemies; tracing, with more than Dedalæan art, his various meanders;
and veining the green surface with these white lines more beautifully than the best Ægyptian
marble.

'Twere endless to proceed; nor is it needful: one object will not fail to lead on to another,
and every where the goodness of his God will shine before him even in what are thought the
vilest things; his greatness in the lead of them.

Let him pursue these thoughts, and seek abroad the objects and the instigations to them: but
let him in these and all other excursions avoid equally the dews of early morning, and of evening.

The more than usual exercise of this prescription will dispose him to more than customary sleep,
let him indulge it freely; so far from hurting, it will help his cure.

Let him avoid all excesses: drink need scarce be named, for we are writing to men of better
and of nobler minds, than can be tempted to that humiliating vice. Those who in this disorder
have too great an appetite, must not indulge it; much eaten was never well digested: but of
all excesses the most fatal in this case is that of venery. It is the excess we speak of.

SECT. VII.

The proper DIET.

In the first place acids must be avoided carefully; and all things that are in a state of fermentation,
for they will breed acidity. Provisions hardened by salting never should be tasted; much less
those cured by smoaking, and by salting. Bacon is indigestible in an Hypochondriac stomach;
and hams, impregnated as is now the custom, with acid fumes from the wood fires over which
they are hung, have that additional mischief.

Milk ought to be a great article in the diet: and even in this there should be choice. The
milk of grass-fed cows has its true quality: no other. There are a multitude of ways in which
this may be made a part both of our foods and drinks, and they should all be used.

The great and general caution is that the diet be at all times of a kind loosening and gently
stimulating; light but not acrid. Veal, lamb, fowls, lobsters, crabs, craw-fish, fresh water
fish and mutton broth, with plenty of boiled vegetables, are always right; and give enough variety.

Raw vegetables are all bad: sour wines, old cheese, and bottled beer are things never to be
once tasted. Indeed much wine is wrong, be it of what kind soever. It is the first of cordials;
and as such I would have it taken in this disease when it is wanted: plainly as a medicine,
rather than a part of diet. Malt liquor carefully chosen is certainly the best drink. This
must be neither new, nor tending to sourness; perfectly clear, and of a moderate strength:
it is the native liquor of our country, and the most healthful.

Too much tea weakens; and even sugar is in this disorder hurtful: but honey may supply its
place in most things; and this is not only harmless but medicinal; a very powerful dissolvent
of impacted humours, and a great deobstruent.

What wine is drank should be of some of the sweet kinds. Old Hock has been found on enquiry
to yield more than ten times the acid of the sweet wines; and in red Port, at least in what
we are content to call so, there is an astringent quality, that is most mischievous in these
cases: it is said there is often alum in it: how pregnant with mischief that must be to persons
whose bowels require to be kept open, is most evident. Summer fruits perfectly ripe are not
only harmless but medicinal; but if eaten unripe they will be very prejudicial. A light supper,
which will leave an appetite for a milk breakfast, is always right; this will not let the stomach
be ravenous for dinner, as it is apt to be in those who make that their only meal.

One caution more must be given, and it may seem a strange one: it is that the patient attend
regularly to his hours of eating. We have to do with men for the most part whose soul is the
great object of their regard; but let them not forget they have a body.

The late Dr. STUKELY has told me, that one day by appointment visiting Sir ISAAC NEWTON, the
servant told him, he was in his study. No one was permitted to disturb him there; but as it
was near dinner time, the visitor sat down to wait for him. After a time dinner was brought
in; a boil'd chicken under a cover. An hour pass'd, and Sir ISAAC did not appear. The doctor
eat the fowl, and covering up the empty dish, bad them dress their master another. Before that
was ready, the great man came down; he apologiz'd for his delay, and added, "give me but leave
to take my short dinner, and I shall be at your service; I am fatigued and faint." Saying this,
he lifted up the cover; and without any emotion, turned about to STUKELY with a smile; "See
says he, what we studious people are, I forgot I had din'd."

SECT. VIII.

The MEDICINE.

'Tis the ill fate of this disease, more than of all others to be misunderstood at first, and
thence neglected; till the physician shakes his head at a few first questions. None steals
so fatally upon the sufferer: its advances are by very slow degrees; but every day it grows
more difficult of cure.

That this obstruction in the spleen is the true malady, the cases related by the antients,
present observation, and the unerring testimonies of dissections leave no room to doubt. Being
understood, the path is open where to seek a remedy: and our best guides in this, as in the
former instance, will be those venerable Greeks; who saw a thousand of these cases, where we
see one; and with less than half our theory, cured twice as many patients.

One established doctrine holds place in all these writers; that whatever by a hasty fermentation
dissolves the impacted matter of the obstruction, and sends it in that state into the blood,
does incredible mischief: but that whatever medicine softens it by slow degrees, and, as it
melts, delivers it to the bowels without disturbance; will cure with equal certainty and safety.

For this good purpose, they knew and tried a multitude of herbs; but in the end they fixed
on one: and on their repeated trials of this, they banished all the rest. This stood alone
for the cure of the disease; and from its virtue received the name of SPLEEN-WORT[21]. O wise
and happy Greeks! authors of knowledge and perpetuators of it! With them the very name they
gave a plant declared its virtues: with us, a writer calls a plant from some friend; that the
good gardener who receives the honour, may call another by his name who gave it. We now add
the term smooth to this herb, to distinguish it from another, called by the same general term,
though not much resembling it.

In the Greek Islands now, the use of it is known to every one; and even the lazy monks who
take it, are no longer splenetic. In the west of England, the rocks are stripped of it with
diligence; and every old woman tells you how charming that leaf is for bookish men: in Russia
they use a plant of this kind in their malt liquor: it came into fashion there for the cure
of this disease; which from its constant use is scarce known any longer; and they suppose 'tis
added to their liquor for a flavour.

The ancients held it in a kind of veneration; and used what has been called a superstition
in the gathering it. It was to be taken up with a sharp knife, without violence, and laid upon
the clean linen: no time but the still darkness of the night was proper, and even the moon
was not to shine upon it[22]. I know they have been ridiculed for this; for nothing is so vain
as learned ignorance: but let me be permitted once to vindicate them.

The plant has leaves that can close in their sides; and their under part is covered thick with
a yellow powder, consisting of the seeds, and seed vessels: in these they knew the virtue most
resided: this was the golden dust[23] they held so valuable; and this they knew they could
not be too cautious to preserve. They were not ignorant of the sleep of plants; a matter lately
spoken of by some, as if a new discovery; and being sensible that light, a dry air, an expanded
leaf, and a tempestuous season, were the means of losing this fine dust; and knowing also that
darkness alone brought on that closing of the leaf which thence has been called sleep; and
which helped to defend and to secure it, they therefore took such time, and used such means
as could best preserve the plant entire; and even save what might be scattered from it.--And
now where is their superstition?

From this plant thus collected they prepared a medicine, which in a course of forty days scarce
ever failed to make a perfect cure.

We have the plant wild with us; and till the fashion of rough chemical preparations took off
our attention from these gentler remedies, it was in frequent use and great repute. I trust
it will be so again: and many thank me for restoring it to notice.

Spleen-wort gives out its virtues freely in a tincture; and a small dose of this, mixing readily
with the blood and juices, gradually dissolves the obstruction; and by a little at a time delivers
its contents to be thrown off without pain, from the bowels. Let this be done while the viscera
are yet sound and the cure is perfect. More than the forty days of the Greek method is scarce
ever required; much oftener two thirds of that time suffice; and every day, from the first
dose of it, the patient feels the happy change that is growing in his constitution. His food
no more turns putrid on his stomach, but yields its healthful nourishment. The swelling after
meals therefore vanishes; and with that goes the lowness, and anxiety, the difficult breath,
and the distracting cholick: he can bear the approach of rainy weather without pain; he finds
himself more apt for motion, and ready to take that exercise which is to be assistant in his
cure; life seems no longer burthensome. His bowels get into the natural condition of health,
and perform their office once at least a day; better if a little more: the dull and dead colour
of his skin goes off, his lips grow red again, and every sign of health returns.

Let him who takes the medicine, say whether any thing here be exaggerated. Let him, if he pleases
to give himself the trouble, talk over with me, or write to me, this gradual decrease of his
complaints, as he proceeds in his cure. My uncertain state of health does not permit me to
practise physic in the usual way, but I am very desirous to do what good I can, and shall never
refuse my advice, such as it may be, to any person rich or poor, in whatever manner he may
apply for it. I shall refer him to no apothecary, whose bills require he should be drenched
with potions; but tell him, in this as in all other cases, where to find some simple herb;
which he may if he please prepare himself; or if he had rather spare that trouble, may have
it so prepared from me.

With regard to Spleen-wort, no method of using it is more effectual than simply taking it in
powder; the only advantage of a tincture, is that a proper dose may be given, and yet the stomach
not be loaded with so large a quantity: it is an easier and pleasanter method, and nothing more.

If any person choose to take it in the other way, I should still wish him once at least to
apply to me; that he may be assured what he is about to take is the right plant. Abuses in
medicines are at this time very great, and in no instance worse than what relates to herbs.
The best of our physicians have complained upon this head with warmth, but without redress:
they know the virtues and the value of many of our native plants, but dread to prescribe them;
lest some wrong thing should be administered in their place; perhaps inefficacious, perhaps
mischievous, nay it may be fatal. The few simple things I direct are always before me; and
it will at all times be a pleasure to me, in this and any other instance, to see whether what
any person is about to take be right. I have great obligations to the public, and this is the
best return that I know how to make.

To see the need of such a caution, hear a transaction but of yesterday! Such is the chance
of health in those hands through which the best means of it usually pass; even in the most
regular course of application.

I would not be understood to limit the little services I may this way be able to render the
afflicted, to this single instance; much less to propose to myself any advantages from it.
Whoever pleases will be welcome to me, upon any such occasion; and whatever be the herb on
which he places a dependance, he shall be shewn it growing. I once recommended a garden to
be established for this use, at the public expence: one great person has put it in my power
to answer all its purposes.

132. Walter Harte, An Essay on Satire, Particularly on the Dunciad (1730).

[19] Biberg.

[20] Reaumur.

[21] asplenon

[22] Silente Luna.

[23] Pulvis Aureus.

      *      *      *      *      *

  Long "s" has been modernized.

  Page 21 contains two markers referring to the same footnote.

  The original text contains two sections labeled "Sect. V." (page v)
    "sympton" corrected to "symptom" (page 14)
    "symptons" corrected to "symptoms"

