No circumstances could be more unfavourable to the best interests of Europe, than those which
placed England in strict alliance with the superannuated and abominable governments of the
continent. The subjects of those governments who wished for freedom thus became enemies to
England, and dupes and agents of France. They looked to their own grinding grievances, and
did not see the danger with which the liberties of the world were threatened. England, on the
other hand, saw the danger in its true magnitude, but was blind to these grievances, and found
herself compelled to support systems which had formerly been equally the object of her abhorrence
and her contempt. This was the state of Nelson's mind; he knew that there could be no peace
for Europe till the pride of France was humbled, and her strength broken; and he regarded all
those who were the friends of France as traitors to the common cause, as well as to their own
individual sovereigns. There are situations in which the most opposite and hostile parties
may mean equally well, and yet act equally wrong. The court of Naples, unconscious of committing
any crime by continuing the system of misrule to which they had succeeded, conceived that,
in maintaining things as they were, they were maintaining their own rights, and preserving
the people from such horrors as had been perpetrated in France. The Neapolitan revolutionists
thought that without a total change of system, any relief from the present evils was impossible,
and they believed themselves justified in bringing about that change by any means. Both parties
knew that it was the fixed intention of the French to revolutionise Naples. The revolutionists
supposed that it was for the purpose of establishing a free government; the court, and all
disinterested persons, were perfectly aware that the enemy had no other object than conquest
and plunder.

The battle of the Nile shook the power of France. Her most successful general, and her finest
army, were blocked up in Egypt--hopeless, as it appeared, of return; and the government was
in the hands of men without talents, without character, and divided among themselves. Austria,
whom Buonaparte had terrified into a peace, at a time when constancy on her part would probably
have led to his destruction, took advantage of the crisis to renew the war. Russia also was
preparing to enter the field with unbroken forces, led by a general, whose extraordinary military
genius would have entitled him to a high and honourable rank in history, if it had not been
sullied by all the ferocity of a barbarian. Naples, seeing its destruction at hand, and thinking
that the only means of averting it was by meeting the danger, after long vacillations, which
were produced by the fears and treachery of its council, agreed at last to join this new coalition
with a numerical force of 80,000 men. Nelson told the king, in plain terms, that he had his
choice, either to advance, trusting to God for his blessing on a just cause, and prepared to
die sword in hand, or to remain quiet, and be kicked out of his kingdom; one of these things
must happen. The king made answer he would go on, and trust in God and Nelson; and Nelson,
who would else have returned to Egypt, for the purpose of destroying the French shipping in
Alexandria, gave up his intention at the desire of the Neapolitan court, and resolved to remain
on that station, in the hope that he might be useful to the movements of the army. He suspected
also, with reason, that the continuance of his fleet was so earnestly requested, because the
royal family thought their persons would be safer, in case of any mishap, under the British
flag, than under their own.

His first object was the recovery of Malta--an island which the King of Naples pretended to
claim. The Maltese, whom the villanous knights of their order had betrayed to France, had taken
up arms against their rapacious invaders, with a spirit and unanimity worthy of the highest
praise. They blockaded the French garrison by land, and a small squadron, under Captain Ball,
began to blockade them by sea, on the 12th of October. Twelve days afterwards Nelson arrived.
"It is as I suspected," he says: "the ministers at Naples know nothing of the situation of
the island. Not a house or bastion of the town is in possession of the islanders: and the Marquis
de Niza tells us they want arms, victuals, and support. He does not know that any Neapolitan
officers are on the island; perhaps, although I have their names, none are arrived; and it
is very certain, by the marquis's account, that no supplies have been sent by the governors
of Syracuse and Messina." The little island of Gozo, dependent upon Malta, which had also been
seized and garrisoned by the French, capitulated soon after his arrival, and was taken possession
of by the British, in the name of his Sicilian Majesty--a power who had no better claim to
it than France. Having seen this effected, and reinforced Captain Ball, he left that able officer
to perform a most arduous and important part, and returned himself to cooperate with the intended
movements of the Neapolitans.

General Mack was at the head of the Neapolitan troops. All that is now doubtful concerning
this man is, whether he was a coward or a traitor. At that time he was assiduously extolled
as a most consummate commander, to whom Europe might look for deliverance. And when he was
introduced by the king and queen to the British admiral, the queen said to him, "Be to us by
land, general, what my hero Nelson has been by sea." Mack, on his part, did not fail to praise
the force which he was appointed to command. "It was," he said, "the finest army in Europe."
Nelson agreed with him that there could not be finer men; but when the general, at a review,
so directed the operations of a mock fight, that by an unhappy blunder his own troops were
surrounded, instead of those of the enemy, he turned to his friends and exclaimed with bitterness,
that the fellow did not understand his business. Another circumstance, not less characteristic,
confirmed Nelson in his judgment. "General Mack:" said he, in one of his letters, "cannot move
without five carriages! I have formed my opinion. I heartily pray I may be mistaken."

While Mack, at the head of 32,000 men, marched into the Roman state, 5000 Neapolitans were
embarked on board the British and Portuguese squadron, to take possession of Leghorn. This
was effected without opposition; and the Grand Duke of Tuscany, whose neutrality had been so
outrageously violated by the French, was better satisfied with the measure than some of the
Neapolitans themselves. Nasseli, their general, refused to seize the French vessels at Leghorn,
because he and the Duke di Sangro, who was ambassador at the Tuscan court, maintained that
the king of Naples was not at war with France. "What!" said Nelson, "has not the king received,
as a conquest made by him, the republican flag taken at Gozo? Is not his own flag flying there,
and at Malta, not only by his permission, but by his order? Is not his flag shot at every day
by the French, and their shot returned from batteries which bear that flag? Are not two frigates
and a corvette placed under my orders ready to fight the French, meet them where they may?
Has not the king sent publicly from Naples guns, mortars, &c., with officers and artillery,
against the French in Malta? If these acts are not tantamount to any written paper, I give
up all knowledge of what is war." This reasoning was of less avail than argument addressed
to the general's fears. Nelson told him that, if he permitted the many hundred French who were
then in the mole to remain neutral, till they had a fair opportunity of being active, they
had one sure resource, if all other schemes failed, which was to set one vessel on fire; the
mole would be destroyed, probably the town also, and the port ruined for twenty years. This
representation made Naselli agree to the half measure of laying an embargo on the vessels;
among them were a great number of French privateers, some of which were of such force as to
threaten the greatest mischief to our commerce, and about seventy sail of vessels belonging
to the Ligurian republic, as Genoa was now called, laden with corn, and ready to sail for Genoa
and France; where their arrival would have expedited the entrance of more French troops into
Italy. "The general," said Nelson, "saw, I believe, the consequence of permitting these vessels
to depart, in the same light as myself; but there is this difference between us: he prudently,
and certainly safely, waits the orders of his court, taking no responsibility upon himself;
I act from the circumstances of the moment, as I feel may be most advantageous for the cause
which I serve, taking all responsibility on myself." It was in vain to hope for anything vigorous
or manly from such men as Nelson was compelled to act with. The crews of the French ships and
their allies were ordered to depart in two days. Four days elapsed and nobody obeyed the order;
nor, in spite of the representations of the British minister, Mr. Wyndham, were any means taken
to enforce it: the true Neapolitan shuffle, as Nelson called it, took place on all occasions.
After an absence of ten days he returned to Naples; and receiving intelligence there from Mr.
Wyndham that the privateers were at last to be disarmed, the corn landed, and the crews sent
away, he expressed his satisfaction at the news in characteristic language, saying, "So far
I am content. The enemy will be distressed; and, thank God, I shall get no money. The world,
I know, think that money is our god; and now they will be undeceived as far as relates to us.
Down, down with the French! is my constant prayer."

Odes, sonnets, and congratulatory poems of every description were poured in upon Nelson on
his arrival at Naples. An Irish Franciscan, who was one of the poets, not being content with
panegyric upon this occasion, ventured on a flight of prophecy, and predicted that Lord Nelson
would take Rome with his ships. His lordship reminded Father M'Cormick that ships could not
ascend the Tiber; but the father, who had probably forgotten this circumstance, met the objection
with a bold front, and declared he saw that it would come to pass notwithstanding. Rejoicings
of this kind were of short duration. The King of Naples was with the army which had entered
Rome; but the castle of St. Angelo was held by the French, and 13,000 French were strongly
posted in the Roman states at Castallana. Mack had marched against them with 20,000 men. Nelson
saw that the event was doubtful, or rather that there could be very little hope of the result.
But the immediate fate of Naples, as he well knew, hung upon the issue. "If Mack is defeated,"
said he, "in fourteen days this country is lost; for the emperor has not yet moved his army,
and Naples has not the power of resisting the enemy. It was not a case for choice, but of necessity,
which induced the king to march out of his kingdom, and not wait till the French had collected
a force sufficient to drive him out of it in a week." He had no reliance upon the Neapolitan
officers, who, as he described them, seemed frightened at a drawn sword or a loaded gun; and
he was perfectly aware of the consequences which the sluggish movements and deceitful policy
of the Austrians were likely to bring down upon themselves and all their continental allies.
"A delayed war on the part of the emperor," said he, writing to the British minister at Vienna,
"will be destructive to this monarchy of Naples; and, of course, to the newly-acquired dominions
of the Emperor in Italy. Had the war commenced in September or October, all Italy would, at
this moment, have been liberated. This month is worse than the last; the next will render the
contest doubtful; and, in six months, when the Neapolitan republic will be organised, armed,
and with its numerous resources called forth, the emperor will not only be defeated in Italy,
but will totter on his throne at Vienna. DOWN, DOWN WITH THE FRENCH! ought to be written in
the council-room of every country in the world; and may Almighty God give right thoughts to
every sovereign, is my constant prayer!" His perfect foresight of the immediate event was clearly
shown in this letter, when he desired the ambassador to assure the empress (who was a daughter
of the house of Naples) that, notwithstanding the councils which had shaken the throne of her
father and mother, he would remain there, ready to save their persons, and her brothers and
sisters; and that he had also left ships at Leghorn to save the lives of the grand duke and
her sister: "For all," said he, "must be a republic, if the emperor does not act with expedition
and vigour."

His fears were soon verified. "The Neapolitan officers," said Nelson, "did not lose much honour,
for, God knows, they had not much to lose; but they lost all they had." General St. Philip
commanded the right wing, of 19,000 men. He fell in with 3000 of the enemy; and, as soon as
he came near enough, deserted to them. One of his men had virtue enough to level a musket at
him, and shot him through the arm; but the wound was not sufficient to prevent him from joining
with the French in pursuit of his own countrymen. Cannon, tents, baggage, and military chest,
were all forsaken by the runaways, though they lost only forty men; for the French having put
them to flight and got possession of everything, did not pursue an army of more than three
times their own number. The main body of the Neapolitans, under Mack, did not behave better.
The king returned to Naples, where every day brought with it tidings of some new disgrace from
the army and the discovery of some new treachery at home; till, four days after his return,
the general sent him advice that there was no prospect of stopping the progress of the enemy,
and that the royal family must look to their own personal safety. The state of the public mind
at Naples was such, at this time, that neither the British minister nor the British Admiral
thought it prudent to appear at court. Their motions were watched; and the revolutionists had
even formed a plan for seizing and detaining them as hostages, to prevent an attack on the
city after the French should have taken possession of it. A letter which Nelson addressed at
this time to the First Lord of the Admiralty, shows in what manner he contemplated the possible
issue of the storm, it was in these words:--"My dear lord, there is an old saying, that when
things are at the worst they must mend: now the mind of man cannot fancy things worse than
they are here. But, thank God! my health is better, my mind never firmer, and my heart in the
right trim to comfort, relieve, and protect those whom it is my duty to afford assistance to.
Pray, my lord, assure our gracious sovereign that while I live, I will support his glory; and
that if I fall, it shall be in a manner worthy of your lordship's faithful and obliged Nelson.
I must not write more. Every word may be a text for a long letter."

Meantime Lady Hamilton arranged every thing for the removal of the royal family. This was conducted
on her part with the greatest address, and without suspicion, because she had been in habits
of constant correspondence with the queen. It was known that the removal could not be effected
without danger; for the mob, and especially the lazzaroni, were attached to the king; and as
at this time they felt a natural presumption in their own numbers and strength, they insisted
that he should not leave Naples. Several persons fell victims to their fury; among others was
a messenger from Vienna, whose body was dragged under the windows of the palace in the king's
sight. The king and queen spoke to the mob, and pacified them; but it would not have been safe,
while they were in this agitated state, to have embarked the effects of the royal family openly.
Lady Hamilton, like a heroine of modern romance, explored with no little danger a subterraneous
passage leading from the palace to the sea-side: through this passage the royal treasures,
the choicest pieces of painting and sculpture, and other property to the amount of two millions
and a half, were conveyed to the shore, and stowed safely on board the English ships. On the
night of the 21st, at half-past eight, Nelson landed, brought out the whole royal family, embarked
them in three barges, and carried them safely, through a tremendous sea, to the VANGUARD. Notice
was then immediately given to the British merchants, that they would be received on board any
ships in the squadron. Their property had previously been embarked in transports. Two days
were passed in the bay, for the purpose of taking such persons on board as required an asylum;
and, on the night of the 23rd, the fleet sailed. The next day a more violent storm arose than
Nelson had ever before encountered. On the 25th, the youngest of the princes was taken ill,
and died in Lady Hamilton's arms. During this whole trying season, Lady Hamilton waited upon
the royal family with the zeal of the most devoted servant, at a time when, except one man,
no person belonging to the court assisted them.

On the morning of the 26th the royal family were landed at Palermo. It was soon seen that their
flight had not been premature. Prince Pignatelli, who had been left as vicar-general and viceroy,
with orders to defend the kingdom to the last rock in Calabria, sent plenipotentiaries to the
French camp before Capua; and they, for the sake of saving the capital, signed an armistice,
by which the greater part of the kingdom was given up to the enemy: a cession that necessarily
led to the loss of the whole. This was on the 10th of January. The French advanced towards
Naples. Mack, under pretext of taking shelter from the fury of the lazzaroni, fled to the French
General Championet, who sent him under an escort to Milan; but as France hoped for further
services from this wretched traitor, it was thought prudent to treat him apparently as a prisoner
of war. The Neapolitan army disappeared in a few days: of the men, some, following their officers,
deserted to the enemy; the greater part took the opportunity of disbanding themselves. The
lazzaroni proved true to their country; they attacked the enemy's advanced posts, drove them
in, and were not dispirited by the murderous defeat which they suffered from the main body.
Flying into the city, they continued to defend it, even after the French had planted their
artillery in the principal streets. Had there been a man of genius to have directed their enthusiasm,
or had there been any correspondent feelings in the higher ranks, Naples might have set a glorious
example to Europe, and have proved the grave of every Frenchman who entered it. But the vices
of the government had extinguished all other patriotism than that of the rabble, who had no
other than that sort of loyalty which was like the fidelity of a dog to its master. This fidelity
the French and their adherents counteracted by another kind of devotion: the priests affirmed
that St. Januarius had declared in favour of the revolution. The miracle of his blood was performed
with the usual success, and more than usual effect, on the very evening when, after two days
of desperate fighting, the French obtained possession of Naples. A French guard of honour was
stationed at his church. Championet gave, "Respect for St. Januarius!" as the word for the
army; and the next day TE DEUM was sung by the archbishop in the cathedral; and the inhabitants
were invited to attend the ceremony, and join in thanksgiving for the glorious entry of the
French; who, it was said, being under the peculiar protection of Providence, had regenerated
the Neapolitans, and were come to establish and consolidate their happiness.

It seems to have been Nelson's opinion that the Austrian cabinet regarded the conquest of Naples
with complacency, and that its measures were directed so as designedly not to prevent the French
from overrunning it. That cabinet was assuredly capable of any folly, and of any baseness;
and it is not improbable that at this time, calculating upon the success of the new coalition,
it indulged a dream of adding extensively to its former Italian possessions; and, therefore,
left the few remaining powers of Italy to be overthrown, as a means which would facilitate
its own ambitious views. The King of Sardinia, finding it impossible longer to endure the exactions
of France and the insults of the French commissary, went to Leghorn, embarked on board a Danish
frigate, and sailed, under British protection, to Sardinia--that part of his dominions which
the maritime supremacy of England rendered a secure asylum. On his arrival he published a protest
against the conduct of France, declaring, upon the faith and word of a king, that he had never
infringed, even in the slightest degree, the treaties which he had made with the French republic.
Tuscany was soon occupied by French troops--a fate which bolder policy might, perhaps, have
failed to avert, but which its weak and timid neutrality rendered inevitable. Nelson began
to fear even for Sicily. "Oh, my dear sir," said he, writing to Commodore Duckworth, "one thousand
English troops would save Messina; and I fear General Stuart cannot give me men to save this
most important island!" But his representations were not lost upon Sir Charles Stuart. This
officer hastened immediately from Minorca with 1000 men, assisted in the measures of defence
which were taken, and did not return before he had satisfied himself that, if the Neapolitans
were excluded from the management of affairs, and the spirit of the peasantry properly directed,
Sicily was safe. Before his coming, Nelson had offered the king, if no resources should arrive,
to defend Messina with the ship's company of an English man-of-war.

Russia had now entered into the war. Corfu, surrendered to a Russian and Turkish fleet, acting
now, for the first time, in strange confederacy yet against a power which was certainly the
common and worst enemy of both. Troubridge having given up the blockade of Alexandria to Sir
Sidney Smith, joined Nelson, bringing with him a considerable addition of strength; and in
himself what Nelson valued more, a man, upon whose sagacity, indefatigable zeal, and inexhaustible
resources, he could place full reliance. Troubridge was intrusted to commence the operations
against the French in the bay of Naples. Meantime Cardinal Ruffo, a man of questionable character,
but of a temper fitted for such times, having landed in Calabria, raised what he called a Christian
army, composed of the best and the vilest materials--loyal peasants, enthusiastic priests and
friars, galley slaves, the emptying of the jails, and banditti. The islands in the bay of Naples
were joyfully delivered up by the inhabitants, who were in a state of famine already, from
the effect of this baleful revolution. Troubridge distributed among them all his flour, and
Nelson pressed the Sicilian court incessantly for supplies; telling them that L10,000 given
away in provisions would, at this time, purchase a kingdom. Money, he was told, they had not
to give; and the wisdom and integrity which might have supplied its wants were not to be found.
"There is nothing," said he, "which I propose, that is not, so far as orders go, implicitly
complied with; but the execution is dreadful, and almost makes me mad. My desire to serve their
majesties faithfully, as is my duty, has been such that I am almost blind and worn out; and
cannot in my present state hold out much longer."

Before any government can be overthrown by the consent of the people, the government must be
intolerably oppressive, or the people thoroughly corrupted. Bad as the misrule at Naples had
been, its consequences had been felt far less there than in Sicily; and the peasantry had that
attachment to the soil which gives birth to so many of the noblest as well as of the happiest
feelings. In all the islands the people were perfectly frantic with joy when they saw the Neapolitan
colours hoisted. At Procida, Troubridge could not procure even a rag of the tri-coloured flag
to lay at the king's feet: it was rent into ten thousand pieces by the inhabitants, and entirely
destroyed. "The horrid treatment of the French," he said, "had made them mad." It exasperated
the ferocity of a character which neither the laws nor the religion under which they lived
tended to mitigate. Their hatred was especially directed against the Neapolitan revolutionists;
and the fishermen, in concert among themselves, chose each his own victim, whom he would stiletto
when the day of vengeance should arrive. The head of one was sent off one morning to Troubridge,
with his basket of grapes for breakfast; and a note from the Italian who had, what he called,
the glory of presenting it, saying, he had killed the man as he was running away, and begging
his excellency to accept the head, and consider it as a proof of the writer's attachment to
the crown. With the first successes of the court the work of punishment began. The judge at
Ischia said it was necessary to have a bishop to degrade the traitorous priests before he could
execute them; upon which Troubridge advised him to hang them first, and send them to him afterwards,
if he did not think that degradation sufficient. This was said with the straightforward feeling
of a sailor, who cared as little for canon-law as he knew about it; but when he discovered
that the judge's orders were to go through the business in a summary manner, under his sanction,
he told him at once that could not be, for the prisoners were not British subjects; and he
declined having anything to do with it. There were manifestly persons about the court, who,
while they thirsted for the pleasure of vengeance, were devising how to throw the odium of
it upon the English. They wanted to employ an English man-of-war to carry the priests to Palermo
for degradation, and then bring them back for execution; and they applied to Troubridge for
a hangman, which he indignantly refused. He, meantime, was almost heartbroken by the situation
in which he found himself. He had promised relief to the islanders, relying upon the queen's
promise to him. He had distributed the whole of his private stock,--there was plenty of grain
at Palermo, and in its neighbourhood, and yet none was sent him: the enemy, he complained,
had more interest there than the king; and the distress for bread which he witnessed was such,
he said, that it would move even a Frenchman to pity.

Nelson's heart, too, was at this time a-shore. "To tell you," he says, writing to Lady Hamilton,
"how dreary and uncomfortable the VANGUARD appears, is only telling you what it is to go from
the pleasantest society to a solitary cell, or from the dearest friends to no friends. I am
now perfectly the GREAT MAN--not a creature near me. From my heart I wish myself the little
man again. You and good Sir William have spoiled me for any place but with you."

