XIV. In so populous and so corrupt a city, Catiline, as it was very easy to do, kept about
him, like a body-guard, crowds of the unprincipled and desperate. For all those shameless,
libertine, and profligate characters, who had dissipated their patrimonies by gaming,[78] luxury,
and sensuality; all who had contracted heavy debts, to purchase immunity for their crimes or
offenses; all assassins[79] or sacrilegious persons from every quarter, convicted or dreading
conviction for their evil deeds; all, besides, whom their tongue or their hand maintained by
perjury or civil bloodshed; all, in fine, whom wickedness, poverty, or a guilty conscience
disquieted, were the associates and intimate friends of Catiline. And if any one, as yet of
unblemished character, fell into his society, he was presently rendered, by daily intercourse
and temptation, similar and equal to the rest. But it was the young whose acquaintance he chiefly
courted; as their minds, ductile and unsettled from their age, were easily insnared by his
stratagems. For as the passions of each, according to his years, appeared excited, he furnished
mistresses to some, bought horses and dogs for others, and spared, in a word, neither his purse
nor his character, if he could but make them his devoted and trustworthy supporters. There
were some, I know, who thought that the youth, who frequented the house of Catiline, were guilty
of crimes against nature; but this report arose rather from other causes than from any evidence
of the fact[80].

XV. Catiline, in his youth, had been guilty of many criminal connections, with a virgin of
noble birth[81], with a priestess of Vesta[82], and of many other offenses of this nature,
in defiance alike of law and religion. At last, when he was smitten with a passion for Aurelia
Orestilla[83], in whom no good man, at any time of her life, commended any thing but her beauty,
it is confidently believed that because she hesitated to marry him, from the dread of having
a grown-up step-son[84], he cleared the house for their nuptials by putting his son to death.
And this crime appears to me to have been the chief cause of hurrying forward the conspiracy.
For his guilty mind, at peace with neither gods nor men, found no comfort either waking or
sleeping; so effectually did conscience desolate his tortured spirit.[85] His complexion, in
consequence, was pale, his eyes haggard, his walk sometimes quick and sometimes slow, and distraction
was plainly apparent in every feature and look.

XVI. The young men, whom, as I said before, he had enticed to join him, he initiated, by various
methods, in evil practices. From among them he furnished false witnesses,[86] and forgers of
signatures; and he taught them all to regard, with equal unconcern, honor, property, and danger.
At length, when he had stripped them of all character and shame, he led them to other and greater
enormities. If a motive for crime did not readily occur, he incited them, nevertheless, to
circumvent and murder inoffensive persons[87] just as if they had injured him; for, lest their
hand or heart should grow torpid for want of employment, he chose to be gratuitously wicked
and cruel.

Depending on such accomplices and adherents, and knowing that the load of debt was every where
great, and that the veterans of Sylla,[88] having spent their money too liberally, and remembering
their spoils and former victory, were longing for a civil war, Catiline formed the design of
overthrowing the government. There was no army in Italy; Pompey was fighting in a distant part
of the world;[89] he himself had great hopes of obtaining the consulship; the senate was wholly
off its guard;[90] every thing was quiet and tranquil; and all those circumstances were exceedingly
favorable for Catiline.

XVII. Accordingly, about the beginning of June, in the consulship of Lucius Caesar[91] and
Caius Figulus, he at first addressed each of his accomplices separately, encouraged some, and
sounded others, and informed them, of his own resources, of the unprepared condition of the
state, and of the great prizes to be expected from the conspiracy. When he had ascertained,
to his satisfaction, all that he required, he summoned all whose necessities were the most
urgent, and whose spirits were the most daring, to a general conference.

At that meeting there were present, of senatorial rank, Publius Lentulus Sura,[92] Publius
Autronius,[93] Lucius Cassius Longinus,[94] Caius Cethegus,[95] Publius and Servius Sylla[96]
the sons of Servius Sylla, Lucius Vargunteius,[97] Quintus Annius,[98] Marcus Porcius Laeca,[99]
Lucius Bestia,[100] Quintus Curius;[101] and, of the equestrian order, Marcus Fulvius Nobilior,[102]
Lucius Statilius,[103] Publius Gabinius Capito,[104] Caius Cornelius;[105] with many from the
colonies and municipal towns,[106] persons of consequence in their own localities. There were
many others, too, among the nobility, concerned in the plot, but less openly: men whom the
hope of power, rather than poverty or any other exigence, prompted to join in the affair. But
most of the young men, and especially the sons of the nobility, favored the schemes of Catiline;
they who had abundant means of living at ease, either splendidly or voluptuously, preferred
uncertainties to certainties, war to peace. There were some, also, at that time, who believed
that Marcus Licinius Crassus[107] was not unacquainted with the conspiracy; because Cneius
Pompey, whom he hated, was at the head of a large army, and he was willing that the power of
any one whomsoever should raise itself against Pompey's influence; trusting, at the same time,
that if the plot should succeed, he would easily place himself at the head of the conspirators.

XVIII. But previously[108] to this period, a small number of persons, among whom was Catiline,
had formed a design against the state: of which affair I shall here give as accurate account
as I am able. Under the consulship of Lucius Tullus and Marcus Lepidus, Publius Autronius and
Publius Sylla,[109] having been tried for bribery under the laws against it,[110] had paid
the penalty of the offense. Shortly after Catiline, being brought to trial for extortion,[111]
had been prevented from standing for the consulship, because he had been unable to declare
himself a candidate within the legitimate number of days.[112] There was at that time, too,
a young patrician of the most daring spirit, needy and discontented, named Cneius Piso,[113]
whom poverty and vicious principles instigated to disturb the government. Catiline and Autronius,[114]
having concerted measures with this Piso, prepared to assassinate the consuls, Lucius Cotta
and Lucius Torquatus, in the Capitol, on the first of January,[115] when they, having seized
on the fasces, were to send Piso with an army to take possession of the two Spains.[116] But
their design being discovered, they postponed the assassination to the fifth of February; when
they meditated the destruction, not of the consuls only, but of most of the senate. And had
not Catiline, who was in front of the senate-house, been too hasty to give the signal to his
associates, there would that day have been perpetrated the most atrocious outrage since the
city of Rome was founded. But as the armed conspirators had not yet assembled in sufficient
numbers, the want of force frustrated the design.

XIX. Some time afterward, Piso was sent as quaestor, with Praetorian authority, into Hither
Spain; Crassus promoting the appointment, because he knew him to be a bitter enemy to Cneius
Pompey. Nor were the senate, indeed, unwilling[117] to grant him the province; for they wished
so infamous a character to be removed from the seat of government; and many worthy men, at
the same time, thought that there was some security in him against the power of Pompey, which
was then becoming formidable. But this Piso, on his march toward his province, was murdered
by some Spanish cavalry whom he had in his army. These barbarians, as some say, had been unable
to endure his unjust, haughty, and cruel orders; but others assert that this body of cavalry,
being old and trusty adherents of Pompey, attacked Piso at his instigation; since the Spaniards,
they observed, had never before committed such an outrage, but had patiently submitted to many
severe commands. This question we shall leave undecided. Of the first conspiracy enough has
been said.

XX. When Catiline saw those, whom I have just above mentioned,[118] assembled, though he had
often discussed many points with them singly, yet thinking it would be to his purpose to address
and exhort them in a body, retired with them into a private apartment of his house, where,
when all witnesses were withdrawn, he harangued them to the following effect:

"If your courage and fidelity had not been sufficiently proved by me, this favorable opportunity[119]
would have occurred to no purpose; mighty hopes, absolute power, would in vain be within our
grasp; nor should I, depending on irresolution or ficklemindedness, pursue contingencies instead
of certainties. But as I have, on many remarkable occasions, experienced your bravery and attachment
to me, I have ventured to engage in a most important and glorious enterprise. I am aware, too,
that whatever advantages or evils affect you, the same affect me; and to have the same desires
and the same aversions, is assuredly a firm bond of friendship.

"What I have been meditating you have already heard separately. But my ardor for action is
daily more and more excited, when I consider what our future condition of life must be, unless
we ourselves assert our claims to liberty.[120] For since the government has fallen under the
power and jurisdiction of a few, kings and princes[121] have constantly been their tributaries;
nations and states have paid them taxes; but all the rest of us, however brave and worthy,
whether noble or plebeian, have been regarded as a mere mob, without interest or authority,
and subject to those, to whom, if the state were in a sound condition, we should be a terror.
Hence, all influence, power, honor, and wealth, are in their hands, or where they dispose of
them: to us they have left only insults,[122] dangers, persecutions, and poverty. To such indignities,
O bravest of men, how long will you submit? Is it not better to die in a glorious attempt,
than, after having been the sport of other men's insolence, to resign a wretched and degraded
existence with ignominy?

"But success (I call gods and men to witness!) is in our own hands. Our years are fresh, our
spirit is unbroken; among our oppressors, on the contrary, through age and wealth a general
debility has been produced. We have therefore only to make a beginning; the course of events[123]
will accomplish the rest.

"Who in the world, indeed, that has the feelings of a man, can endure that they should have
a superfluity of riches, to squander in building over seas[124] and leveling mountains, and
that means should be wanting to us even for the necessaries of life; that they should join
together two houses or more, and that we should not have a hearth to call our own? They, though
they purchase pictures, statues, and embossed plate; [125] though they pull down now buildings
and erect others, and lavish and abuse their wealth in every possible method; yet can not,
with the utmost efforts of caprice, exhaust it. But for us there is poverty at home, debts
abroad; our present circumstances are bad, our prospects much worse; and what, in a word, have
we left, but a miserable existence?

"Will you not, then, awake to action? Behold that liberty, that liberty for which you have
so often wished, with wealth, honor, and glory, are set before your eyes. All these prizes
fortune offers to the victorious. Let the enterprise itself, then, let the opportunity, let
your poverty, your dangers, and the glorious spoils of war, animate you far more than my words.
Use me either as your leader or your fellow-soldier; neither my heart nor my hand shall be
wanting to you. These objects I hope to effect, in concert with you, in the character of consul;
unless, indeed, my expectation deceives me, and you prefer to be slaves rather than masters."

XXI. When these men, surrounded with numberless evils, but without any resources or hopes of
good, had heard this address, though they thought it much for their advantage to disturb the
public tranquillity, yet most of them called on Catiline to state on what terms they were to
engage in the contest; what benefits they were to expect from taking up arms; and what support
and encouragement they had, and in what quarters. [126] Catiline then promised them the abolition
of their debts;[127] a proscription of the wealthy citizens;[128] offices, sacerdotal dignities,
plunder, and all other gratifications which war, and the license of conquerors, can afford.
He added that Piso was in Hither Spain, and Publius Sittius Nucerinus with an army in Mauritania,
both of whom were privy to his plans; that Caius Antonius, whom he hoped to have for a colleague,
was canvassing for the consulship, a man with whom he was intimate, and who was involved in
all manner of embarrassments; and that, in conjunction with him, he himself, when consul, would
commence operations. He, moreover, assailed all the respectable citizens with reproaches, commended
each of his associates by name, reminded one of his poverty, another of his ruling passion,[129]
several others of their danger or disgrace, and many of the spoils which they had obtained
by the victory of Sylla. When he saw their spirits sufficiently elevated, he charged them to
attend to his interest at the election of consuls, and dismissed the assembly.

XXII. There were some, at the time, who said that Catiline, having ended his speech, and wishing
to bind his accomplices in guilt by an oath, handed round among them, in goblets, the blood
of a human body mixed with wine; and that when all, after an imprecation, had tasted of it,
as is usual in sacred rites, he disclosed his design; and they asserted[130] that he did this,
in order that they might be the more closely attached to one another, by being mutually conscious
of such an atrocity. But some thought that this report, and many others, were invented by persons
who supposed that the odium against Cicero, which afterward arose, might be lessened by imputing
an enormity of guilt to the conspirators who had suffered death. The evidence which I have
obtained, in support of this charge, is not at all in proportion to its magnitude.

XXIII. Among those present at this meeting was Quintus Curius,[131] a man of no mean family,
but immersed in vices and crimes, and whom the censors had ignominiously expelled from the
senate. In this person there was not less levity than impudence; he could neither keep secret
what he heard, not conceal his own crimes; he was altogether heedless what he said or what
he did. He had long had a criminal intercourse with Fulvia, a woman of high birth; but growing
less acceptable to her, because, in his reduced circumstances, he had less means of being liberal,
he began, on a sudden, to boast, and to promise her seas and mountains;[132] threatening her,
at times, with the sword, if she were not submissive to his will; and acting, in his general
conduct, with greater arrogance than ever.[133] Fulvia, having learned the cause of his extravagant
behavior, did not keep such danger to the state a secret; but, without naming her informant,
communicated to several persons what she had heard and under what circumstances, concerning
Catiline's conspiracy. This intelligence it was that incited the feelings of the citizens to
give the consulship to Marcus Tullius Cicero.[134] For before this period, most of the nobility
were moved with jealousy, and thought the consulship in some degree sullied, if a man of no
family,[135] however meritorious, obtained it. But when danger showed itself, envy and pride
were laid aside. XXIV. Accordingly, when the comitia were held, Marcus Tullius and Caius Antonius
were declared consuls; an event which gave the first shock to the conspirators. The ardor of
Catiline, however, was not at all diminished; he formed every day new schemes; he deposited
arms, in convenient places, throughout Italy; he sent sums of money borrowed on his own credit,
or that of his friends, to a certain Manlius,[136] at Faesulae,[137] who was subsequently the
first to engage in hostilities. At this period, too, he is said to have attached to his cause
great numbers of men of all classes, and some women, who had, in their earlier days, supported
an expensive life by the price of their beauty, but who, when age had lessened their gains
but not their extravagance, had contracted heavy debts. By the influence of these females,
Catiline hoped to gain over the slaves in Rome, to get the city set on fire, and either to
secure the support of their husbands or take away their lives.

XXV. In the number of those ladies was Sempronia,[138] a woman who had committed many crimes
with the spirit of a man. In birth and beauty, in her husband and her children, she was extremely
fortunate; she was skilled in Greek and Roman literature; she could sing, play, and dance,[139]
with greater elegance than became a woman of virtue, and possessed many other accomplishments
that tend to excite the passions. But nothing was ever less valued by her than honor or chastity.
Whether she was more prodigal of her money or her reputation, it would have been difficult
to decide. Her desires were so ardent that she oftener made advances to the other sex than
waited for solicitation. She had frequently, before this period, forfeited her word, forsworn
debts, been privy to murder, and hurried into the utmost excesses by her extravagance and poverty.
But her abilities were by no means despicable;[140] she could compose verses, jest, and join
in conversation either modest, tender, or licentious. In a word, she was distinguished[141]
by much refinement of wit, and much grace of expression.

XXVI. Catiline, having made these arrangements, still canvassed for the consulship for the
following year; hoping that, if he should be elected, he would easily manage Antonius according
to his pleasure. Nor did he, in the mean time remain inactive, but devised schemes, in every
possible way, against Cicero, who, however, did not want skill or policy to guard, against
them. For, at the very beginning of his consulship, he had, by making many promises through
Fulvia, prevailed on Quintus Curius, whom I have already mentioned, to give him secret information
of Catiline's proceedings. He had also persuaded his colleague, Antonius, by an arrangement
respecting their provinces,[142] to entertain no sentiment of disaffection toward the state;
and he kept around him, though without ostentation, a guard of his friends and dependents.

When the day of the comitia came, and neither Catiline's efforts for the consulship, nor the
plots which he had laid for the consuls in the Campus Martius,[143] were attended with success,
he determined to proceed to war, and resort to the utmost extremities, since what he had attempted
secretly had ended in confusion and disgrace.[144]

XXVII. He accordingly dispatched Caius Manlius to Faesulae, and the adjacent parts of Etruria;
one Septimius, of Carinum,[145] into the Picenian territory; Caius Julius into Apulia; and
others to various places, wherever he thought each would be most serviceable.[146] He himself,
in the mean time, was making many simultaneous efforts at Rome; he laid plots for the consul;
he arranged schemes for burning the city; he occupied suitable posts with armed men; he went
constantly armed himself, and ordered his followers to do the same; he exhorted them to be
always on their guard and prepared for action; he was active and vigilant by day and by night,
and was exhausted neither by sleeplessness nor by toil. At last, however, when none of his
numerous projects succeeded,[147] he again, with the aid of Marcus Porcius Laeca, convoked
the leaders of the conspiracy in the dead of night, when, after many complaints of their apathy,
he informed them that he had sent forward Manlius to that body of men whom he had prepared
to take up arms; and others of the confederates into other eligible places, to make a commencement
of hostilities; and that he himself was eager to set out to the army, if he could but first
cut off Cicero, who was the chief obstruction to his measures.

XXVIII. While, therefore, the rest were in alarm and hesitation, Caius Cornelius, a Roman knight,
who offered his services, and Lucius Vargunteius, a senator, in company with him, agreed to
go with an armed force, on that very night, and with but little delay,[148] to the house of
Cicero, under pretense of paying their respects to him, and to kill him unawares, and unprepared
for defense, in his own residence. But Curius, when he heard of the imminent danger that threatened
the consul, immediately gave him notice, by the agency of Fulvia, of the treachery which was
contemplated. The assassins, in consequence, were refused admission, and found that they had
undertaken such an attempt only to be disappointed.

In the mean time, Manlius was in Etruria, stirring up the populace, who, both from poverty,
and from resentment for their injuries (for, under the tyranny of Sylla, they had lost their
lands and other property) were eager for a revolution. He also attached to himself all sorts
of marauders, who were numerous in those parts, and some of Sylla's colonists, whose dissipation
and extravagance had exhausted their enormous plunder.

XXIX. When these proceedings were reported to Cicero, he, being alarmed at the twofold danger,
since he could no longer secure the city against treachery by his private efforts, nor could
gain satisfactory intelligence of the magnitude or intentions of the army of Manlius, laid
the matter, which was already a subject of discussion among the people, before the senate.
The senate, accordingly, as is usual in any perilous emergency, decreed that THE CONSULS SHOULD
MAKE IT THEIR CARE THAT THE COMMONWEALTH SHOULD RECEIVE NO INJURY. This is the greatest power
which, according to the practice at Rome, is granted[149] by the senate to the magistrate,
and which authorizes him to raise troops; to make war; to assume unlimited control over the
allies and the citizens; to take the chief command and jurisdiction at home and in the field;
rights which, without an order of the people, the consul is not permitted to exercise.

