The great western door-way to the church of Perriers is very peculiar. Mr. Cotman regards it
as the only instance, in the duchy, of a real Norman building having its principal entrance
square-headed. Its massive lintel, shaped, as at Bieville, into a pediment, and surmounted
by an arch, which is rather the segment of an ellipsis than of a circle, is likewise remarkable.
But the very large arch on the northern side of the nave, adjoining the west end, is by far
the most striking architectural feature of the building. It would be difficult, if not impossible,
to assign any satisfactory reason for its existence. Its situation precludes the idea of its
having been placed there by way of support to the tower: its size forbids the supposition,
that it ever served as an entrance. Had there been an aisle or chapel beyond, it certainly
might have been the medium of their communication with the main building; but the buttress
contiguous to it, proves that the wall in which it is inserted, was the outer wall of the church.
As it is, it appears a perfect anomaly, and must remain as a crux for the ingenuity of future
antiquaries.

The similar arch, now blocked up, at the western extremity of the chancel, places it almost
beyond a doubt that the church had a central tower. The windows of the chancel far exceed,
in point of length and narrowness, any others that have yet appeared in this work. They are
wholly destitute of mouldings or decoration of any description; but, like those at Anisy, are
edged with freestone, as are the apertures left by the scaffolding, which in this building
are disposed with unusual regularity, as if with the intention of their being ornamental. This
introduction of white smooth stone, assorts ill with the dull reddish-brown mass all around
it, and produces a glaring and disagreeable effect. The indented cornice is similar to that
observed by Mr. Turner upon the gate-tower, leading to the monastery of the Holy Trinity, at
Caen.[146]

NOTES:

[146] Tour in Normandy, II. p. 183.

PLATE LXIX.

CASTLE OF LILLEBONNE.

Julius Cæsar, the principal source of information respecting ancient Gaul, at the same time
that he mentions the Caletes, the inhabitants of the modern Pays de Caux, is altogether silent
with regard to the principal city of their territory. From Ptolemy, however, and the Itinerary
of Antoninus, it appears, that such city was called Juliobona;[147] and, notwithstanding the
attempts of Cluvier and Adrien de Valois to establish Dieppe as the site of this Caletian metropolis,[148]
the learned of the present day seem unanimously agreed to fix it at Lillebonne; and there are
but few who are not also of opinion, that the present French name is a corruption of the ancient
Roman one. Some Latin writers of the twelfth century make mention of Insula Bona; and the word,
Lillebonne, spelt, as it not uncommonly is, L'Ilebonne, might be regarded as originating from
that appellation, of which, indeed, it is a literal translation. But the point is not worth
arguing: it is equally possible, that Insula Bona may be no other than Lillebonne latinized.

