One more conjecture of the author, in this division of his subject, we shall only notice. It
is that "the formation of bodies in space is still in progress." What may be doing in the nebulæ,
in the region scarcely within reach of telescopic vision, in what may be considered the yet
uninclosed and commonable waste of the universe, is a subject, we suspect, of much obscurity,
and respecting which no precise intelligence has been received; but limiting attention to the
solar system, which is nearer home and more within cognizance, the work seems finished, perfect,
and unchangeable, and, like the Great Architect, made to endure for ever. This was the conclusion
of LAPLACE; he proved that the state of our system is stable; that is, the ellipsis the planets
describe will always remain nearly circular, and the axis of revolution of the earth will never
deviate much from its present position. He also gave a mathematical proof that this stability
is not accidental, but the result of design, of an arrangement by which the planets all move
in the same direction, in orbits of small eccentricity and slightly inclined to each other.
Reasoning from analogy, as the author of the Vestiges is prone to do--extending our views from
our solar system to other systems--other suns and revolving planets--it is fair to conclude
that they are not less perfect in arrangement--subject to like conditions of permanency, and
alike exempt from mutation, decay, collision, or extinction.

Descending from this high region, we accompany the author to his next and lower field--the

EARTH AND ITS GEOLOGICAL HISTORY.

Our globe is somewhat less than 8,000 miles in diameter; it is of a spheroidal form, the equatorial
exceeding the polar axis in the proportion of 300 to 299, and which slight inequality, in consequence
of its diurnal revolution, is necessary to preserve the land near the equator from inundation
by the sea. The mean density or average weight of the earth is, in proportion to that of distilled
water, as 5.66 to 1. So that its specific gravity is considerably less than that of tin, the
lightest of the metals, but exceeds that of granite, which is three times heavier than water.

Descending below the surface, the first sensation that strikes is the increase of temperature.
This is so rapid, that for every one hundred feet of sinking we obtain an increase of more
than one degree of Fahrenheit's thermometer. If there be no interruption to this law, and no
reason exists to conclude there is, it is manifest that at the depth of a few miles we must
reach an intensity of heat utterly unbearable. Hence it follows that by no improvements in
machinery can mining operations be carried down to a great depth below the surface. The greatest
depth yet penetrated does not exceed three thousand feet, and forms a very small advance towards
the earth's centre, distant 4,000 miles.

Geologists, however, without penetrating far into the earth, have found means for obtaining
an insight for several miles into its interior structure, and armed with hammer, chisel, and
climbing hook, they explore the beetling sea-cliff, traverse the deepest valleys, and scale
the highest mountains, carefully examining their formation, disposition, and substance, and
are thus enabled to obtain some knowledge of the earth's stomach, as it were, by scrutinising
the deposits and eruptive ejectments on its surface. In this way has the interior of the globe
been examined, and its contents and arrangement, for several miles below the surface, ascertained.

This, we believe, is a correct outline of the crust of the earth, so far as it has been possible
to observe it. It exhibits extraordinary signs of commotion and vicissitude; the lowest rocks
indicating a previous condition of igneous fusion; those above them of aqueous solution. Fire
and water have thus been the chief tellurian anarchists, and the shaking of continents and
the constant shifting of level in sea and land still continue to attest their restless energies.
That igneous matter has, during many periods, been protruded from below--that mountains have
risen in succession from the sea, and injected their molten substance through cracks and fissures
of superincumbent strata--are facts resting on indubitable evidence. Many masses of granite
became the solid bottom of some portions of the sea before the secondary strata were laid gradually
upon them. The granite of Mont Blanc rose during a recent tertiary period. "We can prove,"
says Professor SEDGWICK, "more than mere shiftings of level, and that many portions of sea
and land have entirely changed their places. The rocks at the top of Snowdon are full of petrified
sea-shells; the same may be said of some high crests of the Alps, Pyrenees, and Andes. We have
proof demonstrative that many parts of Scotland, and that all England, formed, during many
ages, the solid bottom of the sea. It may be true that the antagonist powers of nature during
the human period have reached a kind of balance. But during all geological periods there have
been such long intervals of repose, or of such gradual movements, that we may trace the history
of the earth in the successive deposits formed in the waters of the sea." This is the great
business of geology. It would, however, be a mistake to infer that, previous to these eruptions,
the earth was a smooth ball, with air and water playing round it. Geology tells us plainly
that there were great irregularities--lofty mountains, interspersed with deep seas--and by
which, perhaps, the mountains were wholly or partially covered. The matter so worn off being
carried into the neighbouring depths and there deposited, became the components of the successive
series of stratified rocks, extending from the basal envelope of granite to the earth's surface,
and which it will be proper briefly to describe.

DEPOSITS OR ROCK FORMATIONS.

The first of the series is the Gneis and Mica Slate System, of which examples are exposed to
view in the Highlands of Scotland and the west of England. In the metamorphic rocks no organic
remains have been found, and they are geologically below all the rocks that do contain traces
of animal life.

From the primary rocks we pass into the next ascending series, called the Clay Slate and Grauwacke
Slate System, which in some places is found resting immediately on the granite, the antecedent
bed being there wanting. This deposit has been well examined, because some of its slate beds
have been extensively quarried for domestic purposes. It is found also in North Wales and in
the north of England, in beds of great thickness, and in Scotland, but there the Silurian rocks
are more feebly represented.

The Old Red Sandstone, or Devonian System, comes next. It forms the material of the grand and
rugged mountains which fringe many parts of our Highland coasts, and ranges, on the south flank
of the Grampians, from the eastern to the western sea of Scotland. There is no part of geology
and science more clear than that which refers to the ages of mountains. It is as certain that
the Grampian mountains are older than the Alps and Apennines, as it is that civilisation had
reached Italy and enabled her to subdue the world, while Scotland was the abode of barbarism.

The last three series of strata contain the remains of the earliest occupants of the globe,
and of which we shall soon speak. They are of enormous thickness--in England, not much less
than 30,000 feet, or nearly six miles. Coal is altogether composed of the matter of a terrestrial
vegetation, transmuted by putrefaction of a peculiar kind beneath the surface of water, and
in the absence of air.

The Magnesian Limestone deposits succeed the carboniferous, and sometimes pass into them by
insensible gradations. In the south of England they are represented by conglomerates, and partly
composed of the solid and more or less rounded fragments of the older strata. They afford a
proof of what geologists have often occasion to remark of the long periods of time during which
the ancient works of nature were perfected; for the older rocks were solid as they are now,
and their organic remains petrified at the time these conglomerates were forming.

We can only briefly glance at the remaining chapters of geological history. The New Red Sandstone
forms the base of the great central plains of England, and is surmounted by the oliferous marls
and red arenaceous beds which pass under the succession of great oolitic terraces that stretch
across England from the coasts of Dorsetshire to the north-eastern coast of Yorkshire. It marks
the commencement of an important era, being the strata in which land animals are first found.
The Oolte System which follows marks the beginning of mammalia, and in some of its beds in
Buckinghamshire are found the exuviæ of tropical trees. Near Weymouth, in the well-known dirt
beds, are found trees with their silicified trunks growing up in the position of nature, and
their roots embedded in the soil on which they grew.

Next we have the chalk or Cretaceous Formation, that makes such a conspicuous figure in England.
The celebrated cliffs of Dover are of this era. It forms a stripe from Yorkshire to Kent, and
is found in France, Germany, Russia, and in North America. The English chalk beds are 1,200
feet thick, showing the considerable depth of the ocean in which they were formed. Their origin
has been a questionable topic; they were thought to be formed from the detritus of coral reefs,
but Professor EHRENBERG has recently announced, as the result of his microscopical researches,
that chalk is composed partly of inorganic particles and partly of shells of inconceivable
minuteness, a cubic inch of the substance containing about ten millions of them.

In the hollows of the chalk-beds have been formed series of strata--clay, limestone, marl alternating--to
which the name of the Tertiary System has been given. It is irregularly distributed over vast
surfaces of all our continents, and must be considered as the beds of estuaries left at the
conclusion of the cretaceous period. London and Paris rest on basins of this formation, and
another such basin extends from near Winchester under Southampton, and reappears in the Isle
of Wight.

We hasten upward to the Diluvial System, which brings us near to the present surface. To this
era is referred the erratic blocks, or gigantic boulder stones, which have been driven by floods
across our continents, or drifted in icebergs over valleys, and perched sometimes on mountain
tops. To it also must be referred the till of Scotland and the great brown clay of England,
and our vast beds of gravel and superficial rubbish, connected with the deluvium in the history
of ossiferous caverns, of which that examined by Dr. BUCKLAND at Kirkdale is an example.

We come last to the Modern or Superficial Formation, of which the best specimen is the great
Bedford level, that spreads over the lower lands of Norfolk, Cambridgeshire, and Lincolnshire,
consisting of accumulations of silt, drifted matter, and bog-earth, some of which began before
the earliest periods of British history. When these accumulations are removed by artificial
means, we find below sometimes shells of recent species, and the remains of an old estuary,
sometimes sand-banks, gravel beds, stumps of trees, and masses of drifted wood. On this recent
surface are found skulls of a living species of European bear, skeletons of the Arctic wolf,
European beaver and wild boar, and numerous horns and bones of the roebuck and red deer, and
of the gigantic stag or Irish elk. They testify to a zoology on the verge of that now prevailing
or melting into it. In corresponding deposits of North America are found remains of the mammoth,
mastadon, buffalo, and other animals of extinct or living species.

Considering it best not to interrupt the description of the successive formations, this is
almost the only allusion that has been made to the fossils which constitute so important a
part of geological science. It is now to be explained that from an early period, that is, from
the metamorphic deposit to the close of the rock series, each formation is found to enclose
remains of the organic beings, plants, and animals, which flourished upon earth during the
time they were forming; and these organisms, or such parts of them as were of sufficient solidity,
have been in many instances preserved with the utmost fidelity, although for the most part
converted into the substance of the enclosing mineral. The rocks may be thus said to form a
kind of history of the organic departments of nature apparently from near their beginning to
the present time. It is upon the commencement and progress of life under these circumstances
that the author of the Vestiges of Creation has put forth some of his most startling and controversial
propositions; but before noticing them it will be useful to prepare the way by shortly describing
the gradations of organic existences, following the same order as observed in the rock series,
by beginning with the lowest or humblest forms of organization.

RISE AND PROGRESS OF PLANTS AND ANIMALS.

The interior of the earth reveals wonders not less impressive than those of the skies. We have
seen in the last section how the crust of our globe is composed of successive layers or tiers
of strata, rising upward, terrace upon terrace, till we reach the present vegetable mould or
superficial platform of animated existence. In the aggregate these formations or systems, marking
the several epochs in nature's development, may extend to a depth, as Dr. BUCKLAND conjectures,
of ten or fifteen miles below the surface, and each may be considered a vast cemetery or graveyard,
entombing the remains of ages long anterior to human creation. We, in fact, live upon a pile
of worlds, and anticipating the future from past records and from changes still manifest from
the shallowing soundings of neighbouring seas, it is not improbable that the existing scene
of bustle may have heaped upon it as many superincumbent masses as the lowest of the rocks
enclosing the vestiges of life.

If not with a kind of awe, it must have certainly been with intense curiosity that the first
investigators of fossilology looked upon the earliest forms of animated being of which we have
any traces as existing upon this globe. These first denizens, however, seem to have been of
a simple structure and humble order, not fit to play high class characters. No land animals
are found among them, none which could breathe the atmosphere, none but tenants of the water,
and even animals so high in the scale as fish were wanting. In popular language, the earliest
fossils are corals and shellfish.

But to make the subject generally intelligible it will be necessary first to define the orders
of the animal kingdom. CUVIER was the first to give a philosophical view of the animal world
in reference to the plan on which each animal is constructed. According to him there are four
forms on which animals have been modelled, and of which ulterior divisions are only slight
modifications founded on the development or addition of some parts that do not produce any
essential change of structure.

The four great branches of the animal world are the vertebrata, mollusca, articulata, and radiata.
The vertebrata are those animals which (as man and other sucklers, birds and fishes) have a
backbone and a skull with lateral appendages, within which the viscera are excluded, and to
which the muscles are attached. The mollusca or soft animals have no bony skeleton; the muscles
are attached to the skin, which often include stony plates called shells; such mollusca are
shell-fish, others are cuttle-fish, and many pulpy sea animals. The articulata consist of crustacea
(lobsters, &c.), insects, spiders, and annulos worms, which, like the other classes of this
branch, consist of a head and a number of successive portions of the body jointed together,
whence the name. Finally the radiata include the animals known under the name of zoophytes.

Now it is fossils of the radiata division of the animal kingdom that are found in the lowest
stratified rocks, polypiaria and crinodia, the first including various forms of these extraordinary
animals (corallines) which still abound in tropical seas, often obstructing the course of the
mariner, and even laying the foundation of new continents. The crinoids are an early and simple
form of the large family of star-fishes; the animal is little more than a stomach, surrounded
by tentacula to provide itself with food, and mounted upon a many-jointed stalk, so as to resemble
a flower upon its stem. Along with these in the slate system are a few lowly genera of crustacea,
and of a higher class, the mollusca, and the existence of these imply the contemporary existence
of certain humbler forms of life, vegetable and animal, for their subsistence, forming a scene
approaching to what is found in seas of the present day, excepting that fishes, nor any higher
vertebrata, as yet roamed the marine wilds.

The animal species of this era seem to have been few in number, and almost the whole had become
extinct before the next group of strata had been formed. (p. 64). The cephaloda, represented
in our era by the nautilus and cuttle-fish, pertain to the Silurian formation, and are the
most highly organised of the mollusca, possessing in some families an internal bony skeleton,
together with a heart and a head with mandibles not unlike those of the parrot.

In the Old Red Sandstone the same marine specimens are continued with numerous additions. Several
of the strata are crowded with remains of fish, showing that the seas in which these beds were
deposited had swarmed with that class of inhabitants. The predominating kinds are of an inferior
model to the two orders which afterwards came into existence, and still are the principal fishes
of our seas; the former are covered with integuments of a considerably different character
from the true scales covering the latter, and which orders, from their form of organization,
are named stenoid and cycloid. The types of being formed in the old red as in preceding deposits,
are identical in species with the remains that occur in the corresponding class of rocks in
Brittany, the Hartz, Norway, Russia, and North America; attesting the similarity and almost
universality, if not contemporary character, of terrestrial changes. A few other geological
facts may be here mentioned for recollection, and which throw light on the marine animal and
vegetable forms of this and preceding eras. First there was comparatively an absence of salt
in the early ocean; and next the temperature of the earth is conjectured to have been higher,
and perhaps almost uniform throughout.

It must be further borne in mind that as yet no land animals or plants existed, and for this
presumable reason, that dry land had not appeared. It is only in the next or carboniferous
formation that evidence is traced of island or continent. As a consequence of this emergence
there was fresh water; for rain, instead of returning to the sea, as formerly, was collected
in channels of the earth and became springs, rivers, and lakes. It was made a receptacle for
an advance in organism, and land plants became a conspicuous part of the new creation. Now
the author of the Vestiges states that two-thirds of the plants of this era belong to the cellular
kind, but to this one of his ablest critics (Edinburgh Review for July) demurs, asserting that
the carboniferous epoch shows a gorgeous flora--that the first fruits of vegetable nature were
not rude, ill-fashioned forms, but in magnificence and complexity of structure equal to any
living types, and that the forest approached the rank and complicated display of a tropical
jungle, where the prevalence of great heat with great moisture, combined with the fact that
the atmosphere contained a greater proportion of the natural food of plants, must undoubtedly
have forcibly stimulated vegetation, and in quantity and luxuriance of growth, if not fineness
of organization, produced it in rich abundance. The earth, it is likely, was one vast forest,
which would perform a most important part for the good of its future inhabitants, helping to
purge the air of its excess of carbonic acid, by which the earth's surface would be prepared
for its new occupants.

The animal remains of this era are not numerous in comparison with those that go before or
follow. Contrary to what the author of the Vestiges supposes (p. 111), insects were already
buzzing in the air; there were, however, no crawling reptiles on the ground, and it is a doubtful
point whether birds cheered the ancient forests with their song. But fishes reached their most
perfect organic type. They were the lords of creation, and had a structure in conformity with
their high office. Since then the class has increased in its species, but has degenerated to
a less noble type.

In the next formation, the New Red Sandstone, reptiles make their appearance. They are considered
next to fishes in the zoological scale. So nearly are they sometimes connected, that it is
doubtful to which class they belong. Many reptiles are also amphibious, adapted either to water
or land. The surface of the globe abounded in large flat, muddy shores, and was suited to the
new order of visitants called into existence.

In the Oolite System, mostly consisting of calcareous beds, mammals make their appearance.
Some additions were made to the reptile form. One animal (the behemite) appeared, but terminated
in the next era. In the following series of rocks mammals increase in abundance. The advance
in land animals is less marked, but considerable in the tertiary strata. The tapir forms a
conspicuous type. One animal of the kind was eighteen feet long, and had a couple of tusks
turning down from the lower jaw, by which it could attach itself, like the walrus, to a bank,
while its body floated in the water. Many animals of a former period disappear, and are replaced
by others belonging to still existent families--elephant, hippopotamus, and rhinoceros--though
extinct as species. Some of these forms are startling from their size. Finally, beside the
dog, cat, squirrel, and bear, we have offered to us, for the first time, oxen, deer, camel,
and other specimens of the rumantia. Traces of the quadrumane, or monkey, have been found in
the older tertiaries of France, India, and England. So that we may now be said to have arrived
at the zoological forms not long antecedent to the appearance of the chief of all, bimana,
or man, and shall here pause to consider the conclusions of the author of the Vestiges of Creation
on the origin of the organic existences that have been successively exhibited.

It will be convenient, however, first to introduce a synoptic view of the evolutions of the
earth as set forth in this and the preceding section. For this purpose the author has introduced
a parallel table, exhibiting on one side a scale of animal life beginning with the humblest
and ascending to the highest species; and on the other side the successive series of rock formations,
in which their fossiliferous remains have been found up to the present superficial deposits
of the globe. Objections have been made to the correctness of the author's analogies, scale,
and his classification of animals, the chief of which will be adverted to in the next section;
but the table is essential, as presenting at one view an outline of the hypothesis he has sought
to establish.

SCALE OF ANIMAL KINGDOM.                 ORDER OF ANIMALS IN       ASCENDING SERIES         FOETAL HUMAN BRAIN
                                                                   OF ROCKS.                RESEMBLES, IN
       Invertebrata.
       1 Infusoria                      Traces of Infusoria(?)   1 Gneiss and Mica\
                                                                     Slate System    \
       2 Polypi                         Polypiaria             \                      \
       5 Echinodermata                  Echinodermata           \                      \
     { 7 Brachiopoda       {15-20       Brachiopoda} Crustacea   } 2 Clay Slate System  \  1st month, typically,
Moll-{ 9 Pteropoda   Artic-{Crustacea   Pteropoda  }            /                        } that of an
usca {10 Gasteropoda ulata {12-14       Gasteropoda} Annelides /                        /  avertebrated animal
     {11 Cephalopoda       {Annelides   Cephalopoda}            \                      /
                                                                 } 3 Silurian system  /
      Vertebrata.                   {  Remains of Fishes    /                    /
                                      {  Fishes of low type;   \                        \
      32-36 Fishes                    {    heterocercal; allied }  4 Old Red Sandstone   } 2nd month, that of a fish;
                                      {    to crustacea        /                        /
                                      {  Sauroid Fishes       \
      37 Batrachia (frogs, &c.)          Batrachia             \
                                                                }  5 Carboniferous
      39 Sauria (lizards, &c.)           Sauria                /     formation
      40 Chelonia (tortoises)            Chelonia             /                            3rd month, that of a turtle;
      41-46 Birds                        Footsteps of Birds      6 New Red Sandstone     4th month, that of a bird;
      47 Cetacea (dolphins, whales, &c.) Bones of a            \
                                         Cetaceous Animal       } 7 Oolite
                                         Bones of a Marsupial /
                                                                   8 Chalk
      48 Pachydermata (tapirs, &c.)      Pachydermata       \
      49 Edentata (sloths)               Edentata            \
      50 Rodentia (squirrels, hare, &c.) Rodentia             \                            5th month, that of a rodent;
      51 Marsupialia (opossums, &c.)     Marsupialia           \
      52 Ruminantia (oxen, stag, &c.)    Ruminantia             \                          6th month, that of a ruminant;
      53 Amphibia (seals)                                        } 9 Tertiary
      54 Digitigrada (dog, cat, &c.)     Digitigrada            /                          7th month, that of a digitigrade animal;
      55 Plantigrada (bear, &c.)         Plantigrada           /
      56 Insectivora (shrew, &c.)        Insectivora          /
      57 Cheiroptera (bats)              Cheiroptera         /
      58 Quadrumana (apes)               Quadrumana         /                              8th month, that of the quadrumana;
      29 Bimana (man)                    Bimana                   10 Superficial deposits  9th month, attains full human character.

TRANSMUTATION OF SPECIES.

In the two last sections we have gone through the earth's geological history, first of the
changes in its physical structure, next of the mutations in the organic forms that have, in
serial order, appeared in the successive strata of its external envelope, from the period of
that far distant crisis when it was a molten globe on which its primitive granitic covering
was just beginning to concrete, in consequence of abating heat, until we have arrived at the
first prognostic signs of approaching human existence.

The rock upon rock of vast thickness, by which the earth's crust, through countless ages, has
been formed, unquestionably constitutes a most extraordinary phenomenon of physical creation,
but hardly so marvellous and incomprehensible as the beginning, progress, and end of the divers
orders of marine and terrestrial beings that filled each world of life. It is to geologists,
to PLAYFAIR, HUTTON, LYELL, BUCKLAND, SEDGWICK, OWEN, and other great names, native and foreign,
to whom we are indebted for this singular revelation of Nature's works.

Now the great question arises--whence, by what power, or by what law, were these reiterated
transitions brought about? Were the organized species of one geological epoch, by some long-continued
agency of natural causes, transmuted into other and succeeding species? or were there an extinction
of species, and a replacement of them by others, through special and miraculous acts of creation?
or, lastly, did species gradually degenerate and die out from the influence of the altered
and unfavourable physical conditions in which they were placed, and be supplanted by immigrants
of different species, and to which the new conditions were more congenial?

The last, we confess, is the view to which we are most inclined--first, because we think a
transmutation of species, from a lower to a higher type, has not been satisfactorily proved;
and second, because of the strong impression we entertain, that the universe, subject to certain
cyclical and determinate mutations, was made complete at first, with self-subsisting provisions
for its perpetual renewal and conservation. We shall advert to this matter hereafter; but at
present it is the conclusions of the author of the Vestiges that claim consideration. He adopts
the first interpretation of animal phenomena, namely, that there has been a transmutation of
species, that the scale of creation has been gradually advancing in virtue of an inherent and
organic law of development. Nature, he contends, began humbly; her first works were of simple
form, which were gradually meliorated by circumstances favourable to improvement, and that
everywhere animals and plants exhibit traces of a parallel advance of the physical conditions
and the organic structure. The general principle, he inculcates, is, that each animal of a
higher kind, in the progress of its embryo state, passes through states which are the final
condition of the lower kind; that the higher kinds of animals came later, and were developed
from the lower kinds, which came earlier in the series of rock formations, by new peculiar
conditions operating upon the embryo, and carrying it to a higher stage.

Now this appears plausible and conclusive, but the correctness of the recapitulation here made,
and its conformity to actual nature, have been sharply disputed. It may be true that sea plants
came first, but of this there is no proof; and of land plants there is not a shadow of evidence
that the simpler forms came into being before the more complex: the simple and complex forms
are found together in the more ancient flora. It is true that we first see polypiaria, crinoidea,
articulata, and mollusca, but not exactly in the order stated by the author. It is true that
the next step gives us fishes, but it is not true that the earliest fishes link on to the lower
sub-kingdom, the articulata. It is true that we afterwards find reptiles, but those which first
appear belong to the highest order of the class, and show no links of an insensible gradation
into fishes. In the tertiary deposit of the London clay the evidence of concatenation entirely
fails. Among the millions of organic forms, from corals up to mammalia of the London and Paris
basins, hardly a single secondary species is found. In the south of France it is said that
two or three secondary species struggle into the tertiary strata; but they form a rare and
evanescent exception to the general rule. Organic nature at this stage seems formed on a new
pattern--plants as well as animals are changed. It might seem as if we had been transported
to a new planet; for neither in the arrangement of the genera and the species, nor in their
affinities with the types of a pre-existing world, is there any approach to a connected chain
of organic development.

For some discrepancies the author endeavours to account, and it is fair to give his explanation:--

     "Fossil history has no doubt still some obscure passages; and these
     have been partially adverted to. Fuci, the earliest vegetable
     fossils as yet detected, are not, it has been remarked, the lowest
     forms of aquatic vegetation; neither are the plants of the
     coal-measures the very lowest, though they are a low form, of land
     vegetation. There is here in reality no difficulty of the least
     importance. The humblest forms of marine and land vegetation are of
     a consistence to forbid all expectation of their being preserved in
     rocks. Had we possessed, contemporaneously with the fuci of the
     Silurians, or the ferns of the carboniferous formation, fossils of
     higher forms respectively, equally unsubstantial, but which had
     survived all contingencies, then the absence of mean forms of
     similar consistency might have been a stumbling-block in our
     course; but no such phenomena are presented. The blanks in the
     series are therefore no more than blanks; and when a candid mind
     further considers that the botanical fossils actually present are
     all in the order of their organic development, the whole phenomena
     appear exactly what might have been anticipated. It is also
     remarked, in objection, that the mollusca and articulata appear in
     the same group of rocks (the slate system) with polypiaria,
     crinoidea, and other specimens of the humblest sub-kingdom; some of
     the mollusca, moreover, being cephalopods, which are the highest of
     their division in point of organization. Perhaps, in strict fact,
     the cephalopoda do not appear till a later time, that of the
     Silurian rocks. But even though the cephalopoda could be shewn as
     pervading all the lowest fossiliferous strata, what more would the
     fact denote than that, in the first seas capable of sustaining any
     kind of animal life, the creative energy advanced it, in the space
     of one formation, (no one can say how long a time this might be,)
     to the highest forms possible in that element, excepting such as
     were of vertebrate structure. It may here be inquired if geologists
     are entitled to set so high a value as they do upon the point in
     the scale of organic life which is marked by the upper forms of the
     mollusca. It will afterwards be seen that this is a low point
     compared with the whole scale, if we are to take as a criterion
     that parity of development which has been observed in the embryo of
     one of the higher animals. The human embryo passes through the
     whole space representing the invertebrate animals in the first
     month, a mere fraction of its course. There is indeed a remarkably
     rapid change of forms in such an embryo at first: the rapidity,
     says Professor Owen, is 'in proportion to the proximity of the ovum
     to the commencement of its development;' and, conformable to this
     fact, we find the same zoologist stating that, in the lowest
     division of the animal kingdom, (the Acrita of his arrangement,)
     there is a much quicker advance of forms towards the next above it,
     than is to be seen in subsequent departments. There is, indeed, to
     the most ordinary observation, a rapidity and force in the
     productive powers of the lowest animals, which might well suggest
     an explanation of that rush of life which seems to be indicated in
     the slate and Silurian rocks. With regard to the so-called early
     occurrence of fishes partaking of the saurian character, I would
     say that their occurrence a full formation after the earliest and
     simplest fishes, is, considering how little we know of the space of
     time represented by a formation, not early: their being later in
     any degree is the fact mainly important. The subsequent rise of
     new orders of fishes, fully piscine in character, may be explained
     by the supposition of their having been developed, as is most
     likely, from a different portion of the inferior sub-kingdom. In
     short, all the objections which have been made to the great fact of
     a general progress of organic development throughout the geological
     ages, will be found, on close examination, to refer merely to
     doubtful appearances of small moment, which vanish into nothing
     when rightly understood."

Upon some of the chief points here involved, it may be remarked that the most eminent physiologists
are not agreed; they are not agreed that animals can be arranged in a series, passing from
lower to higher; nor that animals of a higher kind in the embryo state pass through the successive
stages of the lower kinds; the character of these stages, in the asserted doctrine, being taken
from the brain and heart, and man being the highest point of the series. There are physiologists
too who deny that the brain of the human embryo at any period, however early, resembles the
brain of any mollusk or of any articulata. It never, they assert, passes through a stage comparable
or analogous to a permanent condition of the same organ in any invertebrate animal; and in
like manner the spinal cord in the human vertebræ at no period agrees with the corresponding
part of the lower kind of animals. The moment it becomes visible in the human embryo, it is
entirely dorsal in position; while in mollusks and articulatas a great part, or nearly the
whole, is ventral. The same is true of the heart, or centre of the vascular system, which has
always a different relative position in the great nervous centre in the human embryo from what
it has in any articulate animal, and in most mollusks.

A second position in the Vestiges appears not to have been established--namely, as to the uniform
geological arrangement of different organic structures. It is not true that only the lowest
forms of animal life are found in the lowest fossiliferous rocks, and that the more complicated
structures are gradually and exclusively developed among the higher bands in what might be
called a natural ascending scale. On the contrary, the predaceous cephalopods and the highly
organized crustaceous are among the oldest fossils. Such appears to be the order of nature
as evidenced by facts, and it must be admitted, however repugnant to preconceived notions or
mere mortal conjectural amendments.

