In the court a stair, carried on arches, goes up to the third floor where are the chief rooms
in the house. None of them, which open one from the other or from a passage leading to the
chapel in the westernmost corner, are in any way remarkable except for their windows. The ceilings
of the principal rooms are of wood and panelled, but are clearly of much later date than the
building and are not to be compared with those at Cintra. Most of the original windows--for
those on the main front have been replaced by plain square openings--are even more Eastern
than those at Cintra. They are nearly all of two lights--there is one of a single light in
the passage--but are without the square framing. Each window has three very slender white marble
shafts, with capitals and with abaci moulded on each side. On some of the capitals are carved
twisted ropes, while others, as in a window in the large southern tower, are like those at
Cintra. As the shafts stand a little way back from the face of the wall the arches are of two
orders, of which only the inner comes down to the central shaft. (Fig. 47.)

These arches, all horseshoe in shape, are built of red brick with very wide mortar joints,
and each brick, in both orders, is beautifully moulded or cut at the ends so as to form a series
of small trefoiled cusps, each arch having as many as twenty-seven or more. The whole building
is plastered and washed yellow, so that the contrast between the bare walls and the elaborate
red arches and white shafts is singularly pleasing. All the outer walls are fortified, but
the space between each embrasure is far longer than usual; the four corner towers rise a good
deal above the rest of the buildings, but in none, except the southern, are there windows above
the main roof. It has one, shaped like the rest, but now all plastered and framed in an ogee
moulding. Half-way along the north-west wall, outside it, stands the keep, which curiously
is not Arab at all. It is a large square tower of no great height, absolutely plain, and built
of unplastered stone or marble. It has scarcely any windows, and walls of great thickness which,
like those of the smaller round towers, have a slight batter. It seems to be older than the
rest, and now its chief ornament is a large fig-tree growing near the top on the south side.[98]

[Sidenote: Evora.]

[Sidenote: Paços Reaes.]

Of all the towns in the Alemtejo Evora is the one where Eastern influence is most strongly
marked. Indeed the Roman temple and the cathedral are perhaps the only old buildings which
seem to be distinctly Western, and even the cathedral has some trace of the East in its two
western spires, one round and tiled, and the other eight-sided and plastered. For long Evora
was one of the chief towns of the kingdom, and was one of those oftenest visited by the kings.
Their palace stood close to the church of São Francisco, and must once have been a beautiful
building.

Unfortunately most of it has disappeared, and what is left, a large hall partly of the time
of Dom Manoel, has been so horribly restored in order to turn it into a museum as to have lost
all character.

A porch still stands at the south end, but scraped and pointed out of all beauty. It has in
front four square stone piers bearing large horseshoe brick arches, and these arches are moulded
and cusped exactly like those at Alvito.

[Sidenote: Morgado de Cordovis.]

There are no other examples of Moorish brickwork in the town, but there is more than one marble
window resembling those at Alvito in shape. Of these the most charming are found in the garden
of a house belonging to a 'morgado' or entailed estate called Cordovis. These windows form
two sides of a small square summer-house; their shafts have capitals like those of the dining-room
windows at Cintra, and the horseshoe arches are, as usual, cusped. A new feature, showing how
the pure Arab details were being gradually combined with Gothic, is an ogee moulding which,
uniting the two arches, ends in a large Gothic finial; other mouldings run up the cornice at
the angles, and the whole, crowned with battlements, ends in a short round whitewashed spire.

Some miles from Evora among the mountains, Affonso of

[Sidenote: Sempre Noiva.]

Portugal, archbishop of Evora, built himself a small country house which he called Sempre Noiva,
or 'Ever New,' about the beginning of the sixteenth century. It is now a ruin having lost all
its woodwork, but the walls are still well preserved. The plan is simple; a rectangle with
a chapel projecting from the eastern side, and a small wing from the west end of the south
side. All the ground floor is vaulted, as is the chapel, but the main rooms on the first floor
had wooden roofs, except the one next the chapel which forms the middle floor of a three-storied
tower, which, rising above the rest of the building, has a battlemented flat roof reached by
a spiral stair. This stair, like the round buttresses of the chapel, is capped by a high conical
plastered roof. As usual the whole, except the windows and the angles, is plastered and has
a sgraffito frieze running round under the cornice. There is a large porch on the north side
covering a stair leading to the upper floor, where most of the windows are of two lights and
very like those of the pavilion at Evora. Two like them have the ogee moulding, and at the
sides a rounded moulding carried on corbels and finished above the window with a carved finial.
The capitals are again carved with leaves, but the horseshoe arches have no cusps, and the
mouldings, like the capitals, are entirely Gothic; the union between the two styles, Gothic
and Arab, was already becoming closer.

Naturally Moorish details are more often found in secular than in religious buildings: yet
there are churches where such details exist even if the general plan and design is Christian.

[Sidenote: São João Evangelista, Evora.]

Just to the north of the cathedral of Evora, Rodrigo Affonso de Mello, count of Olivença, in
1485 founded a monastery for the Loyos, or Canons Secular of St. John the Evangelist. The church
itself is in no way notable; the large west door opening under a flat arched porch is one of
these with plain moulded arches and simple shafts which are so common over all the country,
and is only interesting for its late date. At the left side is a small monument to the founder's
memory; on a corbel stands a short column bearing an inscribed slab, and above the slab is
a shield under a carved curtain. Inside are some tombs--two of them being Flemish brasses--and
great tile pictures covering the walls. These give the life of São Lorenzo Giustiniani, patriarch
of Venice, and canon of San Giorgio in Alga, where the founder of the Loyos had been kindly
received and whence he drew the rules of his order, and are interesting as being signed and
dated 'Antonius ab oliva fecit 1711.'

The cloisters are also Gothic with vine-covered capitals, but the entrance to the chapter-house
and refectory is quite different. In general design it is like the windows at Sempre Noiva,
two horseshoe arches springing from the capitals of thin marble shafts and an ogee moulding
above. The three shafts are twisted, the capitals are very strange; they are round with several
mouldings, some fluted, some carved with leaves, some like pieces of rope: the moulded abaci
also have four curious corbels on two sides. The capitals are carried across the jambs and
the outer moulding, which is of granite, as is the whole except the three shafts and their
caps, and between the shafts and this moulding there is a broad band of carved foliage. The
ogee and the side finials or pinnacles, which are of the same section as the outer moulding
from which they spring, are made of a bundle of small rolls held together by a broad twisted
ribbon. Lastly, between the arches and the ogee there is a flat marble disk on which is carved
a curious representation of a stockaded enclosure, supposed to be memorial of the gallant attack
made by Affonso de Mello on Azila in Morocco.[99] The whole is a very curious piece of work,
the capitals and bases being, with the exception of some details at Thomar and at Batalha,
the most strange of the details of that period, though, were the small corbels left out, they
would differ but little from other Manoelino capitals, while the bases may be only an attempt
of a Moorish workman to copy the interpenetration of late Gothic. (Fig. 48.)

[Sidenote: São Francisco, Evora.]

Not much need be said here of the church of São Francisco or of the chapel of São Braz, both
begun at about the same time. São Francisco was long in building, for it was begun by Affonso
V. in 1460 and not finished till 1501. It is a large church close to the ruins of the palace
at Evora, and has a wide nave without aisles, six chapels on each side, larger transept chapels,
and a chancel narrower than the nave. It is, like most of Evora, built of granite, has a pointed
barrel vault cut into by small groins at the sides and scarcely any windows, for the outer
walls of the side chapels are carried up so as to leave a narrow space between them and the
nave wall. This was probably done to support the main vault, but the result is that almost
the only window is a large one over the west porch. It is this porch that most strongly shows
the hand of Moorish workmen. It is five bays long and one deep, and most of the five arches
in front, separated by Gothic buttresses and springing from late Gothic capitals, are horseshoe
in shape. The white marble doorway has two arches springing from a thin central shaft, which
like the arches and the two heavy mouldings, which forming the outer part of the jambs are
curved over them, is made of a number of small rounds partly straight and partly twisted. At
the corners of the church are large round spiral pinnacles with a continuous row of battlements
between; these battlements interspersed with round pinnacles are even set all along the ridge
of the vault. The reredos and the stalls made by Olivel of Ghent in 1508 are gone; so are Francisco
Henriques' stained windows, but there are still some good tiles, and in a large square opening
looking into the chancel there is a shaft with a beautiful early renaissance capital.

[Sidenote: São Braz, Evora.]

São Braz stands outside the town near the railway station. It was built as a pilgrimage chapel
soon after 1482, when the saint had been invoked to stay a terrible plague. It is not large,
has an aisleless nave of four bays, a large porch with three wide pointed arches at the west,
and a sort of domed chancel. Most of the details are indeed Gothic, but there is little detail,
and the whole is entirely Eastern in aspect. It is all plastered, the buttresses are great
rounded projections capped with conical plastered roofs; there are battlements on the west
gable and on the three sides of the porch, which also has great round conical-topped buttresses
or turrets at the angles.

Inside there are still fine tiles, but the sgraffito frieze has nearly disappeared from the
outer cornice.

There is also an interesting church somewhat in the same style as São Braz, but with aisles
and brick flying buttresses at Vianna d'Alemtejo near Alvito.

CHAPTER IX

MOORISH CARPENTRY

If it was only in the south that Moorish masons built in stone or brick, their carpenters had
a much wider range. The wooden ceilings of as late as the middle of the seventeenth century
may show no Eastern detail, yet in the method of their construction they are all ultimately
descended from Moorish models. Such ceilings are found all over the country, but curiously
enough the finest examples of truly Eastern work are found in the far north at Caminha and
in the island of Madeira at Funchal.

[Sidenote: Aguas Santas.]

The old romanesque church at Aguas Santas near Oporto has a roof, simple and unadorned, the
tie-beams of which are coupled in the Moorish manner. The two beams about a foot apart are
joined in the centre by four short pieces of wood set diagonally so as to form a kind of knot.
This is very common in Moorish roofs, and may be seen at Seville and elsewhere. The rest of
the roof is boarded inside, boards being also fastened to the underside of the collar beams.

[Sidenote: Azurara.]

At Azurara the ties are single, but the whole is boarded as at Aguas Santas, and this is also
the case at Villa do Conde and elsewhere.

In the palace chapel at Cintra, already described, the boarding is covered with a pattern of
interlacing strips, but later on panelling was used, usually with simple mouldings. Such is
the roof in the nave of the church of Nossa Senhora do Olival at Thomar, probably of the seventeenth
century, and in many houses, as for instance in the largest hall in the castle at Alvito. From
such simple panelled ceilings the splendid elaboration of those in the palace at Cintra was
derived.

[Sidenote: Caminha.]

The roofs at Caminha and at Funchal are rather different. At Caminha the roof is divided into
bays of such a size that each of the three divisions, the two sloping sides and the flat centre
under the collar ties, is cut into squares. In the sloping sides these squares are divided
from each other by a strip of boarding covering the space occupied by three rafters. On this
boarding are two bands of ornament separated by a carved chain, while one band, with the chain,
is returned round the top and bottom of the square. Between each strip of boarding are six
exposed rafters, and these are united alternately by small knots in the middle and at the ends,
and by larger and more elaborate knots at the ends. In the flat centre under the collar ties
each square is again surrounded by the band of ornament and by the chains, but here band and
chain are also carried across the corners, leaving a large octagon in the centre with four
triangles in the angles. Each octagon has a plain border about a foot wide, and within it a
plain moulding surrounding an eight-sided hollow space. All these spaces are of some depth;
each has in the centre a pendant, and in each the opening is fringed with tracery or foliation.
In some are elaborate Gothic cuspings, in others long carved leaves curved at the ends; and
in one which happens to come exactly over an iron tie-rod--for the rods are placed quite irregularly--the
pendant is much longer and is joined to the tie by a small iron bar. At the sides the roof
starts from a cornice of some depth whose mouldings and ornamentation are more classic than
Gothic. (Fig. 49.)

In the side aisles the cornice is similar, but of greater projection, and the rafters are joined
to each other in much the same way, but more simply.

[Sidenote: Funchal.]

At Funchal the roof is on a larger scale: there is no division into squares, but the rafters
are knotted together with much greater elaboration, and the flat part is like the chapel roof
at Cintra, entirely covered with interlacing strips forming an intricate pattern round hollow
octagons.

[Sidenote: Sala dos Cysnes, Cintra.]

The simple boarding of the earlier roofs may well have led to the two wonderful ceilings at
Cintra, those in the Sala dos Cysnes, and in the Sala dos Brazões or dos Escudos, but the idea
of the many octagons in the Sala dos Cysnes may have come from some such roof as that at Caminha,
when the octagons are so important a feature of the design. In that hall swans may have first
been painted for Dom João, but the roof has clearly been remade since then, possibly under
Dom Manoel. The gilt ornament on the mouldings seem even later, but may of course have been
added afterwards, though it is not very unlike some of the carving on the roof at Caminha,
an undoubted work of Dom Manoel's time.

This great roof in the Swan Hall has a deep and projecting classical cornice; it is divided
into three equal parts, two sloping and one flat, with the slopes returned at the ends. The
whole is made up of twenty-three large octagons and of four other rather distorted ones in
the corners, all surrounded with elaborate mouldings, carved and gilt like the cornice. From
the square or three-sided spaces left between the octagons there project from among acanthus
leaves richly carved and gilt pendants.

In each of the twenty-seven octagons there is painted on a flat-boarded ground a large swan,
each wearing on its neck the red velvet and gold collar made by Dona Isabel for the real swans
in the tank outside. These paintings, which are very well done, certainly seem to belong to
the seventeenth century, for the trees and water are not at all like the work of an artist
of Dom Manoel's time. (Fig. 50.)

[Sidenote: Sala dos Escudos, Cintra.]

Even more remarkable is the roof of the Sala dos Brazões or dos Escudos--that is 'of the shields'--also
built by Dom Manoel, and also retouched at the same time as that in the Sala dos Cysnes. This
other hall is a large room over forty feet square. The cornice begins about twelve feet from
the ground, the walls being covered with hunting scenes on blue and white tiles of about the
end of the seventeenth century. The cornice, about three feet deep and of considerable projection,
is, like all the mouldings, painted blue and enriched with elaborate gilt carving. On the frieze
is the following inscription in large gilt letters:

    Pois com esforços leais
    Serviços foram ganhadas
    Com estas e outras tais
    Devem de ser comservadas.[100]

The inscription is interrupted by brackets, round which the cornice is returned, and on which
rest round arches thrown across the four corners, bringing the whole to an equal-sided

octagon. These triangular spaces are roofed with elaborate wooden vaults, with carved and gilt
ribs leaving spaces painted blue and covered with gilt ornament. Above the cornice the panelling
rises perpendicularly for about eleven feet; there being on each cardinal side eight panels,
in two rows of four, one above the other, and over each arch four more--forty-eight panels
in all. Above this begins an octagonal dome with elaborately carved and gilt mouldings, like
those round the panels, in each angle and round the large octagon which comes in the middle
of each side. The next stage is similar, but set at a different angle, and with smaller and
unequal-sided octagons, while the dome ends in one large flat eight-sided panel forty-five
feet above the floor. All the space between the mouldings and the octagons is filled with most
elaborate gilt carving on a blue ground. Nor does the decoration stop here, for the whole is
a veritable Heralds' College for all the noblest families of Portugal in the early years of
the sixteenth century. The large flat panel at the top is filled with the royal arms carved
and painted, with a crown above and rich gilt mantling all round. In the eight panels below
are the arms of Dom Manoel's eight children, and in the eight large octagons lower down are
painted large stags with scrolls between their horns; lastly, in each of the forty-eight panels
at the bottom, and of the six spaces which occur under each of the vaults in the four corners;
in each of these seventy-two panels or spaces there is painted a stag. Every stag has round
its neck a shield charged with the arms of a noble family, between its horns a crest, and behind
it a scroll on which is written the name of the family.[101]

The whole of this is of wood, and for beauty and originality of design, as well as for richness
of colour, cannot be surpassed anywhere. In any northern country the seven small windows would
not let in enough light, and the whole dome would be in darkness, but the sky and air of Portugal
are clear enough for every detail to be seen, and for the gold on every moulding and piece
of carving to gleam brightly from the blue background.

None of the ceilings of later date are in any way to be compared in beauty or richness with
those of these two halls, for in all others the mouldings are shallower and the panels flatter.

[Sidenote: Coimbra Misericordia.]

In Coimbra there are two, both good examples of a simpler form of such ceilings. They are,
one in the Misericordia--the headquarters of a corporation which owns and looks after all the
hospitals, asylums and orphanages in the town--and one in the great hall of the University.
The Misericordia, built by bishop Affonso de Castello Branco about the end of the sixteenth
century, has a good cloister of the later renaissance, and opening off it two rooms of considerable
size with panelled ceilings, of which only one has its original painting. A cornice of some
size, with brackets projecting from the frieze to carry the upper mouldings, goes round the
room, and is carried across the corners so that at the ends of the room the ceiling has one
longer and two quite short sides. The lower sloping part of the ceiling all round is divided
into square panels with three-sided panels next the squares on the short canted sides; the
upper slope is divided in exactly the same way so that the flat centre-piece consists of three
squares set diagonally and of four triangles. All the panels are painted with a variety of
emblems, but the colours are dark and the ceiling now looks rather dingy.

[Sidenote: Sala dos Capellos University.]

The great hall of the University built by the rector, Manoel de Saldanha, in 1655 is a very
much larger and finer room. A raised seat runs round the whole room, the lower part of the
walls are covered with tiles, and the upper with red silk brocade on which hang portraits of
all the kings of Portugal, many doubtless as authentic as the early kings of Scotland at Holyrood.
Here only the upper part of the cornice is carried across the corners, and the three sides
at either end are equal, each being two panels wide.

As in the Misericordia the section of the roof is five-sided, each two panels wide. All the
panels are square except at the half-octagonal ends where they diminish in breadth towards
the top: they are separated by a large cable moulding and are painted alternately red and blue
with an elaborate design in darker colour on each. (Fig. 51.)

The effect is surprisingly good, for each panel with its beautiful design of curling and twisting
acanthus, of birds, of mermaids and of vases has almost the look of beautiful old brocade,
for the blues and reds have grown soft with age.

[Sidenote: Santa Clara, Villa do Conde.]

Before finally leaving wood ceilings it were better to speak of another form or style which
was sometimes used for their decoration although they are even freer from Moorish detail than
are those at Coimbra, though probably like them ultimately derived from the same source. One
of the finest of these ceilings is found in the upper Nuns' Choir in the church of Santa Clara
at Villa do Conde. The church consists of a short nave with transepts and chancel all roofed
with panelled wooden ceilings, painted grey as is often the case, and in no way remarkable.
The church was founded in 1318, but the ceilings and stalls of both Nuns' Choirs, which,

[Sidenote: Convent, Aveiro.]

one above the other take up much the greater part of the nave, cannot be earlier than the first
half of the seventeenth century. Like the other ceilings it is polygonal in section, but unlike
all Moorish ones is not returned round the ends. Above a finely carved cornice with elaborate
frieze, the whole ceiling is divided into deeply set panels, large and small squares with narrow
rectangles between: all alike covered with elaborate carving, as are also the mouldings and
the flat surfaces of the dividing bands. Here the wood is left in its natural colour, but in
the nave of the church of a large convent at Aveiro, where the general design of the ceiling
is almost the same, pictures are painted in the larger panels, and all the rest is heavily
gilt, making the whole most gorgeous.

As time went on wooden roofs became less common, stone barrel vaults taking their place, but
where they were used they were designed with a mass of meaningless ornament, lavished over
the whole surface, which was usually gilt. One of the most remarkable examples of such a roof
is found in the chancel of that same church at Aveiro. It is semicircular in shape and is all
covered with greater and smaller carved and gilt circles, from the smallest of which in the
middle large pendants hang down.

These circles are so arranged as to make the roof almost like that of Henry VII. Chapel, though
the two really only resemble each other in their extreme richness and elaboration. This same
extravagance of gilding and of carving also overtook altar and reredos. Now almost every church
is full of huge masses of gilt wood, in which hardly one square inch has been left uncarved;
sometimes, if there is nothing else, and the whole church--walls and ceiling alike--is a mass
of gilding and painting, the effect is not bad, but sometimes the contrast is terrible between
the plain grey walls of some old and simple building and the exuberance behind the high altar.

CHAPTER X

EARLY MANOELINO

Affonso V., the African, had died and been succeeded by his son João II. in 1487. João tried,
not without success, to play the part of Louis XI. of France and by a judicious choice of victims
(he had the duke of Braganza, the richest noble in the country, arrested by a Cortes at Evora
and executed, and he murdered his cousin the duke of Vizeu with his own hand) he destroyed
the power of the feudal nobility. Enriched by the confiscation of his victims' possessions,
the king was enabled to do without the help of the Cortes, and so to establish himself as a
despotic ruler. Yet he governed for the benefit of the people at large, and reversing the policy
of his father Affonso directed the energies of his people towards maritime commerce and exploration
instead of wasting them in quarrelling with Castile or in attempting the conquest of Morocco.
It was he who, following the example of his grand-uncle Prince Henry, sent out ship after ship
to find a way to India round the continent of Africa. Much had already been done, for in 1471
Fernando Po had reached the mouth of the Niger, and all the coast southward from Morocco was
well known and visited annually, for slaves used to cultivate the vast estates in the Alemtejo;
but it was not till 1484 that Diogo Cão, sent out by the king, discovered the mouth of the
Congo, or till 1486 that Bartholomeu Diaz doubled the Cabo Tormentoso, an ill-omened name which
Dom João changed to Good Hope.

Dom João II. did not live to greet Vasco da Gama on his return from India, for he died in 1495,
but he had already done so much that Dom Manoel had only to reap the reward of his predecessor's
labours. The one great mistake he made was that in 1493 he dismissed Columbus as a dreamer,
and so left the glory of the discovery of America to Ferdinand and Isabella. Besides doing
so much for the trade of his country, Dom João did what he could to promote literature and
art. Andrea da Sansovino worked for him for nine years from 1491 to 1499, and although scarcely
anything done by him can now be found, he here too set an example to Dom Manoel, who summoned
so many foreign artists to the country and who sent so many of his own people to study in Italy
and in Flanders.

Four years before Dom João died, his only son Affonso, riding down from Almerim to the Tagus
to meet his father, who had been bathing, fell from his horse and was killed. In 1495 he himself
died, and was succeeded by his cousin, Manoel the Fortunate. Dom Manoel indeed deserved the
name of 'Venturoso.' He succeeded his cousin just in time to see Vasco da Gama start on his
great voyage which ended in 1497 at Calicut. Three years later Pedro Alvares Cabral landed
in Brazil, and before the king died, Gôa--the great Portuguese capital of the East--had become
the centre of a vast trade with India, Ormuz[102] in the Persian Gulf of trade with Persia,
while all the spices[103] of the East flowed into Lisbon and even Pekin[104] had been reached.

From all these lands, from Africa, from Brazil, and from the East, endless wealth poured into
Lisbon, nearly all of it into the royal treasury, so that Dom Manoel became the richest sovereign
of his time.

In some other ways he was less happy. To please the Catholic Kings, for he wished to marry
their daughter Isabel, widow of the young Prince Affonso, he expelled the Jews and many Moors
from the country. As they went they cursed him and his house, and Miguel, the only child born
to him and Queen Isabel, and heir not only to Portugal but to all the Spains, died when a baby.
Isabel had died at her son's birth, and Manoel, still anxious that the whole peninsula should
be united under his descendants, married her sister Maria. His wish was realised--but not as
he had hoped--for his daughter Isabel married her cousin Charles V. and so was the mother of
Philip II., who, when Cardinal King Henry died in 1580, was strong enough to usurp the throne
of Portugal.

Being so immensely rich, Dom Manoel was able to cover the whole land with buildings. Damião
de Goes, who died in 1570, gives a list of sixty-two works paid for by him. These include cathedrals,
monasteries, churches, palaces, town walls, fortifications, bridges, arsenals, and the draining
of marshes, and this long list does not take in nearly all that Dom Manoel is known to have built.

Nearly all these churches and palaces were built or added to in that peculiar style now called
Manoelino. Some have seen in Manoelino only a development of the latest phase of Spanish Gothic,
but that is not likely, for in Spain that latest phase lasted for but a short time, and the
two were really almost contemporaneous.

Manoelino does not always show the same characteristics. Sometimes it is exuberant Gothic mixed
with something else, something peculiar, and this phase seems to have grown out of a union
of late Gothic and Moorish. Sometimes it is frankly naturalistic, and this seems to have been
developed out of the first; and sometimes Gothic and renaissance are used together. In this
phase, the composition is still always Gothic, though the details may be renaissance. At times,
of course, all phases are found together, but those which most distinctly deserve the name,
Manoelino, are the first and second.

