"Thought you were down at Malwood," I said, "looking after your flocks and herds, your brocoli
and your spring onions."

"So I had hoped to be," he said, as we strolled up and down under the trees in the Elisengarten.
"But the fact is, TOBY, dear boy, I could not stand the weather. I am of a sensitive nature,
and it cut me to the heart to see cold winds nipping the fruit and trees, the flood of rain
beating down the corn, the oats, and the mangel-wurzel. People make a mistake about me. They
regard me as an ambitious politician, caring for nothing but the House of Commons and the world
of politics. At heart I am an agriculturist. Give me three acres and a cow--anybody's, I don't
care--and I will settle down in peace and quietness, remote from political strife, never turning
an ear to listen to the roll of battle at Westminster. I am often distraught between the attractions
of interludes in the lives of CINCINNATUS and of WILLIAM OF ORANGE's great Minister. Of the
two I think I am more drawn towards the rose-garden at Sheen than by CINCINNATUS's unploughed
land. Before I die I should like to create a new rose and call it 'The Grand Old Man.'"

Quite a revelation this of the true inwardness of the SQUIRE. Would astonish some people in
London, I fancy, if ever I were to mention this conversation. But, to quote once more from
a revered authority: "We all live a dual life, and are not actually that which, upon cursory
regard, the passer-by believes us to be. Every gentleman, in whatever part of the House he
may sit, has a skeleton in the cupboard of his valet."

The SQUIRE stayed here only a morning, passing on to other scenes. I watched his departure
with mingled feelings; sorrow at losing a delightful companion, and apprehension of what might
happen if he were to remain here to go through the full cure. The place is, as SARK says, the
most brimstony on the same level. You breathe brimstone, drink it, bathe in it, and take it
in at the pores. At the end of three weeks or a month you are dangerously saturated with the
chemical. An ordinary lucifer match is nothing to a full-bodied patient at the end of three
weeks treatment at Aix-la-Chapelle. If the SQUIRE had stayed on, I should never have seen his
towering frame pass underneath a doorway without my heart leaping to my mouth. Some day he
would have accidentally struck his head against the lintel and would have ignited as sure as a gun.

If CHARLEMAGNE were now alive, I feel certain from what I know of him, he would have exhausted
the resources of civilisation in search of a preventive of this ever-present and dangerous
risk. Under CAROLO MAGNO the patient might have gone about the streets of Aix-la-Chapelle with
sweet carelessness, knowing that, however much brimstone he carried, he would strike only on
the box.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILY TIES.

    ["The journal (the Grashdanin) is of opinion that in making
    common cause with the other European Powers against China,
    Russia would but serve the ends of ... England to the
    prejudice of her own interests, which demand that she
    should not jeopardise the security of her Asiatic shores, or
    contribute to the complete ascendancy of Great Britain in
    the Pacific Ocean, by arousing the antagonism of
    China."--Times.]

Muscovite loquitur:--

  "Won't you help me bind the Dragon?" says the Briton to the Russ.
  Oho! ingenuous JOHNNY! I'm opposed to needless fuss,
  And have other fish to fry--say near the Oxus! Not a hang
  Do I care for what may happen on the great Yang-tse-Kiang.

