"I had hitherto," observes the writer, "been rather disappointed by the coral reefs, so far
as beauty was concerned; and though very wonderful, I had not seen in them much to admire.
One day, however, on the lee side of one of the outer reefs, I had reason to change my opinion.

"In a small bight of the inner edge of the reef was a sheltered nook, where every coral was
in full life and luxuriance. Smooth round masses Moeandrina and Astroea were contrasted with
delicate leaf-like and cup-shaped expansions of Explanaria, and with an infinite variety of
Madreporiæ and Seriatoporæ, some with more finger-shaped projections, others with large branching
stems, and others again exhibiting an elegant assemblage of interlacing twigs, of the most
delicate and exquisite workmanship. Their colours were unrivalled--vivid greens, contrasting
with more sober browns and yellows, mingled with rich shades of purple, from pale pink to deep
blue. Bright red, yellow, and peach-coloured Nulliporæ clothed those masses that were dead,
mingled with beautiful pearly flakes of Eschara and Retepora.

"Among the branches of the corals, like birds among trees, floated many beautiful fish, radiant
with metallic greens and crimsons, or fancifully banded with black and yellow stripes. Patches
of clear white sand were seen here and there for the floor, with dark hollows and recesses,
beneath overhanging masses and ledges. All those, seen through the clear crystal water, the
ripple of which gave motion and quick play of light and shadow to the whole, formed a scene
of the rarest beauty, and left nothing to be desired by the eye, either in elegance of form
or brilliancy and harmony of colouring."

This description we recommend to the rising generation of poets. It may furnish them with a
renewal of those conceptions of the dwellings of sea nymphs and syrens, which have, grown rather
faded, from hereditary copying, but which would be much refreshed by a voyage to the Great
Barrier Reef, or its best substitute, a glance at Mr Jukes's clever volumes.

We now pass generally over the prominent features of this part of the expedition. As it had
been among the directions given by the Admiralty, to mark the principal passage through the
great reef by a beacon, they fixed on Raine's Island, where they disturbed a colony of another
kind. The whole surface of the island, (a small one, of one thousand yards long by five hundred
wide, and in no part more than twenty feet above high-water mark,) was covered with birds,
young and old; there were frigate birds, gannets, boobies, noddies, and black and white terns;
the only land birds being land-rails. The description is very peculiar and picturesque. The
frigate birds, (who may have acted as a sort of aristocracy,) had a part completely to themselves;
their nests were a platform of a foot high, on each of which was one young bird, (the heir
to the estate.) But there were young of all growths, some able to fly, some just hatched, and
covered with a yellowish down. Those which could not fly assumed a fierce aspect at the approach
of strangers, and snapped their beaks. The boobies and gannets each also formed separate flocks,
but few of them had either eggs or young ones. All the rest of the island was covered with
the eggs and young ones of the terns and noddies. The terns' eggs lay scattered about the ground,
without any nest; the young terns also seemed each unalterably attached to the spot where it
had been hatched, and immediately returned to it on being driven off.

As night closed in, it was curious to see the long lines and flocks of birds streaming from
all quarters of the horizon towards the island. The noise was incessant and most tiresome.
On walking rapidly into the centre of the island, countless myriads of birds rose shrieking
on every side, so that the clangour was absolutely deafening, "like the roar of some great
cataract." The voyagers could see no traces of natives, nor of any other visitors to the island.

Among the wonders of creation is the existence of those myriads of creatures, wholly beyond
the uses of man, living where man had probably never trod since the Deluge, enjoying life to
the full capabilities of their organisation, sustained by an unfailing provision, and preserved
in health, animation, and animal happiness, generation after generation, through thousands
of years. Such is the work of divine power; but can it be doubted that it is also the work
of divine benevolence; that the Great Disposer of all takes delight in giving enjoyment to
all the works of his hand; that He rejoices in multiplying the means of enjoyment, its susceptibilities
and its occasions, to the utmost measure consistent with the happiness of the whole; and that--even
in those vast classes of inferior being which can have no faculty of acknowledging their benefactor,
from whom He can obtain no tribute of affection, no proof of obedience, and no return of gratitude--His
exhaustless desire, of communicating happiness acts throughout all?

This view certainly cannot be got rid of by saying, that all classes of nature are essential
to each other. What was the importance of a flock of sea fowl in the heart of the Pacific to
the human race for the last four thousand years? or what may it ever be? Yet they pursue their
instincts, exert their powers, sweep on the winds, range over the ocean, and return on the
wing night by night to their island, nestle in their accustomed spots, and flutter over their
young, without a shock or a change, without a cessation of their pleasures or a diminution
of their powers through ages! What must be the vigilance which watches over their perpetual
possession of existence and enjoyment; or what conclusion can be more just, natural, or consolatory
than that, "if not a sparrow falls to the ground without the knowledge and supervision of Providence,"
a not less vigilant care, and a not less profuse and exalted beneficence will be the providential
principle of the government of man, and the world of man!

The examination of Torres Strait was a chief object of the expedition; and we therefore give
a sketch of a passage which is constantly rising in importance.

All the islands which stretch across the Strait have a common character; all are steep and
rocky, and some six hundred feet in height. They are, in fact, the prolongation of the great
mountain chain of the eastern coast of Australia. The especial importance of Torres Strait
is, that it must continue to be almost the only safe route to the Indian Ocean from the South
Pacific--the S.E. trade-wind blowing directly for the Strait nearly the whole year within the
tropics, and during the summer being the prevailing wind over a large part of the extra-tropical
sea. The attempt to pass to the north of New Guinea would encounter a longer route, with dangers
probably much greater, in a sea still comparatively unexamined.

But it is admitted that the navigation of the Torres Strait and the Coral Sea, however exactly
surveyed, must always be hazardous. Hazy weather, errors of reckoning, errors in the chronometer,
&c., must always produce a considerable average of casualties in the Strait. Yet, from the
nature of the reef, when these casualties do occur, the vessel will generally be fixed on the
rocks long enough for the crew to escape in their boats. There, however, a new hazard begins.
The only places of refuge for these boats at present are Port Essington, six hundred miles
beyond Cape York; or Coupang, in Timor, five or six hundred miles further to the westward.

Mr Jukes strongly recommends the formation of a post at Cape York, as not merely enabling the
shipwrecked crews to arrive at an immediate place of safety, but as affording assistance to
the vessel, and securing her cargo. From Cape York there would be easy opportunities of a passage
to Singapore. In case of war, the advantages of having a military station at this point would
be of the highest value; as, otherwise, an enemy's corvette might command the Strait. It would
also make a valuable depôt for stores necessary for the relief of vessels. In case of the further
extension of steam navigation between India and New South Wales, of which there can now be
no doubt, Cape York would make an excellent coal depôt. In short, unless the narrator's imagination
runs away with him, it would answer any necessary purpose of navigation, and ought to attract
the consideration of government without loss of time.

Allowing for all the ardour of fancy, there can be no question that the period is coming rapidly
when the mind of Europe will be strongly directed to the natural wealth of the vast chain of
islands reaching from New Caledonia to New Guinea. China, the Moluccas, and the great islands
of the South, will hereafter supply a commerce unequalled in the East, or perhaps in the world.
Of this Torres Strait must inevitably be the channel; a new city will be necessary to concentrate
that commerce, and Cape York offers the foundation for a new Singapore.

If a philosopher were to inquire, in what portion of the globe man might enjoy the largest
portion of physical happiness; or if a politician were to search for a new seat of empire,
combining the capacity of sustaining the largest population and the most direct action on the
great adjoining continent; or if the merchant were to examine the Asiatic hemisphere, with
a mere view to the richness and variety of products--each would probably decide for the Indian
Archipelago; that immense region of immense islands lying between Sumatra and New Guinea, east
and west, and the Philippines and Timor, north and south.

They are at least a wholly new region; for though peopled for hundreds, or perhaps thousands
of years, and visited in the old times of European commerce with more frequency than even in
our active day, their actual condition remains nearly unknown: their fertility is comparatively
neglected; their spontaneous products are left to waste; their singular beauty is disregarded,
and their mineral wealth is unwrought. Their people are content with savage existence, and
the bounty of Heaven is thrown away in the loveliest portion of the globe. Piracy at sea, war
on land, tyranny, vice, and ignorance, are the habits and characteristics of a zone which could
sustain a population as numerous as that of Europe, and supply the wants and even the luxuries
of half the world. Celebes, New Guinea, Timor, Java, Borneo, that most magnificent of all islands,
if it should not rather be called a continent: the vast group of the Philippines, only await
the industry and intelligence of Europe. They will yet be brilliant kingdoms and mighty empires.

Why such noble realms should have been long given over to barbarism is among the most curious
questions of the philosopher, and of the Christian. May they not have been kept back from European
possession and utility on the providential principle, which we discover so often in the general
order of the divine government; namely, to be reserved as a reward and a stimulant to the growing
progress of mankind? They may have been suffered to remain in a state of savage life as a penalty
for the profligacy of their people, or they may have been condemned to their mysterious obscurity
until the impress of British power on India and China should have been deeply made, and England
should be led, by the possession of India and the opening of the Chinese coasts, to follow
the new course of wealth prepared for her in the commerce of the Indian Ocean.

Whatever may be the truth of those suggestions, nothing can be more evident, than that British
discovery and British interests are now involuntarily taking that direction. The settlement
on Borneo by the enterprise and intelligence of Mr Brookes has given our commerce, a sudden
and most unexpected footing in this queen of the Indian Ocean. The English colonisation of
Australia will inevitably sustain that intercourse. The flourishing settlement of Singapore,
and the growing population of the west coast of America, from Oregon down to California, all
converge toward the same result, the increased commerce and civilisation of the Indian islands.

It is also to be remembered, that those are all events of the last ten years. But when Mexico
shall have given up the Californias, which there seems every probability of her being compelled
to do, or to see them overrun by the active emigration from the United States, the impulse
will be still more rapid, powerful, and extensive. We look upon the whole series of these coasts
as all indication of some striking advance prepared for the general family of man.

In October 1844 the Fly left Port Essington, on her way to Java to refit. On the way they passed
a succession of islands, known by scarcely more than name to the English navigator. They all
seem to be volcanic, though their volcanoes may sleep; and rapid as the glance of the voyagers
was, they all, even in the wildness of precipitous shores and mountain peaks, exhibited beauty.

They steered up the channel which passes between the shores of Java and Madura, an island which
seems to have been cut out of Java. The Madura shore showed a continuous belt of the richest
tropical vegetation. The Java shore, though flat and swampy in this part, showed a back ground
of mountains, some of them from ten thousand to twelve thousand feet high. They were now in
Dutch territory; and, passing by some Dutch steamers and vessels of war, cast anchor near the
town of Sourabaya. Here the captain and some of the officers landed, found a large new fort
or citadel in the act of fortifying; walked through the town, which contained many good European
houses, mingled with hovels of the natives and Chinese; dined at a good table-d'hôte, got into
a calèche, and drove round the town, which seemed very extensive, and its suburbs still more
so. Here, except for the visages of the natives and the lamps of the Chinese, they might have
imagined themselves in Europe again. They drove up one road and down another for several miles,
under avenues of trees, interrupted here and there by the country-houses of Europeans. Many
of those seemed spacious; and all were thrown open, and lighted with many lamps. In front of
the houses were parties of ladies and gentlemen, sitting in verandas and porticoes, taking
tea or wine, smoking or playing cards, and chatting. They met one or two carriages of ladies
in full dress, driving about without bonnets to enjoy the cool of the evening.

Then came a scene of another kind. They re-entered the town by the Chinese quarter. The view
of the country in the morning was, however, much less captivating; it was flat and marshy,
and intersected by large ditches. The roads are on dykes four or five feet above the level
of the fields, and lined with rosewood trees, an Eastern Holland.

The Dutch have introduced a club, which they call Concordia, with billiard-tables, magazines,
a reading-room, and a department for eating and drinking. Of this the voyagers were invited
to be ordinary members. There was a book club among the English residents, where they enjoyed
the sight of several new publications and periodicals. All this was a pleasant interchange
for cruising among coral reefs, and being tossed about or starved in Torres Strait; and they
seem to have enjoyed it completely. Besides the Dutch civilities, they had a general invitation
from an English merchant, Mr Frazer, to his house a few miles in the country.

In those climates fresh air and cool rooms are the chief points. Mr Frazer's house was on the
Indian model. It had but one story and one principal room, in the centre of the house, opening
both before and behind, by two large doorways, into spacious porticoes, as large as the room
itself, and supported by pillars. Each of the wings was occupied by three good bed-rooms. It
stood in an enclosure of about an acre, with lawn, stables, and servants' offices. The floors
were tiles, covered with cane matting in the principal room. As soon as it grows dusk, the
central saloon is lighted up with many lamps, the doors and windows still remaining open; and
every now and then a carriage drives up, some acquaintance drops in for an hour or two, joins
the dinner-table, if he has not dined, or smokes a cigar if he has, and drives away again.
This seems an easy life: and the colonist who can thus lounge through the world certainly has
not much reason to exclaim against fortune. Yet this is the general life of all foreign settlements.
Among the guests a Mr Frazer's they met a remarkable character, a Mr M'Cleland, a Scotsman.
His history was adventurous; he was the individual mentioned in Washington Irving's Astoria,
who, on the return of the party overland, left them, and pushed on ahead by himself across
the Rocky Mountains. From America he went to China, and then fixed in Java, where, by energy
and intelligence, he has made an ample fortune. He is now possessor of a large foundery in
the island. The population of the town was about sixty thousand. The Javanese are described
generally as an excellent race of people, patient, good-tempered, and very handy. The man who
is to-day a carpenter, will turn blacksmith the next, and the peasant will become a sailor.
They seem also to be as candid, as they are ingenious. One of the officers at table said that
a servant who had been for several years his coachman, asked one day for permission to leave
his service and go as a sailor. On his being asked in turn whether he had any complaint to
make, the answer was, that he was only "tired of seeing the Colonel's face every day."

The Javanese gentleman is fond of dress, and his dress argues considerable opulence among his
class. The women of the higher class live retired, those of the lower are seen every where.

Life seems singularly busy in Sourabaya. The Chinese gentleman is driving about all day in
his pony chaise; the Chinese of the lower order is running about with his wicker-cases as a
pedlar, or else selling fruit or cooked provisions, with a stove to keep them warm; or sitting,
in the primitive style, under a tamarind tree, with silver and copper coinage before him to
cash notes. And the river is as busy as the shore; there are always groups of people bathing;
men and women are washing clothes; boats of all sizes, and for all purposes, laden with produce,
or crowded with people, are constantly passing along. Then there are the troops, who, under
the Dutch uniform, exhibit all castes and colours, from the European to the Negro--a force
amounting to about two thousand infantry, besides artillery and cavalry; and all this goes
on amid a perpetual clamour of voices, cries of every trade, tongues of every barbarism, and
that wild haste and restless eagerness in every movement which belongs to seaport life in every
portion of the globe.

The present discussions with the Dutch government on the subject of labour make it of importance
to know something on the subject of their colonies in the East. It is a curious circumstance
in the history of a people priding themselves on the liberty of commerce and their openness
of dealing with mankind, that they seem to have always hidden their Indian policy under the
most jealous reserve. They adopted this reserve from the first hour of their Indian navigation.
But then Holland was a republic, and a republic is always tyrannical in proportion to its clamour
for liberty, always oppressive in proportion to its promise of equal rights, and always rapacious
in proportion to its professed respect for the principle of letting every man keep his own.

But though the cap is now exchanged for a crown, and the stadtholder is a monarch, the policy
seems to flourish on the old footing of their close-handed fathers.

The Eastern dominions of Holland are under the authority of a governor-general and a council,
composed of four members, and a vice-president; the governor-general being president. This
sounds well at least for the liberty of discussion. But the sound is all. The power of the
council consists simply in giving its opinion, to which the governor may refuse to listen.
The governor receives his orders directly from the colonial minister at home, and the colonial
minister, though apparently responsible to the sentiment of the Chambers, yet echoes those
of the King.

But there is another authority which is supposed to rule the government itself. This invisible
prime mover is a joint commercial company, the Maatschappy, established in 1824, with a charter
giving it a strict monopoly of all commerce to the Indies for twenty-five years, which has
been recently renewed for ten years more. The late King was a large shareholder, the present
King is presumed to inherit his father's shares; most of the members of the Chambers are shareholders;
and the Maatschappy, besides the supply of the islands with all necessaries, acts as agent
for the Crown, receives the produce gathered by the authorities of Java, carries it home, sells
it, and accounts for the proceeds to the Dutch government. But the company have a still heavier
hold on the government, a debt for £3,340,000 sterling; and for this they have in mortgage
the whole produce received in the East, the company deducting their own interest and commission
before they pay the proceeds.

But we have the gratification of being told that even the Maatschappy does not carry every
thing in triumph, and that there is a proposal to release one-third of the sugar produced by
parties having contracts with them, on condition of the other two-thirds being delivered of
a superior quality; and it is added that this relaxation has taken place simply from the distresses
of the colonies, and in the hope of introducing specie, there being nothing in use at present
but a debased copper coin. This measure would add to the trifling free produce of Java about
18,500 tons.

The Dutch possessions in the East are very large, and under due management would be of incalculable
value. They comprise part of the island of Sumatra; the islands of Banca and Billiton; the
islands of Bintang and Linga; the Macassar government, including parts of Celebes and Sumhana;
the Molucca islands; the south-west half of Timor; some late conquests in Bali; and large portions
of the southern part of Borneo, which have been recently formed into two residencies. For these
statistics we are indebted to the narrative of Mr Jukes.

Java was first made known to us, with any degree of historical or physical accuracy, by the
late Sir Stamford Raffles, the amiable and intelligent British Resident during its possession
by our government between 1811 and 1816. But it was known to Europe for three centuries before.
The Portuguese, once the great naval power, and most active discoverers in Europe,--so much
do the habits and faculties of nations change,--had made to themselves a monopoly of eastern
possession, after the passage round the Cape by De Gama, and fixed upon Java for their first
settlement in the Indian Ocean. Almost a century passed, before their supremacy was disturbed.
But then a new and dangerous rival appeared. The Dutch, already an enterprising and warlike
nation, sweeping every sea with their commercial or military ambition,--so much have times
been changed with them, too,--also fixed on Java, and formed a vigorous and thriving settlement
at Bantam. In the beginning of the seventeenth century, the English, making a first and feeble
attempt at eastern commerce, to the south of India, formed a factory at Bantam. But the Dutch,
indignant at even the shadow of rivalry, broke down alike the decaying influence of the Portuguese
and the rising influence of the English, planned a new and stately Eastern Capital, which,
in the spirit of the Hollander, they planted in the most swampy part of the island; and, surrounded
with ditches, in the closest resemblance to Holland, led a pestilential existence in the fatness
of fens passable only through canals. Batavia was built, the proverbial place of filth and
opulence. The Dutch gradually became masters of this fine island; divided it into seventeen
provinces, and occupying the commercial coast, left the southern to the divided and helpless
authority of the two native princes, the Sultan and the Susuhunan.

The French revolutionary war naturally involved the Dutch in the general conquest of the Netherlands.
The rash republicanism of the factions which had expelled the stadtholder, was speedily punished
by the plunderings and corruptions of their new allies, and the insolent and atrocious annexation
of Holland to the French empire was followed by the additional calamity of a war with England,
which stripped her of all her colonies. An English expedition sailed for Java, stormed its
defences, and took possession of Batavia and the Dutch possessions on the island in 1811. An
English government was established, Sir Stamford Raffles was placed at its head, and Java with
its infinite natural resources and incomparable position, promised to become one of the most
important of the Indian colonies of England.

But at the peace of Paris, in 1815, the British policy, which was directed to the conciliation
of the Dutch, and the erection of Holland into a barrier against France, induced the restoration
of Java. This act of liberality met with strong remonstrance; and a memorial from the British
Resident placed in the fullest point of view the probable value and actual advantages of retaining
Java. But the policy was already determined on. It is said that, on the Resident's return to
England, he found his original memoir in some of the depositories of strangled remonstrances,
with its seals unbroken. The reason however, may have been, that the restoration was un fait
accompli.

But the sacrifice was useless. The sudden whim for Radicalism at home, and revolution abroad,
which seized British statesmen in the first frenzy of the Reform Bill, instead of punishing
the revolt of the Belgians, suffered the dismemberment of the kingdom of the Netherlands; a
measure of the most shortsighted policy, which has now placed Belgium in the most serious hazard
of being absorbed by its all-swallowing neighbour France, on the first convulsion of the continent.
But, as England has no inclination to disturb her neighbours, and is never guilty of that last
atrocity of nations, breach of treaties; the great colony is still left in Dutch hands, and
will be left, until some new folly compels its resumption.

Java is a noble island; singularly shaped, for its length is about four times its average breadth;
six hundred miles by about one hundred and fifty. Its whole extent is fifty thousand square
miles, or nearly the size of England. But its fertility of all kinds is incalculably superior.
From its diversity of climate, it is obviously capable of raising European as well as tropical
productions. Its climate, too, is healthful, notwithstanding the illfame of Batavia. Even there,
the inhabitants have at length learned to prefer fields to swamps, and fresh air to the vapour
of ditches; for the greater portion have either gone into the interior, or live in suburbs
extending to considerable distances. In fact, the original fen-loving Hollander has passed
away, and another generation has sprung up, which prefers health and long life even to dollars
and dyspepsia. Yet, what is Java, to the islands almost within her view? To Sumatra, with her
one hundred and sixty thousand square miles, and Borneo, with her two hundred and eighty-six
thousand--almost a continent; and those vast territories not wild and barren plains, like the
huge spaces of Australia, nor frozen for one half of the year, like our settlements in America,
but overflowing with the richest vegetable products of the earth, covered with herds of the
buffalo and other cattle, and sheeted with forests up to the summits of their ranges of mountains.
What their mineral wealth may be, remains for European investigation; but gold has been found
in their rivers, and from the various heights of their hills, we may fairly suppose them, in
some instances at least, metalliferous.

Yet Java--of the same extent with England, produce almost spontaneous, without any endemic
disease, and with the dissensions of the natives kept down by the Dutch authority--is calculated
to have but nine millions of people, about less than half of the souls of England. So little
does population depend upon plenty, climate, or even upon peace. The Dutch government appears
to be honest, and the reverse of severe; its offices are well conducted, its salaries seem
to be substantial and sufficient, and its general rule of the island appears to be directed
to suppressing violence among the native tribes.

But the sudden impulse which now urges European enterprise to the extremities of the earth;
which sends expeditions to invade the territories of the seal and the whale at the South Pole,
and plants cities within the gales of the arctic snows, must at length turn to the golden islands
of the Indian Ocean. There, new powers will be awakened, new vigour will take place of old
stagnation, and those matchless portions of the globe will give their treasures to the full
use of man.

As it was determined to refit the ship in Java, time was given for the curiosity of Mr Jukes
and the officers to employ itself in examining the interior. After various difficulties, connected
with official forms in passing through the different Dutch provinces,--in which, however, it
is only justice to the governors to acknowledge, that in general they conducted themselves
with much civility,--the party, consisting of four, at length set out. They found post-houses
at every half dozen miles apart, with a good carriage-road; they passed by a succession of
villages, through a flat country covered with rice and sugar-cane, interspersed with large
belts of wood. But those were villages concealed by groves of fruit trees. On their way, they
stopped to see a sugar manufactory--a Belgian partnership. The house was large and handsome,
and the establishment complete. This is a new manufacture in Java. They were now running along
the northern coast of the island, and after a drive of forty miles in six hours, they arrived
at Passarouan, which they unexpectedly found to be a large town with several wide streets,
Chinese houses in court yards, and European residences, having lawns and carriage drives. The
native Javanese resided in separate quarters, each of which is surrounded by a fence of bamboo
paling, or a wall. We should conceive these people to lead a primitive and pleasant life, for
in those quarters the bamboo houses seemed to be scattered indiscriminately under the shade
of bananas, cocoa nuts, and other fruit trees.

The Dutch residents or governors, appear also to be very much at their ease. The salary of
the resident of Passarouan, though nominally but £1,500 a-year, amounts to £3,400 sterling
besides, as it is the custom that each resident has a per centage on the coffee, sugar, tobacco,
rice, &c., raised in his district. An income of this order, when we consider the cheapness
of all the necessaries of life in the island, must be regarded as a very liberal provision.

They saw, as they passed through the rice fields, a curious but simple contrivance for preserving
the growing crops from the flocks of sparrows. In the centre of the fields small sheds were
erected on posts, from which strings with feathers radiated in every direction. A boy, or girl,
was stationed in the shed to keep the strings in motion, in order to frighten away the birds.

On the road they passed a large market, crowded with people. They found rows of stalls or long
sheds, in some of which European articles, such as cutlery and drapery, were offered for sale;
in others were drugs, fruit, confectionery, or salt fish. The traffickers, too, seemed to be
enjoying themselves, as some of the stalls had benches before them, on which sat people drinking
coffee, and eating rice, hot sweet potatoes, fruit, and sweet-meats. Their next stage was a
town named Probolingo, and they were again surprised at the extent of a place perfectly new
to them. Broad roads with avenues of lofty trees intersected each other at right angles, bounded
by the fences of the native Kampangs, or Javanese quarters, which looked like large orchards.
There were also at intervals European houses of good size and appearance, each in its own grounds,
with a carriage-drive under the trees. They found, also, the still rarer evidence of a comfortable
condition of general intercourse,--a good hotel; of which the master, however, spoke "but little
English." Our curiosity is left in doubt, whether his accomplishments were Dutch or Javanese.

There were some English settlers in this neighbourhood; and some of the party drove out to
visit the sugar establishment of Mr Etty--brother of the well-known artist--about three miles
from the town. He was in England, but his sons came down in the evening to the hotel to offer
their civilities. They had been out pig-shooting, and had enjoyed their sport, such as it is,
for they had killed thirteen pigs. The party were invited to similar shooting for the next day.

On the next day they went; but an old carriage and a clumsy charioteer delayed them, and they
arrived some three hours after their appointment. But etiquette does not seem to have been
the order of the day, for the inviters had gone out to enjoy their pig-shooting by themselves.
The invited were left to amuse themselves as they might until seven or eight o'clock, when
the inviters returned, and the whole party sat down to dinner. At dinner, their talk was of tigers.

Whether Mr Jukes gives this incident in wrath, or simple recollection, we know not; but we
surmise, that he and his friends would have been just as well pleased if the owners of the
sugar establishment had not brought them out so far for nothing.

Next day they proceeded on their excursion, and found native civility on the alert every where.
Some orders to this effect appeared to have been sent to the Dutch authorities. At the first
post-house where they stopped, a man stepped forward with a tray of cups of tea, glasses of
cocoa and water, and rice-cakes; and a large party were awaiting them with ponies. Each of
them also found a man on horseback ready to attend him, and carry his gun and game-bag. A petty
chief rode before them, and another with a small party brought up the rear, so that they formed
quite a cavalcade. But the natives with their gaily-coloured dresses, blue and red coloured
saddles, silver trappings to their horses, and ornamented creeses in their girdles, "quite
cut out the Englishmen in appearance, with their dingy shooting-jackets and soiled trousers."

And here we may fairly ask the question, why those gentlemen should have appeared in "dingy
shooting-jackets and soiled trousers?" This is not a question of dandyism. They were to appear
before the authorities of another country, before the gentlemen of another nation. They were
also to be presented to native gentlemen and rajahs, who have as quick an eye for the outward
man as any people in the world. And while those showy costumes--even in so trifling a matter
as the attendance on a shooting-party--exhibited the taste of the people in those matters,
why should the Englishman exhibit his own, in dingy shooting-jackets and soiled trousers? In
fact, in matters of this kind, a man in foreign countries, and especially in the military and
naval service of his country, should recollect the effect of this beggarliness on the mind
of strangers. The party must have been the objects of ridicule and contempt to the very peasants
around them.

As they rose towards the hills, the country appeared to be in general richer and more picturesque.
From the summit of the first ridge the country before them was gently undulating, interspersed
with patches of wood, that looked like a wide-spread park, till at some miles distance it rose
up the slopes of a volcanic mountain--the Lamongan. On the sides of this huge volcano, the
woods became thicker and more continuous, till they reached the bare piles of ashes and cinders
forming the upper cone.

The road then lay through coffee plantations. These were very pleasant-looking places. The
coffee shrubs were planted in rows, with tall trees between each row to shelter the coffee
from the sun. The alleys between the trees were carpeted by rich green turf, forming pleasant
glades. The plantations were generally neatly fenced and often extensive; as much as twenty
or thirty acres in one plot. Every now and then they passed on the roadside a noble tree, with
wide-spread, drooping branches, a species of banyan tree, under which was often seen a bullock-waggon
with its team.

All this was oriental and picturesque; but the scenery sometimes reminded them of spots in
Devonshire, so green and fresh was all the vegetation, and so pleasant were the deep narrow
lanes and sparkling brooks. Their halting-place for the day was a large and lofty bamboo-house
on a raised terrace of brick, having a broad veranda all round, a large central saloon, and
two or three good and well-furnished bed-rooms on each side. This veranda had the advantage
also of a noble landscape. At the back, it looked down a steep bank to a beautiful circular
lake about a quarter of a mile across, bordered by a thick belt of wood, and right over it
at a few miles' distance, the stately cone of the Lamongan, upwards of four thousand feet high,
with a wreath of white smoke curling from its summit.

To this feast of natural beauty was added the more substantial one of the table. In the veranda
they found a table spread with a snow-white cloth, and all the conveniencies of plate, glass,
and cutlery. A troop of willing servitors was in attendance, who covered the table with a smoking-hot
breakfast, piles of rice curries, pillaus, and fruits, with tea and coffee. All this seemed
to be done by enchantment; there was no host, no master of the house to trouble them with ceremony;
the house and all that belonged to it seemed to be theirs as long as they chose to stay. Whose
was the furniture, or who provided the entertainment, they knew not. In those comfortable quarters,
they determined to halt for the next day, and try to get a little shooting.

The naturalist, however, on this evening, employed himself more rationally than his companions.
While they went out shooting, he took his hammer and went to the ravine, to learn something
about the masses of lava and basalt which lay every where. The whole ground gave evidences
of the existence of an ancient volcano. The circular lake seemed to have been a crater; its
depth was said to be three hundred and ninety feet. But the noble proportions of the landscape
still attracted the eye, and within the horizon shot up the pile of the Semmi,--the loftiest,
most perfect, and most majestic-looking cone that they ever saw in Java, its height being twelve
thousand two hundred and ninety-two feet--a greater elevation than that of the Peak of Teneriffe.
Every thing was lovely in form and colour, and glittered in the hot sunshine, while a fine
fresh breeze from the south tempered the heat, and gave it the feeling of a summer day at home.

Still, though all this seemed a land of magic, to those who probably had never thought of Java
but as a place of pestilence, of burning soil, and scorching sunshine, it was not all fairy
land. After dinner, at dusk, as Mr Jukes was strolling round the house smoking a cigar, a man
with a long spear came up to him, and began to turn him back with an earnest speech, of which
the only word he understood was machan; but it was an important one, and the point of the whole
oration, for it is the Javanese for tiger.

Having recourse to one of the party as interpreter, he found that the spearman was begging
of him not to walk in the dark, as tigers were abundant there; which, he emphatically assured
them, eat men, and that they had even sometimes come into the house. In the veranda they found
a guard of four spearmen, keeping watch for the same purpose. The Englishman thought that they
were jesting, until he saw that none of the people themselves went a few yards beyond the house
without a torch. One man going to bathe in the lake just below, another accompanied him with
a torch. They also saw four men coming up the road with two large torches, who, they said,
were returning from their work from the village hard by. They still thought their fears a little
exaggerated; but on that very night a man was killed by a tiger at a village about two miles
off, as he was going to his work before daylight with two others. His body was recovered the
next day.

In the morning, the party went out to shoot any thing that came in their way. Their success,
however, was limited to a pig, and a brace of jungle fowl. Some of the party saw tracks of
tigers, but they attack nobody during the day; the night being their time for retaliation.
Another division of their party coming home by a straight course across the country, and just
before it got dark, found themselves on the borders of a district which had been mentioned
to them as the most noted haunt of tigers in the whole country. Cocking their guns, however,
they pushed through the grass, that rose often three feet above their heads, for about half
a mile, not without a feeling of half hope, half fear, of the rush of a tiger through the jungle.
From this nervous predicament, however, they escaped. Half an hour later they might have told
a different story, or perhaps would have been left without the power of telling one. Their
shot-pouches would have made but an indifferent defence against the charge of a supperless
tiger; and the philosopher might have finished his earthly career in the retaliatory jaws of
the lord of the jungle.

We recommend Java to all country gentlemen tired of time; they will have plenty of shooting
of every kind there--the lion alone excepted; bears are in abundance and great ferocity; wild
boars in droves: with the wild buffalo, the most dangerous of all animals to meet with, and
far more dreaded by the natives than the tiger himself. The tiger is to be found every day
throughout the year, and every where from twilight to sunrise. For the more récherchés in shooting,
there is the rhinoceros, the most capital of all sport, as it is called; for in nine instances
out of ten he kills his man. Unless the sportsman hits him in the eye, double barrels are unavailing;
his hide would turn off every thing but a cannon ball. If the shot is not imbedded in his brain,
he dashes after the sportsman at once; escape then can only be by miracle, for unwieldy as
he looks, he runs like a race-horse, rips up the fugitive with his horn, and finishes by trampling
him into a mass of mortality that leaves not a feature distinguishable. Thus, field-sports
are not altogether confined to gentlemen.

But for glories of this order, the amateur must travel to some distance; he must penetrate
the deep and trackless forests of the southern Sultan, or ascend to the volcanic regions of
the interior.

We now hasten to the close of these interesting volumes. The whole party seem to have been
treated with remarkable civility, and to have been shown all kinds of strange things. Among
the other curiosities, they were taken to visit the Sultan of Madura, a hospitable old man,
who treated them like fellow sultans, paraded his guards for them, gave them a feast which
seemed to be all but interminable, played the native fiddle for them, led his own royal orchestra
with some skill, played vingt-et-un with them, and finished by a species of ombres Chinoises,
or shadowy drama, which lasted through the whole night. As the Englishmen began to droop, he
exercised all the English which he possessed, to offer them "a glass of grog," which he evidently
considered to be essential to English enjoyment; and after his visitors had retired to rest,
he continued to sit out the play--which lasted the mortal measure of ten hours; a feat exceeding
the endurance, though probably not the ennui, of a regular amateur of the Italian Opera. The
populace, too, exhibited the same dramatic ardour, for they continued gazing, laughing, and
shouting, with all the perseverance of their old sovereign.

The revenues of this chief are enormous, though they amount only to £8,000 sterling; but then
we are to recollect that the wages of a Javanese workman are but five duits, or five-sixths
of an English penny; and that for this he can "live very well." Man gets plantains and fruits
for almost nothing. His clothing is made of a simple wrapper, and a day or two's cutting of
bamboo gives him a very sufficient house. Let this be compared with the Irish peasant, shivering
through three months of winter, and six months of wet, paying five pounds an acre for his swampy
potatoes, and out of his holding paying tithe, tax, county rates, and all the other encumbrances
of what the political economists call "a highly civilised state of society." We say "vive le
systéme féodal, vive la sauvagerie Javannaise."

One half of the Sultan's revenue arises from a singular source--the sale of birds' nests, which
are found in the rocks, and which the Chinese purchase as a restorative. The Chinese, a remarkably
gross and voluptuous people, are the greatest quacks on earth, and are continually attempting
to reinstate by medicine, what they have ruined by excess. But soup is pleasant physic, and
they boil these birds' nests into soup, in full reliance on the miracle.

The Englishmen tasted some of this soup, among the luxuries of the Sultan's table, and highly
approved of it; but its merits depended on many capital ingredients, the birds' nests merely
acting as a sort of connective, an isinglass to the whole. It is probable that their whole
virtue is in the fashion.

In looking at the future, through all the mists which beset the vision of man, it seems scarcely
possible to doubt that these regions are intended for a vast and vigorous change. It may not
be a European change. Society may not be cast into the furnace, as it has been by those struggles,
wars, and revolutions, which were essential to the working of the iron temperament of Europe.
But Providence, if we may so speak without irreverence, evidently delights in the variety,
multitude, and novelty of its highest expedients. If no two great portions of the physical
world are like in form, climate, product, and even in the colouring of their skies, why are
we to insist on uniformity in government, in human feeling, or in those national impulses which
shape society? The throne, the constitution, and the laws of England, noble advances as they
are to the perfection of the social system, may be unfit for the man sitting under his palm
tree within the tropics, the navigator in the summer seas of the Indian Ocean, or even for
the rude vigour and roving enterprise of Australia. But we have no fears of the failure of
that glorious and beneficent Cycle, by which happiness seems revolving, by whatever slow degree,
through every race of mankind. There is but one thing which is indispensable among all, and
that one thing is, the only nation on earth qualified to give Christianity; and we, with no
presumptuous glance, but with no hesitating belief, regard the almost boundless colonial empire
of England as conferred upon our island for the express purpose of spreading pure religion
through the various regions of the globe. With all our sense of the caution necessary in struggling
against the rude prejudices of the barbarian, and with no inferior sense of the caution necessary
in the admixture of human conceptions, with the will of Him who "walketh in clouds;" with all
our regret for the extravagance of enthusiasm, and all our conviction of the evil which is
daily done to truth by the rashness of conjecture, we yet believe that a time is approaching,
when the elements of society will be, at least, partially dissolved, for the sake of their
replacement in higher purity and power; when the general frame of dominion throughout the world,
will be, at least, dislocated, that it may be renewed in higher activity and beauty; and when
a world in which a new obedience, a new integrity, a new beneficence to man, and a new homage
to heaven, will be the characteristics, shall be formed to vindicate the justice of Providence,
and complete the happiness of man.

Then we shall see the original powers of those neglected nations brightened, enlarged, and
elevated into forms and uses, of which they themselves have been unconscious since their birth.
Then shall we see governments on principles adapted to the nature of the dweller in the Asiatic
plains, of the hunter of the everlasting Himmalaya, and the navigator of the waveless Pacific;
calling out the native faculties of those vast divisions of mankind, raising, the natural products
of inexhaustible soils, whose fertility is now buried in their bosom, and sharing with the
nations of the earth the countless mineral treasures which have been locked up in their hills
since the Creation; the whole being poured out, to meet the new demands, increase the new engagements,
and stimulate the new animation of the increasing millions of mankind.

The observations made by Mr Jukes on the mental effect of the southern climates of Asia, are
striking, but they are the same which have been made for thousands of years. The European is
not made for those climates. Carrying with him, in his first adventure, his original energy
of mind and frame, he is astonished to see the land tenanted by human beings who are content
with mere existence. The bold climber of the hills,--the daring mariner,--the intelligent and
delighted inquirer into all the wonders of earth and ocean, sees himself surrounded by men
lying on sofas, living only to eat, and careless of the whole brilliant profusion which tissues
the ground, or fills the forest, or variegates the shore.

But the second generation inevitably feels the influence, and the son of the sinewy and susceptible
European becomes the languid, self-satisfied, and voluptuous Oriental.

In fact, the two races are totally different. The Asiatic has some noble qualities. The Creator
has not altogether effaced his own image in any region of human habitancy. He has fancy, keenness
of conception, desperate but unwilling bravery, scientific faculties, and a quiet delight in
the richness of his own lovely islands and pyramidal mountains.

But, to the European alone is allotted the master quality of energy; and by that gift he drives
the world before him. This resistless quality he perhaps owes chiefly to his sullen skies and
rugged soils. Even in the East, the man of the desert, the son of the storm and the snow, has
always been the conqueror of India. The Osmanli sultans were forced to raise the boldest of
their battalions among the Christians of the north of Greece. And we shall yet see the Australian
sweeping before him the indolence of the Birman and the Javanese. This he will owe to the sterility
of his fields and the half European blasts of his more salubrious and stringent atmosphere.
The maxim of Montesquieu, that "poverty always conquers wealth," solves but half the problem.
The true solution is, that the poverty of the soil compels the exertion of a vigour, which
severity of climate alone can generate among a people. For three hundred years the population
of Jutland and Denmark almost annually swept the southern shores of Europe itself. The Norman
was invincible on land. Even the great barbarian invasions which broke down the Roman empire,
were the work of nerves hardened in the forest and in the desert. The same causes have made
the storm-beaten Englishman lord of India. But India will never be a British colony. It will
never be, like America, a land of Englishmen. The second generation will be Indians, while
Australia will be the southern England. This is evidently the law of a Will above man.

We must congratulate Mr Jukes on the value of his publication. Scientific without being abstruse,
and picturesque without being extravagant, he has made his volumes a striking and graceful
addition to our knowledge of countries, highly interesting in themselves, and, assuming hourly
importance in the eyes of the people of England. By J.B.JUKES, Naturalist to the Expedition.
2 Vols. Boone, London.

AMERICAN COPYRIGHT.

    New York, August, 1847.

My Dear Godfrey,--I am sorry to begin my letter with an apology, but I feel that one is due
for the very unsatisfactory manner in which, on a former occasion, I answered your grave inquiries
about the pirates who thrive on the plunder of Maga. The jocular vein which I incontinently
struck and perseveringly followed up, led me very wide of your mark, and I was obliged to leave
you quite unsatisfied on another point, about which, for one who is not an author, you seem
to be singularly excited. To waive my astonishment at the Benthamism of the phrase, pray what
is "International Copyright" to Godfrey, that he should weep for such a Hecuba? I should have
been as little surprised, had you asked me to inquire the opinion of the Indians as to the
best regimen for infants. A veritable author, suffering by wholesale American rapine, would
have commanded my sympathies, and I should have replied instinctively, in that tone of consideration
which is always due to dignified misfortune; but when you, with your rod and gun, soberly popped
me a query in which I could not see that either widgeon or gudgeon were particularly concerned,
I confess I feared you were quizzing me, and was fairly off my guard. Forgive me that I was
so slow to appreciate the true state of the case. It has only very lately occurred to me that
both you and I are somewhat changed since we placed the summum bonum in Waltonian idleness,
and that you have very possibly renounced fly-fishing, and settled down into a literary incubation,
likely to bless the world with a brood of booklings. With this consideration, I now again address
you, intending to preserve that propriety of thought and speech, which on the subject of literary
property, I feel due to the future Great Unknown of Southern Britain. You observe that I take
it for granted, you will affect the anonymous; and I would venture to add my counsel to your
choice of a course so judicious. You have no idea how great an inconvenience you would suffer,
should Godfrey Hall be turned prematurely into another Abbotsford--an event which is certain,
should you allow the secret of your new character to transpire. Your comparative nearness to
the metropolis would greatly facilitate the irruption of bores; especially as there would probably
be a branch railway chartered forthwith, for the express purpose of setting down company at
the nearest possible point of access to your venerable gateway. Besides, even you have too
much regard to the land of Kit North, to entertain any desire to see its most attractive shrine
of pilgrimage too suddenly eclipsed; and why should you court such an exposure of popular fickleness,
when about to become yourself "the comet of a season," and to go through that brilliant perihelion,
in which, reversing the feat of Horace with his lofty head, you will sweep away all other stars
with a swinge of your luminous caudality? Yes, Godfrey--spare your own feelings, and treat
us to another Great Unknown! I am sure such will be your determination, and so I will simply
subjoin the hope that nothing will interfere with the speedy completion of your maiden effort--"NAPPER
TANDY; or, 'TIS FIFTY YEARS SINCE." Don't startle at my naming your hero, and suggesting your
plot; for though I will venture to say that I have hit the nail on the head, I assure you it
is only a happy surmise. You must know that nothing could be so interesting as a recurrence
to the exciting epoch of Ninety-eight; and why should not the sister kingdom have its romance,
as well as the land of the Scots? I have always thought that Stuart rising very much overrated--a
mere scratch to what happened in Ireland. Kilmarnock was a poor-spirited fellow compared with
Emmet; and though there were many better men than Balmerino among the United Irishmen, it would
be hard to find a worse one than Lord Lovat. I suspect, therefore, that besides your design,
I have actually discovered your title page; though it is barely possible that the melancholy
fate of Wolfe Tone, with the indistinct tone of ferocity that is perceptible in his name, may
have suggested the compellation of that unfortunate gentleman, as more significant of the wolfish
atrocities with which your tale will necessarily abound. Whatever be the name, make haste with
the book, and do not wait ten years in order to have another "Sixty Years Since." You must
see that congruity requires the semi-centenary, and that Sir Walter was a full decennium behind-hand.
The demise of O'Connell at this interesting juncture, must be regarded as a coincidence every
way satisfactory, whether we consider the fulness of his fame, the conclusion of an era, or
the interests of your forthcoming work. It has prepared public sympathy, and tuned the strings
upon which you call successfully play for the next quarter of an age; and I hazard little in
arguing that your literary nativity will be accomplished under the ascendant of the most favourable
planet.

Regarding you, then, as what you will speedily become--a successful adventurer, with a whole
navy of American corsairs in chase of your literary cargo--the question takes this shape:--How
does the American law of copyright affect you as a British author, and what can be done to
save "Napper Tandy"? To answer you properly, let me first expound the law itself, which, for
your special benefit, I have taken pains to examine.

You are doubtless aware that the constitution of this republic is one which answers the great
test proposed by Tom Paine, who imagined it to be of the essence of a free constitution that
it should be capable of being put into the pocket! That splendid capability was never more
fully realised by the laws of a sixpenny club, than by the great charter of American liberties.
It is a thing written on paper, and may be thrust into the breeches, or hung up on the wall,
as best suits the notions of its worshipper, and his manner of exhibiting respect. Now the
law of copyright is not here, as you suppose, a mere matter of statute; nor is the doctrine
that an author has no perpetual property in what his intellect creates, a simple decision of
courts. An American writer has remarked, that its equivalent would have been the concession
of a power to promote the fisheries, by allowing to fishermen a limited number of the cod-fish
and herrings which they take on a Newfoundland fog-bank. Here then, you will say, is a fundamental
obstruction to literary justice in America! But your hasty conclusion will show that you have
thought but little on written constitutions. I agree with the Count de Maistre, that such instruments
are of all things the most slippery. What is easier than for Congress to evade its restriction,
and make the limited time exactly the years of Methusaleh! Such a limit would be about as good
as "to one's heirs for ever." But there is yet another facility in written constitutions: "a
breath unmakes them, as a breath has made." In America, a constitution is as easily overhauled,
new-ribbed, and launched again, as ever a sloop-of-war was dry-docked and new-coppered. Here,
for instance, is the great "Empire State" of New York, with a constitution hardly a year old!
The stripling who has just attained his majority, has actually survived the whole life of its
predecessor; and he who lives half as long again, will see the new one superannuated and going
the way of all written constitutions. The late constitution of this State was in many respects
a noble one; but its successor plays the mischief with every thing; and I have heard an old
freeholder complain that he hardly knows whether he has a house, a wife, or a head on his shoulders;
so radically has the revolution affected whatever is social and civil. This will show you that
there is, after all, no necessary perpetuity in the present condition of things; and so I come
to the statute, which is the only just cause of complaint.

The English origin of the law is very apparent. It retains some features of the old statute
of Queen Anne, with others of 54 Geo. III., which has lately been made so familiar in parliamentary
reports. It secures authors in their property for a term of twenty-eight years, and provides
for renewing this security for half that period, upon a renewal of entry. One copy of every
work thus protected, must be deposited with the Clerk of the United States' Court for the District
where it is entered; and by a late enactment, the author must contribute another copy to the
library of "the Smithsonian Institute,"--that unmeaning benevolence of an unfortunate scion
of the Northumberland family, which is already beginning to be regarded as a folly, and which
one would think might have been made to subserve the interests of authors, rather than furnish
another occasion for the exercise of legislative ingenuity, in adding to their many annoyances.
The other important features of the Act are the penalty for piracy, and the restriction of
protection to citizens and residents; in other words, the punishment of piracy in certain cases,
and its license in others. Thus the same Act is dainty of rights, if the craft swim in rivers
and bays, but hands over to the black flag whatever is found on the highway of nations. Persons
pirating a copyright work are liable to a forfeiture of every copy in their keeping, whether
of their own manufacture or otherwise; and besides this, to a fine of one dollar a sheet upon
the same, of which one moiety goes to the author, and the residue to the government. Why should
it be culpable to steal from a resident, and laudable to do the same thing with a stranger?
If a foreign mechanic exports his goods, they are as safe in New York, as the wealth of John
Jacob Astor; but no kind of mercy is shown to the product of a foreigner's brain--than which
one would think nothing but his soul should be more sacred among all Christian men. On the
contrary--not content with leaving him unprotected, there is in the tariff an express provision
for the encouragement of plunder. No one pretends that the revenue of the United States requires
the tax of ten per cent. ad valorem, upon all importations of "books printed, magazines, pamphlets,
and illustrated newspapers, bound or unbound;" yet, such are the terms of the tariff of 1846,
and it was designed expressly to prevent importations, and encourage the piratical, manufacture
of such things at home. I say so, because it is notorious, and has been exposed by American
writers themselves.

Now, let us see how "Napper Tandy" is likely to fare under regulations like these! Can it be
possible, you will say, that the Model Republic cherishes designs so predatory; and is there
no other explanation of a law which seems so outrageous? There are laws, I am aware, which
are by no means what they seem, and British law is the last to dispense with a concession so
important. I have, therefore, put this American statute into every light that seemed likely
to show it to better advantage, and I confess there is one view of the subject, which, as being
myself a resident, it gives me pleasure to suggest. Is it not conceivable, after all, that
the original purpose of the statute was merely to extend, to exactly such worthies as the author
of "Napper Tandy," a polite invitation to a literary sojourn in America? You know how many
British authors, with no such inducements, have preferred Italy to their native land; and why
should not this country, at least in the partial eyes of its own legislators, be worthy of
a share of their company? The suggestion is equally complimentary to the law-givers, and to
those whose society is thus held at a premium. It is true, that, excepting Will Cobbett, few
English writers of eminence have taken the hospitable hint; but who could have foreseen this
result, when so many of the literary race are perpetually sighing for lodges in the wilderness,
and dwellings in the desert! Monsieur Dumas might indeed be reluctant to accept the flattering
overtures of a country which is known to cherish such antipathies to his great ancestor Ham,
and all that interesting family; and is quite, excusable for preferring the persecutions of
French courts of justice, to the patronage which American law would more fully accord to his
books than to his person; but why should not you, my dear Godfrey, become as original in your
manner of life, as I am sure you will be in the productions of your genius? Why should you
not court a "boundless contiguity of shade," and issue your immortal works from the depths
of a Pennsylvanian forest, as gracefully as Lord Byron sent forth his from the more vulgarised
retirement of Tuscany? Residing here, you could hold the sons of rapine at bay, enjoying at
once your American harvests, and the golden remittances of your publishers in England. But
the crowning consideration is this, that should you undertake the protection of your darling
Maga, an arrangement with Mr Blackwood, and the publication of "Napper Tandy" in his incomparable
pages, would seal the fate of the counterfeit, and forcibly recall to the mind of Reprint &
Co. the sigh of Othello over his lost occupation. You stare--but it follows, by demonstration--

    "For the intent and purpose of the law,
     Hath full relation to the penalty."

You enter "Napper Tandy" in the "Clerk's Office of the Southern District of New York." The
next number of Blackwood comes out with your first chapter, which Reprint unguardedly produces
in his fac simile. Don't you see, my dear fellow, that if you ever hooked a gudgeon, you have
as certainly caught the republisher? You seize ten thousand copies in his warehouse, just as
they are about to be distributed over the land. On each copy, he must pay, in addition to his
forfeiture, one dollar a sheet; that is to say, ten thousand dollars for your first chapter;
of which, after the government has gone snacks, one thousand guineas are your guarantee for
the interest which the Republic takes in her invited guests; and (to the dismay of piracy,)

    "The law allows it, and the court awards."

Mr Blackwood will doubtless take care that your work shall not be completed too fast: and as
long as the interminable "Napper Tandy" continues, the press of the fac-simile must stand still.
Meanwhile, you commence a legitimate reprint, under the genuine Ebony arms, and reign as a
kind of lord-lieutenant, under his ambrosial majesty, Christopher the Great. The stereotype
plates of Maga reach you every month, and the American public discern the difference between
a true fac-simile and a cunning counterfeit. Instead of the sham tête-de-Buchanan, they see
the very "trick of Coeur-de-lion's face;" and finding themselves as little taxed for the original,
as ever they were for the humbug, vote you a public benefactor, and send a round-robin to Congress
demanding the instantaneous enactment of a universal copyright law, if not the grant of a gold
medal to the beneficent Godfrey. I anticipate, however, your reply. Ten thousand copyrights
would not tempt you to pass more than three months in the year away from your Kentish comforts
and cousins! Very well--then perish dreams of lord-lieutenancy; and learn the inevitable fate
of your neglected literary offspring. The same day that Import and Profits advertise their
London copies of "Napper Tandy," at five dollars a volume, any number of shirtless little vagabonds
will be crying it in a pamphlet edition from Astor House to Wall Street, and through all the
thoroughfares, for a currency shilling. I wish you might see your own degradation, as I shall
be forced to behold that of my friend. Think of an illustrated edition coming out, under the
auspices of Napper Tandy M'Dermot, Esq., in which that namesake of your hero undertakes to
give your biography, and describes you as the occupant of a garret, in the receipt of wages
from government, for manufacturing false representations of characters inestimably dear to
patriots, and odious to tyrants only! Think of that person actually taking out a copyright
for his edition of your own book, on the grounds of his thus doing for your character the very
thing which he reprobates as your detestable trade; and so enjoying for no very "limited time,"
the enormous profits of the "standard American edition" of your outcast work. Permit me to
add, significantly--

    "The fault, dear Godfrey, is not in the laws,
    But in yourself, if you are pirated!"

However, if you seriously ask me whether there is no chance of an alteration in the laws, even
should you persist in refusing the invitation to America, I will candidly answer, that the
progress of civilisation is probably independent even of you, and may very likely win the honours
which would be yours, had you the boldness which fortune delights to favour. If you think me
too sanguine, you can possibly obtain an interview with Mr Dickens, and qualify my representations
by the discouraging views he will give you. They say here, that he came out to America on purpose
to dun brother Jonathan, and it is still spoken of with surprise, that though shrewdly invited
to dinner, he was not deterred from presenting his bill at the table. The slight misunderstanding
to which such a manoeuvre very naturally gave rise, may have seemed to justify his doubts,
as they did to check the good intentions of his entertainers, with regard to the speedy adjustment
of grievances; yet I think I am not mistaken in believing that popular sentiment in this country
is just now setting strongly in favour of a community of copyright between America and Great
Britain.

As a mere question of ethics, it can hardly be expected that while doctors disagree, the popular
conscience should be much disturbed by the flagrancy of the present laws; yet it is only justice
to the tone of moral feeling which characterises what may fairly be called society in America,
to say that it is correct, if not even generous. The leading periodicals, which may be taken
as an index of the opinions of educated men in general, have always been true to principle
in the discussion of this matter. The New York Review, which, during a brief but honourable
career was regarded as speaking the high-toned sentiments of American churchmen, contained
an elaborate article, as early as in 1839, in which the conduct of Congress, reference to the
famous "British Authors' petition," was severely rebuked, and criticised as scandalously unprincipled
and disgraceful. About the same time, under cover of its provincial blue and yellow, the North
American, or, as Mr Cooper calls it, the East American came out in defence of justice as toweringly
as even Maga herself. The "British Authors' petition" had been fiercely opposed by a "Boston
booksellers' memorial," which, among other things addressed to the lowest passions of the mob,
argued against a copyright law, that it would prevent them from altering and interpolating
English books, to accommodate republican tastes! Hear then how the Boston reviewers--who in
spite of that snobbish sectarian air of perkiness and pretension which is usually ascribed
to them, can now and then do things very handsomely--pounce upon their townsmen's morality.
"We cannot help expressing our surprise," say they,[2] "that the strange and dishonourable
ground assumed in that memorial, has not been more pointedly reprobated. We can only account
for the adoption of such a document at all, by a body of respectable men, on the supposition
that its piratical doctrine, respecting literary property, escaped the notice of the convention;
... for in our view, the doctrine to which those respectable gentlemen seemed to give their
public support, was one to be mentioned, not in the company of honest men, but only in the
society of footpads, housebreakers, and pickpockets." In an earlier number of the same work[3]--which
was lashed by the New York Review for its astounding ignorance of the most celebrated letters
of Junius, and for quoting a judicial opinion of Lord Kaimes's as a speech in the House of
Lords--the reviewer, whose blundering intrepidity is only saved from the ridiculous by the
honesty of his attempt, comes down on a nobler quarry, and thwacks the memory of Lord Camden
as if he had been another Thersites. Sir Joseph Yates gets a sound drubbing from the same sturdy
avenger of literary property, for his share in the celebrated case of Millar versus Taylor,
as given in Burrow's Reports.[4] I have been pleased too with the succinct decision of a writer[5]
who has produced an elaborate work on political ethics, in which he lays it down that "the
right of property in a book seems to be clearer and more easily to be deduced from absolute
principle than any other." Except among the most ultra and radical of theorists, I have met
with nothing in American society, but a most hearty subscription to such views as these: but,
alas!--said one in conversation upon this subject,--it is nothing that we think right, nor
would it be much to bring the people to agree with us, unless something shall force it upon
our demagogues.

Public opinion is not always sovereign in America, as the remark of my friend implies. It is
curious to see how often a written constitution deprives a people of the very privileges it
was intended to perpetuate and secure; and how the practical working of the American constitution
is frequently the very reverse of its design. By the constitutional provisions, it would seem
apparent, for instance, that the president of this confederacy must always be the choice of
a majority of the nation's wisest men, themselves the free choice of the majority of the people.
Yet here I have lived under three successive presidents, General Harrison, Mr Tyler, and Mr
Polk, not one of them succeeding by the free choice of any one, and Mr Tyler against the suffrages
of all. The undefiled patriotism which is the hypothesis of the constitution, does not exist;
party, which it seems hardly to anticipate, carries every thing; and parties are ruled by cabals.
Thus the greatest national measures, instead of originating with the people, and taking shape
in the hands of their servants, are begotten in closets and conclaves, dictated to time-servers
and adventurers, and forced on the people, they cannot tell how--but in the name of democracy
and freedom. Yet, after all, public opinion is important, because when even demagogues are
inclined to do right, it is fatal to their action if public opinion be wrong. For this reason,
it may be well for you to understand how far public opinion has advanced with regard to our
question. Its progress has been slow, but I believe always in the right direction. Things promised
well, when the Oregon dispute became the occasion of an unnatural animosity against Great Britain,
and every measure which she was supposed to approve. In the hurly-burly of wind and dust that
was blown up under that passing cloud, it is not to be wondered that Dickens and copyright
were as completely forgotten as orthography, etymology, syntax and prosody, and whatever else
goes to the art of using language correctly. A strip of land that would not purchase the copyright
of an almanac, became the subject of the fiercest congressional interest; and the rights of
authors, and with them the noblest relations of the republic to the other estates of the world,
for the time were wholly lost sight of. "Copyright" then passed into a watchword with some
of those underlings of literature, who thought to ride into favour as Cobden has been carried
into fortune, by taking the tide at its ebb and ("like little wanton boys that swim on bladders")
invoking the flood, as if their yelping and outcries would bring the turn any sooner. A copyright
club was got up, it is said by a mere clique in this city, to which, from the mere justice
of its proposed ends, large numbers of respectable men, throughout the country, gave in their
nominal adhesion. I am not aware that it has accomplished any other result than to favour some
ambitious young gentlemen in acquiring the autographs of eminent persons abroad, with whom
they opened an officious correspondence; for it has been very generally voted a humbug, and
has served to disgust many with the very sound of "copyright," which has thus been degraded
into harmony with the scream of "Repeal" and "Free Trade." For awhile, none joined the vociferation,
according to my informant, but persons whose stake in literary property was about as deep as
the grievances of others in England under the income-tax, or the impost on wheel-carriages,
hair-powder, and coats-of-arms.

From temporary stagnation, however, the question has again revived; and during the last six
months it has been debated in the daily newspapers, with very encouraging tokens of an improvement
in the moral sensibility of journalists. Even the tone of those who oppose the progress of
principle, has become so much modified, that they rather excuse than defend the existing laws,
representing them as practically less grievous than is imagined. A journal which has signalised
itself by its resolute anti-copyright spirit, endeavours to support this representation, by
asserting that about as much is now paid to British authors, for their proof-sheets, as would
ordinarily be paid for their copyrights! It is asserted in this gazette, that Bulwer receives
regularly from one hundred-and-fifty to two hundred guineas for a copy of every novel, which
he sends out in advance of its publication in London. For similar proof-copies of their works,
James is said to command very nearly as much; and such writers as Dr Dick, of Scotland, from
fifty to a hundred guineas. What of it! It is plain that if a single edition of such books
be worth these prices, the copyright must be considerably more valuable; and one would think
it apparent, that such occasional premiums have no more to do with justice, than a levy of
black mail, paid by its victim, because he would fare no worse. The New York Express exposes
the sophistry of its contemporary, by simply asking what is paid to authors of less reputation,
who may possess even superior merit; and The Literary World--a periodical of The Spectator
class,--though it growls a little at Punch, and now and then takes too much in dudgeon the
provocations of Maga, by no means allows its moral optics to be put out, by the pepper occasionally
thrown into them by foreign jesters and critics. Perhaps it should be added, as somewhat significant,
that Mr Bryant, the poet, a prominent democrat and editor of the New York Evening Post, has
exerted himself in behalf of another memorial to Congress for justice to authors; which is
the more observable, because Mr Legget, his late coadjutor and intimate friend, was perhaps
the most radical writer on the other side that has ever appeared in this country, and regarded
the maintenance of his extraordinary opinions as essential to genuine democracy. It seems evident
to me that no one's political creed will be able to exclude much longer a principle, which,
if not instinctively discerned to be sound by every man's conscience, commends itself so much
the more forcibly to him who subjects it to a rigid and thorough examination.

So much for those great manufacturers and exponents of popular opinion, the periodical and
daily press. The influence of "the trade" is next worthy of consideration; and I shall be able
to report as favourably of it. Although the "Boston memorial" was the doing of a convention
of booksellers, who faithfully represented, at that time, the sentiments of their brethren
of the craft, it is now very evident that they are generally ashamed of it, and that another
such convention would be very likely to terminate in precisely the opposite result. The North
American Review[6] some time since announced the conversion of no less important a personage
than the chairman of the committee which emitted the remarkable memorial itself; and the gentleman
is certainly to be congratulated upon the improved condition of his moral health. Perhaps you
saw in The Times--I think it was in May last--the letter of an eminent American publisher,
who not only resented the impeachment of his professional species, as "the Fagins of literature,"
but adroitly retorted the compliment upon divers respectable houses in London. You must have
noticed his declaration, that the commercial house of which he is a member has uniformly exerted
its influence on the side of right. With some qualification, I am happy to say that I believe
the worthy bibliopole claims no more than his due. Theoretically, his house has encouraged
the copyright movement; but I hope I am mistaken in fearing that it has not always exhibited
a practical consistency. The "Proverbial Philosophy" of Mr Martin Farquhar Tupper was lately
published in Philadelphia, with an announcement, by the author himself, that his publisher
had purchased the privilege of its manufacture and sale; and this announcement was accompanied
by an appeal to respectable booksellers to regard the moral right, in the absence of legal
protection. The book has had remarkable success, and more than one publisher, who would be
called respectable, has shown himself too weak to resist even the poor temptation to disregard
this reasonable claim. I am sorry to add, that an advertising sheet is now lying on my table
which describes the "Proverbial Philosophy" of Tupper as part of Messrs Wiley and Putnam's
library of choice reading. Perhaps this internecine piracy among booksellers themselves has
had something to do with the convictions of the craft, that the protection of authors would
be their own best defence and security.

It needs now some resolute friend in Congress, and the copyright measure would not long fail
of success. Unhappily, the gentleman who seemed best fitted for this purpose, and whose former
exertions deserve honourable mention, Mr Senator Preston, of South Carolina, has retired from
his public career, under the depressing influence of disease; and my knowledge of the public
men of America does not enable me to mention any one who will immediately supply his place.
Few men of letters sit in Congress. It is too much the paradise of hack politicians and menials
of party. Great questions of right have little interest in the eyes of such men. Nothing gains
from them a natural patronage, unless it be capable of being manufactured into "political capital."
It is surprising that the Americans endure the selfishness with which their legislators will
devote the greater part of a session of Congress to personal intrigues and private interests,
while great national measures, demanded often by the whole people, are trifled with, or absolutely
neglected. The great matter of "cheap postage," for example, though strongly urged by the mass
of citizens, without distinction of party, can scarcely gain a hearing; and the fate of literary
property must be the same, until some one arises to emulate the examples of Talfourd and Lord
Mahon, and give completeness to their achievements, by carrying a corresponding measure through
the American Congress. Till then, we must leave them to their responsibilities in "extending
the area of freedom," which are, just now, too great to afford them an opportunity of doing
as much for the area of copyright.

Meantime, I may safely say, that public sentiment cannot but mature into an eager desire of
the consummation: not because of its justice, but because of its policy. I should look for
a triumph of principle, rather than of interest, were I not pained to observe how seldom political
leaders in America are wont to address the conscience, and rest any cause upon abstract right.
The fathers of the republic knew better than to leave the moral powers of the people unexercised;
but their successors seem to lack such faculties themselves, or to doubt their existence in
the people. The copyright measure, however, may be safely left to the national sense of expediency.
America is beginning to feel the value of literary eminence, and must be pardoned, on this
account, for absurdly overrating at times the little that she already possesses. You will be
surprised to see in how many ways her literature suffers by her present laws, and how safely
avenging justice may be trusted to repair its own injuries. Let me show you.

The political theorist would say beforehand, that under the proposed copyright law the people
would be deprived of cheap books; and this is one of the popular delusions that experience
must dispel. The present laws do indeed make books very cheap, if cheapness is to be estimated
only by the cost per copy, and if legibility, convenience, durability, and honesty are to go
for nothing: and if the price which a whole nation pays for such books in many serious losses,
is also to be excluded from the calculation. The present laws encourage the rapid manufacture
of such books as will sell rapidly. Novels and light reading of all kinds are thus multiplied,
to the exclusion of more valuable books, which sell slowly; and in consequence, an entire nation
becomes infected with the depraved appetite of mawkish school-girls. But these novels must
be printed at the lowest rate; for being unprotected, some one will bring them out as cheaply
as possible, and he who does so command the market. Thus book-making becomes a mean and debased
art; and books are crowded upon the public, at prices merely nominal; having much the appearance,
and sharing the fate, of newspapers, which perish in the using. At the same time, these worthless
books affect the prices of all books. Valuable works required for libraries must be printed
with the least possible investment of capital, or not printed at all. If any one undertakes
such publications, he must stint the editor, shave the papermaker, grind the printer, starve
the stitchers, and make the binder slight his work. This is the kind of "living" which the
report of Congress says is furnished to thousands of persons by the republishing of English
works; and such it must be, where every publisher has to make books to sell. The books thus
published are dear at any price; and the best works do not get before the public at all. No
choice American editions can be found of Burke, of Gibbon, of Hume, or even of Robertson, the
historian of the continent; but if one imports such an edition, he finds himself taxed at the
Custom-house to pay for the miserable thing he refuses. You look in vain for an edition of
Jeremy Taylor; and if you import that of Bishop Heber, you pay a guinea to the Customs to sustain
the privilege of American publishers to publish it if they choose. The writings of Lord Clarendon
cannot be had in an American edition; your importation is taxed, because at some future day
it may be convenient for some one to get up the whole in one volume. The same is the case with
the whole works of Milton, of Dryden, and many others quite as essential to libraries: but
the case is still more provoking with the better class of modern works, such, for instance,
as Alison's "History of Europe." Under a copyright law, it could be published in New York from
the English plates, and sold almost as cheap as the poor affair now in the market, which cannot
be better, because it would be immediately ruined by a less expensive rival reprint. Yet, if
I import a copy, to save my eyesight, I must pay for refusing this. Thus every time an American
buys a foreign book--and such books are bought by thousands--he is paying for the broad privilege
of booksellers to make the books they import; a privilege which they do not in general care
to use, except in the case of new and chiefly ephemeral works.

Cheap books are now furnished, because the manufacturers dread competition; but better books,
for the same money, will be readily supplied when the publisher has the market to himself,
and fears no competitor. You remember the article on Copyright, which appeared in Blackwood
in January 1842, in which it is noticed that Campbell's "Pleasures of Hope" sells at a shilling;
that Moore, Wordsworth, and Southey, are handsomely published at three shillings and sixpence
a volume; and that such a work as "Hallam's Middle Ages," is as cheap in the London market
as books can be made: yet all these pay their authors, and are published in cheap editions,
because they find it for their interest. Under a community of copyright, the plates of these
very editions would be sent to New York, and the works would be in the market at a slight advance
upon the cost of press-work and paper--the latter item being much less expensive here than
in England.

But the nation pays for its cheap books more dearly still, when you consider the effect of
its present system upon its literary men. It forces this class of its citizens to "make brick
without straw." For the reasons I have shown, the books from which authors collect their materials
are not to be found at home, and can only be imported at an aggravated expense, and often with
great delays and trouble. Think of my waiting ninety days in New York, to procure a work like
"Lord Clarendon's History of the Rebellion!" Now, I hazard nothing in saying that many an American
author has given up projected works of great importance, from the discouragement of similar
delays; whilst proofs are manifold, that the chief defects of valuable works actually produced
in America may be traced to such inconveniences. The patient author often confesses as much
in his preface, without seeming to know that his country, in stimulating the almost exclusive,
publication of trash, and taxing him to support such publications, is the fostering patron
to which he owes his difficulties. Thus does America nip her young genius in the bud; and when
it perchance comes to flower and fruit, she is not behind-hand with a blight. The unknown production
of the American author is brought into a depressing competition with works which have been
tried in England, and found certain of success in America. The popular British author, whom
the public have long demanded, is furnished at the lowest price--while the yet unheard-of native
aspirant, who can only hope for a limited patronage, an cannot dispense with his copyright,
must of course be paid more. Whilst all the poems of Mr Tennyson, or his betters, maybe had
for a dollar, the maiden effort of an American youth cannot be furnished for much less. Of
course, his country has crushed her child, under the weight of an unnatural disadvantage; and
in proportion as he is worth any thing, the chances are less that he will persevere against
such odds. I know of a man of sterling genius, whose early writings attracted the notice of
Maga, who has long since ceased to write for the public, in consequence of the evils I now
depict. His country may thank herself that he has not taken rank with the first English authors
of his class. But the same system which thus deprives American authors of natural patronage,
destroys their chances abroad. Until their own country relieves them, by putting foreign works
on a level with theirs as to chance of success, England gives them no copyright, and they cannot
get aid from her as heretofore. Cooper and Irving were encouraged by England under a different
state of things; and it is safe to say, that under present circumstances there will be no more
Irvings and Coopers. I am surprised that American scholars submit with such equanimity to grievances
under which genius must languish and emulation dies.

I have now in my mind the case of a man of learning--whom I should rejoice to name--of whom
this country might well be proud, but whom she hardly knows; a man, of whom I venture to say,
that had he been born an Englishman, he would have bequeathed his country another immortal
name. He would have done as much to ennoble his native land, had she known how to foster instead
of depressing his early enthusiasm. With a mind fitted for the deepest and most accurate research,
and an education, of which the perfection is attributable to his natural love of learning,
he undertook, in the prime of life, to accomplish a certain literary work, still a desideratum.
With untiring zeal and diligence under many discouragements, he devoted to his grand design
the best years of his manhood. In the collection of materials--doubly difficult by reason of
the evils of which I have spoken--he spent much time, and exhausted his patrimony. After gathering
a noble store, and traversing the ocean to perfect his acquirements in foreign libraries, he
at length completed his task, and laid before competent judges the results. These were pronounced
of the richest intrinsic value, and the earnest of future works in the same department of letters,
yet more honourable to their author and more important to learning. But the very devotedness
with which my admirable friend has pursued his one great object, has deprived him of a popular
reputation. Though by birth and habits of life a gentleman, refined by intercourse with the
choice society of Europe, and furnished with the best introductions, his overtures to publishers
here were repulsed with a rudeness of negative, which would have shocked the sensibilities
of a footman. Who cared for him, with his parcel of manuscript, when some European work, which
had gone through the experiment of success, could be produced with a smaller expenditure, and
without per centage to the author! Can it be wondered at that Harpy & Co. refused to treat
with him, when a new treatise on the inside of the moon, for which lunatics in general were
gaping, and for which twenty guineas had actually been paid to the learned Dr Snooks, of North
Britain, was actually waiting its turn for immediate reproduction? Would Snatchett and Brothers
cast an eye on their compatriot's scrawled and blotted quires, when they had just run the pen-knife
through a new "Dombey," for which fifty compositors waited stick-in-hand, and which the million
expected with insatiable greediness? The excellent person to whom I refer ran the gauntlet
of such patrons with no better success than my questions imply; and if the dignified production
to which I have referred shall ever see the light, I am informed that it will first issue from
the English press; for should its author publish it here, at his own expense, he will be forced
to put it at a price which, compared with the pirated works of British authors, will appear
unreasonable, and kill it in the birth. No American is patriot enough to buy a book, simply
because it is valuable, and the product of national genius: and Congress takes care that if
any be found to do so, they shall be roundly taxed for their patriotism.

I have given this instance because it has come under my immediate notice; but you will not
doubt, dear Godfrey, that the country which, even in existing circumstances, has bred such
writers, in their several departments, as Prescott, and Audubon, and Wheaton, and Kent, and
Story, has crushed at least as many more by the pressure of her copyright laws: and, if so,
America has deprived herself of intellectual sons, whose gifts, in their stimulated exercise,
would have made her rich, as well as illustrious in the sure sequel of their fame. The "Calamities
of Authors" are indeed proverbial, but few are the unnatural mothers who, to prevent them,
destroy genius in the embryo. Yet there is an ingenuity of mischief in this government, from
which every thing that can be of benefit to letters, is sure to suffer. Even the poor permission
to import books duty free, which has heretofore been enjoyed by the few public libraries that
are struggling into existence from private liberality, was, by the tariff of 1846, peremptorily
withdrawn; whether through a niggard parsimony, or a besotted indifference to learning, more
worthy of Caliph Omar than of an enlightened state, it is difficult to conjecture.

If things continue as they are, one thing is certain--it will be long before America will have
a literature. Nor am I disposed to sneer, when I think of it, at the alarm of the New York
Gazette, which is afraid lest the Tories of Maga should gain a preponderating influence in
the minds of educated American youth. Why is it absurd to suppose that, if given up to such
teachers, the next generation of educated Americans will be less democratic? In republican
countries, the studiosi novarum rerum are always the well-bred and the travelled. Wealth and
foreign associations must produce, in a nation, the same effects that fortune and admission
to society create in a family. A love of simplicity and of home give place to a sense of the
importance of fashion, and the value of whatever is valued by the world at large. Give us a
king that we may be like other nations, was not an outcry peculiar to antiquity and to the
Hebrews. In like circumstances, 'tis the language of man's heart. It is an appetite to which
all nations come at last. Cincinnatus and his farmer's frock may do at the beginning; but the
end must be Cæsar and the purple. Republics breed in quick succession their Catilines and their
Octavius. They run to seed in empire, and so fructify into kingdoms--the staple form of nations.
The instinctive yearning for the first change is sure to be developed as soon as the exhilaration
of conquest makes evident the importance of concentrated strength, and imperial splendour.
If so, the hour that will try the stability of this republic cannot be distant. Already I have
heard Americans complaining of the thanklessness of bleeding for such a government as theirs;
and remarking, that under an empire, the army would return from Mexico with Field-Marshal the
Earl of Buena Vista, and Generals Lord Viscount Vera-Cruz, Lord Worth of Monterey; Sir John
Wool, Bart, and Sir Peter Twiggs, Knight; and that the other officers would have as many decorations
on their breasts as feathers in their caps! The truth is, that for lack of such baubles, they
will all take their turns as Presidents of the United States. But I cannot say that honest
democrats are altogether to be laughed at, for rightly estimating the effects of a literature
exclusively foreign, and generally adverse to the manners and institutions of a people whose
strength is to "dwell alone, and not to be numbered among the nations."

If you are meditating an article for Maga on American copyright, you may employ my information
for the purpose; but it will not be fair to leave out of view the most efficient objections
which are urged by anti-copyright politicians, two of which I have not as yet mentioned. It
is said to be against American interests to grant copyright, because the American value of
British copyrights will far exceed the British value of American copyrights. Whether this be
true or not, the argument is worth nothing, unless it be followed by the conclusion--therefore
it is expedient to steal. Yet, perhaps, if the experiment were tried, the assertion would not
prove to be true. The most valuable American copyrights are those of children's schoolbooks,
in which extraordinary ingenuity has been shown, and which are generally such as, with small
emendations, would become very popular in England. But however it may be at present--since
the present standard literature of England can never be copyrighted, who can doubt that, with
a more liberal system, the land of Washington Irving would breed such popular authors, as would
soon very nearly equalize the exchanges, while America would still be immensely the gainer
in the increase of her celebrated men, commanding no longer a merely provincial reputation,
but taking rank in the broad world, and ensuring foreign rewards, with universal renown. At
all events--honesty is always policy. Rising to the great standard of right, this country would
soon find her reward; if but in that wealth of self-respect which comes only with a conscience
void of offence, and which no country can possess that is not nationally great and generous,
or at least honest enough to pay for what it needs, and appropriates, and enjoys.

The only remaining objection which need be mentioned has been very operative with the vulgar,
for whom alone it could have been intended. It is said that England, however nearly allied,
is still a foreign country; that her writers write for their own countrymen; that, so far as
they are concerned, America is a mere accident; and that, consequently, right has nothing to
do with the case. It is conceded that the comity of nations may furnish grounds for a fair
consideration of what is policy; but it is denied that moral obligation invests the British
author with any claim to literary property in America. I must let you know how handsomely the
answer has been put by Americans themselves. The Boston reviewers say,[7]--"It is true we are
distinct nations--scarcely more so, however, than the different Italian states. We have, like
them, a community of language, and although an ocean rolls between us, the improvements in
navigation have brought us nearer to each other, for all practical purposes, than is the case
with some of the nations of Italy. Yet such is the indifference of our government to the interests
of a national literature, that our authors are still open to the depredations of foreign pirates;
and what is not less disgraceful, the British author, from whose stores of wisdom and wit we
are nourished, is turned over, in like manner, to the tender mercies of our gentlemen of trade,
for their own exclusive benefit, and with perfect indifference to his equitable claims." The
New York Review[8] strongly reprobates the same outrages, "especially between two nations descended
from a common stock, speaking the same language, whose political and civil institutions, though
differing in form, are essentially the same in their liberal spirit and free principles--between
two nations who are ONE PEOPLE." This is a sentiment which even you, my dear Tory, will not
be unwilling to reciprocate; and I'll tell you when I felt its truth with peculiar force. I
was walking in a quiet part of this city the other day, when I saw at a little distance a mutilated
statue of marble, representing some one of senatorial dignity in a Roman toga. As I drew near
I discovered an inscription at its foot, which informed me that it was a grateful tribute,
erected by the people of the province of New York in 1775, to WILLIAM PITT. During the revolution
which immediately followed, it had been lost, and was only dug up this year from the dirt and
rubbish of an obscure part of this great metropolis. It comes again to light, to remind America
that, when she reckons up the earliest champions of her rights, she must never forget how much
she owes to that noble British statesman. It thrilled me to stand before that silent witness
of a brotherhood which revolutions cannot change. That England and America are twain is politically
for the benefit of each; that they are one flesh is the unalterable fact which perfects the
prosperity of both. The reality of their union, which that marble attests, is as fixed as the
immoveable past; and I felt it enough that each people can boast,--

    "That CHATHAM'S language is their mother tongue."

How good it is, then, to strengthen the bond by which Almighty God has made two households
still one family, especially when so many ties of mutual interests, commerce, and literature
work together to corroborate the operation of nature! This is what the orator called so beautifully
"the chords of a man;" and when America has well digested a principle thus laid down for her
sake in the Parliament of England, she will feel that her political right to refuse just protection
to the British author will be a moral right only when she is able to forego the advantages
of literary communion and fellowship with the British empire.

This matter of copyright has been so naturally debated as concerning the Anglo-Saxon race alone,
that I too have written as if the same principles (though with less glaring necessity) did
not extend to all nations and languages of the earth. But I, for one, shall not be content
with less than their universal application. Happy, indeed, will be the day when a British author
puts pen to paper, feeling that he addresses himself at once to--what is almost equivalent
to posterity--twenty millions of men in another hemisphere, and extending from the Gulf of
Mexico to the mouths of the St Lawrence, among whom the author's is a sacred name, and when
the aspiring American youth can thank his Government for making him proprietor of his literary
creations wherever the law of England prevails upon the surface of the round world. But there
are interests in which all men are brethren, and in which their brotherhood should be mutually
and heartily conceded. Next to our holy religion is that interest which belongs to the interchange
of ideas and a knowledge of each other's humanities. Best of all will be the time, then, when
the literature of all Christian nations acquires an essential unity, not by spoliation and
wrong, but by mutual good offices; promoting the fraternization of contemporary literatures,
and holding together that precious wealth bequeathed to the world by the bountiful and often
suffering genius of bygone generations.

Forgive me, dear Godfrey, that my letter, which began with a song, should thus conclude with
a sermon. It is a very long letter, and I wish I could advise you to defer the reading of it
till our friend the Vicar comes again to dine at the Hall. I would get you to read the first
half to him, and ask him to declaim the remainder to you; but I know you would fall into your
inveterate failing of shutting your eyes to meditate, and going into a sound sleep at the most
interesting point of the discourse. Yours, &c.

    To Godfrey Godfrey, Esq., &c. &c. &c.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] N. A. Review, vol. lvi. p. 227.

[3] N. A. Review, vol. xlviii. p. 257.

[4] Vol. iv. 2354.

[5] Lieber's Political Ethics, vol. i. p. 132.

[6] Vol. lvi., p. 227.

[7] North American Review, vol. liv., p. 355.

[8] Vol. iv., p. 300.

[9] Speech on Conciliation with America.

EVENINGS AT SEA.--NO. II.

Our next narrator was a retired officer of the army, who had become a settler in South America,
after many years unprofitable service at home and abroad. He had rapidly advanced in worldly
wealth in the country of his adoption, but memory seemed ever to do him a kindness, when it
bore him back to the days when he first entered on life's journey; his sword, and a hopeful
heart, his sole possessions. When the subjects of our discourse chanced to awaken any of these
recollections, he would usually hold forth with such an energy of prosiness, that we were fain
to submit with as good a grace as possible, where there was no escape, and endeavour to interest
ourselves in the adventures he had met with, and the fates and fortunes of the companions of
his youth. The story I give here, was one he told us of a young officer, who had served in
the regiment with him.

HENRY MEYNELL.

In the Gazette, dated "War Office, 14th June, 1828," was contained the following announcement:--"Henry
Wardlaw Meynell, gentleman, to be ensign"--the regiment does not matter, but its mess-room
was honoured by the presence of the above-named military aspirant one day, about two months
after the date of his commission. He was introduced to his brother officers, examined by them
from head to foot, shown into a bare uncomfortable garret--of which he was installed proprietor,
allotted a tough old grenadier as his valet-de-chambre, and then left to his own devices till
dinner-time.

While the iron-fingered veteran was extracting the smart new uniform from the travelling chest,
and arranging it on the oak table, under the directing eye of his master, the officers in the
mess-room were forming their opinions of the appearance of the newcomer, with the balmy assistance,
in this mental effort, of strong military cigars. His age was nearly twenty-one years, and
he looked perhaps older. His figure was tall, slight, and graceful, more formed than is usual
in early youth, and bespeaking strength and activity. His face was almost beautiful in feature
and form when silent, but as he spoke, a certain thinness of the lips betrayed itself, and
somewhat marred its singular attractiveness. Dark brown hair, high clear forehead, teeth perfect,
in regularity and whiteness, oval outline, head and neck shapely, and well set on--in short
altogether such a person as one rarely sees, either in a regiment, or elsewhere.

As the "who is he?" is always a most important point of English introduction, and I would fain
hope that you may take some interest in this person as we proceed, you should be told, that
he is the second son of the only brother of a bachelor squire of very large estate in Yorkshire;
his father, a profligate and spendthrift living at Boulogne, while he and his brother are adopted
by the uncle. His poor broken-hearted mother has slept sweetly for many years near the village
church where she was wed.

Eton received him when very young; he there lost his Yorkshire manners, learnt to row and swim,
and acquired a certain precocious knowledge of the world, and proficiency in tying a white
neckcloth. The labours of the classics and science were alike distasteful to him; study of
any kind he abhorred; yet so acquisitive was his intellect, retentive his memory, and powerful
his ability, that when he left Eton at eighteen, few youths presented a more showy surface
of information. He had had one or two narrow escapes from expulsion for offences, in which
the vices of maturer years were mixed up with boyish turbulence; but a certain element of depth
and caution, even in these outbreaks, saved him from incurring their usual penalties. He was
admirable in all active exercises, had a magnificent voice, and singular taste and talent for
music and painting. As a social companion, he was brilliant when he thought fit to exert himself;
at other times he was silent and rather thoughtful, perhaps too thoughtful for his years. Though
he always lived with the most dissipated and uproarious set, in his vices there was a degree
of refinement, less of the brute, more of the devil; he did not err from impulse, but when
opportunity presented itself, he considered whether the pleasure were worth the sinning, and
if he thought it was, he sinned. He was more admired than liked among his young companions;
and those in authority over him were quite uncertain whether he would turn out a hero or a villain.

From Eton he went to Oxford, there took to dissipation and extravagance, neglected all rules
and application, wore out the patience of the authorities, and the liberality of his uncle,
and, after about a year's trial, was withdrawn from the University to save him from retiring
by compulsion. He was then sent to travel for a year under the prudent care of his elder brother.
It will be unnecessary to track them through their wanderings; suffice it to say, that they
did what young gentlemen travelling usually do, and visited the places that every body visits,
but with this difference, with regard to Henry Meynell, that he acquired the principal European
languages as he went along, and travelled with his eyes open; what was gained with great labour
by others seemed to be as a gift to him. He had also begun to consider that he might at last
provoke his uncle too much, and injure his prospects; so that he conducted himself with caution
and tolerable steadiness during his time of travel. To finish this apparent reformation, a
commission was obtained for him in an infantry regiment under a martinet colonel, and a moderate
allowance provided for his support. Having given this sketch of his appearance, family, character,
and antecedents, he is now fairly entitled to take his seat at the mess-table.

His corps was what the young warriors of the present day, call "rather slow," it had, indeed,
been very much distinguished in the Peninsula, but since then a severe course of Jamaica and
Demerara had excluded from it all wealthy and aristocratic elements; and the tablets it left
behind in the West Indies were only raised to the memory of Smiths and Joneses, whose respective
vacancies had since been filled up with Joneses and Smiths. In those days the rotation system
had not been yet adopted, and the young gentlemen in "crack regiments," only knew of yellow
fevers and land-crabs, through reading of them in books; and even through that channel, it
would, perhaps, be unsafe to assert that they were much informed on these subjects, or indeed
on any other.

At the head of the mess-table sat a gray-headed captain, who had been frost-bitten in Canada,
wounded in the Peninsula, and saved by an iron constitution from the regimental doctor and
yellow fever on Brimstone Hill, St Kitts; and, despite his varied adventures and ailments,
had contrived to accumulate an immense rotundity in his person, and quantity and vividness
of colour in his countenance. At the foot, was a tall young gentleman, with high cheekbones
and a Celtic nose, who had lately joined from Tipperary. The colonel sat in the centre of one
side of the table, stiff in attitude, sententious in discourse, invulnerable in vanity; a fierce-looking
navy captain, and the meek mayor of the town, supported him to the right and left. A few diners
out, fathers of families, and men who played a good game of billiards, and preferred the society
of ensigns, were the remainder of the guests; the other gentlemen in red were variations on
the fat captain and the Tipperary lieutenant.

The mess-room was long and narrow, with a profusion of small windows on both sides, causing
the light to fall on every one's face. There were two doors at each end of the room, and one
at the side, which last, as it led nowhere, and made a draught like a blow-pipe, had been lately
stopped up with a different coloured plaster from the rest of the wall. But indeed there was
such a curious variety of draughts, that one was scarcely missed; every door and window in
the room sent in its current of air, to search under the table, flare the candles, bear in
in triumph the smell of burnt fat from the kitchen, and poke into the tender places of rheumatic
patients; while, in spite of all these, the room was so close and redolent of dinner, that
fish, flesh, and fowl were breathed in every breath. A scant and well-worn carpet covered the
space on which the dinner-table stood; and portable curtains of insufficient number and enormous
size ornamented a few favoured windows, waved in the erratic draughts, and tripped up incautious
attendants, diffusing all the while the stale odour of tobacco smoke through the other varied
smells. At one end of the room was a round table with a faded red cloth, strewn with newspapers,
the corners of which had generally been abstracted for the purpose of lighting cigars,--the
"Army List," the king's regulations, and the Racing Calendar. At the other end, a large screen,
battered at the edges from frequent packings, diverted the course of the kitchen steam which
entered by the door next it; this piece of furniture was covered with prints, some caricatures
of other days, some sporting sketches--breaking cover--the Derby--fast coaches--the ring, &c.--some
opera beauties, on whom sportive and original ensigns had depicted enormous moustaches, and
others of rather an equivocal description.

At a given signal, the covers were removed, and some dozen of iron-heeled soldiers, dressed
in various liveries, commenced scattering the soup and fish about with the same reckless indifference
to consequences with which they would have stormed a breach. While Meynell was gradually coughing
himself into a recovery from the effects of some fiercely peppered mulligatawney, he was asked
by the stiff colonel to take wine, when the fat captain, and all the others at brief intervals
followed the example. For some time, there was steady attention paid to eating and drinking,
and but few words spoken, beyond "mutton if you please--thank you--rather under done--glass
of sherry--with pleasure--your health--I'll trouble you for a wing, &c." But as the dinner
progressed, and the fiery wine began to tell, horses and dogs, wine and women, guards and grievances,
promotion and patronage, began to exert their influence on the discourse, and by the time the
cloth was removed, every one seemed to talk louder than his neighbour, and the din was almost
insupportable. Then, through the roar of the many voices, was heard an ominous shuffling behind
the screen, now extended all across the room; an attuning scream of the clarionet, moan of
the violin, and grunt of the bassoon, faintly foretold the coming storm, which in a few seconds
burst upon the ears in the most furious form of the "overture to Zampa" by the regimental band;
this continued, with variations, but scarcely a lull, for a couple of hours.

Meanwhile the bottles pass freely round, and the roar of voices continues louder and thicker
than ever; some of the younger officers, mere boys, have yielded to their potent draughts,
and sought their rooms; others, maddened with the wine and din, shout snatches of songs, argue
vociferously, and loudly offer absurd bets, which the sporting gentlemen, who are strong in
billiards, note down in little pocket-books. The band retires, whist tables are laid, brandy
and water and cigars make their appearance, and the mess-room is soon in a cloud. After a couple
of rubbers of whist, the colonel, and most of the older officers and guests, retire. As the
door closes behind them, a flushed youth with swimming eyes and uncertain step, rushes to the
table and shouts, "Now we'll make a night of it,--the bones! the bones!" Dice are soon brought,
and the work of mischief begins. "Don't you play, Meynell?" said the flushed youth. "Not to-night,
thank you," was the answer. Not to-night--for to-night he is cautiously feeling his way,--the
scene's new to him,--he does not yet find himself at home, or on his strong point. He sits
quietly down on the well-worn sofa and looks on; his head, in spite of the fiery wine and distracting
band, is quite cool; he has watched himself and drunk but sparingly, and now he watches others.

The players are seated at the round table, with eager faces and straining eyes watching the
chances of the game. One of the guests is among them, a man with black moustaches and rather
foreign appearance, a billiard-room acquaintance of the flushed youth; a capital fellow, they
said, up to every thing, and very amusing. It was unlucky, however, for the cause of conviviality,
that he was rather indisposed that day, and could take very little wine. But fortune now seemed
to make amends to him for this deprivation, for he won at almost every throw. The flushed youth
curses his luck, but doubles his stakes till he has lost a heavy sum. Meynell's quick eye observed
that the foreign-looking gentleman lowered his hand under the table before each of these very
successful throws. "You had better change the game," said he coolly to the loser, "luck is
against you." The youth dashed the dice on the floor, seized the cards, and challenged the
party to "vingt-et-un;" as he had been the heaviest loser, the others agreed, and the cards
were dealt rapidly around.

It is by this time well on towards the dawn, the gray light already shows the shadowy outline
of the distant hills, the dewy morning air breathes softly in through the open windows, on
the parched lips and fevered brows of the gamblers; but it is an unheeded warning. Stake after
stake is lost, some light, others heavy, all, perhaps, more than can be spared; but the worst
loser is losing still. The loss is very great, ruinous indeed; the pale man with the black
moustaches has the same strange luck as ever; he says he quite wonders at it himself. He is
dealer, and turns up a "vingt-et-un" almost every time. Now the flushed youth flushes deeper,
his teeth are set--his eyes fixed on the table--an enormous sum is risked upon this chance,
he has drawn winning cards, but the dealer may have a "vingt-et-un," and beat him still. The
foreigner's hand is pressed on the table, outspread close to his cards. All this time Meynell
had keenly watched the play; he had risen from the sofa noiselessly, taken a large carving-fork
from the supper table, and, unobserved by any of the excited players, stood behind the dealer's
chair; his thin lips firmly compressed, and the fork grasped in his right hand, he leant over
the table. This was at the point of the game when the decisive card was to be turned. Quick
as thought, Meynell drives down the heavy fork through the dealer's hand, nailing it to the
table--there is an ace underneath it; writhing with pain and shame, the unmasked cheat is hunted
from the house.

Meynell at once became the leading man of the regiment; petted by the colonel on account of
his aristocratic connexions, admired by the older officers for his knowledge of the world,
and looked up to by the younger as the most daring in adventure, the most reckless in dissipation
and expense. He repaid himself for the moderation of the first night at mess, when he was feeling
his ground, by constant self-indulgence when he knew his power,--while the influence of his
popularity and extraordinary social gifts, drew most of the youths, already, perhaps, too much
disposed for such pleasures, to follow his example. The regiment had been rather dissipated
before, but Meynell's presence in it was oil to the flame; drinking, waste, and gambling, became
general, ruining the circumstances and constitution of many, and injuriously affecting the
morals of all. Scarcely a year had passed after this time, when several mere boys, who had
entered this fatal corps with fair prospects and uncorrupted minds, were sent back to their
unhappy parents with blasted characters and broken fortunes. In these sad catastrophes Meynell
found a secret pleasure, strange as it was diabolical. Though he used all his address to gain
followers and companions in his career, there was something flattering to his malignant pride
when any one broke down in the attempt to keep pace with him. Sometimes after deep play, in
which he was rarely a loser, he would confer apparent kindnesses on the sufferers, forgive
them their liabilities, and render them pecuniary assistance; but such help only postponed
for a season the ruin that was almost sure to follow his fatal patronage, while his seeming
generosity increased his influence, and silenced those who might have spoken against him. In
equipage, appearance, and manners, he was the ornament of the regiment, and considered by those
authorities who did not inquire into morals, as a most promising young officer of high character
and attainments.

I shall not weary you with any details of the next five years of his military life, of his
peace campaigns, and marches from one town to another. But his track was marked with mischief
wherever he went. He had several times, from his expensive mode of living, been obliged to
appeal to his uncle for assistance, which was always rendered, accompanied, of course, by long
and ineffectual lectures on the necessity of reformation. But the old man was flattered at
his nephew's popularity, and pleased with his varied powers and accomplishments; by plausible
representations, too, he was convinced that the irregularities which occasionally reached even
his ears, were but the exuberance of youth, and the effervescence of a high spirit. Latterly,
however, when the applications for money became more frequent, and the rumours of his dissipated
life more numerous and authentic, the Squire, after having discharged all existing debts, communicated
his determination to limit his nephew strictly within the allowance for the future, and to
refuse to meet any further liabilities.

Cautious, cool-headed, and able as Meynell was, he was wanting in that self-command necessary
to alter his mode of life; his expensive habits and vices had, through long indulgence, become
almost necessaries of existence. With his eyes fully open to his danger, he still kept on in
the dark path that led to the ruin to which he had ruthlessly consigned many an other, supported
the while by a vague hope that some lucky chance would turn up to carry him through his difficulties.
Tradesmen became pressing with their accounts,--he drew bills on his agent, renewed these when
they became due, and drew others. This could not last long; the value of his commission was
soon mortgaged; he borrowed money of advertising bill-discounters at enormous interest, and,
in short, by the summer of 1834, Henry Meynell was a ruined man.

At this period he had just marched with his regiment into a large seaport town in the south
of England, where they were to be quartered for some time. About two miles inland from this
town there is a small country place of singular beauty. The house stands on the brow of a green
hill, the front looking over a magnificent neighbouring park, varied with grove, and lake,
and rivulet. At the back is a trimly kept garden of tufts of flowers, like enormous bouquets
thrown on the green velvet sward, with here and there a sombre cypress or cedar in pleasant
contrast. A succession of small terraces, with steep grassy steps, leads down to a rapid brook
that forms a little waterfall below. Half an arch of a bridge, ruined, no one knows how, many
years ago, now covered with thick clustering ivy, projects over the stream. Beyond, lie rich
undulating pastoral lands, where cattle and sheep are grazing peacefully; on either side of
the garden thick woods of beech and sycamore reach from the brook up to the house, shutting
in this lonely spot with their dark green wall. The dwelling was originally Elizabethan, but
had been so often added to or diminished, that it would be hard to say now what it is; but
somehow the confusion of gables and excrescences have altogether a very picturesque effect,
and luxuriant clematis and ivy conceal the architectural irregularities, or at least divert
the eye from their observation. At the entrance to the house from the garden there is a porch,
up a short flight of gray stone steps; its sides are of trellis-work, covered with flowering
creepers.

One sunny afternoon towards the end of June, in the year mentioned above, a fresh breeze rustled
through the leaves, shook the rich clusters of fragrant roses that hung about the porch, and
fanned the cheek of a young girl standing on the steps, who looked as fair and innocent as
the flowers themselves. She was her mother's only child, and had seen but eighteen years. Her
father had been a gallant sailor, knighted for his conduct in one action, and slain in the
next. Her mother, Lady Waring, was thus left widowed while yet young; but her loved husband's
memory, and the care of her little daughter Kate, proved enough of earthly interests for her,
and she remained single ever afterwards. Sir William Waring had possessed a considerable share,
as sleeping partner, in an old-established banking-house that bore the name of his family,
as well as the residence I have tried to describe, so that his widow and child were left in
very affluent circumstances. He was a first cousin of old Mr Meynell, the Yorkshire squire.

Lady Waring was seated on a rustic bench in the garden with a book in her hand, but her eye
fixed with fond admiration on her daughter. The fair girl stood on the steps in the porch as
on a pedestal surrounded with a frame-work of flowers. A straw hat, with a wide leaf, was placed
coquettishly on one side of her head, and from its shade an abundance of black glossy ringlets
fell over the sunshine of her face. She had never known a moment's sickness or sorrow; her
eye had never met a frown; her ears never heard a chiding. She seemed almost radiant with health
and happiness--her joyous smile the overflow of her glad heart.

Lady Waring beckoned her over, and as she moved to obey the summons, the shadow of her graceful
sinuous figure scarcely appeared to touch the sward more lightly than herself. Kate sat down
beside her mother, put an arm round her, and looked up joyfully into her face. It was one of
those peculiar English days, when the sun shines with a fierce heat, but the east wind is sharp
and cold, and the air ungenial where the rays do not reach. At the moment when Kate joined
her mother, a thick cloud passed above their heads, throwing a heavy shade over them, while
a breeze sweeping up from the brook cast a sudden chill. With an involuntary shudder they pressed
for a moment closer together. At the same time a servant ushered a tall, strange gentleman
into the garden, "Mr Henry Meynell," he announced, and then withdrew.

The kinsman received a cordial greeting, and, of course, an invitation to remain that day,
which was accepted. The charm of his manner and conversation was irresistible when he strove
to please: he strove his utmost that night, and fully succeeded--mother and daughter were alike
won by him. When he rode away from the door at a late hour, Lady Waring was eloquent in his
praise. Kate's eloquence was silence, but it spake quite as much, and that night she did not
sleep so tranquilly as was her wont.

As Henry Meynell galloped home over the lonely road, the bland and winning smile which had
played over his face all the evening contracted into a moody and sinister expression. The thin
lips became compressed, and his arched brows extended into a hard dark line over his eyes.
He was planning evil, and had no witness; at such times his features seemed to take this peculiar
appearance as their natural cast; yet it was scarcely possible to believe that one, before
so handsome, could suddenly become repulsive and painful to behold. His self-indulgent and
dissipated life had already marked him with some of the symptoms of premature decay. Though
still in early manhood, a slight wrinkle or two was perceptible; his cheek was pale when not
flushed with excitement; and his eye, betimes glassy and bloodshot, would betray the excesses
of the previous night. But still, with the assistance of a judicious toilet, he could make
his appearance present a very respectable degree of youthfulness; and this had been an occasion
where no pains were spared to create a favourable impression. He had an object in view. In
the desperate state of his finances, an advantageous marriage suggested itself to him as the
easiest and readiest mode of extricating himself from his difficulties, and continuing his
career of self-indulgence. His regiment having been ordered into the neighbourhood of his wealthy
cousin appeared an opportunity too favourable to be neglected, so he had not lost a day in
making her acquaintance. He hated the prospect of marriage as an inconvenience, but mocked
at the idea of its being a restraint. The fair girl he had marked for his own rather pleased
him; he liked her beauty, and was amused at her trusting innocence. He probably would have
made love to her for pastime even had she not been rich. As it was, the sacrifice to his necessities
which he intended to make was somewhat mitigated in its severity. "I must have her money, so
I am in for the stupid folly of virtuous love-making and marriage," was the sum of his thoughts
as he dismounted at his stable-door. His spaniel had been watching for his return, and ran
out, barking joyously, and leaping upon him. He was irritated at being thus disturbed in his
calculating reverie, and struck the faithful brute with his heavy whip, driving it yelping
away. "Go, stupid cur, you plague me with your fondness," cried he, as he struck at the dog
again. Alas for the fair girl who filled this bad man's thoughts, and who thought but of him
that night! down in his cold heart she may not find one solitary gem of tenderness or love
to light her with its ray to hope and happiness.

Henry Meynell's visits to the Warings became very frequent, and at length daily occurrences.
These simple-minded people, who had lived so long secluded from the world, had little opportunity
of hearing the unfavourable rumours of their guest's character, which were pretty generally
abroad; and if now and then a suspicion was suggested to the elder lady, the tact and plausibility
with which it was discovered and removed, rather tended to strengthen than weaken his position
in her esteem. As for Kate, the advice and cautions of meddling friends of course only fixed
her more firmly in her preference.

About six weeks thus passed away. He had played his game coolly and steadily; his attentions
were evident, but they were yet so mixed up with respectful regard to Lady Waring and apparent
interest in her conversation, that the good lady had been more accustomed to look upon him
as the kinsman and friend of the family than as the suitor of her child. So gradual had been
his advances, that one, day, when she found her daughter depressed and weeping, and at length
guessed that Meynell's temporary absence was the cause, the state of affairs flashed upon her
with the suddenness of a surprise. When enlightened, she wondered with reason at her dulness
in not having before discovered a matter of such surpassing interest. "Why should I have any
secret from you, mother?" said Kate; "it is true I love him, and dearly, and I am sure he loves
me too, though he has never told me so. I wonder why he has not come to-day; he promised to
bring me the song he sang to us last night on the broken bridge." Nevertheless, Meynell came
not that day; and it was getting late in the evening when Kate's quick ear recognised the sound
of his horse's feet on the approach--the sweetest music she could hear.

She was alone in the house when he entered, her mother being in the garden on the favourite
rustic seat. After the usual greetings, and some hurried apologies for his late arrival on
the ground of business or duty, they walked out together to where Lady Waring sat. Her mind
was on them as they drew near; she had thought of them for hours in anxious consultation within
herself. She reflected on the lonely condition of her child in case of her death; the apparent
attachment of the young people to each other; the amiable manners and brilliant accomplishments
of her kinsman; and her own affluence, which would enable her to make amends for the want of
fortune on his part. When she looked on the manly and graceful soldier bending to her daughter's
ear, and saw the pale cheek of the fair girl become red, and the face, lately sad and tearful,
now beaming with happiness and content, she thought she had found a fitting protector for her
child, and that to him it should be given to love her, comfort her, honour and keep her, in
sickness and in health.

The mother held out a hand to each as they joined her, and welcomed Henry Meynell with peculiar
kindness of manner; then, as they strolled down the terrace to the brook side, followed them
with loving eyes, suffused and dim with tears of pleasure.

I would fain dwell upon this happy meeting and lengthen it to the utmost. Why do the shadows
fall so quickly? Why does dark night chase away this gentle twilight, and the murmur of the
brook grow loud and hoarse, as all other sounds are sinking into silence? The winged hours
have flown rapidly away; the fair girl still wanders by the water's edge, or leans over the
parapet of the broken bridge. Through the stillness of the evening air a voice has fallen softly
on her ear that fills her heart with happiness. Joy! joy! his love is spoken; his manly troth
is plighted. And she, too, in a few broken words of maiden modesty but deep affection, has
pledged away her faith, wealth, youth, and beauty. Then the fond mother comes to seek her child;
she needs no tongue to tell her what has passed, for that fair young face is radiant with happiness,
bright and pure as a star in heaven; and Henry Meynell's glance is full of fond and silent
admiration. She bestows an approving blessing. But while the group stands, as it would seem,
lost to all consciousness of the world beyond, the night has fallen dark and sombre, and louder
and hoarser than before is heard the murmur of the brook in the silence of all other sounds.

Meynell had been detained in the morning by a most disagreeable visit from one of his discounting
acquaintances. A large bill had become due that day, and the man to whom it was owed insisted
on immediate settlement, under the threat of an arrest for the amount. Of course there were
no funds forthcoming, and credit was quite exhausted. Something was necessary to be done; the
scandal of being seized would probably damage his hopes of success with Kate Waring; and he
felt that if he could only stave off this difficulty for a week or a little more till the affair
was concluded and her property in his power, that all might yet be well. When other persuasions,
entreaties, and promises had failed to move his obdurate creditor, he at length confided the
hopes which he entertained of being very soon able, by a judicious marriage, to meet his engagements;
and gave a full account of the progress which, he flattered himself, he had made in the lady's
good graces. The only terms, however, that he could obtain were, that he should have two hours
more allowed him to be introduced to a Jewish gentleman, who might perhaps advance him the
money required at a remunerative rate of interest. There was nothing for him but to accept
this offer, and the Jewish gentleman was shown into his room.

The money-lender was a slight, sallow man, with black hair, cut very short, and face close
shaven. As Meynell was introduced, he thought he had a confused recollection of having met
the man before, but a second glance persuaded him that the face was strange. Exorbitant terms
were required and acceded to for the loan of the required sum for a fortnight, but that signified
little; he had no doubt of success, and then a few hundreds more or less would be of little
consequence. He was, to say truth, agreeably surprised at the loan being given at any price
under his apparently desperate circumstances, when the only security was the chance of a mercenary
marriage. The usurer seemed, indeed, quite in a hurry to write the check and receive the bond
for the debt. As he wrote, Meynell leant over him and observed that he moved his pen with some
difficulty and stiffness; on the back of his right hand were two small, but deep scars close
together.

Never was bridegroom more eager to hasten the hour of his happiness. The tedious arrangement
of the necessary legal affairs was hurried on by every means in his power; a fortnight was
but little law, and he now knew well that he must fall into the hands of one that would not
spare him; for though he did not appear to have recognised the detected and punished cheat
of his first night's mess party in the money-lender, nor did the other show any knowledge of
him, he could not but suspect that there was something more than an accident in his being thus
put into the power of a man he had so dangerously provoked. Lady Waring and Kate only attributed
his pressing haste to the ardour of affection, and with undoubted confidence received his plausible
explanations. The tenth day after that eventful evening was fixed for the marriage--but the
hour of wo was nearer still; the storm was about to burst over the widow and her child.

One morning, as Meynell was preparing to ride out to his daily visit, a brother officer entered
the room with a newspaper in his hand, and the eager air of a man who has news of interest
to communicate. "These bankers, from the name, are probably some relations of your friends,"
said he; "it seems a tremendous smash; a shilling in the pound, or something of that sort,
is talked of."

Meynell's thin lips closed like a vice for one moment, but the next he asked to see the paragraph
spoken of, in a tone of apparent indifference. He read it coolly, laid the paper aside, and
changed the conversation. When he was again alone his face grew dark as night, and that demon
expression swept over it like a tempest as, with an awful curse, he struck his clenched hand
on the table. He remained motionless for many minutes, holding counsel in his ruthless, selfish
mind. Not a thought of others' wo suggested itself--not one doubt or hesitation held him back
from trampling on a trusting and devoted heart. "But it may still not be true!" The hope, faint
as it was, aroused him to exertion. He rang the bell, and with his usual calmness of manner
and voice, said that he should not want his horse that day, but that he might probably have
to go away for a short time, and gave directions to have every thing ready for his departure
in an hour. He then walked out into the town, made some inquiries, which resulted in confirming
the disastrous intelligence, wrote a cold and hurried note to Lady Waring, in which "circumstances
over which I have no control" held a principal place, and a "necessary absence" was announced.
Before the message was despatched, he was on his route for the Continent.

The news of her ruin had also reached poor Lady Waring that morning; she was for a time stupified
by the suddenness and severity of the blow, and, pale and speechless, still held up the letter
before her eyes. Kate, alarmed at her mother's silence, hastened to her side, and a glance
over the fatal paper told the cause. She put her soft, white arm round the widow's neck, and
looked into her face with a smile of love and hopeful courage that, even in the first moment
of misfortune, made the burthen light.

"I wish Henry were come, mother," said she. "He will cheer you. All shall still be well. We
shall be just as happy in poverty as we were in wealth, and be kinder than ever. How I hope
he may not hear of this till we tell him! He would be so pained for our sakes; but when he
sees we bear it bravely he will rejoice."

Alas, poor child! while you were speaking these words of trusting consolation, he on whom you
placed your fond faith, with cool head and icy heart, was tracing the lines that were to tell
of his base desertion.

It was long ere Kate could receive the dreadful conviction of the truth. There was the note.
Could she mistake the handwriting? The bearer, too, had said that Meynell was gone; and the
distant, chilling tone--and no mention made of his return--and the news of her sudden poverty!
None but a woman that loved with a trusting and devoted heart could doubt what all this meant.
Days, weeks, months passed away, till time wore out hope, for he never came. As some fainting
wretch in a famine visits his scanty store in trembling secrecy, bit by bit consumes it to
the last, and then despairs, so she lived on till her faith grew less and less, and she hid
its last remnant in her heart, lest it should be torn from her; but it wasted fast away, and
not a shred was left.

In the meantime Lady Waring had sold her place, discharged her servants, except those who were
indispensable, and made arrangements to reside in a small house in the neighbouring town, where
her pension and the remnant of her fortune might enable her to live in comfort and respectability.
But, in the first instance, she went to live for a time with some relations near their former
residence, while the necessary preparations were being made for the change. Kate's state of
mind and health were constant and increasing anxieties to the poor mother, almost to the exclusion
of the recollection of her other misfortunes. Henry Meynell was never mentioned, but his handiwork
was plainly seen. Kate had rapidly grown old; the look of radiant happiness and trustingness
was gone. Her spirits were not altogether depressed, but rather subject to pitiful variations;
and at times the hectic excitement of her manner was even more distressing than her fits of
despondency.

Her kind friends tried to engage her in any amusements and occupations that were attainable,
and prevailed upon her to enter into the society and gaiety of the town, where she was no sooner
known than she became a universal favourite. Lady Waring was conscious that Kate submitted
to these instances only to please her, and induce her to believe that she was recovering her
tranquillity of mind. But the mother felt that the effort, however painful, might be useful,
and in the end attain to realise what was then but an appearance; so she always accompanied
her daughter, and did her utmost to maintain a cheerful countenance. This painful struggle
and simulation continued with more or less of success till the end of August, when a newspaper
announcement informed them that Henry Meynell had been married a fortnight before at Rome to
his cousin Miss Susan Meynell, a lady some years older than himself, who had always lived with
his uncle as the prime favourite, and had accompanied him to the Continent that year, on a
journey undertaken for his health. Henry had joined them not long before, in a state of great
poverty, but by the influence of an old preference which the lady entertained for him, he had
been reconciled to his uncle, who made a comfortable settlement upon his favourite and the
professedly reformed prodigal. The news of his conduct to the Warings had not reached the old
man at that time.

Lady Waring was astonished, indeed alarmed at the calmness with which Kate appeared to receive
the news of the consummation of Henry Meynell's treacherous desertion. For an hour or two she
seemed depressed and absent, but afterwards set about the usual pursuits of the day without
any apparent change of manner. They were to be present at a large ball that night; and Lady
Waring could not but wonder when she saw her daughter busied in arranging some simple ornaments
for the dress she was to wear, and preparing for the evening gaieties as if nothing had occurred
to disturb the current of her thoughts. At the ball she entered into the spirit of the dance
with apparently more than usual zest: some among the many who sought her, almost fancied they
were gaining ground in her good graces, and that this unwonted gaiety was the result of her
being pleased with them. Her mother watched her with alarm and surprise; her cheek was flushed,
her eye bright, her smile beaming on all around her. Was this real or unreal? Could one so
fair and good be without heart, and indifferent to the unworthiness of him to whom she had
given her troth?

The weary ball is at last ended,--they reach home,--she bids her mother good-night; as they
separate, her cheek flushes furiously, and her eye is brighter than ever, but she speaks quite
calmly--so calmly, indeed, that her mother is almost re-assured, and overcome with fatigue
lies down to rest and sleeps. Kate occupies the adjoining room.

At about six o'clock in the morning, Lady Waring, awoke from a troubled and unrefreshing sleep.
She fancied she heard light footsteps in her daughter's chamber; they seemed regular and measured,
as of some one pacing slowly. She tried to collect her scattered thoughts, and separate her
confused dreams from her waking perceptions. The gray light of morning already crept in through
the crevices of the closed windows, and threw a cold uncertain light on the familiar objects
around, only rendering them strange and indistinguishable. While yet she lay uncertain, the
footsteps left the next room and approached hers, with the same light but measured sound. Her
door opened and Kate entered, still in her ball-dress, with her long black ringlets forced
back off her forehead. She drew the curtains aside gently and leant over the bed, then pressed
her little white hands over her temples, and muttering some indistinct words, gazed upon her
mother.

Were the widow's life to be lengthened out into eternity itself, she never might forget that
look of her lost child. As a flash of the destroying lightning, it blasted her heart's hope,
and turned it to ashes. She sprang up and clasped her arms round her daughter: "Mercy, mercy,
Kate!" she cried, "speak to me once more. Are you ill? Do you suffer?" Oh! the sad, sad voice!
Each word the poor girl spoke in answer, froze her hearer's blood, as though that gentle breath
had been the ice-blast of the pole. "I do not know, mother," she replied, "but I have such
a pain here." She pressed her hands slowly over her brow, and with her white taper fingers
put back the loosened hair. Then in hurried accents whispered,--"Do not tell him--do not let
them take me away--but God help me, mother!" she added wildly: "I think I am MAD!" and it was
true. She sank beneath her first and only sorrow. In the effort to bear up against it, her
mind gave way; and she who might have diffused happiness on all around her, as a fountain sends
forth its waters, is to smile no more.

She was attacked that morning by a violent fever which lasted many weeks. At length she gradually
seemed to amend, but remained quite unconscious of her mother's unceasing care. The bright
red spot that burned upon her pale cheek, and the sharp hard cough that every now and then
shook her wasted frame, forbade awakening hope. "When she is able to move," said her medical
attendant, "the climate of Malta may be beneficial, but it is my sad duty to say that there
is no prospect of her mind being re-established." "Save her for me," said the wretched mother,
"even should I never hear her bless me again. Darkened though she may be, she is still the
lesser light that rules my night."

After some time they went to Malta, and for nearly two years, Lady Waring watched the alternations
of her daughter's health with fond and unceasing care. Almost a hope sometimes arose, but there
soon again came a relapse, and month by month she was plainly sinking, but very, very slowly;
the decay was so gradual, that her evidently approaching end came on her wretched mother suddenly
at last. She had been for some time unable to leave her bed, or indeed even to move, and her
breathing became painful and difficult.

It was on a January morning that the doctor felt it necessary to tell Lady Waring that the
end of her hopes and fears was at hand, for the patient could not last beyond that day. So
she sat down by the bedside in calm despair to watch the expiring lamp. About seven in the
evening, a sudden change seemed to come over the dying girl,--an animation of countenance,
and a look of re-awaking intelligence. She motioned feebly with her hand that her bed might
be moved close to the window, and when there, looked out anxiously upon the strange sea and
sky. She appeared to be making some mental effort, and after a little while, turned her eyes
towards the watcher, and murmured one blessed word of recognition,--"Mother."

Her setting sun, long hid by heavy mists, ere it sank below the horizon, threw one level ray
of pure unclouded light back over the troubled sea of life. At the approach of death--out of
the chaos of her mind--the memories of the past rose up, and stood in a broad picture before
her sight; and from the ruins of her broken heart its first and holiest affection ascended
like an incense. "God will love you, as you have loved me, mother;" she said. "Forgive him--I
pray for him--God will forgive him, and watch over you--good-bye--kiss me, mother." As she
lay wan, wasted, feeble, her voice was so faint and low that it almost seemed to come from
beyond the portals of the grave itself, to pardon and to bless.

The widow bent over the death-bed, and--oh, how tenderly!--pressed the cold lips of her lost
darling. At that loved touch, the failing tide of life flowed back for a moment and flushed
the pale cheek with joy unspeakable--then ebbed away for ever.

Now that we have left poor Kate where "the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at
rest," we must follow the dark course of him for whom she died. His marriage had but a short
time taken place, when he resumed his former habits, and totally neglected his wife. She at
first tried to win him back by increased tenderness, but he spurned it; then by tears and entreaties,
but he derided them. As a last effort, she tried to pique him by coldness--this pleased him
best, for it relieved him from her presence. He made no attempt to conceal his dislike and
contempt for his unhappy helpmate, or to throw a veil over his irregularities and dissipation.
He had been much disappointed in the discovery that he could not obtain possession of any of
the capital of his wife's fortune; and the sale of his commission, which was soon arranged,
proved far from sufficient to meet the liabilities awaiting him on his return to England. This
knowledge of the nature of the settlement was the ostensible ground of a quarrel with his wife,
which ended in her returning to her uncle's house, and his establishing himself at a fashionable
hotel in London, soon after their return from the Continent.

He had not been many days in England, before the implacable creditor who held the largest bond
against him found him out, and arrested him for the amount, while riding in the Park, with
all the insulting vexation that the greatest publicity could create. That he could raise the
sum required for his release, appeared very unlikely indeed, under the present circumstances,
to be accomplished. When within the precincts of the jail, Henry Meynell did not hesitate to
write imploringly to the wife he had outraged and the uncle he had so often deceived, praying
that they would pity his fallen condition, and release him from the grasp of the law. He was
not sparing in words of humiliation and penitence, and promises of future good conduct. These
arts had been so often tried before, that they might well have lost their effect on those to
whom they were addressed; but his poor wife, who was still fondly attached to him, in spite
of his unpardonable misconduct, could not bear the idea of his wasting in a jail, and used
her utmost efforts to get together whatever means she was possessed of, and to persuade her
uncle to assist him once more.

After some months' delay the necessary sum was procured, and to the chagrin and surprise of
his creditor, Henry Meynell was once more at liberty. He visited his wife for a short time,
but very soon left her again; she had deprived herself of the means of giving him any future
assistance by her sacrifices on this occasion. He, having no further object to gain, determined
to be burthened with her no more.

From this time he appears to have been utterly lost; but little is known of his proceedings
for the next year and a-half. He was seen occasionally haunting the billiard tables and gambling
houses in London and Paris, where his polished manners and prepossessing appearance gave him
many advantages, in carrying on his designs against those inexperienced victims who were unfortunate
enough to attract his notice. But he was evidently liable to great reverses of fortune at this
time, for he was met by a former brother officer on one occasion at Boulogne, so much reduced
that he was fain to make himself known, and pray for a small sum to take him over to London.
Finally, in the summer of 1836, he was concerned in some swindling transaction which, on its
discovery, brought him within the grasp of the law. He had, however, so extensive an acquaintance
and influence among such as himself, who were in no small number in London at that time, that
for a while he managed, with their assistance, to elude the police, and in a well-contrived
disguise, as an old man, still ventured to frequent houses of play.

One night he recognised among the crowd, at a table in Leicester Square, the well-known face
of the detected cheat. He watched narrowly to observe whether or not he was recognised. He
feared to leave the room suddenly lest it might excite a suspicion, but was reassured when
he saw that the pale man seemed so much absorbed in his game, as not to notice the other faces
round the board.

When, after a time, the object of his anxiety rose much excited and left the room, having lost
all the money he appeared to possess, he felt convinced that the danger had passed, and breathed
freely again.

It was early morning before he sallied out from the polluted atmosphere where he had passed
the night. He was proceeding slowly along toward home, when, from out a narrow court, as he
passed, a policeman pounced upon him, and grasped him by the collar, while the inveterate enemy
from whom he thought he had escaped without recognition, seized him at the same time. Henry
Meynell saw at a glance that there was no hope but in escape, so with all the exertion of his
powerful strength, he shook off his assailants. The foreigner fell heavily to the ground, but
the policeman tried to close again, till a blow from Meynell struck him violently to the earth.
Before they recovered themselves, the object of their attack was beyond the reach of capture.

Meynell did not venture to go again to his lodgings: he changed his dress at the house of an
acquaintance, and, warned by his narrow escape, determined at once to leave England. He wandered
along by the wharves, making inquiries about any vessels that were to sail immediately, little
caring what their destination might be. It so happened that he heard of one at hand that was
to sail for Canada that day. He was at once resolved. A favourable night's play had put him
in possession of sufficient funds. He purchased a few necessary articles for the voyage, and
before evening fell, was sailing down the river--an exile--an outcast from the land of his
birth, which he was never to see again.

During the voyage, his great powers of conviviality made him a special favourite of the captain
of the vessel; of course, he bore an assumed name, and professed to be merely going out with
the intention of becoming a settler, if he liked the promise of the country. He also made up
a plausible story, of having been disappointed in his passage by another ship, and forced at
the last moment to hurry on board this one. With the captain, however, he held a greater confidence;
and although no particulars were entered into, it transpired during their carouses that he
and the law were at variance.

The voyage passed without any event worth recording, and early on a bright September morning
they awoke under the shade of the bold headland of Quebec. Meynell's critical taste was gratified
by the mingled grandeur and softness of the scene; he was in no hurry to go ashore, friendless
and objectless as he was, so he leant his head upon his hand, and gazed out quietly over the
side of the vessel, enjoying the view so far as his diseased mind was capable of receiving
gratification from a harmless pleasure. He took little notice of the boats that came to, and
left the ship, nor did he ask the news of any one. What cared he for news? He saw old friends
or long separated relatives meet on the deck with warm and happy recognition. But there was
none to welcome him. It would be hard to say what thoughts then crossed the dark stage of his
mind; some long hidden spring of feeling may have been touched by what was passing round that
lost and lonely man; by little and little his head sank lower and lower, till his face was
buried in his hands, and so he stood.

He had remained for a long time silent and motionless, when he was suddenly aroused by a hand
being placed on his shoulder. He turned round with surprise, and found the captain of the ship
by his side, who said to him hurriedly. "The sooner you are out of this the better, friend.
A chap has been looking after you already, and I am sure he will be back again." The post had
arrived long before them, and Meynell's implacable enemy had contrived to find out his destination,
and to prepare the authorities for his arrival by a description of his person, that they might
arrest him at once. In this difficulty his friend the captain proved a ready counsellor. There
chanced to be a schooner alongside freighted with stores for the Indians of the Saguenay, that
was to sail almost immediately; the captain knew the skipper of this craft, and arranged with
him to take Meynell, who was to remain in that remote part of the country till the danger blew
over.

In a short time Meynell was steering down the river again, on his way to the lonely Saguenay,
little caring where he went; indeed, perhaps, he would have chosen this adventure to a remote
district, with the novelty of the Indian life, as readily as any thing else, even had he not
been impelled to it by necessity.

It may not be known to all that the Saguenay is a large river that flows from a lake of considerable
size, eastward into the St Lawrence, which it joins on the north side, a hundred and forty
miles below Quebec. It is of great depth, the waters dark and gloomy, and the scenery through
which they pass magnificent, but of a desolate and barren character. About seventy miles up
this great tributary is an infant settlement called Chicontimi, a station of the fur-traders.
Here the navigation ends, and, beyond, the labour of man has left but slight traces. At the
time of Meynell's arrival this district was inhabited, or rather hunted over, by a tribe called
by the Canadians, "Montaignais Indians,"--a friendly honest race, expert fishers and hunters,
and valuable neighbours to the fur-traders. The schooner was laden with stores of various kinds,
to be exchanged with those people for the produce of the chase.

In three days Meynell reached Chicontimi. The fur-traders were surprised at the unexpected
visitor, but as he proved to be a smart active fellow, and was not without means, they did
not object to his presence, and in a short time he made himself very useful. At this period
of the year, the Montaignais tribe always encamped near the settlement, and bargained for the
guns, powder and shot, blankets, and other necessaries, for the hunting expeditions of the
winter. Meynell soon became a favourite among them; his facility in learning their language,
his strength and activity, and skill with the rifle, gave him a great influence over their
simple minds. He particularly attached himself to an old hunter of much consideration, called
Ta-ou-renche, who had an orphan niece under his care, Atàwa by name, the acknowledged beauty
of the tribe. After a time Meynell adopted altogether the Indian mode of life. His days were
passed in the chase, or in wandering with his rod and gun by the shores of the beautiful and
almost unknown lakes of that lone and distant land. He soon became as expert as the Montaignais
themselves in their simple craft.

The autumn passed away, and winter closed in with its accustomed severity, locking up all nature
in its icy grasp. The fish in the lakes were then only to be obtained by laboriously cutting
channels in the massive ice, and all the birds and smaller animals had gone into their mysterious
exile. It was then time for the tribe to make their usual journey to the distant hunting grounds
of the north-east, where the Moose and Carribboo deer were wont to supply them with abundance
for their winter's store. Meynell determined to accompany them, and imitated and improved upon
their simple preparations. He obtained from the stores of the fur-dealers warm clothes, blankets,
and ammunition for the expedition; a small supply of pemican or preserved meat, and a little
flour, completed the loading of the light sleigh he was to drag after him over the snow; this
tobogan, as the Indians call it, is of a very light structure, and carries a burthen of fifty
or sixty pounds weight, with but little labour to him who draws it along.

The tribe started in the middle of December, crossing the frozen waters of the Saguenay at
Chicontimi, and then journeyed through the forest towards the inland valleys of Labrador. For
the first two days, their route lay along the bank of a considerable river, which, on account
of its rapid current, in many parts was not frozen over; and they rested at night at places
where they had supplies of fish and water. Their encampments were but rudely made, as the stay
only lasted for a night, and the severest cold of the winter was not yet come, to demand a
more elaborate and perfect shelter. Nearly eighty huge watch-fires threw their glare over the
dark woods at night; round each was a family of the Montaignais, the hunters, their wives and
children. Meynell, Ta-ou-renche, and Atàwa, formed one of these groups. The Englishman was
sadly fatigued and foot-sore after the first day's journey, although it had been but a short
one. The heavy and unaccustomed snow-shoe hurt his feet, though Atàwa's careful hands had tied
them on; and the weight of the tobogan wearied him, though both of his companions had given
him great aid. They watched him with the tenderest care, and long after he slept soundly on
his snowy couch, Atàwa sat with her eyes fixed upon his still beautiful face, lighted up by
the red flame of the watch-fire. The next day he got on better, and in a week he was able to
take his share in the labour, and walk as stoutly as any of them.

After they left the river's bank, they crossed a dreary table-land of great extent, nearly
a hundred and fifty miles across, where there was no brook or lake, and but little wood, and
that of a stunted and blasted growth; under the thick covering of the snow was nothing but
rock and sand and sterile soil, for all that weary way. In a few places they found masses of
ice, which they melted down for water, but there was neither fish nor game. Here they were
obliged to consume nearly all their store of provisions, but for this they were prepared, and
cared but little. Beyond this barren land lay the land of plenty, where they and their forefathers,
from time immemorial, had feasted on the abundant forest-deer. About the thirteenth evening
of their journey, they encamped within sight of this deeply wooded undulating country that
they sought, and celebrated their arrival with rude rejoicings.

The next morning they started equipped for the chase, the women following the hunters slowly
with their burdens. Ta-ou-renche pushed on among the foremost, Meynell nearly by his side,
while their dogs, half-starved and ravenous, dashed on in front. They had advanced for an hour
or two without meeting a quarry, to their great surprise, when they heard the dogs giving tongue
far ahead in a deep woody valley. Ta-ou-renche and Meynell pushed on rapidly, full of hope,
and excited at the prospect of the chase; they reached the brow of the hill, and descended
at a run into the valley, where they found the dogs all collected round the skeleton of a moose-deer,
tugging furiously at its huge bones. The snow around was much beaten down, and there was the
mark of a recent fire against the root of a tree close by. The Indian stopped short, and remained
motionless, as if frozen at the sight; after a little while, other hunters came up, and all
seemed equally paralysed with terror. When they found voice, they cried, "The Great Spirit
is angry with his children; other hunters have slain the moose and carribboo, and are many
suns before us; for us there will be none left, and we must die."

They pushed on further till the evening, and passed other skeletons of moose and carribboo
deer, picked clean by the carrion-birds. They saw the marks of many fires, and the remains
of a large encampment, deserted perhaps three weeks before. Some of the older hunters said
that, from the prints of the snow-shoes, they knew the Mic-Mac Indians of New Brunswick were
those who had swept the hunting grounds before them, and that they were many in number. That
night they held counsel together as to what they should do; some were for returning at once,
to throw themselves on the charity of the fur-traders; but there arose the appalling thought
of the barren land they had passed through. Others were for pushing on after the Mic-Macs to
pray for a share of their spoil--but how could they reach them? Some had consumed all their
provisions, the others had but enough left for one, or at most two days. To remain where they
were was death, and, on every side, starvation stared them in the face. At last, they agreed
to separate, and that each family should take its chance alone. Ta-ou-renche determined at
once to push for Chicontimi, and Atàwa and Meynell followed his fortunes.

The next morning they started on their return, and made a long day's march back into the barren
land. Poor Atàwa was very weary, and could give but little assistance in making the fire, and
their rude shelter for the night, and her uncle seemed oppressed and dejected; but Meynell's
vigorous health and bold spirit stood him in good stead. He divided the scanty store of provisions
that was left into three parts, the travellers being each to carry their own share; he ate
very sparingly. Ta-ou-renche was not so discreet, but consumed nearly all his portion at once,
and the next morning finished what was left! The weary journey continued--the cold became intense,--the
north wind swept over that awful solitude with a terrible severity; but still the wanderers,
in pain and weariness, pushed bravely on to the south-west. Could they but reach the river's
bank, they might find fish and fresh water and still live.

On the seventh night they halted in a small grove of stunted trees, after a long day's travel,
worn out with fatigue and hunger. The Indian had not, for the last five days, had a morsel
of food, and was terribly emaciated; the others had fasted three days, and were almost as much
reduced and enfeebled. They had scarcely sufficient strength among them to cut down wood for
their fire, and collect and melt the ice to slake their thirst; when they had heaped up a small
bank of snow, as shelter against the wind, they lay down almost helpless. A few carrion moose-birds
which had followed them for the last day, but always out of reach of the guns, chattered among
the trees. These ill-omened visitors came closer and closer, as they saw the group lying motionless,
and chattered and hopped from branch to branch over head, impatient for their prey. Meynell,
making the exertion with difficulty, cautiously seized his gun; but as he moved, the carrion
birds flew up into the air, and circled screaming above him; when he became still, then again
they approached. At last, by skilfully watching his opportunity, he brought one of them down
with a lucky shot, and pounced on it greedily. The carrion and scanty spoil was soon divided
into three portions, and their share ravenously devoured by the two men. After a little time
they became deadly sick, the fire spun round and round before their eyes, but at length Meynell
fell back in a heavy and almost death-like sleep. Atàwa had just strength enough left to fold
the blanket close round the sleeper, and cast a little more wood on the fire, when she too
sank down exhausted.

The Indian had till now borne the pangs of hunger with courage and patience, but the morsel
of food--the taste of blood, seemed to work like intoxication upon him. As his sickness passed
away, his eyes glowed in their deep sockets, with a fierce and unnatural brightness. His cheeks
were withered up, and his black parched lips drawn back, exposed his teeth in a horrible grin.
Possessed with a momentary strength, he raised himself on his hands and knees, and, grasping
an axe, moved stealthily towards the sleeper, madly thirsting for his blood. Atàwa saw him
coming, and guessed his terrible intent; she shook Meynell faintly, and called to him to awake.
He slowly opened his eyes, and thought it but a horrid dream, when he saw the wild glaring
eyes of the savage fixed upon him, and the gaunt arm upraised to strike, while Atàwa feebly
tried to hold it back. The blow descended the next moment, but the generous girl, unable to
restrain the maniac's force, threw herself in the way, and fell stricken senseless on the snow.
Her efforts had happily turned the edge of the axe, and she was only stunned, not wounded.
Meynell seized the Indian by the throat; they struggled to their feet, and grappled closely
together: the madman's furious excitement lent him force for a time to meet the greatly superior
strength of his opponent but he failed rapidly, his grasp relaxed, his eyes closed; Meynell,
mustering all his remaining energies, threw him back with violence, and then, utterly exhausted
in the struggle, fell himself also fainting to the ground.

When he began to recover, the dim morning light was reflected from the snowy waste, the fire
was nearly burnt down, and the intensity of the cold had probably awakened him. Atàwa still
lay motionless; he tried anxiously to arouse her, and at the same time to collect his scattered
thoughts, after the dreadful dream of the night before. She slowly recovered, and opened her
eyes to the sight of horror that presented itself to their returning consciousness. Ta-ou-renche
lay dead, and half consumed in the fire: he had fallen stunned across the burning logs, and
perished miserably.

Then a sudden terror seized the survivors, and lent them renewed strength; they scarcely cast
a second look on the charred corpse, but rose up and fled away together, leaving every thing
behind. For hours they hurried on, and exchanged never a word, Atàwa often casting a terrified
look behind, as though she thought she were pursued. About mid-day, their failing limbs refused
to carry them any farther, and they lay down on the trunk of a fallen pine. The winter sun
stood high up in the cloudless heaven, pouring down its dazzling but chilly light upon the
frozen earth. To the dark line of the distant horizon, far as the eye could reach lay the snowy
desert. There was not a breath of wind, no rustling leaves or murmuring waters, not a living
thing beside themselves breathed in that awful solitude; not a sound awakened the echoes in
its deathlike silence. Meynell's heart sank within him; the brief energy lent him by the terror
of the dreadful scene he had left, yielded now to the reaction of despair. Their throats were
parched with thirst; the gnawing pangs of hunger racked their wasted frames; they scarcely
dared to look upon each other, so fiercely burned the fire in their sunken eyes. He had ceased
to hope; with his feeble limbs stretched out, and his head rested on a branch, he waited helplessly
for death.

The Indian girl dragged herself slowly to his side, put a small phial to his parched lips,
and poured a few drops of brandy down his throat. He immediately revived, and the failing pulse
resumed its play. "You shall still live," she said; "a few hours' journey more, and we shall
reach the river; by this time the white man will be selling the pine trees on its banks. I
have kept this fire-water hidden till there was no other hope, and now it must save me too,
that I may guide you." She tasted the invigorating cordial sparingly, and now, animated with
new strength, they set out bravely once again. Slowly and painfully they press on, often falling
through exhaustion, but the strong hope and the stronger will urges them still on. The character
of the country begins to change, the trees become thicker and of a larger growth, the ground
varied with rise and hollow; and at length, to their great joy, a well-known hill appears in
sight, beyond which they know the wished-for river runs. They drain the last drop from the
phial, and again refreshed press on,--on, through the thick woods and falling shades of night.

Then the moon arose in unclouded splendour; her silver rays, piercing through the tall pine-trees,
lighted them on their way, and in a little time showed them a column of smoke rising from the
far side of the hill beyond the river into the still air. Hope was now almost a certainty:
they reached the high bank over the stream, but stumbling and falling at nearly every step.
In the vale beyond, they saw two or three woodcutters' huts, lighted up by blazing watch-fires.

Meynell rushed impatiently on, his eyes fixed upon the hope-inspiring lights. "Hold! hold!"
cried Atàwa, vainly trying to restrain him, "one step more, and you are lost!" But she spoke
too late: ere the echoes of her cry had ceased, Meynell's soul had gone to its last account.
He had approached too near the edge of the precipice: the snow gave way beneath his feet; a
moment more, and he lay a bleeding corpse upon the ice-bound rocks below. Atàwa's despairing
shrieks brought out the inmates of the huts. They were obliged to use force, to separate her
from the lifeless body; she rent her hair, and tried to lay violent hands upon herself, long
refusing all sustenance. From her incoherent words, they at length gathered something of her
story, and the probable fate of the rest of her tribe. Some of the woodmen immediately started
in hopes of rendering assistance to the unhappy Montaignais; they found six of the families
on their way, in the last stage of starvation, and saved them, but all the rest of the tribe
perished in that barren land.

The following night the woodmen dug a hole, and laid the mangled corpse to rest. It was so
light and emaciated, that a child might have borne it thither. They then heaped some snow over
it, and, threading their way by torchlight through the trees back to their huts, left it without
a blessing. So there he sleeps--unwept, save by the poor Indian girl! his fate for years unknown
to those who had wondered at his gifts and beauty. His bones lie whitening in that distant
land, no friendly stone or sod to shelter them from the summer sun and wintry frost.

Let us yet dare to hope, that in those last dark days of toil and suffering, where life and
death were in the balance, He, whose love is infinite, may have made the terrible punishment
of this world the furnace wherein to melt that iron heart, and mould it to His ends of mercy.

WAS RUBENS A COLOURIST?

I do not ask if Rubens was a man of genius. I am only questioning the title, which has been
so generally conferred upon him, of a colourist. I am aware that a host of artists and connoisseurs
will rather admire the audacity of making the inquiry, than pursue it, through the necessary
disquisition, into the true principles of art. It may be possible that the taste of the English
school, and of our English collectors, may have become to a degree vitiated. And with regard
to the former, the artists, (and I say it without at all denying their great abilities,) it
may be very possible, nay, it is certain, that any vitiation of taste must be a blight upon
their powers, natural or acquired, however great. I believe this very reputation of Rubens
as the great colourist, has been extensively injurious to the British School of Art, (if there
be such a school.) It has been so often repeated, that artists take it up as an established
fact, not to be denied; and have too blindly admired, and hence endeavoured (though for lack
of the material they have failed) to imitate him in this one department, his colour. The result
has been melancholy enough; an inferior, flimsy, and flashy style has been engendered, utterly
abhorrent from any sound and true principle of colouring. Even in Rubens, there is this tendency
to the flimsy, to the light glitter, rather than to the substantial glory of the art: but it
is much disguised under his daring hand, and by the use of that lucid vehicle which, independent
of subject, and even colour, is pleasing in itself. There is always power in his pictures,
for his mind was vigorous to a degree; a power that throws down the gauntlet, as it were, with
a confidence that disdains any disguise or fear of criticism: a confidence the more manifest
in the defects, particularly of grossness and anachronism, bringing them out strongly palpable
and conspicuous by a more vivid colouring, more determined opposition of dark and light,--as
if he should say, behold, I dare. And this power has the usual charm of all power; it commands
respect, and too often obeisance. But Rubens' colour requires Rubens' power in the other departments
of art. To endeavour to imitate him in that respect, with any the least weakness either of
hand or design, is only to set the weakness in a more glaring light, dressing it up, not in
the gorgeous array and real jewellery of the court, but in the foil and tinsel glitter, and
mock regality of a low theatrical pageantry. And this would be the case even if we had in use
his luscious vehicle; but with an inferior one, too often with a bad one, the case of weakness
is aggravated, and not unseldom the presumption and the failure of an attempt the more conspicuous.

I do not mean to say, that Rubens is universally imitated among us; but where his peculiar
style is not imitated, the vitiation to which it has led is seen, in the general tendency of
our artists, to shun the deep and sober tones of the Italian school, and, as their phrase is,
to put as much daylight as possible into their works. But even here I would pause to suggest,
that light, daylight, in its great characteristic, is more lustrous than white, and will be
produced rather by the lower than the lighter tones, as may be seen in the pictures of Claude,
whose key of colouring is many degrees lower than in pictures which affect his light, without
his means of attaining it.

It is surprising that there should be such inconsistency in the decisions of taste; but this
title of colourist has been bestowed chiefly upon two painters, who in this very respect of
colour were the antipodes to each other, Titian and Rubens. Are there no steady sure principles
of colour? If there be, it is impossible that such discordant judgments can be duly and justly
given.

It will be necessary to refer to something of a first principle, before we can come to any
true notion of good colouring. And it is surprising, when we consider its simplicity, that
it should, at least practically, have escaped the due notice of artists in general.

There are two things to be first considered in colour. Its agreeability per se,--its charm
upon the eye; and its adaptation to a subject,--its expressing the sentiment.

However well it may express the palpable substance and texture of objects that are but parts,
if it fail in these first two rules, the colour of a picture is not good. With regard to the
first, its agreeability. Is it a startling assertion to say, that this does not depend upon
its naturalness? That it does so is a common opinion. Aware, however, that the term naturalness
would lead to a deeper disquisition than I here mean to enter upon, I shall take it in its
common meaning, as it represents the common aspect of nature. Now, besides that this aspect
is subject to an almost infinite variety by changes of atmosphere, and other accidents, affording
the artist a very wide range from which to select, it has a characteristic as important as
its light and its dark of colour,--its illumination; so that a sacrifice (for art is a system
of compensation) of one visible truth, say a very light key, does not necessarily render a
picture less natural, if it attain that superior characteristic, which by the other method
it would not attain.

Then, again, that very variety of nature, by its multiplicity, disposes the mind ever to look
for a constant change and new effect, so that we are not easily startled by any actual unnaturalness,
unless it be very strange indeed, and entirely out of harmony, one part with another, as we
should be were one aspect only and constantly presented to us. This may be exemplified by a
dark mirror--and, better still, by a Claude glass, as it is called, by which we look at nature
through coloured glasses. We do not the less recognise nature--nay, it is impossible not to
be charmed with the difference, and yet not for a moment question the truth. I am not here
discussing the propriety of using such glasses--it may be right or it may be wrong, according
to the purpose the painter may have; I only mean to assert, that nature will bear the changes
and not offend any sense. The absolute naturalness, then, of the colour of nature, in its strictest
and most limited sense, local and aerial, is not so necessary as that the eye cannot be gratified
without it. And it follows, that agreeability of colour does not depend upon this strict naturalness.

I said, that it is of the first importance that the colouring be agreeable per se; that, without
any regard to a subject, the eye should be gratified by the general tone, the harmony of the
parts, and the quality--namely, whether it be opaque or transparent, and to what degree. There
are certain things that we greatly admire on this very account--such as all precious gems,
polished and lustrous stones and marbles, especially those into which we can look as into a
transparent depth.

A picture, therefore, cannot be said to be well coloured unless this peculiar quality of agreeability
be in it. To attain this, much exactness may be sacrificed with safety. It should be considered
indispensable.

And this perfect liberty of altering to a certain degree the naturalness of colouring, leads
properly to that second essential--its adaptation to a subject, or its expressing the sentiment.
For it is manifest, that if we can, without offending, alter the whole aspect of nature in
most common scenes, we can still more surely do so when the scenes are at all ideal or out
of the common character. And we can do it likewise without a sacrifice of truth, in the higher
sense of truth, as a term of art or of poetry.

For the mind also gives its own colouring, or is unobservant of some colours which the eye
presents, and makes from all presented to it its own selections and combinations, and suits
them to its own conception and creation. It has always been admitted that the painter's mind
does this with objects of form, omitting much, generalizing or selecting few particulars. Now
if this power be admitted with regard to objects themselves, as to their forms and actual presence,
why should it not, with equal propriety, be extended to the colours of those objects, even
though they have a sensible effect upon the scenes which are before us? But, as was said, the
mind colours; it is not the slave to the organ of sight, and in the painter, as in the poet,
asserts its privilege of making, delighting even to "exhaust worlds" and "imagine new." It
takes for an imperial use the contributions the eye is ever offering, but converts them into
riches of its own. It will not be confined by space, nor limited by time, but gathers from
the wide world, and even beyond its range. Thus, in the simple yet creative enthusiasm of his
passion, did Burns gather, at one moment, the flowers of all seasons, and all

    "To pu' a posy for his ain sweet May;"

and cold would be the criticism that would stop to note the impossibility; yet was it a great
truth, the garden was his own heart, and his every wish a new flower. Here they all were.

It is the misfortune of art that this great power of the mind over materials is not sufficiently
and practically admitted. In colouring we seem to have altogether abandoned the idea of invention.
We go quite contrary to the practice of those good architects of other ages, who spoke and
painted by their art; who invented because they felt the religious awe, that solemn chiaro-scuro--and
the painted windows, not gorgeous and flaring with large masses of unmixed colours, (as are
the unmeaning windows the modern Templars have put up in their ill-painted church, in which,
too, the somewhat tame and dead Byzantine colouring of the walls agrees not with the overpowering
glass of the windows;) these old architects, I say, affecting the "dim religious light," and
knowing the illumination and brilliancy of their material, took colours without a name, for
the most part neither raw reds, nor blues, nor yellows, but mixed, and many of a low and subdued
tone; and so, when these windows represented subjects, the designs had a suitable quaintness,
a formality, a saint-like immutability, a holy repose; and the very strong colours were sparingly
used, and in very small spaces; and the divisions of the lead that fastened the parts together
had doubtless, in the calculation of the architect, their subduing effect. Religious poetry--the
highest poetry, consequently the highest truth--was here. There are who might prefer the modern
conventicle, with its glare of sunshine, and white glass, and bare, unadorned, white-washed
walls, and justify their want of taste by a reference to nature, whose light and atmosphere,
they will tell you, they are admitting. And like this is the argument of many an artist, when
he would cover the poverty of his invention under the plea of his imitation of nature--a plea,
too, urged in ignorance of nature, for nature does actually endeavour--if such a word as endeavour
maybe used where all is done without effort--to subdue the rawness of every colour, and even
to stain the white-wash we put upon her works, and covers the lightest rocks with lichen.

But as the mind colours, and absolute naturalness is not necessary, it results that there must
be a science by which the mind can effect its purpose.

For the cultivation of a sense arises from a want which the mind alone at first feels, and
to the mind in that state of desire things speak suggestively that were before mute; discoveries
are made into the deeper and previously hidden secrets of nature, and new means are invented
of gratifying the awakened senses. Hence all art which is above the merely common and uncultivated
sense. All we see and all we hear takes a vitality not its own from our thoughts, mixes itself
(as aliment does, and becomes our substance) with our intellectual texture, and is anew created.

Winds might have blown, and wild animals have uttered their cries, but it was the heightened
imagination that heard them howl and roar. And it was from a further cultivation of the sense,
giving forth, at every step, new wants, that the nature of all sounds was investigated and
music invented--science but discovering wonderful mysteries, secrets, and gifted faculties
drawing them out of their deep hiding-places, making them palpable, and combining and converting
them into humanities whereby mankind may be delighted and improved.

If, then, the ear has its science, so has the eye. There is the mystery of colours as well
as of sounds. Nor can it be justly said that we are out of nature because we pursue that mystery
beyond its commonly perceptible and outward signs to its more intricate truths; nay, on the
contrary, as we have thereby more of those truths, we have more of nature; and we know them
to be truths by their power and by their adoption.

This science of colour has been, perhaps, too much neglected. In conversing with artists, one
is surprised how little attention they have paid to it; and even where it has been studied,
it is only upon its surface, and by those well known diagrams which show the oppositions.

Few, indeed, consider colouring as a means of telling the story--as at all sympathetic. In
an historical subject, more attention is paid to the exact naturalness of the light, the time
of day, the local colouring of the objects, as they probably were, than upon those tones and
hues which best belong to the feeling which the action represented is meant to convey: by which
practice an unnaturalness is too often the result; for there is forced upon the eye a vividness
and variety of colours, in dresses, accessories, and the scene, which one present at the action
would never have noticed--which, as the feeling would have rejected, so would the obedient
eye have left undistinguished; and we know how the eye is obedient to the feelings and withholds
impressions, and in the midst of crowds, to use a common expression, will "fix itself on vacancy."
It will do even more; it will adopt the colouring which the feeling suggests--will set aside
what is, and assume what is not. Thus, in reading some melancholy tale, the very scene becomes

    "Sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought;"

and thus it is that actually the eye aids tile imagination while it

    "Breathes a browner horror o'er the woods."

This neglect of colour as an end, as a means of narration, and as a sympathy, is peculiar to
modern art. And hence it is, that there is less feeling among us for works of the Italian schools,
than for those less poetical, and too often mean and low ones of the Dutch and Flemish. I mean
not here to pass any censure on the colouring of the Dutch and Flemish schools; it was admirable
in its lucid and harmonious, but mostly so in its imitative, character. Their subjects seldom
allowed scope for any high aim at sympathetic colouring: both appealed to the eye,--not without
exceptions, however,--to mention one only, Rembrandt, whose colouring was generally ideal,
and by it mostly was the story told. But one perfection of colour they almost all of them had,
that agreeability, that gem-like lustre and richness, which I spoke of as one of the essentials
of good colouring. And in this, even where modern art has professed to work upon the model
of the Flemish school, it has failed, and by endeavouring to go beyond that school in brightness,
has fallen very far short of its excellence; for in the very light key that has been adopted,
and the prevalence of positive white, it has lost sight of that mellowness and illumination
which is so great a charm in the Dutch and Flemish pictures. It has, too, mistaken lightness
for brightness, and a certain chalkiness has been the result. And artists who have fallen into
this error, perceiving, as they could not fail to do, this bad effect, have endeavoured to
divert the eye from this unpleasantness, by force, by extreme contrasts of glazed dark, by
vividness of partial crude colours, and by the violence of that most disagreeable of all pigments,
as destructive of all real depth and atmosphere--asphaltum.

In our assuming, then, this very high, this white key, we deviate from the practice of every
good school. It is not desirable that this should be the peculiarity of the English school;
but it certainly has too great a tendency that way. The Dutch and Flemish are of a much lower
key, and the Italian of a lower still. Even in their landscape it is remarkable, that the painters
whose country was the lightest, should have adopted the deepest tones; and that the landscapes
of their historical painters are of all the deepest, and they were the best landscape painters.
What exquisite richness and depth, and jewel-like glow, is there in the landscape of Titian,
and Giorgione; and what illumination, that superior characteristic of nature, so much overlooked
now a-days. And yet our country is, from our atmosphere, darker than theirs, and presents a
greater variety of deep tones and nameless colours. And as I before mentioned, the admired
Claude, whom I rank of the Italian school, is of a very low key, delighting in masses of deep
tones. And it is remarkable that his trees are never edged out light with Naples yellow, as
our artists are fond of doing, but are mostly in dark masses, and whether near or distant,
singly or in groups, are always without any strong and vivid colour. His object seems to have
been to paint atmosphere not light, or rather that free penetrating light which he best effected
by his lower key. And from this cause it is, that the eye rests, is filled, satisfied by the
general effect, is never irritated either by too much whiteness, or too vivid colours; for
he knew well that such irritation, though at first it attracts and forces attention, is after
a while painful, and should therefore at any sacrifice be avoided.

But, to return to colouring as an expression. Here is a great field for practical experiment.
On this subject I will quote a passage from the Sketcher in Maga of Sept. 1833.

"As in music all notes have their own expression, and combinations of them have such diversity
of effect upon the mind, may not the analogy hold good with regard to colours? Has not every
colour its own character? And have not combinations of them effects similar to certain combinations
in sounds? This is a subject well worth the attention of any one who has leisure and disposition
to take it up: and I am persuaded that the old masters either worked from a knowledge of this
art, or had such an instinctive perception of it, that it is to be discovered in their works.
Suppose a painter were to try various colours on boards, and combinations of them--place them
before him separately with fixed attention, and then examine the channels into which his thoughts
would run. If he were to find their character to be invariable, and peculiar to each of the
boards put before him, he would learn that before he trusts his subject to the canvass, he
should question himself as to the sentiment he intends it to express, and what combination
of colours would be consentient or dissentient to it.

"This will certainly account for the colours of the old (particularly the historical) painters
being so much at variance with common nature, sometimes glaringly at variance with the locality
and position of the objects represented." "This knowledge of the effect of colours is certainly
very remarkable in the Bolognese school. Who ever saw Corregio's backgrounds in nature, or
indeed the whole colour of his pictures, including figures? Examine his back-ground to his
Christ in the garden--what a mystery is in it! The Peter Martyr, at first sight, from the charm
of truth that genius has given to it, might pass for the colour of common nature; but examine
the picture as an artist, and you will come to another conclusion, and you will the more admire
Titian."

Some critics have been misled by the simplicity of art in this masterpiece of Titian's, and
have greatly admired the exactness with which he has drawn and coloured every object; but they
have been deceived by that perfect unity which exists in all its parts, and have wrongly conceived
the kind of naturalness of the picture. It is full of this sympathetic naturalness of colour;
we are thoroughly satisfied, and ascribe that general naturalness to each particular part.
Indeed if it were altogether in colour and forms no more than common nature, there would be
no real martyrdom in it--it would be but a vulgar murder; but every part is in sympathy with
the sentiment. Had Titian merely represented the clear sky of Italy, and brought out prominently
green-leaved trees and herbage, because such things are, and were in such a scene where this
martyrdom was suffered, the picture would not have been as it is, and must ever be, the admiration
of the world and a monument of the genius of Titian. There was wanted a sky in which angels
might come and go, and hover with the promise of the crown and glory of martyrdom, and there
must be an under and more terrestrial sky, still grand and solemn, such as might take up the
tale of horror, and tell it among the congenial mountains; and such there is in the voluminous
clouds about the distant cliffs. And it is very observable that, in this picture, Titian, the
colourist, is most sparing of what we are too fond of calling colour.[10] Colour, indeed, there
is, and of the greatest variety, but it is all of the subdued hues, with which the very ground
and trees are clothed, that nothing shall presume to shine out of itself in the presence of
the announcing angels, and to be unshrouded before such a deed.

I remember, I think it was about three years ago, a picture which well exemplifies this ideal
colouring. It was exhibited at the Institution; it was of a female saint to whom the infant
Saviour appears, by P. Veronese. The very excellence of the colouring was in its natural unnaturalness;
I say natural, because it was perfectly true to the mystic dream, the saintly vision; a more
common natural would have ruined it. No one ever, it is true, saw such a sky--but in a gifted
trance it is such as would alone be seen, acknowledged, and remembered as of a heavenly vision.
All the colouring was like it, rich and glorifying and unearthly, and imitative of the sanctifying
light in old cathedrals. The sky was of very mixed tones and hues of green. The entire scene
of the vision was thus hemmed in with the light and glory of holiness, apart from the world's
ideas and employments. Why should modern painters be afraid of thus venturing into the ideal
of colouring? Never was there a greater mistake, than that the common natural can represent
the ideal. Wilkie with all his acuteness and good sense was bewildered with a notion of their
union, and thought his sketches from the Holy Land would assist him in painting sacred subjects;
whereas the truth is, that the very realities before his eyes would unpoeticise his whole mind;
instead of trusting to his feeling, to his visionary dream, he would begin to doubt, as he
did, what should be the exact costume, if his figures should stand or sit as Asiatics. As we
are removed from events by time, so should we be by thought; we pass over an extensive region,
and the clouds of days and of nights pursue us out of it, and we look back upon it in our memory,
as under another light--the land itself, by distance and by memory making it a part of our
minds, more than of our vision, becomes fabulous; it is no longer one for common language,
but for song; and so the pencil that would paint it must be dipped in the colours of poetry.
Memory glazes, to use a technical word, every scene. "The resounding sea and the shadowy mountains
are far between us," as Homer says, and those fabulous territories that we love to revisit
in the dreams of poetic night. There are no muses with their golden harps on Highgate Hill;
nor would the painter that would paint them be over wise to expect a glimpse of their white
feet on the real Parnassus.[11] As to nature in art, we make too much of a little truth, neglecting
the greater. It is not every creation that is revealed to the eye; even to adore and to admire
properly, we must imagine a more beautiful than we see. The inventions of genius are but discoveries
in regions of a higher nature.

          "God's work invisible,
    Not undiscover'd, their true stamp impress
    On thought, creation's mirror, wherein do dwell
    His unattained wonders numberless."

Of late years some painters have taken up the novelty of representing scriptural subjects as
under the actual scenery and climate of the holy land, and attempted besides to portray the
characteristics of the race,--a thing never dreamed of by the great painters of history. They
are partial to skies hot and cloudless, and to European feelings not agreeable; forgetful of
a land of promise and of wonder, and that these subjects belong, and must be modified to the
mental vision of every age and country. They abhor the voluminous and richly coloured clouds,
as unnatural. Can they not feel the passage--

    "Who maketh the clouds his chariot?"

Let then, not only their forms, but their colours too, be as far as may be worthy Him whom
they are said to bear. They are, as it were, the folding and unfolding volumes wherein the
history of all creation is written. As they are prominent in the language of poetry, so should
they ever be the materials for poetic art.

I speak of this noble character of cloud skies, because a writer of more persuasive power than
mature judgement,--the Author of "Modern Painters,"--has condemned them; that he has not felt
them is surprising. He has, however, in his second, in many respects admirable part, manifested
such change of opinion, and has shown such a growing admiration for the old masters, whom in
his first volume he treated with so little respect, nay, with perfect contempt, that I cannot
doubt the operation of his better judgment, when in prosecuting his subject, he will be led
to consider the use of these materials of nature to poetic art.

I must not, however, forget that I began this paper with questioning the title of Rubens as
a colourist. It has been shown, that I consider no painter a colourist, who does not unite
the two essentials of colour,--agreeability, and its perfect sympathy with the subject.

I have endeavoured to show in what this agreeability consists. I have not presumed to lay down
any definite rules for the second great essential; but I have endeavoured by illustration to
enforce its necessity; in this confident that a proper practice will follow, and be the necessary
result of a proper feeling. Now to speak of Rubens; what are his characteristics as a colourist?
Wherein lies his excellence? I do not stop to repeat any of the extravagant praises that have
been so freely lavished upon him. But I would ask, is there one important picture by his hand,
wherein the colour is of a sentiment? Is there any one which, if you remove from it to such
a distance as not to see the subject in its particulars, will indicate by its colouring what
sort of narrative is to be told by a nearer inspection? Try him by those in our National Gallery.
I will take first, his most powerful, and one of a subject most advantageous perhaps to his
manner, because there is no very striking sentiment to be conveyed by it; for he seems scarcely
serious in his treatment of this passage in the Roman history. I speak of his "Rape of the
Sabines." Inasmuch as it is a picture of glare, and fluster, and confusion, it may be said
to represent the subject; but such ought not to be the sentiment of it. But inasmuch as it
has this glare, and is entirely deficient in all repose of colour, (for it is not requisite
to representation of violent action, that there should not be that character of repose of colour
which the essential agreeability demands,) the eye cannot rest upon it with satisfaction as
a whole. You must approach it then nearer, to see how the particular objects are coloured.
You will be pleased with the skill with which one colour is set off by another; and, doubtless,
you will acknowledge a certain truth in the flesh tints: but all this while you are led away
from the subject, draw no conclusion from it as a whole, and are induced to examine a detail
which, however coloured with skill, and powerfully executed, is vulgar and disgusting. A mere
trifle more of gross vulgarity would turn it into caricature, and you would think, that Rubens
had been a successfully laborious satirist upon the narrative of the Roman historian. I confess
that, but for its technical merits, which are lost upon most of the visitors of the Gallery,
the picture would give me no pleasure whatever, nay, much disgust, as altogether derogatory
to the dignity of art.

I purposely pass by his allegorical pictures as mere furniture for walls, not being subjects
of sentiment; nor should I very much care if his "Peace and War" were in the sorry condition
which has been wrongly given to it.

Examine then the Judgment of Paris. Here is a subject most favourable for him. It shows glaringly
the defect of his manner. Admit that his flesh tints are most natural, that they are beautiful;
has he not sacrificed too much to make them so? All, excepting these nude figures, is monotonous,
has no relation by any tint to the figures, or to any idea of sentiment such a subject may
be supposed to convey. The single excellence lies in the flesh-colouring of the three goddesses.
But when I use the word excellence, I do not mean to say that in this respect he surpasses
any other painter, as I will presently show. Now, there is a peculiarity in Rubens' method,
and which strictly belongs to his colouring, from which arises what may be not improperly designated
flimsiness, that is, the leaving too much of the first getting in of his picture, the first
transparent sketchy brown. If in some respect this gives force to the more solid parts, by
the contrast of the transparent with the opaque, yet is it rather a flashy force, in which
the means become too visible; an entire substance is wanted; we come too immediately to the
bare ground of the canvass. And this first colouring being a mere brown, not deserving the
name of colour, as it is not the real colour of the objects upon which it is disposed, is in
entire disagreement with the studied truth to nature in the other parts. There is every reason
to believe that Rubens, after his return from Italy, was aware of this, by his partially adopting
the Italian method of more generally solid painting and after glazing; but he returned to the
Flemish method, and as it certainly was the more expeditious, it may have better suited his
hand, and the demands upon it. Now, here it may be remarked, that even for the first essential--agreeability
of colouring, that is, of the substance of the paint--it is necessary that it should be rich,
really a substance, not a merely thin wash: such was the positive depth of even the shadowy
parts in the back grounds of Corregio; the paint itself is a rich substance, with the lustrous
depth of precious stones. So that it would appear that there is in Rubens' style of colouring
an original incompleteness, destructive in part of the naturalness he would aim at; it is a
mannerism, very tolerable in such light works as those lucid and charming pictures by Teniers
where all is light and unlaboured; but becoming a weakness where the other labour and the subject
are important.

Now, with regard to this celebrated excellence of his, in colouring the nude, (and here it
should be observed, that it is almost exclusively in his female figures,) however natural it
may be, is it nature in its most agreeable, its most perfect colouring? It has been said, and
intended as praise, that the flesh looks as if it had fed upon roses; but is it a praise? I
should rather say it would not unaptly express the thinness, the unsubstantialness of it, as
of a rose leaf surface merely. In form, indeed, the figures are any thing but thin and unsubstantial:
but I am considering only the colouring; it is not rich; it has indeed the light and play of
life, but it has not the glow; it is a surface life, not life, warm life to the very marrow,
such as we see in the works of Titian and Giorgione. They did not, as Rubens did, heighten
the flesh with pure white; they reserved the power of that for another purpose, preserving
throughout a lower tone, so that the eye shall not fasten upon any one particular tint, the
whole being of the character of the "nimium lubricus aspici." Their white and their dark, they
artfully placed as opposition, the cool white to set off the warmth, the life-glow of the flesh,
and the dark to make the low tone shine out fair; so that in this very excellence of flesh
painting, they were more perfect, that one only approach to excellence, by which it should
seem Rubens had acquired his title as a colourist. But these painters, as well as many others--though
take only these, as the most striking contrasts to Rubens--excelled also in the agreeability
of their colouring, without reference to subject, and in the sympathy with regard to it. So
that in them were united the two essentials. Whereas Rubens had in any perfection neither;
the one not at all, and the other only in a minor part and degree.

Such was the general character of Rubens' colouring. I do not mean that there are no felicitous
exceptions. I would notice--but there the human figure is not--his lioness on a ledge of rock;
there is an entire absence of his strong and flickering colours: on the contrary all is dim--the
scenery natural to the animal, for it partakes of its proper colours, (and this is strictly
true, as the hare and the fox conceal themselves by their assimilating earths and forms.) The
spectator advances upon the scene, unaware of the stealthily lurking danger. The dimness and
repose are of a terror, that contrast and forcible colour would at least mitigate; the surprise
would be lost, or rather be altogether of another kind; it would arm you for the danger, which
becomes sublime by taking you unprepared. And there is his little landscape with the sun shedding
his rays through the hole in the tree, where the sentiment of the obscure--the dim wood--is
enhanced by the bright gleam--and there is in this little picture a whole agreeability of colour.
His landscapes in general are, however, very strange; rather eccentric than natural in colour,
yet preserving the intended atmospheric effect by an idealism of colouring not quite in keeping
with the unromantic commonness of the scenery.

But these exceptions do not indicate the characteristics of Rubens as a colourist; he is more
known, and more imitated, as far as he can be imitated, in the mannerism of his style which
has been described.

Deficient, then, as I think him to have been in these two essentials, I am still disposed to
question his claim to the title, and to ask, "Was Rubens a colourist?" If the answer be in
the negative, it may be worth while to consider the precise point from which his style may
be said to have deviated from the right road; nor is it here necessary to particularise, but
to refer to the Italian practice generally, which will be found to consist chiefly in this--in
the choosing a low key; and for the greatest perfection of colouring, the proper union of the
two essentials of good colouring, it may be safe to refer, first to the Venetian, the Lombard,
and then to the Bolognese schools. Not that the Roman school is altogether to be omitted. Out
of his polished style, Raffaelle is often excellent--both rich in tone, and, where he is not
remarkably so, often sentimental. Some of his frescoes, as the Heliodorus, are good examples.
And in that small picture in our National Gallery, the "St Catherine," the sentiment of purity
and loveliness is admirably sustained in the colouring. There is in the best pictures of that
school no affected flashiness of high lights--no flimsiness in the unsubstantial paint in the
shadows; there is an evenness throughout, which, if it reach not the perfection of colouring,
is the best substitute for it.

Power is not inconsistent with modesty--with forbearance. In the flashy style, all the force
is expended, and visibly so; and as in that excess of power the flash of lightning is but momentary,
we cannot long bear the exhibition of such a power rendered continuous. In the more modest--the
subdued style--the artist conceals as much as may be the very power he has used, thereby actually
strengthening it; for while you have all you want, you know not how much may be in reserve,
and you feel it unseen, or may believe it to be unseen, when in fact it is before your eyes,
though half veiled for a purpose.

Let not any painter who would be a colourist deceive himself into the belief that the most
vivid and unmixed colours are the best for his art, nor that even they are the truest to nature,
in whatever sense he may take the word nature. It is easy enough to lay on crude vermilion,
lake, and chrome yellows; yet the colours that shall be omitted shall be infinite, and by far
more beautiful than the chosen, and for which, since the generality are not painters, nor scientific
in the effects of colours, there are no names. Let a painter who would have so limited a scale
and view of colour do his best, and the first flower-bed he looks at will shame him with regard
to those very colours he has adopted, as with regard to those thousand shades of hues, mixed
and of endless variety, which are still more beautiful. We scarcely ever in nature see a really
unmixed colour; and that the mixed are the most agreeable may be more than conjectured, from
the fact that, of the three, the blue, the red, and the yellow, the mixture of the two will
be so unsatisfactory, that the mind's eye will, when withdrawn, supply the third.

A few words only remain to be said. To complete, practically, agreeability of colouring, there
is wanting a more perfect vehicle for our colours. Much attention has, of late years, been
directed to this subject; and there is every reason to believe not in vain. I wait, impatiently
enough, Mr Eastlake's other volume, in which he promises to treat of the Italian methods. He
has been indefatigable in collecting materials,--has an eye to know well what is wanted; and,
as a scholar and collector of all that has been written on art, in Italian, as well as other
languages, has the best sources from which to gather isolated facts, which, put together, may
lead to most important discoveries.

Mrs Merrifield, also, whose translation from Cennino Cennini, and whose works on fresco painting
are so valuable, has been collecting materials abroad, and will shortly publish her discoveries.
The two proofs to which we are to look are documents and chemistry. The secret of Van Eyck
may have been found out, but its modification under the Italian practice will be, perhaps,
the more important discovery. I am glad also to learn, that Mr Hendrie intends to publish entire
with notes, the "De Magerne MS." in the British Museum. I believe artists are already giving
up the worst of vehicles, the meguilp, made of mastic, of all the varnishes the most ready
to decompose, as well as to separate the paint, and produce those unseemly gashes which have
been the ruin of so many pictures.

Whether colour be considered in its agreeability, per se, or in its sympathetic, its sentimental
application,--for the attainment of either end, it is of the highest importance to resume the
very identical vehicle, and the mode of using it, which were the vehicle and the methods of
Titian, Giorgione, and Corregio, and generally of the old masters. Yours ever,

                                              A----s.

    4th June, 1847.

FOOTNOTES:

[10] Titian's palette was most simple: the great variety in the colouring of his pictures was
effected by the fewest and most common colours--browns I believe he did not use, of which we
boast to possess so many; the ochres, red and yellow, with his black and blue, made most or
all of his deepest tones, the great depth being given, by glazing over with the same, and touching
in here and there slight varieties, more or less of the red or yellow, lighter or darker being
used in these repetitions. Hence the harmony of his general tones--upon which, as the subject
required them, he laid his more vivid colours. I believe the best painters have used the simplest
palette--the fewest colours. Our own Wilson is said to have replied to one who told him a new
brown was discovered, "I am sorry for it." But by far the most injurious of all our pigments
is asphaltum; it always gives rather rottenness than depth.

[11] Mr Etty has written a letter, which has been lithographed and widely circulated, bearing
so directly upon this subject, that I cannot refrain from noticing it. And this I do, because
the authority of a Royal Academician, and one, I believe, selected to be judge in the distribution
of the prizes in Westminster Hall Exhibition, cannot but have an influence, both with the public
and the rising professors of the art.

He speaks of his high purposes in his choice of the subject of Joan of Arc and other pictures,
and the process by which those purposes were brought to completion. He tells us, that in his
enthusiasm he visited, as a pilgrim, the spot where the heroic and tragic scenes of his subject
were enacted. He presumes that the houses there are now pretty much what they were then; and
he has thought an exact representation of them necessary to historical truth, and he has accordingly
introduced them.

Enthusiasm is good, but it should in this, as in all human concerns of importance, be under
the guidance of strong principles. Now here the principles of historical painting, which separate
that great act from the lower and imitative, are violated.

Had an eyewitness described as he felt the event which Mr Etty has undertaken to paint, would
he have told of or portrayed to the mind's eye, and prominently, the very houses, with all
their real accidents of material and colours, so that, were a tile off a roof, your sympathy
must be made to stay for the noticing it?

This precision is not for historical painting, for it is in antagonism with poetry, (which
is feeling high-wrought, by imagination.) It is wrong in colouring as in design. With regard
to the first, the question should be asked--How would memory have coloured it to the spectator
in his after vision? How would imagination colour it in the page of history? Details of this
kind are sure to vulgarise a subject, and by their little truths destroy the greater--the heroism,
the devotion--to which the eye would most naturally have been riveted, so as to have seen little
else, and to have been quite out of a condition to arithmetise the pettinesses of things. Such
treatment would better suit the levity of the author of the "Pucelle" than the grave historian
or the still more serious and impressive historical painter. It is very important that Mr Etty,
if he is likely to be again selected to pronounce judgment upon works of the competitors for
rewards in historical painting and honour, revise his opinions, and test them by the established
principles which are applicable alike to poetry and to painting; and without the practical
use of which, genius, if it could co-exist, would be but an inane and objectless extravagance.

THE AMERICAN LIBRARY.[12]

We are not--as the title placed at the head of this paper, till further explained, might seem
to imply--we are not about to pass in review the whole literature of America. Scanty as that
youthful literature is, and may well confess itself to be, it would afford subject for a long
series of papers. Besides, the more distinguished of its authors are generally known, and fairly
appreciated, and we should have no object nor interest just at present in determining, with
perhaps some nearer approach to accuracy than has hitherto been done, the merits of such well-known
writers as Irving, Cooper, Prescott, Emerson, Channing, and others. But the series now in course
of publication by Messrs Wiley and Putnam, under the title of "Library of American Books,"
has naturally attracted our attention, bringing as it were some works before us for the first
time, and presenting what--after a few distinguished names are bracketed off--may be supposed
to be a fair specimen of the popular literature of that country.

It will be seen that we have taken up a pretty large handful for present examination. Our collection
will be acknowledged, we think, to be no bad sample of the whole. At all events we have shaken
from our sheaf two or three unprofitable cars, and one in particular so empty, and so rotten
withal, that to hang over it for close examination was impossible. How it happens that the
publishers of the series have admitted to the "Library of American Books" as if it were a book--a
thing called "Big Abel and The Little Manhattan," is to us, at this distance from the scene
of operations, utterly inexplicable. It is just possible that the author may have earned a
reputable name in some other department of letters; pity, then, he should forfeit both it,
and his character for sanity, by this outrageous attempt at humour. Perhaps he is the potent
editor of some American broad-sheet, of which publishers stand in awe. We know not; of this
only we are sure, that more heinous trash was never before exposed to public view. We read
two chapters of it--more we are persuaded than any other person in England has accomplished--and
then threw it aside with a sort of charitable contempt. For the sake of all parties, readers,
critics, publishers and the author himself, it should be buried, at once, out of sight, with
other things noisome and corruptible.

On the other hand, we shall be able to introduce to our readers (should it be hitherto unknown
to them) one volume, at least, which they will be willing to transfer from the American to
the English library. The "Mosses from an old Manse," is occasionally written with an elegance
of style which may almost bear comparison with that of Washington Irving; and though certainly
it is inferior to the works of that author in taste and judgment, and whatever may be described
as artistic talent, it exhibits deeper traces of thought and reflection. What can our own circulating
libraries be about? At all our places of summer resort they drug us with the veriest trash,
without a spark of vitality in it, and here are tales and sketches like these of Nathaniel
Hawthorne, which it would have done one's heart good to have read under shady coverts, or sitting--no
unpleasant lounge--by the sea-side on the rolling shingles of the beach. They give us the sweepings
of Mr Colburn's counter, and then boastfully proclaim the zeal with which they serve the public.
So certain other servants of the public feed the eye with gaudy advertisements of every generous
liquor under heaven, and retail nothing but the sour ale of some crafty brewer who has contrived
to bind them to his vats and his mash-tub.

The first book we opened of this series is one called, with a charming alliteration, "Views
and Reviews," by the author of "The Yemassee, &c." whom we fortunately learn, from another
quarter, to be a gentleman of the more commodious name of Mr Sims; and the first words which
caught our eye were "Americanism in Literature," printed in capital letters, it being the title
of an essay which has for its object to stimulate the Americans to the formation of a national
literature. This appears to be a favourite subject with a certain class of their writers, more
distinguished for ardour than for judgment. Mrs Margaret Fuller, in her Papers on Literature
and Art, is also eloquent on the same theme. Let us first hear Mr Sims. There is in this gentleman's
enthusiasm a business-like air which is highly amusing.

"Americanism in Literature. This is the right title. It indicates the becoming object of our
aim. Americanism in our literature is scarcely implied by the usual phraseology. American literature
seems to be a thing certainly--but it is not the thing exactly. To put Americanism in our letters,
is to do a something much more important. The phrase has a peculiar signification which is
worth our consideration. By a liberal extension of the courtesies of criticism, we are already
in possession of a due amount of American authorship; but of such as is individual and properly
peculiar to ourselves, we cannot be said to enjoy much. Our writers are numerous--quite as
many perhaps as, in proportion to our years, our circumstances, and necessities, might be looked
for amongst any people. But, with very few exceptions, their writings might as well be European.
They are European. The writers think after European models, draw their stimulus and provocation
from European books, fashion themselves to European tastes, and look chiefly to the awards
of European criticism. This is to denationalise the American mind. This is to enslave the national
heart--to place ourselves at the mercy of the foreigner, and to yield all that is individual
in our character and hope, to the paralysing influence of his will, and frequently hostile
purposes."--(P. 1.)

All the literati of Europe are manifestly in league to sap the constitution and destroy the
independence of America; and, at this very time, its own men of letters:--the traitors!--are
seeking a European reputation. Truly a state of alarm which may be described as unparalleled.
"A nation," says our most profound and original patriot, "must do its own thinking, as well
as its own fighting, for as truly as all history has shown that the people who rely for their
defence in battle on foreign mercenaries, inevitably become their prey; so the nation falls
a victim to that genius of another to which she passively defers." Fearful to contemplate.
There can be no safety for the United States as long as people will read Bulwer and Dickens
instead of our "Yemassee," and our "Wigwams and Cabins."

But a national literature--will it come for any calling to it? Will it come the sooner for
the banishment of all other literature? If Mr Sims makes his escape into the woods, and sits
there naked and ignorant as a savage, will inspiration visit him? Will trying to uneducate
his mind, however successful he may be in the attempt,--and he has really carried his efforts
in this direction to a most heroic length--exactly enable him, or any other, to compete with
this dreaded influence of foreign literature? And if not, what other measures are to be taken
against this insidious enemy? We see none.

But no nation was ever hurt, as far as we have heard, by the light of genius shining on it
from another. And as to this national literature--though it will not obey the conjurations
of Mr Sims, we may be quite sure that, in due time, it will make its appearance. America can
no more begin a literature, no more start fresh from its woods and its prairies, than we here
in England could commence a literature, neither can it any more abstract itself from the influence
of its own institutions, the temper of its people, its history, its natural scenery, than we
here in England can manumit ourselves from the influence of the age in which we live. These
things determine themselves by their own laws. You may as well call out to the tides of the
ocean to flow this way or that, as think to control these great tidal movements of the human
mind. America cannot begin a literature, for it must look up to the same wellhead, or rather
to the same mountain streams as ourselves; neither do we suppose that it is seriously anxious
to disclaim all connexion with Bacon and Shakspeare, Milton and Locke; but it can, and will,
continue and carry on a literature of its own in a separate stream, branching from what we
must be permitted to call, for some time at least, the main current; and which, now diverging
from that, and now approaching to it, will at length wear for itself a deep and independent
channel.

But such slow and gradual progress of things by no means suits the impetuous patriotism of
Mr Sims. He is possessed evidently with the idea that some great explosion of national genius
would suddenly take place, if the people would but resolve upon it. It is an affair of public
opinion, like any other measure of policy; if but the universal suffrage could be brought to
bear upon it, the thing were done; it is from the electoral urn that the whole scroll of poets
and philosophers is to be drawn. "Let the nation," he solemnly proclaims, "but yield a day's
faith to its own genius, and that day will suffice for triumph!... Our development," he continues,
"depends upon our faith in what we are, and in our independence of foreign judgment." One would
think Mr Sims was fighting over again the war of independence. Or has some old speech of Mr
O'Connell's on the repeal of the union got shuffled amongst his papers? One expects the sentence
to close with the reiterated quotation,--

    "Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow!"

As the freedom Mr Sims is struggling for, is the release from superior genius, superior intelligence,
from philosophy and taste, we may surely congratulate him, at least, on his own personal attainment
of it. He has "struck the blow" for himself--whatever blow was necessary. He is free. Free,
and as barren, as the north wind. Free as the loose and blinding sand upon a gusty day--and
about as pleasing and as profitable. His "Views and Reviews" demonstrate in every page that
he has quite liberated himself from all those fetters and prejudices which, in Europe, go under
the name of truth and common sense.

Mrs or Miss Margaret Fuller--the titlepage does not enable us to determine which is the correct
designation, but, in the absence of proof to the contrary, we shall bestow, what we hope we
shall not offend a lady who has written upon "Woman in the Nineteenth Century" by still calling
the more honourable title--Mrs Margaret Fuller has touched upon the same theme in her papers
upon literature and art. She, too, sighs impatiently after a national literature. In an essay
devoted to the subject, she thus commences:--"It does not follow, because many books are written
by persons born in America, that there exists an American literature. Before such can exist,
an original idea must animate this nation, and fresh currents of life must call into life fresh
thoughts along its shores."--(Vol. ii. p. 122.)

An original idea!--and such as is to animate a whole nation! Certainly it sounds fit and congruous
that the new world, as their continent has been called, should give us a new truth; and yet,
as this new world was, in fact, peopled by inhabitants from the old, who have carried on life
much in the same way as it has been conducted in the ancient quarters of the globe, we fear
there is little more chance of the revelation of a great original idea in one hemisphere than
the other.

"We use the language of England," continues the lady, "and receive in torrents the influence
of her thought, yet it is, in many respects, uncongenial and injurious to our constitution.
What suits Great Britain, with her insular position, and consequent need to concentrate and
intensify her life," (we hope our readers understand--we cannot help them if they do not,)
"with her limited monarchy and spirit of trade, does not suit a mixed race, continually enriched
with new blood from other stocks the most unlike that of our first descent, with ample field
and verge enough to range in, and leave every impulse free, and abundant opportunity to develop
a genius, wide and full as our rivers, flowery, luxuriant, and impassioned as our vast prairies,
rooted in strength as the rocks on which the Puritan fathers landed."

If the future genius of America is to write "to order," as some appear to think, it would be
difficult to give him, a more perplexing programme than the lady here lays down. This rock
of the Puritans, standing amongst the luxuriant, flowery, and impassioned prairies, presents
a very heterogeneous combination. And whether one who had rooted himself upon such a rock would
altogether approve the "leaving every impulse free," may admit of a question.

But it is altogether a superfluous and futile anxiety which agitates these writers. A national
literature the Americans will assuredly have, if they have a literature at all. It cannot fail
to assume a certain national colour, although it would be impossible beforehand to fix and
determine it. No effort could prevent this. And how egregious a mistake to imagine that they
would hasten the advent of an American literature by discarding European models, and breaking
from the influence of European modes of thought! It would be a sure expedient for becoming
ignorant and barbarous. They cannot discard European models without an act of mental suicide;
and who sees not that it is only by embracing all, appropriating all, competing with all, that
the new and independent literature can be formed?

