It is a depressing business, this watching the burning of one's own ancestral house, the sinking
of one's proudest ship of all the fleet. It was altogether too much for Mr. Wintermuth.  For
nearly a week he was missing from the office, and no man at the Guardian knew of his whereabouts.
With the decline in volume of the company's business, the amount of routine work in the office
became unbearably, demoralizingly light.  The map clerks loafed and the bookkeepers joked with
one another.  Smith found time hanging heavy on his hands; but by Mr. Gunterson's orders he
stayed at his desk, although he could have done much, had he been permitted to go out among
his agents in the field, to stem the tide.

In the local department the atmosphere was charged with the contagious mourning of Mr. Cuyler,
who with funereal face sat contemplating the shrinkage of his business.  For with the loss
of his branch manager and his two best brokers, there was a deficit in his premium returns
which he could not overcome.  And certainly his melancholy countenance did not attract business;
it was a bold placer indeed who tried with quip and banter to secure Mr. Cuyler's acceptance
of a doubtful risk.  His world was awry, and all who ran might read it.  His brow became unpleasantly
corrugated, his smile a thing of the past.  If Mr. O'Connor had wanted evidence of the success
of his local campaign, he could have gained it from one look at Mr. Cuyler.

Above stairs, however, doom being still a matter of immediate prospect rather than a thing
accomplished, Mr. Gunterson still held forth, maintaining a sort of fictitious calm.  At times
he was even cheerful, and did his best to rally his dazed and despondent subordinates.  But
Bartels, seeing slip away accounts of agents he had audited for twenty years, was in a state
of stubborn, uncompromising rage which closely resembled the dementia of a dumb animal, and
Mr. Gunterson could do nothing with him.  Still the Vice-President struggled manfully to keep
his head above water, to seem cheerful and optimistic.  He came from his room one morning,
and spoke briskly to Smith.

"I notice that some of your clerks leave their hats around loose instead of hanging them up,"
he said.  "That should not be allowed in a well-conducted office.  Please give the necessary
orders."

Smith looked at him.  This was the closest Mr. Gunterson had come to real contact with the
vital problems before him.  A company in his charge was disintegrating under his hesitant and
futile hand--and he talked about clerks' hats which should properly be hung up!

"Yes, sir," said Smith, quietly.  "I'll speak about it."

The weeks followed one another with intolerable slowness.  March began, and dragged its weary
length along, and still the darkness increased in the Guardian's skies.  From Boston the Sternberg,
Bloom, and McCoy losses were beginning to come with the frequency and regularity of the shots
from a rapid-fire gun.  The East was thoroughly disorganized, and even the West, apparently
by some subtle psychological influence, was beginning to experience a sympathetic slump.  Philadelphia
still hung on, the local agents not having been able to agree on any plan of compensation for
separating its Conference sheep from their alien goat associates.

Mr. Wintermuth, silent and noncommittal, had returned to the office, but took little part in
the conduct of his company's underwriting affairs.  And in this manner March wore itself almost
out--and it seemed as though the Guardian's span of life were growing rapidly shorter.

